KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2017
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Things were going great except that last hole.  
TOM LEHMAN: I played very well.  I'm not going to dwell on one bad swing.  The fairways are quite tight and I just hit a 4-iron that I caught a bit fat.  That kind of thing happens every so often, I suppose, but I played 17 and every shot but that shot really well.  So I'm really pleased with the way I hit it, I'm pleased with the way I putted the ball.  I gave myself a lot of opportunities, I made some nice putts.  I feel like I kind of put myself in a good position, so I really feel good about the way I played.   
 Q.  Can you speak about the golf course and what you thought of the golf course?  
TOM LEHMAN: I like the course a lot.  It's a challenging course and I say that with a bit of an asterisk today.  I applaud the PGA of America for kind of being cautious with the setup, not knowing exactly what the weather was going to bring.  They shortened the course quite a bit and it turned out to be such a nice day the course played incredibly short.  I think it made for very scorable conditions.  From the tees we're going to probably play the rest of the week it really puts those fairway bunkers into play.  The fairway bunkers are in many cases not unlike a pot bunker in Scotland, big huge faces, big tall lips, you go in those bunkers you usually can't reach the green on many of them.  So they're very penal and they're very strategic and I think moving the tees back the rest of the week more than likely the course are going to go up.   
 Q.  Bernhard Langer near the lead again.  I'm sure you're used to that.  
TOM LEHMAN: Surprise, surprise.   
 Q.  Is it sort of like a decade or two ago when Tiger was always in contention, seeing Bernhard do what he does every week?  
TOM LEHMAN: Well, that's a tough comparison there.  Tiger, when he was at the height of his game he was maybe the best player in the history of the sport.  And I'm not saying that Bernhard isn't close to that, but Tiger was that.  So there's a little difference.  When Tiger got out there, you feel like he was definitely uncatchable.  Bernhard, I feel like Bernhard is catchable, but you got to play awfully, awfully well.  He's accomplished so much, but yet I think we all still feel that he can be beat.  It's just that you need to play really well to do it.   
 Q.  When you won this championship in 2010 and look to now you look like you're really in great shape physically.  Speak to what you've done.  
TOM LEHMAN: Yeah, I was telling Tim that I had surgery on my elbow last November and I missed three and a half months until the middle of February and I couldn't play at all.  I had a lot of time on my hands.  So I chose to spend the time trying to get into better shape.  Usually I have a window of about a month and a half during the off season to do that and this year I had three and a half.  It just, I think it's made a big difference.  I'm feeling stronger, I'm hitting the ball further.  My balance is better.  In order to swing hard you have to have good balance, you have to have a good core.  I feel like my game is a little bit better because I'm a little bit stronger.   
 Q.  Left elbow?  
TOM LEHMAN: Left elbow.   
 Q.  Talk about your grouping today.  Between you and Monty, there's three Senior PGA titles in there and then David Toms with a PGA title.  
TOM LEHMAN: Yeah, it was great pairing.  I really enjoyed both guys a great deal.  They're both great players, they're both really fun guys to play with.  Very pleasant.  But competitive.  Whenever you play with Monty, you know that you have to play well to beat him.  So it's a very competitive group, there's a very good natured and fun group, I feel like as a parings go, it was about as good as it gets.   
 Q.  Did David ask you how to win this thing?  
TOM LEHMAN: No, well he'll have no problem.  David Toms is has always been such a great player that beautiful rhythm, if he starts to make a few putts, he'll be very tough to beat.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT