U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 1997
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 LES UNGER:  Tom, the last time we had a chance to chat with
you, it was moments after a disappointing ending.  I have to ask
you how many times in the last 12 months you watched that tee
shot on 18 go about a yard and a half or two too long.

 TOM LEHMAN:  Well, I watched it a couple times, and winning the
British Open really softened the blow of losing the U.S. Open.
 So, you know, I think about last year and I think mostly positive
things.  I think that I feel like I played very well throughout
the course of the tournament especially on Saturday and Sunday,
and I feel like I can hold my head up high even though I lost.

 LES UNGER:  Thus far this season, it seems like you've been
in either a little slump or whatever. How would you describe your
play so far?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Yeah, I have not played my best.  I've been very
erratic.  My strong suit of my game is consistency and I've been
a lot more inconsistent than I've ever been over the past four
or five years.  I'm not sure exactly why it is.  Some days  I
putt poorly.  Sometimes I hit it crooked.  I just can't seem to
get quite everything put together for four straight days.  But
I'm getting closer.  I feel like last week was almost a really
good week.  I played really well at Memorial, but didn't putt
well.  So, I think my game is just around the corner.

 LES UNGER:  Congressional, what do you want to say about it?

 TOM LEHMAN:  It's a man-size golf course, definitely.  I'm sure
you've heard guys talking day after day here about how tough it
is.  I really believe that you can get this course.  I believe
that you can score on this course, but you're going to have to
hit it in the fairway.  The rough is so thick, and it is very
long, but it can be hit.

 LES UNGER:  Questions.


 Q.   Is part of the inconsistencies a fact that after 15 years
of grinding it out, you don't have to grind it out any more? 
You have to look down deep to make yourself stay the extra 15
minutes on the putting green or half an hour on the practice green?

 TOM LEHMAN:  No, I don't think -- I mean, that's motivation is
what you're talking about and I don't think motivation is it at
all.  I've worked very hard this year on my game, especially the
last two or three months.  And, you know, it just seems that I've
always been able to count on hitting a little draw under any circumstance.
 And, the last few months, I just -- there's days when I can draw
the ball and then there's days when I can't.  When you step on
a shot not, knowing if you can draw it like you normally do, it
makes it more difficult to play.  So I've been making a lot more
mistakes. That's the biggest thing, I've been making a lot more
bogeys than I have in the past and it's mostly from just an inconsistent
swing.

 Q.   How helpful would you say it would be to contend in a
major before winning one?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Well, it helps to be in the hunt.  It helps to feel
the pressure to deal with sleeping on the lead-ins on Saturday.
 Those things all mean a lot down the road.  And, I've been through
that a few times now in majors and I know what it's like.  I think
it's a very invaluable experience to have that kind of pressure.


 Q.   Do you think that the fact there's only two par 5s and
only one really reachable that will serve to make for a tighter
tournament and does it lessen  Tiger's length advantage?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Well, I still think those par 5s, he's going to
be able to reach, at least one of them.  But, you know, length
is always going to be an advantage no matter where you're playing,
if you can hit it straight, and I don't care who you are, you
know, if you can put it in the fairway on this golf course, you
can score.  If you're hitting longer irons, you can still score.
 So if you can knock the ball in the fairway, great, if longer
in the fairway, even better.  And with Tiger, he can hit his 3-wood
and 2-iron as far as most guys drivers, so he's, you know, he
can tone it down and play it a little more,, quote/unquote, safe
and still be in the fairway and still be pretty long.  So, it
pays to be long.  There's no getting around the fact that length
is important.

 Q.   Does Steve's victory last year prove that you don't have
to be the best player in the world and maybe playing the best
in the world at that time to win an Open, that you have to just
be the best that week?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Well, yes.  I mean, definitely, although Steve is
like I've always -- I've said all along, Steve was a heck of player
before he got hurt. People seem to have forgotten just how good
he was.  He  was on the verge, before he was injured, of being
a real world class player.  You know, U.S. Open, I mean, you know,
I was actually talking to Jack Nicklaus last week about the Open
and he was -- he said that he always wished he could come in where
he played just decently on Thursday and then improve every day.
 He didn't want to be peaking on Thursday.  He wanted to be peaking
on Sunday.  So, I think that's the way Steve was last year.  He
got off to a slow start; each day he got better.  And, when you
have that kind of a game going for you on a course as difficult
as the U.S. Open course, you have a really good chance to win.
 You don't need to be the best player in the field, but you need
to be on your game that week.  Because if you're just a little
bit off your game, you're going to be in for some real struggles.


 Q.   Colin Montgomerie yesterday mentioned that he felt like
the course backs Tiger up and brings him back to the rest of the
field.  When Davis Love was in here he mentioned he was going
to keep hitting a driver.  Do you think the course really does
not make Tiger the favorite in this situation and if not, you
know, who is the favorite?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Well, I think, you know, you  need to be honest.
 I think every player should -- expect to play well.  And, I think
every good player in this field expects that they can win.  But
when you think about favorites, you know, you've got to realize
that guys who are good can play any course.  A guy who is a great
player, it doesn't matter where you put him.  You can put him
on the moon, he can still play good golf.  Tiger is no different.
He's a great player and he's going to play this course just fine,
even rough and all.  I don't think that -- it's going to be tough
to win by 12 shots maybe.  But, you know, it's not like, well,
he can't handle this course because he can.  So, to say he's not
one of the favorites is ridiculous.

 Q.   He mentioned that it brings everybody else up to Tiger,
you know, brings everybody back to Tiger.

 TOM LEHMAN:  Well, I mean, it's hard to hit every drive in the
fairway no matter who you are.  I mean, you just probably can't
do it, and so when you miss the fairway, you're going to pay a
penalty.  So, in that respect, it is an equalizer.

 Q.   What do you think of the unusual nature of the finishing
holes here?  Not only is 18 a par 3 which is a little weird, but
you can actually see -- play on 18, coming down 17, if you want
to watch and see what  somebody is doing, you can.  How do you
think that's going to come into play on Sunday?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Well, it's a great finish.  The 17th hole is one
of the great par 4s in golf, and then 18 is a good par 3.  But,
you're right, you can see everything as you're coming down the
fairway.  And, if you are the kind of guy that likes to watch
what's going on around him and you're in the hunt and you see
a guy make a long one for a birdie on 18 while you're walking
down the fairway on 17, that's pretty good drama.  You know, I
think for the fans to be able to sit there and watch what's going
on two holes is exciting.

 Q.   Do you think it will be an advantage being paired with
Tiger the first two days?

 TOM LEHMAN:  I think it always helps to play with the players
who have really good chances to win. You know, I think it helps
to get you more focused.  It helps you to -- you know, sometimes
players can kind of like push each other, where if one guy starts
going pretty good, the other guys get dragged along.  Likewise,
if you're playing in a group where everyone is dogging it, the
other guys can get pulled down too.  So, momentum golf is all
momentum.  If a  group can get momentum, it's good for everybody.
 So, yes, it's good to play with Tiger.

 LES UNGER:  Tom, have you played with him before, and if so,
is the gallery behavior a factor?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Oh, it will be a factor.  Yeah, you know, I know
that a lot of people like Steve Jones, a lot of people like me,
but Tiger is the main event of that threesome, so it will be difficult
at times, I'm sure, to just, you know, not notice all the movement,
all the distractions that are probably going to be there.

 Q.   Tom, 279 at Oakland Hills, officially 1-under, is that
more like 9-under, same thing here?  I mean, these golf courses
that they just arbitrarily say this is a par 70 instead of a 72?

 TOM LEHMAN:  This -- yeah, that's -- I'm not really sure what
the equivalent would be.  All I know is that if you break par
out here, you're going to have done some really good golfing,
but like I said before, I know this course can be handled.

 Q.   Tom, a little bit ago, you mentioned about peaking at
the right time.  When you have to start off strongly the first
day with Tiger and Steve Jones, isn't that kind of intangible?
 How can you program yourself to peak at the right time? 

 TOM LEHMAN:  Well, golf is so much mental that I feel like if,
you know, the first couple of rounds are just -- you're jockeying
for position. You're just trying to keep yourself in the tournament,
and so no matter who you're playing with, you're basically playing
against the golf course.  And the nice thing about this tournament
is that it's -- there's so many pitfalls, so much rough and the
greens are so undulating, you can't be too concerned about who
you're playing or who all is around you.  So, in a sense, it's
easier to kind of focus on what you're doing and forget about
everything else.  So, if I don't play my best on Thursday or Friday,
I know that I can still manage my game and get around and score
and, you know, on Saturday and Sunday, you've got a chance.

 Q.   Do you feel like Tiger has been put on a pedestal too
early in his career?

 TOM LEHMAN:  I think that he has earned whatever he has received
to this point.  I think he's done something that no one else has
done, more than -- he's done a lot of things that no one else
has done. Everything that's come his way, every accolade he's
received, I believe he's earned.  I think I made a comment last
week that I  just hope that doesn't make golf fans and golf people
ever minimize the other players in the field.  You know, you look
at the NBA, and you've got Michael Jordan, who is head and shoulders
above anybody else. He's the biggest star of the league, but it's
a league full of stars.  And golf is the same way.  If Tiger Woods
is the biggest star out here, there are other stars too, other
great players, so let's make sure everybody gets their due.

 Q.   Tom, your record is probably the most consistent of anybody
in the last five years of all the Opens.  How does the rough on
this course compare with the rough, starting with Pebble Beach
and going, you know, give me comparison on this one compared to
the last five years.

 TOM LEHMAN:  Oh, boy.  This is probably as thick I think of any
of them that I've played in.  I'm trying to remember.  Pebble
Beach, I drove the ball so well, I was rarely in the rough.  Oakmont,
I remember being in some pretty thick hay and having to pitch
it out a lot, so I guess it was similar to that course.  Baltusrol,
I was so hot, I can't remember a thing.  I don't know.  I don't
recall.  But, no, this rough is very punishing. Although there
are some spots that it's a little whisper.  It's thick in spots
and thinner in spots, and you can get lucky.

 Q.   How long did you agonize over the 72nd hole of last year's
Open?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Not that long.  I was very disappointed initially
when I finished playing, but, you know, I think by the time I
got home and had a chance to think about it all and I realized
that, you know, I did play very well, and I kind of felt like,
you know, the bounces didn't really go my way.  And some days
they do, some days they don't.  It's one of those days where they
didn't, and that cost me the U.S. Open.  And, you know, I can
live with that.  It left me feeling -- with a really positive
attitude, real positive frame of mind, that I'm good enough to
win.  I easily could have won.  I played well enough to win, but
I didn't.  One of these times, I am going to win, so a couple
days and I was over it.

 Q.   Tom, would you talk about the 6th hole here.

 TOM LEHMAN:  Well, I'm going to treat it like a par 5, personally.
 You know, it's -- No. 6 is one of those holes that can completely
take you out of the tournament if you try to get too much out
of it.  And  so I'm going to approach it like a par 5, hit a good
drive and, you know, hit a middle iron to the green, I'll do it.
 If I hit a so-so drive and I've got 220, I'm just going to lay
it up.  I'm not going to let that hole beat me and take me out
of the tournament, because you make a couple 5s and a couple 4s,
you're probably going to be out of the game.

 Q.   Tom, how have you played during your practice rounds,
and is there any hole which has really given you any trouble,
and any players besides yourself that you think this course suits
their game?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Let me see.  Any holes give me trouble?  I think
starting with No. 1, finishing at 18.  They're all pretty tough.
 No. 6, I thought No. 6 is easily the most difficult hole out
there.  And, to me, that's an uncomfortable-feeling hole.  I can't
really tell you why, other than the fact that I know that it has
my respect.  But my practice rounds have gone pretty well.  I've
hit a lot of good shots.  I feel like my game is just on the brink.
 Like I say, it's been inconsistent, but it's not far away, and
I've had a good practice.

 Q.   Tom, before The Masters, you said that Tiger  has a very
legitimate chance to win because he's not going to be afraid going
down Sunday if it's close. Obviously, it wasn't.  Do you think
the mind-set of the players has changed going into this major
about him and about their own games, and does the mind-set change
in regard to that or does the mind-set change because one is the
Masters and one is the Open?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Well, I think the thing about all, you know, really
great players is they don't beat themselves.  I think what people
have seen with all the great players - Tiger Woods included -
is, you know, Tiger hasn't beaten himself.  It seems when he gets
a chance to win, he may not win, but he doesn't beat himself.
 Someone else wins.  Case and point, Mark O'Meara at Pebble Beach,
and I think that maybe has caused people to look at it and say,
you know, when I get a chance, you know, maybe I need to find
a way to not beat myself.

 Q.   Colonial, you don't think he beat himself?

 TOM LEHMAN:  You know, I didn't watch it. But I know -- there's
times like, you know, I heard he hit a shot over the green on
17 onto the rough to, the Bermuda rough, hit a flyer over the
green.  Hitting shots out of Bermuda rough is like Russian Roulette.
You don't know quite what you're going to get. 

 LES UNGER:  Any more?

 TOM LEHMAN:  Thank you.

 End of FastScripts.....         

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT