THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2019
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's got to be great to come back where you won The Open, good form with a pair of 70s.  What do you take away from the first two rounds?  
TOM LEHMAN: A lot of the things I was doing in '96 in terms of same clubs off the tee, it was really helpful to actually watch the final round on YouTube the other night with my kids and reminded me of how I kind of attacked this course.   
Really, playing it the exact same way.  Exactly the same clubs off the tees, the same targets.  Hitting it reasonably solid.  Left a few shots out there, which is frustrating, but overall, I'm happy.   
 Q.  It was a really steady round, two steady rounds, you finished late and it was a quick turnaround this morning.  How did that play out?  
TOM LEHMAN: Yesterday was kind of a strange day.  Kind of caught the breeze switching on the ninth hole yesterday, so we went out against the wind and came back in against the wind and it was pretty strong for a while.   
I was really pleased yesterday to really manage to come back home and shoot a par score.  I thought it was a pretty good round yesterday.   
Today, the quick turnaround, yes, but I do like the late and the morning shift better.  I like getting out early.  It was a beautiful morning, and I think the course was really there for the taking.  70 was good, but a little more disappointing.   
 Q.  Looks like you'll be five back going into the weekend.  Is this a golf course you can challenge and make up ground?  
TOM LEHMAN: You beat this course by not being stupid.  You beat this course by playing smart golf.  I've always found that it's a tougher driving course than it is an iron shot, approach course.  If you can put the ball in play off the tee, I think it gives you some room around the greens most of the time, if you have a good game plan and know where the bunkers are, there's usually a place where you can miss it around the greens where you have really a stress-free -- usually a putt from off the fringe.   
So the driving is the key, and I think the slowness of the greens is what's throwing everybody off.  They are a little bit inconsistent.  Some are super slow.  Some are kind just of slow.  Some are just slow.  And then a couple here and there are semi-quick, but they are all a little bit different pace, and I think you see a lot of guys leaving putts short.   
 Q.  What's it like being back here?  You must be getting plenty of support out there.  
TOM LEHMAN: Well, it's such a wonderful place.  I love the golf course.  I love that walk up 18.  I think the view from the tee and the fairway looking at the green with the clubhouse in the background is one of the great finishing shots in the world.  I think there's something uniquely special about it.  I love it.   
I have a lot of memories of being here, obviously, and as long as I keep on putting the ball in the fairway like I've been doing the last two days, I'll continue to have some good memories.   
 Q.  I heard you say you've been studying what you did in '96 to help you?  
TOM LEHMAN: Yeah, I watched the replay, and it kind of reminded me just how conservatively I played this course off the tee.  Very few drivers.  There's a couple that you have to hit, but mostly it's just hitting that 2-iron, that driving iron around the course and putting it in the fairway.  I've only hit one 3-wood even over the course of two days.   
It's all about position off the tee, staying out of the bunkers, and then most often, getting the ball into the green.  If you get the ball into the green, you take a lot of the stuff out in the front out of play and the course becomes more scorable.   
 Q.  You brought the family to show them what happened in '96?  Trip down memory lane or everyone?  
TOM LEHMAN: And last week, too.  Last week was my last Open, so they were all there for that.  They all left today.  They have things they have to get home to, but it was nice for them all to be here because they weren't here in '96.  Spent some time in the clubhouse looking at the pictures on the wall.  I think they have enjoyed walking these fairways that have always meant so much to our family.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT