SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 21, 2015
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  A seventh trip for you to a Senior PGA Championship.  Grand total.  TOM LEHMAN: Yeah, I guess it could be.   Q.  And just evaluate the location and where you are this year for you and what this kind of golf course does to you, in any conditions, let alone today.  TOM LEHMAN: Well, yeah, it's an incredibly beautiful place here.  Wonderful people.  I think it's an amazing location to have this tournament.  Big crowd today, even though the weather was bad.  It's a big deal for this part of southern Indiana. And the golf course is really suited to guys who have a complete game.  There's no -- boy, there is no way to get around having to drive it well and be accurate with your irons and putt well.  You just have to do it all well or it's going to punish you.  I think it's going to produce a great champion.   Q.  You had a nice moment after the green where you ran one in.  What about holding -- did that hold your round together for you, really?  TOM LEHMAN: I played really poorly today.  Although the last I started playing better.  But the first 13 holes or better, I just played awful.  And I made a lot of really good putts.  I made a you couple putts, like that one there on 16. So 73 is never going to hurt you out here.  So, it kind of keeps you in the game.  Hopefully, I start to hit it a little bit better and give myself a few more chances, but it's the kind of course though where I always kind of feel like Pete Dye, what he does more than anything is he challenges you mentally.  He forces you to be patient.  Or else he's going to get you. There's so many pins out here where if you get aggressive and/or you're upset or frustrated and impatient and you want to go for something, you end up going from bad to worse.  So it's a true patient person's course.   Q.  You have lot of experience on Pete Dye golf courses.  TOM LEHMAN: Yeah, and I really like them.  I love his strategy, I love the way he forces you to think and to play.  You have to challenge hazards to get the right angle and there's places to miss where you just simply have no chance to get it up-and-down.  And I think learning all that, knowing it, and then getting a game plan to deal with it is everything.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT