U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2014
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Can you just talk about your day?  It seemed like you had opportunities.  How would you describe your day?TOM LEHMAN: You know, I was unbelievably pleased with the way I played today.  I feel like I drove the ball exceptionally well, hit a lot of good iron shots, gave myself a lot of opportunities. Unhappy with the way that I putted. Actually, the first two days, very, very average putting.  So disappointed to not have a better score on the board right now.Q. First looks at this course, you came in early to look at it.  Now you have played it a couple of days.  What do you think?  As hard or harder than you thought?TOM LEHMAN: Well, just a lot of demanding shots.  There's so many -- you know, I think we talked about a week ago, Pete Dye, there are ways to play the course and you tend to start figuring out what those things might be, where can you miss. I know I made one mistake today, actually the first two days, knowing that I hit a ball where I knew that I couldn't hit it. That's really kind of the secret.  If you can give yourself a way to survive, there is usually enough opportunities to make a birdie or two.Q. The number didn't get any lower, 6-under is what Monty was to begin with.  Where do you think that might be at the end of the tournament?  What about your chances with that being the number now?TOM LEHMAN: You know what?  I've got to putt better.  I can tell you that right now.  As far as what the number might be, Monty -- he just spoke to you guys.  I'm sure he probably told you.  He really gutted it out today.  He played, you know, well below Monty standards early in the round, and then really turned it around and played great golf the last 10 or 12 holes. I was very impressed with the way that he kind of survived his start because he drove the ball very poorly for himself.  He was struggling just to make pars and managed to get even par. So I gave him a lot of credit.  So going forward, if he plays anywhere near like he played yesterday and the back nine today he's going to be pretty tough to beat.  This is a driver's paradise.  You drive the ball in the fairway and you make a few putts, you're probably going to do okay.Q. Did the course seem a lot harder today?TOM LEHMAN: You know, I thought it played very difficult early yesterday morning.  And then the last nine holes and today kind of felt about the same.  You know, the wind was a little bit different, but, you know, the wind speed was close to the same.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT