U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2013
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Tom Lehman, 3 under par, 67.   
TOM LEHMAN:   It was a pretty basic chip, with kind of a gnarly little lie.   Grain going against the ball.   It's easy to kind of not catch it clean, but I did, and it was the right speed.   So like I told Roger, I didn't make any putts, but I did make one chip.   That felt good.  
   
 Q.   You were playing better than you were scoring in the front nine.   
TOM LEHMAN:   I played fairly well all day.   You're right, I feel like the back nine, I didn't play as well.   Left knee and left hip got a little sore out there up and down the hills.   My swing kind of reflected that.   I scored better in the back so maybe that's the secret.   
This course needs a lot of focus, needs a lot of concentration.   There's lot of difficult shots.   You have to be always thinking on every one of them.   So it was a good day mentally for me.   I felt like I used my head pretty well.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you know it pretty well by now, know what you need to know?   
TOM LEHMAN:   Yeah, I spent quite a bit of time here about three or four weeks ago.   Of course, the practice rounds.   But competition always brings out a few little wrinkles you're not expecting.   But there was no surprises today.   So I feel good about that.  
   
 Q.   Surprised to see seven people tied atop the leaderboard right now?   
TOM LEHMAN:   I'm not surprised.   First round only, 156 guys teeing it up.   I'm not surprised by that.   It's a tough course.   It's hard to get real low out there, and it's the first day.   So I'm pretty pleased to be one of them.   I'm looking forward to the next three days.  
   
 Q.   Tom, how would you classify or characterize the green speed?   
TOM LEHMAN:   Inconsistent.   The first 10, 11, 12 holes, they were kind of softer and kind of velvety, looked like they'd been watered a lot.   The last seven or six holes, looked like they forgot about it, and they were much firmer.   They were quicker and getting a little choppy.   So I'm glad that we finished.  
   
 Q.   The physical exertion part of it, I mean, you were expecting that, but it seemed like a lot of guys have been talking about that.   
TOM LEHMAN:   It's not the kind of course to me that physically makes you I'm just so tired I can't even put one foot in front of the other.   But it's the kind of course where, if you have issues with ankles, feet, hips, knees, it wears it out a little bit.   
And I think that's the human condition.   A lot of guys, if you've got a problem with your back or if you've got a problem with your big toe, it's a tough course to manipulate when you're hurting.  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
TOM LEHMAN:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT