SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2010
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   TOM LEHMAN: I played really well today actually with the wind the way it was. And I hit a good shot on 17, I hit a nice shot, I thought maybe even a little too far. I thought maybe the ball would release and go too far and it went in the bunker short. Which surprised me. 
 And then a lot of really soft heavy sand in the bunker, it was very unlike any other bunkers that I played out of this week and I just couldn't get the ball up in the air. So 6 is a 6, but the finish was great and I'm happy with that.

 Q. Describe the momentum of that?
 TOM LEHMAN: Yeah, it was a great way to finish. I wasn't very pleased, obviously. The 18th hole was playing tough today, so you didn't want to finish with a bogey there. And making a birdie was a bonus, the momentum and for making you feel better. It was a nice finish. 

 Q. Tom looked like he was grinding the last few holes there?
 TOM LEHMAN: Yeah, it was fun. Tom Kite is almost 61 years old and he was just, to me it's amazing how well he plays, how far he still hits it. He didn't have his best day today, but he's just a great competitor. And of course Couples is Couples. He's the top player out here, probably. And but still, being with him was, when you're playing with Freddie, you know you're doing something right. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEHMAN: It's a tough, putting in the wind is not easy. It really isn't. And he had a pretty easy first putt. He knocked it by and now he's coming down hill and the wind was going and then he had a longer putt on the second one. If you're going to 4-putt, that's how you do it. You knock it by on an uphill putt. 
 But he didn't play his best today, I'm sure he's probably not as happy as he would like to be. But he's still obviously very much in the hunt.

 Q. What's your call tonight?
 TOM LEHMAN: My call for the Suns/Lakers? I'm going for the Suns. In fact I'm picking the Suns to win tonight and to win game seven too.

 Q. You are like Steve Nash. 
 TOM LEHMAN: They just have a bunch of guys with a lot of heart and a lot of desire and they play really hard and I think they want it more than the Lakers do. So I think they're going to win two.

 Q. You go off in the last group tomorrow. Talk about the thoughts of winning this championship. 
 TOM LEHMAN: Well of course winning, of course I would love to win. And I feel like I have a great chance to win. But I got to play a good round of golf though. And that's the bottom line. If I play a good round of golf tomorrow then it's going to take somebody that has to play a great round of golf. So I can do what I can do and I feel pretty good that I can accomplish that. 

 Q. How many times did the wind change on you today?
 TOM LEHMAN: Well just one major shift. It went from helping on the 8th hole to kind of hurting from the left on the 9th hole and then straight down wind on 10. So I wouldn't say it was a 180, but it was pretty close. I'm not sure if the course played easier or tougher with that. It played differently. Certainly didn't -- it was still playable. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEHMAN: I know him very well. Great guy, first of all. Just a wonderful person. And a really solid game. He's always been a really good putter and usually what happens as guys get older is they kind of lose something in their game and then they kind of rediscover it when they get back out here, I think. 
 I think he's getting -- I always loved to watch him putt. He just has this beautiful stroke and just rolls the ball tremendously.

 Q. It kind of seems like you're just like your Suns, they have both got a lot of heart and they just find a way to win. 
 TOM LEHMAN: Well, you know, just, again, I don't have a traditional swing, I don't have a picture perfect swing, I don't do anything, I would say, great, great. But I do a lot of things very well. And I tend to, if I win, I kind of beat you with consistency. 
 And Jay Don, he's been a grinder for a long time too. He's had his battles and I'm sure he would love to win and we would all love to win. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT