SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2010
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Get some thoughts on your round today. 
 TOM LEHMAN: Well, I played really well. 

 Q. Pretty tough conditions?
 TOM LEHMAN: Yeah, it was gusty. I drove it extremely well. I hit it in the middle of the club face all day long. And hitting it solid makes a big difference when the wind's blowing. 
 So I did that and I just did a lot of things right today. I'm very happy with 4-under.

 Q. You had it going late, obviously, that eagle, birdie or eagle, birdie, birdie. Did you have a sense that that was coming, particularly with the back to back par-5s?
 TOM LEHMAN: You could take advantage of those if you hit good drives, and I did. You don't, you're not going to think you're going to make birdie and an eagle, but I birdied the par-3 too right after that. So it was a nice stretch of holes. 
 But no, I was just trying to plug away and just kind of hit one shot after the next and take what I would get. And some days you get good stuff, some days you don't get good stuff. And today I got a lot of good things.

 Q. On 16 what club did you hit in?
 TOM LEHMAN: 5-iron.

 Q. What distance did you have?
 TOM LEHMAN: 228 or something like that.

 Q. You hit it to what?
 TOM LEHMAN: About three inches. It almost went in. 

 Q. How about on 17, what did you hit there?
 TOM LEHMAN: 8-iron. Just maybe 18 feet, just right of the hole. 
 And the last hole I hit a pretty good drive, I just kind of drew it a hair and it kicked into the bunker and was right up, I mean flush up against the lip. So I had to just splash a sand wedge out and kind of -- which to me it was unfortunate. I mean, those bunkers are pretty big and it's usually a pretty simple spot no matter where you hit it in there, but especially just hitting it up right against the lip like I did. So it was a bad break, but I probably had a few good ones out there too.

 Q. Talk for a second about the knee. 
 TOM LEHMAN: It is my right knee and it's been bothering me all year. It's a hard course to walk, up and down, so it's just been bothering me and so it's nothing.

 Q. I would imagine finishing 32 on the back nine here must give you great confidence going into tomorrow. 
 TOM LEHMAN: I'm swinging pretty well. And driving it well. That's a big part of the game here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT