FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 24, 2007
Jee Young Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Thanks for coming in, 4-under par today, 13-under, runner-up.  Tell us about your day. 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I had a good day today.  It was a great day to play.  But it's just that there was a little bit of pressure on me to win the tournament and then there were a lot of gallery.  So everything worked out, shots were great, but there just was not enough birdies. 

 Q.  Do you feel like she (Stacy Prammanasudh) ever gave you any chances or openings to catch her?  Did you feel there was a spot there where you might be able to track her down? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Yeah, I think there were a lot of chances for me to catch up, but I missed that chance.  There were a lot of chances for me to make more birdies but I just couldn't do it.  So I guess she give me a lot of chances. 

 Q.  Where were you closest to making the birdies?  Which ones bother you the most? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  17th hole, I hit it too far on the drive.  The yardage left, 55 yards was left and that is a yardage that I really don't like and am not comfortable with.  It was about four or five steps downhill and I just didn't make it. 

 Q.  Is there something positive that you can take from this for the rest of the year? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I believe that I started the season great, and I'm pretty sure that I'll have a second win if I play well like I did this week.  Last year I finished runner-up to Seon Hwa Lee, who ended up winning the Rookie of the Year last year, and then had a win later on in the season.  I'm confident that I'll be able to win throughout the year and it will help me. 

 Q.  What did you think was the best thing about Stacy's game today, and also what's going through your head when she birdied the first two holes so easily? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I think that Stacy's game was very consistent by hitting shots and then putting and all that. 
 Her putting was really good, and when she made birdie on her first two holes, I also made a birdie on the second hole and there was not much gap.  So I figured there was enough time for me to catch up and, you know, I didn't really worry about that. 

 Q.  What did you do in the off-season to improve the accuracy so much with your driver? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  There is not much that I was focusing on.  I tried to hit it straight but there was nothing that I did especially to practice, but I practiced a lot of drivers during the off-season.  And I hit it hard and then somehow if I hit it hard, it kind of got straighter and straighter and it was kind of helping me out.  So that's how it went. 

 Q.  Can we go through your birdies? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  5, 161, 7-iron, 27 feet, two putts. 
 12, 6-iron, 21 feet. 
 13, driver, 208 yards, rescue, 27 feet, two putts, birdie. 

 Q.  Any other good birdie chances besides 17? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  No. 3.  123 yards, 9-iron, 21 feet. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT