KAPALUA LPGA CLASSIC
October 18, 2008
Jee Young Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Shall we do your scorecard, birdie on 9?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE: I hit driver and 35 yards, and 60-degree, and to 30 feet.   
 15, I hit 3-wood tee shot and 6-iron.   
 Bogey on 16. I hit 3-wood and 6-iron and 3-putt.   
 Birdie on 18. I hit driver and rescue, 25 yards, 60-degrees.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Jee Young, thank you for coming in. If you would, just talk about your round today and how you played.   
 JEE YOUNG LEE: I played okay today. It was so windy out there. So I stayed focused and I tried to stay focused and I was calm.   
  
  Q. What will be your mind-set tomorrow? How will you approach tomorrow can so many people so close on the leaderboard?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE: I was in a similar situation at the McDonald's LPGA Championship. So this time, I don't want to put too much pressure on myself. I just want to go out there and be comfortable and play my game and not worry about having to win the tournament.   
  
  Q. Do you consider yourself a good wind player?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE: In 2005, I won a tournament called the Nine Bridges classic in Korea, and that was in very, very windy conditions. So, yeah, I would consider myself okay.   
  
  Q. How do you find the greens? Are you comfortable with the greens?  
 JEE YOUNG LEE: They were really fast and like I have to read the break, it's very difficult and it's a little bit fast, very difficult.   
  
  Q. Was there any particular point along the course that you felt was maybe a turning point for you or any hole that pushed up there into the top?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE: To answer your question, I don't think there was a particular turning point in the round today. From the very first hole, I was going par, par, par.   
 And at No. 9, I scored my first birdie, and even after that, the reason I couldn't say it was a turning point is because after that, I went par, par, par, again. Even after that when I wasn't able to get the ball on the green, I did pretty well on my chip shots and was able to save pars.   
  
  Q. I thought your best save was No. 6 where you hit into the bunker and then came out and then went over the green and made a very good chip shot coming back and saved par there. I thought that may have been your it turning point.   
 JEE YOUNG LEE: I think so. (Laughter).  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Jee Young, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT