MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 7, 2008
Jee Young Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you all for joining us. Jee Young Lee, I got your scorecard from your caddie as well so we'll have that in the transcript. Phenomenal round. You had a double bogey on 5 but you're still 7-under par today and in the lead. How do you feel?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE: I play well today. But I hit some fair ball on number 5 and some hole. But good on driver and good made putting. So good I made the scores.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: We'll take questions for her.  
  
  Q. When you see some the names on the leader board like Lorena Ochoa and Annika Sorenstam and you see your name at the top of the leader board, what do you think?  
 JEE YOUNG LEE: (From translation) Actually I wasn't looking at the leader board in the first place. But as I was going up and saw my name up there I got more confident and it was more easier for me to concentrate and I hope I can stay at the leader board tomorrow as well.  
  
  Q. She's done very, very well here at Bulle Rock, is there anything about the golf course that she likes -- especially likes?  
 JEE YOUNG LEE: (From translation) I like the greens here particularly. It's easier for me to read the lies.   
 Having different greens from Bermuda greens I feel more comfortable reading the greens here.  
  
  Q. What was it like playing in the intense heat today? Did that affect her at all?  
 JEE YOUNG LEE: I like hot weather so you are more comfortable than cold.  
  
  Q. You won an LPGA event, one of your first events in 2005. Do you feel you're ready to win a Major Championship?  
 JEE YOUNG LEE: (From translation) I've been waiting to win the tournament ever since I came to the United States. And to win the Major tournament here would be really exciting for me. And I'm really looking forward to winning this tournament.  
  
  Q. You are near the top in making eagles on the Tour. This was your sixth today of the season. What is it about -- I mean do you like to fire at the flags, are you a long hitter off the tee? Can you talk about, you know, making eagles going forward? Do you like to play aggressively?  
 JEE YOUNG LEE: (From translation) As everybody knows I'm a long hitter. And long driver shots makes me easier to have eagles.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk us through the double bogey so we know what happened on the double bogey?  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: You had a driver into the rough. You took a 7-iron to lay up. You were about 65 yards out then you had to chip. You chipped it to 12 feet and a two putt from 12 feet.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any other questions? Okay. Thank you very much Jee Young Lee. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT