MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 13, 2007
Jee Young Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Jee Young Lee, first of all congratulations, you played awesome today.  Three playoff holes against Suzann Pettersen, can you just tell us quickly how you feel you played today?  I know you're probably a little down right now, but just how you feel you played in today's final round.   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Even from yesterday, my shots were not as good as yesterday, so I had a few dangerous moments.  But I took the risks and make a couple birdies.   
 I'm disappointed that I shot over par today.   
  
  Q.  They were saying on television that it looked like you rushed your par putt on the third playoff hole.  Did you feel like you played that shot faster than you should have?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I just wanted to putt it and not have to wait.   
  
  Q.  Were you already thinking about going back to the 18th tee?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Not really.   
  
  Q.  What were you thinking as you walked up to the green on the third playoff hole and saw how close you were with Suzann Pettersen on the fringe; what went through your mind?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Basically unless Pettersen makes the putt, I think I have a chance to win and then I'll do my best.  That's what I thought at the time.   
  
  Q.  On the second playoff hole when you saw how close Pettersen was and putting for birdie, did you think the playoff was over at that point?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I intentionally didn't see Pettersen putt.   
  
  Q.  On the TV screen, it flashed that it was your first playoff.  Can you talk about the pressure about being in a playoff?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  It felt like the Match Play from last year.  At first in the playoff I was kind of nervous but after that in the playoff, I was okay.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the bunker shot at 15 from behind the green and how important that was to you staying in the hunt for victory?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I was not really thinking about the score itself.   
 What I was thinking about, I have a tendency to compete whenever I'm under pressure, especially bunker shots.  So I tried to not think about anything, just picking up the spot where my ball was going to land.  That's all that I did.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel like you played well enough to win, or do you feel like you let one get away?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Frankly speaking, I think I played well enough, but I think I gave it away.   
  
  Q.  How close were you on the putt for birdie on the final playoff hole, the one that would have been for a birdie -- or the one after that?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Two feet, almost two feet.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about playing the same hole over and over and over again, and whether or not you liked that or whether you found that uncomfortable?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I felt more and more comfortable, especially the second shot, the approach shot.   
 The first two playoff holes, I tried to line up myself a little bit to the right side, but the last one, I was confident enough to hit right at the flag.   
  
  Q.  Is this as disappointed as you have been as a professional, today's result, the way it played out, is this the most disappointing, frustrating result for you?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Yes, it is.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Can we quickly go through your scorecard?  Birdie on the second hole.  Do you remember what you hit?   
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  5-iron, 18 feet.   
 8, rescue, 9-iron from 128 uphill.   
 9, 56-degree wedge to 12 feet, from 90 yards.   
 14, driver, right side, 9-iron, chip shot.   
 15, driver, 4-iron in the bunker, sand wedge to a foot.   
 First playoff hole, 9-iron; second play after hole, 8-iron; and third playoff hole, 7-iron.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Thank you so much for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT