MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 12, 2007
Jee Young Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Let's go over your scorecard.  No. 1, birdie. 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Driver, 161, and 7-iron, five steps. 
 No. 2, 5-iron, three step. 
 6, I hit driver, 85 meters, to five meters. 
 8, hit 3-wood and 128 yards, pitching wedge, four steps. 
 No. 10, driver and 9, 135 yards, like an inch. 
 11, I hit drive, 80 yards, 60-degree wedge, two steps. 
 14, driver, 90 yards, 56-degree wedge, three steps. 
 15, driver and 5-iron, 185 yards.  5-iron over the green, hit chip shot, two steps. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  How far was your chip? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  20 yards. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Your 63, 8-under, ties the tournament record and that's also your career best.  So how do you feel right now? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Today the driver went in all the fairways, so it was very easy for me.  Shots were near the pin, so that helped me, as well.  So I felt very good around 14, so I think that helped me a lot.  So that is the main thing. 

 Q.  You donated $10,000 last year to LPGA USA, can you talk about your decision to do that, please? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I like children and I know children are the future.  That's what helped me become a successful golfer so that's why I decided to go ahead and donate because I love children. 

 Q.  What did your one victory do for you mentally as a golfer?  Do you feel more prepared now to win than you did before? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I'm very thankful to join the LPGA, but also, I'm very appreciative of the KLPGA, the Korean Ladies Golf Association, so I'm really thankful about that. 
 Getting the victory, that came on the KLPGA. 

 Q.  Do you feel comfortable being in the lead going into the last day knowing everybody is chasing you? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I feel confident about the year.  I already had a victory so I have confidence of winning again. 

 Q.  Do you watch the scoreboard during the round? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  From the beginning I didn't watch the scoreboard, but at the end, I was really curious who was winning. 

 Q.  Were you surprised to see that it was you? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I wasn't really shocked or surprised or anything.  I was kind of following and keeping score, so I was pretty calm about it. 

 Q.  Were you aware what the course record was, being that Sarah  Lee tied it on Thursday, but did you know pretty soon that you had tied it? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I didn't know. 

 Q.  Do you have much history playing with or against Sarah  Lee, and if so, what do you think of Sarah as a player? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I know Sarah  Lee really well personally, and I know Sarah  Lee is a good player and I'm very curious about tomorrow, what the outcome is. 

 Q.  Did you play a lot of golf together as juniors or how do you know her so well? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  There's a group, JMG, and I guess there's some players, Sae-Hee Son, Sun Young Yoo, Meena Lee, Se Ri Pak.  I played with them and I got to know them I guess after play and socializing. 

 Q.  You said the way you drove the ball today was key for you.  Does that put you in a good frame of mind?  
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I guess I was a little tense over shots, so I pay more attention, so I feel that's why I was pretty successful today. 

 Q.  The JMG that you referred to a minute ago, are those games of golf played against those women here in the United States or back in Korea?  Where do they get together to play this golf and socialize? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Not necessarily, just competing in Korea.  We kind of compete against each other and it boosts us up and we're also collecting money so in the future we want to contribute to the unfortunate neighborhoods, those people who need help, so that's what we're planning. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  So that's based on how you do in your tournaments here, or just when you're in Florida that's how you decide whoever does the best, you raise the money and that's where the money all goes; is that right? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I think these ladies are living in Florida, six group of us, six people and basically we raise funds -- we're not competing with another group or anything.  For instance, if we don't do so well, we have to pitch in some money, that's the thing, so it's nothing to do with competition or our side.  So basically a social group and it boosts us up, a good cause as well as boosting up our spirit. 

 Q.  Given that you were only 3-under at the start of today and was eight, nine shots behind the leader, whatever it was, was there any reason to assume that a round of this quality was coming?  Did you sense that such a terrific round was coming when you went to the first tee today? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  Well, actually, I was saying this morning that I really didn't feel in good condition but I decided to go ahead and do the best I can and that led me to the result. 

 Q.  You said not the greatest condition; were you not feeling well? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I was just a little tired, not that I had an ill feeling or anything. 

 Q.  I understand that you didn't begin playing golf until you were 13.  Before that, did you compete in other sports, and if so, which? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  I was swimming as a hobby, nothing like competing with other people or anything. 

 Q.  Did you fall in love with golf immediately after you first took it up? 
 JEE YOUNG LEE:  No.  I just happened to be hitting the ball and I just fell in love, I guess I just liked hitting the ball and I didn't realize that it brought that opportunity. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Congratulations on a great round. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT