UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2019
Mark Stoops
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK STOOPS: They both got called back with penalties. And the one penalty early on, I needed an explanation. I don't know. I mean, so it's just very frustrating. There was some holds later that were no-brainers, they were holding. But the one early on Logan, I need an explanation. And then -- because it happens to us the whole game. But Lynn made some incredible runs on designed runs. Sure he made some mistakes. That kind of defense is going to pose a problem for anybody that's back there playing quarterback. Again, if you would say to, if I had asked all of you, prior to the game, who would have more total yards at the quarterback position, I think we would take that. So Lynn did some really good things. Obviously they make it difficult there. They're very good defensively, very big and disruptive and did a nice job. But I am proud of Lynn and the things he did. But this week we got to, again, look at the best options, all options to help us move the football and hopefully Sawyer will be back to near a hundred percent.
Q. When you talk about you're facing elite players, how do you create that momentum of facing a guy like Jake Fromm and then facing a guy like Bryant who is obviously well recognized like Fromm.
TOM HERMAN: You know, we're used to it as far as the league. It's brutal each year. It's going to be difficult, it is what it is, our guys understand that. So it's just a new challenge, it's the challenge of the week and Kelly's had a really good year and can make all the throws, he can certainly hurt you with the run game. They have some designed cue run games as well that puts a lot of pressure on you with as well as they throw the ball and how fast is their receivers are.
Q. What was Jordan doing to make it particularly tough? You were having success moving the ball but it seemed to stall a little bit in the red zone.
TOM HERMAN: Yeah, well, the penalty was one, the dropped touchdown was another. So that's two of them right there. And you're not going to get a lot of opportunities. But they tightened it down. They did a nice job with the caging in some of our perimeter run game and forcing us to hit it up inside with some even with the cue with Lynn and that's where they're big and strong and physical. So you can see we got some good, we got some yards on the perimeter, but it wasn't big explosive plays. It was five, six, and they were forcing us to take some of that read inside. And they're pretty physical in there.
Q. Every game's important but do you look at this one with sort of a weird situation with the second bye week, to just to go in here and you have fans and have everybody kind of on board going into this one and then have a good outcome to kind of take into that second bye week?
TOM HERMAN: Well, yeah, I mean it's just an important game. We're back home, excited to be back home. We need a great crowd, hopefully we'll have a decent day. Our luck last Saturday it was absolutely beautiful in Lexington. Go to Georgia and it's 40 and raining and wind blowing sideways. So hopefully we'll get a good day, get a great crowd. But, no it's an important game, it is important to get this victory. It's the next game. And the bye week is what it is. I'll tell you after game if we go play really well and I wish we were ready to go play the next week will. It's just hard to tell. But we have some guys banged up, even our linebackers are starting to get banged up, Kash is beat up, getting some injuries mount on him a little bit. Our outside linebacker position with Josh and Jordan, they're both getting a little bit dinged up. So might have to bring along maybe JJ and Jared here this week, bring those guys and get them some reps.
Q. Kash they said it was dizziness he was dealing with or what?
TOM HERMAN: Yeah, I don't really want to get into the injury, but he's injured.
Q. You mentioned he had been in the concussion protocol on your radio show. How concerning I guess is that?
TOM HERMAN: Well, any time, any time you have somebody in the concussion protocol it's concerning. And the doctors do a great job and we'll continue to monitor all injuries.
Q. What about Kavosiey?
TOM HERMAN: Kavosiey, he's got an AC joint sprain. That's a pain tolerance deal. So we'll see what happens there.
Q. Is Phil closer?
TOM HERMAN: Phil is closer. He should be out there this week. Like I said, I think that we get, with the bye after this week. It's five games, we have five games and then a bowl game, so we have to look at the red shirt guys again and just see if there's somebody that can help us. And I think outside backer with JJ and Jared, we have to look at those two and continue to bring them along.
Q. Xavier an option?
TOM HERMAN: Xavier an option? We'll see. He didn't make the trip with us this past week, I left him at home. It's our job to teach Xavier what our expectations are and how to handle your business here. He has a hard time get to things on time and doing things we ask him to do. So until he gets that straightened out he won't play.
Q. What was it you saw in the game plan that contributed to that kind of first half that both you guys had?
TOM HERMAN: Well, we did have good field position. Max was doing such a good job of punting, our offense moved it enough at times and just we were flipping field position, we had good field position, we were playing through the defense and that helped, it just helped limiting their explosive plays early was the key. And really most of the night it came down to a few possessions, field position, their two drives were short fields.
Q. You mentioned JJ and Jared. I think right now you're on pace to red shirt that entire freshman class. Have you ever been able to do that before?
TOM HERMAN: No, I've never been able to do that before and it is a big deal. It's important. It helps develop your class. You look at those guys. And just for this question, go back and look at last year's team and how experienced they were and how old they are and mature. It makes a big difference in this league. It makes a big difference for us because development is important. And sometimes you don't want to get guys when they're just really playing at a high level and then they're gone. If they're good enough to play in the NFL they will go anyway. So it is important.
Q. Do you have an update on Isaiah?
TOM HERMAN: No update. I mean, he hasn't been out there yet. Like I said last time I talked to you about it, he tried to run and it aggravated it a little bit, so.
Q. Was there any kind of the same defensive team they have always had?
TOM HERMAN: They are. They're a very similar to the way they have been. And one thing I think you really look at them and they play hard, they really have some guys up front that I really respect the way they play, they play tough, they play physical, doesn't surprise me. He does a very good job, they're very hard nosed and play with a lot of effort. They play good.
Q. Their numbers are right up there with Georgia as far as defensively. Have you seen, how have you seen them kind of respond since their star went out a week or two ago?
TOM HERMAN: He's a great player. I don't think there's any denying that, that it's going to change. It's kind of like us, when you take Terry out, the leadership that he has and the ability that he has, he's just not there. I mean I'm sure, I'm not in their locker room, I don't know. They still play at a very high level. No one guy makes it, but he was certainly a great player.
Q. (No microphone.)
TOM HERMAN: Shawn'Kel checked out a couple, maybe, oh, two or three weeks ago or so, told me he was very much not interested in playing football anymore. So he was, he lost the motivation and the desire to play the game.
Q. Have you ever had a guy, or especially a scholarship guy, someone who is capable of playing, just how do you assess that?
TOM HERMAN: I don't know, I mean just, you know, I really like him, he's a great person, really good kid, great family, just want him to be successful. He told me just he wanted to go to school, and but I have to try to help motivate him in that area too. But he wasn't interested in pursuing football anymore.
Q. How is coach Schlarman doing?
TOM HERMAN: He's doing good. He's handling things like a warrior. Very, it's still amazing, let's put it that way. We don't talk about it as much anymore, but now that you brought it up, it's the same. He does some amazing things as far as going and getting his treatment and he's getting some pretty serious stuff and as soon as that treatment's over he's right back at the office, not missing a beat.
Q. Have you heard Josh Allen was sacked yesterday? How fun has it been to watch his dominance?
TOM HERMAN: Yeah, that, very pleased for Josh and proud of him. Didn't get a chance to see it, but I did hear. It is my understanding that he's leading all rookies, doesn't surprise me. I know different scouts and different people that come through and as we talk about Josh, they all speak so highly of him.
Q. How validating is it for you guys as a staff knowing that development and how he's succeeding there?
TOM HERMAN: It's always important. It's important for these guys that are going through tough times right now. They just, you know, they all want it right now and everybody understands that. As your program gets better and you have guys that are playing at a higher level, you don't need as many young guys, but they have to continue to have that urgency in practice and lift and develop. With today, not having school or fall break, we were in there this morning, our young guys were in there early and a bunch of us coaches just went through and just went and spent some time with them and going through that weight room. And they were in there getting after it and that's what they have to do. And they were all in there a hundred percent, in there this morning working out, and it was good to see them. A lot of them are changing their bodies and they're going through a tough time. But Jordan Wright's a great example of that as well, took some time, took some time to play. We, you know, Jordan's a little disappointed but my conversation with Jordan was, we need you to play at a higher level, like pick up your game. And it's really good to see him go through a couple tough years. And then he's starting to really play and he's really grown up and he needs to continue to do that because he has a lot of upside. He's going to continue to push himself, he's playing through some banged up stuff, but he's starting to play at a higher level.
Q. Casey and Weaver, what have you seen from those guys and how comfortable would you be with them playing?
TOM HERMAN: They both have some really good talent and, you know, just like most freshman, I think they probably get a little discouraged because they feel like they're not playing so the consistency is there, the urgency in practice all the time. But you see the flashes of it and the ability, so we have to continue to, with young people, too, you can't take away their hope. They got to have some hope. And that's where with this rule and the ability to play in four games I think helps them down the stretch. And we need them because we're starting to get banged up. So I've seen them do some really good things but I also see them be inconsistent at times like most freshmen.
Q. (Question about the record.) You're 3-4 now, how does that make you feel?
TOM HERMAN: Good. It's better than everybody expecting us to lose. No, listen, I don't put any, you know, the situation is what it is. I come in here every Monday and I'm going to say it, it is what it is. I'm sure that you prepare, you prepare your team, you develop your team, you get them ready it play the game, that's what drives us. That's what motivates coaches. When we're in there on Sunday morning after getting all home at 2:30 in the morning and we're back in there Sunday trying to prepare something to help us win a game, that's what motivates us. Really, by the time I get here Monday at noon, that game is gone. I have to come back and revisit it with y'all. And the way the rules are, we have to with our team as well, because we can't meet with them on Sunday. But for us we're moved on and it's time as a staff, and that's what motivates us, that's what's fun about it and exciting about it is getting ready for the next challenge. And you better be ready because this league gives no mercy.
Q. After the game when we were talking to Brad white he was saying that on the sidelines he starting to see the look in the guys' eyes that you want to see from a top level defense. Are you seeing that look and what exactly does that mean?
MARK STOOPS: Yeah, I think just I would say it means confidence. They're getting more and more confident, that they understand the urgency to execute the defense and then to play at a high level, to do their job and do it well, do it with some urgency. And you're starting to see that.
Q. As your secondary continues to improve, what does that do for you as far as scheming? What things can you do when you start to have more confidence in your secondary?
MARK STOOPS: It can help us at times put a little more stress on them, play with a few more numbers and get a little firmer in the run game at times.
Q. Are they to that point?
MARK STOOPS: Well, we have done that throughout this year already. The guys have held up in some one-on-one situations quite a bit. This will be probably the biggest challenge of the year in that area because these guys can go. Their receivers can run, they spread you out, they have a quarterback that can make all the throws, so this will be the biggest test of the year.
Q. Kelly Bryant has some wheels. For those newcomers who have to contain outside, what kind of stress does it put on them?
MARK STOOPS: Yeah, any time, you've heard me talk about it just last week I believe in here with the pass rush, when you have a guy that can escape, you have to be disciplined in your rush lanes and that makes a big difference because you have to be, like I said, you have to play with some discipline. Sometimes guys want to come up and under and they get a sack. If you have somebody that can't really run away from you, it doesn't hurt you. But he certainly can.
And then you tie in them spreading it out and how they like to spread the field and throw the ball, and then you add in some design cue run, then that always puts stress on you.
Q. Are you worried at all about this game being even hyper-officiated based upon what happened last year and everything and how that played out, or has that crossed your mind at all?
MARK STOOPS: Well, I don't understand.
Q. Just with the call, like, I think the Missouri fans might be have a feeling about how it ended but they're probably different than your feelings.
MARK STOOPS: Yeah, oh, gosh, I could say some things right now that wouldn't be good. No, I'm worried about getting, us getting a call.
Q. Bowden has been very consistent at telling us that he's going to do whatever he needs to do, play whatever position in order to help the team win. As his head coach it's got to be real difficult striking that balance between doing what's best for the team and what's potentially best for him. How do you deal with something like that?
MARK STOOPS: It's not in conflict in this, in his area, if you're just looking at him in his own development. I don't think that's a conflict at all because of when you're doing what he's doing, for him himself, he probably actually enjoys that a lot more because the game is truly running through him on every snap unless he's, unless we flex him out. So he has an opportunity to affect the game each and every play. So for him I'm sure that excites him. But and it's not going to hurt him for his future if he decides to go to the NFL after this year or has that opportunity this can only help him. But when the time's right, when we can get him back at receiver, we will welcome him back there as well, because he's an impact guy, he runs well. We'll see what direction the game plan goes with this week with who is playing quarterback. Clevan had a really nice catch and really working hard and doing some good things out there as well.
Q. (No microphone.)
MARK STOOPS: Well, yeah, I think it's that and it was raining and windy, but also experience, just doing it. The more and more you do it. Certain punts are harder to catch than others, depending upon that spin and what's going on with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT