SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Jay Don Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk a little bit about your round today, some good things and bad things. 69 is pretty tough to beat today.   
 JAY DON BLAKE: Yeah, it's just a grind from start to finish. You just try to position your shots in the fairways and just try to get it on the green. The greens are getting a little bit firmer. They were softer earlier, but they're starting to get firmer as the day goes on.   
 Early I struggled kind of getting it in the fairway and got a couple over quick. And then I started hitting a lot better shots, hitting some fairways and hitting the greens and could be more aggressive.   
 And I made some good putts for birdies and I got a little confidence out there coming in.   
 And I got a tough lie on 18 over there in the bunker, just side hill, I would have much rather missed it in the bunker, but it scooted out on the lip. And I didn't execute very well from there and made bogey.   
 But other than that I felt like I played well, played a good solid round of golf, and you just got to stay so patient out there, you just got to pace yourself around. And when you get opportunities to make some birdies, try to capitalize on those.  
  
  Q. Do you use this back nine as kind of building momentum into the weekend here?  
 JAY DON BLAKE: Well, I probably hit it the same pretty well for the two days, I mean it wasn't like an exceptional hitting round, it was just the same thing, try to hit it in the fairway and just kind of execute the good shots when you need to.   
 And the greens are so tough to putt it's hard to really be aggressive on a lot of birdie putts anyway. And I felt good about the way I executed all day.   
  
  Q. Expecting any changes between today and tomorrow in the course layout in terms of where the pins are going to be or are they going to make them tougher do you think?  
 JAY DON BLAKE: Well, they're tough wherever they put them. There's just a couple holes that can only go in one certain area because they're so sloped. So you kind of find out where that's going to be.   
 But we kind of know generally where they're going to kind of be, so I don't think it's going to make it any tougher, it's just going to have a different look hitting into the greens. We don't know what the weather is going to do.  
  
  Q. There's a chance of rain.   
 JAY DON BLAKE: They're predicting rain and if it rains the fairways will get a little bit wet, the course will play longer, the ball won't go as far. And the greens, it might slow them up lightly, which could help. But you know, we'll just have to see.  
  
  Q. Are the greens still bouncy out there?  
 JAY DON BLAKE: Yeah, they're pretty bouncy. The fairways are bouncy. You hit a ball down the middle of the fairway, we joked for two days, we said that we have been hitting some good shots that we thought were good shots, we get down there and it's in the rough. So we don't say anything until we see it in the fairway down there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT