FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 27, 1997
Jay Don Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAY DON BLAKE:  Well, best thought is I am glad it is over with today.  Coming out here 6:00 in the morning, finally getting done at 6 o'clock.  But, as for the golf part of it, I felt like I hit it pretty good.  Just mainly kept it in play, in the fairways. And, I felt like I am hitting my irons pretty well.  Hit a lot of good iron shots today up close, making some birdies.  Started out with 3 birdies on the first three holes to kind of get things going right off the start.  Then, next birdie was on No. 5, I guess it was, par 5, made about a 20-footer for birdie there.  And then made some pars, had some good chances to make some birdies.  And next birdie didn't happen until 11.  I hit 8-iron in there about two feet, made that for birdie.  And then 12, I made another birdie from about ten feet on Number 12.  Parred 13.  14, I ended up making bogey.  Just hit it just left of the green; had a real easy chip shot; didn't hit a very good one.  Had a pretty easy putt; didn't hit a good putt, ended up making bogey on 14.  Coming around on the next hole, hit 9-iron in there about couple feet, made birdie to get that one back.  And then we came in the pro shop for about four hours, or whatever it was, got to eating all the grub and drink and socialize until we went back out.  And 16, I hit my third shot before the rain delays about five, six feet away.  And, hoping to kind of get that one to kind of start things off after the delay.  Missed it.  Made par.  Come to 17, hit driver, 3-iron about foot and a half. Made that for birdie.  Put me at 7-under for the day.  18, I hit a decent drive down the middle, kind of got a bad lie, had a bunch of mud on the ball, trying to protect which direction it is going to go, hit it long, low right, had a pretty tough downhill, sidehill chip shot.  Hit it about ten feet past, and ended up making that for par to finish up shooting 64, 7-under.  I felt like I hit it good all day.  Just never really had it in the rough much.  Hit it in the fairways and on the greens and got some putts to go in.


Q.  How do you plan for the next couple of days when things have been so crazy with the weather around here, not knowing whether you are going to get the full 72 in or 54 or just what -- does it break your routine? 

JAY DON BLAKE:  Well, you really can't try to plan on anything because it has been so erratic already.  I guess, you know, going to get some rest for tomorrow morning and call out here and see what is going on with how many holes the guys got to play.  And, if there is anymore rain -- I don't know if it is going to rain tomorrow or not.  You just kind of have to wait and see and, you know, play it the way it happens. Probably plan on playing about 3 o'clock tomorrow.

JAY DON BLAKE:  Questions?  Anymore questions?

JAY DON BLAKE:  Front 9, birdie putt from about ten feet, made it.  Then made about 8-footer on number 2 and then about a 10-footer on 3.  20 feet on No. 5.  Got it?


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT