NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 26, 1999
Scoonie Penn
Michael Redd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  This is for both of you. How much of a factor in this game is Ricky Moore and whether he guards you, Scoonie or Michael, the decision they have to make as to who they're going to put him on. How big a factor is that?

SCOONIE PENN:   I feel it's a big factor because, you know, Ricky Moore, he can really play some defense. He's one of the best on the ball defensive players in the country. He's going to give us problems on defense while we're on offense.

MICHAEL REDD:   He's a great defender. It's a challenge for either one of us if he guards us, either one of us. We just have to be on top of our game.


Q.  Michael, I'll ask you a two-parter here. First of all, you committed Ohio State in some of the darker days. How do you feel about that decision now?  And, second of all, are you -- do you have any sense of maybe hometown hero a little bit since you stayed home a good part of this rebuilding? 

MICHAEL REDD:   To answer the first question, it feels really great. I've been in Columbus all my life, seeing Ohio State struggle through those six years or five years, it hurt. Growing up in the process, you want to stay home and help your program out.  Second question, I really haven't thought about that, being a hometown hero or what not. People know us regardless of who we are and love us regardless.


Q.  Scoonie, how much are you looking forward to the matchup at point guard and do you feel you have an advantage at this game?

SCOONIE PENN:   I like the match up between Khalid and myself. I don't see it as an advantage because I've been hot lately. He had an O for 12 game. That's thrown out the window. It's a whole new week, whole new ball game. I'm looking forward to it.


Q.  This is for both of you guys. If you could just address how important is it going to be for you guys to get offense support from the front court?  How big of a load will they take off you if you can score?

MICHAEL REDD:   Tremendous. They've been playing really well in the tournament so far this year. Jason and Kenny are playing real well. Kenny's blocking  shots. Jason's hustling for balls, what not, playing good defense. Those two scores -- can score for us tomorrow, it would be really great.  SCOONIE PENN:   When the front court performs like they're capable of doing, it makes things a lot easier for Mike and myself. Because, you know, they don't have Mateen on us so much. If Jason or Kenny are able to get off a little bit, that helps our chances out a lot.


Q.  This is for Michael. The coach was just talking about how last year he created a little bit of a monster by allowing you to take almost any shot you wanted and your defense to some degree. Can you talk about the improvements you've made on defense and if you were to cover Richard Hamilton, your thoughts on defending him?

MICHAEL REDD:   I think I improved on my defense. A lot of people -- this year I really worked hard on trying to improve that. The matchup with Richard Hamilton is going to be a tremendous one. He's a great player and I would like to be the P and Q who guards him.


Q.  Scoonie, a lot of your earlier coaches have said that you were considered a father figure in your family at a very early age. Do you think that's true,  and if so, what prompted it and do you think that translated on to the basketball court where they've also said you were immediately a leader?

SCOONIE PENN:   Well, with regard to my family, I do feel like the father figure probably because I have a little brother and sister. I have a couple nephews and a niece. I have a lot of young cousins that I think look up to me. Ever since a young age, I've always felt like kind of the father figure because I didn't have a father growing up. I just think, you know, it helped me out as far as getting some confidence. I think that's translated right on to the basketball court.


Q.  Scoonie, could you talk a little bit about the perception of this Final Four is Duke and the other guys, and do you feel like you're playing an undercard?

SCOONIE PENN:   I feel like we're playing an undercard. We probably don't get spoken about as much as the other teams. They're number one seed, we're number four seed. But I feel that's okay with us. I feel like we've been in that situation all season, kind of played the underdog role. It fit us well, so we'll continue playing it.


Q.  Scoonie, I know you're familiar with them, but  both of you guys can talk about what you know about and your thoughts going up against Ricky Moore.

SCOONIE PENN:   I don't really know. Ricky Moore, I do remember when I was at Boston College. I don't think I had a pretty good game, he covered me, maybe the second time I played him. I watched him on TV. He was one of the best players or best scorers. He shuts them down. I think that gives Richard Hamilton and Khalid El-Amin a little rest on defense. I think he's the work horse. If he covers me or if he covers Mike, he's gonna have to work. It's going to be a good battle.


Q.  This is for both Michael and Scoonie. Can you talk about the emotions when you stepped out on the court for the first time, being in the Final Four and hearing the fans cheer you on.

MICHAEL REDD:   Unbelievable. To be in that position, you've been waiting for that since you were a little kid, working hard to be in that position. We walked out today, felt great. The fans were behind us, the floor was beautiful. The atmosphere was great.

SCOONIE PENN:   I felt ever since we beat St. Johns last week and we've been in the Final Four, I mean I felt like it really hasn't hit me that much. But I know when I walked out there for the first time today  and heard the crowd yell, just seeing everybody's faces lit up, it made me feel like we are at the Final Four. It's just a great feeling.


Q.  Scoonie, when you got to Ohio State, you knew that Michael was there and had been doing well. How did you head off any potential conflicts between the two of you?  Did you sit down and talk with him?  Was there any communication right off the bat to settle the air?

SCOONIE PENN:   Mike and myself, we really hit it off good the first time we met. I remember the first time watching him play, I watched him, thought this kid's gonna be really good. I think we had a great relationship ever since that day. We always talk about what we're gonna do, things we want to accomplish at the back court. We just got along since day one, there's been no conflict like that.


Q.  This question is for Mike. Mike, your coach was talking about the fact that he doesn't want you all to settle for just being here. I want to ask you if you have noticed any difference in the intensity of your practices, before the Regionals, the ones here, is there any evidence that anybody has let them down this week?

MICHAEL REDD:   I don't think so. We're practicing the same as we did. We have a lot of hard  work, very intense, very aggressive. And it's been great. You know, we need to keep doing that in order to beat Connecticut. If you let down, you're going to be out of the tournament pretty quick.


Q.  Mike, can you talk about the effectiveness that Scoonie has had on you as far as how he's helped you become mature a little bit?

MICHAEL REDD:   He really has. He really has. Like I said earlier, Scoonie's a great player. He knows what to do on the court. Last year, I was basically by myself. This year he's come in and done a tremendous job, done a lot of scoring, penetrating, passing, rebounding. So it really is a total package.


Q.  This is for both of you. Could you talk about how tough the conference games were this year and what some of your memorable moments were?

SCOONIE PENN:   The conference play was very tough. I don't think there's a game that we prepared for that we felt like okay, this game won't be that hard. Every game we played was going to be a battle and was coming down to the wire. You want to think about my thoughts, at Indiana, that was a great feeling. The atmosphere and the history that Ohio State has had in the past not beating Indiana at home. We won, that was one of the best feelings. 

MICHAEL REDD:   I think the conference was the best in the country. It was evident when the last place team in the conference did well in the Big Ten tournament. They beat us. So that proves a lot. You know, with conferences, it was very hard. Every team's tough. So, you know, that speaks a lot for the conference.


Q.  This question is for both of you. So much has been made about Duke's invincibility coming in to this tournament. Could you address the possibility of how you feel about Michigan State's chances just based on what you've seen in Michigan State this year?

MICHAEL REDD:   Michigan State's a tough team. They beat us this year at Michigan State. They only lost by six to Duke the first time, I think. I don't know why people are wigging out. They're a great team. Mateen Cleaves is a great leader, Morris Peterson. It's a tough bunch of kids that play hard.

SCOONIE PENN:   I think it's going to be a very good game between two very good teams. Michigan State is a team that you cannot overlook. I think they have great team chemistry, they have a leader on the team. I think they're underrated defensively. I think those guys really buckle down and they play tough defense the whole game. 


Q.  Mike, apparently it's Michael Redd back in Columbus, at least in your elementary school, I think they're looking in. Can you talk about your experience there or the fact that I think a lot of those kids think you're a role model now.

MICHAEL REDD:   It's definitely an honor. To get the response from those kids, makes you feel great. It's definitely an honor to be put in that position. To see kids from the school.


Q.  Michael, do you at all feel you've been slighted in terms of personal recognition in spite of the team's success?

MICHAEL REDD:   A little bit at first. You know, it really gave me motivation to play really hard in the tournament to feel like I deserved to be on the first team. But people that made the first team, you know, they deserve it. No bad, no harsh feelings or whatnot against them. I'm determined to play as hard as I can. Just to prove that I deserve to be on the first team.


Q.  Can you talk about some of the things O'Brien has added to this program to make you guys turn around so fast.

SCOONIE PENN:   He added a winning attitude. He made guys believe in this program. I think when I  first arrived there, I don't think anyone on the team on the program really had a winning attitude on basketball anymore. It was time to turn this around. O'Brien brought a winning attitude to Columbus.

MICHAEL REDD:   He brings, like Scoonie said, a winning attitude. You know, he brings a lot of hard work to get the way our team is, it's a reflection of his character on the floor. We listen to him and we listen to his directions.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT