WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 18, 2005
Kara Lawson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Do you see any similarities between the last two games? 
 
KARA LAWSON:  Yes and no.  I really looked at them as two separate games.  But the fact that I haven't experienced winning a championship since high school, I mean, yeah, that's something that I would like to do with this team.  But I really keep it separate because things are so different.  This has been the best team I've ever played on and the most fun team I've ever played on because everyone really wants to win for each other.  And they're very unselfish.  And it's just been a special year so far.  I was talking to Ticha the other day and regardless of what happens, the season is over in four days and I'm not ready for that at this point.  So I don't want to break up and have everyone go their separate ways.  We'll never have this same group together, that's how it is, how pro sports is.  So it's been a special year and I'm glad to have been a part of it.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about what the year has been like, with injuries and new players. 
 
KARA LAWSON:  With all the injuries, with all the new people that we brought in, with the blend of older players and younger players, everyone has had to adapt and take on a role that maybe they don't totally agree with, but they have to do it for the team.  I don't know, it's been a perfect mix.  Our young players are great, they're unselfish, they come in, they play hard.  Our veterans have allowed our young players to grow and haven't felt like they have stepped on their toes, have allowed them to be successful and have some notoriety and have some success.  And I think you have to have mature veterans that will allow young players to not have jealousy, that will allow young players to be in the forefront and succeed.  And it's a great group.  It's a privilege to be around them and we just have a lot of fun playing together.  So you can play with anyone, you can play with anyone.  Coach will put in, whether it's DeMya, or Brunson, I know what I'm going to get:  I know I'm going to get great effort.  Although they have different skill sets, I know that they're all going to look if we're open and they're going to pass the ball, take a charge, you're going to help.  That's just the way we play.  
 
Q.  With injuries this year, was this the toughest year for you personally in your career? 
 
KARA LAWSON:  Oh, yeah.  This has been the toughest year for me as an individual by far.  I was so stressed out during the time I was out, I started losing my hair when I was out.  I had to go to the dermatologist to have him tell me it was just stress, because I was frustrated.  I had never been injured before.  Your team is winning, you want to help them win and be a part of it.  And it's hard.  So, yeah, there was times when I didn't know if I would get back to play again, I didn't know if I would be the same player I was when I came into training camp.  And I remember having conversations with different teammates, just being frustrated.  And they all stayed positive and helped me through it.  And then when I finally got to playing the way I wanted to, in Phoenix I popped my shoulder out and then I'm out again and I'm questionable for the playoffs.  But it's funny because in the midst of probably my worst year as an individual, it's been the most successful team that I've ever been a part of.  So it's funny how that works.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT