NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v WARRIORS
May 23, 2016
Enes Kanter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Last night, what happened to Steven?  
ENES KANTER: I mean, well, it's just no fun.  I've got no comment about that.  But this guy's having pain out there and it's not even funny.  I mean, I was pretty sad about it because he had that.  So it's pretty tough.   
 Q.  You guys won playing big in the Spurs series, in Game 1 you guys played big.  But last night you won big time going small.  What did that feel like out there as you saw Serge in the center spot and you guys having success there?  
ENES KANTER: I think he's done a really good job on them you know in the center spot.  He blocked some shots, helped us on offense, defense.  He just played big-time for us last night.  And he did a pretty good job on the center spot.   
 Q.  When the Warriors did not go small a bunch, they kept centering most of the game.  Have they surprised you how little they've gone small in this series?  
ENES KANTER: Yeah, it did surprise me because we are going big and they're going small, but that definitely surprised me that they're going small most of the games.  But you know what, we just cannot worry about it.  We have to stick with our game plan and go out there and play our basketball.   
 Q.  When you get this deep in a series, Coach [Steve] Kerr was saying before the series began, you hit Game 3, Game 4 things get a little more intense because guys get a little tired of playing one another and get aggressive.  Are you noticing an increase in that intensity and level of aggression?  
ENES KANTER: Yeah, definitely.  If you compare it to the first game and now it's definitely more intense and both teams are playing more physical.  But I think you know what?  We're not going to back off.  We're just going to go out there and do our job, play our basketball, and play like we did last night.  Just go out there from the start to finish and just do the same thing.   
 Q.  You as a team have another level. Do you feel like you need to hit that in Game 4?  
ENES KANTER: Definitely.  If we play like we did last night, I don't think any team can beat us.  Everybody was sharing the ball, communication was there, and we really connected.  Just I think, like I said again, if we play like we played last night, I don't think anybody can keep up with us.   
 Q.  I read a study last night or this morning that groin shots in the NBA are much more prevalent than they used to be.  You've only been in the league four or five years, but are you seeing more cheap shots like that than you did when you first got in the league?  
ENES KANTER: Well, I have no idea.  It's definitely really dangerous, but I think that's his thing.  I don't have no comment about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT