NBA DRAFT
June 23, 2011
Enes Kanter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Enes, when did you learn that the Jazz were going to draft you? I know you were pretty excited yesterday about it. 
 ENES KANTER: I was following mock drafts. I learned from there. I didn't know until the last, David Stern. 

 Q. Have you gotten a chance to speak with Mehmet Okur and what has he told you about the organization?
 ENES KANTER: First of all he told me about the Utah Jazz, and it's a great city. It's great and he has lots of fun there. And I'm so happy, because I have family there. You know, we are both from Turkey. And I believe when I go there, he will help me a lot, because we are both from Turkey. I will be so comfortable a lot and be playing center, he will be a big help for me to go there. 

 Q. Who are you looking forward to going up against to challenge yourself? 
 ENES KANTER: I mean, I love to play toughness. I love to get hit. I just love to play toughness. So it doesn't matter who; I'm just going to put myself in the court 100%. 

 Q. Your international success with the Hoop Summitt, as well as the European Basketball Championships, Under 18, your dominance, how will that translate to the next level, being able to dominate everywhere you've been? 
 ENES KANTER: First of all, I couldn't play college. So in Hoops Summitt, I knew I had to show myself 100%. But before the game, I wasn't sure if I was going to play or not, because I got hit and I got hurt, first practice. 
 And after that, I talked to Coach about Hoop Summitt and about getting myself -- I said, "Coach, I'm not sure if I'm going to play or not." 
 He said, "Go ahead and warm up." Before the game, I took four painkiller and just showed myself 100%, and I just showed myself, because I knew I had NCAA problems, so that's why I just tried to show myself 100%. 

 Q. Unlike a lot of these guys in the Draft, most people have not seen you play. What's your game? What's it going to be in the NBA? What are you like as a player?
 ENES KANTER: I mean, first of all, I hate to lose and I love to play toughness. I love to play a tough game. And I will say back to basket and rebounds, but right now, I'm working on my shot and face-up game. 

 Q. It appeared on TV you were going to dedicate this season to Kentucky fans; is that what you said and if so, why? 
 ENES KANTER: That's true. First of all, they support me a lot. They are so special to me. You know, they will always be in my heart. It was so sad and frustrating. I couldn't play for them, and I just -- I still want to like help them, because they support me a lot. Just like they made "Free Enes" T-shirts. They just did everything for me and I just want to support them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT