NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: COKE ZERO 400 POWERED BY COCA-COLA
July 5, 2015
Joie Chitwood, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by the President of International Speedway, Joie Chitwood.   
JOIE CHITWOOD:   Thank you, Andrew.   I was proud of the emergency rescue team that responded to the incident after the race.   We assessed 13 individuals in the grandstands.   Eight declined any medical attention.   We had four treated on property in our first aid and care centers and we had one transported off property to a local hospital.   That individual was reported as stable when they were transported off property.   
I'm really proud of the fact that the fence worked and the additional safety enhancements of the Daytona Rising project did its job, as well.   We'll take this situation, we'll learn from it, we'll analyze it, and we'll round up our engineering team and see if there's any additional things we can learn to get better the next time.   Really proud of the effort of our team and who responded and that the fence worked and that the enhancements of the Daytona Rising project worked, as well.   
   
 Q.   Was that the same area where Kyle's car went flying, and also, please, if you can get into a little bit of detail about what exactly specifically the enhancements were.   
JOIE CHITWOOD:   I do not believe that's the same area that Kyle‑‑ I don't believe so, and I'm not really sure that's the incident that you're talking about.   Obviously the enhancements with the Rising project included the location of the grandstands, the fencing and no longer having individuals on Rim Road, so with the fence and the Daytona Rising project, it did its job tonight, and we're very proud of that.  
   
 Q.   Was that section 163?   
JOIE CHITWOOD:   I don't have the section.   It's the section right past start‑finish line a couple hundred yards.   We can find that section number for you.  
   
 Q.   Moving forward with the Daytona Rising project, will the grandstands will elevated to a point where if cars and such do hit the fence like that that the fan safety won't come into play?   
JOIE CHITWOOD:   You know, obviously through the last couple years, we've learned a lot, whether it's fencing or the facility itself in terms of enhancements.   One of the elements of the project of Daytona Rising was no longer having fans or individuals on Rim Road and closing off the grandstands on the front row, so those were in the new sections, and that was what was in place today, and I think it did a very good job.   
   
 Q.   At this point do you get with NASCAR to talk about fence heights and strengths, and do you dissect this accident and kind of break it down to see if this was like a super close call or if this turned out the way you guys expected?   
JOIE CHITWOOD:   Absolutely.   We'll work closely with NASCAR.   We did this after the last incident.   We're going to learn from it and see what else we can do to be better.   I think you saw some of the improvements at work today, so what we can learn from that tomorrow and the next days we're going to incorporate moving forward.   It's very important that safety is always going to be at the forefront, whether it's the competitor, whether it's the fan.   We want to make sure we have a safe environment to put on some great racing, so we'll learn from this and get better even the next time.  
   
 Q.   Can you say if there was any type of debris or if anything went on the other side of the fence toward the stands?   In the Kyle Larson incident a couple years ago there were some large parts of the car that penetrated or got on the other side.   Did anything like that happen in this case?   
JOIE CHITWOOD:   Really I can only talk about the incident with the fans and that we only had 13 assessed and a number of them declined and only four were treated on‑site and one off property, so I think had a just shows you the fence kept everything where it was supposed to be, and the other enhancements of Daytona Rising kept the fans safe, so I think we're really pleased with that.   But again, we're going to figure out what else we can learn from this and what we can do to be better prepared next time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT