NL DIVISION SERIES: NATIONALS VS DODGERS
October 4, 2019
Gavin Lux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. So how nervous were you for that at-bat last night? And be honest?
GAVIN LUX: Honestly, I wasn't. I didn't really have time to be nervous. I was hitting in the cage and Bob came down and told me, hey, you're going to hit here in the pitcher's spot. So just threw on my batting gloves, threw on my helmet, ran out there. I didn't really have time to process it or think about it, so it probably worked out in my favor that way.
Q. So today you do have a little bit more time to kind of process it. What's going through your mind before your first postseason start?
GAVIN LUX: Yeah, I'm definitely super excited. Strasburg is a really good pitcher, got really good stuff. So I'm just preparing for him and game planning for him and talking to guys that have faced him before. A lot of preparation, so I'm just excited to get out there and get it rolling.
Q. I heard the ball yesterday when into trash can. What was your reaction when you heard it?
GAVIN LUX: Yeah, the guy who got the ball for me was, like, hey, you know it bounced in a trash can right? I'm like you went dumpster diving for it? I guess I appreciate you doing that. But, yeah, it kind of makes it a little more funny and a better story for the ball, I guess. 20 years from now I can tell my kids, hey, this ball was in the trash can.
(Laughter.)
Q. How does it feel to know your first two postseason starts are going to be against Strasburg and Scherzer, two fairly easy assignments for you.
GAVIN LUX: (Laughter.) Yeah, I'm excited. I watched them pitch for, growing up, and I've seen them throw in a lot of big games. So for me I'm excited just to get out there and compete and see where I match up against them. So it will be fun. Just pass the torch to the next guy and keep the line moving.
Q. Can you take us through the year you've had? It's been quite a year. Minor League Player of the Year, Major League debut, and then quite a postseason debut last night. Can you take us through that?
GAVIN LUX: Yeah, started the year in Tulsa. Halfway through the year got moved up to OKC, and I wanted to get called up and that was a goal of mine. At the end of the day I didn't know if it was going to be able to happen or not, obviously, because of how talented and deep this team is. So for me to get that call up, and it was definitely a confidence booster. All the guys until the clubhouse make it a really easy transition for younger guys to come here and feel comfortable and be able to perform. So it's been a really fun year. Still got a lot of goals to accomplish, so, yeah.
Q. Is there something in the Dodgers system that makes the transition seem so seamless for all you rookies? You have such success when you get up here, and it seems like you're right at home when you get here?
GAVIN LUX: Yeah, I think the Dodgers player development does a really good job of preparing guys. You're not going to get called up if they don't feel like you can contribute right away. They do a really good job. As you can see, when guys get called up, you're expected to perform and be able to do that and help the team win. So they do a really good job and I think a lot of credit to them.
Q. What have you learned about Clayton from spring training and then over the last month or so?
GAVIN LUX: Kershaw? On his game days he's a complete different animal. Super routine. You can learn a lot from him just watching how he goes about his business and he's so fine in his routine and it's the same every single day. So for me as a younger guy who, you feel like have you a good routine, and you watch him and how he goes about it, it's completely different. So I've learned a lot just watching him and talking to him and how he preps, it's pretty amazing, yeah.
Q. Do you have a story back when you were a kid playing in your backyard or schoolyard somewhere with friends where you imagined being in the Playoffs or the World Series? Seems like every kid who wants to play ball does.
GAVIN LUX: Yeah, like you said, I think every kid who plays has that dream. I remember being in the backyard playing wiffle ball and I always reenacted Ken Griffey, Jr.'s swing, like I tried to do his finish all the time. And obviously my swing is nothing like his, but, yeah, that's kind of a funny story, I guess.
Q. How would you describe what, these four rookies that made the NLDS roster, what you guys have done and can you describe the bond and friendship that you guys have?
GAVIN LUX: Yeah, I didn't get to play with Will or Beatty up until OKC, like right around August. But I was around them in the spring so I got to know them. And me and Will were drafted together so we have had a pretty good relationship for awhile. But, yeah, I mean playing together in OKC was super fun, really competitive, really talented players. Me and Dustin roomed together on the 2016 after the draft in the AZL and I feel like we have kind of taken every step together and we have kind of been on the same track. So me and him, I think we always talked about that in the AZL, we're, like, hey, we have a chance to move up together and it's kind of gone that way. So for me and him, I think that's pretty special. And if you asked him I think he would probably say the same thing.
Q. Do you have family, friends coming to this series that are here to watch you?
GAVIN LUX: No, not in L.A. I think my mom, dad, uncle are going to try to shoot out to DC for a game or two. We'll see what happens. It was kind of too late of a turnaround to try to get them out here. But I know they're watching. And my hometown's kind of a smaller city, so got a lot of support and love from there, so it's been fun.
Q. You weren't even born the last time the Dodgers won a World Series Championship. Do you know anything, did they ever tell you about that, do you know anything about the year or the hero or anything like that?
GAVIN LUX: Honestly, not too much, no. John Shoemaker would kill me if he heard me say that in the AZL.
Q. Have you heard of Kirk Gibson?
GAVIN LUX: Yeah, of course. Who did he hit it off of? Tell me.
Q. Eckersley.
GAVIN LUX: Yeah, mustache, yeah. Yeah.
Q. Orel Hershiser?
GAVIN LUX: Yeah, Hershiser, of course. And there's been a lot of really good Dodgers teams, a lot of really good players.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT