VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 20, 2012
Lee Slattery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LEE SLATTERY:   Just played really nicely.   Felt like I left a couple of bad chips but apart from that, I played great golf.   Played the course a bit more aggressive today and hit a lot more drives off tees.   If you keep it in play you're going to set up a few birdie chances, so that's what I did.

Q.   You got off to a flyer, as well?
LEE SLATTERY:   I did to be honest.   Me and Retief birdied the first two holes and that kind of set the day up really.   Then the Amateur hit two great shots into the third and nearly made birdie there and made it four net three.   So we were off to a flyer.   It's great playing with someone like Retief, he's going to make a lot of birdies.   We were bouncing off each other really.   It was a bit of a shame, he made a couple of bogeys later on, but it was a ding dong battle really.   It was good.   I enjoyed it. 

Q.   Some lovely up‑and‑downs and long putts holed. 
LEE SLATTERY:   There were, looking back, there were two or three good putts that I holed, key holes where I bounced back. 
Certainly on 10 after bogeying 9 for the second day on the bounce, that's a reachable par 5.   You're a little bit disappointed; and to hole a 25‑footer down the slope there was a big momentum swinger for me and just set up the back nine for me really, so it's nice.

Q.   Did you see it coming?   Clearly it's opposite to what the opening day was, not a bad first day?
LEE SLATTERY:   Yesterday if you would have said I would have shot 3‑under yesterday, that would have been a fair score.   Just had a couple of really bad bounces yesterday where it kicked off the edge of fairways into rubbish and that's where the bogeys came from yesterday.   But it didn't play much different today.   Just putted well and like I say just took on a few more shots which I think is key out there. 

Q.   Did you not rust out of the system last week in a decent performance? 
LEE SLATTERY:   It was good.   I made a good birdie on the 9th hole last week, which was my 18th on the West Course which used to be a par 5, a tough hole and that got me through the cut.   To play those two rounds over the weekend, and I did play nicely in Joburg, I think that sets up this week.   Obviously delighted today with that score.   You don't expect to shoot 8‑under par around here.   It's got to be one of the best rounds of golf I've played out here.

Q.   How would you compare it to other rounds in your career?
LEE SLATTERY:   I think it's probably the best, with it being such a big event and so many great players as well, and playing with Retief, it was just one of them rounds I'm going to remember for the rest of my life and hopefully it can kick start something off for me.

Q.   And not only Retief, you had an amateur playing with you, which changes the dynamic just a little bit?
LEE SLATTERY:   Nice guy from back home.   Lived down in London.   We had a good chat all the way around.   Even in the team event today he holed some great putts under pressure and hit some great shots as well.   We all gelled well as a team and hopefully we can win. 

Q.   Did that help in its way? 
LEE SLATTERY:   It probably did.   He was a nice bloke and we had a lot in common because we are from the same country.   We had a lot to talk about, and you know, he was a good guy.   He was obviously very nervous teeing off which you would expect.   I don't know how these guys do it.   I remember when I used to play in junior opens and I was nervous on the first tee, God knows what he felt like today out there, but he handled it well.   The more the pressure became, he seemed to play better.   So, yeah, it was great. 

Q.   You put him at ease? 
LEE SLATTERY:   Maybe I did.   But at the same time, I think adrenaline plays a big part, as well, and some people play well with adrenaline and other people don't.   He seemed to‑‑ the more he got pumped up and the more he started getting a bit nervous, the better he played.   It just works like that sometimes.

Q.   A nice bonus for your performance as a team, isn't there. 
LEE SLATTERY:   We managed to win a car worth 30,000 Euros, nice estate car, lovely.   But might have to take the money.   It's a great bonus.   I was thinking about it coming down the stretch to be honest.   The last few holes we got so far ahead, I'm thinking, don't blow it now, so luckily we played well on the last few, as well.   Great bonus, fantastic.

Q.   Won a car before? 
LEE SLATTERY:   No.   Never.   I've bought one.   I've never won one, so this is new to me.   This is new to me this one.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT