BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
September 28, 2017
Lee Slattery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  An opening 65, how was that for you today?  
LEE SLATTERY: It was just great.  The reason it was bogey-free today was because every time missed the green, I hit a great chip.  I've been doing a little bit of work with Graham Walker recently, who is a really good short game coach.  He's just helped me out.   
I just have a bit more feel around the greens.  It quite easily have been a couple worse than that but in general, I really didn't hit into too much trouble, and that was the key to the round.   
 Q.  Coming in with some good form, as well, and that just shows how good your form is at the moment.  
LEE SLATTERY: I think so.  I think you're sort of riding the wave of confidence a little bit.   
Last week in Portugal, I struck the ball probably the best I've ever struck it but just couldn't get a break all week.  Seems to happen around there for me.  I think I play that course a little bit too aggressive, thinking it's quite easy, because the scoring is good.  But I kind of came away from last week not finishing great but still feeling confident about my game, and I brought it to this week.  Yeah, it's always good.   
 Q.  Putter on form, as well.  Nice one on 17 and one on 4, as well.  
LEE SLATTERY: Yeah, I've been putting in the hours.  I've put in probably hundreds of hours of work since last October.  That's been very good this season.  So far it's been a lot more consistent.   
I used to be a streaky putter but now I don't feel like I am.  I don't seem to 3-putt as much and hole out.  That's key playing on Tour.  You've got to putt well.   
 Q.  Overall, very pleased with the day's work?  
LEE SLATTERY: Very, very, very pleased, yeah.  It was an early start this morning.  Up at 5.00; it's never nice.  So you do feel tired quite early on, but the weather, it feels like we're back in Portugal again this week.  We've been really, really fortunate with the weather, and I just can't wait to get my thermal top off now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT