COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 30, 2016
Lee Slattery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice way to finish?
LEE SLATTERY: It was interesting, I went to Fancourt this year to do a lot of practise early on and the reason being is because I wanted to play well in this Dubai swing and finishing where I did last week was really disappointing.  So to bounce back and do well here, it does prove that you don't have to be too long out here.  They make name it "Lumper's Swing" because everybody hits it so far.  But I've just played steady this week in the wind and it's been a great week.
Q. Fancourt, tell us, very windy at times, isn't it?
LEE SLATTERY: It actually is.  I managed to get to play the links course three times whilst I was there.  Two of the days, it was very windy, so you could argue that was good preparation for this week.  Down by the coast there, it does get very windy.  The whole trip was great preparation.
Q. Clearly you have the victory with the Russian Open, so this frees you up for the season.  But is it still doubly good to get off to a lovely start to a new campaign?
LEE SLATTERY: I think so.  I think that's something in my career I've been missing.  I've always said I'd love to have my sort of card money up by Wentworth time, so you can sort of relax going into the bigger tournaments.  There's not that massive amount of pressure on you, because trying to keep a card during that spell whilst playing these big events, it's really difficult.
This year, I'm hoping I can get off to a fast start and hopefully this will just give me that momentum to go on and do better things.
Q. With Dubai just around the corner, presumably that's a nice, relaxed approach because the confidence is already there and the game is good.
LEE SLATTERY: Absolutely.  I'm still usually fighting in this Middle East swing.  It's never been great for me.  So I've got to say, this is a relief.  It's proof to myself that I can actually play well here, so going into Dubai next week, yeah, it's going to be a lot more relaxing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT