UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Sergio Kindle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Did you block the kick or were you looking away?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: I was looking to the sky, man. Luckily there was a roof on the building.  
  
  Q. Are you excited to be playing in this game?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: You can't even imagine how excited I am. I'm trying to contain it because I don't want to be overly excited. But the excitement is there.  
  
  Q. How does it feel to be the underdog? Do you embrace that?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: At this point, being the last game and thee game of the year, we really try not to worry about underdogs and all that type of stuff. We've got to focus on our game plan because these guys are very close to being great.   
 So if we don't cover it, we'll slip up. It won't be good. We've got to focus more on what we need to do than what everybody else thinks.  
  
  Q. You said they're close to being great. Are you guys the underdog?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: No, I'm saying they're like a really good team.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about playing against the Heisman are you motivated at all?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: About what?   
  
  Q. Wanting it?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: Of course you want to win it. But just because McClain's in the game, no, I'm not really motivated.  
  
  Q. Are you excited that this is being built up as a defensive battle and you guys have a chance to show how good you guys are?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: Oh, yeah. But that's going to motivate Colt and the guys to showcase that they can't score on good defenses. So it's going to be good all the way around.  
  
  Q. Your thoughts about Ingram as a runner and his style that he has?  
 SERGIO KINDLE: I mean, if there's a word for all styles, then that is probably what he is. He can do it all. Run in between the tackle, outside. Make moves, catch real well, not afraid to step up and take on blitzes. I mean, what more can you want? Don't turn the ball over, so, total package.   
  
  Q. Is there a running back you guys have played this year that you can compare him to?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: He'd be like a combination of Chris brown and DeMarco Murray as one, a lot of speed, lot of power.   
  
  Q. Have they talked to you guys getting back to two a days. Back in two-a-days everybody talks about how the defense is getting ahead of the offense. Is that still true?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: No, I say we're right on track with each other. I mean, it took both sides to get us here. So I can't say neither is ahead of the other one.   
  
  Q. Now that classes are over is it fun playing like that?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: I know it's a lot easier to come into practice motivated when you don't have to worry about classes afterwards because you're going to be tired. You can play more focused on what usual doing on the field. Not saying that we didn't all year. But we just don't have to worry about going to class.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about how crazy Coach Muschamp and how excited he gets before every game, especially preparing for a National Championship?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: It's about the same. Muschamp is the guy that don't want to make things bigger than it is, even though it is the biggest game of the year. But he's still got to realize it's just another game. You know, it's for all the marbles. But it's still just another game, so...  
  
  Q. Did he tell you guys that?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: That's how I feel about it. Just looking on how he's acting, that's how he's looking at it.  
  
  Q. You have six AP All Americans. Do you guys have a chip on your shoulder at all about this game?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: No. I mean -- I mean I would have to say those guys deserved it. I mean, they didn't get voted into that position for no reason. I mean, we still have a great defense regardless of, you know, where we were voted. So we're just going to have to go out there and play our game, you know. Let it be known.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about do you have a favorite Christmas present growing up as a kid?   
 SERGIO KINDLE: Probably a hug and a smile. No, I used to get a lot of coal from Santa. No, I'm playing, I'm playing. Um, man, I don't know. I've always been the giver lately just because, you know, I don't really worry about receiving.   
 I mean, I guess that could be my favorite thing. Just being fortunate enough to have something to give. I've been receiving all my life, so.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
   
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT