LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2020
Patrick Beverley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clippers 113, Nuggets 107
Q. Couple moments where you finally lock in on defense to end the second quarter and the fourth quarter.  Is this something said that leisure to those moments because the defense had been full of mental lapses there before.
PATRICK BEVERLEY:   Well, first off, the word finally is an overstatement.  We held a team to 107 points, one of the best offenses in the league, so I would say that was good defense.
But overall, we did what we needed to do.  We got key stops when we needed to get key stops, and we got key rebounds when we needed to get key rebounds.  Give them a lot of credit.  Coming from a seven-game series to the type of play, they come out here, energetic, you have to give them a lot of credit, a lot of credit.  Well-coached.  Good players.  Good bigs.  Good guards.  Got to give them a lot of credit.
Q. Doc was saying that you guys -- the first team that played defense, obviously you guys played defense the whole game, but that really turned it on was going to be the winners.  Is that something he's stressing to you guys on the sideline?
PATRICK BEVERLEY:   Yeah, I think that's a statement for any team in the NBA, you know.  Any team that plays different defense, give them a chance to win a lot of games.  That goes without saying.  You supposed to lay your hat on your defense and rebounding.  That leads to early offense.  So I guess so.
Q. Continuing on the defense, you had a lot of stops and rebounds thats led to run-outs.  What did you think of Lou, in particular the way he played on that end tonight?
PATRICK BEVERLEY:   Lou is always great.  He's one of the leaders of this team.  Anything Lou does, defensively, offensively, doesn't surprise me.  Underground; go for a reason.  Trying to do something special here, so whatever it takes.
Q. The team got up 12 corner threes tonight.  Seemed like the ball movement was really crisp, and Doc mentioned in the last game that he wanted the ball to get moving quicker.  Were you all satisfied with the shots and the quality of looks you all got tonight?
PATRICK BEVERLEY:   Yeah, but I feel like, you know, throughout the game, I feel like we can be a lot better, and we will, but this was a step for sure.
Q. Paul has mentioned he wants to be that guy for Kawhi to help alleviate pressure for him and be another leader on the team.  Can you just a minute talk about his performance tonight and how everyone followed his lead?
PATRICK BEVERLEY:   I know he made some big plays offensively.  But his energy, defensively, blowing up screens, picking up, that's what I thought I was most impressed with, defensive side.
Q. Zub showed some emotion in dealing with him after he fouled off.  Can you talk about the job Zub has done and the difficulty guarding Jokic?
PATRICK BEVERLEY:   Jokic presents the same type of, I don't know, I wouldn't say problems, but he presents the same thing Doncic presents, Luka presents, a lot of flailing.  You know, puts a lot of pressure on the referees to make the right call.  I think Zub did a hell of a job.  Six fouls did, what he needed to do.  Got one big dunk at the end.  Big free throws at the end.  We got a win.  I think that's the most important.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT