LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 14, 2020
Patrick Beverley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Pat, we'll start off with questions for you.
 Q. There are obviously lots of important questions to ask you, but I would like to ask you one that kind of caught the Internet's attention this week when you gave a tour of your room.  Can you describe the T-shirts?  Are you selling them?  What's the hustle you're doing with the T-shirts?
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   I like to wear a lot of T-shirts.  I try to put one and two together.  I'm pretty sure NBA guys like to wear T-shirts also.  I just wanted to make everything available for everyone.
 Q. Are you going to be wearing anything on the back of your jersey for a statement for social justice efforts?
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   Yeah, Beverley.
 Q. Nothing else, just Beverley?
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   That's enough in itself.  You don't think so?
 Q. I think so.
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   Beverley.
 Q. What do you think of the whole NBA setup with the different things they're doing to help with health and safety with the Magic Band, the Oura ring, the app that you put that in?  What do you think of it?
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   Very smooth.  Very professional.  The whole setup here is top-notch.  You just get to hone in and focus on basketball.  Kind of gets you some quality time to yourself away from friends and family.  For some people it's a good thing, for some people it's a bad thing.
 For me, I'm going to take advantage of this idle time and use it to my advantage.
 Q. What was the NBA hiatus like for you, considering usually around this time you're playing for a championship?  Was it hard for you to be away from the game for that long?
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   No, for me basketball is a year-round sport.  I don't know anything about taking off.  I just been doing what I've been doing throughout the last couple years:  working on my body, working on my craft, working on my mind, trying to make myself the best weapon possible.
 I'm just fortunate to be here.
 Q. As one of the leaders, as a voice in the locker room, can you tell us how you kept the team locked in mentally over the last couple months?
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   I just think everyone on our team, you know how we roll, everyone has a voice no matter if you're the top dog or not getting a lot of time at all.  Everybody has a voice.  We listen to everybody.  Me, PG, Lou, Trez, Mook, all the veterans on the team, we try to make sure we in contact with every guy at least once or twice a week.
 Really wasn't like a break for us because we're in so much communication all the time.  Just to get those words, say those things in person is definitely a different feeling when you get around all the guys.
 It's a brotherhood here, camaraderie here.  We just picked up where we left off.
 Q. People have been talking about all the crazy items some people have been bringing to the bubble.  What has been the most interesting you've seen?  Trez brought a sauna.
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   I mean, I'm not the type to go in other people's rooms, kind of check out what they got going on.
 I know Lou has this recording, I don't know, studio, whatever you might call it.  That's pretty dog.  That was my first time kind of seeing one of those in person.  I think that's pretty dope.
 Q. Paul George has talked about how he's a lot healthier now than he was obviously during training camp and throughout the season.  It's been limited practice time.  What have you seen from him so far?
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   I guess Paul George.  I mean, yeah, I don't know.  What do you mean?
 Q. Have you seen anything different?  Have you seen him moving, more sprite?  Has he been a little bit better on the court movement-wise?
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   He wasn't better before?
 Q. Obviously he had time to heal up.
 PATRICK BEVERLEY:   He looked real good to me.
 Thank you, guys.  Have a great day.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT