NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2015
Patrick Beverley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   As part of this year's Taco Bell Skills Challenge, four lucky teens were paired with tonight's participants through the Taco Bell Foundation for Teens.   $120,000 was donated to Local Boys and Girls Clubs in support of educational scholarships and team empowerment.   Each team who participated in the challenge received educational scholarships of $10,000.   While tonight's winner, Tom Palmerson, received a scholarship of $30,000.   If you would like Patrick just talk about tonight's ‑‑  
PATRICK BEVERLEY:   Definitely blessed to be here.   Blessed to be in this position.   Blessed to even be in the NBA, coming from a humble beginnings.   Getting to the NBA now, replacing someone and getting a chance to display my talents out here and winning it; helping a young kid like this for school and everything, it's, you know, a big testimony‑‑ a bit humbled about it and definitely appreciate about it.   
   
 Q.   Pat, they introduced you, they talked about your defense.   When you won, Ernie Johnson said you're an irritant.   To win an event based on skills, do you feel like you showed something beyond defense and being an irritant and whatever else they might say?   
PATRICK BEVERLEY:   I'll say a little bit.   Most of all I came out here to have fun.   I hope Coach McHale is watching, and maybe I can get some plays now (laughing).   
On our team James has the ball a lot, which is fine.   He is the best player in the NBA right now.   He's our MVP.   So on a setting like this, just by myself I was able to display my skills and some things that some people have never seen before.   
   
 Q.   You won it because you made the three both times, and your job is often to be the spot‑up shooter.   Did that prepare you at all to be a spot‑up shooter tonight?   
PATRICK BEVERLEY:   It wasn't really a spot‑up because I had to go off the dribble.   I got on my feet, the passes didn't go through, but I made all the shots.   
This weekend has been fun for me.   I've been truly blessed this short time in my NBA career.   I'm just happy to be here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT