NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 31, 2010
Ian Laperriere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Lappy, with Carcillo coming back in --
 IAN LAPERRIERE: Is he? 

 Q. What do you guys need from him --
 IAN LAPERRIERE: It was a secret. 

 Q. What do you guys need from him, and what's he going to bring you tonight? 
 IAN LAPERRIERE: Daniel is going to bring what Daniel does best. He brings intensity. And he's got more than that. He has skill. He showed the hockey world he can be a player too. He's going to bring some intensity if he's in. 

 Q. Lappy, how are the Finals different? How is the whole atmosphere different? And how do you -- you're going through this for the first time. How do you talk to teammates about how to handle what is different? 
 IAN LAPERRIERE: Well, I think the big difference is you guys. There's a lot more media attention. There's only two teams left. Comes down to a hockey game. You need to win four out of seven. That's what you try to tell your younger teammates, that it's still hockey. We need to go play out there and play our best and win games. 
 It doesn't matter -- the first day was surreal, all the distraction, the press conference and everything, even for me it was like, wow, that's impressive, but right now it's pretty much let's play hockey. 

 Q. Ian, we don't obviously get to see you guys behind closed doors and maybe when you're out for team dinners. Can you describe the mood of the team and the confidence level going into tonight? 
 IAN LAPERRIERE: Very confident. We're relaxed. There's no panic, nothing. We know we made mistakes. That's what cost us the first game; and we did a lot of good things and we did a lot of bad things. That's why we came on the wrong side of the game last game. Everybody is pretty relaxed and just enjoying our free time in Chicago, I guess. 

 Q. Lappy, I know some of your players weren't real thrilled with Burish's hit on Krajicek. Is that something that gets answered for tonight given the stakes? 
 IAN LAPERRIERE: No, it's the Playoffs. You have to suck it up, and there's always next year. I'm not saying that I'm going to do anything next year, but it's the Playoffs. You just can't worry about what happened last game, because it might cost you two minutes or four minutes and you might lose a game because of it. 
 I didn't see the hit. We talked about it at dinner last night. I guess it was really dirty. It's -- the league should take care of that, but that's another story. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT