NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 22, 2010
Ian Laperriere
Michael Leighton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Michael, you guys talked about coming back and learning your lesson. How good does it feel that you guys learned your lesson and were able to bounce back today?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: It feels good, obviously. But I think we had confidence, and we were obviously disappointed with that last loss, and we didn't want to feel that way again. We knew this was a real big game for us. Obviously, if they win, we're 2?2 going back home. So this was a good boost for us, we definitely showed up to play tonight right from the start.  
  
  Q. Michael, to have another shutout, three and four games, for yourself it was relatively easy except for that flurry. What were your thoughts about the shutout and getting another run going?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Well, obviously it's nice any time you get a shutout. But I'm not really concerned about shutouts right now. I'm concerned about winning. Tonight that's not really even on my mind about the shutout. If we would have won 5?1, I would have been just as happy. We're looking at the next game. I'm not even thinking about that going into that game, and hopefully we play a similar game as we did tonight.  
  
  Q. There were some reports, TV reports, there was sand in front of your locker room and it gave you a hard time skating. Any truth to that?  
 IAN LAPERRIERE: What?  
  
  Q. Was there sand in front of the entrance of the locker room that was getting caught in your skates?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Today? Not that I know of, no.  
  
  Q. TV, blame TV.  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Pretty dirty.  
  
  Q. Ian, first of all, how do you feel right now? And secondly, was it important to you to get into the mix of this game right away? You got that roughing minor early on, and it seemed like you were really getting into the game with your hitting and the way you play?  
 IAN LAPERRIERE: Yeah, if I don't play that way, I'm not effective for my team. That first penalty, that roughing, I took a couple punches to the face, and that kind of got me going. I knew I could take a hit. I won't lie to anybody. I was nervous all night last night, and today just to take that first hit, and I did, and I got bumped around like I usually do.  
 That's what the neurologists told me, all four of them, and that's why I'm here tonight. I want to emphasize that. If there was a little chance that I was going to get hurt, you know, you always take a chance when you go out there. But if I was more at risk than before my injury, I wouldn't be out there.  
 I said that before, when I got injured. I'm a family guy. I've got two kids at home. I've got a wife. I've got to think about that. I didn't want to be selfish, and all four of them were 100% sure that I wasn't. That doesn't mean I won't get hit, but I wasn't more at risk than before. And that's why I made my decision to come back. That's it.  
  
  Q. How are you feeling now?  
 IAN LAPERRIERE: Tired. I'm tired. But I'm excited. I had fun out there, back with my teammates. I said that before. Hockey's my passion, but I've got to think about my family, that's my life. It was just great to be with the boys for a big win.  
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about the defense and everyone playing in front of you tonight. With all the blocked shots that they had, how big of a help is that to play a good game that you did play?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Well, obviously that was one of our main goals was to play better defensively. We definitely did that. I don't know how many times they came down the wing trying to fire pucks at me, and we had their "D" men who stuck their stick out and it went up in the crowds.  
 We talked right before the game, and said we want to block as many shots and stop them charging the net, and we definitely did that. Our "D" did a great job doing that, and our forwards at the point were doing a good job blocking shots too.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the impact of Ian coming back and, obviously, Jeff Carter too?  
 IAN LAPERRIERE: Hold on. Let me get some cash (laughing).  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Obviously, both those players are impact players. They were a big part of where we are today and during the season. You know, to have them both back at the same time was a good confidence booster to us; and both of them played great tonight. For being off so long, they both jumped right in the lineup and did what they've been doing all year.  
 We felt more confident with them in the lineup, and they did great for us tonight.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT