VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 21, 2006
Bob Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Thank you Bob for joining us for a few minutes here at the Media Center at the Valero Texas Open.

Good start to the week.  Five birdies, no bogeys.  Low round the year.  Must be feeling pretty good.
BOB BURNS:  Absolutely.  Not something I really expected but it's nice to come out here and play in some good weather and some bermuda grass, probably one of my favorite turfs to play on.

That had a little difference but to play as clean around as I did with only five birdies and no bogeys, that's a treat.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Haven't played a whole lot this here at least on the Tour.  What's been going on with you?
BOB BURNS:  Haven't been all that interested, to be honest.  I'm starting to get a little more motivation back to play and compete.

But as of a couple, two, three week ago, even a month ago, I didn't really feel like competing very much.  Enjoy a few rounds at home but didn't really enjoy being on the road.
Q.  What's going on at home to keep you there?
BOB BURNS:  Well, you know, great wife, two little kids, 3 and 1.  There's a lot of things going on.  There's always something going on.
Q.  You played well here before.  I think you had a Top 10 finish four, five years ago.
BOB BURNS:  That sounds about right.
Q.  I'm guessing the tournament was here at that time.  It's a natural to come back to a place where you played well before.  You mentioned bermuda.
BOB BURNS:  I love the turf.  This golf course is hit and miss for a lot of guys.  I played it enough now to kind of enjoy it.  It took awhile to get broken in for the tournament.

Like I said, the conditions were very nice out there.  The wind is picking up but it was a favorable wind for the 9 that I was finishing on today.
Q.  Didn't get a chance to look at your scorecard.  What were your better holes out there?
BOB BURNS:  I birdied
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Let's go through the birdies.  You started on the front.  Birdied 5.
BOB BURNS:  5 I made about a 25 footer for birdie and then on 6 the par 3 I made 15 footer for birdie.  Those are the two kind of putts you're not counting on making.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  What club did you use on 6?
BOB BURNS:  The 8 iron.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Birdied 11.
BOB BURNS:  3 wood and lob wedge to about six feet, five, six feet.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  15?
BOB BURNS:  Driver and a wedge to about eight or nine feet.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  And then 17?
BOB BURNS:  5 iron and another long putt, about 25 feet, probably.
Q.  Putter obviously was working.
BOB BURNS:  It was working.  I had a lot of opportunities today.  I think I only missed two greens in regulation so that's a good stat to be high in, I think.  The putter will follow.
Q.  Not playing as much, if things continue to go well, Saturday, Sunday, you're right there.  How do you feel about all this?  Maybe not battle tested.
BOB BURNS:  Well, we're not there yet, you know.  There's no saying that 5 under is going to be the first round lead.  It's just a good start.  If I'm there on Saturday or Sunday, I'm going to be enjoying it and trying to compete for the tournament.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Anymore questions?  Thank you.
BOB BURNS:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT