BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2004
Bob Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOB BURNS:  Started on hole No.  10.  11, I made a birdie, hit 8 iron about 20 feet past the hole to the left.

15, drove it in, I guess, the green side rough left of the hole and managed to get it up and down, made about a ten foot putt.

No.  1, I drove it down the right side, hit the cart path and rolled down in the rough pretty close to the green, nearly 100 yards or so, hit pitching wedge about 30 feet and made that long putt.

6, the par 5, driver, 3 iron and a pitching wedge to about 15 feet.

No.  9, a 3 wood and a sand wedge to about seven feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  Looking at your season record, it's been a little bit of a struggle, especially recently.  Hopefully you found something today; it looks like that may have turned things around.
BOB BURNS:  I've been real up and down all year.  The tournaments I've played well in, I've played very well.  Tournaments I've missed the cut or finished down near the bottom, I just didn't play very good, hung on or didn't hang on to miss the cut by a couple shots.

It's been a weird year.  I've had a lot going on.  First year with a new baby.  He's 14 months old now and that's a blast, so I've been pretty distracted with that, but I can't use that as an excuse.

You know, it's just golf.  It's a game we play to earn a living.  Sometimes we do it better and sometimes we don't.
Q.   Has there been any part of your game that's been particularly troublesome, that has got you troubled most of the year?
BOB BURNS:  You know, it's been a flare up of everything, flat tire, blown gasket, steering mechanism.  It's been a little bit of everything.
Q.   Well, this is the Buick.
BOB BURNS:  It's been a little bit of everything, sometimes driver, sometimes iron, sometimes     in the middle of the year I couldn't get a ball up and down out of a bunker.  I putted great.  In March and April, I hit it well in April and some of March.  It's just been up     I haven't been very consistent.  Everything has been a little bit off.  I haven't really had too many weeks where I felt everything was clicking on all cylinders.
Q.   Your one Top 10s with at the players which was a pretty demanding place and yet you've struggled other weeks.
BOB BURNS:  Right.  That week I hit it very well and managed my game very well, didn't miss it in the horrific places that you can at the TPC and I putted pretty well, so that's a pretty good combination for that golf course.
Q.   How were the conditions out there this afternoon, Bob?  Getting a little dryer from this morning?
BOB BURNS:  The greens were definitely getting firmer.  There was a lot more release on your approach shots.  We thought it was going to be a little tougher when we first started because the wind was up, but it died a little bit on our back nine.
Q.   You're kind of ho humming the 65.  Was it kind of a ho hum as 65s go?  No miracle shots, no
BOB BURNS:  No real miracle shots, nothing flashy, just five birdies.  I mean, that's flashy on the score card, but as far as doing it, it wasn't real flashy.  I didn't do anything terrible and I recovered from the few fairways that I missed.  I guess I missed four or five greens today and I got all of them up and down, so I had a pretty nice, well rounded day to go bogeyless and make five birdies.
Q.   You mentioned the drive on 1 you hit the cart path.  Did you feel some good fortune that it didn't go up on the bank?
BOB BURNS:  Yeah, sure.  It could have easily kicked up to the right and have been in the trees and I wouldn't have had a real straight line to the green.  Fortunately it stayed left and just down in the rough by the cart path and I had a straight shot toward the green.  I mean, that's a two shot swing there, really, at least one and a half, from making birdie to bogey.
Q.   How about expectations for yourself?  You mentioned it's been up and down.  Before this week were you in one of those down spells?  With that, what are your expectations this week?  What do you want to do out here?
BOB BURNS:  I think in the month of May and part of June, I missed five or six straight cuts, and since then, I came back and made a cut, missed a cut, had a week off, made a cut, missed a cut, had two weeks off, and I'm here.  I'm comfortable with where I am.  I just tried to really manage my game today and watch some little things.  Fortunately it panned out.  It doesn't always work that way, but today it did.
Q.   Are the wife and the little one out this week?
BOB BURNS:  Nope.  I'm getting a lot of sleep.
Q.   A little peace and quiet?
BOB BURNS:  He's a good sleeper but you still have to wake up and feed him.  I've gotten a lot of sleep this week.
Q.   Have they been out most of the summer?
BOB BURNS:  Probably half the time, yeah.  We enjoy being out together.
Q.   Is there any correlation between how you've played and whether he's been here or not?
BOB BURNS:  Not really.  They were there at the players championship and in New Orleans, a couple of my good finishes, so it's irrelevant, I think.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT