PEGASUS WORLD CUP INVITATIONAL
January 26, 2019
William K. Warren, Jr.
Suzanne Warren
Javier Castellano
Mike McCarthy
William Lawrence
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JASON BLEWITT: Thank you for coming to our 2019 Pegasus World Cup post-race draw.  So happy to have the winning connections of the Pegasus Dirt and the Pegasus Dirt.  My name is James lieutenant, one of the racing analysts here at Gulfstream, and joined by my cohost, Acacia Courtney.   
ACACIA COURTNEY: Thank you, Jason.  I want to say thank you to all of you who supported Pegasus World Cup today.  I think that it's fair to say we saw some incredible performances by our equine athletes, and we truly thank each and every one of our connections for participating, as well.   
We'll have a chance to open the floor for some Q&A at the end, but first and foremost do want to get a couple of quick reactions from some of the owners of our winners here in the Pegasus World Cup.  Who wants to go first?   
JASON BLEWITT: How about Mr. William K. Warren, Jr.?   
WILLIAM K. WARREN, JR.: Explosive and impactive, just so thrilled.  I was so worried when we came down here on the Monday.  I didn't get a wink of sleep on Monday night or Tuesday night because my great trainer over there, Michael McCarthy, and I have a relationship that I tell him I'm the coach and he's the quarterback, and really, he changes the play every day.  But I was just plotting the race in my own mind, and I had not anticipated this very wet weather and we didn't know whether or not City of Light could run in this mud.   
And it was just so thrilling to watch Javier ride a masterful race.  And we talked about it before he got on the horse, and he knew exactly what he wanted to do, and he executed the plan beautifully.   
I'm just filled with emotion for my trainer, Michael McCarthy, and for Javier.  They got us here and I love them both.   
JASON BLEWITT: Sounds great.   
We also have owner, Bill Lawrence, who owns part of Bricks and Mortar, along with Klaravich Stables.   
Bill, how about a reaction from that amazing turf race today?   
WILLIAM H. LAWRENCE: It was electric.  First of all, I thank, Seth.  We've own a lot of horses together and the fact that we have five- and six-year-old horses running big races is a testament to Chad Brown.  He took a horse off a 380-day layoff, Bricks and Mortar, and he got the horse back in the second race.  He was loaded and he was as confident as I trainer could be.  There was no trainer speak about, this could happen or that.   
I think that he also asked me to say he went to check on a horse from the other race, and he couldn't make it.  So he asked me to come over, so I just ran over in the rain.   
And I want to thank Irad.  It was a really smart ride.  Kind of made that middle move and went in front of him.  A couple -- I have a lot of friends here.  I'll be up at the party with you in a few minutes -- I'll be right back.   
And they said, "What's he doing?  *he's going backwards."   
I said, "He's winning the race."   
And he said, "How do you know?"   
I said, "Because I've been lucky."  I grew up watching races at Saratoga.  I've been going to the track 45 years and owned horses 15 years.  You watch enough races, you can know what the guy's doing.   
Congrats to the other owners, trainers, trainers, and my man, Javier -- I don't know everybody here, but Javi won a little race called Preakness for us.  We made a bet long ago that if we had never won the Derby; we would win it together, but he won a Preakness, so we said, that would be good and kind of -- the bet off.   
I'm just happy, lucky.  There's not a lot of races -- it's not even just the money.  It's just a big race.  It's a big, tough race.  And the way this horse just really ran big today, to come back after two injuries that we had, it's electric.   
It's why we're in the game because there's a lot of tough games, and that other race didn't go so well for us.  It was the old thrill of victory, agony of defeat, open up to Sports Illustrated (laughter).   
But it was great day, thank you again to everybody who put on the race and all the people who work hard, the trainers and all the staff, that's what makes it go.  We just put the money up and get to come and have a few hours of fun.   
JASON BLEWITT: We also have trainer, Mike McCarthy, in attendance.  Won the Pegasus Dirt with City of Light, who was just awesome.   
Mike, how are you feeling right now?   
MIKE McCARTHY: Thanks.  I was quietly confident all week the horse would run well.  We had followed the same routine we did at Churchill Downs when he won the Breeders' Cup dirt mile.  I was very pleased the way he worked here last Saturday.  We kind of worked up a day, trying to beat the rain.  Seemed to work out.   
I thought Javier worked him wonderfully.  Javier in seemed very pleased.  Just hoping to get to here today in one piece and worked out that way.   
Drawing down in the 3-hole, drawing down in the side hole, goes inside, his speed -- Javier was able to get up to speed and was able to get him outside going to the mile pole and turn up the back side; whether he ran first or last, we had no excuses from there.  He was in perfect position.   
Can't thank Javier in enough for having the confidence to take Audible to ride this horse.  Says a lot about the kind of person he is, and can't thank him enough.   
And I'd also like to thank the family sitting to the right of me.   
JASON BLEWITT: Well, a great job all around, and Javier --   
MIKE McCARTHY: I'm not done.  (Laughter).   
They have done a lot for me personally.  They have done a lot for my family.  To come here for a day like today, I thought the Breeders' Cup was, as I said, almost like out of body.   
Today was, I don't know -- I'm very grateful.  Now I'm done.  Now I'm done.   
ACACIA COURTNEY: I was waiting to make sure.  Thank you.   
We also have winning jockey Javier Castellano.  Javier, when you first came in, you compared this horse in his second gear to Ghostzapper.  Tell us about that.   
JAVIER CASTELLANO: The way he did it today, it really was, you know, I think you don't see too many horses, he got the speed and he got the balance and he got the dimension.   
I think the horse, he did everything today.  I think basically, I think I enjoyed the ride.  I'll be honest with you.  I think anybody could have rode the horse.  I think I give all the credit to Mike McCarthy to try to put everything together for this race, and especially the opportunity, Mr. Warren and Mrs. Warren they give me to pick the jockey and to perform in the Breeders' Cup and now in the Pegasus World Cup.  I think I'm very fortunate to be in this spot and I think I'm very grateful.   
The horse, he did everything.  I think he's an amazing horse.  We have very lucky to drew the good post today, and the track -- speed a little bit today.  I think we -- I mean, the way he broke out of the gate, he run well out of the gate.  I tried to get in my position at first down and see how it develop, the race.   
I think he's an amazing horse.  I think I'm very lucky.  I thank God I had the opportunity to ride the horse.   
JASON BLEWITT: We'd like to open up questions to members of the media if anybody has any questions.   
WILLIAM K. WARREN, JR.: I have something I want -- first of all, I want to congratulate the turf winner.  That was a great win for you, sir, and it shows your dedication to this great sport and congratulations.   
On Friday, yesterday, it was a beautiful day, and looking over the form, I said, this is really going to be a tough race, a really tough race.   
Then today when it rained, I thought, oh, my gosh, I don't think we're going to do very good in this mud.  But I was really worried.  But I want to say one thing:  Coming down the steps, the first person that shook my hand was John Sadler, and I think John is a class act, wonderful man.  He's a great trainer, and I want to compliment all of the others who were in the race today for their entering the race and their great trip in the race, and they were just -- they are great owners to be here today, and my hat's off to all of those that we had to compete against today.  Thank you.   
WILLIAM H. LAWRENCE: Thank you, and hats off to you for winning the big race.  We don't get races like this often.   
I think anybody that puts money in this sport, we all know we're probably one-third stupid, one-third optimistic and one-third crazy, and the rest of it, maybe there's one percent we're good dreamers and hopeful.  We're very much optimists, for sure.   
I want to thank one other person who didn't want to come over because she didn't want to walk in the rain, my wife, for everything.  And for letting me spend a lot of money on horses, which is not necessarily the smarter things I've done.   
Luckily I've been smart enough to have some other things that I've done that are more profitable, or I would be living in a double-wide and walking home.   
WILLIAM K. WARREN, JR.: My wife wants me to mention one more thing.   
You know, all of us that own horses are trying to figure it out.  Trying to come up with an edge or come up with an idea of success, and luck is used a lot in this business.  I'm very blessed to have had two great parents because first of all, they had daughter No. 1, they had daughter No. 2, and they had daughter No. 3, and daughter No. 4, daughter No. 5, daughter No. 6, and my mother didn't stop (Laughter).  That's the only reason I'm here today (Laughter).   
JASON BLEWITT: Any questions from the media?  We'd like to open up the floor here.   
 Q.  Javier, could you take us through the trip?  
JAVIER CASTELLANO: We talk about a little bit about how we can perform today, the horse, and Michael McCarthy, Mr. Warren, we agree a little bit.  I try to use the horse a little bit out of the gate and get a position because we had short term and you have to use a good spot.   
The way he planned the track, you had to get a good position, and you've got the speed, let the horse take advantage a little bit enough.  First of all, I think he got lucky the way he drew the course.  I could have be way off-side.  I could have been way outside.  Could have be we have to use a little like Patternrecognition.  Fortunately he got that spot but everything worked out great.   
Using my horse enough a little bit to get my position, let him give me a little break.  The horse, he doing really well on the back side.  The way he could get the rhythm, the momentum, and I think he loved the way he performed on a sloppy track.  It's just like a little kid in the play yard, you know, play because they splash the puddle and keep going and keep going, good rhythm, good comfortable rhythm.  I say, I think I'm doing well right now so far, I'm doing good (Laughter).   
I get more excited but turn, just very focus to give a little break the horse, not overdo it, not overuse him a little bit because believe it or not, mile and a quarter, mile and an eighth, you have to wait, save some horses till the end.   
But the way he did, he had another gear.  I think we asked a little bit two and a fourth quarter (ph), he explode again, he took off again.  What a feeling you feel in that moment, the horse, he took off again, that's the reason I make a little comment before.   
I feel like Ghostzapper in 2014 he won the Breeders' Cup Classic, he went to the lane and just really galloping nice and easy, and when you ask, he took off again, that's amazing.   
 Q.  I'm from Ecuador.  Your fans from Ecuador say congratulations.  
JAVIER CASTELLANO: Thank you for the support, all the Spanish community, and all my fans, they follow the horses and thank you for the support.  We are South Florida.  We have a lot of people all over the place.  Thinking of the manager, Mr. Ritvo, all his group, Belinda Stronach, and Joe Campbell, Billy Badgett they put a lot of effort to put everybody together like the Clásico del Caribe.  They put all Spanish all over the place, all over the country to put in great performance for all of the fans and hold races.  Thanks.   
 Q.  This victory, I sense you were geared up for the hunt.  At the break, he was looking for a spot on the center of the track and you saw the horse and you understand that it was like, I don't know, okay, you want to take the lead -- I can go there?  
JAVIER CASTELLANO: Yeah, absolutely, I think Patternrecognition, he had to be in the lead.  He's that kind of course.  He loves to perform.  He loves to be in the lead.  I think on the whole he doesn't like to come behind.   
Unfortunately we had to lose a little bit to get the lead.  It worked out perfect for us because our horse is a special horse, he don't have to be in the lead.  He can go a little off the pace, or if Patternrecognition should be in the race, it would have dictated the race and been wire-to-wire.   
But it worked out perfect because I'm looking for a little bit of target just to let him rest a little bit and he workout the dimension when we make that move and he stepped up.  I think that's the key to win the race.   
 Q.  When a horse is able to maneuver --  
JAVIER CASTELLANO: You have to adjust a little bit with the jockey, you ride every single day, and you have to try to be perfect when you make that decision.  Sometimes, believe me, sometimes you make wrong decision, too, don't get me wrong, but I think the key in the big race is that you have to be focused and you have to study a little bit, not even the horse; the jockey, too, also, the way he performs.  And of course, the track, too.  The track, the jockey, the horse, you put it together and try to do the homework to have the best result.   
 Q.  Do you have some words for people in Venezuela?  
JAVIER CASTELLANO: Yeah, I think a word for that, very lucky.  I'm proud to where I come from, from Venezuela.  I feel the same pain.  I think everybody knows the news about Venezuela, struggle a little bit.   
Unfortunately our president we had tried to be dictate and control everything and unfortunately those people sacrificed a little about.  I just pray everything workout to my country and I wish you all the best.   
 Q.  For Michael McCarthy, can you talk about what City of Light has meant to your career?  
MIKE McCARTHY: Still kind of sinking in.   
Obviously, you know, we've been in business five years, and started with one horse.  To have a horse like this come into your life -- I can't tell -- honestly, there's not words.  I can't describe it.  I can't describe the emotion that goes along with something like this.   
Winning a Breeders' Cup was incredibly special.  To be able to go ahead and follow it up with something like this, don't know if it will ever happen again.  If it doesn't, I'm probably okay with it (Laughter).   
But at least it happened.  I like that Vin Scully line, "Don't be sad that it's over.  Be glad that it happened," I believe, something like that.  I'm very glad that it happened.  A horse like this, a once-in-a-lifetime horse.   
I believe Javier said today, "I don't think there's a horse in the world that could have beat him today" and I've said that all along, emphatically.  I thought he was -- he's a gift, just a gift to everybody, everybody.  Everybody that touches him, everybody that walks him, everybody that feeds him, everybody that bathes him, I wish I had a better way with words but I'm pretty speechless right now.   
JASON BLEWITT: Pretty understandable.  Any other questions?   
 Q.  Mr. and Mrs. Warren, can you talk a little bit about your relationship with Michael and the decision to send him horses?  He's obviously very complimentary I of you.  What did you see in him to give him a horse like this?  
WILLIAM K. WARREN, JR.: Primarily that he was changed by Todd Pletcher, and he had served a lot of time with Todd.  Learned a lot.   
He's very much a detail man.  He's very dough vetted to each of his horses and that means a lot to me.  He's not out trying to get 150 or 200 horses.  He wants to get horses that he feels he can make champions, and that's what attracted me to him.   
I think he's a man of great character.  He makes good decisions, which I need because sometimes I have some pretty wild ideas (Laughter).  I won't go into those (Laughter).   
MIKE McCARTHY: I promise you, he does.  (Laughter).   
WILLIAM K. WARREN, JR.: But we feel like we're family.  We're very close to him.   
And I wanted to add to this gentleman's question of what it's meant to our family.  It's brought our family together more, and to the extent that my son, John Kelly Christopher Warren on the end, and Andrew Nathaniel Warren, want to get in the horse racing business.   
So they have gotten some shares in City of Light, and I never thought they would have an interest in this, and so they are sort of part of our traveling team, and then my very able executive assistant, Jennifer Morgan, handles everything so professionally and beautifully, that we are just a well-oiled team that works together, has fun together, enjoys.  We've been out every night for dinner together, and it's been a great pleasure and a great honor to be with Michael McCarthy's family.   
SUZANNE WARREN: I'd like to say something, too.  Racing has been just a joy for our whole family.  Our family loves to compete.  John Kelly is an Ironman and successfully competed in Hawai'i.  Andrew is a top tennis player.   
We compete at everything we do:  Scrabble, gin, poker, you name it.  I've had the Scrabble board turned over on me, but it's a way to compete that is different from golf or tennis or any of the other things we would do at a time in our life, and it does bring our friends and family together.   
We load up a plane.  We virtually go to every race there is, and the way you can analyze a race and predict how it's going to be is a good thing for your mind, I think.   
So it's just been really, really a wonderful experience.  Bill got us into it.  Michael picked this horse, and he's a good picker.  We're afraid he's going to get really busy now but we're going to keep him busy, anyway.  So they have got a couple new horses up-and-coming.   
WILLIAM H. LAWRENCE: I think one of the things maybe everybody doesn't know that's great about horse racing is because maybe you all know that we're doing something that's very difficult to be good at, we want to win before races.   
There are several people, I said, run a strong second today and do good.  One guy came up to me and said, "Dead Heat for first," and I said I liked it but it's 3 million for first and 1.2 million for second -- so run a good, strong second.  It's a little different race.   
But I haven't even gotten back to any of my friends, I've only texted back Seth and Chad, but I checked in my own.  I have 20 other owners, some that ran in the race, some that didn't, and the nice thing is, they know when you lose, you know, you don't get one text.  Everybody knows, there's just nothing you can say because we need a little time.   
My wife calls -- people didn't know it, like down here they say, I don't come to Gulfstream.  I've run a lot of races, like 500, 600 races, probably 50 here; I've never been in the winner's circle.   
So the guy that buys some of my horses, Pete Bradley's daughter, said, "Are you going to go?"   
I came down for a race two weeks ago, ran fourth, and I said, "I'm guess I'm going to win a $6 million race or $7 million race."   
I hope I have a horse in next year, but literally I don't.  Mike Propolli (ph) told me once the reason he won the title at Saratoga, he went 0-for-52 one year at Saratoga and he was embarrassed.   
So he said, "I'm going to claim horses, buy horses, do everything," because it's awful when you're losing and your friends come they don't know what to say.   
My wife explains it different.  We have a house in Jupiter.  She says, I can't go on the track because he's swearing for the whole 75-minute drive.  I thought -- I did swear the last two minutes once -- but said no, you got in and you kicked the garage door and why am I in this bleeping dumb sport.   
It's just hard when you lose, but when you win, the people that compete against you, the other owners, really know how big.   
And I whispered to Mike, who I just met, I said, "That's why we do it."  We -- we don't -- now you're getting me emotional.  We just -- it's hard to describe what it is.  But you know, for me, I'm older than some of these guys.  You know, some of the things I did, basketball and golf, I've got a few trophies but I ain't winning many more.  You just get to have a day that's better.   
I think I whispered to Mike, "It's better than you can ever dream about."  And to my good friend, Javi, we've been good friends a long time.  Thank you for kicking the (bleep) out of me in the dirt race today as opposed to last year when some horse named Catholic Boy circled me twice for some races, and he's a good friend.  He comes up and says sorry.   
I go, "What are you sorry for?  Thank you for saying sorry."  Bob LaPenta didn't.  He high-fived me and he said, "I kicked your ass."  Later I sent him a thanks, congrats to him and everything.   
For one of the owners of Yoshida that knows who he is, you owe me some money because we bet head-up, but can keep the money so we're good.   
But it really is a different kind of sport where the owners know the pain.  The trainers know the pain but the wins are so good, and your friends and the other owners know how good the day is.   
So anybody that's in town, if I haven't gotten on the phone, text me later.  We'll get going later and we'll tear it up.  We'll have fun.   
JASON BLEWITT: I do want to thank everybody for coming, a very classy Winner's Circle up here on the podium.  Congratulations to everybody, Pegasus Dirt, Pegasus Turf.  Want to thank the fans, the horses and yeah, we're running 12 races tomorrow here at Gulfstream pork.  First race post is about noon so we'll see you then.  11:45, actually.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT