PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
May 25, 2013
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right, Julieta, a nice round today, 3‑under par, in the 12‑hole layout.   If you would, just talk about your day.  
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, I had a really good day.   I was a little off.   It was a little windier than yesterday, so it took me a couple of holes to get my ball striking to where I like it, but after that I managed to make a few putts, and just played steady golf.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about the state of your game, how you feel you're playing this year.  
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, this year it was a different year.   I was injured for the beginning of the year, so I was just kind of trying to play through it.   And I'm finally feeling healthy and I'm going full at it, so I just feel like everything is coming together now, so it's good timing.  
   
 Q.   What was the injury?  
JULIETA GRANADA:   Just left hip was hurting.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about this week.   It's been a lot different than A normal tournament week.   It's been a different format based on the rain.   Has it been tough to wrap your head around coming to the course to play a 12‑hole round?  
JULIETA GRANADA:   You know, I love being here in the Bahamas, first of all.   I think the views are incredible.   So you know, we could play three holes and go to the beach.   I'm cool.   No, I'm kidding.  
But no, it was different knowing that it was a 12‑hole format, but I think once you're on the course, it doesn't really matter where you stop.   If you have a birdie chance you better make it.   So once you're on the course it's the same, but obviously 12 is a little less than usual.  
   
 Q.   Last one.   How does it feel to be in the hunt for a victory tomorrow?  
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, it feels good.   You know, I'm enjoying this week.   I'm enjoying everything about it.   So hopefully tomorrow will be something special.  
   
 Q.   Thank you very much.  
JULIETA GRANADA:   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT