OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 8, 2010
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A 69 today, how satisfied are you with your performance? 
 JULIETA GRANADA: Very satisfied. I started really good, the first three holes I started 2-under and I was like, all right. But then because of the jet-lag I went on a down and I wanted to sleep. It was good that I kept eating and drinking and then in the back nine, my body was cooperating with me, so that was nice.

 Q. And how are you feeling now?
 JULIETA GRANADA: I'm feeling good. I'll probably crash in a couple minutes, but I'm happy with the round. I stayed tough today. It was just mentally so tiring. But I'm happy.

 Q. It's been a hectic couple of weeks for you, you've been in Florida, did well there and now in Dubai. So what are your hopes here for the tournament?
 JULIETA GRANADA: Well I've been playing well the last couple months, so I just want to continue playing consistently good, and just keep shooting under par. And who knows what will happen Sunday. 
 But right now, I'm feeling very good with my game.

 Q. Anything that's working particularly well for you?
 JULIETA GRANADA: You know, today I putted well, and the shots that I hit good, I made the putts, so it's just a little bit of both, a little bit of the combination. So, I'm happy.

 Q. Just to follow up, in terms of the round today, what were the high points? Were there some holes that you really look back on and were happy with the birdies, or maybe talk a little bit about the round itself?
 JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, I birdied 2 and 3 and then I bogeyed 4 and 25. So you know, and then I bogeyed 9. I 3-putted. 
 Then the back nine, I just said, you know, let's just keep hitting greens, let's hit more greens on the back nine and maybe the putts will drop. And I birdied 11 and then I birdied 15, 16 and 17. So I just gave myself more chances on the back nine and therefore my putts could work for me.

 Q. With three birdies on the back nine, that must have felt good?
 JULIETA GRANADA: It felt great. I was hoping for four in a row. It felt really good.

 Q. Your thoughts on the course, how it played today. 
 JULIETA GRANADA: Well, you know, it played different than last year. It's much softer with the drives and the second shots. So it took a little bit of adjusting for my mind. Last year it played so dry, sort of visualizing that. It took me a couple of holes to figure out that I could actually hit more at the pins and that the ball will stop. 

 Q. What do you think will be the key to winning here? 
 JULIETA GRANADA: It's a tough course. You have to be on with everything. You can't hide it out here. So you have to be driving it well. And you have to make some putts. You know, the greens are rolling perfect, so as long as you get a good read, you know, people are going to be making lots of putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT