LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 3, 2010
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you have a handle on the greens better than the others? 
 JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, I've been putting really well. I've been reading the greens really well. It's all about the pace then. 
 I've been practicing a lot on my putting and full swing, and it's nice to have it all together in one day, you know. 

 Q. The last hole, it was a good bogey. 
 JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, it was. It was a good drive, just probably the wrong club or something, and I chunked the second, I chunked the third. I thought it was an okay chip, but you know, these greens, they just take the ball and you can't stop it. Then I made a really good putt. 
 I was happy with a bogey there. 

 Q. About 12 feet on the putt?
 JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, it was like 15 feet. It was a long one.

 Q. Were you in the bunker twice?
 JULIETA GRANADA: Twice, yeah. I was hanging out on the beach. 

 Q. Who are you working with now; Gary?
 JULIETA GRANADA: I'm not working with Gary. 

 Q. Who do you work with now?
 JULIETA GRANADA: I'm working with Sean Foley. So I've been fortunate to start working with him about three months ago. So it's been going really well.

 Q. What has he done to help you get your game on track? 
 JULIETA GRANADA: Well, you know, everything that I have sort of been trying not to do my whole life, he tells me to go ahead and do it. So it's kind of fun for me. 

 Q. Like what? 
 JULIETA GRANADA: His whole system is what I wanted to do, you know, like my body just wants to do that. So it's nice to just let it loose. I've been striking it way better. The last three months have been amazing. I mean, it was a complete turnaround. So, I'm really happy. 

 Q. Was it something that changed very quickly, because Sean was encouraging you to go with what your body was feeling, or did the ball-striking take time to put together? 
 JULIETA GRANADA: It was amazing. I played Arkansas, the first tournament after seeing him, and I shoot 76-66. So then, you know, I figure it was pretty good. 
 What he did is explained to me the golf swing and what I was trying to do and what he wanted me to do. You know, just kind of clicked when you have an understanding about what you need to do.

 Q. Is there anything that you're doing similar to what you were doing when you won this tournament in '06 or when you won the Juniors or anything that you've gone back to? 
 JULIETA GRANADA: Nothing. It's just a completely different system. 
 You know, I've been happy. I've been getting my ball-striking really well. I've been just happy. I mean, it was amazing. I don't even know how to explain it, because it was just like, instant. 

 Q. And what made you choose Sean Foley?
 JULIETA GRANADA: I actually was talking to Sarah Jane Smith and she told me about him and she's been playing really well. She's been shooting really low rounds throughout the season. 
 So I was working really hard and my game wasn't improving, so I figured, give him a try. He had time for me. It was like e-mailed him the week of The PGA Championship and he e-mailed me back, and I was like, "Yes!" 

 Q. Just talk about your round and your position right now. 
 JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, I've been hitting it really well today it seems like, because the course was playing longer in the morning and it was hard to stop it on the greens in the beginning. It took me a little time to adjust. But I've been reading the greens really well and my speed has been on. That was it. I've been making putts and hitting it pretty close or on the green. 

 Q. You play and practice out here on off-weeks? 
 JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, I've been here for like three months. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT