CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2007
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  You just had a great round.  Obviously you had a good long putt on 18.  It got close but you couldn't quite finish it so you had one bogey but six birdies right before the rain started, so you've got to be excited about that.   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  Yeah, it was nice to start early, and it was nice and calm the first nine holes, no wind, just perfect conditions.  I was hitting the ball better today, so all the putts that I made, instead of being for par they were for birdie.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Can we just go over your scorecard?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  No. 1, driver, I had 142, 7-iron to about 15 feet.   
 3, I had 106 to the pin, pitching wedge to about three feet.   
 6, I had 135, I hit a 7-iron to about 12 feet.   
 9, I had 172 -- I just made that up (laughter).  It was around 170.  That was a hybrid 4 to about six feet.   
 10, 82, 52-degree to about three feet.   
 13, 135, 7-iron to eight feet.   
 THE MODERATOR:  The bogey on 18, what are you hitting in?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  This is going to be funny.  I had 117.  I hit a 7-iron (laughing).   
  
  Q.  How far was that first putt, 50 feet?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  Yeah, like 40, 50.   
  
  Q.  And that's a two-putt?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Your tee shot on 18, what happened there?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  I've been missing my tee shots right all week, right or left, so I didn't miss one today except on that one.  I guess she wanted to come back to play with me.  I was in the trees, I couldn't go for it so I had to lay up.   
  
  Q.  Was it really thick rough?  You said you hit the iron out of the rough.  Was it just too thick to hit a regular iron?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  Yeah, my punch out to the fairway, it hit the 150 mark and it kicked right, and then it went into the rough.  So I didn't have a very good lie at all.  With the grass being wet, it makes it worse.  So I just tried to punch a 7-iron just to the right side of the green and hopefully two-putt from there.   
  
  Q.  As somebody from where you're from in the world, what's it like to play in this kind of weather, what kind of a mudder or whatever do you see yourself being for another day like this coming up tomorrow?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  Yeah, I mean, I don't know.  If Paraguay we usually have really nice days, and if it rains we don't practice.  We just take the day off.  But it was nice to play early and only have a couple holes of rain.  Tomorrow I might be like five or six shots out of the lead, but it's going to be a tough day again.  Anything can happen.   
  
  Q.  Can I also get you to talk about Ochoa and how you may relate to her and what kind of a person you think she is?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  Well, I've only known her for the two years since I came to the Tour, and last year she was my big sister.  I played with her like four or five times already.  She's a nice girl, and she deserves everything that she's getting because she works really hard for it.  I'm happy that she won the British.   
  
  Q.  Expand on the big sister part.   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  It's just an LPGA -- it's just a program on the LPGA that the veterans help the rookies out, just little things really, where the locker room is, maybe they'll play a practice round with you or go out to dinner, just help make the transition a little bit easier.   
  
  Q.  We know Lorena's profile in Mexico, she's sort of a hero there.  What is your profile like in Paraguay and do you see yourself at some point being like she is in your country?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  Yeah, why not?  In Paraguay they're starting to follow golf a little bit more since me and my team won the World Cup earlier in South Africa, and winning the ADT, that also helped.  So Paraguay is also getting used to quality golf and supporting.  We had Carlos Franco on the PGA TOUR, and he won four times.  So they expect -- there's only a few players, but they expect big things.  So I have to follow up Carlos.   
  
  Q.  When you're out on the course and you're shooting 6-under, do you start thinking -- you're close to the course record, do you start thinking about things like that and how well you're playing and trying to break a record?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  Yeah, you know, I thought about that after I made the birdie on 13, and then I had an easy like 10-, 12-footer on the next hole, and I missed it.  I was a little upset because I knew I could birdie the par 5 and then the next holes are pretty easy holes, especially with where the pins were.  But my scores weren't that low lately, so I was just trying to keep my round together and just finish up after I didn't make birdie on those two holes.   
  
  Q.  This has been an erratic year for you.  You've struggled the last few weeks.  How good does it feel to get a good round under your belt and be in good position going into Sunday?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  It actually feels really, really good.  I've been playing well but I haven't been able to put everything together, all the parts of my game, and last week I really, really worked -- just working on my game and my full swing and my putting.  The first two days it seemed like it was all together but it wasn't, so I'm glad today it kind of came everything at the right time.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you all very much for coming in.  Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT