OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 16, 2016
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You have been here now, this is the second time, you've already been here for the ceremony. What was it like to walk into that stadium?  
JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, it was super exciting. It was obviously an amazing moment for me and for the whole country. I was super proud to be selected to carry the flag and to represent all the other athletes, as well.   
So it was very overwhelming. It was much bigger than anything I have ever experienced before. Everything was so cool. It was amazing.   
   
 Q. What did the other athletes from Paraguay say to you? Were you a big rock star?  
JULIETA GRANADA: Well, one of the swimmers was a flag bearer four years ago, and he was trying to give me tips. The problem is he's six‑foot tall and I'm 5'2, so there's a difference in height.  
This flag was actually very, very heavy. We only got two minutes to test it out, feel it out and I tried to do the best I could. But I was just like, let's not get it all tangled up. Let's make sure that it's somehow moving.   
Everybody, all our friends were texting and make sure that we look happy. So I made sure that we all looked very happy‑‑ well, I guess me.   
   
 Q. Golf is obviously bigger because of the Olympic experience. How much bigger is this in your career compared to anything you've accomplished thus far?   
JULIETA GRANADA: Well, obviously unofficially I represent Paraguay every week, but this is a much bigger stage for golf. And as golfers, first of all, we are as a team representing golf in the village and around in our communities to make sure they respect golf and learn about golf, because it's obviously a new sport.   
But overall for me, it's obviously a dream come true; a recent dream, but still a dream. I'm just looking to experience everything this week and learning and just enjoying myself out there. It's something that not a lot of people get to experience, and I'm super proud to be able to carry the Paraguayan flag and hopefully Paraguay will cheer me on and have a good result.  
   
 Q. Did you watch on Sunday or were you out here on Sunday?   
JULIETA GRANADA: I didn't see it live. We were actually playing the course. But we could hear everything. You know, by the people's reaction, we could tell who won and who didn't. It was super cool just being out on the golf course and hearing the cheers, and being out here with the different guys and asking them about the golf course and the experience and trying to soak it all in and make sure that we are ready for tomorrow.   
   
 Q. Is this course right up your alley? Do you like this golf course?  
JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, it's a beautiful course. First of all, they did an amazing job. To have a course like this in South America, I think it will elevate the game down here a lot. They can hold some major tournaments.   
The golf course is a little bit like Royal Melbourne which I have played really well, and a little bit of links style. So I definitely like this style.   
   
 Q. Could you imagine standing on the podium yourself?   
JULIETA GRANADA: I would be so happy. I would be happier than when I was carrying the flag, if that's even possible. I think my smile would take up my whole face. It would be amazing. Obviously you represent a lot of hard work during a lot of years, and it would put my country up there, which I would love to. But it would be amazing.   
   
 Q. Any athletes you've wanted to meet this week or sports? What do you want to take away from this experience having done?  
JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, I definitely wanted to meet the basketball guys. We walked just close by in the Opening Ceremony, and then we had to go a different direction, so I didn't quite get the picture I wanted. But definitely that was cool.   
I saw Michael Phelps up in the food area. That was exciting, and he was super focused with the headphones on. I saw Nathan Adrian, the other swimmer. It's just cool seeing all the other athletes and what they eat, how they train, like what are they thinking about, how relaxed are they or how nervous are they.   
It's something that we are obviously all girls all the time and we don't get to experience other sports. It was nice. Everybody eats grapes, too, which I'm interested in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT