U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2007
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  A fine round of golf there, those three birdies at the end of the front nine, 7, 8 and 9, what a finish that was for that nine.  Tell us a little bit about that.   
   JULIETA GRANADA: It was, I was hitting the ball real good starting out. But I left myself 20, 25 footers the first six holes.   



 And then finally on 7 I made a 20 footer.   
 And then on 8 about a 10 footer.   
 And 9 about a five footer.  So it kept getting better.  Each hole.   
  
  Q.  That's great.  You're 3-under par, you had a 69 today, how do you feel about your position?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: It's great. This is an awesome tournament and I'm playing really well, so to give myself a shot at it is very nice. Hopefully the weather will stay nice with us. So we can finish today.   
  
  Q.  Are you looking forward to playing again this afternoon?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah. I'm a little tired, but I'll go take a nap or something and I will get my energy back and then start over today. There's nothing we can do about that, so we can't complain or anything.   
  
  Q.  What are you enjoying most about this experience so far?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: Well, USGA events are always really nice and they treat us very nice.   



 Just giving myself a shot at it is, it's quite amazing.  I won the U.S. Girls, so I think I like USGA events.   
  
  Q.  Are you you've won before on Tour, but this is obviously a step up.  Do you feel that like you'll be able to handle it, I mean on the weekend, the typical weekend of the tournament?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, as long as I keep my mind quiet and I just play my game I think that anything can happen. It's right there for the taking. Who knows.   
  
  Q.  It looks like it take, the weather has been helpful in that it's not too hard out there.  Is it going to take red numbers to win this thing?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: I think so. If you play very conservative to the greens you can make a couple putts here and there and two to four birdies a round is really good, so I'm sure there will be birdies out there.   
  
  Q.  What's more pressure, being at the hunt at this tournament or being in the hunt at the million dollar ADT Championship like last year?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: Well obviously the ADT was a little bit more nerve wracking because it was a million and then 100,000. So one zero there. But they're both really important. I can't even compare the two of them.   



 But it was nice to get my first win at that million dollar tournament where there was so much pressure and I handled it very well.   
  
  Q.  You've missed a couple cuts in a row coming in here, what's happened between then and now?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: It's just how golf is. You go up-and-down. And it's, you just have to keep your head up and just keep on going. Last week I was hitting the ball not so good, so I worked with my coach this week and that's all it takes for me to hit it straight and I'll be fine.   
  
  Q.  Who is your coach?   
 JULIETA GRANADA:  David Leadbetter.   
  
  Q.  Where did you work with him?  Here?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, we just hit a couple balls here to make sure that, I told him, "You need to get me back on track here." So I'm glad he did it.   
  
  Q.  Are the people back home paying attention to you?  Since you're near the top of this leaderboard do you think?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, I'm sure. I got a couple of phone calls yesterday already. The first day. So I'm sure that they're paying attention. And who knows maybe there's two South American champions for the USGA this year.   
  
  Q.  You obviously had a really good junior career and you had a really good rookie year, is this last three out of four missed cuts, is that about as bad as you've had a stretch in a long long time or have you been through this fairly recently?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: No, yeah, that's as bad as I had it. I think I missed two cuts in a period of four weeks one time, but it's tough and but you just can't do anything about it, you just have to play golf and enjoy what you're doing.   
  
  Q.  Do you start to doubt yourself at all coming into a tournament of this magnitude, having played so poorly coming into it?   
   JULIETA GRANADA: No, of course not. Whatever happened last year, yesterday, it's over. So you can't keep thinking about that. Because otherwise you go crazy.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT