FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 24, 2006
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Julieta, thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  Terrific round of 7 under par today, which included a nice stretch of five consecutive birdies.  You're at 10 under par for the tournament and just three shots off.

This is your second tournament as an LPGA professional, and you have a good chance at winning this thing tomorrow.  Maybe just talk about that, and then we'll take some questions.
JULIETA GRANADA:  Well, today I played really good.  I didn't start so good, but after the birdie on 2, which it was the 11th, I really got it going.  I was hitting good shots and I had 18 birdie putts.  I'm actually excited to be here and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
Q.  Are we talking to another David Leadbetter student instead of the 5'2" one?
JULIETA GRANADA:  Well, I play good, too.  David Leadbetter is a great coach and I'm just glad I'm working with him right now.

Yeah, Michelle is a David Leadbetter student, too.
Q.  Are your swings similar at all considering your height?
JULIETA GRANADA:  Do we swing similar?
Q.  Yeah.
JULIETA GRANADA:  I don't know, I really haven't looked at her swing.  I think all swings are different in some ways.  But we probably work on the same things because David feels strongly about certain things that we need to work on.
Q.  What's the most important?
JULIETA GRANADA:  Well, like the swing set, you set the club early and with the tempo, just stuff like that.
Q.  The swing set, that the thing that you see on TV with the commercials?
JULIETA GRANADA:  Yeah, I'm not in the commercials.
Q.  Maybe next time.
JULIETA GRANADA:  Maybe next time.
Q.  I don't know if you can, but can you describe the feeling of getting five birdies in a row, was excitement building or what was that like?
JULIETA GRANADA:  Well, actually I had six birdies in a row once.  I was trying to go towards that.  It was at the South American Junior Championship in '04, and so this wasn't the first time, so I kind of knew how to react for everything.
Q.  With all of the talk this year about the teenagers and the rookies, how satisfying is it for you to be up there above all of them with a chance to win?
JULIETA GRANADA:  It feels great.  It's great to be a part of the LPGA, this great stage, and it's great that we have so much competition.  I'm just glad I can be out there with them.
Q.  And then I guess talk about your goals, you played well and got through Q School pretty good, what were your goals heading into this year for the whole year, or did you take it step by step?
JULIETA GRANADA:  Well, my first goal is to make it to the Q School.  I had a great time last year and I really want to go back to that tournament.  I love the course and I love the greens and I just hope to get back there.
Q.  And after that?
JULIETA GRANADA:  After that, I haven't really thought about that.  That's a good question.
Q.  Did you win that South American Junior Championship?
JULIETA GRANADA:  Yeah, I think I won it by 17 or something like that.
Q.  What did you shoot the day you had the birdies?
JULIETA GRANADA:  66.
Q.  That's all?
JULIETA GRANADA:  That's all I got.  (Laughing).
Q.  Do you think Michelle is out of it, out of the tournament, or do you think she's still a threat to win?
JULIETA GRANADA:  What's the lead?
PAUL ROVNAK:  Seon Hwa  Lee is at 13 and Michelle is at 7; she's six back.
JULIETA GRANADA:  Anything can happen.  It's a golf course that you can take advantage of some holes and if you make some putts, you can get back in it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over your score card today?  We just need to know what you hit in on each birdie hole and how far the putt was.
JULIETA GRANADA:  On 2, I had about 186 and I hit a 9 wood, a really bad 9 wood.  It happened to get over the hill and it was about four feet and I made that putt.  It turned out good.

No. 3, I had 140 and I hit a three quarter 7 iron and it was about three feet.

No. 4, I hit    I had about 194.  It was playing downwind, so it was like 184 and I hit a soft 9 wood, and it was about 12 feet.

5, I laid up.  I had about 50 yards and I hit it about four feet.  I hit 58.

No. 6, I had about 145 and I hit a 7 iron about 10, 12 feet.  I'm not very good with feet.

No. 11, I had about 100 yards and I hit a half pitching wedge and it was about 15 feet.

13, I had 50 yards in and I hit a 58 and it was about five feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT