CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 14, 2015
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just one shot off the lead coming off your second round. How was it out there?   
JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, it was nice. I had two really good days. Today was a little bit more scrambling mode, but I had some good birdies out there to keep the round going. So, you know, it's firm out there. It was a little tricky today with the wind. It was blowing a little harder, so that took a little time to get used to.  
   
 Q. Yeah, I know with the forecast it's supposed to be a little rougher this afternoon. Do you think that will affect and were you kind of glad to get out there this morning?   
JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, for sure. I think it would just get tougher. If it blows like this, the greens are going to firm up. It's tough to judge the yardages, so I'm happy to be done.  
   
 Q. How would you evaluate your year?   
JULIETA GRANADA: My year? It's been okay. I had some really good rounds, but I haven't really had a whole tournament, a really good tournament. So I just take the positives from the really low rounds that I had this year and try to build on it. Hopefully, I can get four of them together.  
   
 Q. Did you have any feel coming into this tournament that you might play well?   
JULIETA GRANADA: No. I mean, last week I was pretty exhausted. I had played four in a row, so last week I just really took it easy, didn't practice at all until Saturday, and I saw my coach, so we worked on a few things and then show up here and just keep doing that.  
   
 Q. You're in contention headed into the weekend. What is the game plan?   
JULIETA GRANADA: I think there is no change. I mean, I have to be hitting it good, and I have to make some putts. I just have to get in my own little world out there. I did that very good the first two days, so I just have to keep that up, and hopefully something good happens.  
   
 Q. Has your mom caddied every tournament you ever played?   
JULIETA GRANADA: Not at every tournament, but she's caddied for ten years now. We probably missed like two or three.  
   
 Q. Do you know Chella Choi had a deal with her dad that if she won a tournament the dad would get to retire? Do you have anything like that worked out with your mom?   
JULIETA GRANADA: No, not really. I don't know what she's thinking, but we haven't really talked about it. So that would be a good note to go if she doesn't want to do it anymore, but I think she loves it, so we'll just keep it up.  
   
 Q. You have the Olympics coming up next year, what would it mean to make the team and be able to represent your country?   
JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, I'm really looking forward to it. I think my whole country is super excited for things to come up. I'm going to give it my all. We still have a lot of time left, but this week is just about this week.  
   
 Q. It's been a couple years since you got that first win. What would it mean for you to get another one here this week?   
JULIETA GRANADA: Yeah, it would be sweet. I've been really working hard, and I've been close a couple of times. So those hurt, but you just have to keep going, keep grinding, and it will be nice, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT