CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2014
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. After you fought so well, what do you take away from this week? 
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, it's tough.   I think the more time goes by you realize‑‑ I had a pretty good chance.   I played well coming in and hit some great shots on 18.   That's a really long hole for me.
Just that first putt was a little short, and that second putt I honestly thought I had it.   The greens are getting a little slower, so I think the grain just grabbed it a little bit.
Overall I'm happy with this week.   I had such good support throughout the week.   It was a fun week.

Q.   You mentioned the 18th hole is long for you.   It's been interesting to watch the way you play this week just going about your game, not really looking on the anybody else.   Seems to have worked well. 
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, that's the secret.   I can't look at how far Carlota hits it.   It helped playing with Morgan today.   We're sort the same, the same game, and we played so much in junior golf that we were both very comfortable with each other.
Just to have stick with your game plan.   I have my strengths and I have to use them.

Q.   How important is your mother, not only in your life, but in your golf game?   She's been your caddie ever since you came out. 
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, she's fundamental in this whole process.   We get along so great and we work well out there together.
It's fun to have her throughout this experience.   I think when I grow up this is going to be really cool.

Q.   Talk about the players still in the playoff.   Carlota Ciganda, incredible the way she plays the game.   Does it surprise you that she hasn't been able to win on the LPGA Tour?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, she's had a really good career on the European Tour, but yet on the LPGA she's been a little up and down.
She's got the game.   She's been hitting it really straight the last two days that I got to play with her.   That 3‑wood goes miles.
And Lydia, she's so steady.   You just can't count her out end.
Thanks so much to CME for being such a great sponsor. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT