CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2014
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome Julieta Granada into the media room.   2‑Under, 70 today; 9‑under, one‑shot lead heading into tomorrow.
Pretty similar situation to when you won in 2006.   Feeling pretty good about where you are right now? 
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, I played pretty well today; super consistent.   I hit a lot of fairways and I hit a lot of greens.   I made some good putts out there.
So I'm looking forward to tomorrow, see what tomorrow brings.
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Just wondering how you're controlling your nerves out there and how you're sleeping this week since you've been leading all the way?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, it's funny, the first night it's like, Oh, it's just the first day.   Right?   Second night it's like, It's the second day; we're halfway there.
I slept pretty good so far.   I been feeling pretty came and just pretty relaxed out there.   There is not a lot of thought going on.   I'm just playing some golf.
If I play like that tomorrow, should be fun. 

Q.   It's been a little while, but do you draw at all on your victory the first time when you did win $1 million? 
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, I think I won all the way junior golf, amateur golf, pro level.   In junior golf I was used to winning a lot more often, so I haven't done it in a couple years here, eight years or whatever.
It's exciting.   I lost in a playoff in Australia, so that kind of got the juices flowing I guess in the right direction to win a tournament. 
So I just have to play my game.   I mean, it's tough conditions out there.   Everybody is kind of the first five holes struggling to just kind of get some kind of momentum going.
Then you get a few chances for birdie.   So everybody is on the same boat.   Morgan hasn't won in a while and Carlota hasn't won.   So I think we're all feeling it.   We were pretty relaxed out there.   I thought our group was pretty good.

Q.   What do you think is the hardest part going to be about tomorrow? 
JULIETA GRANADA:   To be honest, it's just managing myself.   I can't control what they're going to do, how they're going to play or the wind or the course setup.
I can't control any of that, but I can control myself.   If I manage to just stay cool like I did today and just play my game and trust my game, it should be a fun day. 

Q.   Did you almost lose your cool today?
JULIETA GRANADA:   No, I don't think so.   Did I?   (Laughter.)   I don't think so.   I stayed pretty cool. 
The 3‑putt on 16 definitely hurt a little bit.   That was definitely not in the plans.   We just have to keep hitting one shot at a time.

Q.   (Regarding birdie putt on 15.)
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah. 

Q.   Are you a scoreboard watcher?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah.

Q.   How much have you watched to this week and how much do you think you'll watch tomorrow?
JULIETA GRANADA:   I'm pretty aware of the situation, let's say.   When I won ADT I remember being on 18th green and looking back and saying, Oh, my gosh.   Lorena and Karrie both hit it in the water, so you better make this putt.
So I'm aware of what's going on.   I like to know where I stand.   Like I said before, I just have to keep playing my game and trust my game, that it's good enough to win out here. 

Q.   When you get really nervous, what does your mom do to calm you down?   And when she gets nervous, how does she act?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Those are inside secrets.   Come on.   No, I mean, when I get nervous she just tells me to slow down, remember to breather. 
I always tell her, But if I don't breathe I'm going to die, so I'm still breathing.   It's okay.
We're aware when each other is a little bit nervous or whatever.   We talk about it walking and try to get back into our groove.

Q.   Does she do anything?   Does she have a tell when she's starts to get really nervous?
JULIETA GRANADA:   I can tell. 

Q.   How can you tell?
JULIETA GRANADA:   I just know her real well. 

Q.   You win tomorrow, what percentage does your mom get? 
JULIETA GRANADA:   Same as every caddie, 10%.   She's going to be happy. 
MODERATOR:   Any more questions?   All right, thanks so much for coming in.   Good luck tomorrow.
JULIETA GRANADA:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT