CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2014
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Julieta Granada into the media center.   You're co‑leader after round two.   Walking up here you said you never led after round one or round two.   Uncharted territory for you this weekend. 
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, this is a new experience.   I'm excited.   This is all very new.   It's going to make me a better player regardless of what happens this weekend, so I'm excited.
MODERATOR:   1‑under in that wind, pretty pleased with that round?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah.   I actually hit the ball pretty well.   I had control of my ball flight out there.   I picked a couple of wrong clubs, couple 3‑putts here and there.
Overall, it was an up‑and‑down round, but I'm happy with 1‑under.
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Talk about the wind swirling the way it did and how that benefits you going into the weekend.   It's supposed to be like this Saturday Sunday.   Perhaps a little warmer, but the same wind conditions. 
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, if it's windy it's good for me.   I feel like I have control of my ball fight when I'm swinging it good.   I feel like I play better in the wind.
Obviously today was a little bit different.   It was a little bit more sideways for some reason than yesterday.   Yesterday just felt more into or down.   Today we had to play a little bit more side wind. 
I'm looking forward to this weekend.   The tougher the better.

Q.   Your natural flight is a little lower anyway.   Did you grow up hitting it that way?   How did you develop that? 
JULIETA GRANADA:   No.   Actually.   I just kind of recently figured out I'm pretty good in the wind.   I looked at my results and most of my good results come usually in windy conditions.
I guess, yeah, I do have a lower ball flight.   I work a lot trying to control that ball flight.   It's exciting. 

Q.   Working with Foley still, right?
JULIETA GRANADA:   (No oral response.)

Q.   How long have you been working with him, and how much has he changed your golf swing?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, I been with him four years, I think a little bit over four years.   He keeps it pretty simple for me.   I know what I'm doing when I'm hitting it bad.   It's always the same thing.
So he keeps it constant.   We do some drills that kind of get my swing back on track.   Every lesson is maximizing what I have.
You know, we're not changing my swing that much.   Usually we tinker with a little bit of posture or grip or things that go bad during a tournament.

Q.   I don't know if you were asked this yesterday, but the $1 million, does that seem like it was a long time ago to you?   How did you invest that?   Were you smart with it, I guess is the question?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, I was smart with it.   I didn't spend all of it in one go, so I guess that's smart. 
No, it saved me actually for those couple years that I was struggling.
Yeah, feels like a long time ago.   I feel like I'm a different person almost.   Definitely I'm a better player.   All the up and downs help you grow up and mature and just make you appreciate where I am right now. 

Q.   You've been in Florida since you were 14 I think, so probably just second home.   First win was in Florida.   How comfortable are you playing in a Florida environment?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, I guess I like it.   Obviously my first win was here and I been here since he was 14 years old.   I live in Orlando, so I sort of play a lot of golf over here.
I can play with the wind and I play with the grass.   It's very homey.   I have a lot of friends around here, so it's exciting. 

Q.   Can you just talk about how you and your mom, the evolution of your relationship?   She's been on your bag all these years.   As you've grown up, how has that relationship‑ seems like it's still very good‑ changed as you've grown up from a little kid to now a grown woman and you guys are still together in that working capacity?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, in terms of the player/ caddie out there, my rookie year she didn't do much.   Just carried the bag, good, positive thoughts.
But now I feel like she's a great caddie.   She's very involved.   She does a lot of the (indiscernible) in tournament rounds, and then I can use that during the rounds.   I mean not tournament rounds, practice rounds.
So I feel like, yeah, our relationship has definitely matured as well.   She knows what my game is like.   She also had to figure it out when I was struggling.   Like you know, my swing, few corrections. 
So she can do pretty much anything out there.   She can fix my swing or give me a good club.

Q.   You ever yell at her if she gives a bad yardage?
JULIETA GRANADA:   I always say it's never really the caddy's fault.   At the end of the day, we have the last decision.   If I go with her club and it's not a good one, then you live with it.   If I go with my club and it's not a good one, I live with it. 
Yeah, we have a normal caddie/player relationship I guess, so we go up and down.

Q.   Do you consider the course and conditions like this, is it easier to come back to the field to have a big score or easier to make up ground?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Well, I guess depends the state of your game, right?   If you're feeling confident you can definitely make up ground.
I feel like on this course the start is super key.   I feel like 1 through 5 are really tough holes, and then the course gives you a break for a little while.
Then 18 comes back and it's a really tough finishing hole.   So you just have to manage yourself a lot in the beginning.   Just kind of stay cool. 
Then you're going have holes to make birdies at.

Q.   As we look at the bigger picture of the Race to the CME Globe and look at Inbee, now 8 shots behind and Stacy 6, is that a tough spot to be in on a course like this, or can ground be made up quickly do you think?   Not that you care. 
JULIETA GRANADA:   No, obviously not.   No, kidding.   Of course I care. 
But, no, I think if they go out there and shoot a low one tomorrow‑‑ I mean, I saw the scores today.   They looked pretty low.   I didn't think the course was playing that easy, so you can obviously make up a lot of the ground really quick.
In order to do that your game has to be on.   You can't be a little bit off because the wind and the toughness of the course will show it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT