CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2014
Julieta Granada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NICK PARKER:   I would like to welcome Julieta Granada to the media room after 66 today, 6‑under.   Really got it going.   Leading out there.   Tough conditions.   Run me through it. 
What was working for you out there?   How did you get to go so low?   It's your best round ever in the first round.
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, just kind of managed my game really well at the beginning where I was playing really conservative, just hitting the greens, and two‑putting for par.
Feel like the start is really tough out here, and once you get going you can make some birdies out there.   I just managed my game pretty well.

Q.   You turned your career around this year.   seven Top 10s; you didn't qualify for this tournament last year.   What's been the big difference this year?
JULIETA GRANADA:   I feel like it's a little bit of everything.   I matured a lot throughout this year.   The ups and downs of golf, I guess.   But this.
Year I have a new trainer.   My coach is the same.   But I just kind of came out with a little bit more intensity and I was like, I want to do better.
It was a good year. 
NICK PARKER:   Questions. 

Q.   Tell us how the wind was during your round.   Seems to be affecting a lot of other folks out there. 
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, it's windy out there.   It's definitely blowing.   Most of the holes are either down or into.   Especially at the beginning they're all into a little bit right to left.
Yeah, you just have to manage your lines and you have to start it where you want it and hope you hit it good.   (Laughter.)

Q.   You're one of the few women in the world who knows what it's like to play with $1 million prize awaiting.   What will it be like?   I know you don't have a shot at the $1 million jackpot, but there is still a pretty good prize you can take prize here.   But what can we expect Sunday to be like for those women knowing so much is at stake?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, I think all the girls that have a chance, they know what they're doing out there.   They're tough and they're good players, so they will just keep playing their game.
This course is a good finish, especially with 17 being a reachable par‑5.   It will be interesting to watch.   I expect them to handle just fine.   I know it's a lot of money, but it's just golf, and you just have to hit one shot at a time. 

Q.   From your personal experience with winning the million, did you ever think it may have been too much too soon for you?   How do you think your career has gone since then?   I think this is your best year since 2006. 
JULIETA GRANADA:   I wouldn't take it back.   Like, Here, take that back.   Yeah, but, you know, you're 20 years old and it's your first year out here.   It's really exciting and fun and you win $ 1 million. 
Life becomes really good.   You think you can just go relax a little bit.   But everybody else out here is still grinding and going at it. 
I kind of sat back a little bit and relaxed and I didn't have the same hunger to play well and to make money, I guess.
So, yeah, it was a learning curve, but I wouldn't take it back. 
What was the second question? 

Q.   How do you think your career has evolved since that point? 
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, it's maturing.   You know, I'm 28 now and I've been through 4th on the Money List to 30th on the money to 100th on the Money List.   I been pretty much everywhere. 
It's maturing and appreciation for being out here.   I think I have such a good appreciation, and I love to come out to ever event.
You just to have to mature as a player and as a person. 

Q.   What was it like playing with Christina today, especially her coming off her win?
JULIETA GRANADA:   Yeah, we had a lot of fun.   We were chatting it up out there.   She played so well last week.   We were all so happy for her.   She just beat everybody. 
She was enjoying herself out there.   Started off a little rocky and then she came back.   Everybody was congratulating her and cheering for her, so it was fun.
NICK PARKER:   Everything is on the line at the end of the season:   $1 million for the first time ever; Rolex Player of the Year; Vare Trophy; Official Money List.   Is this kind of the dream scenario coming down the stretch? 
JULIETA GRANADA:   I think for the LPGA it is.   I mean, we have really good names out there that have been playing well all year, and it's just so tight, the battle for whoever wins.
I think it brings even more prestige to this event and see who can come out on top. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT