NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 11, 2000
Rick Ankiel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  A lot of guys have said there is no substitute for experience.  Yours is somewhat limited, but what does that game against the Braves do for you?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  I think it just wants to make me get out there that much more and try and do better that much more.  But I have also pitched in a Junior Olympics.  And at the time, that was the same thing for me.  So I feel that I have been in this situation before, and I just need to come to the field with my A game tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Had you ever experienced anything quite like that before in your life?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  Not that I can remember. 
 

Q.  How supportive were your teammates after that?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  As good as they can be.  They just pat you on the back, say "forget about it" and just look forward to your next one.  
 

Q.  Have you pinpointed the problem as far as the wild pitches?  Was that a mechanical thing?  And are you confident it has been pinpointed?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  Yeah, I feel it was mechanical totally.  I mean, we worked on some things this week, and I feel great. 
 

Q.  Going back to the comments of your teammates after that game, were there any one or two that stick in your mind?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  I don't think so.  For me, I am trying to forget about that day as much as I can. 
 

Q.  You tried all season long to have fun as much as possible.  Does this situation, the bigness of it all not allow you to have fun?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  No, I don't think so.  I think this is as much fun as you could have.  We are out here playing for the National League Championship here in St. Louis.  What more could you want? 
 

Q.  Growing up where you grew up, did you catch a lot of Mets spring training games?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  I have seen a couple.  I am not really a big fan of the Mets, though. 
 

Q.  Who are you a fan of?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  I watched the Braves, I think, more growing up.  But I think I like certain players  more than teams. 
 

Q.  Would you give a quick analysis of the Mets lineup, and what do you think about it going in?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  Throw a strike one and stay out of the middle of the plate after that. 
 

Q.  Are you more confident with Marrero and the fact that he caught you more this season, and will that help you tomorrow?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  I am confident with whoever they put back there.  We are going to have a game plan going into tomorrow and whoever they put back there will be ready to go. 
 

Q.  Is there any history as to why you are not a fan of the Mets growing up right there?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  I am not really a fan of any other team, I guess, since I play for the Cardinals. Maybe just growing up there I just didn't like them too much, I guess, I don't know. 
 

Q.  Any particular player you didn't like?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  No. 
 

Q.  Any incident?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  No. 
 

Q.  What is your typical preparation on the day you pitch?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  Same thing I do every day.  You  know, come in, get ready to go, do my arm exercises come out warm up and let's go. 
 

Q.  What do you do away from the park?
 
RICK ANKIEL:  Same thing I do everyday, relax try and stay busy a little bit, watch TV, whatever. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT