CHAMP CAR WORLD SERIES: MOLSON INDY MONTREAL
August 27, 2004
Sebastien Bourdais
Mario Dominguez
Alex Tagliani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  It's unfortunate, I started pushing the envelope too hard, the car lost the rear and I had the accident, but I think the tires would have definitely dropped there everybody else, so the track was picking up grip.  We are looking pretty strong.  We have a pretty strong car.  In the first qualifying session, we are the fastest and I'm pretty happy with what we got.  We'll make a few changes on the car.  We can definitely improve for tomorrow and try to catch these guys and give this guy a run for his money.  
 
MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  Just my ego.  
 
ALEX TAGLIANI:  Yeah, we're a little bit surprised that  -- coming in after Sebastien, and they ran many, many laps on the first.  Our strategy was to run a few laps on the first set of tires, come in, make a change, do a middle run with the old tires, see if everything is good, and evaluate the change and go back out with a newer set of tires.  But we cut it really close at the end, and it was a few minutes with the incident of Mario, we basically didn't add a run on our second set of tires.  When I went out in middle run with the old tires, I was already a lot quicker than my first run.  So, I should have probably completed that last set coming in.  
 
ALEX TAGLIANI:  Yeah, we would have loved to be in Sebastien's spot today because I think we have a very, very quick car, but it's good to be in this position and knowing that we have a fast car and we can fairly have a shot for the pole tomorrow.  
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Obviously everybody knows that when you sit on the pole, it's a very great feeling.  I'm very happy for the guys who are working very hard from the beginning of the season and really get the reward.  It's looking good.  We'll just try and keep our heads down because everybody is looking a lot around us.  But we just really need to stay focused.  
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  This racetrack is not really used much, so it's running pretty fast and the track picks up a lot of grip.  Really just keep improving, because the grip is higher and higher; so you are having a very good time the more you run, the more grip you get.  And the car is very good and very nice to drive.  So I'm just having a very pleasant time right now and the car is pretty satisfying.  It was a very good lap going on the second set, but the red flag came out.  So I'm not going to complain about anything, still finished No. 1, and we'll have a shot again tomorrow and we'll try again tomorrow. 
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  No, we were pretty good.  We stayed had the standard tires and we stuck with it.  Just another two pretty good options here that we can use, and hopefully we'll be able to evaluate the test between the two options tomorrow.  But, you know, hopefully the weather is going to stay clear and we'll be able to find out tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Mario, what about the car, how bad is it?  Will they be able to fix this or are you going to have to go to the back-up for what's going to happen with that? 
 
MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  No, it's not too bad.  It's just the right-front corner -- the right-rear corner and the right-rear window, so they should have that fixed by this afternoon.  
 
Q.  Earlier this week, you talked about your concern with the tires coming in here because of the experience you had at Portland this year.  Are you more hopeful of the good race this weekend seeing what the car did today on the tires? 
 
ALEX TAGLIANI:  Yeah, I mean, we are still a little bit concerned.  Portland was a track where we ran the same tires, and it's a very abrasive track; so we were destroying the tires really quickly.  So we didn't have the balance of the car right.  Obviously, we were not able to keep the consistency in the car for a full stint.  So, we started the weekend much better, but I think there's still a lot of work to be done and we'll try to have a very consistent car for the length of a stint in the race.  
 
Q.  Although there's passing places on this track, is there any extra urgency to qualify on the front row at a tight track like this? 
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Well, I don't think it's really I tight track.  You just like to put yourself up front to prevent falling behind because really the key of the season so far is just really running away.  So hopefully it's going to be a clean and nice start and won't have to repeat what happened in Denver.  I guess it's possible here to pass but I'm excited.  
 
Q.  It looked like it was actually a pretty hard hit; you jumped out, how hard of a hit was it?  It seemed to be a pretty good compliment to the safety of the car, the HANS device; what would you say about that? 
 
MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  I thought it was going to be a pretty hard hit because I went into the tires pretty fast.   There's like two rows of tires there, so it was like very soft.  The hit didn't feel very hard at all, so that was good.  I think the track did a pretty good job there, from like the first row of tires and then another row of tires at the back.  I'll give a compliment to the track itself is pretty good.  If there had been just one set of tires near against the wall, it would have been a lot harder.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT