WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL D
March 10, 2017
Carlos Correa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Puerto Rico - 11, Venezuela - 0   
 Q.  First of all, analyze this game, the victory that you got with your batting and defense, and besides your doing exhibitions that Carlos Correa could also be a third baseman.  
CARLOS CORREA: Well, truly it was really good teamwork.  The pitching and the defense and the offense were looking for pitches to hit, and everything worked, and that's the result.  Maybe you say that my position is shortstop, but really in this team I am okay with third base.   
 Q.  Can you talk about after the home run, like if it had been for one run, all the environment, all the atmosphere, how had team represented the country.  
CARLOS CORREA: Each game counts, and obviously emotions are like playoffs.  We wanted to be the best possible.  This is a big game with this Venezuela team, and obviously it's a lot of emotions.   
 Q.  Playing third base tonight, can you tell us what that was like?  
CARLOS CORREA: I feel like it was the same as shortstop, just throwing from a different angle.  I felt really comfortable.  I've been working on it for the last week, and it felt natural.   
 Q.  And the overall effort from the team?  
CARLOS CORREA: Great effort overall.  The pitching staff did a great job.  The young guys came in, got the work done, and obviously the offense was there.  When the defense is working and the pitching is working and you're putting up a lot of runs, it's obviously going to be a great game.   
 Q.  After the offensive exhibition that you had today and taking into consideration what happened to México last night where the bullpen went down, each game is different, but is it better to say that México is a victim because of the power that you have?  
CARLOS CORREA: Well, we're trying to take it a day at a time.  We have to be focused again, do the work we have to do.  We have 0-0 at the start with a good team, so we're trying to get the victory tomorrow.   
 Q.  Have you ever felt more proud to be Puerto Rican than today?  
CARLOS CORREA: Today was probably the most proud moments of my baseball career, to be able to wear my team Puerto Rico uniform for the first time.  It meant so much to me.  It's something I've always wanted to do since I got drafted, and it's finally here, so obviously trying to do the best for my home country.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT