AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 17, 2019
Carlos Correa
George Springer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Houston - 8, New York - 3
Q. Carlos, it seemed like you guys won every big moment tonight, whether it be from your bullpen or your home run or George's. How important is it in a playoff game in an atmosphere like that to win every moment and take the crowd out of the game?
CARLOS CORREA: I think it's huge. It's huge. When you're able to shut them down like Pressly did and be able to score runs on top of that, I think it changes the game right away. They have bases loaded a couple of times that were not able to do anything, our pitching did a great job, and then we were able to score some runs on top of that. So I think that's why we won this game.
Q. AJ has a long history of sticking with his guys when they're struggling and scuffling, yourself included, obviously. What's it like having a manager that has that much faith in you at all times, always trusting you to come through in the big moments?
CARLOS CORREA: As a player that's what you need from a manager, you need that vote of trust. He's shown it through all these years he's been managing the Houston Astros. It doesn't matter how tough times are, he believes in you, he trusts you. And you can't ask for anything better from your manager. He's one of the best out there, for sure.
Q. You guys have a great ability, and you showed it tonight, to slug but also to not strike out. How important is that, especially in October, and how do you guys do it?
CARLOS CORREA: It's huge. It's huge against tough pitching. We just try to take advantage of the mistakes they make. Today they made some mistakes, and we were able to put up two homers, six runs on two mistakes. Guys getting on base and walks, the singles, they're huge.
We just have a good approach, I feel like. We're looking for something in the middle of the zone, if it's not there we try not to swing at it. Then we try to put great at-bats together as a team. Not everything is about tipping, anything like that; we can hit, too.
Q. You're the youngest player with ten career postseason home runs. What does that mean at your age to be able to do that?
CARLOS CORREA: It means a lot. They actually told me in the clubhouse and she showed me a list, and it feels great to be the youngest player to do so. It's a lot.
It's been a tough year for me, I went through a lot. And then come here in the postseason and be able to contribute to my team. It means everything.
(Answer in Spanish.)
Q. You smiled and joked about it at the end of the answer to my last question. But does that bug you guys, you're such a good offensive team, and there's still so much chatter about, Well, they're getting the pitches somehow?
CARLOS CORREA: Yeah, absolutely. When I listen to the people talking about it in the business, I just laugh. I just laugh because they say, Oh, we have something or the pitchers were tipping, when they had nothing, sometimes. You know what I mean?
We're just watching the game. We're taking advantage of every single detail we can get. Hitting is tough. If you're tipping your pitches, fix it. If you're tipping your pitch and I can see, I'm going to take advantage of it. I'm trying to help my team win ball games, and every single edge counts.
But I think it's disrespectful that every time we score a lot of runs, people talk about tipping. Nobody was tipping today and we scored, what, eight runs? We're great hitters. We've been doing it for a whole season. You look across the board the numbers this team has put up through a full season, it's just unbelievable how many guys have been on top of their game this year. Not every pitcher that goes out there for 162 tips.
Q. What kind of words of encouragement did you give Ryan Pressly? He said you told him a little something that helped him out.
CARLOS CORREA: You want the R version or the PG version?
Q. Probably the PG, even though it's late.
CARLOS CORREA: I told him, This is your moment. I remember when we were in the training room both rehabbing at the same time and this is the moment that we worked really hard for, for moments like this, for moments for you to shine and give us a chance to win the ball game. That's pretty much what I told him. I'm giving you the PG version.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
CARLOS CORREA: (Answer in Spanish.)
Q. You mentioned that you saw the list and you were impressed by it. Were there some names that stood out when you see what you've done, and to be the youngest?
CARLOS CORREA: Yeah, I saw Albert Pujols. I grew up a huge fan of Albert Pujols. I even wear No. 5 all the way growing up. Obviously couldn't wear it with the Astros, because the legend Jeff Bagwell, Hall of Famer, the number is retired. I'm a big fan of Pujols and to see what he did at a younger age, it really means a lot, very humbling.
Q. What was different in your guys's approach today against Tanaka? Looked like you were a little less aggressive.
GEORGE SPRINGER: I think we hit mistakes. Pretty much he didn't make one in Houston. He made a couple today and I think that was it. Just make sure that we hit a mistake and we'll see what happens.
Q. How did the emotions change after your home run both with your team and what you sense from the Yankees and the crowd?
GEORGE SPRINGER: I think to get out of the first inning with only one I think was absolutely huge for us and then to come back and score off of a really, really tough pitcher, a guy that doesn't give up runs at all in the playoffs. He's been unbelievable throughout his career.
So for us to strike for three right there I think that was obviously big for us. And made them play from behind.
Q. George, this is obviously a prolific offense, you showed it tonight, Carlos batted 7 sometimes. How would you describe this offense and how you guys can wear teams down?
GEORGE SPRINGER: We try to pass the baton. It's an offense where it's not -- it's not about individual anything. It's about what's best for the team. And it's do anything that you possibly can to get the baton on to the next guy. I don't think there's anybody in our lineup who cares what position they're hitting in. Just because you're hitting 5th or 8th or 9th or first, that doesn't really mean much. It's an awesome thing to be a part of just guys wanting to pass the baton on to the next one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT