AL DIVISION SERIES: RAYS VS ASTROS
October 8, 2019
Carlos Correa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Want to know, when you went to Seattle and had your back issue as a result of the flight, are you having to do anything precautionary on flights from now on, the rest of the season, to kind of prevent that from happening today?
CARLOS CORREA: Yeah, I'm laying on the aisle.
Q. Seriously?
CARLOS CORREA: Yeah. It's all good.
Q. How is that working out?
CARLOS CORREA: Pretty good. I felt great when I got here, got my sleep, got my rest. Felt awesome when I got off the plane. Just happy to be back with the team and on the field once again.
Q. Carlos, what do you think about Justin going today? What does that mean to the team to have him out there?
CARLOS CORREA: For me, it's the right call. He's our guy. He's going to go out there and do what he does best, and we're very confident when he's on the mound.
So when he got the ball, obviously, we feel we're going to win every game he's on the mound. We've got to go out there and perform, get this win, get back home, have a happy flight.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
CARLOS CORREA: (Answer in Spanish.)
Q. Carlos, we've seen you make some pretty incredible defensive plays during the first three games of the season. Is that when you know your back is at its best, when you're laying out, diving, and able to make all those plays?
CARLOS CORREA: Yeah, absolutely. I'm going out there playing knowing that I'm 100 percent healthy. So I'm not stopping myself. It's the playoffs. It's the last month of the season. So I'm going out there, giving it my all. If I have to dive, I'm going to dive and make plays. That's what I do. That's what I've been doing my whole career.
If I can help my pitchers, I'm going to always be there laying out.
Q. Carlos, what are the greatest challenges in preparing for a bullpen game, especially one with a staff like the Rays?
CARLOS CORREA: Yeah, obviously, you don't know who you're going to face. They're going to do match-ups. They'll have different guys pitching probably every one or two innings. So, you know, just got to be able to adjust.
Once you see a guy in the bullpen you're coming up to bat, you have to start making your plan right away. We've got a lot of video in the dugout. We've got a lot of video in the clubhouse. It's all studying and adjusting real quick.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT