AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS VS RED SOX
October 13, 2018
Carlos Correa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Astros - 7, Red Sox - 2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Carlos Correa.   
 Q.  Justin called your hit that gave you the 3-2 lead the biggest hit of the night.  How good was that hit, how did it feel to you?  
CARLOS CORREA: It felt really good.  I've been feeling great since the season in Cleveland.  My back is in the best state it's been in since I came back from the DL.  I'm very positive when I'm standing on the field.  Right now I'm feeling really good.  I'm hoping for a really good series.   
That hit was huge.  Stopped their momentum.  Obviously came from scoring two runs the previous inning.  It was huge, but most importantly it gives me a lot of confidence, which is key.   
 Q.  How big was it coming in here to take the home field away from these guys?  
CARLOS CORREA: It's huge.  Game 1, it's always big.  It sets the tone.  We scored a lot of runs today.  When we put great at-bats together, it can get scary out there.  So I think that's what we did tonight.  And hopefully we stay consistent with that.   
 Q.  You have won so many different types of games under A.J. in the playoffs.  Seemed like another one of those where it was maybe a little messy, tight, didn't go like people thought it would and then you still win it 7-2, put up four runs in the ninth inning.  
CARLOS CORREA: Absolutely.  One through nine the lineup everybody can do damage.  Obviously I think the bullpen we have right now is just unbelievable.  It's lights out.  Two, three-run lead and those guys can shut people down.   
I think that's huge.  When you look at our team, I don't see any, really, I don't see any weaknesses.  It's just all strengths.  When you look across the board, all 25 guys on the roster, good baseball players all around.  And obviously we trust each other and we have a lot of confidence in each other.   
 Q.  You had a lot of base runners tonight, but you didn't break through until the ninth.  How did you as a team keep from getting frustrated with so many runners on but didn't break through until the ninth?  
CARLOS CORREA: We know we're big into putting great at-bats together as a team.  And sometimes you put a lot of guys on base and not going to get the runs you want, but at the end of the day the lineup is too much.  It's just hard to contain our lineup.  We had a lot of guys on base but they scored seven runs.  That's enough to win ballgames.  So I take it.   
 Q.  You guys talk about getting runs and all the traffic on base, but is there less pressure on you guys to score when your pitching staff does as well as they've done especially in the playoffs here?  
CARLOS CORREA: Absolutely.  When Justin is on the mound, we show up to the ballpark thinking we're going to win that game.  And same thing with every pitcher, but Justin has been lights out since he joined our team.  And three, four, five runs, it's just enough for him.  And he shuts people down.  A lineup like the Red Sox, obviously they have a great lineup, he shut them down tonight.  It's just so much fun to watch.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT