MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 21, 2017
John Beilein
Charles Matthews
Muhammad-Ali Abdur-Rahkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Michigan - 102, Chaminade - 64
THE MODERATOR: We welcome Michigan to the media room, Coach Beilein, Charles Matthews, and Muhammad-Ali Abdur-Rahkman.  Let's start with an opening statement from Coach.
JOHN BEILEIN: After last night's tough loss, the only thing we could focus on is how do we come out of this trip?  How do we have Thanksgiving dinner and come out of this thing 2-1?  There's only going to be one team that comes out of here 3-0, and obviously it wasn't going to be us.  So in order to do it, we need to take one day at a time.
I really liked it under the circumstances.  I wanted to go through my whole career if I could never playing Chaminade.  And today, there it was in front of us, and we ended up getting the win.  And we'll take it.  We grew today, just like we did last night.
Q. Charles, you had a heck of a game.  8-for-8 shooting, 2-for-2 from three-point range, and you missed a free throw.  Ten rebounds.  How did it feel out there today to bounce back for you guys as players?
CHARLES MATTHEWS: I'm just happy we came back and won this game.  We lost a close one yesterday, but (indiscernible).
Q. Could each of you speak to how you thought Eli handled being moved to the starting lineup?
MUHAMMAD-ALI ABDUR-RAHKMAN: I think he handled it well.  He had a good game yesterday, we thought.  It didn't go his way some plays, but we just came out and bounced back today.  We're just happy how he played.
CHARLES MATTHEWS: Yeah, I mean, Eli's a great talent, but we have three great point guards, so they have no choice but to get back tomorrow and compete against each other each and every day.  So any game could be any one of them.  But Eli did a great job handling that.
Q. Coach, I look at this box score, and I see 22 assists on 37 baskets.  Unbelievable shooting.  65 percent from the field.  A ton of good stuff.  What pleased you the most today?
JOHN BEILEIN: I think the way we came out, we came out with almost some spite to us after last night's loss.  We watched 25 clips this morning that probably were pretty painful for us to watch.  They know how fragile a win and a loss could be, how closely it could change.  I just like the way we came out and played really hard, knowing certainly Chaminade's the underdog.  But to come out and play, not take it for granted, go out and play the way we did today.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
JOHN BEILEIN: We met as a staff about it, and we really wanted to make sure we were all on board and the staff all agreed that this was something we wanted to look at, just so we get different people.  Might make more changes in the future.  I think we have a great flow with him.  Now, he didn't shoot the ball as well.  But he really -- the ball moves really well with him right now, and that's really what we were just trying to get movement so -- we've got enough guys trying to learn what we're doing.  He really picked up our stuff quicker than others.
Q. Coach, how do you think that Charles Matthews performed today in just about perfect shooting?
JOHN BEILEIN: Yeah, he's really worked hard.  One of the things coming in was people questioned whether he could shoot the ball.  He's worked so hard on it over the last year.  He can get to the rim.  He can get to places that's hard to get to because of his quickness, his length, and his athleticism.
So just really proud of him.  But I'm just as proud of the way he came down the court, and he also ended up with four assists.  That's new territory for him to be passing the ball right now.  So I'm just proud of that and the rebounds.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT