BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2008
Miles Tunnicliff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEVE TODD: Congratulations, Miles, and thanks for coming in. 
 Course record equalling today, you must be delighted with that. 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Yeah, 65 around here any time, great score. It's taken me a while to get used to this course but today I managed to work it out and holed a few putts. Very pleased. 
 STEVE TODD: I understand you've been carrying a bit of injury, as well from earlier in the week. 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Yeah, Wednesday I couldn't hit any shots at all. I was beware the injured golfer again. Pulled a muscle in my forearm and the physios worked very hard all day Wednesday, and managed to sort me out with some acupuncture and it's feeling fine the now last two days and I haven't felt it at all.
 STEVE TODD: Certainly didn't team to affect you today. Is that the best you've played.
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Yeah, I've been playing pretty stead it I all year. Been playing quite nicely. Just a matter of if the putts drop in, and today I started off with four single putts in a row to start the round so that was a nice way to start. 
 STEVE TODD: If you could just talk us through your card then. 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Yeah, the first hole I struggled. Didn't hit a good tee shot at the first and came up short of the green with a second shot. Again not a good chip shot and holed about a 40-footer for par. Started the round off nicely, holing a putt like that.
 Hit a good shot, 8-iron at the second to about 12 feet and holed that. 
 And then two good shots at the third, driver and a 7-iron, holed from about 15, 20 feet. 
 5, I hit a 6-iron into the par 3 and holed from about 20 feet again. 
 Eagle at 7, yeah, I hit a rescue club off the tee and a little soft 9-iron, pitched just short of the hole, went past and spun back in for eagle.
 9, hit a bad tee shot into the bunker and couldn't reach the green with the second shot. Laid up just short and didn't hit a very good pitch shot. Came up short again and 2-putted for bogey. 
 11, 3-wood off the tee, again a little 9-iron, same sort of shot as the 7th hole to about two feet behind the hole. 
 12, hit a good tee shot, 4-iron just came up short in the bunker right and played a really good bunker shot from about 30 yards, hit it to about two feet. 
 13, is when that squally shower came down and came straight into us and didn't hit a very good tee shot. Again, tried to reach the green with a 3-iron but came up about 40 yards short. Hit a very good pitch and a very good putt and it just lipped out from about ten feet on the left side. 
 15, I hit 3-wood off the tee, feel a bit more comfortable with 3-wood off that tee but had 3-iron in and hit a very good shot to about 20 feet left of the hole and hit a good putt. 
 17, good drive again, just fell off the right side of the fairway, so couldn't reach the green, laid up with a 4-iron and then hit a very good pitch from about 60 yards to about three feet. 

 Q. Where does he stick the needles for your acupuncture?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Everywhere. We did two sessions all up my arm, all different areas. There were about five needles the first time and then five the next all in different areas. 

 Q. Have you had acupuncture before?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Yeah, I have, it seems to work every time. Perhaps I ought to do it more. 

 Q. Right arm?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Yeah. 

 Q. What does he think it does, if you've got a pulled muscle, how does the acupuncture --
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: It tends to sends the blood rushing in a bit more to the area presumably and makes the recovery a lot quicker. 

 Q. And where was that done?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: In the physio unit. Physios are very good. 

 Q. What would you have given your chances at playing before you went in? 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: I played a practice round, I was struggling a little bit on Monday and I played a practice round on Tuesday, just started to hurt at the end of the round and Wednesday morning, I could hardly move my arm on Wednesday morning when I got up. I was a little bit worried to be truthful but by the end of Wednesday, it was feeling a lot better and then I was lucky, I had a very late time on Thursday so he gave me a little more time to recover. 

 Q. If you had been out in the morning, do you think you might not have made it?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: I would have probably made it. I would have probably give ten a go. 

 Q. Are you an alternative medicine man? 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Little bit occasionally. Try things. 

 Q. What else have you gone in for? 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Just natural medicines some of the time instead of going for antibiotics and stuff, go for the safer route. 

 Q. When you're in the Far East, do you eat snakes or anything?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: No. Definitely not. Not from my experiences of my stomach experiences in India and places like that, no. Try and keep as safe as possible.

 Q. You were telling me a couple of weeks ago you were trying herbal stuff. 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Yeah, I have done in the past.

 Q. What kind of things? 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: I'm not taking anything at the moment. With all of these drug testing coming in, I'm not taking anything. Just try and stay as fit as possible and that's it. 

 Q. Do you have lots of little bottles that will now remain unused then?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: No, no, not that many. 

 Q. Staying on the alternative side of things, do you do hypnosis or anything like that to help you relax?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: I have done in the past but I'm not working with any sports psychologists or anyone at the moment, just doing my own thing. 

 Q. You look like you found a bit of trouble on the last; was there a good putt in the end? 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Yeah, not a bad tee shot. Just down the left, in the rough down the left and the left down the left is really thick. I had a lie which I thought was going to make the ball go left. So I allowed for that, and it came straight out right. I was pretty lucky with the second shot that it stayed out of the trouble on the right. 
 Then thought I hit a good third shot but just came up a little short and managed to chip-and-putt. 

 Q. How far were you from the creek and the water with your second?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: To get over? It was over the creek by quite a way but it was down by the right side where there was another hazard down the right.

 Q. The 9-iron, how long was that? 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: It was 135 yards, just a little knock-down shot. 

 Q. When is the last time you led a tournament after two rounds? 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: I'm not sure. Probably Gleneagles when I won last time. I've been up there a few times Portugal; I was doing well going into the last round but not after two. So probably Gleneagles. 

 Q. Last year or the year before?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: No, the year I won. I can't think of any other time. The last two years have been a bit of a struggle, so I haven't been up there too many times but this year has been a lot better.

 Q. How do you expect to feel tomorrow?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Nervous, bound to be. Maybe in the last group but BMW PGA Championship, there's bound to be nerves. But I've been there a few times, so pretty experienced with it so hopefully will be able to cope with it as well as we can. 

 Q. What's the problem the last couple years, anything in particular? 
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Just lost my way a little bit. Just haven't played well. Just haven't hit the ball as well as I had done before that. I lost my little safe shot, which is my little fade, and I lost that shot over the last couple of years. It's a bit of a fight when you haven't got a safe shot in the bank and this year I seem to have found it again and feel a lot more comfortable.

 Q. What have you found so disconcerting about Wentworth in the past that now you've --
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: I think you just need to play the golf course a lot. You need to know -- you've got to not hit driver off every tee and you've got to hit irons off some tees and just not -- you've got to treat it with a bit of respect, this course. You haven't try and overpower it. You've got to play into position a lot and I think it just takes time to learn that around this course. 
 Also the wind, how to trust the wind from the first hole, because it does swirl around a little bit. I'm lucky enough we haven't had too much wind these first two days.

 Q. Where does 65 around here rank among the best you've played?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: One of the best rounds. 

 Q. Top 3, Top-5?
 MILES TUNNICLIFF: Yeah, probably Top-5. I've had two or three 63s. Probably one of the top 5 rounds. 
 STEVE TODD: Thanks very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT