GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2019
Jordan Poole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How confident are you that you feel like you can step into an immediate role?  
JORDAN POOLE: I feel extremely confident. Being able to have an amazing player development staff and a lot of the older guys have been kind of just giving me reassurance that I'm here for a reason. You know, we've been working a lot over the summer, and my confidence is something that has gotten me to this point. So just being able to come in and learn as much as I can, especially behind Klay and D'Lo and Steph, but just trying to play an important role, not trying to do too much, but trying to make any impact that I can, I feel like I have enough confidence to do so.   
 Q.  You've been an NBA player now for roughly three months. What have you learned about life in the NBA on the court and offer the court in that short span of time obviously without playing games?  
JORDAN POOLE: Yeah, it's a job. I mean, whoever comes in and works the hardest and really perfects their craft are the people who are good. Obviously there are a lot of things you have to do. You still want to take care of your body. It's a long season, and that's something that they've kind of been telling me throughout this entire process. Like I've been working out as soon as we got back from Summer League. Just maintaining your body, the way you work, just trying to learn as much as possible, but like I said, being able just to have a great group of guys and a great coaching staff who was willing to help me and answer any questions that I had makes it a lot easier.   
 Q.  Do you think you'll maybe run some plays that -- they've used pin-downs for Klay. Do you think you'll be used in that action that they used Klay in?  
JORDAN POOLE: Yes, that's something we've been working on this entire summer, a lot of pin-downs, a lot of stuff off the ball. With Klay being such an amazing shooter, coming off the ball, whenever Steph has the ball and D'Lo has the ball, being able just to make shots. Coming out of the offense, kind of trying to step into that role and kind of pick up where Klay left off a little bit, until he's able to come back is something that we've really been focusing on, and I feel like that'll be a focal point until Klay comes back.   
 Q.  You mentioned filling in for Klay there. There's obviously a lot of competition at that position. How do you feel you stack up in that competition and how confident are you you can get some playing time?  
JORDAN POOLE: Yeah, they brought in a lot of great guys this year, a lot of guys that have talent, a lot of vets. But just coming in and playing my game, doing what the coaches ask me to do. Of course it's going to be a competitive nature, of course everybody wants to get out there on the court, but just being able to shoot the ball, I feel like that's a strength, and Klay is somebody who can shoot the ball. So I'm trying to use that to a strength. I feel like that's something that can get me on the floor.   
 Q.  I just wanted to ask you about something that's newsworthy today. The governor of California signed a bill that's going to allow college athletes to potentially be paid for their likenesses. Would that have affected you at all, and how do you think it potentially affects college sports in the future?  
JORDAN POOLE: I personally think it's huge, being able to have big names, people like Zion, Alonzo, stuff like that, being able to have players who can make money off their likeness. I know for sure I would have been using my name after that Houston shot, so I feel like that would have been something I would have been able to do. But I feel like it's a huge step in the right direction. I feel like it's a lot of money that college players make, and going to the organizations and the schools and universities. Being able just to have that pass in the state of California is just huge for the game.   
 Q.  This season is going to feature the most regular-season games in primetime in Europe. Just curious on your thoughts of the importance of growing the game internationally. There's already a big following, but just getting more and more growth for the game.  
JORDAN POOLE: Yeah, I think it's huge, especially with so many guys coming to play from Europe to the NBA. You've got Luka, we even have Alen on our team, to be able to have international diversity, also being able to watch it overseas, it gives kids at a younger age the urge, the motivation to want to be able to play in the NBA, so being able just to be globally and like you said have as many primetime games as we have, like you said, it's a huge step in the right direction, and it motivates so many people to want to come over here and play in the best league.   
 Q.  I remember talking to Devin Booker and him saying the day after he declared he got a lot of money from autograph signing. What do you think you missed out on, and for people that don't understand, what would you say the college athlete really is going through today, why this is necessary?  
JORDAN POOLE: Yeah, you know, I feel like in today's society, especially with the way that social media has taken a turn, there's so many people who have -- you have so many outreaches you can use your likeness for, your personality. You make money on Instagram for little ads and stuff like that, so being able to have the platform that we have as basketball players and finding a way to be able to make money how we do now is huge. In college it's something that obviously like is hidden, so you try to stay away from stuff like that, but now with it being open, you want to try to find a way to really use your personality to make money. In the NBA you're making money, it is what it is, but trying to find a way to use your personality and kind of just use your likeness to make money is something that I feel like is huge, and you kind of have to push it away a couple years ago, but now having it be accepted it will make things a lot easier.   
 Q.  Any idea what you think you could have potentially made?  
JORDAN POOLE: Man, not at all. Not at all. I haven't really thought about it. It's something I try not to think about, but I'll definitely leave that up to the young guys. It got me here, so I'm cool. I'm all right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT