NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Jordan Poole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you just talk about your style of play and what you'll bring to the new team?
JORDAN POOLE: Being able to shoot the three is a strength of mine, but also being able to be a 6'5" guard who can play on the ball, off the ball.  Being able to make the right decisions but also just knowing how to play the game the right way.  Make the right passes and make the next right play is something that I feel like I'm able to contribute to the team.
Q. Obviously we've watched a lot of Warriors the last few years.  You too?  If so, what are your impressions and how can you contribute there?
JORDAN POOLE: Yeah, the Warriors are an amazing team.  One of their strengths is their ability to shoot the three ball.  I feel like that's something that's changed the game.  Being able to shoot the three is a strength of mine.  Finding a way to come in and make an impact and being able just to learn from the guys is something that I'm definitely extremely excited for.
Q. There was a pretty loud contingent of people at Michigan that criticized you for leaving when you did.  Now having been picked in the first round, your response to them?
JORDAN POOLE: I think it was just being able just to trust myself, follow my dreams. Just having hope and faith.  That's all I'm going to really say on that.  Being able to be in the position I'm in now, I feel like I made the right decision.
Q. What do you think it's going to be like, that moment that you step on the floor in San Francisco, you look over, you've got Stephen Curry to your right?  What do you think that moment is going to be like?
JORDAN POOLE: It'll definitely be amazing.  Being able to know at the same time we're out there doing the same thing, and they're definitely going to teach me some stuff right away and they're definitely going to invite me into the league.  Being ready for all challenges, but more than anything just coming in ready to get to work and be excited.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT