FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 1999
Graham Marsh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GRAHAM MARSH: It does.

GRAHAM MARSH: On that basis of that, it must have been reasonably well, I suppose. But
I think I've had 67 here in the past, and several other rounds under 70. But I have felt
like I've been on the verge of playing reasonably well the last two or three weeks. And it
just hasn't come together for one reason or another. And today, it did. I must say, I was
reasonably happy with the timing of that. But the golf course played well. It was friendly
this morning, friendly than what we've known it in the past when the fairways were
becoming extremely hard and bouncy, and you'd have to be extremely careful where you
position the ball from the tee. But today, you could take the driver with more confidence
and get it out there because the fairways are just that little bit softer. And also, the
advantage of starting early, the greens were a little softer, so you have more opportunity
to get at some of the flag positions. But I guess the real turn -- not a turning point,
but a key to the round for me was birdieing three of the four par 3s. You make three 2s
out here with tight pin placements, then you've done extremely well. There were pin
placements that you could well be excused from for playing conservatively. But I just felt
like I had the right club in my hand each time, which is important when you're on a par 3
to know that you have the right club in your hand. So, often you can be in between clubs.
And I was able to make a free and easy swing. 12th, I hit it about four foot behind the
hole. At 8, about eight feet from the hole was a very good shot and at 15, with the pin
way in the back right, I was able to get it in there about 15 feet behind the hole. So
that was the key to scoring well because I didn't do any damage on the par 5s. I was never
in a position where I could go at any of the par 5s today. And the only birdie that I made
on the par 5 was at 17. So as I said, a couple on the par -- the par 4s which you might
well expect around here.

GRAHAM MARSH: First, I hit a poor second shot with a 9-iron and came up short of the
green. Had a difficult chip. Pitched it up about six feet and made that for a par. That
was a nice, sort of start to the day. Birdie at 4 from about 15 feet behind the hole. Next
hole, I hit an 8-iron there, and actually hit the back and finished two feet away and made
that for a three. And the other birdie at 8, where I hit a 5-iron about six feet from the
hole. The rest were pretty ordinary. And then I finished with a rush, the one at 15, about
12, 15 feet behind the hole, 4-iron again. Then at 16, I hit an 8-iron about eight feet
short of the hole and made that. And a sand wedge at 17, about eight feet from the hole --
behind the hole; so, no bogeys. The only time I really looked like making a birdie was at
the 1st, and the other time I could have gotten into trouble was 13. I had a 4-iron -- I
was in between clubs with my second shot, and nearly hit it in the water hazard with my
second shot, scrambled -- scrambled over the water and over the green, chipped it about
eight feet and made that for par.

Q. How often do you have par 3s as being a real key to your round?

GRAHAM MARSH: Well, you don't -- I think if you looked at this golf course, you really
do have four very good par 3s. Some golf courses you might have one long one and a couple
short ones and you sort of -- at the end of the week you're saying to yourself: If I could
play the par 3s say in a four-round tournament 5-, or 6-under par, you'd be reasonably
happy. Here, so many of the par 3s are very tight shots. And the other one, well, even 15
is not an easy shot to that green. Probably, the most difficult green of the whole lot of
them. But they are all potential bogies or double -- and the water holes, potential
double-bogey material. So, you're right on a fine edge with two of them here. And quite
honestly, I think if you go back and check the records of par 3s, they are usually the
holes -- unless they are short and easy, on a championship golf course, they are the ones
that you've really got to -- you find that you don't shoot a lot of low numbers on. You're
lucky if you play those at the end of the week more than 4-under par or something like
that.

Q. So as a group, they are the hardest holes on this course?

GRAHAM MARSH: I would say so, yeah. As a group, they are.

Q. Do you have a recollection of how you've played on the par 3s in the past?

GRAHAM MARSH: I know some of them I've played appalling with my doubles. I think I've
made a triple some years on one hole. But you can do that. Any time you've got water,
difficult greens, say for example, like the 12th hole here. If you started to lose it
there, you could be there all day on that hole, when they get the pin up on the back right
and you get into the wind and you're forced to go with a 3- or 4-iron. And the same could
apply at 8. 8's a nasty little hole. You've just got to be right short of it if you have
the right club. If you're a little bit too long, saving par off that back bank is
extremely difficult.

Q. You talked about the conditions of how good they were. Even so you are surprised at
the numbers?

GRAHAM MARSH: The thing that always surprises me is how low the numbers are on this
golf course. When you stand out there and you have a look at the golf course and you play
it for the first time and you see the potential trouble out there. And in the past, you
know, we've had hard fairways, and you're always faced with a little bit of breeze around
here. Rarely do you get a chance on this golf course and you see the numbers that they put
up there, 16-under par, 20 under par. I've never thought the golf course was that easy.
And I guess this year I was just -- and I could say the same about the Tradition, for that
matter, too. Some of the scores that they have been shooting at the Tradition have been
just incredible. And, I guess this year I've made up my mind that you have to be somewhat
aggressive around here and just get into a frame of mind where you have to think low. And
it's a little bit unusual to do that when you're playing in a major because usually what
happens is the reverse. Usually, you're thinking about saving pars. But, that certainly
hasn't been the case on this golf course in the past. I don't know -- I don't know how
many years they played here now. I think, ten. If you look back and averaged out what the
scores were over those ten, it's got to be something like 15- or 16-under par, I would
have thought.

Q. This is probably a dumb question but--

GRAHAM MARSH: You're going to ask it anyway, right?

Q. I had to stop wearing a wristwatch. When I write, my arm hurts Taking the wristwatch
off, it don't hurt. Now, I see you with a big wristwatch and a bracelet. Does that do
anything? Is that comfortable to you?

GRAHAM MARSH: I don't play with a wristwatch on.

Q. I wondered about that. I said: Look at the size of this man's wristwatch.

GRAHAM MARSH: I never play with a watch on, and I've never done that. And the other
thing is just a magnet.

Q. Second stupid question. Is it important what you put in your pocket, or what you
don't put in your pocket? I've got keys jangling and cards and now you must have to be
perfect out there to be comfortable. Do you put stuff in your pocket?

GRAHAM MARSH: I always carry something in my pocket.

Q. Give me a for instance?

GRAHAM MARSH: Just the minimum. A few coins and some tees and a handkerchief.

Q. They don't bother you?

GRAHAM MARSH: No. I don't carry the bank with me. A carry a couple, a few here and
there.

Q. Does this mean that you've had more success playing Nicklaus courses are you liking
them better, or does it mean anything at all?

GRAHAM MARSH: I think what I did was I've tried to make adjustments with my game over
the last few years to try and get a higher flight on the golf ball, and to try and get a
little more spin. And in most cases, high trajectory is related to spin anyway. So the two
go hand in hand. Yes, I've made a conscious effort to try and modify my game. As an
international player, and certainly where I came from in Perth, we played in a tremendous
amount of wind and you had to hit the ball low. If you don't hit the ball low, you
certainly didn't win amateur games. You could not hit your way around the golf course. And
that was even with a small ball which we were brought up on. And as a result of that,
that's been the pattern. And then playing in Europe and playing in Japan, you learn to hit
the ball low. That's the first priority. I think in the United States, the first priority
is to carry the ball over a long distance and learn to hit the ball high. Now, I think
it's probably been harder for -- but I do believe that players that have learnt to do
that, quality players that have learnt to do that can also learn to knock the ball down. I
think it's harder to go the other way to learn to hit the ball high or get the ball
airborne when you've been brought up by hitting the ball very low. I believe that would be
the case.

Q. Why is it more significant in America to get the ball low?

GRAHAM MARSH: Because the style of golf courses you play. You play -- I've described
the par 3s here where there is only one way to get is it on the green and that's to hit it
on the green. Now, par 3s in other parts of the world there would not be water --
nowadays, of course, design is changing those other parts of the world. But the old
traditional golf course, they would not have been that kind of hazard in front of the par
3. And you could always bounce the ball on. You could run the ball on the green. Being
precise with the club wasn't as important. And the other thing is the greens, the
configuration of the greens. You didn't have the angles in the green setup that you now
have on modern golf courses. The greens were either slightly angled or they might have
been round or they could have been oblong, peanut-shaped or different shaped. But if you
look at some of the different complexes out there they set them up so as to create
difficult pin positions to get at. And that has changed. It's changed in the last 20
years. There's no question about that.

Q. So the Tradition course and this course has some similarities, even though --

GRAHAM MARSH: I think most Nicklaus courses have similarities. I don't think there's
any secret with that. I think probably some of his modern design that I've seen is
probably a little different, but certainly when these golf courses were being created,
there's a great deal of similarity between the design.

Q. How come it took you so long to decide to learn how to hit it high?

GRAHAM MARSH: It didn't take me a long time to decide to do it. It took me longer to
achieve it. I always knew that I was -- I was always working on getting the ball higher
when I decided to come and play The SENIOR TOUR over here and I've been working on that
consistently. And perhaps it's started to payoff. There's been some down periods along the
way while is the it's been happening, of course. It's not been easy to make the switches,
as I said, it's much harder to go from hitting the ball low to hitting it higher in the
air. When you're a lowball hitter, that's the instinct. And I still hit it low compared to
a lot of players, but not as low as what I used to.

Q. Talk about how you're always surprised at how low the scores are here. Do you have
any theories? Do you have any guesses as to why that is?

GRAHAM MARSH: In my mind, I believe the reason for that is that you have a situation,
but go to this type of design where it's do-or-die. You either make a conscious decision
here to aim at those type pins, or you aim away from them. If you start aiming at them and
it comes off, you don't have lot of long birdie putts. You're close. The center of the
green that you aim into it is relatively small. And relatively -- relatively flat. So if
you start to -- if you're on with that part of the game, you're going to have a tremendous
number of short birdie putts in the course of a round. Now this is a style of golf. You
can theorize about this forever. The other thing that Jack has always done, he's always
liked to give the guy a chance to get on the par 5 in 2. So if you get the long hitters
around here that are on their game again with their driver, and they want to attack at
these greens, there's a great number of birdies for them. A huge number of birdie
opportunities for them if they are getting it somewhere near, they are going at the green.
So you can -- all of the sudden, these numbers start to get low because the guys are
getting a huge number of relatively short birdie putts. You're not going to make a great
number of long birdies putts around here, because you've got doom zones where you've got
the great big sweeping, swinging between one zone and the other. For example, a hole like
12, and you follow with a hole like 13. If you get in the wrong part of the green, you've
got the noose around your neck to 2-putt, let alone worrying about making it, and that's
the reason I think it happens.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT