SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2007
Graham Marsh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Two rounds of 73.  Were the conditions any different today than they were yesterday? 
 GRAHAM MARSH:  Oh, the conditions were a little friendlier today than yesterday.  Yesterday the wind was gusting I think probably another seven to 10 miles an hour harder.  Which really made a big difference on so many of the holes.  But having said that, it doesn't take a lot of wind to make this golf course play really tough.  And there are a number of back pins today, which are very, very difficult to get to.  And if you miss them, it's really hard to get it up-and-down.  So overall, the course played easier today, but not three shots or four shots easier. 
 Now, as the day goes on I think the greens are going to firm up, and getting close to make birdies again. 

 Q.  Were you happy with your tee time today do you think it's an advantage? 
 GRAHAM MARSH:  No, I don't think it's an advantage, because I think it's probably going to even out over the day.  Maybe the afternoon times, if the breeze dies down, maybe the afternoon times might get a little easier.  Maybe morning late might have had the advantage.  But you got to take it, you can't think that way when you're playing in a Major, you just got to try and go out there and particularly on a golf course like this, it's just survival and making the best you can on every hole and concentrate on every shot. 

 Q.  It's a difficult course, obviously everyone has said that but how much can you actually enjoy it when you're out there in the fight? 
 GRAHAM MARSH:  Difficult to enjoy this golf course.  Because you're living on a knife's edge the whole way.  There is a fine line between disaster and brilliance here. 
 When you have that in the back of your mind all the time, the moment you sort of let your guard down, the moment you relax, the moment you take your mind off and enjoy the scenery or whatever, that's the moment it's going to grab you. 
 So I don't think that anybody could really say that they're walking around here enjoying the scenery.  Everyone is walking around here just grinding to try and save themselves from disaster. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT