U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 1994
Graham Marsh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Pretty easy, two birdie's and two bogey's.  I  guess you all saw the bogey.  Birdie at the third from  about 8 feet, with a pitching wedge from the left rough  and birdie at 16.  When I knocked on the green with a  4-wood, 2 putted from 30 feet.  Tried to 3-putt, I think  you should write that down, but I only 2-putted.  But it  was a pretty interesting day to be out there watching  that.  In between it all watching Simon and Jim go at  it.  And, I guess, when you start a day like I did today  when I am that many behind, two things either got to  happen. I had to play very well and put pressure on them,  or they had to come back to me.  And they did everything  right in that regard.  Simon bogeyed the first 3 holes  and Jim struggled the first couple there and made a  double bogey at -- all of a sudden they are back.  I  didn't do anything special, but they are back within  range.  And, I guess, I thought the championship  was over when Simon made the birdie out of the boondocks  there on, I guess it is 13, it is the par 4 up the hill  and he made that birdie.  I thought, well, that is the  championship.  Now, it is a question of who runs second  and third, and I guess Jim and myself were the obvious  people to do that.  And then all of a sudden things  started happening again action double bogey, bogey,  bogey, bogey, and all of a sudden it is a new ball game.  So, it was just almost a little bit of a shock to  suddenly be there and find myself there equal leader of  the golf tournament.  It's one of those things that can  happen, but you know that is what you want to happen,  although you don't particularly like to see it happen in  that way, where other guys are, sort of, giving it away.  So that was the position.  The only bogey  I made all day was 18.  I guess, if I had my time again,  I would go back and hit a 6-iron, not a 5-iron.  I was  anxious to get the ball all the way back to the hole,  although I knew the pin was only on the front, but in my  anxiety to get it up to the hole I went for the extra  club, the 5, and in hind sight, I think, I could have  probably got it with 6 and my miss with 6 wouldn't have  been anywhere as bad.  If it didn't get on the green it  would have been on that front section there.  That would  have been a much easy section to get it up and down  because I could have putted it or something else with  it.  It was an exciting day, I think -- but just wasn't  to be.   
 

Q.  What was your yardage on 18?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  I had 157 to the front, but I figure that I  had 170 -- 165 to the hole, that is what I had.  But it  plays a little up hill and there was a little breeze in  our face not totally in our face, probably on the left  coming in from the left to right.  The ball was just --  it was against the grass, which is also another reason  why I went with the 5-iron sitting against the grain and  sometimes if you try and hit it too hard when the ball is  sitting against the grain like that, you can stub the  club into the ground or hit it just a little bit fat and  lose that shot.  The ball was also a little bit below my  feet.  I felt it was going to fade out that lie a little  bit.  I was trying to put 80% 5-iron swing on it.  Didn't  come off.  And the chip -- I went with the sand iron  because it was sitting well.  But I did hit that a little  fat to get it -- not to get it up there.   
 

Q.  Can you talk about your putting today, you  seemed to leave several putts short?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Yeah, I guess that happens, I tend to do  that.  I would have to class myself as a defensive  putter.  I mean, you have only got to get a look at the  stats; I hit a lot of greens in regulation and keep it in  the fairway most of the time.  So I get a little  defensive on my putts.  And of course, coming out this  morning, and as from yesterday too, where you got all  that water on the greens, you start -- when you come back  in the afternoon, you always feel that these things are  going to be a little quicker when they are drying out.  You just don't want to be knocking three, four foot  passed and leaving yourself the ones over those awkard  spike marks that we had out there this afternoon. I  didn't hit the ball firmly enough this afternoon.  The  few chances that I had earlier on, I was getting the ball  sort of four, five inches passed the holes.  That is not  enough.  You really need to be hitting it about eight or  nine inches past the hole to keep it on line, but  particularly when the greens get like this and they are  drying out.   
 

Q.  Graham, what was going through your mind when  you saw Simon struggling out there on the front 9 and  last five holes?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  I hate to see guys blow golf tournaments, and  I mean, if we tied today and gone out there and I had won  tomorrow, I mean, I don't think anyone of you would be  sitting down, seriously, tomorrow night saying that I won  the golf tournament.  I think you'd probably be saying  that Simon Hobday blew the golf tournament.  I don't like  to see that happen.  And I am not saying that I backed off  because I didn't want to see it happen.  But, you know,  Simon really played fantastically well yesterday and when  he came back this morning and went out.  When he was 15  under par standing on that 17th tee, he had the golf  tournament right in his hand.  Never looked like anyone  else was going to win it.  I mean, Jim could have won it  if he played very well today or this afternoon.  But, you know, I think just one of those  things.  I just don't like to see guys blow a golf  tournament.   
 

Q.  How long was the putt on 18?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  18, it was about 14 feet.   
 

Q.  Did you see Simon give himself the choke sign  coming up 18?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Well, he had done it a few times before he got  on the 18th.  In fact, one time I thought he killed  himself.    
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT