U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 1994
Graham Marsh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GRAHAM MARSH:  Yes.  

GRAHAM MARSH:  Well, I guess the first thing is that we  obviously got the advantage of the rain delay, because it  quieted the greens down, didn't have the spike marks that  were staring at us in the face after the five holes.  Nice one at the second from about 30 feet  which was a nice hole to birdie, obviously, being one of  the tougher ones, on the tough side.  Just prior to the  rain delay, hit it in about just over two yards from the  hole at 5 and went back out for the rain delay and made  that.  9 I hit a 7-iron in about twelve feet.  Backside it was-- basically all birdie  chances except 17 where I missed the green; put it in the  back bunker, hit it out just under a yard.  And 18 missed, the green left, put one of  the little ridges on the left side of the green; tossed  it off  and 2-putted that from down the bank.  A nice start.  No bogeys out there today  which is always nice if you can keep those off the card  around here because sometimes birdies are hard to buy on  the backside.  


Q.  Were the greens like dartboards?  

GRAHAM MARSH:  Very much so.  They were easier than what they  were yesterday morning when we played, so, yeah, it was  real in the throwing darts stuff.  And if you can zero in  with your iron shots, you had every advantage out there  this afternoon.  The biggest advantage, that you are  getting the ball reasonably close, you didn't have the  spike marks to contend with.  Of course, when you get  late in the day at an Open Championship, when you got  154, 56 out there, players, that is a huge advantage.  So  there is no question that the morning players and the  afternoon players had the advantage of the times.  


Q.  During the rain delay, obviously it didn't  affect you, but what were you thinking and when you saw  they were going to play again were you glad and said,  okay, I am going for the bench?  

GRAHAM MARSH:  Yeah, you get -- I have always done poorly  with rain delays, but I don't know, I must be getting  smarter, I don't know, last few times I have come back  over here; you get a lot of rain delays at this time of  the year in this country on this circuit, and it is just  a question of what you do mentally when you are in those  rain delays and I try and keep myself warm and try and go  and stretch a little bit and just get back there and hit  the balls.  But I knew the putt I had -- I lined the putt  at 5, before I went out-- sorry, 6, before I went out  there; I knew it was a little to right to left breaker so  I hit about ten of those on the putting green before I  went back and holed the putt.  So I knew exactly what --  I was feeling pretty confident because I slaughtered  about 6 out of 10 before I went back out there.  That was  a nice little boost because you can so often have that  length to pass and miss it and then get agitated.  


Q.  How long was it?  

GRAHAM MARSH:  Just over 2 meters.  


Q.  Were you impressed how quickly the course  drained?  

GRAHAM MARSH:  Yeah, but I noticed that the other day, there  was a lot of rain here on Monday.  We went out Tuesday  morning and it was just like they had the sprinklers out  overnight.  It is very impressive golf territory.  You  can't help but be impressed with it.  


Q.  If you weren't playing so well, would the  softer greens have helped you if you weren't hitting your  drivers and irons as well?  

GRAHAM MARSH:  Well, I think the difference between golf in  the United States and golf in other parts of the world is  that you usually playing much more target golf over  here,  if you want to generalize.  I know you can say  U.S. Opens and more recently at The Masters that you have  had a little bit of bounce in the green there, but if you  were to just generalize about American golf, it is more  of throwing darts.  I think that the players over here  have come to adjust to that.  That is why the scores are  always so low.  I mean, when you are playing in the U.K.  or Australia, you get on the sand belt courses there; we  have got a lot of sand belt courses down there; it is  just not the same golf.  It is like playing at Oakmont,  so you start to get a lot more defensive.  That is one of  the adjustments I had to make when I came back here this  year playing on the Senior Tour; I had to become more  aggressive with the iron play because you do tend to get  very defensive when you are playing on hard and fast  greens.  There is no question scoring is much more  difficult when you are playing under those conditions.  I  mean, you only got to look at the U.S. Opens and Masters  this year to see what happens to scores when you get  those types of conditions.  


Q.  Obviously you have won a lot during your  career.  You haven't won since 1990.  Are you getting  anxious to win and how do you handle that?  

GRAHAM MARSH:  Yeah, of course I am getting anxious to win.  I mean, I came over here to play on the Senior Tour --  you don't come over here for holiday.  There is plenty of  places in the world to do that.  I am keen to win.  And  particularly I felt like I had a chance in a couple of  Majors and I didn't win them.  Of course, you guys make  it that way, that the Majors are everything in golf.  Not  everybody totally agrees with it.  But that is the  history of the situation.  And Majors are very important  and of course you want to win.  I have a fire there to  want to win this week.  And whether it is -- whether you  are 50 years of age or 46 or 47 or 40, I mean, when you  have been through the ropes, and you are a competitive  person, that is what you come out here for.  


Q.  Have you played with Hobday much?  

GRAHAM MARSH:  Yeah, I have played a lot with Hobday.  


Q.  Are you pretty familiar with his game and how  do you think he will stand up over the weekend?  

GRAHAM MARSH:  Hobday is a very impressive player.  I mean,  if you talk about a guy being able to drool (sic) the  flag out when he gets on a roll, he just knocks it out  all day.  And I mean, there is no telling what he is  likely to do.  He is capable of shooting very low  numbers.  Let me say having had that rain this afternoon  I think that that is what is going to happen tomorrow,  maybe Sunday will be a little different; if we get a  little sun and little breeze tomorrow.  But certainly  tomorrow morning, the players that go out there are  really going to have a lot of fun being able to toss it  in the hole.  Somebody, I think, is going to shoot a very  low score and Hobday is one of the players that is  capable of doing that, obviously.  


Q.  What about his antics and stuff on the  European Tour; were you witness to anything there?  

GRAHAM MARSH:  I saw my fair share of it, yeah.  


Q.  You have seen him get naked in a bar?  

GRAHAM MARSH:  I think you better ask him that question.  That is fairly touchy stuff.  It was when he didn't have  his gear on.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT