U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 1994
Graham Marsh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Right.  Do you want the clubs for the  birdies?   
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  6 footer the first.  About 8 feet the third.  Fourth was oh, 20 centimeters, I suppose,  less than a foot.  Then around at 7 was just a meter or so.  Yeah, a meter.  And then the next was a par.  The par 5  we hit it on the 2 and 2-putted.  The two bogeys came  from the bad drive at 13 and missed the green at 18.   
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Well, I think the key to it is getting off to  a very good start.  I mean, to take advantage of the  morning conditions is really what I was trying to do.  It  is always nice to get away around early tee time in a  major on the first day.  I mean, 99 point 9 percent of  the time that is, I think -- I personally believe that is  the big advantage because you get the greens in the best  conditions, particularly when you get a little bit  overnight rain like we had last night, with more than a  little, I guess.  The greens are always going to be not  as fast and they are going to hold.  So, the fire was out of the course this  morning.  We were able to throw the iron shots at the  flag and I just wanted to take advantage of it.  I  certainly did on the front 9.  Played a little scrappy  there with a couple of one tee shot, particularly at the  12.  But after that, everything went along according to  hole.   
 

Q.  What was it early that made you feel like you  were off to a really good start; any particular thing  happen?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  No, just that, you know, I knew that -- I  guess after the last few weeks, I know it is Pinehurst  Number 2, and I know that this course can be particularly  difficult.  You get a little bit of breeze and the greens  get firm, and the way the greens are set, I know that it  can be very difficult.  But what we have been playing in  the last few weeks, I mean, the scores that the guys have  been shooting, in my mind, I felt that I had to be under  70 today to be anywhere near the lead.  I 18 under par,  17 under par and they haven't been on scrub of golf  courses.  They have been on pretty good golf courses, so  I, guess mentally, everybody sort of attuned to getting a  way to shooting low scores.  Of course, those first few  holes, are the scoring holes on this golf course.  Down  wind of the first and it is only a drive and an 8-iron  and the par 5, you can get pretty close for 2 and  certainly, the third hole.  So I had short irons there  and I just hit four very good shots into those holes.  And hit it, I mean, it wasn't the putting that did it.  It's just the iron shots.  So even mentally we are all  geared up, I guess, the scoring has been so low over the  last few weeks.   
 

Q.  Did you feel more comfortable with your iron  shots than any other part of your game today?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Not particularly.  I drove the ball pretty  well. I hit one drive in the rough with, I think.  I  probably hit all the fairways, other than one.  So, you  know, I drove it in position; drove it where I should  have been and that gave me the opportunity to attack the  flags, which is what you are looking to do.  The one  driver that I did hit in the rough I made bogey from  that.  The other bogey came from the missed iron shot at  18 where I was sort of in between clubs.   
 

Q.  What is your feeling on how difficult it is  out there and what might be a good score today?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Well it wasn't difficult today, and I am --  frankly, I am surprised that there aren't more players  under par.  But as I said, the key to the golf course is  getting away to that good start on those opening holes  because as you get into the middle there, you run into a  series of the 2 par -- the other par threes the end of  the back 9 so you run into that hole series of par 4s  there, plus the par 5 that you can't reach in 2.  So  going in there with those longer clubs, is 5-irons, 6 and  7-irons.  You really have to hit the ball very, very  accurately if you want to get it close to those pins when  it is sticky like it was today.  So, you know, I am surprised that the  scores aren't lower, but I guess it is just some of the  guys didn't take advantage of the morning conditions.   
 

Q.  Graham, do you come into this tournament with  a different mindset being that it's a Senior Open?  USGA  usually sets up the courses tougher than the other events  you have.  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Yes, I did.  But I think when I arrived here,  I was pleasantly surprised with the setup of the golf  course.  I think the USGA haven't tried to break our  backs this week.  They have kept the fairways at, I would  say, generous.  Maybe they were expecting warmer weather  and firmer greens.  Maybe they weren't expecting these  sort of damp conditions that we are experiencing here  now.  But overall, it is generous, and it is there to be  had if you play well.  But as far as setting my own mind to it,  I have been around most of the last few weeks.  I have  sort have been in the top 10 and just haven't been able  to finish it off.  So, I have been feeling pretty  confident about the way I have been playing, and I  certainly like this golf course.   
 

Q.  How did you get ready for this tournament?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Well, see, I have been playing in Japan on the  regular tour there, so I have been playing my 25  tournaments a year on the Japanese tour and four, five  tournaments in Australia.  So, I have been playing the  regular tour on the other circuits of the world, and that  keeps you competitive.   
 

Q.  What is your history here at Pinehurst?  Have  you played here many times before this?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Only once I played here in a World Open.  I  can't remember which year -- it wasn't the 8th rounder  that they had here, but I think the next year was -- they  had another World Open and that was the one that I played  in.   
 

Q.  Do you remember how you did there?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  No, but I made the cut and I played the four  days, but I can't remember where I finished.  But it  wasn't, you know, somewhere in the middle of the field, I  guess.   
 

Q.  Would you just run through 18 and what  happened there?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  I hit a perfect drive at 18.  I was delighted  with the position and everything was well down there.  I  had 165 to the hole, and for me it was a toss up between  a 6 and a 5.  I knew the pin was right into that front  position, and I took the 5.  But in my mind, I just  didn't sort of make a commitment to the shot; try and hit  it hard enough, and sort of came out of it at the last  moment and pitched it on the bank, ran it down to the  right flag high, and putted it up the bank which is one  of the options that you got; either putt it or pitch it.  So, I went for the putter, hit it about 8 feet, I guess,  and missed it on the left side.   
 

Q.  That same length as it was on 14?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  At 14?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Where I made -- where I got it up and down?   
 

Q.  Yeah.  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  No, that was a dum thing to do.  I went for  the 7-iron instead of the 6 and pulled it left, that is  what happened there.  But the putt through the fringe was  much more difficult than the one at 18.  But the putt was  about the same length, the one that -- the one on 14 that  I hold, yeah.   
 

Q.  You had said a couple of weeks ago even though  you are recognized internationally, nobody here knows who  you are and are you finding that they are starting to  know who you are?  
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  Well, yeah unless they can't read, they  should.   
 
GRAHAM MARSH:  I guess so.  No, it is nice.  I think there is  so much interest in the Senior Tour, and I guess people  go down -- I mean, I do it when I am looking at other  sports.  You go down the list of names, you sort of go  down, the 10 or 15 beyond that you just don't read.  So,  I guess, yeah, I think it is starting to happen.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT