NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 19, 2015
Victor Hedman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about what in your game has been working for you?   
VICTOR HEDMAN:   Well, it sounds great.   Like I said, even before the playoffs, I got hurt early in the year, but hopefully I can have a jump in my legs and feel fresh.   And that's how I feel.   I feel fresh, and I feel like I can play my game and play a lot of minutes.   So the game feels good.   It's obviously way easier to play when we play like we did last night.   
   
 Q.   Has your game evolved in the last couple of years?   Have you felt it evolve?   
VICTOR HEDMAN:   Yeah, absolutely.   It feels like stepping on to the ice, I feel confident in my game, I feel confident on both ends of the ice, and that's kind of the way I want to play, like I said earlier.   Last year was a big step in the right direction, and I'm trying to build on that this year.   It's obviously a lot easier when we play with such great players and guys we have on this team right now.   It's easier to take my game to the next level.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about that save you had last night?   
VICTOR HEDMAN:   Well, you know, things happen in a game, and we played behind the net there, and Bish got stuck.   He's bailed me out so many times through the season, he's bailed me out a few times, so it was my turn to return the favor.  
   
 Q.   Is there a big difference in you between now and 2011?   
VICTOR HEDMAN:   A huge difference.   That was only my second year in the league and, you know, 20 years old.   I really didn't know what to expect, and now I feel like I've been here for a long time.   I've been able to (Indiscernible) from that year, and I feel like I want to take responsibility.   I want to be a leader.   I want to be a difference maker on the ice.   
Coming into these playoffs that's kind of the way I approach it and approach the game.   You know, play at a high level throughout the playoffs, and even though it's going to be a lot of ups and downs, you have to stay focused and prepare for the next game.   Same goes right now.   It was a big win for us yesterday, but we had to turn around and refocus, and it was obviously a better feeling waking up this morning and getting on this flight.   But we've got to refocus.   It's a big turn around and big game tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You guys learned from being able to kind of carry it over?   
VICTOR HEDMAN:   Yeah, absolutely.   I think especially there are four teams left.   There are a lot of good teams, and we don't have time for that.   We've got to stay focused and play the same way like we did yesterday, especially at the start of the game.   Even though it took a lot of penalties to gain some momentum off those kills and being able to score that big goal by Johnny there.   That is kind of the way we need to approach tomorrow.   We're all excited about going back home and playing in front of our fans.   We can tell they're excited too.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT