AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 13, 2016
Freddie Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round today.  What went right for you?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Well, part of the day was really cold today, in the beginning.  This course, obviously, you play well, you're going to have a lot of chances.  But it didn't feel that easy at all times today.  So I was kind of happy with the way I played.
I drove it really well.  Down the last few holes, I started getting into a little bit of trouble.  But until then, I played really solid.  So, I think that setup the key, then down the back nine I putted really well.  So I think that that was kind of it.
Q. So you played Pebble really well earlier this week.  What are your thoughts for tomorrow?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Well, Phil's playing really well, obviously, he shot 6-under there today.  So he's a few shots ahead.  So I'm going to have to go low tomorrow if I want to have a chance to win.  So, that's my goal.  I'm going to have to have another good one like I did Thursday.  So hopefully come out hot and get myself in the mix tomorrow.
Q. You got two top-5 finishes already this year.  What's been the secret?  And is there anything in particular you're working on?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Well, I think that I worked really hard coming into the season because I was gone for five months last year.  So I think I got some good training done with my team and working out and eating well and stuff like that.  So I think I came in pretty well prepared in the fall.
And then made a few adjustments with Callaway.  We worked on the equipment a little bit more than I have in the past over the break.  Johnny, one of the guys there, came down and we worked on the driver and kind of adjusted the loft a little bit and got me into one of the new models.  That's worked really well to keep it in play.
So, if I can drive the ball good, when I'm on my iron play and my putting and that is normally pretty good.  So that's been the key, I think, for these top-5 weeks that I've been kind of rolling around a little more steady.  So that's kind of what I'm looking for.
Q. Your last win was 2011, Travelers Championship.  I'm sure you would like to get back in the winner's circle.
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I badly want to get back there.  I'm determined to give myself a chance.  I really want to win before the Masters and get back in the Masters, too.  So that's my goal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT