AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 11, 2016
Freddie Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great way to start the tournament, 65.  What was working well for you out there?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Well, I think that pretty much everything after the first few holes.  I missed the first four greens, got those up-and-down, which is always, I didn't play last week, so I was away skiing for a week, so I hadn't played until yesterday, so you always wonder about your short game.  I played yesterday, I didn't feel great about my putting, didn't really get to chip a whole lot.  But I did some, took some extra time, normally I'm a quick warmer upper, I spend like 30 minutes, but I came here an hour and 20 before and spent some time on that short game before I went.  I was glad that kind of carried over for the first few holes and once I started to play well, then I took advantage of it.
Q. Coming off a good finish at Torrey Pines, do you think that helped to carry you over and get in a good start this week?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I think so.  I definitely am feeling good with a few areas like I worked with Callaway over the winter to get into the new driver.  We also worked on testing with add ago little loft.  I always played very low loft.  So we added a little loft to it.  So I felt like I hit the ball pretty good and in play at Torrey Pines.
Not having swung a club for eight days coming in yesterday, I obviously didn't know how I was going to hit the ball.  But we put a new wedge in play at Torrey Pines that worked really well around the greens and in the bunkers, so kind of feeling good about that, because I struggled a bit at Palm Springs around the greens.  So I went back to a wedge that I used to use and that seemed to work well.
Q. When you have a top finish like that at Torrey Pines, does it make it a little easier knowing you're going to take the next week off and get right back into competition?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: You never know.  I just always take one day at a time and try my hardest.  And sometimes you shoot an 80 in the pro-am the day before and you go out there and shoot 8-under the next day, or vice versa, so I don't really tie it too much together.  Obviously, you feel good about if you got some good work in and you have some momentum, but you still never know, really, what the next day is going to bring.  You just got to try your hardest.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT