FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 1, 2016
Freddie Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It looked brutal out there for you guys.  
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I think you got -- wind was obviously tough the whole round.  I think then it switched.  So yesterday we had it southwest, south, southwest, and then just as we were on 12 today making the turn coming back it was northwest.  So it was a lot of holes into the wind.  It played tough.   
But, yeah, I think that I gave myself a chance, at least I think my mistake was on 15.  225 yards into a hard crosswind, I had to go 3-wood or 5-wood, I had a 3-wood that I couldn't get up-and-down.  I figured if I could get away with a four there and having to play 16 and 18 felt like the two pins that were a little bit more accessible.  But overall very, very happy.   
That's just a tough course and it's a tough course for me.  It's long, and obviously with these conditions, if you would have said before that I was going to be in contention at Torrey Pines on the South Course I would probably by a lottery ticket.  So very happy.   
 Q.  When you went to sleep, how did you change your mindset or anything like that, knowing the conditions that you were going to play in?  
FREDDIE JACOBSON: I looked in the book and just looked at the prevailing wind, kind of figuring out how those holes were going to play knowing that I had to make a couple of birdies.  I knew I had a tough kind of up-and-down to start the morning with, with a short pin and little green to work with.   
So probably knew I had to, after that, keep it clean and make a couple of birdies coming in, so I kind of looked at that.  But you know how it is, you look at those things, it never really plays out the way you look at it.  But, yeah, no, so prepared the best I could and gave it my best.   
 Q.  Somebody said this is a U.S. Open course with British Open weather.  Would that be a good way to describe it?  
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I think so.  I think that I'm impressed we got it done in these conditions.  What Brandt did yesterday was very impressive.  To go out there and shoot 3-under par, he's a very worthy champion.  It looks like he might be winning or it's a tight race, maybe a playoff.  But a heck of a way to finish off and bring it home, come from behind there and get it done.  That's the thing, in these conditions, you go out early and you put a score up, it's hard for the guys fighting it out now.   
 Q.  Have you seen like what 15, you said the hole, but with the tree down, 9, 12, I mean, just all the trees down --  
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I seen that.   
 Q.  Have you ever seen that before in a tournament from the night before?  
FREDDIE JACOBSON: No, not like that.  Yeah, you couldn't see the green anymore there.  The left piece that you were aiming for, you just saw the tree is so thick over there.  But that's a massive tree.  I mean, that tree has given us plenty of struggles through the years.  This time the tree was struggling a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT