FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 30, 2016
Freddie Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What has been the key for you here?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: I think driving.  With the kind of rough we play here, you got to keep it in play.  I managed that pretty good these three days.
Putting, I haven't made as many putts as I would have liked.  It was a bit slow today for a long time.  Yesterday, same thing.  I think a lot of guys probably feel that same way, that it's tricky greens, so you got to stay patient.
Q. Happy with where you are on that leaderboard?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I mean it's Torrey Pines South.  I'm 41 years old, to be in contention coming into Sunday for me it's nice here.  I've always liked playing here, but I also know that it's tough conditions and it's probably doesn't normally plays into the long hitters.  So if I'm going to be in there Sunday, I need to keep hitting those fairways.
Q. Do you treat the final round, by being in contention, do you prepare for it mentally just like you would any other final round if you weren't in contention or is it different?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: I don't know any different.  I try my hardest every day, that's kind of what I try to do.  So I always try to prepare the same way.  So, that way it keeps it easier, I know what to do.
But tomorrow it's definitely looking like it will be a little bit of a different animal tomorrow with the wind and rain.  So we'll see what it brings.
Q. And a congested leaderboard, too, because there's a lot of guys right there fighting for the lead here.  When you're into a final round like that, as a veteran, give me the excitement, the fun level that it has for you as you approach the day.
FREDDIE JACOBSON: I think tomorrow, with the kind of conditions and this kind of course, I think that you can't really get too carried away and get too excited.  It's one shot at a time and just try to hang in there and by the looks of it, I think that you got to be patient, everybody's going to make mistakes tomorrow.  It's packed up there, anybody can win it tomorrow.  So, just hopefully play well tomorrow and hang in there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT