FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2016
Freddie Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very consistent.  A 69, 69.  Are you happy with that or disappointed with the score on the North Course?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: No, I think I was really happy with the way I played.  I do wish I would have made one or two more putts coming in the last six holes.  I had probably five good chances on the last six holes, but didn't manage to make the putts.  I hit a lot of good putts, I hit a lot of fairways, so that's promising.  The rough is thick, so it helps to hit the fairways.
Q. You got a nice little boost on the par-5s, then back to back you go eagle, birdie.
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, both those are short enough to where I think I had 3-wood in on the first one and 4-iron on the second one.  But, yeah, I needed something to happen at that point.  I was even for the round, so that really got it together.
Q. I think of you as one of the better putters on the PGA TOUR.  Did you make any adjustments for poa annua this week?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: I don't really know how to.  I asked somebody early in the week, I said, are you doing anything different and all that, but actually the greens are, we played first today, they were really nice.
Yesterday I thought they were really good at the South Course, too.  Probably as good as I've seen them.  So, so far I think they have been running well.  I kind of putt the same way as I always do.  I don't really know how to change it much.
Q. How is your little boy doing?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: He's doing great.  We're getting ready for skiing next week.  We're heading up to Whistler.  They will be flying out there tomorrow.  So I'll meet them once I'm done here.
Q. Room for a trophy on the flight?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: There definitely would be.
Q. Back to back 69s, are you satisfied with 6-under through two rounds here?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Oh, yeah, very much.  Especially on the South Course.  It's always tough.  I think yesterday I kept it in play really well there, so I didn't really have any big mistakes.
Today I was in the rough a few more times, but hit a lot of fairways again and had a lot of chances coming in.  So maybe today I could have had a couple more out of it, coming down the stretch.  But it was a really solid round, so that's nice.
Q. What was the difference, was there a difference between the two rounds, I know different courses, but in your play?
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Not much, actually.  I think I've been driving it pretty good, I think that's been the key.  I made a little adjustment before the week on my driver.  I always kind of played kind of low loft.  I tweaked it up and I added, adjusted it and added one degree of loft.  I kind of figured if I got a little more spin on the ball maybe I could control it a little better.
I was driving it sloppy down on Sunday in Palm Springs, it got really poor.  So I wanted to adjust something.  So I had a little tweak there and it seems like it's been working well so far.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT