THE RSM CLASSIC
November 20, 2015
Freddie Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Describe the feeling you have getting back in the mix, being in the mix.  
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, it's huge.  Obviously was gone for five months there, and even before then I wasn't really contending.  Apart from Phoenix was my only week where I really felt like I was somewhere close to it.   
So to last week be in it and put myself back in a situation where I'm around the top, this week coming into the weekend again, it's huge.  Not so much for the outcome, but to get back in there and play in those circumstances.   
I'm very pleased with that.  I worked extremely hard the last few months to get ready for the season.  I knew it was going to be tough.  I knew I had five tournaments to play in the fall, and not having played for such a long time I knew it was going to be hard work to put myself in a position.   
So very, very happy to kind of have had a few good rounds the last couple weeks.   
 Q.  From a broad perspective, what is the difference between you now and a year ago?  
FREDDIE JACOBSON: I mean, a year ago I think coming into call it last season or beginning of this season wasn't easy for me.   
I had first some struggles with the lungs after the Colorado event and the playoff, so I was kind of out with for two, three months.  Went down and played Mexico, my only fall event, and then I had two surgeries right after that where I got cut up in the abdomen.   
Then I went straight back into tournaments as soon as I came back from that.  So I never really had a chance to work on any of my basics or strength work or anything like that.  I felt really weak through the season.   
So I knew when I was gone now that I had a chance to put in a bit of work on the physical side and kind of try to tighten that mid-section up a little bit again and get into better shape.   
 Q.  From everything that and your family went through with Max, if you could describe it now since you've some out of the tunnel in a positive way, what would you say?  
FREDDIE JACOBSON: You know, it was a rough time.  There's a lot that goes on in your mind.  The good thing for us is that Max is a pretty cool customer, so he handled it really well.  Obviously it's tough on everybody in the family, so a lot of meetings and a lot of which way do you pick and what path do you go and who do you see and where do you go for surgery and things like that.   
A lot of decisions.  He was involved the whole way and in every single meeting we had, and handled it very well.  We kind of picked the paths of letting him in on everything that was going on what they were going to do and all that stuff.   
I was amazed how he dealt with it all.  Just happy that he's doing well.  Was back playing soccer a week ago for the first time in a year, so was that exciting.   
 Q.  Sorry to take you back those tough moments, but when you were in it, were you more optimistic or pessimistic?  
FREDDIE JACOBSON: No, I mean, I was lucky I had so many people around that we got to speak with and meet and all that.  You have to stay optimistic.  That's the only thing you really can do.  You wish you didn't have to go through all that and that Max didn't have to go through all that obviously.   
But that was the circumstance.  We were kind of lucky to find out.  It was one of those things that can show up later without any warning, so we were lucky to find out.  We were happy about that, about having the chance to make a decision.  A lot of people unfortunately never get that chance.   
It's one of the defects that you can have a sudden death from when you exercise.  He loves to exercise, so unfortunately he was kind of a candidate for that.   
Luckily we found out and could do something about it.   
 Q.  Great.  Finally, through everything you and your family went through, has there been a perspective shift at all in your life for you?  
FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I think so.  I made quite a few changes, like focusing even more on -- we're going to Cabo next week for example for Thanksgiving.  It's a vacation with another family.  We're looking forward to that.   
Booking some vacation trips.  That's easy to forget to do when you live a busy lifestyle and you travel a lot anyway.  It's easy to just feel like you want to be home when you have some time off.   
Really made sure to kind of book some nice stuff for the kids and make sure we spend some quality time doing stuff outside the house.   
Looking forward to that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT