ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2014
Matthew Baldwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under par 67, any particular aspect of your game key to the good scores today?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, I putted nicely.   The majority of the time I kept it in the fairway and I hit a lot of greens, so a good combination like that, you're going to shoot low.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel in practise that there was a good one coming?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, back end of last year, I played nice in Nelson Mandela and just hopefully continue to do so, so, yeah, it's been a nice preparation, and five days in the sun last week helped.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned the second place at Nelson Mandela there, how valuable is it for a guy like that to get a good check‑up and good performance?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, definitely.   It's given me confidence to go on and hopefully keep challenging and maybe a win is around the corner, you never know.   
   
 Q.   Third season on Tour, what sort of goals and targets have you set yourself this year?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I want to win.   There's plenty of guys that obviously they want to win, as well, but I think looking at the year ahead, Top 60 is a target but definitely to get a win under the belt would be superb.   
   
 Q.   How good is 5‑under par around here?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, it was good.   I holed a lot of putts, which was nice.   Kept the ball out of the rough and hit a lot of greens, so to hole the putts and have the other parts of your game quite strong as well, you're going to shoot low.   It was good.  
   
 Q.   First competitive round of the season, so I guess you're not entirely sure what to expect.   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, I played with Graeme Storm and I said to him on the first tee, seems a bit unusual, this.   Yeah, I've been hitting it nicely, so stay a bit patient and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   How much of a break did you have, any practise, change in routine?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I virtually did nothing from the moment I got back from South Africa to the moment I got on the plane to go in Dubai,   a 2 1/2 week break, it was lovely.   It's been a good break.   
   
 Q.   Got things all sorted for 2014?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I planned a rough schedule but things change, don't they, so we'll see where it takes us.   I roughly know what I'm doing, have a good team behind me so all in good shape.   
   
 Q.   Presumably confidence is one of those things that comes and goes, but you ought to be happy about the state of your game just in general terms given the way that you played last season?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, tee‑to‑green it's been strong for a while, so the weeks I have where I have good short game is the weeks that I do well in.   You've got to have good short game around here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT