BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2013
Matthew Baldwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Again, solid on the back nine and holed a few putts.   On 11, I hit it through the back of the green in two and it was a really tough chip shot and hit it stone dead, so kick started things, good, solid day.   
Julian, my caddie, said anything past the flag will be in the water and I hit the chip shot and it's come off quite quick and it's gone two foot past, so good lag.   It was a turning point, and then the birdie on 12, 16 and 18 coming in, so good strong finish.   
   
 Q.   You're getting increasingly comfortable in this kind of position?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, it's hard to say anyone's comfortable, but you know, you keep doing the right things, and your chances come.   
   
 Q.   You must learn from the experience, as well?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Exactly, yeah, touched on that yesterday, we said that you learn from your mistakes and you learn from the amount of times you put yourself in these situations.   
   
 Q.   And this is a lovely situation to be 14‑under par into the final round?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, definitely.   I think I'm one behind, I don't know what the group behind is doing, but great position for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's necessary for the final day?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   For me, patience, again, good self‑talk and just trust myself.   
   
 Q.   Sounds like it's not easy to do.  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Not sometimes, no.   But as I say, trust myself and I'll be all right.   Good, positive self‑talk and give myself chances.  
   
 Q.   I take it this is a different course in a sense with the playing today compared to Thursday and it's going to be different again on the final round?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I imagine so, yeah.   It's obviously a lot softer today, because the amount of rain they had this morning and through the night.   Doesn't look like it now but I think it's forecast again through the night, so imagine it will be different again.  
It's certainly a lot longer, so you've still got to be sensible with the holes you attack on, because attacking with 4‑ and 5‑irons can be brain dead sometimes.   Best players in the world do it, so everyone else has got to do it, as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT