BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2013
Matthew Baldwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Front nine, putts didn't quite drop but back nine they all seemed to drop at once.   It was a good day again.
Put me right in the tournament for the weekend, and two more days left and so hopefully the putts can continue to drop and we'll see what happens.

Q.   Essentially we have been speaking in recent events, your form has been coming, hasn't it? 
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, definitely.   It's building up now, and it's also shown so far this week that I've been playing nicely and in the past not been getting the results I want.   So just trying to stay patient and hopefully can progress this weekend even more.

Q.   Sounds easier said than done. 
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, definitely.   Still got to go out and do it.   I said yesterday about taking it to the golf course and things like that.   It's tough at times. 

Q.   Is that all part of the learning experience, being up there and then recognizing that for the next week?
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, I think so.   You know, what doesn't kill you makes you stronger, so the mistakes you make in previous events you learn the hard way and hopefully you don't make them again.

Q.   I'm sure there's a song in there somewhere?
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, probably. 

Q.   What is necessary over the weekend here?
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   For me, just to stay patient and self‑talk, as well, is a big point for me.   I sometimes get down on myself, so stay positive and stay patient. 

Q.   Which means that if there is something that goes wrong, then you beat yourself up and then something else goes wrong?
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, definitely.   Stay patient and let the chances come and we'll see what happens. 

Q.   Again, I refer to that, it's easier said than done; how do you do it?   How do you learn that? 
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Past experiences again, I guess.   You learn the hard way from your mistakes. 

Q.   And you've been up in this kind of position increasingly, haven't you, really?
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, definitely.   I don't think I've been this high up, but it's exciting now for the weekend.

Q.   It's only halfway, so I feel stupid asking this, but is the win overdue? 
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I wouldn't say it's overdue.   I'm still relatively inexperienced compared to a lot of the guys out here but I feel like I'm ready to win.   I feel like I'm good enough to win, so why not. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT