THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Matthew Baldwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The confidence must be flowing.   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, again, tee‑to‑green has been great and just disappointed with how I'm putting.   So it's been a good round but should have been a lot better.  
   
 Q.   Is that something you can work on now or is that something you're going to have to work on afterwards?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I don't know, really.   I'm going to go hit some putts.   I'm going to have some lunch first and hit some putts after.   What's frustrating about it is I'll go on the putting green and hole 100 from six feet on the bounce and I'll wonder what all the fuss is about.   And then I go on the first tomorrow and miss one.   Like I say, it's been a good day, just a disappointing finish.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I give myself a target of 6‑under for the weekend.   So I'll be trying to do my best to do that really.   So we'll see what the weather does tomorrow and see what happens.   
I'm disappointed.   I played really good golf and I came off with 1‑under where I could have been 5, 6.   So it's just disappointing.   But there's always another day tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What were the conditions like out there, good for good scores?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, the wind is picking up a little bit.   There's probably a club wind there now.   So it will make it a little bit more interesting.   But this course is quite soft, so if you hit good shots you get rewarded for it.  
   
 Q.   Would you prefer a bit of wind tomorrow?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Definitely.   The more wind the better.  
   
 Q.   Tell us what the home crowd has been like out there?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   It's been great.   Every hole there's clapping on the tees and encouraging you to do well.   It's been great, really.  
   
 Q.   You've been lucky the way that the rounds have been placed.   You're in front of McIlroy and Harrington, as well, so you're getting the benefit of large crowds?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I didn't realise that.   I've been trying to play my own game and like I said the support from back home has been fantastic.  
   
 Q.   Final thoughts on tomorrow; what are you expecting, what are you hoping for tomorrow?  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I'm expecting to putt a little bit better.   Actually I'm hitting it great.   As far as that's concerned, there's not a lot of work I need to do.   I just need to hole a few putts on the putting green.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT