THE IRISH OPEN
June 19, 2014
Matthew Baldwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   4‑under par to start around here.  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, it was a lovely start.   I've been working really hard on my putting, so hit a lot of good putts today, and to see actually a few of them go in was really positive.  
   
 Q.   Prior to the start of play, we thought plenty of low scores possibly but I guess it's a bit more overcast and blustery today.  
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, you can get quite heavy lies in the rough, as well, so if you do miss the fairways, you can advance the ball.   But it's a lot trickier than we thought it was going to be.   Obviously with the wind picking up, as well, it's made it even trickier.   
   
 Q.   One of those strategic courses as well, got to be in the right place?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I think so.   There's a lot of drives off tees and things like that, but yeah, if you don't find the right areas of the greens, you've got to putt.   
   
 Q.   So were you in the right areas?   Did that help?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Most of the time.   There was a couple of smelly ones out there, a couple of good two putts to keep momentum going.   It was an all right day.   
   
 Q.   Put it into context then for us, how have you been playing?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   I've been playing well.   I've just been having kind of really good shots and then I've hit a really bad shot which has caused me then to make a double‑bogey or worse or even if I'm lucky enough just to make bogey, but just not been scoring.   I've been working hard on my putting like I said, and to see them going in today it was a bit of a relief I guess.   
   
 Q.   I guess the trick as always is to regroup quickly and not let it get to you?   
MATTHEW BALDWIN:   Yeah, it's been difficult.   I think you've got to just try and be as patient as possible, and everyone goes through patches where it's difficult.   But all in all, it's been a good season so far, so I can't complain.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT