UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 15, 2012
Gary Boyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GARY BOYD:   It's good, obviously the pressure I'm under at the moment, obviously a bit outside keeping my card at the moment, a much‑needed first round in contention.  
   
 Q.   How much pressure is it?  
GARY BOYD:   I've tried not to think about it too much but obviously in the back of my mind it's definitely there I think.   This week I've gone into it and I feel like I've prepared very, very well.   I had two weeks where I didn't do too much going into this tournament and then did a week's practise, and I'm mentally refreshed, which I think I needed.  
   
 Q.   There is a temptation to chase everything, presumably, tournament after tournament, and you just work yourself into a rut that way.   
GARY BOYD:   Yeah, definitely.   I feel I was definitely mentally down on myself after Portugal and Dunhill, and then Australia.   Felt I needed a bit of a break really and think about what's been going on the whole year to be honest.   
I think I cleared my mind pretty well last week.   Had a meeting with my manager and we got a few things out in the open which is nice, and then I took it to the golf course today and got off to a nice start birdieing the first hole.   That's always a nice way to get the pressure off.  
   
 Q.   Getting "a few things out in the open," what does that mean?  
GARY BOYD:   Just talking about what's been going on in my mind.   I'm someone who keeps things inside too much, which I need to get a bit more out in the open and be honest with, with what's been going on and that's definitely helped.   
   
 Q.   And you know your ability deep down, don't you?   I know that there's always doubts in this game, but you know you're a valuable part of this European Tour.   
GARY BOYD:   Definitely, I feel this is where I want to be.   This is the career that I want to do, and this is not the year that I've definitely wanted.   There's been a lot of bad things this year but there's been a lot of good things.   
Being in contention again earlier this year was very, very good and there's been signs this year of some good golf but then there's been some bad stuff, which is the position I'm in.   This year there's been too many double‑bogeys and triple‑bogeys which affects the score, and I think most of that is mental stuff.   
I think this winter is going to be a time to work on the mental side to get me in a better frame.  
   
 Q.   Nobody wants to leave things to the last minute, but if you have one tournament to put it together, couldn't be much better than this, could it?   
GARY BOYD:   No, it was tough out there today, and you can tell by the scores, no one is running away with it and I don't think they will this afternoon.   Hong Kong is probably one of my favorite cities, this one and Sydney.   
Coming back here, it's good memories, and if it's the week that will keep my card, it will be even more special this place.   
   
 Q.   Suits your game, as well?   
GARY BOYD:   Yeah, definitely.   You have to drive the ball very well and they are very small greens, so you have to hit it in the right place.   So I feel my game is in good enough shape at the moment to take on the golf course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT