JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 25, 2012
Gary Boyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GARY BOYD:   It was good.   The front nine, didn't really get much going to start with.   I made a nice couple of birdies, got a nice couple up‑and‑downs toward the end of the front nine, and then holed my second shot into 11, which set the round up nicely to be in contention. 
Had a nice number, had 197 yards, had to pitch it past the flag, the pin was only four on, so it was just a nice ten o'clock swing and managed to spin it back in the hole and got right into contention.

Q.   18, you didn't look like you were going to miss that putt. 
GARY BOYD:   Yeah, it was probably the best iron swing of the day and it was nice to finish on a 3, which puts me tied for the lead at the moment.   I'm sure it won't be there at the end of the day, but it puts me in a good place to make a push tomorrow and hopefully we can post one of those, it will be good enough.   But it's nice to be up in contention again.

Q.   That hole has changed significantly, with Ryder Cup in mind, but there's any number of shots you can do into it and any number of scores you can rack up I guess?
GARY BOYD:   It's a pretty difficult drive with the bunker on the right‑hand side which is in play for most of the guys and around the green, it's been a massive change.   There's run‑offs right and left and it's such a small target going in with a long iron; if you can hit the green, then it's a great chance of making a three or a four.   But if you miss the green, it can seem like a six or a seven.

Q.   Signs were there even the previous day that you were building nicely?
GARY BOYD:   Yeah, even the first round, I played nicely.   I hit 15 or 16 greens the first round, didn't take many chances, and then yesterday, really got it going.   Then one poor swing, made a triple and it was back to around the cut line.   It was nice to go out there today and just try and post a score.

Q.   Were you sensing that you might get amongst it?   We have terrific weather which we didn't expect?
GARY BOYD:   Yeah, it was a little cold this morning but the weather was perfect.   The greens were in great shape and there was a few pins you could have a go at today.   They do say Saturday is moving day, and I definitely managed to do that. 

Q.   Putting it into context, how have you been playing?
GARY BOYD:   I've been playing good the last three months.   Just not really having the scores to be honest.   It just seems to be getting in a nice position and make a double or make a bogey. 
So there's been good signs, really, the last three months, there's been many good scores out there, and then there's been some average scores that should have been better.   Just went out there today and tried to just play golf, what I used to do as a kid.
I've been obviously thinking about things a bit too much and trying to work on my golf swing to get it better and it's not really paid off on the golf course.   But today I tried to trust it a bit more and it seemed to work.   If we can do that tomorrow, let's hope it holds up.

Q.   Is any part of that down to having that enforced break?   It's hard to have a lack of golf in the eyes of the summer here, but everybody's had that break?
GARY BOYD:   I think breaks normally do good for me.   This tournament, especially, has been very, very good to me the last two years, finishing inside the Top 15 both times.   Obviously I'm getting better every year, so hopefully we can post one in the top 5 this week and even have a chance of winning would be nice.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT