ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 5, 2012
Gary Boyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your record here, there's not been too much form, where has that one come from today?
GARY BOYD:   It's been close the last three weeks, I've been playing nicely and felt my game was in good shape going into this week and just went out there and did as good as I can to get to 4‑under. 

Q.   Those three weeks, did something significant happen before that?
GARY BOYD:   I went back to see my coach in America and worked on my game.   Changed caddies five or six weeks ago and didn't get off to the best of starts at Wentworth and Wales but the last three weeks have been very, very good.   A lot of positive signs the last few weeks.

Q.   In these conditions, to have any chance this weekend, you have to get off to a good start. 
GARY BOYD:   Yeah, I think every golf tournament you have to get off to a good start but out there you need to keep the ball in the short stuff.   It's brutal if it's not in the fairway.   I gave myself chances to get at flags and obviously those last four holes are difficult so you try to play away from some of those flags.

Q.   It's going to be a big week given where you stand in The Race to Dubai, isn't it. 
GARY BOYD:   It definitely is but I'm trying not to think about that at the moment.   I've been here two years ago, so I know what it's like.   But there's so many weeks to play every year and my game is good enough to be there. 
I've had two good weeks in Germany and Ireland, finishing in the Top‑35 in both of those.   There was a lot of very positive things I tried to take into this week and obviously went out there this morning and played nicely and was in good shape. 

Q.   How are playing conditions?   It was quite calm?
GARY BOYD:   It was nice not to have the wind out there, especially the way the golf course is set up, it's set up in great condition this week.   I think the big, crucial thing this week is to keep it in the fairway because the minute you go into the rough, you're struggling to move it in some places.   Driving is a massive key this week.

Q.   What's the plan for the afternoon?
GARY BOYD:   Bit of a chill‑out.   Had an early start the last couple of days.   Will go and hit a few balls, do some putting and then chill out the rest of the afternoon. 
To be at the top of the leaderboard early doors, it's a nice thing to look at and finished off nicely coming into the back nine with 1‑under. 

Q.   You looked like you were gritting your teeth and determined to see it through?
GARY BOYD:   Those last few holes are brutal.   If you come in level par, I think you are picking up shots on the field. 

Q.   Essentially when we consider Le Golf National, there's a very good total, isn't it, 66?
GARY BOYD:   Yeah, it is.   I think the start of the week, guys are thinking, what score is going to end at the end of the week, and you get to double figures and I think you'll be lifting the trophy.   So shoot 5‑under the first round, it's nice. 

Q.   And yet it's been coming, hasn't it. 
GARY BOYD:   It has.   It was coming in China and then a bit of a disaster around Wales.   But the last three weeks, prior to that went to see my coach back in America.   A lot of positives and looking forward to the next few rounds. 
I think I'm a very confident player when I get going, and I have a guy on the bag, as well, who is always trying to bring confidence to me helps, as well.   And walking off the golf course, I'm working on the right things, I feel, which is making me play better on the golf course I think and feeling comfortable out there again, which I was getting to a point where I wasn't comfortable on the golf course on the mental side, and the game really wasn't where it needed to be.   It was time to take a time‑out, and obviously it's worked. 

Q.   You mentioned the last four holes in particular, but I take it the whole track has its difficulties. 
GARY BOYD:   Every hole is a challenge out there, that's for sure.   If you start hitting it off the fairway, you're in trouble.   You have to have a good short game around here, and you have to putt very well to shoot a don't score, because every hole is a task, really, and especially the last four, you can make up a number very quickly.

Q.   I guess your score is evidence that there are opportunities there if you are playing well enough. 
GARY BOYD:   There's a couple of par 5s that you have to take advantage of, and if you get the putter hot at the start and start making a few birdies, which I did pretty early, it was a nice way to get off, to be 3‑under through four holes. 

Q.   And staying with James Morrison this week who won himself that car this week, probably been talking about that nonstop?
GARY BOYD:   Yeah, I think I've heard that maybe 20, 25 times and another score I came out again last night.   But obviously he's got his little one here this week who is three years old and he's in the room next door, but I haven't heard him crying, so he's doing good.   James has been playing well, so that's nice. 

Q.   In a sense that's inspiring, you want to do what your friend's done in a sense?
GARY BOYD:   I want to do better than my friend obviously, but we are very good friends and we are always trying to encourage each other.   It was the same when John was out here, we roomed together, and obviously we had a massive run at the end of my first season.   So obviously I'm looking forward to this weekend and I hope obviously to be there at the end of the weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT