BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2011
Gary Boyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON: A slight blip at the last but nevertheless, an excellent start, 65. You were second in Italy in the BMW title, but you're back at another BMW tournament. So is it going to be BMW, Boyd must win? 
 GARY BOYD: Still three more rounds to go. I played great tee-to-green today and holed some great putts when I needed to. Obviously the last hole was disappointing to finish with a six on a par 5 when I was in good position after my second shot. But I felt good on the golf course today and I'm looking forward to the next three rounds.
 GORDON SIMPSON: You seem to be coming into the time of the season where you tend to play much better anyway.
 GARY BOYD: Seems to be that way, last year and in my Challenge Tour years, and I've played a lot of amateur golf where the season didn't start until April, May time. And whether I'm tuned in to play well around this time, I'm not too sure. But it seems to be this time of year where my game comes into strength.
 GORDON SIMPSON: And what was the strength of your game? What was the key part today? 
 GARY BOYD: I struck the ball great today, which gave myself a lot of chances to hit it close from the fairways. Obviously if you miss the fairways out here, you're struggling to get it close, let alone on the greens. And I holed some great putts today, which does make a big difference. 

 Q. Your colleague said that it's always fun here to play here because he can score very low. What do you think about the course? Is it easy to play here?
 GARY BOYD: It's my first time here, so I'm obviously learning the golf course. There's a lot of guys here who have played here over the years. 
 I know they have changed a few holes, but obviously the rain we had last night really helped the golf course in the respect that you can hit it a lot closer to the hole and go for the flag which makes a big difference. Obviously we were lucky to be able to play preferred lies this morning, as well, and if you have a bad lie on the fairway, you can move it. I was lucky enough to hit a few fairways, which does help. 

 Q. You've been second in Italy, do you think you're on kind of a run now?
 GARY BOYD: Yeah, it was the same kind of last year. When I get myself in contention, I enjoy being in contention. I'm excited to be in that position and that's why we do play the game. Italy was a big turning point for my season, and qualifying for the British Open, that was a big turning point. So I feel my game is getting back to where it should be. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: What did exactly happen on 9, to dwell on this one just briefly.
 GARY BOYD: I hit a good tee shot. Just pulled it five yard. Just went into the bunker, I was kind of always on the back slope. Managed to hit a great shot out of the bunker to the middle of the fairway. Had a perfect yardage in and hit just a poor swing, really one of the bad swings of the day. It's never nice to finish on that one, but that's always been kind of my bad shot this year, a pull, and when you have a left tight flag and you pull it.
 GORDON SIMPSON: On the positives, 31 to the turn. What was the highlight of that nine? 
 GARY BOYD: Getting off to a good start. Holed a great putt on 13 to get to 3-under through four holes. I know I shouldn't really have been thinking about it, but I was thinking 59 there, which that's the kind of mental attitude I get into. 
 I said to my caddie through I think 14 holes, if I can make an eagle on one of the par 5s and give myself a chance on the other par 4 and par 3, then 59 might be on, but it wasn't meant to be. It's nice to get off to a good start. I've always been a slow starter in tournaments and to shoot 7-under is a nice start.
 GORDON SIMPSON: So that's a sign that you're in a good mental place if you're thinking of a 59 after four holes of golf.
 GARY BOYD: I do get those occasions where I do think of those scores. I know my game tee-to-green is very good. If I putt well, then I'll have a good week. Like I say, I'm looking forward to tomorrow and obviously over the weekend. 

 Q. Thinking about changing your preseason routine to get started early in the year?
 GARY BOYD: Maybe take five months off. No, I always try to make swing changes during the winter. That's what I've always tried to do. I've always tried to improve every aspect of my game and I've always been a person to slowly grind in swing changes. And it always happens the other way with bad habits, as well. You can grind them in too much and you struggle. I think once you start to play better during the season and bring yourself into it, then you'll feel comfortable on the golf course and then be in a better mental state. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Well played and keep it up tomorrow. Thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT