ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 10, 2010
Gary Boyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Reflect on the week, that's a fine performance. 
 GARY BOYD: It's been fantastic. Race to Dubai was the aim coming the next few weeks, so felt I could play links golf have I well, growing up with the amateur stuff, it's in my blood I think. It's been a fantastic week and the first year me and my caddie have been together as well and it was my birthday on Monday and it's a bit of a late birthday present, it's my mom's birthday tomorrow, so a present for her. 

 Q. You had the chance of victory, you must have sensed the adrenaline was rising?
 GARY BOYD: It was, definitely, I felt if I give myself some chances coming in then maybe there might be a chance. Obviously a couple of putts slipped by but I thought I kept my cool and fair play, in a week like this, is always good.

 Q. This is a much stronger field, as well, given what you've done in recent weeks, you've played well but to see all of these other names behind you must be all the more satisfying?
 GARY BOYD: It is. Obviously it was a great week for the boys at the Ryder Cup last week, and I knew my game is there, and it's just I thought it was a matter of time before I started being at the top of the leaderboard. I could get used to this. We'll see. I'm just going to do the same things every week and see where it puts me in the end.

 Q. I take it you watched last week?
 GARY BOYD: I was down last week. They were a bit unlucky with the weather, but I think the result in the end was at right result, so great to bring the Cup back for Europe, definitely.

 Q. Covered in mud, but inspirational? 
 GARY BOYD: Definitely was. Obviously a good friend of mine, Ian, was there playing, so I was obviously following him. I did get covered in a lot of mud but it was worthwhile definitely.

 Q. And you mentioned The Race to Dubai, that's a huge significant achievement in a first pro season like this. 
 GARY BOYD: It was. Maybe four or five weeks ago, I wasn't even thinking about that at all, I was just thinking about getting my card and now once you can do that, you start relaxing and all of a sudden there's other gates that open. 
 So hopefully I'll be good enough to get there but we'll see. There's a lot more golf to play this year. I'll be looking forward to next week in Portugal and then the week after. I think the next two weeks are going to be fantastic weeks. I won't need my woolly hat, that's for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT