ROSE BOWL GAME: USC VS PENN STATE
December 29, 2016
Mike Gesicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're the hardest guy to get sound bites from, the least talkative guy.
MIKE GESICKI: Absolutely.
Q. Sunny and 80.  I did a forecast for the people back at home.  Sunny and 80.  What's that like for you at bowl practice?
MIKE GESICKI: It's been an unbelievable experience.  The weather is something we've adjusted to.  I think we've done well at adjusting to it, as well.  It's no different than kind of fall camp.  It actually is different.  It's nicer.  It's definitely not as hot and definitely been nice to be out here in the sun.
Q. We're a few miles from Hollywood.  Who is the most Hollywood guy on Penn State?
MIKE GESICKI: Well, I mean, maybe the guy next to me, but we actually, one of our tight ends, his last name is Jon Holland, and his nickname is Hollywood.  Everybody calls him Hollywood.  We've been joking around with him all week about it.
Q. How did he earn that?  Give me specifics?
MIKE GESICKI: He came here with that nickname.  I'm assuming it has to do with the Holland last name, kind of goes along with it.
Q. We're also close to the walk of fame.  Asked a couple guys at media day, of all the personalities, who would be the most likely later in life to get a star on the walk of fame?  I heard Mark Allen, Marcus Allen.
MIKE GESICKI: Okay.
Q. Guys think they're comedians.
MIKE GESICKI: Yeah, yeah.  I'm going to -- yeah, I'm going to stay with Mark Allen.  Mark Allen is probably one of the funnier guys on the team.  He's always got good jokes, always got a positive attitude, making people happy, that kind of stuff.  I've give it to mark.
Q. Finally, we don't talk to Joe very much, Joe Moorhead.  What should people know about this guy and the job he's done this year?
MIKE GESICKI: He's done an unbelievable job here.  I'm very thankful for him and the offense he's brought here for all of us.  He's a very confident guy.  He has kind of instilled confidence in this entire offensive group and has been contagious throughout everybody.
So I think that the success that he's had at the other schools he's been at, he brought here, and we're all happy that he's here.
Q. We got to watch practice a little bit today and had you guys in full pads, guys in shoulder pads and helmets and guys in no pads.  How does that work?  Who is in what?
MIKE GESICKI: The guys that are in full pads are redshirt guys and they have some full contact stuff throughout the day.  And then the guys that are just in the uppers are the guys that aren't going to go full contact, and they're just going to be out there for practice and obligations and stuff like that.  The guys that aren't are mostly just, you know, working out and things like that during practice.
Q. So you guys, the guys in the two-deep rotation, were --
MIKE GESICKI: We're in uppers, yeah.
Q. Which is what USC did today?
MIKE GESICKI: Yep.
Q. When was the last time you guys went full pads?  They went twice and they didn't go at all in November.
MIKE GESICKI: Yeah, we stopped going full pads probably last three games, we stopped going full pads.  And then just been uppers and things like that, just because, you know, it's not really about the contact and stuff in practice.  It's about the reps and keeping guys healthy throughout the rest of the season.
Q. You guys are alike.  There are more whistles at your practice.  And the same air horn, but they don't announce what the next period is.
MIKE GESICKI: Okay.  Really?
Q. They just go.
MIKE GESICKI: Huh.
Q. It's a much more compact practice in the middle of a campus.  But it's interesting.
MIKE GESICKI: Awesome.
Q. Did you play basketball?
MIKE GESICKI: Yes, sir.
Q. Did you know the kid who is four years behind you, the kid from Downingtown, goes to -- 6'7" kid, goes to USC, tight end?
MIKE GESICKI: No.
Q. He kind of looks like you.  Got maybe 20 pounds lighter.  He's redshirting.  He's a nice player and he was a really good basketball player, I guess, in Bucks County.
MIKE GESICKI: I'm from New Jersey, so I played basketball in southern part of New Jersey.
Q. Where?
MIKE GESICKI: Southern Regional, down by like Long Beach Island.
Q. I know where that is.  I was a deputy sports editor at the Park Prep.  Long time ago.  You're down there?
MIKE GESICKI: Yes, sir.
Q. You're one of the shore guys?
MIKE GESICKI: Uh-huh, yes, sir.
Q. Good luck.
MIKE GESICKI: Thank you very much.
Q. They're paying attention to you.  Because they said it's not just the quarterback/running back.  It's that big tight end.  They've all paid attention to you.
MIKE GESICKI: No doubt.  Appreciate it.
Q. You're coming back?
MIKE GESICKI: Yes, sir.
Q. Thank you very much.
MIKE GESICKI: Thank you.
Q. You guys have probably been asked this a bunch all year.  When, after Coach Moorhead got here, did you say to yourself, this might work?  This might be really good?
MIKE GESICKI: I think going through the spring and buying into his game plan, getting used to his coaching and all that kind of stuff, that was definitely crucial for the offense to kind of just begin to understand his scheme and to just buy into everything that he was telling us.
And then by the time fall camp came around, we bought into everything that he was telling us and the scheme he brought.  We all understood our job and our role, and I think throughout the season, it's just improved on a weekly basis.
Q. Mike, you guys, some people making decisions, you've obviously made yours.  What does it mean for you Joe has said publicly he's coming back.  You have that stability, because you guys hadn't had that for a while?
MIKE GESICKI: I think it's awesome.  I talked to Coach Moorhead before I made my decision.  And, you know, he told me he's coming back and all that kind of stuff.  It was awesome to hear that and have that reassurance.  That was a crucial part to my decision.  Just coming back, being able to play in his offense again with a bunch of guys coming back and a bunch of crucial pieces.  So feels good, and I'm happy with it.
Q. James told us before about the process a little bit that they try to bring in people to educate you guys and your families.  What goes on there?
MIKE GESICKI: There's definitely a bunch of resources for us.  I mean, there's definitely a bunch of people to talk to.  I definitely, I talked to a few guys at the next level and guys I was friends with, Jessie and Hack and people like that, just because they were and still are very good friends of mine and they went through the exact same process.  They're good resources for me.
But Penn State also gives you a bunch of resources and the coaches are awesome to talk to, especially Coach Franklin.  He's coached in the NFL.  He's coached in college.  He's had players leave early.  He's had players stay.  They've kind of all been through it.  It was good to have that help.
Q. Mike, you've said in the past Penn State's offense won't peak until the day that Coach Moorhead leaves.  What do you mean by that?
MIKE GESICKI: I mean Coach Moorhead is not going to, you know, let us come in and not get better.  He's not going to accept us just getting by or stalemating or anything like that.  He's always coming up with ways for us to improve.  I think everybody buys into his scheme.
The way he coaches, how confident he is, and I think it's contagious to everybody and it's shown week after week after week.  We have improved.
Q. What's the most creative way he's come up with to do that, to help you guys improve?
MIKE GESICKI: I think just his game plans and how he's a very intelligent, has a bunch of football IQ.  He's very smart, smart guy when it comes to football.  And he's really just come up with a bunch of ways just to attack defenses and get certain guys the ball.  He's been able to spread it out all season long.  We have a bunch of weapons that have been able to produce all season.
I think Coach Moorhead has done an unbelievable job for us.
Q. You look at this team on film, what stands out to you defensively?  What's the biggest challenge?  Especially Adoree' Jackson is one of the biggest corners in the country.
MIKE GESICKI: Absolutely.  I think their defensive line is extremely big.  They have a bunch of size there.  The line backers are very physical.  In the back end, you talked about the one guy, and, I mean, they have a bunch of those guys that are extremely athletic.  They're fast.  They have great ball skills.  Everything that you want from a defensive back, they have it.
And I'm looking forward to it.  It's going to be an unbelievable opportunity for us.  We're excited about it.
Q. You guys went to Disneyland.  You went to the Beef Bowl thing.  When you finally step out on to the Rose Bowl, on to the field, what's the emotion going to be like?  Is that going to hit you?  Has it hit you yet?
MIKE GESICKI: I really cannot wait.  This is all an unbelievable experience for us.  We're taking it in every single day.  But, I mean, I'm just looking forward to that game.  Can't wait for that thing to come around.  This is the most prestigious bowl in all of college football.  For us to have a chance to play in this and compete and give it our best to go out and win this game, we're excited about it and I can't wait to run out there.
Q. You guys were so hot this season, nine straight wins.  A few weeks off, rest versus rust, what do you try to do to make sure that momentum continues over the layoff?
MIKE GESICKI: I think that the coach has done a great job with scheduling and practices and that kind of stuff to make sure there is no rust and that we're going to be back to our top form and kind of a stay ready so you don't have that get ready mindset for all of us.  We've been attacking this for the last three or four weeks now and excited to get out there on Monday.
Q. Talked to one of Joe's former quarterbacks before the season started, one of the guys at Fordham.  He said once they get the offense figured out, they're going to -- like he would go into the -- he would come out of their, like pseudo huddle and say, this is where we're going deep and this is going to work.  Did you find that happened eventually?  Like oh, man, we're --
MIKE GESICKI: Yeah.
Q. I know you guys have been throwing deep balls all over.
MIKE GESICKI: Coach Moorhead, he called it in Purdue.  First play of the drive, said we're handing it to Saquon, we're blocking it here and he's taking it in for a touchdown.  And it happened.  It was 80-yard touchdown.  I mean, he'll go out and say this is a touchdown.  Block, touchdown.
So Coach Moorhead, that's kind of what I'm talking about with all the confidence that he has.  He'll get out there and just be like, All right, guys, this is a touchdown.  This is a big play.  We go out there and work it out and it works out for us.
Q. How much Pac-12 football do you have a chance to watch during the season?
MIKE GESICKI: Not too much.  Really not too much.  Been making up for it in the film room, obviously.  But live and all that stuff because we're playing on Saturdays and stuff like that as well, you do catch a few on Friday nights, some of them play on Friday nights and stuff like that.  For the most part, not too much.
Q. So what would you say the perception of the conference is?  The Pac-12 is?
MIKE GESICKI: They're extremely talented.  They deserve a ton of respect for the teams that come out of that conference.  They're extremely tough and physical, but also athletic at the same time.  So it's going to be a great matchup.
Q. When the pairings came out, you found out you were going to play 'SC, what did you know about this year's team?
MIKE GESICKI: About USC?
Q. Yes.
MIKE GESICKI: I knew that they had a bunch of talent.  Was kind of looking forward to the matchup.  Obviously, Penn State and USC has played in the Rose Bowl before, so it's kind of, you know, historic and all that kind of stuff.
But specifically, this year's team, just talented, physical.  I have a friend that plays at Notre Dame, so I was kind of watching that Notre Dame-USC game and saw the big plays and all that kind of stuff.  So it's going to be a big matchup.  Excited about it.
Q. Mike, you were a fan of Coach Moorhead's from the beginning.  What was it that you -- that first whatever, how many weeks or months that you saw him?
MIKE GESICKI: Well, I was a huge fan of him because the first day he got hired, I went up and checked out his tight end stats.  His tight end led the team in catches.  I wasn't too mad about that.
And then after that, after meeting him and getting to know him and play for him and practice for him, all that kind of stuff, he's extremely confident and I've said that a hundred times.  He's just extremely confident and it's contagious to all the guys around us, the entire team, the entire offense specifically.
And, you know, it's awesome to play for him.  He's a very smart offensive coordinator.  He knows where to pick apart the defenses and all that kind of stuff and it's been a great experience to play for him.
Q. Has the offense been even more successful than you imagined back in the spring?
MIKE GESICKI: I think this is kind of the image that everybody should have been picturing when Coach Moorhead came.  Explosive offenses, big plays, consistency, you know, a bunch of play makers, guys making plays, a bunch of different guys making plays.  It's not just one guy.  It's week in, week out, a bunch of guys making plays.  This is kind of what we pictured coming into the season.
Q. Did him coming out earlier this week and saying he's going to be here next season, did that play kind of factor into your decision?
MIKE GESICKI: I talked to Coach Moorhead before I made my decision.  I sat down with him and Coach Ronnie, Coach Franklin and talked to them about it all, and they were unbelievable resources.  Coach Moorhead told me he was staying.  That was obviously huge for me just because I love playing in his offense.  Obviously, had some success in it, as well.  So I'm looking forward to another year in it.
Q. You know a guy like Moorhead, with all the success you've had, he's going to leave eventually, right?  But through your guys' minds, is it like I hope it's not now, I hope it's not this year?  How do you deal with that?
MIKE GESICKI: Kind of as the season's gone on as well, kind of focus on what's ahead of you and all that stuff and control the controllables.
Coach Moorhead is obviously a phenomenal coach, has done a great job with this offense.  This is one of the most explosive offenses in Penn State football history.  Look at the numbers.  That's just facts.
Obviously, having Coach Moorhead here, we love having him here and want him for as long as possible.
Q. There's a lot connecting these two teams, obviously on paper, with all the winning streaks and stuff like that.  There's also a connection here with having to survive sanctions on both sides.  Have you thought about what that maybe means in this game, the two programs that have kind of had to rebuild?
MIKE GESICKI: To be honest with you, no.  I haven't thought about it.  Now that you bring it up, it has to do with both universities and both schools and both football teams specifically dealing with adversity, fighting through it, and just controlling what you can control, moving forward, and continuing to try to have success on the field.
Q. Mike, I'm sure you've answered 800 times.  Just got here.  The decision to say hey, I'm coming back, what went into that?
MIKE GESICKI: I've only answered it once.  I haven't had too many people down this end.  I think they forgot I'm down here.
Q. Some of us look for the open spot.
MIKE GESICKI: Absolutely.
Q. It's easier to talk face-to-face.
MIKE GESICKI: Absolutely.  No, I think the decision to come back, there was definitely a bunch of people I was talking to, a bunch of resources.  Some guys here at school, coaches, obviously.  A guy like, you know, Jessie, you know, up at the next level.  Just going, talking to guys who have been through it and, I mean, I made the decision that was right for myself, right for the team, right for my family.
It feels good to get it out of the way, focus on USC and know I have another year.
Q. Did you get an eval or not?
MIKE GESICKI: Yeah.
Q. Could you tell us what they said?
MIKE GESICKI: Yeah, I mean, they obviously, you know, they give you a grade and all that kind of stuff.  I'm not going to go into specifically what it was.  But had some good stuff on there, some things that, you know, I was happy about.
But, also, for myself, some room to improve and some things to get better on.  So, you know, going to go into this game on Monday and focus on winning this game.
Once the off-season comes, have a whole new list of things to improve on just like I did last off-season and continue to improve and move on.
Q. What do you think the biggest thing is for you, that you think yourself, to improve on next year?
MIKE GESICKI: I think two things.  One thing would be, which I think I've done all season long, which I think I've improved on all season long would be run after the catchability.  I think it's gotten a lot better.  I used to be kind of catch ball, tackle, whatever it was.  Now I've shown I can be physical, you know.  I can get some yards after the catch.  I can break a tackle here and there, things like that.  I'm going to focus on yards after the catch.
And then, obviously, continue to improve in blocking.  Rather than just being satisfied with stalemating, I want to get some more movement.  That's obviously going to also come from the weight room and getting bigger, stronger, all that kind of stuff.
For the most part, focus on run after the catch and focus on blocking.
Q. Are you a receiver or tight end next level?
MIKE GESICKI: I will be a tight end at the next level, yes, sir.
Q. Your passing game has been terrific.  I think you've completed more passes over 20 yards than anybody in the country.  Why so effective throwing the ball downfield?
MIKE GESICKI: Well, Coach Moorhead calls a bunch of shots, obviously so we're definitely going to take some shots down the field.  With the amount of success we've had with those shots, we'll just continue to call them.  We've got a bunch of guys who have the ability to make big-time plays, and Trace has done a great job with the offensive line, offensive line has done a phenomenal job giving him enough time.  He's done a great job with his feet, keeping plays alive and finding open receivers down the field.
Q. Are you the kind of player, going into the game, you visualize what it might be like, high scoring, low scoring, passing, that kind of thing?
MIKE GESICKI: Not really as to, like, all right, you know, we're going to get them here.  I'm big into visualization.  That's what I was thinking where you were going at first.
I mean, I'll sit before the game, throw a towel over my head and visualize me making big plays, success, that kind of stuff.  Some of the guys make fun of me because I literally sit there, throw a towel over my head and just start visualization, all that kind of stuff right before the game.
But as to where the game's going to go and all that kind of stuff, I don't really -- a win's a win.  That's really all we're looking for.
Q. What do you think it might be like for you when you step on the field at 2:00 at the Rose Bowl?
MIKE GESICKI: It's going to be an unbelievable atmosphere, obviously.  I just looked it up today.  It's 92,000 capacity, which is, I mean, that's a bunch of people.  It's going to be great.  Obviously, a bunch of people also watching on TV.  It's going to be a great atmosphere.  There's going to be a bunch of people watching.
At the end of the day, it's going to be an unbelievable experience and a chance to go out and play a great opponent in the most prestigious game in college football.
Q. Mike, why'd you answer my question like that when I asked you about tight end or receiver?  Is that something that's -- I didn't know if there was meaning behind it.
MIKE GESICKI: No, no.  People say, you know, receiving tight end.  I mean, my ultimate goal is to be a complete tight end.  I think that obviously, this year, I've been very efficient being a receiving tight end.  But also, you know, have improved in the blocking game and trying to become a full, complete tight end to kind of, you know, just continue to improve.
Q. What's the best thing about Joe?
MIKE GESICKI: I've said it a hundred times.  I think the best thing about Coach Moorhead is just his confidence and how it's contagious to all the guys around us.  The team, our offense specifically.  We'll get in the huddle and he'll be like, All right, guys, just block, do your job, it's a touchdown.
Q. That sounds simple.
MIKE GESICKI: But the thing is he's right.  And the thing is we all believe in him, as well.  So when he gets in here and says, Hey, this is a touchdown, it's not like, Oh, here goes this guy again.  Because, I mean, he called it.
I mean, in the Big Ten championship game, he said, All right, O-line block.  Mike, you pick up this block.  Trace, drop back, throw this one deep.  Touchdown.  That's exactly what happened.  So we've had a bunch of success and it's also, you know, Coach Moorhead getting in there and instilling confidence in this entire offensive group.  It's been great playing for him, and excited for another opportunity this year.
Q. Mike, what's impressed you most about what Saquon's been able to do this season?
MIKE GESICKI: I mean, I could write a book about that.  But I always just say let 26 be 26 and that's really what we do.  Saquon's obviously had a bunch of success not only this year, but also last year.  He's definitely getting recognition around the country and he deserves it.
But I think that, you know, the thing that impressed me the most is his preparation and the things he does when people aren't watching, whether it's in the film room and he said earlier in the year when he jumped over the dude from Maryland, he knew he was going to do it because he watched him on film a hundred times kind of take out the dude's legs.  So I think his preparation and the things he does when people aren't watching is the thing that is really impressive.
Q. Do you ever find yourself shaking your head when he does do those things, jumping over people like it's no big deal?
MIKE GESICKI: He's definitely an unbelievable athlete, has made some incredible plays.  I would say I'm shaking my head, but it's kind of what you expect from him at this point.  That's kind of the expectation.
Q. Mike, you guys have been through a lot of adversity this season.  When you hear a couple guys aren't going to play, how do you guys as an offense take that, adjust to that, deal with that?
MIKE GESICKI: Obviously, it's something that you're not looking forward to.  Especially myself, he's one of my best friends.  It's a tough situation, but it's also a learning experience, and it's adversity again for this team to go through.
We have the next man up mentality.  We've had it all season long with this offense.  Look at our offensive line, putting guys in and out throughout there.  Also, with our receivers, DeAndre had a great season for us when we asked him to go in there and step up.
So we're going to continue to move forward and continue to have the next man up mentality and, you know, just continue to come into practice every day and get ready for Monday.
Q. This is the Rose Bowl, the biggest game you've ever played in?
MIKE GESICKI: No doubt.
Q. What's number two?  Wisconsin?
MIKE GESICKI: Big Ten Championship.
Q. Has the totality hit everybody, after everything that's happened this year, that you're going to play in the Rose Bowl?
MIKE GESICKI: Yeah, I mean, it's --
Q. Has it really sunk in?
MIKE GESICKI: I think being out here and being out in California and, you know, kind of starting to see people getting all excited about the game, I think it's starting to set in.
To be honest, I don't think it's going to set in until you get out on that field, you go out for warmups, you look around and you take in the atmosphere and everything the Rose Bowl has to offer.  And then ultimately, at the end of the day, there's only one goal in this, and that's to go out there and win the game.
Q. What can you show people from this game?  You guys showed the people a lot.  Penn State's back, whatever you want to say.  You're not in the playoffs, but it's a big game.  What can you show people?
MIKE GESICKI: Just come out and continue to do our job and just show people that, you know, we've been doubted all season long.  Doesn't matter if it was the Big Ten Championship game.  Doesn't matter if it was against Ohio State.  We've always been doubted.  I think we're getting doubted again this week.  So just continue to come out and practice at an extremely high level to prepare for Monday, and then just show people what Penn State football really is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT