SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 4, 2020
Ryan O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. ...heading into a major.
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   Well, I'll take it.  Not the finish that I wanted.  Actually wasn't the start that I wanted today.  But looking at hindsight how the year started for me, this is very much improvement.
 So I feel like I'm going in the right direction, so getting this momentum going into a major I think would be -- or is -- a good position to be in.
 I was saying on the course, Mel has been playing really good.  She was in the lead group the other week in Portland, and no surprise she's winning today.  Her game is really good, and I think I that is kind of the momentum that needs to be built, and that's what I'm trying to set myself up for.
 Q. You talked about after the first rounds up you said if you can go out and win this thing, just take care of business, but obviously Mel is going to help you with that.  You're going to be in the field for next week.  How exciting is it to not have won but still played solidly to get yourself into the...
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   Yeah, that is the nice thing.  I saw the withdrawal I think last night, so that moved me up to first alternate.  And I was looking and like, Okay, who is possible to win that isn't going to take that spot.
 So it was sitting pretty nicely, so I was like at least I get to ensure I'm playing next week, so I'm happy about that.
 I'm not sure on the U.S. Open front.  Do you know?
 Q. I think right now it will be Mel and Jennifer?
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   They're not already in?
 Q. No.
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   I'm surprised.  Okay.
 Q. At least off my math, which could be wrong.
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   Yeah, I didn't know if they were in based off last year's play?
 Q. I'll double check it.
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   I thought Mel finished top 40 last year.
 Q. They redid everything.
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   Okay.
 Q. Have you ever played Aronimink?
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   No.  I heard good things.  Brittany played it yesterday and I think said it's awesome.
 Q. Brittany?
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   Lincicome.
 Q. I would imagine especially when you can just go an hour and a half down the road...
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   I know.
 Q. Especially when all the majors switch venues every year and you could be going to Southern Cal.  How nice is it to have that ease into a week?
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   It's nice because you're not in a rush.  With COVID going on there are not as many flights.  Basically be getting out tomorrow.  So to have a major next week and just be driving there, it just makes it relaxing, easy.
 So I'm really look forward to that?
 Q. How do you anticipate the week to shape up?
 RYANN O'TOOLE:   You know, I'm just happy to be playing kind of going into this week realizing I'm not in the event.  You know, just shame on me for not playing great and all of a sudden, wait a second, I'm an alternate.
 So that was a shock and I was pretty mad about that or bummed about that, but obviously it kicked things into gear for me.  So to have that opportunity to now be playing and not be sitting waiting, you know, not hoping bad on anybody, but hoping I get to play, I'm glad I can just start the week with the intention of playing.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT