CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2016
Ryan O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Did you say your coach was in town this week?  
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yes.   
 Q.  Is that a normal thing for you?  Like how often do you get the chance to actually have him?  
RYANN O'TOOLE: You know, quite a bit.  He has a few girls out here:  Anna Nordqvist, Carlota Ciganda, Stephanie Meadows, and myself.  He manages to make it out to quite a few events, which is great.   
He was in Mexico last week, and the week before that he flew out to Arizona and worked with me for a day and a half.  It was great to get some work done and then head into these last two events.   
He was out yesterday and we spent all morning working, you know, just on the course.  Just little things.  Wasn't much information given.  Just tightening things up and making sure that, Hey, if we get a little errant, we tighten it down and go, so...   
 Q.  Anything in particular that's working really well right now?  
RYANN O'TOOLE: I think just understanding my misses.  Like I was saying over there, I had the ball going a little right, so I kind of know how to bring it back a little bit.   
So the worst is when you're out there and you have no idea how to fix it or stop the bleed.  So I think the biggest thing is he's helped a tremendous amount with my golf swing and my things that kind of go off and how can I bring it back.   
I think that's the biggest thing for any player, is learning your golf swing and learning habits.  Okay, there is a checklist, and how quickly can we get through it and figure it back out.   
 Q.  Felt like you left some out there, too?  
RYANN O'TOOLE: Oh, 100%.  Let's see, coming down the stretch, 6 I had a six-footer I missed for birdie.   
I had a four-footer on 7 and I had an 8-footer on 8.  All were birdies.  They was great strokes.  6 I thought it is going to break right and it didn't.  The other two didn't get enough speed.   
In all honestly, I feel like it's there.  It's kind of nice sometimes when you leave a few out there just because it gives you that hunger for the next day.   
Hey, they're out there.   
 Q.  Have any time to go surfing?  
RYANN O'TOOLE: No.  Living in Scottsdale, there's not too many waves there.  This off-season might be able to get back home and see my family back in California.  I'll be able to hit up some water a little bit.   
 Q.  Is that like next week you're going to head home?  
RYANN O'TOOLE: Well, home is Scottsdale now.  I'll be in Ann Arbor for Thanksgiving, and then a week back in Arizona, and then I am going to go to Orange County after that.   
So I'll be a week there.  It will be nice to just see the family and be able to get in the water and be home for a bit.  Probably close to Christmas I'll head over again.   
I'll have some time to get over there.  Yeah, I do miss it, but at the same time the focus is so much on golf right now that it's all right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT