SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 14, 2014
Jabari Brown
Jordan Clarkson
Frank Haith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll go ahead and get started with an opening statement from coach and then take questions for the student‑athletes. 
COACH HAITH:   Obviously Florida's a great team.   I thought our guys competed hard.   And then I thought just there was 11 minutes to go in the second half, they were shooting 31 percent.   I thought we were just grinding it.   Obviously they made shots and they got it going a little bit, and they did what they do. 
Hats off to them. 
THE MODERATOR:   Take questions for the student‑athletes. 

Q.   Jordan, talk about that point you were down two and Florida went on that run.   Can you talk about how that went for you guys at that point at the 11‑minute mark. 
JORDAN CLARKSON:   We had some turnovers, and we didn't make any shots during that time and they just made shots. 

Q.   Jordan, obviously it seemed like the optimism was pretty high at halftime.   Did they change anything up defensively or anything like that after the half to kind of let game get away from you guys a little bit? 
JORDAN CLARKSON:   They ran a little bit more zone in the second half.   And that's the only change I seen during the game. 

Q.   Jordan, talk about Scottie Wilbekin and how much of a threat he was today from the 3‑point line. 
JORDAN CLARKSON:   He made shots when he was open and he did what he did.   Player of the Year in the conference and he played well tonight. 

Q.   Jabari, what makes their defense so good?   Is it their length, speed, quickness, them playing together?   What makes their defense so good? 
JABARI BROWN:   I feel like they play in tandem with each other well.   They always know where their teammate is going to be at.   And then when they play in the zone, they're pretty long along the back end.   So I think all those things combined, they're a disciplined team. 

Q.   Jabari, at this point any early thoughts on possible post‑season destination for you guys? 
JABARI BROWN:   We'll see tomorrow.   Or Sunday, I should say.   My bad. 

Q.   Jabari, what do you think happened in that second half then?   You guys were playing them tight all the way, and then all of a sudden things turned around. 
JABARI BROWN:   Turnovers.   When they got those turnovers, they were able to hit some threes in transition.   When it's a close game and tight like that, they're big blows.   So they were able to hit those and they were on the offensive glass pretty hard as well. 

Q.   Either of you guys, did you guys struggle getting out and running in transition at all today?
JORDAN CLARKSON:   Maybe in the second half because they converted more.   I think first half we did a good job pushing the ball and scoring in transition. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   We'll excuse you and you can return to the locker room.   Take questions for coach. 

Q.   Did you go a little bit more deliberately in the first half, which obviously was working because they were a little bit gassed from yesterday, or if it had gotten into a running game, would you have been okay?
COACH HAITH:   We really wanted to be patient.   We wanted to score in transition, we had opportunities.   But then we really wanted to run good offense in the first half.   We did a good job of that.   But then you got to continue to score. 
In the second half, we didn't continue to score.   We did turn the ball over.   They were getting second shots, and I thought that was the difference in the game.   Then when we needed to score when they went on a run, we were not able to continue to score. 

Q.   Can you talk about their ability to hit the threes.   They always seemed to be a lot of daggers that they hit, especially in the second half.   Was it just a matter of getting open looks?
COACH HAITH:   They made a couple in transition, Scottie hit a couple against our man defense.   They moved the ball so well.   They really share the ball well. 
They're an experienced club.   They play unselfish basketball and they know where their shooters are at.   They move the ball and they drive you.   Because of that, they force you to help and they get some open looks because of that. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT