AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2018
Frank Haith
Corey Henderson Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Memphis - 67, Tulsa - 64
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with an opening statement from Coach and then take questions.
FRANK HAITH: First of all, I want to congratulate Memphis.  They played hard.  I thought our guys, we just didn't shoot the ball well, and we really have been a good free-throw shooting team all year, and I think the game was lost on the line, we missed 13 free throws.
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Could you kind of talk about, I know you talked about the struggles from the free-throw line, but could you kind of talk about the struggles from behind the arc too, today?
FRANK HAITH: Yeah, well, you know, I'm not going to make excuses for anything, but we get in 7:00 this morning for about 20 minutes in the gym.  So when you get a bye, you don't get opportunities to get in.  But we didn't shoot the ball well, we had some really good looks, we just didn't knock any of them down.  And so it's unfortunate but we had some really, really good looks, we just didn't knock any down.
Q. Could you just kind of talk about how you saw the last play unfolding?
FRANK HAITH: Well, we probably should have came up, I think the wing on that side, and we told our guys to come up and we backed up and he made a tough shot.  He made a really good shot.  Give him credit.
THE MODERATOR: Would you assess where you are at this point of the season.  Obviously the Tournament run ends here, but certainly more to play for potentially.
FRANK HAITH: Well, I hope so.  I'm hoping that we will get support to play in post-season and this team has won -- we finished fourth in the league, like The American, I would hope that our run here at the end of the year would be beneficial in terms of us getting into the NIT.  And that's the hope.
THE MODERATOR: Corey, same question, given maybe expectations what they might have been externally, how you took that internally and turned that into what looks like a pretty successful season.
COREY HENDERSON JR.: I thought that these last I think we were 8-10?  8-10?  I think that we were pretty good, but I mean we lost this one and this one's all the marbles, and so we're just going to hopefully get that bid into the NIT, and hopefully the Committee they select us in and hopefully we get to participate.
THE MODERATOR: Tulsa, thank you.
FRANK HAITH: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT