ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 7, 2011
Frank Haith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH HAITH: Obviously, we had a week where we had a good win against Maryland. I thought our guys played really, really well, put together two really good halves. Then yesterday we finished up in Atlanta at Georgia Tech, and I thought we played one good half. We didn't handle Georgia Tech's pressure very well and ended up losing that ballgame. But we're looking forward to the ACC tournament.   
  
  Q. Could you talk about the first game between the teams? What kind of effect it has on the preparation for this one?   
 COACH HAITH: Yeah, obviously I think we were very fortunate to win that ballgame at our place. I thought Virginia played very well. We just didn't shoot the ball particularly well until overtime. It was one of those games where we just ended up making some plays there at the end.   
 I thought Virginia defensively was very good, and you've got to guard the three-point line against Virginia. They shoot the ball so well, and they're playing very well right now.   
 But that first game was kind of a low-scoring game. Then all of a sudden they're late in that ballgame in overtime both teams got it going a little bit. I anticipate it being much like that ballgame, just being a hard-fought, even kind of game.   
  
  Q. What do you -- what is your impression of Assane Sene. I'm not sure he did a lot in that game. But it seems that if you look at their games, he's had some big games. How do you look at him?   
 COACH HAITH: I think he's really improved, particularly on the offensive end. I think of Sene we always see him as being a good defender, blocking shots, rebounding, and being a presence on the defensive end. But the area he's had some improvements is on the offensive end.   
 You've got to be aware of him, and having quick post-ups and offensive rebounding. So he was a factor in our game. I think when he was on the court in terms of his presence defensively, you could feel it.   
 He's a guy we're concerned with, and doing a job with him in terms of keeping him off the glass, and not giving him angles to score, but also we understand that we've got to make him play D. We've got to go at him. We've got a guy in Reggie Johnson that we've just got to get the ball inside to.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the difficulty of trying to win four games in three days when you probably have to play a team that will be after the first day a little fresher than you guys in every game?   
 COACH HAITH: Well, obviously, there was a reason why it hadn't been done yet in our league. It's extremely hard. I think the mindset is to go in there and worry about competing in that first ballgame.   
 Last year we got to the semifinals and I think one of our kids made the comment, Durant Scott, made a comment that in AAU basketball we play three games in one day. So it's obviously very difficult to win four games to win the tournament, and in our case we're not playing deep with a lot of bodies.   
 So you've got to get your rest and try to get yourself prepared to go out and play. There is no question on that fourth day the team that you play is going to be a lot fresher than you are than the team that's playing in it.   
 Last year Georgia Tech I thought gave it a nice run in that last game against Duke. I've seen teams in the past that have done it and haven't been able to get over the hump. So somebody's eventually going to do it.   
  
  Q. Is it possible? I know it's a disadvantage on Saturday and Sunday, probably. But is it possible to be an advantage on Friday? Obviously, the team that wins on Thursday will have a game under their belt, a positive experience playing the team that's making the tournament debut. Is that a moment when maybe playing that early game gives you at least a little edge?   
 COACH HAITH: Well, in terms of edge, in our case we're going to play probably the hottest team in our league in North Carolina. But I will say this: You do have a feel already. You've played. You've got your feet wet that second day, and that is their first game. So, somewhat. You may have a little bit just because you've been out there.   
 Like I said earlier, in our case we're playing maybe the hottest team in the country or hottest team in our league in North Carolina.   
 But last year we played Wake Forest first round. Then we played a Virginia Tech team, and I felt like we were ready to go and felt good about being on the court and Virginia Tech worked their way into it.   
 Maybe. I don't know if that's that big of a deal. Those teams have gotten a bye, and they're anxious to get on the court to play.   
  
  Q. Can you sort of break down the first game you have coming up? What are you expecting out of that?   
 COACH HAITH: Well, I think our probably going to see two evenly matched teams. I think Virginia is playing very well right now. They shoot the three ball pretty well. We shoot the ball pretty well. They're well-schooled defensively, an outstanding defensive team, so you've got to execute.   
 I think it's a good match-up. Our game here could have gone either way. We could have easily lost to Virginia when they played here. I think it's going to be a game where both teams are hungry and wanting to continue to play and hopefully play in postseason. I think you're looking at two teams that are fighting for something.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT