ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 10, 2011
Frank Haith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: We have with us now Miami head basketball coach, Frank Haith. If you could, a few comments about your team and we'll open it for questions. 
 COACH HAITH: Obviously we are coming off a tough loss the other night at Clemson. Thought our kids, we came into the game, got off to like a slow start and they did a great job of hurting us in the paint. I think they outscored us 24-14 and also had 17 second-chance points. Their big guys out-played our big guys. 
 I will say this, not using this as an excuse, but Reggie Dawson was in a boot all week and did not practice all week and it showed in his play in terms of his timing and losing balls and hopefully he will be back and ready to play next week. He does have bone spurs in his foot. So, you know, another tough place to play. Just we started on the road, two in a row at Duke, at Clemson, two of the tougher places to play in this league, so I think that now we get a chance to come back home and play and looking forward to it. 

 Q. You just played one team that has a new head coach this year, Clemson, and the next team that you play, BC, same situation. They have a lot of players back from last year but they are playing a totally different style. I just wonder how that affects your preparation. 
 COACH HAITH: Well, we have tape and we watch and it's just like we would do obviously, particularly with Clemson's situation, they are totally different, not pressing and doing the things that Oliver did with the team. 
 So in terms of watching them on tape and preparing, it's like we would with any team that we are getting ready to play. That doesn't change other than knowing that they are playing differently. 
 I think that there's some things that have changed in terms of their players, too, in that Grant has improved. He's a much better player than he was last year and it shows in terms of watching him on tape and obviously in our game on Saturday. 

 Q. What have you seen out of Boston College so far, and their style is totally different from the way they used to play? 
 COACH HAITH: Haven't wanted a whole lot of them, catch a game here and there. I know they catch a lot of threes and spread the court and that's how they play. They really attack you in terms of just moving that ball and they shoot a lot of threes. They didn't quite -- obviously they are a flex team under Al in terms of they are an offensive team in what they did. That is totally different than what they did the last couple of years. But they are kind of an open-court team, spread the court, and they shoot a lot of threes, but I'll know more after diving into it and spending more time on the tape. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for taking time for being with us today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT