NCAA MEN'S FIRST FOUR: DAYTON
March 16, 2016
Frank Haith
Brandon Swannegan
Shaquille Harrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Michigan - 67, Tulsa - 62
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by the head coach of the Tulsa Golden Hurricane Frank Haith as well as Brandon Swannegan and Shaquille Harrison.  Coach, an opening statement.
FRANK HAITH: Obviously I thought our guys played their hearts out.  I thought we -- Michigan had more breaks than us.  There were a couple of plays there you can point out where there was a loose ball and it bounces to the big kid and he dunks it.  And then we have one.  And it just doesn't go our way.
They bank a 3 in at the clock.  And 21 hit a big shot.  And then we just didn't -- we didn't have those kind of breaks.  And that's usually what happens in these types of games.  Give Michigan credit.  But our defense was excellent.  I thought we took the lead there with Shaq hit the dunk and then we came down, we fouled a 3-point shooter, and I thought we had momentum right there.  But these seniors busted their tail all year, and I'm proud of the kind of year we had.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Shaquille, in the last couple of minutes things kind of seemed to go their way like Coach said.  Could you describe the feelings in the last couple of minutes of the game as it was unfolding?
SHAQUILLE HARRISON: Honestly, just trying to keep the team together, everybody still focused.  Like Coach said, the ball bounced their way a couple times, but you can't get flustered by that.  You've got to keep playing no matter what.  Like hopefully some balls go our ways as I look at it.  But unfortunately it didn't.  I give credit to Michigan.  Not only the ball's going their way; they played a great game.
Q. You guys did a good job on the 3-point shooters, really head them back.  Could you talk about the strategy there?
SHAQUILLE HARRISON: Going in, we put emphasis on guarding the 3-point line and guarding our man, keeping the ball in front of us.  I feel like my team they did great in that category today.  We prepared well for it and it carried over onto the court.
BRANDON SWANNEGAN: I agree with Shaq.  We practiced, high hands on shooters, take away their vision.  And that's what we did.  And I think it carried over to the game very well.  And I just think that's what happened.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT