AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 14, 2015
Frank Haith
Rashad Ray
James Woodard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 CONNECTICUT   - 47
  TULSA   - 42 
  
MODERATOR:   Gentlemen, ladies, we would like to welcome from the Tulsa Golden Hurricane Head Coach Frank Haith, junior guards James Woodard, and Rashad Ray.   Coach, can you give us an opening statement?  
COACH HAITH:   Obviously it was a tough loss for us.   I thought our guys competed their butts off.   We played extremely hard, we played to win.   We rebounded the ball well.   Under the circumstances, you know, playing in a tournament setting, the atmosphere today, and I thought our guys handled everything well, other than just win the game at the end.  
MODERATOR:   Thank you, Coach.   Questions?  
   
 Q.   James, do you feel like this is a game that y'all had in grasp and it slipped away or was it more UConn just making those plays late in the game?  
JAMES WOODARD:   We came out, we competed hard, we did, we felt like we did a good job throughout the game except the last four minutes they took control.   If you don't shut out a game, anything can happen in college basketball.   Hats off to UConn and they just finished the game.  
   
 Q.   Rashad, can you talk about you guys had the 10-point lead with 6:35 to play after that layup.   What happened from that point on?   Did they just shut you down on defense or was it nerves, was it the crowd, what was it?  
RASHAD RAY:   I just think us not being disciplined and just going through our plays and stuff like that.   I just think we should have just been more aggressive with the ball and just, yeah, hats off to UConn about having a great defensive effort on us.  
   
 Q.   For both you guys, this is a pretty tough place to play.   Do you think that that had any effect on y'all late in the game when the team is coming back and the crowd's really into it?  
JAMES WOODARD:   They just played pretty good, they strung together a run, they got defensive stops and we failed on defense.   Like I said earlier, you don't -- play 40 minutes and anything can happen.  
   
 Q.   James, do you feel you guys have done enough at this point to have earned an NCAA bid and kind of make your case?  
JAMES WOODARD:   Just it's in the committee's hands, you know.   We just playing one game at a time.   We just going to let the NCAA committee, whatever that is, just handle it itself.   We just worried about Tulsa.   Whatever happens, happens.  
   
 Q.   This is for the players.   The UConn defense was incredible toward the end of that game.   What made them so difficult to face today?  
JAMES WOODARD:   I think they just tightened up.   They got more aggressive.   Then we did a great job rebounding, but down the stretch they closed out possessions on rebounds and made plays.  
MODERATOR:   Anything else?   Thank you, gentlemen.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT