PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2016
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN SENDEN: I felt like I played really well today.  I played solid early and got off to a good start.  Birdied the 11th hole and made myself feel good.  The conditions early were quite gettable, I thought.  It was really calm.  I was going along nicely.
It seems like as soon as we made the turn, the wind got up a little bit more and the greens started to get a little bit more baked out.  The wind played tricks on, I think, most players out there this afternoon.
Happy to be in the house at 2-under par.  That gives me good momentum for tomorrow.
Q. Nice bunker save at 1 and then another nice bunker save at 8 to keep it going?
JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I scrambled well today.  Plus I hit a lot of good iron shots.  I think that the golf course is really winning at the moment.  It's bouncy, it's tough.  I think, in the beginning of the week, there was going to be lower scoring, they found out tough Baltusrol can be.  I'm happy to be the position I'm in.
Q. Coming off 23rd from Canada, what is the state of the game right now?  Confidence high?
JOHN SENDEN: It's been sort of hot and cold year.  I haven't really performed fantastic.  Battled most weeks out on the PGA Tour.  My 23rd place was good last week, but I played well on the weekend.  That gave me some good feels for this week.  Practiced well leading up to Thursday, or today.  I believe that I'm sort of in a good place, gaining some momentum for the last major and also the playoffs coming up.
Q. How important was it -- as you saw the weather changing, how important is it to get done, especially get done at 2-under?
JOHN SENDEN: I knew at the start of the week I thought, man, my draw is really good.  First out, light early is always pretty nice for me.  I thought if we can get through today without any delays, I've got a nice start in the morning, early in the morning.  I know the weather might be a little bit dicey in the morning, but hey, I'm the first one out tomorrow.  The golf course will be right there for the best of the greens.  So, yeah, I've been feeling like it's starting to come around.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT