MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JOHN SENDEN:   Today was up‑and‑down.   I really actually felt more comfortable today than I was yesterday.   Playing with Bubba yesterday, on the lead, the leading group, was probably one of the toughest rounds of golf I've had in a Major Championship and on a demanding golf course.   
So I had to stay disciplined, had to stay patient with this place, and thrilled to hopefully top‑10 and then get back here again next year and see if I can improve again.   
   
 Q.   You've done more than just hang in there though, I know that's really a modest way of putting it, you haven't got the Green Jacket, but you've done really well here.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I did well not to sneak at the leaderboards and see my name up there.   I think that that gives you a little bit of distractions that can hurt you.   
But it's a lovely place to play golf.   It's the Masters and that's what we dream of as kids.   Now that we're in the mix, it's great.   
   
 Q.   I think the last few years may have proven that, to you and to everybody, that you can really contend here and you can win here, regardless.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, that's right.   I felt like in my heart that if I was to keep it disciplined this week I could win this week.   I said last night that if I go out and shoot the round of my life, you're winning the Tournament.   And I really felt, in my own heart, going out there on the first tee, I could do that.   
But the golf course is just demanding, it just doesn't let up low scores.   So if you can just stay patient and play great shots and get a little bit of luck, this place is getable.   But you have to hit shots all day.   You can miss shots and expect to walk off with easy pars.  
   
 Q.   You didn't come here with the intention of finishing in the Top‑12, you came here with the intention of winning.   But now that this is all said and done and you are going to be in the Top‑12 and you are going to be back next year, how much is that a bonus now when you walk out of here?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Totally.   Total bonus.   I agree with what you said totally.   
It's one thing to come here and want to win the golf tournament and a Green Jacket.   I saw Adam Scott do it last year and it was fantastic, it gave us all inspiration.   We look up to Adam still.   
Now that he did open the door last year, with the Aussies, with the momentum coming in here, it was right there for us, really.   I thought we were all playing well.   It was just a matter of just going for it.   
Also finishing off top‑10 and coming back next year, I mean, it's great.   I can't be more happy.   
   
 Q.   It's just going to keep the roll that you've had going, obviously the week here, you're playing well and it's going to catapult you the rest of this season.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah.   Exactly.   I thought that this year the body has felt a lot better.   Last year I struggled with feelings in the body.   Rewind 12 months ago, I had a really good schedule lined up for this tournament and I just didn't feel right.   My body was just hurting in places, I couldn't swing the club to my full potential, and it hurt me physically and mentally.   
Then when I got through it, basically not until probably November or September last year, I felt good about myself again with my body and started to actually show some form.   Firstly, when I went home to Australia to play the Australian Open and then I kicked it off at the beginning of the year feeling great.   
So I knew that this year was going to be a lot better than it was last year.   But also winning the a tournament was a great bonus for me and gave me the confidence to play well here.   
   
 Q.   Two years ago this place held demons for you, didn't it, now you're going to walk out of here confident for next year.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Exactly.   Last year I almost got myself up there before, I think the golf course suits me and I did a good job through 36 holes last year.   
Then it was almost like, it almost like got to me on the weekend.   And I didn't handle it as well as I wanted to and I was disappointed because all my friends were up on the leaderboard, Leishman and Scotty and Day and they were right there and I was kind of like falling away.   I was sort of frustrated for that, but in the end last year I was proud to see my mates do so well, winning the golf tournament and Leishman finishing third and Day was right there as well, third, I think.   
It was fantastic.   I couldn't be more happy for us as a team of Australian players doing so well.   This year was the same.   The momentum was, I really felt like that one of us was going to do it again this week, because of the way we were all going.   Scotty was just playing great.   Look at him at Bay Hill, he was killing them.   
Last year, he just cleaned us all up last year in Australia.   We all thought that was something that was just, I thought, going to happen.   But there's a lot of good players up there, too, so you got to beat quality fields if you want to do well.   They don't just hand them out to anyone.  
   
 Q.   The fact that you come in here and play well and you leave now, do you leave with even maybe a little more confidence leaving here than you came in with?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Definitely.   Definitely.   You have to.   I would be silly not to go away from here thinking that I would feel the same.   Top‑10 finish and being in contention, playing in the last group gives me the utmost greatest experience.   Knowing that, okay, well, if I get into the final group again next year, well I'll hopefully handle it better.   
I thought I handled myself well, but it's a matter of doing the details a little bit better, that discipline to let go or to have the mental belief to go and get it and hit the shots all day.   I really tried hard to do it this week and it was good fun.   
   
 Q.   I'm assuming that also helps you going into Pinehurst and Valhalla and Hoy Lake?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT