MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2014
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN SENDEN:   Up and down day, sort of.   I actually enjoyed it.   It was good watching Bubba Watson play, because he was playing very, very good golf.   And he shot well leading into the tournament, as well.  
I had to stick to my guns.   I had to try and swing within because that's the way he plays.  
But the golf course really, I think, one, today, it was drying out even more and more.   All the greens that are sitting out in the open in the sun have‑‑ are quite dry.   And the ones like 12 and there's a few others that sort of sit in the shade more so than others, and have got more grass on them.   So I think it fluctuates just a little bit in regards to speed.   Some of the greens are dried out.   And they're very, very quick.   Some of the quickest greens I've putted on, ever.  
   
 Q.   Really?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Oh, yeah.   
   
 Q.   I think you've shown heart to come back, after the front nine.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, even though my score was going in the wrong direction, I was still feeling pretty good about myself.   I was still hanging around even par and then I got some really nice birdies on 8 and 9 which put me back in position.   
And then I felt like I played quite well on the back nine, as well, but just didn't drive the ball quite well enough coming down the stretch.   And put myself in some better spots.  
But how could you still be four off the lead with the way I felt out there?   I still believe that I've got a chance tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You're pleased with the way you handled the pressure of this situation?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, we spoke about it.   Today was sort of a long day.   You have a long time before you tee off.   So the thing is, this is why we practice, to get a late tee time in a Major, in any PGA TOUR event.   But I think that I have to learn from this experience today and take it for tomorrow.   I'll still be teeing off late tomorrow.   But it's going to be a different feel again tomorrow, because Sunday is always the toughest day.   And then you get out there and play my game as well as I can.   And hopefully I can play the round of my life.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit off the tee on 18?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, I felt like I didn't hit that bad a tee shot.   It started straight and cut, but it looked like it was kind of going at the very tallest trees on the right side.   And Bubba hit the same shot.   And his ricocheted one way, and mine ricocheted the other way.   I was coming out of the scoreboard, and now I'm taking a drop from the scoreboard.   So it was an unfortunate break, but actually ended up okay, other than being in the trees.  
   
 Q.   How hard did Josh have to work to get you the yardage?  
JOHN SENDEN:   I don't know if he even had the right yardage.   There was so many people down there, he didn't have a clue where I was.   But I felt like I had a good feel for the shot.   He had a feel from where he was yesterday and today.   He did a good job to get the number.   
   
 Q.   Playing with Bubba and getting in that final pair on the weekend on a Major championship, when you think back to your first matches, how far have you come learning the golf course and getting yourself in this position?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I think experience‑‑ it tells me a lot.   You've got to be able to learn the golf course and learn the feels for it.   Because you never know, you know, what to expect when you come here first.   And I didn't.   I struggled the first year I come here as opposed to now I'm feeling a lot better about myself and about the golf course.   I know kind of how things work around here now.   And playing a little better, coming in with confidence.   I was happy to go out there and have a pretty good day, even though my score was 3‑over, it was a tough day.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the birdie on No. 9?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, I didn't see‑‑ I didn't actually see it, but it looked like it hit the pin and just went past the pin about a foot.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit in there?  
JOHN SENDEN:   8‑iron.  
   
 Q.   If you had been given this score on Wednesday, four shots off the lead coming into Sunday, would you have taken it?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, you're in contention.   I've got to take it because you are in the heat.   And Sunday at the Masters is always interesting on the back nine.   Anything can happen.  
The golf course is playing difficult, but I think you can really get the back nine in some certain spots.   Look at the way 13 and 15 played today.   If you drive the ball well on the back you've got a good opportunity to shoot good scores.  
   
 Q.   What is the round of your life you mentioned a minute ago, what did it entail?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, I can't tell you the exact score of my round, but it would be putting on the green jacket.   That would be the round of my life.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT