MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Congratulations.   Great round.   You have to like your position for the weekend?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I am.   I'm excited to keep doing what I've been doing, playing good golf.   And if I keep believing in myself and enjoying it, that's the difference when you're under the pressure, if you can keep a smile on your face.   There's plenty of ups and downs on this golf course. 
But with the golf course drying out, I think that if I just get out there and just play my game, I just want to get out there and do my best, and that's good enough.   That will be great.

Q.   How quick is it out there?
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, it's gradually getting faster and faster.   I think that some greens have a little more bite than others.   I think the 18th green is quite dry and fast.
And then some of the other greens that sit in the shade a bit more are not that quick.   But the golf course is in fabulous shape.   And I'm excited to go out for the weekend.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JOHN SENDEN:   No, that's right.   I was feeling pretty good up there.   I was reasonably relaxed and just playing shots.   And with doing that work I was able to keep the momentum going my way and had the will to keep it going.

Q.   There was a couple of times it could have gotten away from you, but you kept the smile on your face and made some good putts. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I think this golf course is more about having the confidence to take the shots, but also about accepting it, as well.   I've been here four or five times now and learned where to go and where not to go.   But you can't not try not to go there.   You just have to accept where the ball does end up and play the best shot that you can.   Be smart if you're not in position, because the secret of this course, I think, is to‑‑ obviously there's plenty of opportunities with birdies, but it's more likely keeping the big numbers off the card.   And that kind of puts you straight out of contention.   And if you can do that well you have a chance.

Q.   Have you played with Bubba before?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, yeah, yeah. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JOHN SENDEN:   What happens? 

Q.   You just roll it in, play your game?
JOHN SENDEN:   No, I'll be nervous on the first tee tomorrow.   I've been nervous every day teeing off, that's a good thing.   But it's about me just doing the work, just get out there, get it down the middle and play the next shot.
I think that it's about me having the discipline to do that.   If I can do that well then that can be good enough.

Q.   How great is it when you had a win so recently, so the confidence is there?   You know that obviously you've been in this position recently and you can get it done if you stick to your game plan. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, well, that's exactly what I have to do.   I have to stick to the game plan, and that's doing my job well.   That's the only thing I can do.   Bubba has his game plan and I think that I could just go out there and hit shots and hit putts.   And if I can do that well tomorrow, well, I will‑‑ that will be great because I know that I can accept‑‑ the ups and downs during the day, I can accept that, too.   It's just about how you play the game.   And I think that's why we're at the top.   We can deal with it.

Q.   Was it putting stuff you were working on?
JOHN SENDEN:   It's the confidence thing that‑‑ from the win this year, and playing well in Australia last year, as well.   And coming into this year with some turnaround momentum.   I've been feeling good from that.   I've been having some really good sessions with Triggsy and I've been believing that‑‑ we've got a little system going.   So we just need to continue to do that to keep improving as a player.
Today is only one day out of a whole career.   There's a long way to go.   So I just need to keep on doing what I do well.   It's about me keeping on playing well.   And that's the only thing I can do. 
I don't know what Bubba is going to do.   I don't know what Freddie Couples is going to do tomorrow.   I can't control that.   I just have to do my job well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT