VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2014
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     So, good round of golf out there.  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I felt good out there today.   I got off to a good start.   I birdied the 1st.   I warmed up well this morning.   We've been working on pretty good stuff this week.   I finally have taken it from the range to the golf course.   So, happy with my round today and good momentum for Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Most of the players I talked to, the greens seem to be a lot better, especially early today, but they seem to be staying a little better.   I mean the greens are getting a little tough in the afternoon around the hole.  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, there's a lot of grain on the greens.   The ball seemed to turn a lot when you're putting.   So you really got to take note of the way the grain reads and also the slope of the putts.   But the greens are in perfect shape and with no breeze, the golf course is -- you know, you can get it today.  
   
 Q.   I think more than anything you have the ability to put the ball in the fairway for the most part but hitting 16 of 18 greens is how you got to get it done at the golf course.  
JOHN SENDEN:   That's right.   I think you got to strike the ball well.   You got to do everything well around this golf course.   I enjoy playing here.   I had a good day today, I enjoyed myself and just try to go out there and do my job and, you know, had a good day.  
   
 Q.   What a shocker, one of the best iron players on Tour and he likes to play golf at a course where you have to hit a lot of good iron shots.  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, exactly.   It's fun to do it at the right time.   
   
 Q.   John, you made about 140 feet worth of putts today.   What was going on with your putter?   
JOHN SENDEN:   I got the golf ball close early in the day and started off with a nice little birdie on 1 and got the momentum going in the right direction.   
I had a lot of good chances to hole putts and I was just trying to be free, trying to putt like I do on the practice putting green and, you know, I took it straight to the golf course today.   I felt happy to do.  
   
 Q.   When you went out there did you know about Retief's 64, that possibly scores were out there?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I looked at the board and saw his score up there he obviously had a fantastic round as well.   Yeah, I mean he's a class player and strikes the ball really well and, you know, no reason low scores aren't out there because the conditions of the golf course are perfect and the day is beautiful.   
So, get out there and try to play the best golf you can.  
   
 Q.   Tough to say now what the number going into tomorrow is going to be.   What kind of mindset do you take into Sunday's round?  
JOHN SENDEN:   I've just got to look at what I did today.   I did most things well today.   I was staying in the present with what I was trying to do.   I struck the ball well.   I wasn't getting fast with my swing at all.   I was feeling relaxed on the greens and, you know, with the pressure tomorrow, I've got to learn to do that under the pressure and, if I can do that, I think I'm -- I have a chance to, you know, hopefully be right up there at the end of the day.  
   
 Q.   What a nice putt that was.  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, thanks.  
   
 Q.   You love this golf course.   Certainly you showed it on 18.   Talk about your round.  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, the round was solid.   I struck the ball really well early on in the day and continued to do that right through the whole round.   My goal was to try and keep the same, same speed with what I was doing all day, like my swing speed and my walking and routine, and I did that.   
So, get out there tomorrow and the goal is to do that again and try and play my game.   I can't control what any other player does but I can go out there and do the best I can do and hopefully get out there and be on the top of the leaderboard at the end of the day.  
   
 Q.   30-footer and 40-footer on some of the slopiest greens on the schedule.   So, what's the difficulty in trying to get -- difficulty in trying to read the greens?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Right.   The greens are slopy and with the particular overseed that they use here which is the winter grass, they still have the grain on them, so you see the shiny parts of the green, you see into the grain so you see lots of differences in speed with down-grain putts, into the grain putts and slopes.   
So, I basically -- if you read the greens well in regards to your breaking putts that break more than, say, Bay Hill does or more than what the Honda course does, so really got to take into consideration and that's what holds the scoring up at this golf course.   
You always see the scoring not getting away, not wide as there is because of the difficulty of the golf course and the greens.   You know, you have to be smart spot on or else, you know, you're working hard for your score.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT