THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 9, 2013
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   John, your thoughts on a good day of a Saturday, 69?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah.   Good day.   I felt like I was in control of my game today.   I struck the ball nicely and I've got a good feel for the greens this week.   I just have to stay patient on this golf course because you get out there and you can play well and shoot a good score, but you can come unstuck pretty quick, too.   So tomorrow is another testing day, and go out there and believe in it and see how I play.

Q.   I mentioned your thoughts because no one really got away, the leaderboard got quite bunched up.   And low was 65, almost the same as the tough day yesterday. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah.   I think it's just the way the golf course plays.   I think the golf course is drying out even more, especially on the greens.   There's more trickier pin spots out there.   I think that it's a true test of golf.   I think that even though it's soft when you land in the fairways, the greens are still firm, so it holds the scores up, especially with a bit of breeze.

Q.   In contention for tomorrow.   Does that change your plan strategy wise?
JOHN SENDEN:   I think my strategy is pretty good.   I felt like I was doing a good job tee to green.   I feel like I'm making decisions of staying in the tournament.   And I'm just going to play my game.

Q.   It's a good day.   Good luck tomorrow. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Thanks. 

Q.   How patient did you have to be on that Back 9 waiting for that birdie to come?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, absolutely.   I think it's‑‑ you know, I turned and I was feeling good from the front nine, so made a little mistake long on 10, but I had to take the medicine and take a bogey.   But from that point on I still felt pretty good. 
I made some good saves on, I think it was 14 and 15.   And then managed to get a bonus, so I was happy.

Q.   What does your mindset do when you know the leaderboard is bunched up like it usually is here, especially on Sunday, what does that do to your mindset on last day?
JOHN SENDEN:   I think it's going to be bunched up again tomorrow.   I think that tomorrow's day is supposed to be pretty good, so I think you might see a few low scores coming from the pack coming out.   Right around the lead it just seems that everyone just seems to try and go out there and hang on basically is basically what playing tournaments is about.   But I think that if I was to go out there and play my game and that's good enough, I'll be happy.

Q.   Is that what you say is the most important thing for you tomorrow?
JOHN SENDEN:   Absolutely.   I gotta stay in my little bubble and do what's important for me, not for what score is available or what.   But I think it'll be a good day tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT