SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 18, 2013
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Fresh off a 66, you missed the cut last week at the Fry's.   What did you find?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I've been doing some good work on and around the greens this week.   I felt I was pretty close on Friday to starting to turn the game around, and looking forward to playing these great golf courses, especially out here in Vegas.   I found some nice form and I'm feeling good out there. 

Q.   Haven't played here in a while.   Last time you did play in Vegas you tied for 11th so you've had some good karma here.   What is it about this golf course?
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, the conditions are really nice, the clear weather, desert‑style golf, it's beautiful.   The greens are always lovely to putt on and generally light breezes.   If you can't enjoy this, you can't enjoy much golf anyway.
But going out there and playing nicely, so hopefully we can keep up with the pace for the weekend.

Q.   We saw a 60 on this golf course yesterday.   What kind of number ultimately do you think it's going to take?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, well, I need to keep on making birdies out there.   It's not as much building a score, it's just about doing a great job on making birdies, and if that's good enough to do it, well, hopefully it'll be me. 

Q.   65‑66, if you keep putting those rounds together good things seem to happen. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I played well yesterday, and I tried to just move into today with the same form and managed to stay free on the greens, which is crucial for me.   I need to go out there and do the same job on the weekend, and hopefully we can keep on tapping on that leaderboard.

Q.   Hot start to start your round today, then you kind of got on the par train.   On this golf course when you start stringing pars together do you start to feel nervous?
JOHN SENDEN:   Not so much nervous, but you always want to press to keep making birdies, because this is a birdie‑fest, this golf course, with the conditions of the day, both days, and also the conditions on the greens.   It's perfect.   You just get out there and have a good score.   They're all out there, so it should be good.

Q.   You've seen this golf course late in the afternoon, now you've seen it bright and early in the morning.   You're going to see it in the afternoon more than likely tomorrow.   How has it sort of been a different track as the day has gone on?
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, the morning conditions the ball wasn't traveling as far today, so I felt like I had to be aware of that.   Yesterday the ball was traveling a long way, so you could reach the par‑5s.   Today it was a day where, say, for instance, like a hole like No.13, it was unreachable today because it was into the breeze and cool conditions.   It was quite cool teeing off today.   But now the day is absolutely perfect, and there's no excuses for not good scores this afternoon, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT