THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2015
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was the big difference between rounds 1 and 2 and today?JOHN SENDEN: Well, I got out there early today, a little bit of rain overnight, the greens softened up a bit more, and I knocked a few putts in from long range today and got the momentum on my side, and I just felt like I was in a nice groove, so I went out there and just tried to believe in myself and do the job, and ended up with a nice score.Q. Our overnight leaders tee off at 2:40.  They're sitting at 8-under par.  As these conditions get tougher, do you feel like you've made up enough ground to still contend on Sunday?JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I've got to shoot another nice score tomorrow, a low score.  I think somewhere in double figures might get the job done.  That means I'd have to play really well again tomorrow to be a chance.  Lots of great players atop the leaderboard, and who knows, this might be my lucky week.Q. You were one of the few birdies so far on 17.  Can you talk about that pin placement and how we're going to see that play out today?JOHN SENDEN: Well, that breeze is a little bit off the right and helping, so it probably plays easier than most other days.  You know, got a nice backstop behind the pin, too, which allows the ball to spin back a little bit.  But 17 has always been full of drama, so anything can happen out there.Q. Easier pin placement is still never easy, right?JOHN SENDEN: It's never easy.Q. You did what you had to do today.JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, yesterday I had some pretty good momentum on the greens.  I had a nice few saves at the end of the day to helped stick with making the cut, I guess, so I tried to just keep that attitude today and managed to go out there early and -- you know, I played the front nine really well.  I was just out of position on a few of those holes with my drives, and that made it tough to get near the greens. Going forward, you need to drive the ball really well here to shoot a great score, and I did that.  Just the few holes I was out of position, it was just so difficult to get the ball on the greens.  Three bogeys, which is not so bad, but managed to really do a good job on the greens and get some birdies.Q. And at least puts you in a position where you can put a (inaudible) in it; at worst you would have a reasonably high finish, at worst?JOHN SENDEN: Exactly.  I think the scoring, if you are driving the ball well here, as I said before, it's gettable this afternoon.  A little bit of rain overnight, yesterday.  I think made the course that little bit tender green back in there, but tomorrow it's going to be   I think with no rain today, it's going to dry right out and it's going to be full of drama.  I think I need to keep doing my job, keep on believing that I could do it, and try and get in contention.Q. It seems like it's all about momentum for you right now.  You are really sort of building into that U.S. Open   Texas obviously first   and U.S. Open?JOHN SENDEN: Exactly.  That's the goal.  I'm feeling a lot better, as I said before, with my body throughout this season.  End of last year was terrible and then even the beginning of this year was tough on the hip region.  So I've been trying to really work hard to get fit and that's been less distracting, getting more fit, and get out there and start playing some golf shots.Q. What would it mean for you to contend tomorrow in the tournament?JOHN SENDEN: Well, tomorrow is going to be a day where I've just got to do my job.  I have to play really well.  I have to stay in my little bubble, and my goal is to be in contention for a chance.  That's all. I can't put a lot of expectation on it, but I have to just slide right under there and keep doing my work.  So I'm looking to give myself a chance to win the championship because there's a lot of great players up there and I have to keep believing that, but I just do my job properly and hopefully I'll be there.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT