MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your day. 
JOHN SENDEN:   I was in there for awhile and you know, I was really happy the way I held my composure with the wind and the conditions.   So I mean you get right around on 8 and I'm still right there.   The guys aren't going anywhere, anything in the red is a good chance for the weekend. 
It was tough to see Jason and Marc there too.   So it gives you a lot of inspiration to try and be part of a team, the Aussie team.   You got to get into it. 

Q.   Doubly so given yesterday when you were a bit up‑and‑down, to be so consistent today. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, well it was a challenge today.   I was playing well enough to shoot something nicely out there and I just had to stop the mistakes.   This is a golf course where you can get it and then you got to play really well on the, when you're slightly out of position, scrambling.   Today I scrambled well through 12, 13 holes and when you look at it, I think that I left a few out there.   But then again I scrambled well on the front nine to hang in there. 
So I was shooting my best score ever here, so.

Q.   What does that mean to you?
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, it's good.   It's a stepping stone for me.   I have to take that as a positive and say that I have as much chance as anyone out here on the weekend.

Q.   What's it like to finally see your name on the Masters leaderboard?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, it was fun.   It was fun.   I actually looked at it and thought, you know, that's cool. 
Except that it's something that, you know, I'm supposed to, that's what I'm supposed to do.   So get out there and try and see if you can accept the challenge to get on the leaderboard and see how you handle it.   This is why we practice so hard for.   So to look at that and say, you know what, I need to go out and get it for the weekend.

Q.   With that in mind you played some really hard holes really well today.   You cashed in where you meant to cash in. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, there was some chances and then again I had a chance on 13, but I made a good save on 12.   So it balances itself out here, doesn't have to be a pretty picture, there's some ways to get around this place.   And today I was, today it was pretty and then there was kind of so so. 
So I just got to go home now and save energy and come back out fresh here and do the same goal tomorrow.

Q.   Did you just block your tee shot on 16?
JOHN SENDEN:   A little bit, yeah.   I was trying to look for that slope and the wind was hard off the left there too.   So just a 6‑iron is a lot to hit on that hole and to get to the pin you got to hit that club.   So even if you hit one way up there and it catches down earlier and have a putt at it.   But the pin that far back, you really have to go back after it, because it's, there's so much slope even back behind the hole.   Because you hit a putt up there and it almost comes backwards at you.   So, but it was good.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT