WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2012
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. John, just comment on your day.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, played well today.   The last two days have been great.   I've been driving the ball well.   Just need to get out there and do the same work, and hopefully I'm there on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   You've had a tendency the last couple years it seems to play pretty well in big events.   Just talk about that.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I like to‑‑ I've been gearing up for the bigger events this year, and I've been playing consistently all year.   I think that hopefully I can keep the trend going in regards to the big events.   Working into this weekend and PGA next week and lots of FedEx Playoff events coming up, so I need to stay focused, and that's what's been the difference the last couple years.  
   
 Q.   Was it hard to get the pace on the greens early on?  
JOHN SENDEN:   The pace?   Yeah, the greens were just not quite as fiery, a little bit of moisture on them, a bit of dew on them.   I think a couple putts I had above the hole today were pretty slippery.   I had one‑‑ I had a couple above the hole from‑‑ one on 14, and then 17 was a quick putt.   So anything above the hole is lightning, but anything below the hole is a bit into the grain, so you can hit them so you can get them.   I think that's the difference with the morning field this morning.   This afternoon with a bit of wind about maybe they'll dry out more and get quicker for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Was it playing a little bit more difficult than Thursday?  
JOHN SENDEN:   I don't think so, no, no different from the two days.   Yesterday was no breeze.   Maybe this afternoon we'll have a touch more breeze.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like this sets up well for you?   Is this one of the golf courses you look forward to?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, it's a good driving course.   You need to drive it straight.   If you're not driving it straight, you're finding it tough to get on the greens.   Especially with the long rough and the severity of the greens and the slopiness of the fairways, it's tough to hit a lot of fairways, so yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT