JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2012
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good round for you today. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I played well.   Got off to a pretty good start.   Front nine was really good.
Yeah, the scoring ability wasn't quite so good on the back, but still I'm hanging around.

Q.   You're former champion here.   You've got to feel very comfortable on this course. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I think so.   I think it's a nice TPC to play.   It's a beautiful course.   The facility is fantastic.   Nice and easy conditions. 

Q.   This year you played very solid golf.   You seem to have great confidence.   Do you feel that way?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah.   I feel like I'm playing well.   I'd like to sort of play a roll in the major championships as well.   So doing that so, so I think I can hopefully go out there tomorrow and do the same work and put a low number up there. 

Q.   Finally, going into Sunday, as you mentioned, you've been here before.   How does it feel when you're sitting in a contending position?   Are you restless?   Ready to get going?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, look, I'm playing well.   Just got to stick to my guns and go out there and play well.   I know I've got to shoot a low number to hopefully win the golf tournament.
If I can do that, I'll be a happy man. 

Q.   Good round for you today.   Up and down, though.   Talk about your thoughts. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I don't think it was up and down.   I didn't have any bogeys.   Four birdies on the front nine.   Got off to a good start.   Thought I was going to shoot a nice number, but left a few out there on the back nine. 
I think if I go out there tomorrow and do the same work, I believe I can shoot a lower number and hopefully be in contention.

Q.   You talked about it yesterday, but Zach talked about what it takes on a Sunday.   You know what it takes. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah.   I've been here before, so I feel that confidence going into tomorrow.   The golf course is right there.   The greens are in great shape.   Just got to get out there and stick it close and knock those putts in.

Q.   Will it take a low score? 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I think so.   I think the leaders are probably 16‑, 17‑under right now.   I think it's going to take somewhere right around 20, maybe better.
But if I can go out there and shoot in the mid‑60s I'll be hopefully right around it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT