WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2012
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You backed up yesterday's round nicely today.   I thought the most impressive thing was your putting outside of 60 feet.   Three occasions you had to make putts from around 60 feet and you two‑putted all of them.   Maybe that just kept things going for you.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, it certainly did today.   I thought that I had a lot of one‑putts out there, and I just felt like I just had to get those close once as close as you can.   The greens are so undulating that if you were to hit shots in, sometimes they can roll so far away from the pins even if you hit good shots anyway.   
I felt like I gave myself some chances, I just had the attitude of trying to get them close, and lucky enough to two‑putt them all.  
   
 Q.   You put three birdies together on your first nine of the day when you played the back nine to start.   I thought 7 was an interesting situation and you really kept your composure and limited the damage there.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I hit a great drive down the middle.   I only had a reasonable distance to the hole, so it ended up that the green was going into me, and I held up a 5‑iron because you don't want to make any mistakes short.   I hit it pretty good and it landed on the upper tier and it ran into a tree so I could only chip it out, and then I had no shot at the flag for my fourth shot so I had to play away from the pin and actually made a pretty good 6.  
   
 Q.   You limited the damage very nicely.   Give us the outlook for the weekend now, right in the thick of things.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, it's right where I want to be.   I've been practicing hard to try and get into these positions now.   It's time to keep on playing my game, just to keep on believing that I can compete with the best players in the world.   
   
 Q.   Another good day on the course for you.   Just comment if you can.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I had a good day today.   I got off to a good start with three birdies in a row on the back nine, on 13, 14, 15, so that pretty much kicked off nice momentum coming into those tougher holes, 16, 17, 18.   I got through those pretty well.   I did well there on my front nine, which was my second nine holes.   I just felt like I was solid all day.   The wind conditions definitely made the golf course probably one to one‑and‑a‑half shots more difficult, and I was happy to walk in with a score in the 60s.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the bunker shot that set you up for that birdie.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, the 5th hole.   I hit my drive just in the left rough and then I hit a 4‑iron around the corner in the trees.   Took maybe a 30‑yard bunker shot and ended up tapping it in from about one and a half feet.   I think that was a good momentum builder, as well, because I was‑‑ I made a good up‑and‑down on 2, good up‑and‑down on 4, and then a nice birdie on 5.   But it was nice to keep building the round.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about being in position going into the weekend, being a late tee time.   You don't necessarily need to be leading this thing yet.   
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I mean, the golf course is definitely showing its teeth now with a little bit more breeze around.   I think if the storms or whatever they're predicting over the next couple days stay away, the golf course will play really difficult.   But if it starts raining again, I think that the golf course will soften up again and you'll see good scores.  
If the golf course can stay dry, I believe the leaders are not really going to get too far away.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT