WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2012
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   John Senden joins us, 6‑under par 66.   Great round out there.   If we can just get some comments. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, felt good out there.   The golf course is in perfect shape, perfect morning for golf today, light breezes.   I think they added a little bit of moisture to the greens overnight, so it made for attractive shot making out there.   So I think that ‑‑ I got off to a good start, birdied the 1st hole, birdied the 4th, and basically set the scene for the rest of the day.   I just drove the ball well, and the momentum continued right through the whole round. 

Q.   Did you get the putter going?   What was special about today?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, the putting was good today, solid.   You know, I birdied 1 and had three in a row there, 5, 6 and 7 there, and that was good.   I've been feeling good with the putter most of the year.   The last probably 12 months my golf has been quite nice, and that's due to still keeping the ball‑striking nice and basically improving my scrambling and putting. 

Q.   You played well in Chicago, basically got into the TOUR Championship, now you're set for all the majors.   You've been kind of a bubble man for four or five years when it comes to top 50 in the world.   Having that set, how much do you think that's made a difference for you this year? 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, it's great getting into the big ones, and I said to a few guys a few years back, I've been getting into almost like two out of four majors every year and not really getting the full experience of going right through every one of them, so that's probably why my performances in major championships haven't been quite as good.   Now that I've been getting more experiences I feel like my performances in the majors have been better and also the bigger events.   And then when you turn up to an event which is a regular PGA TOUR event, you feel better because you've competed at the highest levels with the major championships. 
I think that I need to continue to try and feel like I'm improving to stay there. 

Q.   Just curious, over the last bunch of years, John Senden's name, great ball striker, great ball striker, not a great putter.   Is that a fair assessment?   Do you feel that way? 
JOHN SENDEN:   No.

Q.   I'm going to say I'm curious why people pick guys and say they're not a great putter. 
JOHN SENDEN:   No, I'm a good putter.

Q.   Why do you have a reputation of‑‑
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, whatever you read on the stats is what it is.   You know, it's how difficult it is if you're the No.1 ball striker to be the best putter, unless you're shooting 65 every day. 

Q.   You've had some pretty decent finishes here.   Is this a place you come to thinking really good thoughts? 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, it is a good‑‑ I mean, it's a great golf course.   It's a golf course where it's major championship material, and I think this week is perfect because it sets up really well just like possibly a major championship could be run here right now.   I think that as the weekend progresses, I think the greens get harder and faster and they don't sprinkle the greens overnight.   Maybe on the weekend.   The golf course becomes different.   It becomes faster and firmer and you've got to hit different shots to get the ball close, rather this morning you could pretty much attack the greens with reasonable pin spots that were gettable. 
So as the week goes on, you feel like that you have to really be a bit smarter with your decisions and don't‑‑ some pins you can't go at because of difficult conditions and drier conditions, and that's perfect for major championship stuff, and that's why this golf course is‑‑ how it plays. 

Q.   What is your confidence level today compared with a year ago?
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, if it's a year ago, if it was 5.5 out of 10, it's about 8 right now.   I mean, my performances have been consistent.   I've been getting in there all the time and feeling good about that.   But you know, I feel like my game is improving, so I've always been a slow progresser over the years, and I feel that's good because when you do get to a certain level you know how you got there and then you can continue to hopefully stay there. 

Q.   Do you feel your best golf is still ahead of you and that you could be a player who's successful into his 40s? 
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, I try to‑‑ every day I try to improve, so whether I'm‑‑ my feelings and my thoughts and goals that I set, and if I can continue to do that, and I have been doing that, so I need to keep on that path, and that's how my thought process has been. 

Q.   How did you birdie 6?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, 4‑iron in to about four feet, four and a half feet. 

Q.   You've been doing this for such a long time.   How easy or difficult is it, especially when you have family and you're traveling, to stay fresh mentally year after year? 
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, I think you're exactly right.   When you have a family, you have your family that has full support.   And whether it's ‑‑ your No.1 fan, my No. 1 support is my wife Jackie, and she's been there since day one 20 years ago.   And then mom and dad, full support, my coach, and then you've got all the rest of the team that are behind you, my caddie.   Everyone is in full support.   Once you have that behind you, you can continue to try and set the goals and set the scene to feel like you're mentally prepared and you're physically prepared to do the job, and I feel like I've got that all in place and I feel that's why I've kept on going forward and still feeling fresh out here. 
I've been trying to improve the body with fitness, and I believe that's good enough right now.   I think that I just need to keep staying fit or get fitter because I feel like my mind is good enough to handle the PGA TOUR and be out here.   As long as I can set the goal to be out here another five, eight years, I'd be a happy man. 

Q.   How many years has Josh been with you?
JOHN SENDEN:   Nine.

Q.   How did you get together with him?
JOHN SENDEN:   He was originally caddying for Paul Gow back in 2001 and '02 actually, and I‑‑

Q.   Here?
JOHN SENDEN:   On the TOUR, yeah.   And Paul Gow missed his card at the end of 2002, and he basically said to me, look, I don't want Josh to come back out onto the Nationwide with me, not in a bad way, but just keeping him out there because of the financial situation, that sort of thing.   So I grabbed Josh, and it's been great since. 

Q.   I know it's another year away, but have you given any thought to what it's going to look like late in the fall of '13 when there's a change in the schedule?   Do you plan on going back to Australia to play?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, that'll change.   I'll have to wait and see what the schedule looks like and make my decision when that time comes around.

Q.   You like to go back to Australia, right?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, Australian Open, PGA.   It's nice. 
JOHN BUSH:   John, great start.   We appreciate you stopping by. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT