WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN SENDEN:   Felt good today.   I got off to a good start, I guess.   I had an easy hole on the first, where unfortunately Simon went on the right side there and it was a bit of a giveaway, and then I eagled the second hole.   So kind of 2 up after two and that kind of felt pretty good.   From there, I just kept the pressure on all day.   I felt like I was in control of my game and felt like, you know, I wasn't letting him up much at all.   If he made a good shot, I put it straight in there on him and got a couple of good saves that helped me along the way. 

Q.   To win 4 and 3, you really have to be putting pretty well?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I putted solid.   I think that my ball striking helped me.   I drove the ball well.   I didn't miss a fairway out there.   When I practiced out here yesterday, I sort of felt good about the way the holes shape and the condition of the golf course.   I just get in there and hit quality shots all day and play with freedom.   It happened today and I had the pressure on him all day. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
JOHN SENDEN:   This is probably the first match play win I've ever had as a professional.   I didn't do much when I was an amateur.   We went straight from school into an apprenticeship and then there was nothing. 
I played this event once and Sergio Garcia beat me.   So that was maybe four years ago, something like that.   I don't know, it was ‑‑ I was coming to this event thinking I'm playing well, but I wasn't sure what was going to happen because it's match play and it's different.   It's good for me because every hole is a new challenge.   You can stand up there and if you mess up that hole, you go to the next one, right? 
I was lucky enough to play well and met with a win

Q.   If you keep putting it close, it puts a lot pressure on?
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, keep it in play.   I mean, every other course we play is pretty much tree‑lined.   If you hit it left or right, you can have a shot.   Here it's desert and it's ‑‑ you have got nothing.   I don't care where it ends up, I think you would be very lucky to get a shot.   You don't need to brush up against this stuff and scratch yourself like crazy.   Come out with half your shirt or your pants hanging off. 
I think that you have got to drive the ball well.   There is some generous tee shots out here.   There are some holes on the back nine that you have got to hit some good shots:   10 and 11 and 15.   If you get that far, the 17 and 18 holes are good quality golf holes. 
Get out there and hopefully let it go again tomorrow.   I have got to do that.   I have got to keep playing with freedom. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, yeah, that's something that's new to me.   I have only got what I can do.   It would be nice to have more Australians winning this format, but I think that it's a nice feeling and I have just got to concentrate on what I have got to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT