BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2011
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You really fought back, showed a lot of fortitude, a lot of patience out there.   
 JOHN SENDEN: It was a tough day, yeah. The wind was blowing. Disappointing start to the day. But I just wanted to hang around. I knew even if I dropped a couple shots, as I did, early, I didn't really lose that much ground. I had a couple shots up my sleeve. I just knew that if I handled myself out there, I could fight back to whatever the score was, and I was able to go out there and do that, and I was proud of myself for coming back.  
  
  Q. What do you tell yourself after nine holes when you're plus 3?  
 JOHN SENDEN: I just think there's chances out there. The golf course is difficult, but the greens are soft enough to hit shots into. I was always taught never to give up and show resilience in tough times, so I think I went out there and just stayed patient was the number one thing. It's about hitting good golf shots, staying patient. I feel like I'm good enough to shoot a good score. The front nine is done, so let's start fresh, and I did that. I was happy.  
  
  Q. You showed a lot of moxie at 18. Longest drive of the day, put it in there within nine feet, rolled in the putt. That's a tough hole.   
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, it's a tough hole, probably the toughest on the golf course, playing a little into off the left with the breeze, and it's a good, challenging final hole. It produces great drama. To walk off there with a 3 was a bonus.  
  
  Q. Let's talk about what lies ahead for you tomorrow. There's a lot on the line, Presidents Cup, all sorts of things. Obviously you're thinking about winning this thing.   
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I've just got to go what I do best, and that's go play tomorrow. I feel like I'm playing well, so I feel like I'm going to go out there with the idea of shooting a good score because Justin Rose is in great control, and who knows what could happen. It's a funny game. Anything could happen Sunday afternoon.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 JOHN SENDEN: I don't know. Whether it takes the first couple of holes or the middle of the round or the last hole, it's a challenging golf course. I've got to play my game and can't control what he does.   
  
  Q. You make birdie on the last hole and you were 10th on the FedEx predictions, par you were 24th, bogey you were 33rd. Can you think about that stuff out there?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Can't do it. Just got to try and do what's best and play golf.   
  
  Q. How do you prioritize Presidents Cup, winning a tournament, making the TOUR Championship?   
 JOHN SENDEN: It would be huge. It would be one of the greatest achievements. Winning the golf tournament first would be a major success, and then to represent the International Team with Greg Norman as the captain, who we idolized as young guys, would be fantastic, and making it to Atlanta would be fabulous.  
  
  Q. You guys are always saying it's difficult to not think about what's going on around you. What will you think about tomorrow?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Probably thinking about not looking at leaderboards, I guess. But I think that it's a good, challenging golf course. I think that I need to do what's best for me, and that's play my game and not try to worry about what happens with the other players and just go out there and do my best. That's all I can do, and hopefully that's good enough.  
  
  Q. What does The Presidents Cup mean to an Australian when it's being played in Australia?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Well, it's amazing. It would be -- I'd be very proud to represent the International Team at that tournament. Royal Melbourne is now the No. 1 course. Melbourne is a fabulous place to play golf, and as an Australian it would be great to join Adam Scott and Jason Day on the team.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT