PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2011
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 2-under par 72, not the round you had desired, but you're not out of it.   
 JOHN SENDEN: No, not out of it. I think I saw Brendan Steele shot a low one which is right in the mix there now. I just need to get on a little run tomorrow and see what I can do and finish it off.  
  
  Q. Early birdie, straight into a share of the lead, how excited were you?  
 JOHN SENDEN: I tried to keep my cool out there but got off to a good start, birdied the first hole and I felt good on the front nine. You know, just a couple little mistakes there, one on 8 and the middle of the back nine just slowed me down a little bit. I think that I'm playing well and letting it go, so I just need to do the same tomorrow.  
  
  Q. This is a golf course where you seem to have to make a pretty good score through the first 14 holes and then hang on down the stretch, how advantageous do you think it would be to go out before the leaders?   
 JOHN SENDEN: The golf course doesn't give up too much early in the day because it's dry and the weather is quite clear all day. Maybe when the sun starts getting low and less traffic on the greens, I think you'll have more of a chance to hole a few more putts.   
 But I think it's difficult for everyone out there, and be patient, and go out there and do a good job and see what happens tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You had two eagle putts in a row and almost dropped them in; a big turning point for you?  
 JOHN SENDEN: It would have been. I didn't actually feel like I putted well today. Just I was close, but sometimes you just feel it, and didn't quite get the momentum I was looking for.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you'll be aggressive?  
 JOHN SENDEN: I think so. I think I need to get off to a good start, at least shoot something in the red tomorrow to put some pressure on the leaders. I think I'm going out with Adam Scott tomorrow, so that will be the Aussie flavor.   
  
  Q. Queensland this year has had a huge year sporting success-wise; Queensland due a major?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Maybe. Keep the ball rolling with the Queenslanders. Look, I'll have an enjoyable day with Scotty tomorrow, already had a practice round with him this week and feel comfortable with him already. Go out there, have some fun and hopefully play well.   
  
  Q. Still maintaining your free-wheeling attitude?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, got to let it go. Just basically get out there and you know, I'm striking the ball well. I just need to do the same on the greens. I mean, the greens are tough. They are fast bermudagreens, and you know, tough to read.   
 So if I can just get the ball rolling early in the round and get some confidence early, get up there and give it a go.   
  
  Q. Just how confident are you with your putting, given the fact that you really have done a lot of work you seem to be rolling that ball so steadily.  
 JOHN SENDEN: I'm putting well, yeah, last probably 12 months I've putted -- (audio interruption) -- played in the Fall Series last year, and I feel like it's changed a few things up with my alignment and getting easier on the greens. I think that I've been just really trying to focus on hitting a good putt on the line rather than trying to hole the putt so that's taken the pressure off and holing it and just hitting good putts all the time and just waiting for your confidence to build from that. .  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT