WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 2, 2015
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Two Australians, only one is advancing to the round of 16, but this man, John Senden.   How does someone get comfortable in match play format?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Well, it's quite difficult, I think.   I haven't had a lot of experience in match play.   I've been, you know, been out here a number of years, but only been on this tournament two or three times.   And there's other times have been hit and miss, as well.   
I think it's about sticking with your plan, staying aggressive.   Just go out there and do your own thing, try not to worry about what the other one is doing.   He just controls what he does, and I control what I do.   You've just got to battle on.   
   
 Q.   The guy you'll be facing in the round of 8 will be Gary Woodland, what do you think that match will be like?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Gary is a great player and he's playing some fantastic golf.   And I'm really going to enjoy myself with Gary this afternoon.   It should be a great match.  
   
 Q.   You and Hunter, it was going to be balls on the fairway, balls on the green.   That's the way you guys played.   It was a well‑played match.   Did you expect that coming in?  
JOHN SENDEN:   I knew Hunter was playing very well.   He showed that in the first three rounds, he's been playing fantastic golf for a number of years now.   And looking at his results over the past three days he's been cleaning everybody up.   I came out with my "A" game.   I didn't have my "A" game in the beginning, I wasn't driving it straight enough.  
Hunter was really in control most of the day.   And I found a few birdies in the middle of the round and kind of changed my momentum around 9, 10, 11.   So I think that that was a fun match to play.   And gives me good experience for competing this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   You making that putt on top of him at 8 was huge, to not go 3‑down.   And the par, when you are gifted a par, the only bogey in the match today.   That had to give you momentum going into 15?  
JOHN SENDEN:   Exactly.   We had a great match.   We both played well.   I thought we both scored well.   And it was a good feeling to know when another player is playing well and you beat them you're doing something right.   So it feels good.   
   
 Q.   You've got a good one this afternoon.   You're going to be playing first on most of the par‑4s.   You going to be able to‑‑  
JOHN SENDEN:   Exactly.   I played a fair bit of golf with Gary and he's playing very good golf.   We're going to have a fun match this afternoon.   It's going to be a really, really good challenge.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT