NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 18, 2011
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Not the finish you were looking for, but all told great position headed into the week?
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I feel well. Just hanging in there, and today was a little tougher than yesterday I thought with the conditions. The golf course, it was raining out there, but the golf course is actually softening up, which makes it sort of more target golf now, and possibly if we can stick the rain away tomorrow, it'll be -- I think the scores will be better on the weekend than what we had the first two days. Looking forward to the challenge. 

 Q. You mentioned yesterday you hadn't been playing particularly well coming in. Anything click this week in particular?
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I'm just trying to be a little bit more creative with my shots and enjoy myself out there better. I've been listening to a lot of the guys that have been doing really well in the last few events, guys that come to mind, the young guys like Steve Marino and D.A. Points and lots of other guys that have been playing well. They have been telling everyone that they've been really having fun, enjoying themselves, and not making it such a grind out there, and I think that that's somewhat -- I'm trying to take that attitude rather than make it a grind, trying to kick off the year. Everyone has got pressure on them to start the year off. 
 So thinking along those lines, the best way to get results is to enjoy what you do, so trying to do that better. 

 Q. You just missed that long birdie putt on the 1st, which would have been a little disappointing, but then you went birdie-birdie. 
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I felt good there. I didn't hit such a great tee shot off 1 but then left myself with quite a delicate little chip shot on the third shot on 1, and I basically had to play sort of almost a miracle shot to get it close, even though it was kind of looking like it was straightforward, very tilted green, but had a long putt there. And then I stuck it in there close on 2 and made a good putt on 3, so that set the day pretty well. Felt good about myself standing on 4 and 5 and played good shots coming all the way home.

 Q. The birdie chance was down the hill. Were you thinking, this is a chance to go to the lead? 
 JOHN SENDEN: I knew where I was. Obviously I didn't want to hit it as far past as I wanted to, but I wanted to sort of just not baby it down there. I mean, I probably tried to hit it two or three feet past, and with the way it was going, it was probably a lot quicker past the hole than it was to the hole. It wasn't a great putt, but you know, I've been putting well, and I'm taking that into the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT