JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 21, 2010
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN SENDEN: -- the last six weeks. Tonight it was a combination of hitting the ball well and knocking a few putts in.   
 This golf course, with the overnight rain, is pretty soft, allows for a lot of birdies I feel. Today was no exception to go out there and try to shoot low. You could see the numbers shot this morning. With no breeze, soft greens, a good recipe for low scores.   
 I went out there today and tried to stay patient. Got into the right places and ended up with a low one. It was a fun day.   
  
  Q. Hard to stay patient knowing that the conditions were going to yield a low score?   
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I mean, looking at scores today, if you're shooting 3, 4, 5-under par, you've shot a good score. To get it to 7, I feel like that's a pretty good round. I feel with the conditions out there, I was able to do that. Just get out there and feel it.  
  
  Q. Did you feel you were more aggressive than you normally would be?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Some hole locations we can, yeah. I mean, a couple of times the holes were cut quite close to the edges, especially on the front. We were unable to land the ball past the pin and spin it back. Normally I believe this course can get firm, so you can go out there and have to be really quite precise on a firmer golf course.   
  
  Q. Seemed like the guys who are in the lead, especially yourself, it's supposed to rain tonight, have to play a pristine course without a lot of marks on the greens, have a chance to build on the momentum from today?   
 JOHN SENDEN: Tomorrow's a new day. Today is gone. I'm going to get out after here on the putting green and focus on what's going on tomorrow. I can't do anything about today now. I have to work on what I do best. Try and go out there tomorrow and be patient and play my best I can.   
  
  Q. How big was it for you the way you ended today, three birdies on the last five holes?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, no, it was good. Those particular holes, 8 is probably a tough par 3, probably the toughest par 3 out there. 9 is a great chance for birdie. 8, the pin is back, but it's a short hole.   
 I mean, I believe there's probably I reckon half a dozen holes out here, you really feel like a good chance of birdie-ing them. You feel a little disappointed when you walk off with a par when you're hitting the ball well.   
 This golf course, if you're driving the ball well, you can shoot some low numbers. Short golf course. Put yourself in the right positions, you can do real well.   
  
  Q. Playing longer because of the wet conditions?   
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah. Also the ProAm yesterday, the air was a little bit heavier with the humidity so the ball doesn't travel as well as it does with the real thin air up here normally.   
 It's a bit cool, too, I believe. That means that the ball is not traveling as far. So you got to calculate all that.   
  
  Q. Did you change up some club selections?   
 JOHN SENDEN: No. We know how far the ball is going in regards to the feel for what we've done in practice and the ProAm. It's a matter of working all that out, trying to do your job.   
  
  Q. A lot of guys playing on a day like today are going to kick themselves if they played bogey. You played bogey-free golf. That has to be such a plus. How important was that today?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Pretty important on every day we play. But on this type of golf course, you'd be disappointed. If you had one bogey or maybe two, but any more than that, you're battling to shoot a low number. You're kind of playing catch-up golf by the end of the week if you have bogeys on your scorecards.   
 But, look, you can hit great shots anywhere in the world and walk off with a bogey. As I said before, the golf course is soft. Even if you do miss, you can pretty much get the ball close with soft greens.   
  
  Q. Got to be fun playing in these conditions.   
 JOHN SENDEN: A bit like the Bob Hope. Some of these tournaments are like that. This course is great like that because you can shoot low. It gives you confidence because you can actually shoot at the pins.   
 Walking off with a low score is good for your confidence because you can actually play U.S. Opens and even in Augusta, where you play really well there, and you know how tough the conditions are. Generally they're dry and firm, and it's tough to get the ball close. That's what major championships are about.   
 These types of events are a different setup. So it allows you to shoot birdies. That's what the TV people like to see and the fans. I mean, it's about going out there, shooting the low numbers and having fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT