ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2010
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 69 to go with that 67, 8 under par. Talk about just the conditions and how you had to play out there. Lot of wind and mud on the ball, what was it like?
 JOHN SENDEN: We started off thinking we were going to go out there pretty early, and a couple delays with the weather. 
 So I think the golf course played a lot softer than it was yesterday afternoon. And we had to adjust today. You had to make sure that you probably attack the golf course a bit better. 
 Yeah, you've just got to adjust to the wind. It's very windy out there and it is right now. 

 Q. Had a couple of chances on that finishing 9 for you, and you make an 8-footer on the last hole there?
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, yeah. I'm putting well, so that's the secret to shooting low scores, I think. I'm hitting the ball nicely, so I just need to focus on what I need to do to hang in there.

 Q. Finally, how do you approach it? You're going to get out late today, might get in nine holes, who knows. Then there is going to be all that golf to play tomorrow. How do you handle that? 
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, we've just got to get back in there now and just relax. I might go to the trailer and do some stretching to keep the body alive now for the afternoon. 
 So it's a long day. We've all got to put up with it. And I think I'll probably get an hour and a half golf in tonight and see what tomorrow brings. Tomorrow's supposed to be a nice day, so looking forward to the weekend.

 Q. How difficult were the conditions out there today? 
 JOHN SENDEN: It's pretty windy out there today. I think the golf course probably played one and a half shots more difficult than it did in round one. 
 Yeah, you have to adjust to that. It was very windy some holes played down breeze quite easy, other holes played difficult into the breeze. 
 The golf course is in great shape, and they handled the weather so well with all the rain. We've had at least three inches of rain yesterday. And I didn't hit any water on the fairways or near the greens. It's just a tribute to the grounds staff and people who run the tournament.

 Q. How confident and proud are you in the fact that not only is your game performing in tough conditions but mentally the things you've gone through in the last 24 with waiting and stopping and going? 
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, we've already had two stoppages today, so that's been difficult. But we've had to just hang about. Everyone's got to go through it. The whole situation of bad weather tournaments is to be to keep your mind fresh, relax when you can, and stay focused when you can, too. 
 I think it's a long week. I think tomorrow we've got a lot of golf to go, so it's going to be an interesting finish. 

 Q. Going back out there, how are you feeling fatigue-wise? 
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, we had an early start this morning, a 4:30 wake-up. It's a long day. We have to just stay fresh, I mean, just go down there and have a quick bite to eat. I might go to the trailer and do some stretches to keep the body alive and looking forward to round three. 

 Q. On a hole like 17 how does that play?
 JOHN SENDEN: Pretty good. Probably playing two clubs more difficult. And today I hit a 5-iron in there just short of the green. That's probably the normal yardage is probably a 6 or 7-iron.

 Q. Did it play a little easier today than normally or harder? 
 JOHN SENDEN: Both days were just as difficult. But yesterday was the back pin with less breeze, and today was a shorter pin with probably more breeze. 
 So you know, I hit a 4-iron yesterday and a 5-iron today. It was a much shorter yardage today. It's a tough finish. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT