TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2009
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. John, nicely done, almost effortless. You didn't have anything but tap-in pars it seems like all day when you weren't making birdies.   
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I felt good today. I hit the ball tee to green real well, and got off to a good start with a birdie on 12 and then birdie on 16 I think it was. You know, and it was a good day. I felt good playing.   
 It was a cold day. You had to work hard to stay dry and have a few little hand warmers, but it was a tough day for anyone out there. Wet golf course, but the golf course is in fabulous shape because even the wet weather has been holding up very nicely.  
  
  Q. This is your third straight year to come up here. You played very well here two years ago and pretty well last year. What is it you like about this whole ambiance?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, it's a nice course. I like the Fall Series on the PGA TOUR. It's a strong golf course, beautiful condition here, and the people that come out here to the golf course, they're friendly, and the sponsors and the surrounding supporters really do a good job with this tournament. That's why I like it here.  
  
  Q. Are you the least bit tired? Going through the playoff grind and all you had to go through, and we were standing next to each other in Chicago waiting to see if you were going to get in and all that, and playing in the TOUR Championship, are you at all worn out?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I feel like I've played a lot of golf. I just need to manage myself well enough through this week, and this is going to be my last tournament, and I'm looking forward to it. I mean, I have to be professional and do my best out here, and that's all we can ask for.  
  
  Q. You didn't get up this morning and say, gee whiz, I could be home a week earlier, it's just turning good springtime in Australia?   
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, it's nice weather at home, so you know what, do a good job this week, and it makes going home even more nice.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT