BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2009
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. John Senden, congratulations on your round.   
 JOHN SENDEN: Thank you very much. Enjoyed it.  
  
  Q. You made a 2 on a par-5 last week. Was that your first double eagle?  
 JOHN SENDEN: No, second one. First one was back in 1993 at a state open event, back in Queensland, back at home, and the very first hole in the tournament, 3-under through 1 I was. I managed to sneak one ahead at the end of the week, which was nice.   
 The double eagle last week at the Deutsche Bank tournament was pretty special. I actually didn't see the ball go in the hole, but when I saw the crowd go up, I thought, wow, that was fun to do that.  
  
  Q. Take us through your thought process over the last couple of weeks in these Playoffs. Obviously just in the third year of them. Have you gotten used to the whole concept of them?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Well, I think they've always tweaked the point systems in the Playoffs. We all knew that the first year wasn't enough movement, then last year was aggressive, so they're getting it right. I think the point system is a good thing. It's a good thing for the fans, and they get a taste of the whole playoff system finally this year.   
 Like every other sport in this country, most sports you've got playoff systems, so I think golf is unique, as well. I feel that it's a good thing for golf.   
  
  Q. Some guys have been in interesting positions this week, some of the guys coming in near 70th. Pretty much it was go for broke here this week. You come into the week 29th in the FedExCup points. You're just inside where you need to be. So it's almost just a regular week for you. What's your mindset coming in 29th?  
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I knew that I had to play really well this week to take the TOUR Championship, and that was a goal at the beginning of the year. But you know, right now I'm focusing on one more day. I have to, because if I start getting ahead of myself, anything can happen. You know, I'm feeling good about the game, so I just need to stay focused and have one more good day.   
  
  Q. As an Australian, of course Greg Norman, captain of the International Team. Were you at all surprised by the Adam Scott selection?  
 JOHN SENDEN: You know, Adam Scott is a fine player. I think that obviously this year hasn't been his best year, but I think that he is a fabulous player, and he's proved that, and I think that we need to look at the positives for Greg Norman. He's a great asset to the team, Adam Scott, and I think that he'll come up to speed when the tournament comes around.   
  
  Q. There weren't a whole lot of other players that he had to choose from.   
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I mean, Norman said it was a logical choice, but we all know how Adam Scott is playing right now, and you've got to feel for the other surrounding players that didn't get chosen. But I think that with Adam Scott's experience in major tournaments and Presidents Cups before, I think that it was a good choice for Norman to pick him.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT