DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2009
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN SENDEN: I wasn't expecting anything like that today, but on that particular hole I hit a driver and a 4-iron, landed about maybe ten yards on the green and rolled right in. It looked like to me it went over the hole. I didn't see it go in, but it looked like it was just going to roll to the back of the green or just over the back, and then when I saw the cheers go up I knew it was in the hole, so it was exciting. 
 Certainly I had a good round going at the time and it jump started me up the leaderboard.

 Q. Have you ever had a double eagle before?
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, one other time.

 Q. When was that?
 JOHN SENDEN: It was in a tournament back in Australia, like a state open event. So yeah, that was number two.

 Q. 64 really jumped you up that leaderboard. How do you feel about that?
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, important time in the Playoffs, so I'm feeling like I need to capitalize on the weekend to jump up, put me in good stead for the BMW next week, and one day at a time. 
 I'm feeling good about my game, and go out there and hopefully do the same job again tomorrow. You can't control the score, but you can almost control how you feel, so you need to go out there and do a good job.

 Q. What was the best part of your game besides making that double eagle?
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I drove the ball well. I haven't been hitting the greens enough the last couple weeks, and I need to keep up with my opportunities on the green and keep up with the solid putting. Today I drove it well and putted well, so I felt that, hence a good score.

 Q. Have you played with Leishman back in Australia?
 JOHN SENDEN: I have not played much golf with him, no, with Marc. But he looks like a promising young player, and he's good for Australian golf.

 Q. Did you take notice of his score today?
 JOHN SENDEN: I didn't see his particular round, but I saw that he shot 9-under. I actually had a practice round with him this week, too, and we had a good time in the practice round. It was his first time around here, so we had a good day. He's playing very nicely this year. 

 Q. 250-yard 4-iron, did you catch that flush or is that normally how far you hit that?
 JOHN SENDEN: It was hopping down breeze a little, and I probably would hit it normally around about 230, and because of the firm green it landed and rolled. You know, I hit the shot really well, probably went 5 or 10 percent further than it should have.

 Q. And then picking up the extra stroke or two from that hole really vaulted you beyond a lot of people into contention in these last two rounds. 
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, I think so. It's early days, so I've got to refocus for tomorrow and get into it tomorrow. 

 Q. When you made the double eagle what did the other players say to you?
 JOHN SENDEN: Everyone was excited. I was more listening to the fans screaming and yelling and hollering. You know, Scotty Verplank, he said, "great shot." I'm not sure he's seen one before. My caddie said that's the first time he's seen one before, so that's good. I had to work hard and try and control myself on the next hole and hit a good shot with all the emotions. So that was a good day.

 Q. How important do you evaluate top 10 and top 20 finish this week in terms of looking down the line at the TOUR Championship?
 JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, every shot is important. Every shot all year you need to work as hard as you can to finish up the leaderboard. Your goal every week is to try to win the golf tournament. I feel that I'm playing well enough, it's just a matter of keep playing well and getting the breaks and go out there and do the job. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT