TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 23, 2007
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  5-under par 67 in the final round, 15-under par, good tournament. 
 JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, I'm really pleased with the result.  You know, I've been getting some good results this year, and this week's just put the icing on the cake for the end of the year.  I didn't play so great in the FedExCup tournaments, but you know, to finish in the top five probably this week, and I was setting my goals to win the tournament. 
 But I was ever so close to getting into the Top-30 in the money and securing the major championships next year.  Looking forward to one more week at the Viking Classic next week, and then going home to play in some good Australian events, as well. 

 Q.  Here in the final round, you did exactly what you wanted to do.  You put six birdies up there, got it under par, and Steve Flesch would not cooperate. 
 JOHN SENDEN:  Steve's been playing well.  He obviously won at Reno.  He's playing fantastic golf.  To be 20-under par around this course, with the breeze up the last three days, is fantastic scoring.  You know, it's looking like he's going to take the title. 
 I'm happy with my result and I hope the next week I'll go a couple better. 

 Q.  Were you watching the scoreboard today when he started off bogey, bogey? 
 JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, I saw he bogeyed the first.  I thought, well, must be nerves I guess or a little bit shaky.  But he obviously settled in real well.  And, you know, there's a couple of nice holes on the front nine where you can score like the fifth hole and eighth hole two, reachable par 5s.  You can really sort of get the round started on the front nine pretty good.  And I mean, he's in a consolidating position right now, so he just needs to play smart and he'll be the winner. 
 I had it 6-under through 15 holes.  Poor swing on 16 which led to a bogey and I had a couple of good chances on 17, 18.  You know, realistically, I probably could have finished 7-under or maybe 8, but I think shooting 5-under on the final day, I'm happy with that.  That was a realistic goal start of the day, so I've got to take it. 

 Q.  What was mind-set going into today's final round? 
 JOHN SENDEN:  Mind-set was to realistically try and finish second, I guess.  Steve Flesch is like 19-under; I'm 10, I've got to shoot 10-under to probably try and catch him.  So that was my mind-set at the start of the day.  I had to, you know, realistically, 4-, 5-, 6-under par was a good score out here today I think, and I shot 5-under.  So I'm going to take that. 

 Q.  Is there a difference in the way the course feels, when the scores are 20-under as opposed to 3- or 4-under? 
 JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, you've got to stay aggressive when the conditions on the golf course are like it is because everyone is shooting birdies and it's a matter of being able to, you know, to keep moving forward rather than thinking that par is a good score.  Some holes it is -- the back nine stretch, especially with this breeze, 11, 12, 13, 14, is a big stretch of holes.  You need to play well on those to turn it around, because once you get to 16, you're playing down breeze and it's a little bit easier.  But yeah, you have to -- you know, it's a tough test out there. 

 Q.  Seemed like things flattened out score-wise today, as opposed to what was going on the first three rounds of the tournament, what was the difference just for the round today? 
 JOHN SENDEN:  I think the direction of the breeze is why the scores are not as good as the first three days.  I think that, you know, the pins are a little bit more tucked and they pushed that 11th tee back to the back tee and that was more difficult.  And hence, the scoring wasn't as good today because today has probably got the most amount of breeze. 
 So I think that that was the reason for the scores not going as low as they were the first couple of days. 

 Q.  With everybody saying this has been such a wonderful venue and event, for the first year, is there one thing you would change? 
 JOHN SENDEN:  What can you change?  Because the golf course is in fantastic shape; it can't get any better than it is.  You've got a lot of patrons come out.  It's always going to be difficult to get a good field because of the date, right.  Playing it right after the FedEx, all of the guys that finished Top-30 in the FedEx and TOUR Championship, they are all done for the year, basically. 
 You know, in between TOUR Championship and Presidents Cup, it's difficult for them to commit.  So that's one issue. 
 I mean, I think the players get looked after very well and you know, the hotel is fantastic.  I stayed in the Tower Hotel, and it's great.  No complaints anywhere.  I wouldn't say I've enjoyed this week.  My scoring has been good, so I think that you know, it's a matter of looking at the positives and improving the positives, because they have got a lot going for them.  I mean $6 million purse, you can't play for that anywhere at this time of the year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT