TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2007
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Two under par today, tell us about your day.   
 JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, off to a slow start today.  I bogeyed 11, second hole of the day.  I was running through the 16th hole, and it was the 7th hole, and had a real nice putt for birdie on the 16, probably about 15 feet.  Kind of turned that around for me.   
 I feel like I wasn't as accurate off the tee today as I was yesterday.  Kind of put a little bit of pressure on the shots to the greens.  But, my front nine which was my back nine today, I felt that I turned it around nicely.  I played solid enough to hit good enough iron shots to get close to the flags and good chances.  So shooting 2 under today I was happy with shooting a nice, slow day.   
  
  Q.  Did you find the pins tougher today than yesterday?   
 JOHN SENDEN:  There were a few tougher ones.  Bit more tough to the edges.  Few short pins today which were more difficult.  But, you know, on 18 today was up on a little ridge, so that's more difficult today.   
 Yeah, no, the golf course is blowing the opposite direction today, so I think this is a more difficult breeze for the golf course.  I think you're still going to see good scores, but I think the finishing holes are more difficult.  Puts more pressure coming down the stretch.   
  
  Q.  Speaking of finishing holes, what do you think of 18?  It seems like a hole that's yielded eagles.  But also it's seen its fair share of bogies today?   
 JOHN SENDEN:  I think it's quite a generous golf hole until you reach the green.  I think the green is a difficult green, it's shallow from front to back with plenty of slope.  Kind of different from the rest of the greens on the golf course.  And, you know, it's not over towards the 18 hole, because you know, the green is more difficult.   
  
  Q.  All right.  Talk about 2 under par today?   
 JOHN SENDEN:  I'm excited the position I'm in.  Looking forward to the weekend.  I played well on the PGA, and that's given me good experience to hang around for a week.  And I'm really concentrating on the process of my game.   
 You know, I can only worry about what John Senden does, and not worry about what the other players are doing.  I look forward to really playing well and getting in a good shot.   
  
  Q.  As always, thanks for your time.  Good luck on the weekend.   
 JOHN SENDEN:  Thanks very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT