CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 6, 2006
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  Alright.  We welcome John Senden who posted a 2 under 70 in round 2 of the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro.  Sits at 8 under for the tournament.

John, a little rough going out there today.  Little both    you guys avoided most of the rain, I think, but got a little bit of the wind.
JOHN SENDEN:  Sure.  Yeah.  You know, it was a day    I guess this morning's players caught the rain and the wind and the cold, dark conditions teeing off in the first groups, but I thought the weather was pretty consistent throughout the day.

You know, it got a little more blustery towards the end of the day.  When we teed off it was windy and cool.  It wasn't near as cold as it was at the end of the day.  So it was, you know, tough coming home but I thought, you know, windy for everyone.
TODD BUDNICK:  You got off to a good start with two birdies in your first five holes.  That kind of got you rolling.  Couldn't muster much the rest of the way.
JOHN SENDEN:  No.  You know, as I said before, the wind got more and more as the day went on so more difficult to get it close to the flag and, you know, I thought that I played really nicely, you know, I was    I didn't get a whole lot of putts coming down the stretch but it was, you know, nice to sort of hang around the lead and don't    I was fourth overnight and I've improved that position today and I'm happy.
TODD BUDNICK:  It's been a career year for you.  You picked up your first win earlier at the John Deere Classic.  You've got a master career high in Top 10s with three so far.  Talk a little about the season for you.
JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, being my best year obviously with the win and, you know, more and more Top 25s is another iron as well.

So, you know, I set the goals back when I first got on Tour to win on Tour and, you know, now is the time that I can    resetting my goals again for the Tour Championship and I mean I'm running 40th at the moment and I need some really high results to make it and, you know, I'm feeling good about it so I need to just keep on working hard and, you know, those goals are right there, they're realistic and I feel like I can do it.

You know, it's a matter of keep doing the work and believing and letting it go.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions.

Q    Play is pretty good.  Is that because of the greens being soft or other reasons?
JOHN SENDEN:  Even it was windy today, it's not as if the greens were unplayable in regards to the firmness of them in the afternoon.  The rain helped overnight but, yeah, if you hit good shots to these    with any sort of breezes you can    if it lands somewhat near the flag you can get it close.

So it's not totally impossible out there and there's a lot of par 5s, you know, the 9th possibly wasn't playing    probably playing the hardest but the No. 2 and number on the back 9 hole, No. 13, it was    you can reach those holes even with the wind so I mean the scoring opportunity is out there still.

Q    John, you're having your best year.  Do you get noticed a little bit more by the general public or you still pretty much under the radar or what's your take on that?
JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, a little bit more you get noticed.  You get calls from    not phone calls but you get calls from the crowd saying, "Come on, John", or, you know, whatever but more and moreso now than I was, say, last year at this time but definitely makes you feel good and, you know, you definitely sort of get noticed a lot more by the players, respected by the players and everyone has been fantastic about that.

Every time you walk past a player after that John Deere it was    you know, it was fantastic.  It was a great feeling saying well done on the win.  That's a feather in the cap.  That was one of my goals, and makes you feel good.

Q    John, how long does it take when you get out on a course to get adjusted, especially from yesterday such a drastic change to today?  How long does it take to get a feel for the fairways and the greens?
JOHN SENDEN:  Not too long, you know.  It's a matter of, you know, preparing properly when you are warming up, like on the range you might hit some lower shots or you might try and either work with the wind or try and work against the wind.

You know, I've had four years experience in Europe so we get some of this weather over there moreso than, you know, than here but I think in America they get more extreme weather.

If there's a thunderstorm, you have delays.  In Europe it's more this type of day with wind and rain but no real threatening weather.  That's more common but I think that with that experience, that's helped me a lot.

And in regards to your question preparing properly on the range and just feeling like, you know, you got to hit the correct trajectory on shots on the course and to control the wind and, you know, and have a good attitude out there because, you know, it's a difficult day and you got to be able to deal with every condition you can if you want to win the tournament.

Q    Can you talk a little bit about how there's so many birdies out there to be had yesterday and now you kind of have to be a little bit more patient?

Can you talk a little bit about that mentally, going out there today where you know you're not going to have birdie opportunities every hole?
JOHN SENDEN:  That's right.  You know that the golf course is playing more difficult today with the conditions.  It's a matter of    you got to work a little bit harder on, you know, where to leave and where to not leave the golf ball because of the more difficult conditions and that's the outlook I take out there and, you know, it's more difficult.

You can just tell by the weather, you know.  I mean that's just the way I feel about it.  You know, going out there and, just as I said to you before, controlling the trajectory of your shots is how to work around those different situations and that's how I feel when I prepare and work on a day like today.

Q    Do you consider yourself a good wind player?
JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, I feel that because, you know, my swing, I feel like I trap the more ball, hitting it lower, say, take one extra club and hit the ball lower and control the flight.

You know, my swing creates a lot of spin on the ball so if you can get a lot of spin with the downward shots or even into the wind shots you can control the distance on the shots easier.  So I feel good.

Q    Weather is going to be like this over the weekend.  You be happy about that?
JOHN SENDEN:  I think so, yeah.  It sort of makes the scoring be out of control.  The scoring will still be good I think because, you know, the greens are reasonably soft and the ball is rolling well on the greens.

I think I'm going to have to go out there and play just as well as I did today if not better to, you know, to be in the hunt on the weekend.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through I remember birdies and bogey.  13 and 14.
JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, 13 was birdie.  I hit two three woods.  3 wood off the tee and 3 wood to the green just short and chipped it up to about maybe three feet.

14 was driver and a 6 iron to maybe five feet, and the second was a driver and a 6 iron just short, just off the green, only like three foot off the green.  Putted it from off the green to about four, five inches.

And then No. 6 was a driver and a 5 iron just short and tried to putt it off the green and left myself with about probably a 15 foot putt for par and missed it on the low side.

So, yeah, then parred all the way in.  There were some good opportunities on the front 9 for me to finish better today but, you know, I feel like my game was solid enough today I'm happy with my score.
TODD BUDNICK:  Alright.  Thank you, John.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT