JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2006
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN SENDEN:  You know, it's fine.  I'm feeling fine at the moment.
Q.  Yourself and from what you see from other guys, how often do guys, when the conditions are like this, do they go to the Tour trailer and check in and just make sure that everything is good before they play or after a round?
JOHN SENDEN:  Well, that's right.  Most of the guys    well, not most of the guys, but a few of the guys go in there and see the physiotherapists, the chiropractors just to get checked out and see where they are physically.

There's a lot of players now that have personal trainers.  We have one ourselves.  There's a group of guys, probably four or five Australians, that use our trainer from Australia.  You know, getting on a routine with physical work, stretching, flexibility is very important with golf, so we need to address that every single year.  I've done it for the last four years, and now that I'm getting    I'm 35 years old, so it's like, boy, I've had a good run, there hasn't been many injuries, but looking forward, I'm trying to keep feelings of flexibility and workout, trying to get there.
Q.  How was the course playing today?
JOHN SENDEN:  I hit the ball well again today, didn't quite get the putts that I did yesterday.  Shooting 2 under was I felt like a good score, not a fantastic score, but no damage, really, with the way I felt, only dropping one stroke from the lead.  I think I feel happy with my position for the weekend.
Q.  Tee to green as good as yesterday, just didn't convert?
JOHN SENDEN:  Exactly, and also didn't quite get it as close today as I did yesterday, and with the scoring today, I felt that    playing in the morning, obviously the greens are a little bit better, a little more receptive.  This afternoon, I'm not sure whether it rained last night    did it rain at all?
Q.  No, they watered a lot.
JOHN SENDEN:  Exactly.  I felt like the greens were maybe a pinch slower today than they were yesterday.  But then again, the greens were smoother yesterday morning, so the ball possibly was rolling out better.  I felt like I left a few short, and I think that tomorrow will be the same.

I'm playing in one of the final groups, so it'll be    you know, the greens won't be as smooth as what I experienced yesterday morning, so everyone has got to deal with that, so we'll have to go out there and see what happens.
Q.  You've got to be happy with your position going into the weekend, though?
JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, as I said before, I'm looking forward to it because today I shot 69, didn't play fantastic, but didn't do much damage.  One shot from the lead after yesterday, so I'm going to have to play well on the weekend to be right around there again.
Q.  How was the heat in your opinion?
JOHN SENDEN:  What happened with Michelle?  I have no idea.  All I heard was dehydration.
Q.  How was the heat in your opinion today?
JOHN SENDEN:  I was fine.  I was keeping up with the water and stuff.  It's hot for everybody.  Some of the spots, low spots and high spots on the course where you might get a little bit of breeze, it feels better, and when you sort of stand there in the sun and there's not much breeze, you're kind of reaching for the towel to try and keep your hands dry and face dry and stuff, but I felt fine all day.
Q.  Qualitatively, what do you think you're going to have to do differently tomorrow, anything, maybe a little bit more aggressiveness?
JOHN SENDEN:  No, I'm hitting the ball tee to green solidly, and yesterday I putted very well, and today I didn't quite get the putts.  I'm not saying that it was bad, but I was thinking that tomorrow I just need to play solid again from tee to green and be patient with this particular golf course.  There's a lot of birdie chances out here, and I just need to be professional and have a good attitude and let it go.
Q.  Is there anything in particular after you got it to 10, the two bogeys, or just a couple missed putts?
JOHN SENDEN:  No, on 15 I actually hit it just to the right of the fairway but I had no shot to the green.  I was stuck behind a tree and I just had to chip it out, had no shot.  There's no way I could really advance it to the green because it would have been a dangerous play.

But it was a soft bogey on 16; I actually hit a 9 iron to like maybe, I don't know, 14 feet, and I hit a really good first putt, it just missed on the low side but it had a bit of pace on it, so it didn't actually finish    missed it on the low side coming back.  I had sort of a longer chance for my par.

A couple soft bogeys, but then turned it around nicely on 17, which was good.  Yeah, so it was a good day.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT