BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 21, 2006
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH:  Thanks for calling in, 5-under 67 and a 20-under for the tournament, another great round for you today.

If we can get some comments, please.  How did the round go for you?
JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, it was pretty good.  I teed off at the 10th tee today, and obviously it's another glorious day here, so, you know, feeling good with the game.  I've been driving it really well and just putting solid.  I had a lot of chances today as well, and the ones that did get close, I got them in and there was opportunities out there, as well.  I feel good about my game and it was a good day overall.
JOHN BUSH:  I see you took advantage of the par 5s, you birdied three of those today, if you can take us through your card, starting with the birdie on 13.
JOHN SENDEN:  Yes, driver and a 3-wood and I was just short left of the hole.  I just missed it just left of the green pin-high, chipped it on from maybe I guess it was probably a 30-yard chip shot and tapped in about a seven-foot putt.

18, I actually was just short for two, I was in the front trap and the ball was actually buried.  I hit a driver and a 4-iron and it just didn't make the distance and went in the front trap, and then I exploded it out to about 20 feet and missed that.

On the first hole, drove it just in the left rough and just sort of punched a 3-iron down there about I guess 60 yards, 70 yards short of the green and chipped it up to two feet.

The other hole was the 8th hole, driver and a 4-iron in the front trap and then up-and-down, made it from the bunker and then made like a one-foot putt for birdie.
Q.  You shot 67 today, you started the day four back, you're four back now.  Do you feel like you did what you needed to do over there to stay in contact or did you want to get closer?
JOHN SENDEN:  I think so.  You know, anywhere within probably six shots of the lead I think you have a chance because you can shoot low.  The Classic Club is a different style golf course, too.  It's a lot longer, and if it's a little breezier tomorrow, if you shoot a low number, you can really, really do some damage.

I think being this close to Chad, I feel like I'm in a good position.  I'm not far from the lead, really looking forward to tomorrow and driving it well and putting solid.  So, you know, hopefully get out there tomorrow and keep on doing the same work and make myself feel good out there and just go out and play my game.
Q.  You birdied your last two holes, how important was that?
JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah, pretty important, you know, because Chad was on 23, and I knew that he was going to score -- I looked at the leaderboard on the second to the last holes, and just getting that little bit closer to Chad.  He seems to have had quite a good hold of the lead there the last two or three days.  I'm thinking, you know, someone needs to go out there and put a bit of pressure on him.  He may be thinking about what happened last week and he wants to really try hard to get it done this week.

You know, being this close is important because, you know, you just put that little bit of added pressure on him and it will be interesting tomorrow.
Q.  Obviously you played very well here last year, you're playing well again this week, is it something other than the weather that suits you in this area?
JOHN SENDEN:  Well, I've just come off three good events in Australia, as well.  We went down for like nine weeks and we played three events at home which was the Australian Open, the Australian PGA and the Australian Masters.  We were -- I finished runner-up at the Australian Open against Robert Allenby -- well, Robert Allenby won all three events, and then I finished sixth at the Australian PGA and fourth at the Australian Masters.  So I felt like I was in good form at home.

And I'm working on the same issues while I'm out here.  So I'm looking forward to keep that good run continuing throughout this year.
Q.  And what are those issues you're working on?
JOHN SENDEN:  Oh, just a bit more trust and belief and relaxation out here on the Tour.  It's like there's obviously issues going on with myself, being a good player but never really getting it done.  I feel like I need to just be able to believe in myself better and go out there full of trust and play my game, cut out the distractions and do that and try to get to the next level that way.
JOHN BUSH:  Real quick, can you take me through that last hole, No. 9.
JOHN SENDEN:  No. 9 was a driver and a wedge from about 105 yards, and knocked it in maybe about seven-, eight-foot putt.
JOHN BUSH:  Thanks for calling in, John, play well tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT