VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 22, 2005
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Okay, John, very solid round today, ends up with 63, which is one off the lead, 12 of 14 fairways and 17 of 18 greens.  That's pretty good.
JOHN SENDEN:  Yeah.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Just a couple thoughts about how you played today.
JOHN SENDEN:  I've been working pretty hard on trying to work on more relaxation with my game.  A few weeks back I had my coach over, his name is Ian Triggs, but anyway, we went through a whole lot of stuff, went through a little bit of technical training, softening up a little bit on my backswing, but basically my own mental belief to try and get the job done.  I've put a lot of good scores together throughout the year, but I feel like I've possibly been letting myself down with a couple of 73s and 74s and stuff like that.  Overall that's what I've been working hard on.

But in regards to my day, today it really clicked.  I felt good.  I had a goal throughout this week to be    to see how relaxed we can be playing and clear minded, clear shots, and let it go.  That was the difference.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Probably the highlight of the day was your eagle at 14.  Talk about that.
JOHN SENDEN:  Well, coming off being 4 under at the time, I was feeling good.  You know, I did a good job on 12 and 13 and feeling good on that hole.  It's a great opportunity, that hole, really.  You hit a good drive down there and you can    it's quite a large green to hit, so you've just got to be smart at that hole, and it's a birdie hole basically.  But a nice drive down there just on the right side of the green, on the fairway, hit a nice 5 iron in to about probably eight, nine foot, and rolled it in from there.

You know, that really sort of built the confidence for the rest of the round, as well.  I tried to shoot a real low number, and then I managed to pick up one on the last hole, which was a bonus.
Q.  What did you do at 18?
JOHN SENDEN:  I hit a drive just in the right rough and a 9 iron that nearly went into the hole.  It was basically this far behind the hole (indicating one foot).  It was a nice way to finish.  It's always nice to have tap in birdies.  I enjoyed the round.
Q.  That was at 18 or 9?
JOHN SENDEN:  18th hole.
Q.  Did this feel    you said you've been working on a lot of things with your coach and getting the mental aspect.  Did it feel kind of like overall kind of coming together out there at some point?
JOHN SENDEN:  It did, yeah.  Like I said before, I've been putting in a lot of low scores but mixing it up with a little bit of a couple of high ones.  Like last week at 84 Lumber I shot 65, which is 6 under, on day two, and that day I felt that relaxation again, and I went out there and played, and that seems to be a nice key for me, to go out and play    to go out there and let it go a little bit without trying so hard to get the job done, as they say.

It's a matter of looking at this day and how it feels and try to work on that for the future.
Q.  Is there something you do pre round to kind of get in the zone or whatever, or some mental exercises?
JOHN SENDEN:  We work pretty hard together, my coach, and we've been sort of working out the mental aspects and trying to get little keys to try and work out what works best, and I feel like what I've been doing in practice, I have to take that to the golf course because just that little bit of difference in relaxation and practice, you know, to practice that and take it to the real day, I feel like I'm starting to get better.
Q.  Now, you live in Dallas?
JOHN SENDEN:  We're living in Flower Mound, which is Dallas, North Dallas.
Q.  Now, your coach is back in Australia?
JOHN SENDEN:  He's back in Australia.  He makes about four or five trips a year.  He works with    I'm the only player here on this Tour that he looks at, and he's got one other player, Brad Kennedy, in Europe, and he works with Rachel Hetherington and Karrie Webb on the LPGA, so he's got another couple girls on the LPGA, so he meshes in to see everyone when he makes his trips over.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  That's all, short and sweet.  Good playing.  Good luck tomorrow.
JOHN SENDEN:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT