THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2014
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round. 
JOHN SENDEN:   I felt good today.   I warmed up really well, better than I did yesterday.   I knew that the leaders were pretty well out there, Jordan Spieth and Martin Kaymer, obviously world class players, so they're going to play well here.   I think that both of those guys got confidence, so you have to go out there and they're not just going to give you a PLAYERS championship, they're going to ‑‑ you have to go out there and earn it. 
Hopefully, today was a good stepping stone and tomorrow just need to stay where I'm at with my feelings and set the challenge and believe that I can do it.

Q.   A nice eagle there on 9.   Talk about that. 
JOHN SENDEN:   I hit a really nice drive down there with about maybe 240, 250 to the hole.   I really wanted to just, obviously, try and get on the green, but I left myself on the right side to get a chance at the pin. 
When I was looking at the chip shot I was actually just feeling like, how am I going to keep this on the green, because it was very dry and then downhill and then up to the hole. 
So I ended up just landing it right on the bottom of the slope, so that was a nice bounce and then it rolled up forward and lucky the pin was there, it hit it square on.   So happy with a 3. 

Q.   Run us through, obviously, how much the last sort of six weeks, eight weeks having the win and everything has helped you coming into positions like this.   You found yourself now at the Masters and here in these great spots all the time now.   So it's obviously been a real big step for you. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I think so.   I think that if I rewind, as we spoke about a couple years ago, when I was feeling really good about my game, I felt like I was as good as I am right now.   But last year wasn't so great because of a few niggling injuries, but the last probably since the beginning of the year, I've been feeling really good, even back in Australia where I finished third.   From that point on I had some inner confidence and belief, it lit me with confidence that I got from the Australian Open that I could kick off the year pretty well.   I was playing nicely. 
But I think that the Valspar Championship was an event where I had good results there before, and a couple second places, so I knew I was going well there.   But I think the added belief is the biggest step for me, being able to know that I can stand on the stage and accept it and belong there. 
So I'm getting better at it, but I think that that takes a lot of sort of determination and belief.   So that's what's been the difference, I think, over the last probably three or four months that I've thought that, you know what, there's still fuel in the tank, and don't let it, don't keep it in there, just go for it.   That takes just an added bit more belief in what I'm trying to do. 

Q.   You got another chance again tomorrow.   You set yourself up for it. 
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, this is what we practice for.   So if you can't get excited about this, well you can't get excited about anything.   So I just need to crack down and do my work, play like I know how to play, rather than watching the leaderboards.   You got to be aware of where you are in the tournament, but be aware of your feelings and control what you have to do to play well. 
You can't control who else plays well, but you can certainly control how I kind of want to feel.   So make those decisions well and then go out there and enjoy it and believe. 

Q.   They all count the same, but given your position have you given any thought back to the Thursday penalty?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, that was unfortunate, but that's golf.   I had no control over that ball moving with me.   I did address the ball, I swung back and then the ball moved as I hit it in.   That's unfortunate, my putt was only like about a foot long, but the whole thing about that is, is that I didn't address it until after the round and I just wanted to make sure that in my own heart that I was doing the right thing for the game of golf and myself and that's to be honest and it's no worse feeling than sleeping at night with that guilty feeling. 
So I think that I would never do that, I made sure that I addressed it, and I cleared it up and I keep on with the game. 
I can't think about that coming down the stretch tomorrow at all. 

Q.   How aggressively do you play tomorrow, being five or six back?
JOHN SENDEN:   As I said before, I'll go out there and play my game and if that's good enough, well that's great. 

Q.   Australians have had some success here, is it a lot to do with the conditions in Australia, with the weather, the type of grass, the wind?
JOHN SENDEN:   Yeah, I think these golf courses get pretty dry and firm, so our golf courses in Australia are a bit like that.   We have got some great players that have won this tournament from Australia, so there's no, it's no reason why more Australians can't win here because of the conditions, because it's hot and dry and dusty and fast, so that's how we grow up.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT