INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 1, 2002
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN V.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, John, for joining us for a few minutes.  Great round for someone who is playing in this tournament for the first time.  Why don't you make a couple comments about your round; then we'll go into questions.
JOHN SENDEN: Well, quite cool, windy, probably affected our group because we teed up on the last group in the morning for about nine holes.  And then when we made the turn it was just a beautiful day.  Last nine holes.  Just went out there and played my game.  I have been working hard with my coach at home and going over a few details and really happy with the round. 

Q.   You finished 15th last week.  Was that the turning point for you?
JOHN SENDEN: I have been playing  -- I started to turn it around pretty well at the Western Open at Cog Hill.  I played that tournament and I played well at Memphis the week before.  I have had a good run at this stage.  I went over to Scotland to play Loch Lomond and the British Open.  I missed both the cuts there but I still felt like I was playing decent.  Also the last six weeks have been good so I have been happy.  Last week I played fantastic and it could have gone either way.  Could have been a couple putts either way and I could have been right there.  But taking that through to this week, it's been good. 

Q.   A lot of people make Ernie Els came here long time ago nobody really knew who he was.  Look now where he's gone.  Do you feel this a tournament where you can make a name of yourself  --
JOHN SENDEN: It's one of those things that when you come here for the first time it's all new obviously, so now I have been trying to sort of work hard in trying to believe in myself better to handle the situation better too.  It's been a time of you know, I have been stroking the ball well and feeling good about my game but just need to take that next step to handle all the different conditions on the PGA TOUR and this being my first year, every week is going to be different because every week is a new week, counting on that, I think I am working hard to try and handle it well. 

Q.   Does this course remind you of any other course you have ever played on because everybody that comes here always say they are in awe  of --
JOHN SENDEN: You got courses around the area that are  -- well, there's not many similar like this one because it's up in the altitude, you have got pretty views.  The pine trees, I think make a good setting.  Every hole looks very different, so it's quite unique.  And the condition of the course is fantastic, so can't ask for much better than that.
The greens are very firm.  Well, some greens are a little bit firmer than others, but that's similar to the Australian conditions as well, you have got courses in Melbourne where you have got firm conditions and you have got to really  -- (inaudible) like last week at the John Deere, it was very much target golf all the time.  Where here, you have got firm greens, you have got to really think about where you want to land and stop the ball because it is a little bit more difficult because it's quicker and firmer. 

Q.   What brought you here?
JOHN SENDEN: Well, this is my first year on the Tour, so basically trying to play all the events coming on now, and everyone was bragging about this area, and it is a beautiful place to play golf and the weather is fantastic, the people are great, so it's good to be here.

Q.   Difficult adjustment to the altitude and scoring system?
JOHN SENDEN: Not so much the scoring system because you are still playing  -- still trying to score the best you can, and you have obviously got to make sure you don't have those double bogeys in there, but I mean, with the other conditions and the other scoring (inaudible) I am happy.

Q.   Tell us a little bit about yourself growing up and learning the game.   Did you grow up on a kangaroo farm?
JOHN SENDEN: No, my wife did.  No, anyway, I started playing golf when I was about 11 years old, town of Brisbane.  Basically my coach Ian Treeks (phonetic), he got me into playing golf.   Went out there and caddied for my dad a couple of times.  And I played golf all the way obviously through school and then when I'd come out of school I did an apprenticeship which is what we have in Australia, three-year course, you go under a head professional in a shop.  It's  very similar to a college system, we get paid by a head pro.  And I come out of that when I was 21.  And I have played the local state Tours when I was home in Australia.  Then I stepped onto the Asian Tour which was from like '93 to through to about '96.  And then 1997 I went to the European Tour qualifying and got onto European Tour and played through to Europe for four years and then last year actually went to the U.S. tour qualifying in the end of '96, so I thought I will go to Europe and end of 1997.  So I played Europe four years and then went to the -- went through all three stages of qualifying in the U.S. and got through and so far so good.

Q.   Why did you decide to give U.S. qualifying School another shot?
JOHN SENDEN: Well, I felt that having the four years experience in Europe I was a better player for that.  And being I was, you know, had better experience, and just feel better about my game so then I could feel once I stepped onto the PGA TOUR now, I could handle it a lot better because if I felt in '90, '96 if I got my card then, I would still feel I could honestly say that I probably wouldn't have handled it as well as I am now.  So it was a good step to go back to Europe and have a go out there and it worked out well.

Q.   Has it been a struggle adjusting to this Tour?
JOHN SENDEN: The tournaments are run very similar to European Tour, as well as Australia, but it great dealing with the world-class players here and you know, I went and qualified for the British Open the other week and having all the American players there as well, it wasn't such and overawing aspect to step onto the tournament and play the way it is, having the experience here now, so working hard on handling those situations. 

Q.   You watched Greg Norman, Steve Elkington, Stuart Appleby?
JOHN SENDEN: Oh yeah, I don't have a great deal to do with Norman, but you I know him a little bit.  But I have played a couple of games of golf with him but obviously look up to that guy and think, wow, he's the best Australian player that's ever been and on a world stage as well, boy, if he can match his performance you  are going to be all right.  Also Peter Sr. Has also given me a lot of advice as well on the Tour, especially in Europe, and in growing up because it wasn't until three years ago that he (inaudible) my coach as well.  So having the same coach he could  -- we practiced together and learned things together, and he was a good friend and good to be with. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT