BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 18, 2002
John Senden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We have John Senden, one of our current co-leaders in the clubhouse.  Round of 69, 3-under par, is minus 18 for the tournament at 198. 
You started on the backside, want to start with your birdies and bogeys.
JOHN SENDEN: Yeah, the back 9.  I had a two 3-putts. One on No. 17, and also a 3-putt on the par-5  -- No. -- Is it No. 4, that was a par, as well ?
And then bogey on -- actually three 3-putts on the back nine.  And also the par-4, No. -- must be -- after the par-3, 14 or 15, maybe? 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  15.

JOHN SENDEN: My ball was actually on the front of the green, but I had to putt it off the green to make it to the flag, and it sort of rolled through the rough and didn't make it down to the hole, so I missed my par putt. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You made eagle on No. 1 today.
JOHN SENDEN: Made eagle on 1, driver and a 7-iron to about maybe five, six feet.  And then made that. 
And then birdie on No. 3.  That was a driver, 9-iron to about maybe 12 feet. 
And then birdie on the par-5, the next hole, which was No. 4.  That was driver and a 5-iron to about possibly 25 feet and 2-putt.
And then pars all the rest of the way in. 

Q.  Right now you're still tied for the lead.  Are you kind of surprised that you could shoot 69 and still hold on to part of the lead?
JOHN SENDEN: Well, yeah, I was thinking with the scores that the guys have shot the first couple of days, I'm thinking that you've got to really shoot, like, possibly 67 or 66 to retain the lead, and I shot a 69.  It's a good score, but it's still right there, so I'm happy.

Q.  I'm sure you approach the round the same as the others, but knowing you were in the lead, did it feel any different the third day of the tournament out there today?
JOHN SENDEN: No, it didn't.  It's a tournament, I feel, with four different golf courses, you have to take each day differently.  It's a new style, it's a new day, and you have to go out and play your own game.  And the feeling is like it's a tournament where you've got to start every day fresh, and go out and play your best golf. 
It's a little different way of playing a tournament.  But I'm happy with the format.

Q.  How do you approach the weekend, now?  You're obviously going to be near the lead or in the lead going into the final couple of days.
JOHN SENDEN: I think that I'm not going to do anything different than what I've done the last three days, and go out there and worry about what I'm doing, not worry about what any of the other players are doing. 
So obviously you've got to be conscious of what score you're on.  If it comes down the stretch and you're close, you've got to know where you stand.  You've got to worry about what you do in your own game, because you can't control what the other guys are doing.  So obviously go out there and just play your best golf and worry about what you're doing, yourself.

Q.  Are you enjoying this, being in the lead, feeling any pressure at all or just having a good time?
JOHN SENDEN: No, it's -- as I said before, the format is more relaxing than any other tournament we play on on the tour.  I've only played two events, but I've watched a lot of golf on TV, and know most of the courses from that, and also -- but I mean, going out there and feeling -- going out there and preparing the same way with every event, and every day, and go out there and play your best golf.

Q.  I know there's not much in the way of conditions, but was the course playing any differently today than the other two?
JOHN SENDEN: No, actually the conditions are very, very good.  Obviously the elements with the wind -- there was no wind to speak of really today.  But the conditions of the course are very, very nice.  The speed of the greens are very close together.  It's a good set up for scoring around this course.  All the courses, actually.

Q.  Have you spoken with anybody, either instructor or family or friends, and gotten any comment or feedback from your great start this week?
JOHN SENDEN: I've only contacted a few of my friends through email and stuff, and I've received a fair amount of those.  And they're saying keep it going, keep it going.  I'm getting plenty of support from home.  And even though I haven't talked to them much at home, I believe they're always there and know they're all supporting me.  It's good to have that behind me.

Q.  You said you felt that the format made it more relaxing for you?
JOHN SENDEN: Yes.

Q.  Can you elaborate on that, what makes this more relaxing from any other tournament or format?
JOHN SENDEN: I think the format, it's like -- you can probably talk to amateurs a lot easier than your fellow professionals, because you're doing your job at the tournament and they're kind of relaxing and just playing their own game, as well. 
So the feeling that it's more relaxing is going out there and just talking to them and getting to know those people, asking them questions and all that stuff.  And you don't usually -- sometimes I don't usually do that when you're playing with fellow professionals, because you basically know them from previous tournaments or you go out there and you can just meet new people.  And it's good to chat and find out what everyone is like. 
And I've really enjoyed the amateurs playing with me. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Appreciate you hanging out with us and good luck the rest of the week.
JOHN SENDEN: Thanks a lot, hopefully we'll be talking again tomorrow. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT