MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 14, 2019
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Back-to-back Top 10s.  
TIFFANY JOH: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  That is awesome.  
TIFFANY JOH: Yes.   
 Q.  What's been key to your game last couple weeks?  
TIFFANY JOH: I think I just got a lot of confidence from last week and that kind of carried over into this week.  I was joking around with Zack Maybank, my caddie - I don't know if you know him - but joking around with him that a lot of the -- a lot of players almost have to be talked out of really aggressive shots because they're like almost overconfident.   
I've always been the opposite.  I've always wanted to take the more conservative round.  There were a few times last week where he was like, It's okay, Tiff, you got this shot, kind of talked me up.  So I think confidence-wise I just got on a roll and just have been riding it.   
 Q.  Huge.  So going into the week, registered for the British Open qualifier.  
TIFFANY JOH: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Was that what kind of pushed and motivated you this week?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, it was a little bit of a bummer that the cut off was before Green Bay, because I think if it was after we would've been in.   
For me, I wasn't putting any extra pressure on the week.  It was kind of more like, Hey, if we have a good week, then we'll play ten weeks in a row instead of like eight weeks and a break.   
So I wasn't really adding any extra pressure.  But, I mean, I was going to tell him after the round that if we didn't get in through this tournament that I wasn't planning on trying to Monday qualify, just because by that time I think we'll have played eight or nine weeks straight.   
I was actually planning an epic surf trip to like the west coast of Ireland and Portugal, and I was actually Googling and sending in like -- trying to get quotes and stuff for all the surf retreats in Portugal last night at 2:00 in the morning.   
So I don't know.  It's like kind of a win-win, I guess.   
 Q.  Yeah.  Yeah, I guess.  So what does this do?  How does this help your momentum going into the team event and then Evian and the British?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I'm really stoked.  I think next week Jane and I are just going to have a bunch of fun.  If we play great, then great.  If not, at the very least we're going to get to have hung out with each other.  I never get paired with her and I never get to play that much golf with her.   
For me, like anything else is going to be like just a big ole bonus, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT