ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 26, 2018
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  9-under, not bad.  Four-shot lead.  How would you sum that up?  
TIFFANY JOH: I pretty much kept it in play and putted amazing.  That's the only way I could describe it today.  I didn't feel like I hit it particularly well but I feel like I just missed it in the right places and just got a hot putter.   
 Q.  Your short game coach is in town and it was working pretty nicely, indeed.  Would he have been impressed with what he saw out there?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I think he snuck up there on the last hole or so, just in time for me to make that birdie.  Yeah, we worked a lot on just like visiualisation.  I realised -- well, he made me realize that I was getting really wrapped up in my stroke and things that were, you know, happening right in front of me instead of being more athletic and kind of reacting to a target.   
He saw that he was really losing my interest.  So he started throwing in some surfing metaphors and he was like:  Who is your favourite surfer, watch what their eyes were doing.  That's kind of what I was trying to do out there.   
 Q.  Have you found any surfing spots?  Have you found any around here?  
TIFFANY JOH: I've been doing a little research and I heard that there's a place called Pease Bay that might be pretty decent.  I have a little magic sea wad app and it tells me the nearest surf breaks and if there's any surf forecasted.  Today and tomorrow it didn't look like there was anything very good, but it looked like this weekend there might be a little swell in the water.  I might be out there off of 11 tee just trying to shred some gnar.   
 Q.  You've had probably the best of the conditions in some ways today.  It's changed all the time, the wind's come up, down.  This weekend it's going to get pretty epic from what I hear, even for Scotland.  What are your thoughts about that?  Does that bother you at all?  
TIFFANY JOH: I think you can't come over here to Scotland and not get a little bit of wind and weather.  That would almost be a little bit of a letdown.  My caddie, it's his first time to Scotland and pretty much anything that happened, he had a big grin on his face.  Whether it was a bad kick or a good kick, and he'd just look at me and be like, links, like he's just loving it.  I think that's the key, having a good attitude and just kind of relishing the conditions.   
 Q.  What is your short game coach's name?  
TIFFANY JOH: Gareth Raflewski.  He's actually Irish who lives in Canada.  An Irishman who lives in Canada.  He works with a whole slew of players.   
 Q.  Four shots clear of the field, is that one of the best rounds of your career?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I would say it's probably the best round, but it's links.  You just never know.  Things can happen at the tip of a cap.  It's kind of like, it's nice to have but at this point, probably doesn't mean very much.   
 Q.  Have you heard the other side of the coin, where things have gone against you on a links course and you take the good with the bad?  
TIFFANY JOH: Absolutely.  I think the people that tend to play better on links courses are the ones that have the best attitudes.  The ones that go out there and regardless of what happens, they just kind of look at it like, this is links golf.  This is what you get.   
 Q.  You had a good run of birdies on the back nine.  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I think I had like four birdies in a row.   
 Q.  Was that the putter?  What sort of putts did you hole?  
TIFFANY JOH: I have a really bad memory but one of them was like about 60 feet and then on the next hole, I think I made like a 48-footer.  So two back-to-back putts that you're just kind of happy to get down in two that you end up getting away with one.   
 Q.  Your form coming in here, it wasn't the best.  
TIFFANY JOH: Whenever I'm trying to describe my year to my friends back home, I basically say, I've played pretty consistent but just not consistently well.  I would say I've probably made more cuts this year than I have any other year but I haven't had any like really bright finishes.  So yeah, I mean, I think one week can change everything, so that's the great thing about golf I guess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT