KIA CLASSIC
March 20, 2018
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's it like being back on home turf and being able to play in your backyard?
TIFFANY JOH: First of all, I love San Diego.  It's like the best place to grow up and the hardest place to leave.  It's just great to be back here.
It's funny, as I was driving from Phoenix and I'm like crossing the border and going through Yuma, it's almost like I just feel a little bit more relaxed.  I just like love Southern California; I love everything about it.  This is like the best week of the year for me.
Q. Awesome.  So you had a pretty tough year.  Playing, not being able to play, overcoming cancer.  What did you learn and what do you hope to share from your story?
TIFFANY JOH: Well, it's interesting, because I think right afterwards, my first tournament back last year was Phoenix.
You always think you'll come back from that and you're going to have this amazing perspective and you're going to be the Buddha of golf. (Laughter.)
You get out there, and the first shot you miss-hit you kind of slam down your club.  If you're competitive, you're competitive, and there's nothing that os going to change.
I still think at the of the end of the day what we're doing is great and it's such a privilege, you know, but we're not exactly out there curing cancer.  I think it just puts things into perspective, for sure.
I think it just gives you such an appreciation for what you get to do.
Q. Was it a year you weren't playing?
TIFFANY JOH: No, no, no.  I only took like the first two or three tournaments of the year off.
Yeah.
Q. Were you kind of just dying to get back to playing golf or getting back out there?
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, for sure.  When everything happened it was kind of the end of the off-season so I was already kind of itching to play anyway.
Yeah, that was a little difficult, to not get to play.  Australian Open is one of my favorite events, too, so was it really hard not playing that event.
And the Bahamas.
So I think when I look back at last year and how grueling the schedule was and how long the season was, I mean, by the time CME was over I was like, Man, that was a good thing that I took those tournaments off, otherwise I would've been so pooped by the end of the year.
Q. Totally.  So what's been your treatment now?  Do you have to go back for checkups?
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, so every year I go back for checkups.  I actually just went for one right before Arizona, and then I got the call actually after the third round that everything was all clear.
So we're all good, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT