BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2018
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Okay.  The hole in one, tell us about it.
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, honestly, was just a really solid 5-iron.  I mean, ironically, yesterday on the same hole I shanked a 7-iron almost into the desert and made an unbelievable up and down for par.
Yeah, today was a little bit of a different story.  It's amazing what a difference one day makes.
Q. Did you see the ball go in?
TIFFANY JOH: I did.  I have awful sight so I saw it disappear.  Sometimes when that happens it's like over the green or something.  But Jane has really good eyesight so that helped.
Q. What was the celebration like, especially playing with Jane?
TIFFANY JOH: I think first I ran and tackled Jane, then I high-fived like every single person walking onto the green.
Q. How many have you had?
TIFFANY JOH: This is number eight or nine.  I don't know if you count the one I made at Petco Park, but I count it.  So eight slash nine.
Q. What about the rest of your day out there?
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, it was just a really solid day.  I love playing with Jane.  She's one of my best friends.  She plays fast and she's very easygoing and makes you laugh during the round.  She's kind of like the ideal playing partner.
I think I wasn't really even thinking about the scores.  It was just being out here with her.  We were joking around that -- we made the turn and she was like, This is so sad.  We only have nine holes left.
Any time you get to play with one of your best friends it's a pretty special moment.
Q. You've put yourself right at the top of the leaderboard.  Couple people still to play today, but how are you feeling heading into Sunday?
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, you know, like I can't imagine the score will hold up because the course is very, very scorable right now and the greens are so pure.  If you just get 'em rolling you can make everything.
It's nice to get in a good round.  I'm hoping I don't have too late of a tee time because I do have to drive back home tomorrow.  Any time you put yourself in position it's pretty special.
Q. Three days playing in the wind.  Enough to make you think out here, at least today again.
TIFFANY JOH: I try not to think.  I just make my caddie do all the thinking.  He just tells me what to do.  This is like the worst holiday to be making a hole in one on.  You'll go broke buying everyone green beers.
Q. What about them buying you beers?
TIFFANY JOH: I like that, or In and Out milkshakes.  I'm okay with that, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT