MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 20, 2017
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Round 1, finishing right up there towards the top.  What was really clicking do you feel for you today?  
TIFFANY JOH: Well, I did stay at a Holiday Inn Express last night, so...sorry.  I was hitting the ball really well, and I wasn't making a ton of putts, but I think the greens are pretty tricky, so I don't think a lot of girls are out there just making buckets.  Yeah, I think mostly it was consistent ball-striking.   
 Q.  Megan Khang just kind of talked about the greens were a little different than maybe she expected because of the rain last night.  Is that what you're kind of referring to?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, it's funny, it's almost like the greens actually -- I think the rain helped a little bit because historically the greens are pretty soft here and they're really receptive, and when we showed up on Monday, it was actually a lot firmer than what we're used to, so that was kind of an adjustment.  Yeah, I think the more rounds you play on it, the more you're seeing it.  Yeah, I actually think the rain kind of helped a little bit.   
 Q.  You have to be pretty confident heading into tomorrow after a round like today, especially given the course changes that have happened since the last time.  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I'll tell you what, I'm a really big fan of what they've done with 18.  It's actually a lot shorter, but it's actually a lot tougher, I think, because you really can't -- you can't really go for it almost because there's this huge swale in the back and it's actually a really difficult shot from back there.  It's almost like a shorter hole that you almost have a forced lay-up, so there's a lot more thinking involved, which I really like.   
 Q.  Things that you're going to take into tomorrow?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I don't know.  I think pretty much the same thing.  I'll definitely kind of grind a little bit on the putting green right now, but I mean, as far as the ball-striking goes, I can't really complain, so I'll just try to take that into tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT