THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 8, 2017
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seven-year player out here, and you had it going today.  A lot of low scores on this golf course.  What was going on for you personally out there as you were making six, seven birdies?  
TIFFANY JOH: You know, to be completely honest, I was not hitting it particularly well, but I was putting really well, and apparently that counts for something in golf.  Yeah, you know, I was able to squeak a solid round in there.   
 Q.  You're pretty low key, chill by nature.  How does the environment change for you mentally as you're working your way up the leaderboard?  How do you deal with it?  
TIFFANY JOH: You know, I'm one of those people that as I get a little nervous and under the gun, I actually play a little bit quicker, so I actually try to make it like a goal of mine to almost move a little bit in slow motion, so out on the golf course I was trying to sit down a lot and doing what I could to slow myself down.   
 Q.  Obviously your story this year is unique.  You went through a real bad scare with melanoma.  How has that experience maybe helped you be more patient and accepting of things in general?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, you know, I told everyone at the Kia Classic, I felt like my attitude and my perspective was like 100 percent better because of my experience, but then again, I was in my first round, and the first bad shot I hit, I still like slammed down my club.  You know, when you're competitive, you're competitive, and you can't really hide it.  But I really do think that it's given me a better perspective on things.  At the end of the day, you're really just chasing a ball around a field, and things could be a lot worse, so it's something that I definitely take with me everywhere I go.   
 Q.  Talk about jumping back into this thing today.  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, you know, honestly, I'm probably one of the first few groups to finish, and I know there's going to be a lot of low scores out there, so I don't think that I'm going to be at the top of the leaderboard or super close to the top of the leaderboard by the time the day is over, but I'm really happy with how I played, and I think it puts me in good position going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  Was there anyway the course was more scorable today than it was the first two days?  
TIFFANY JOH: Probably the same.  If anything, I thought it played a little more difficult today.  The wind was definitely pretty shifty, and we had a little bit of trouble like pickling clubs and trying to figure out what the wind was doing, so I definitely don't think it played easier by any means.   
 Q.  Is it weird playing in threes and off both tees on the weekend?  
TIFFANY JOH: I don't know, I kind of like playing in threes.  Sometimes twosomes can get kind of awkward, so it's kind of nice to have the buffer there just in case.  Three people can really keep a conversation going.  Two, it's hit or miss.   
 Q.  Even with you out there?  
TIFFANY JOH: Well, I actually count as like four personalities, so you're right, it was actually more like a sixsome.   
 Q.  What would it mean to win the tournament tomorrow?  
TIFFANY JOH: Oh, man, I'm trying to not even think about that.  I think golf is one of those things where it really comes down to like the last six holes on Sunday, so if you can put yourself in position at that point, like that's all you can really ask for, and from then on, it's really just luck of the draw.  So I feel like I picked up a few pieces of trash, and I really upped my karma points, so we'll see.   
 Q.  You were a big mover today.  What felt different for you today?  
TIFFANY JOH: Honestly, I didn't hit the ball particularly well, probably worse than I hit it the last couple days, but I was just putting it really well, so that helps.   
 Q.  You're one of the great personalities out here.  You're a YouTube sensation; how special would it be to be known for something on the golf course?  
TIFFANY JOH: I mean, that would be really great.  I think last week there were a couple people that walked past my group and kept yelling, "The floor is lava."   
I think as long as I can get away from that, because that gets really hard sometimes on the golf course there's just not a lot of things you can stand on.  Yeah, I mean, it would be great, but I love being a YouTube sensation.  My parents are really proud (laughing).  Yeah, it would mean a lot.   
 Q.  Do you get nervous out there?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I definitely do.  I think everyone does, and I think if you're not getting nervous, you don't care enough.  But yeah, I do my best to try and calm down by like sitting down a lot.  I also drink like four cups of coffee every morning, so that doesn't help.  But yeah, I try to keep myself relaxed, but everyone gets nervous.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT