KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 19, 2016
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice round.  
TIFFANY JOH: Thank you.   
 Q.  Bogey-free, right?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah.   
 Q.  How tough were conditions out there?  
TIFFANY JOH: It wasn't -- I think -- I don't think the conditions themselves are that difficult.  I think the course is just playing a little longer because it's so wet.  Like some of the pin positions were really tricky, but I don't think -- like it's not really windy out there.  It hasn't started raining yet.   
 Q.  We looked at the record here.  You haven't had a great record here.  What were your expectations coming into the week?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I was actually talking to my host dad yesterday because I stay off of like hole 7 or something here on the course, and with the big stretch coming up, this was probably going to be the one I was going to take off just because I've never played well here, but honestly, I was like, yeah, but every year I go there and my host gets me this banana bread that's really good.  That was honestly the deciding factor.   
 Q.  The banana bread?  
TIFFANY JOH: It was the banana bread, and this year they gave me three loaves.  Regardless of what happened today, it was a win.   
 Q.  So it's the power of the banana bread this week?  
TIFFANY JOH: Pretty much.   
 Q.  What's the name of your host family?  
TIFFANY JOH: Armstrongs.   
 Q.  You birdied 7, 9 and 10?  
TIFFANY JOH: Oh, I don't know.  Yeah, that sounds right.  7, 9, 10.  Wow.   
 Q.  Can you describe those holes?  
TIFFANY JOH: I can.  No. 7 was a par-5.  I just laid up, hit it to like nine week from like 34 yards, and made that.   
On No. 9 I had a pretty short club in.  I think I had like a wedge in and hit it to eight feet.   
All of my birdies were inside 10 feet.  I didn't really make any putts.  I've always struggled to read these greens, and today was no exception.  I just felt like I hit it really well, so I got away with not making as many putts.   
 Q.  Your past results here notwithstanding, you did have a tie for 11th earlier this season.  Do you feel more confident than you have in a while?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah.  I think I feel a lot better about my ball-striking this year than I have.  I started doing some yoga in the off-season, so I feel like I gained like at least two and a half yards.   
 Q.  Such a huge difference, right?  
TIFFANY JOH: Maybe three.  We can round up.   
 Q.  What time did you have to get up today?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, like I usually wake up at 5:00 regardless because I like to do a little dawn patrol surf session.  Here not so much.  The beach is kind of far away, and I check the waves anyway and it's flat, so I can't do that.  But yeah, I'm typically a morning person.  I'm kind of an all-the-time person; let's be honest.   
 Q.  I saw the surfboard.  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I was just like paddling and trying to get over a set wave, and if it's going to break on you, you do a turtle roll so you flip over and let it break like over you.   
 Q.  Yeah, of course you do.  
TIFFANY JOH: And it must have just hit like perfectly.   
 Q.  When did that happen?  
TIFFANY JOH: Maybe six days ago, five days ago.  But it's okay, I have like two other boards, so it's fine.   
 Q.  And it looked like a pretty enjoyable, friendly group today; you guys were yukking it up walking up 18.  
TIFFANY JOH: Yukking it up, yes, that's exactly how it was.  Well, I've never played with them before, so I guess SooBin and Grace are like best friends, so it was funny because there were a couple times they were walking down the cart path with their hand over each other's shoulder and I totally felt like the third wheel.  At one point I think I just kind of scooted in between them, like did anyone ask for a little Joh Rio filling?   
 Q.  What worked today that hopefully you're going to keep going?  
TIFFANY JOH: Pretty much just ball-striking, which is funny because I honestly did not even take my clubs out of the travel cover last week.  Like there was a peanut butter sandwich in there from like the second round of Prattville in there.   
 Q.  What color was the bread?  
TIFFANY JOH: I mean, it was still brown.   
 Q.  Was it really?  
TIFFANY JOH: It was very brown.   
 Q.  Different shade brown?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, it was not like a delicious brown, not that there's a delicious.  I don't know where I was going with that.  So sorry.   
 Q.  So ball-striking?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah.   
 Q.  Now, would any Tiffany Joh interview be complete without a question about when your next video is?  
TIFFANY JOH: I don't know.  I feel like nowadays, though, it's all about like the 14-second Instagram video.  No one has the attention span to watch an entire two-minute YouTube clip.  I did a little hard core video in the physio trailer.  Did you see that?   
 Q.  I did see that.  That was like a jungle gym type thing?  
TIFFANY JOH: Well, do you ever watch "The Office"?   
 Q.  Yes.  
TIFFANY JOH: There's one episode where they're like, "Hardcore Parkour," where they're like leap-frogging over each other and then Dwight goes over to the refrigerator and opens it and closes it.   
 Q.  So that was you and the physio?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah.   
 Q.  That was your warm-up?  
TIFFANY JOH: Athleticism right there.  I was moving so slow, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT