JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 19, 2015
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We are joined about Tiffany Joh after a 6‑under round today, got off to a really hot start.   What was the key to that? 
TIFFANY JOH:   I think mostly just ball‑striking.   This course, if you hit the ball solid, then you could leave yourself a lot of birdie opportunities. 
So yeah, I think that's pretty much it.   I didn't actually make a ton of putts.   I just kind of hit it close a lot and just tried to stay patient. 

Q.   How was the delay this morning and how did you keep yourself mentally into it? 
TIFFANY JOH:   Well, luckily, I got the update for the delay before I left.   I was actually driving out of my host family's house in desert mountain and right when I got the e‑mail alert, I just popped a U‑y and went back straight to bed.   Didn't affect me at all.   I was fortunate to have the last morning tee time so ended up being just like an afternoon tee time.

Q.   Are you better in the afternoons? 
TIFFANY JOH:   Definitely more caffeinated.   But other than that, I don't think there's a big difference. 

Q.   How much of an advantage was that for you to be in that last group to where you had not left for the course?   I know talking to Kim Kaufman earlier, she had to get up at 4:30?
TIFFANY JOH:   Yeah, it was really nice, I went back, got an extra two hours of sleep and watched an episode of Hawai'i‑Five‑O.   It was a really productive morning. 

Q.   How comfortable are you in this position, and I know it's early but how much do you think about winning a Tour event? 
TIFFANY JOH:   To be honest, not comfortable at all.   But honestly, you're right, it's only the first day and not even all the players have finished their rounds.   And especially with conditions as good as they are right now, I can see this being kind of a horse race. 
So honestly, I just try not to think about it. 
THE MODERATOR:   What's your approach going into something like that to where you won't see all the final scores until the first round, and you're going to have to go out pretty late tomorrow, only get a couple holes in probably.
TIFFANY JOH:   Yeah, I think you just‑‑ I'm a big believer in the hit the ball, go find it mantra.   And sometimes like today, it's just a little bit easier to find. 
So I honestly don't even think about it at all and when I leave the golf course, I leave it at the golf course.   That just means more time tomorrow to go catch a mat any or something. 
The MODERATOR:   Do you have any plans for tomorrow?   How do you deal with situations like this where you have a lot of time before you're going to have to get to the course? 
TIFFANY JOH:   I mean, I'm staying with a great host family and I've stayed with them the last four years, so I'm totally comfortable just hanging out with them all morning. 
Yeah, I mean, nothing different.   Just go out and do the same thing you do every day. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT