THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 7, 2019
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tiffany, just talk about how the week finished for you.
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, you know, I'm really happy.  If you had told me at the beginning of the week I would've gotten like a top 10 I would have been happy about it.
Yeah, I mean, there is no regrets.  I'm really happy about how I did.
Q. Just didn't look like you could get anything going until really will last five maybe.
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, and didn't help that Shanshan was out there throwing darts, you know.  But, yeah, sometimes you just have days like that where it's just really slow, but you got to stay patient.
I consider 16 through 18 the toughest holes on this golf course and I ended up birdieing in.  I can't complain.
Q. And about Shanshan, I mean, 16 and then again on 18 with the pressure on.
TIFFANY JOH: She is such a phenomenal player and one of the best ball strikers on our tour.  Beginning of the day I told Zach, We're definitely going to witness some great golf today.
I don't know if it's going to be from us, but we're definitely going to witness some great golf; and we did.
Q. Does a course like this require a different kind of patience?
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, you know, on the front nine I think I made one birdie and eight pars and I felt like I was getting a little bit lapped.  Then I looked up at the scoreboard and confirmed I was getting lapped.
Yeah, you got to get out there.  You can't do stupid things because you're getting upset.  I think more so on a course like this when you can potentially birdie like nine, ten holes in a row, it's especially important to be patient.
Q. For you, what does it say about your game going into the next couple tournaments?  How much more confident are you in your style of play?
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, you know, I've never really considered myself like a very good ball-striker, and especially off the tee.  I've struggled with my tee shots a lot.
This week we hit our driver amazing.  Going into next week, Toledo, a pretty tight course and requires a lot accuracy off the tee, I'm feeling really confident and I'm excited.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT