PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
May 24, 2013
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right.   We're here with Tiffany Joe at the PureSilk Bahamas LPGA Classic.   4‑under par today on the 12‑hole layout.   So that means you shot 41 in the first round.  
TIFFANY JOH:   Which is like a not‑so‑good front nine.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your round.   Obviously some challenges this week with the golf course, trying to make the best of a tough situation.   How did it go for you out there?  
TIFFANY JOH:   Yeah.   You know, last night I was thinking ‑‑ I think when they told us we were playing 12 holes today, in my mind I like took it as six, so 12 holes actually isn't that much shorter than 18.   I mean I think before you tee off you're like should I eat something, I mean I'm going to be back in 12 holes or should I go to the bathroom, like I can hold it for 12 holes, maybe not 18.  
But yeah, it was a little bit of a challenge, but I mean other than that, the scoring conditions are perfect, like the fairways are great and the greens are rolling really well.   So I wouldn't be surprised to see like a 9, 10‑under at some point today.  
   
 Q.   You're one of the more adventurous players on tour maybe we would say.   Have you done anything exciting this week here with some of the downtime you've had?  
TIFFANY JOH:   Well, we actually went snorkeling in the cove right from the hotel.   It was me, Jane Park, Christina Kim and Mo Martin, and they gave us these little sticks which have fish food in them, but those fish are extremely aggressive.   One of them gets a little taste and they all just start swarming you and you can actually feel them touch you and everything.   I think it's the first time I ever saw Jane park actually try to climb Christina Kim.   It was extremely awkward.   I think she almost drowned her.   But other than that, I've been keeping it low key, lazy river, just a little snorkeling here and there.  
   
 Q.   On that note we'll go back to golf.   Just talk about how tough is it to wrap your mind around the fact that you're probably going to play 12 holes a day in a golf tournament?   Does that change now that you've had a good round?   Normally you'd be thinking about your next 18.   Is there any kind of mental exercises you're having to put yourself through?  
TIFFANY JOH:   I think you just have to be overly patient out there.   I think it's really easy to be out there and miss a short birdie putt and think that you need to start forcing them because you feel like you've already played 10 percent of the holes after the first hole.   But honestly I think the person that plays the best out here is not only the one that gets off to a hot start, but also the one that's able to stay patient.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT