NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 18, 2011
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 12-under, second in the tournament. Tell me about your day.   
 TIFFANY JOH: It was actually slow at first. And then, I mean, I don't know what happened, but on the back nine I had four consecutive birdies just one after another.   
 It was funny, because when my putt went in on 15 I actually got like goosebumps and everyone started cheering. So it was pretty cool, but at the same time, there was really no stopping Lexi today.  
  
  Q. Tell me about her game. You played with her.  
 TIFFANY JOH: I mean, she is most known for like how long she hits it and how far she flies it, but I think she doesn't get enough credit for how smart she played today and how good her iron shots are and how good she is at scrambling.   
 There were a couple unlucky bounces she got today, and she didn't hit as many greens as I am sure she's been hitting the last three days. She scrambled so well and made some really key putts.   
 I think she should definitely get more credit for the other parts of her game that are great as well.  
  
  Q. But your reaction to finishing second in this tournament.   
 TIFFANY JOH: I mean, it was funny, because when I first got here I looked at the course and I was like, I don't think this fits my game at all. I don't hit it very long and, you know, I'm not too much of a ball-striker.   
 But, you know, for some reason, things just really worked out this week for me, and I'm thrilled with how I finished.  
  
  Q. When you pulled to within three, are you thinking, I could really make a dogfight of this?  
 TIFFANY JOH: Um, I was trying not think about it just because at the Canadian Open I went into the final round tied for the lead and I kind of scoreboard watched all day and didn't work out very well for me.   
 So today I was just like, Go out there and try to put as solid a round together as you can and don't get caught up in everything else.  
 I wasn't thinking too much about where I was.  
  
  Q. What kind of player were you at 16 years old?  
 TIFFANY JOH: Um, not very good. (Laughing.) I think at 16 I was just learning how to match my golf clothes. (Laughter.) I'm not going to say I was very good.  
  
  Q. What's the world coming to with a 16 year old winning a tournament?  
 TIFFANY JOH: If it's Lexi, she's not your normal 16 year old, so, you know, I'll gratefully just take a back seat to that.   
  
  Q. The week started slow for and you ended with a bang. You've got to be happy with that?  
 TIFFANY JOH: Oh, yeah, absolutely. I think it was a great experience to play in the final group. To watch Lexi play was incredibly humbling. We had a great week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT