NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 17, 2011
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Heck of a round.   
 TIFFANY JOH: Thanks.  
  
  Q. Minus 7 today. That's incredible. Tell me about your round.   
 TIFFANY JOH: It was funny, because it was really up and down in my front nine. I think I didn't make a single par in like my first five or six holes. I started off with two birdies and then made a quick bogey after that and then made another birdie and then made another bogey.   
 So it was a little up and down, but I had probably like nine birdies overall today. So the two bogeys that I left out there kind of hurt a little bit, but at the same time, I'll take my round.  
  
  Q. Absolutely. You have somebody at minus 15 now, but the next person is at minus 10; you're at minus 8 now. Tell me about tomorrow. Do you got a shot? What are you going to do differently?  
 TIFFANY JOH: I don't think I'm going to do anything different. Just keep going out there with the same mindset I had today, which is not really setting any expectations for myself. Yesterday I had a pretty solid round going, and I was 4 over my last (indiscernible) holes.   
 So I learned my lesson there and I know not to get caught up in the future. So now I'm just going to have fun and go out there and see what happens.  
  
  Q. If you golf tomorrow like you did today, who knows what'll happen.   
 TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, we'll see.   
  
  Q. Today with a fabulous round of 65. Nine birdies and two bogeys. What was the key to the success today?   
 TIFFANY JOH: I think it was just comfort. I got to play with a former teammate of mine, Maria Jose Uribe. Also got play with Sophie Gustafson, who was super nice the entire round. I think it was just a matter of being comfortable out there.   
  
  Q. You said there was a little bit of an awkward moment playing with Sophie today. Explain.   
 TIFFANY JOH: Well, I had actually never met her before, but I put her in the first video, the She Beats It one, and I had a quick flash of her hitting a shot and then I tried to make her name rhyme, so I actually called her serve and Sophie Gustafsan [sic.]   
 So today on the tee box was the first time I had met her. She had obviously seen the video, too, so we kind of had a little awkward meeting from the get-go.  
  
  Q. How did you conceptualize these videos?  
 TIFFANY JOH: I don't know. I think it's just I tend to -- when I sing along to songs, I tend to get all the words wrong anyway and just end up making up my own. So I think that's just kind of how it happened.  
  
  Q. What kind of feedback have you been getting fellow pros?  
 TIFFANY JOH: Um, I think it's a mixture of weird, awkward looks if they've been in the video and obviously don't know me and I don't know them. But then a mixture of some laughs. I don't know if it's at my expense, but I'll take it either way.  
  
  Q. How did you get Beth Bader to dirty dance like that?  
 TIFFANY JOH: It was so easy. One take. She didn't repeat a single move. Honestly, I just out the camera there, turned on the music, and she went off. So now we're trying get her on Ellen.  
  
  Q. Oh, I think that would be great. I would love to see you on Ellen as well. Have you been here before?  
 TIFFANY JOH: This is my first year.   
  
  Q. Welcome to Alabama.   
 TIFFANY JOH: Thank you.   
  
  Q. Heck of a round. How many videos have you done?  
 TIFFANY JOH: I've done a lot, but only two of them are music videos. The rest of them are -- it was my first year on the Futures Tour and I was really bord and I had a lot of time. Just they're kind of stupid little clips that I do going to the gas station or going to a restaurant or something.  
  
  Q. So something to kind of take up the time a little bit?  
 TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, pretty much. I've always been kind of a YouTube junkie anyway.  
  
  Q. What's your favorite one?  
 TIFFANY JOH: That I've made or favorite YouTube video?   
  
  Q. Favorite one of yours, yeah.  
 TIFFANY JOH: I have to say Grip It just because Beth Bader dancing in it is priceless. You will never see that anywhere else.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT