CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2011
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So 7-under, 65 today, got off to a hot start, 31 on the front nine. Did you feel it going right away that you had something special today?   
 TIFANNY JOH: I mean, it was kind of weird because I didn't quite know what was going on. So I'd stick one to two feet and I'd be like thank God it's not a six-footer because I don't know if I'd make that.   
 Yeah, it was really surreal. It was really unexpected, so every time I'd make a putt, I'd turn around and look at my caddie and be like, wow, that went in. And pretty soon I think around the 11th or 12th hole I realized what I was doing, and I kind of tightened up a little bit and hit a couple wayward shots. Hit one just delicious chili dip par-5.   
 But I recovered from all of those and got up-and-down. So I think I was more impressed with how I played with the last seven holes than the first 11 just because I was able to recover from some really, really, ugly, unattractive shots.  
  
  Q. Can you take me through that 12th hole and that shot and what you thought after?   
 TIFANNY JOH: I kind of foiled my drive out to the right. Then I hit a rescue out, and I was trying to lay it back to like a full wedge shot. But I just absolutely nutted it. I ended up having like kind of an awkward, 35, 40-yard pitch shot. I'm kind of sitting there like I don't know. It's not like super sitting up. I'm not quite sure what to do. I was like just hit it. What is the worse that could happen?   
 It probably went 15 yards, and the first thing I checked was if the camera was on it. And I was like, oh, man, I think they saw that. And then I got up and was like, well, don't make more of a fool of yourself by throwing anything.   
 So I just kind of walked up. It was a pretty simple chip from there, and hit it to like five feet and then made the putt. I was just like could anymore weird things happen today? But other than that, I mean, it was nothing too bad.  
  
  Q. When you see yourself now near the top of the leaderboard, what are the feelings going into Sunday being up in this position in an LPGA tournament heading into the final round?   
 TIFANNY JOH: I think it's really exciting for me just because coming into this year I had conditional status, and I didn't even know how many events I was going to play. Just having the chance to contend at one, that is what dreams are made of.   
 I'm just really excited. I'm going into tomorrow with really no expectations because I've never been in this position anywhere. Whoever I'm paired with I'm sure I'm going to learn loads from them. I'm just excited.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk about your rookie season and how it's been? I know it's one of those, like you said, that you have to go back and forth between here and the Futures Tour at times.   
 TIFANNY JOH: I remember at Q-school when I think I three-putted two out of the last three holes or something, and I ended up missing the top 20 by two shots. I remember being really upset at first. But in retrospect when I look back, it's probably one of the biggest blessings that happened to me this year just because I've been able it to play so many tournaments.   
 I think the same goes for Ryan O'Toole and Jennifer Johnson, a lot of the girls that have done the same thing. It's a great way. And the competition's great out there too, and just being able to jump back and forth and fill out your schedule. I think that's been so much of a learning experience for me that I don't think I would have been -- I would have played as solid this this week if I hadn't played Harrisburg and then played the British Open and then Harrisburg, and then played Connecticut before that. I think all of that has really helped me in preparation for this.  
  
  Q. I heard one of the guys mentioning how you're on Twitter and a lot of fans follow you and kind of get that interaction. How fun is it to have fans that come up and talk to you?   
 TIFANNY JOH: It's pretty cool but at the same time I'm realizing oh my gosh, how much have they read? Sometimes when I write that stuff I treat it like a text message and I'm text messaging someone, and I forget that there are 1,000 whatever followers that are going to see it. Not to mention apparently my mom has a Twitter. Didn't know that.   
 I mean, I'm glad I haven't put anything really inappropriate, but at the same time I'm thinking, wow, people must think I'm the biggest dork they've ever seen on Tour.  
  
  Q. It's fun, and you also share your musical talents as well which is pretty neat.   
 TIFANNY JOH: Right.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT