THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 6, 2019
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today.  Got yourself in contention.  How does it feel to be contending going into the final day?  
TIFFANY JOH: Man, it feels great, but at the same time, there is still a lot of golf left to play, especially on a course like this when you can really get on a roll.  Anyone can go out there and shoot 10-, 11-under and run away with this thing.   
I mean, I'm not getting ahead of myself, but it's just nice to be in one of the last few groups.   
 Q.  We talked to a few of the people that played in the morning.  What did you think of the conditions in the afternoon?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, you know, it was very damp out there, and I think because we weren't here when it was raining I didn't really realize it on the first few holes.  I left my first three putts about eight feet short.   
Yeah, that was actually a little bit more the challenge, kind of readjusting for the speed of the greens.  I mean, other than that, it was still really receptive.  Even though it got really windy, the greens are still really holding well.   
 Q.  Last year Sei Young kind of ran away with this thing.  Now it looks like it's wide open heading into Sunday.  Pretty exciting feeling for any golfer, right, to know that there is a championship out there for somebody to take?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah.  It's nice that it's going to be a little bit of a horse race tomorrow.  But, I mean, at the same time, like S.H. Park, I could like easily see her being on the 59 watch tomorrow.   
So, yeah, there is still potential for her to run with it, but at the same time it's exciting that three days in we still have a pretty exciting golf tournament going on.   
 Q.  This has been such a great week for you overall.  How does this help your confidence with your game going into the final round tomorrow?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, it's really nice.  I think regardless of what happens tomorrow I can stay a lot out of these three rounds that I've just kind of strung together.   
I think tomorrow I'm just going to go out there and have a bunch of fun, and whatever happens, happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT