KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2019
Tiffany Joh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell me how does it feel to be back home?  Are you staying at home?  
TIFFANY JOH: Uh-huh.  It's great.  You know, I came back home, went to my favorite fish taco place and my favorite doughnut place.  Loaded up on all my favorite foods.   
Been paddling out every morning, so that's been really nice, and spending like way too little time on the golf course honestly.   
 Q.  That's probably good.  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I don't hate it.   
 Q.  Well then so like how do you create a routine when you're on the road and implement some of the things you really do like when you're home, when you're out?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I mean, as you know, I try to find a place to paddle out no matter where we go.  Arizona was a little hard.   
Yeah, doing things I love, I try to do them all the time.  If there is a surf break nearby, I will probably be at it.  I mean, I think I've driven like three hours to go surfing before.   
Other than that, I mean, for me the great thing about this tour is all of my best friends are on it.  Even if we're really far from home I never really feel like I'm super far from home.   
Yeah, just hang out with people that I love, do things I love, eat things that I love.   
 Q.  Then I saw that you did the First Tee event yesterday.  How was that?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, it was great.  So Maiya Tanaka, she and Sydnee Micahels are the ones that put the whole clinic together.  Maiya and I actually grew up in the First Tee together.  I've known her since I was like 12, 13 years, and then we ended up going to UCLA together.  She was my roommate in college.   
Sydnee I obviously played at UCLA with.  It was a really cool like reunion of all of us, and then a bunch of the kids from the First Tee chapter that we grew up in, Pro Kids, came up.  They were my putting partners for the team match thing.   
It's pretty funny because like I never talk trash like ever.  Something about -- like back then that that was almost like our love language.  We would always be talking smack to each other.   
So something about these kids showing, and even though it was supposed to be a team match, it became a one-on-one battle with this kid, Joshua.  It came down to the wire.  He made like a 30-footer to beat me out.   
I don't think I've ever been so upset about anything.  Missed putt, nothing.  Like I was way more upset.  Yeah, it was really nice to kind of get back to our roots and hang out with these kids.  They're good, too.   
Marina was in a couple groups in front of me and she had all these little kids that were draining these 30-footers.  I was like, I'm pretty sure they're beating you right now.   
Yeah, it was great.   
 Q.  So is there an opportunity for you to give them advice when you do these special events with them?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah.  I mean, 90% of the time I'm pretty much getting hustled, but for the remaining 10% of the time, yeah, like I love -- I mean, I don't give too much golf advice because they're all good.  Like they're all really good players as it is.   
I think just like finding a passion outside of golf and not taking it too seriously, I have some nuggets on that.  Yeah, I go down to Colina Park quite a bit.  All the kids that came up, I knew them already.  It was really easy to do.   
 Q.  I like hearing how like you implement a lot of outside golf interests into your life, and then also give back to the kids.  
TIFFANY JOH: I mean, they were giving it pretty good to me.  (Laughter.)  For a second I forgot because they started talking all this trash.  I was like, What is... Oh, yeah.  This is what we do.  I'm in your head Josh; I'm in your head.   
Marina looked over, The kid is like ten, dude.  Oh, no, this is just what we do.  It's fine.   
 Q.  What was the name of kid carrying your bag?  
TIFFANY JOH: Josh.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your season so far?  What's your game like?  Making any changes?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, I switched swing coaches like late last year, so a lot of this off-season was trying to like implement those swing changes.   
Then early on -- well, I had a little debacle where I forgot to commit to Australia.  I got a sponsor's invite into the Vic Open, and that was kind of my first go at it under the gun.  I kind of realized over the off-season I was probably practicing too much and not playing enough.   
So once I went into a tournament, kind of just went all sideways.  So when we had that little break after Australia I signed up for a couple Cactus Tour events to get a feel for what I need to do in a tournament situation.   
I think that actually really helped a lot, because last week I felt really comfortable with them and I hit the ball great.  Yeah, I'm feeling pretty good.   
 Q.  Awesome.  What is your new swing coach's name?  
TIFFANY JOH: Adam Porzak, another guy I've also known since I was 12.  We played junior golf events together.  His dad was on the board for the First Tee of San Diego.   
It's been really, really nice.  He also introduced me to my like fitness coach I started working out with, another guy I've known since second grade.   
 Q.  It's cool that you have familiarity with your team members.  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, uh-huh.  It's just really funny how things come full circle.  I feel like this is the age, in your late 20s/early 30s, when everyone kind of comes back to where they know.  I feel like everywhere I go I'm just running into people in elementary school, high school.  Yeah.   
 Q.  So crazy.  
TIFFANY JOH: I know, funny thing, life.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  So would you say the unicorn or sloth is your spirit animal?  
TIFFANY JOH: I would say the unicorn is my spirit animal in life and the sloth is my spirit animal in the gym.  (Laughter.)  Apparently sloths in the wild are green because they have moss growing on them and they just eat the moss right off them.   
 Q.  Anything else exciting planned for this week?  
TIFFANY JOH: I don't think so.   
 Q.  Just focusing?  
TIFFANY JOH: Yeah, just super focusing.  I think I went surfing for like 12 minutes this morning.  I was like, It's fun, but it's not fun enough to like stay out here a super long time.  It was super rippy, so yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT