NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 11, 2017
Zaza Pachulia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Setting the tone physically in this series has been really important.  You guys had, obviously, the better of it the first three games.  They sort of turned the tables a little bit in Game 4.  Does it come down to you and Tristan to set that tone?  Is that the battle that sets the tone for the entire game?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: You expect a big man to be tough out there, right, and play physical.  Both of us kind of do similar things -- seeing screens, rebound, bringing energy and effort.  So I would say yes.   
But at the end of the day, it's five-on-five.  If only one guy is out there playing physical, it might look a little crazy.  But I think the whole team should be on the same page, because they have the guys who are capable, on every possession, of bringing the physicality.   
 Q.  I don't mean it's just you, but Draymond's got to be more physical.  
ZAZA PACHULIA: Right, absolutely.  Our team as well.  Everybody needs to put forth the effort tomorrow, especially from the beginning.   
 Q.  It was intense.  Some people think some things crossed the line.  Were you ever concerned that --  
ZAZA PACHULIA: Absolutely not.  Absolutely not.  It was totally between the lines and with the respect of the rules.  Nothing has crossed the line.  It's emotional.  It's possibly the last game of the season, so you definitely don't want to give up anything easy.  We know it's not going to be an easy game for us.  We're going to earn it.   
 Q.  From your perspective, did Tristan play any differently in Game 4?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: Well, yeah, he was more effective, I think.  He was more active, I would say.   
 Q.  Are you going to make any changes in Game 5?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: We'll be better.  What kind of changes, we'll see about.  But we'll be better, I can tell you that.  With the effort and starting the game the right way and the small details and the 50/50 things, we're going to pay closer attention to it.  Playing at home, it should be to our advantage.   
 Q.  What would it mean to clinch at home tomorrow night?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: Yeah.  First of all, it doesn't matter where you win it, as long as you win, right?  We feel great about playing at home in front of our crowd.  It's going to be really loud tomorrow.  I can't wait to feed from the crowd with the energy and the noisy atmosphere.  But, bottom line, we're the ones on the floor, so we're going to make it even more fun for everybody.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT