NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
May 31, 2017
Zaza Pachulia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How are you feeling?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: Pretty good.  Really good.  Eight, nine days, whatever it was, between Conference Finals to here has definitely been beneficial for me and my injury.  So I'm ready to go.  I've been able to practice the last couple of days full speed, full load.   
 Q.  How do you make sure you stick to your game and not let some of that stuff that came out in the last series sort of get to you and cause you to ease up or change?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: That's all history for me.  If you want to win, you have to be strong not only physically but mentally.  Again, taking care of my injury, that was beneficial for me the last couple of days to get that work in.  But just let everything go, all the negativity and start with a fresh energy and prepare myself both mentally and physically for The Finals.  So for me and all the guys, it's over.  I'm not going to think about it.  We obviously have a different opponent now and it's a whole different situation than we were in a couple weeks ago.   
 Q.  Talk about the rebounding matchup with the Cavs.  What are you expecting from them in the paint and how do you guys match up?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: Well when it comes to the Finals -- even though it is my first time -- every category is very important.  Rebounding is definitely one of their strengths.  It gives them extra possessions.  That's one of our strengths, too, throughout the year.  So it's going to be a challenge.  It's going to be a battle down low.  But we're ready to take the challenge and be physical for every game.   
 Q.  What was the reaction from your teammates about what happened last series?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: I had full support from my teammates.  That's what I was expecting.  We're a family here, and definitely I had no doubt in my mind that starting that night, starting with text messages from all my teammates, I knew I had all their support.  That's what made it easier for me to get over it all.   
 Q.  What's your impression of Cleveland and the level of physical play they bring?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: They have amazing talent.  They're world champs.  They're playing the right way.  They do all the necessary things.  But I like our talent in our locker room.  It's a totally different team than this team was last year.  I love our chances and I'm looking forward to The Finals.   
 Q.  How has it been going from being a Dallas Mavericks free agent to getting here?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: The Mavericks' organization is a winning organization.  Looking at their records, obviously they won the title in 2011.  Playing with Dirk, J.J. [Barea] and for Coach Carlisle, it definitely prepared me for this situation.  I think the transition was easier coming from Dallas rather than coming from some different team where they struggle to get into the playoffs.  It was definitely beneficial to be part of that organization, spending some time with those guys and getting the winning habits and winning mentality.  It's just such a crucial thing for an athlete.   
 Q.  When you left Dallas as a free agent, how difficult was that?  
ZAZA PACHULIA: It's a business.  It's business for the team; it's business for the player as well.  It was the right decision for me last summer, and I'm definitely convinced right now that it was right decision.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT