GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2016
Zaza Pachulia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What made the Warriors a perfect fit for you when you had other maybe more lucrative offers out there elsewhere?
ZAZA PACHULIA: I'm excited.  I'm excited to be here.  To answer your question, obviously I had some options, but knowing my game, what I'm capable to do, it was about where my game is.  And obviously playing against this team, and knowing that Andre left, was going, actually, for the center, I thought it was a perfect fit.  I think we're going to compliment each other, my game with these guys.  So after that talking to coach, also made me convinced that it was the right place for me to come.
Q. What parts of your game do you think really fit in with this type of team?  What can you do well that will help this club?
ZAZA PACHULIA: Well, I think it's obvious what I can do, since I've been in the league for 13 years -- I'm going into my 13th.  And most of the years I've done the same thing.  Of course I tried to improve, but with this guy, and what this team means, for the big man, is obviously to setting good screens, making the free throws.  A lot of guys have free throw prowess.  Defensively rebound defense, blocking.  All the little things, basically, and doing the work and to help these guys and to help the team to win the games.
Q. How have you and the family acclimated to the Bay Area?  A lot of expectations from the Warriors, and what does that mean coming over?
ZAZA PACHULIA: Yeah, it's always different playing in the western conference.  Last year was in Dallas, first year, so I playing against the Golden State team a lot of times, and we got used to moving around, because it's my third team in the last three years.  So, yeah, used to moving around.  The whole family is excited about this opportunity.  Obviously the city is amazing, Bay Area is amazing, so much to do off the court.  So obviously the happier my family members the easier the job is.  We look forward to being here for a year, at least a year.
Q. Steph Currie said he was as excited playing with you as he was about Kevin Durant just to fill out this team.  What does it mean to getting to know Steve Currie already?
ZAZA PACHULIA: It's a huge compliment for me.  I'm very thankful.  When I signed here said that I always want to play for a team that I wanted to, you know.  So the feeling continues, and that's what makes you excited and really makes you do anything for this team, because they really need you, they really want you to be here.
Q. You and David West have mixed it up in the past.  You both are kind of known as tough guys, or at least that's your image, do you see your role and his role as an enforcer sort of on this team?
ZAZA PACHULIA: Well, yeah, we both have been doing that.  I think every team needs an enforcer.  Every team needs a tough guy.  Because without it it's very hard to play.  So that's a strength of a team.  So have a couple of enforcers on the team.
Q. When Coach brought you here, is that the same expectation, he wants you to give the same kind of performance?  What did he ask for when he recruited you?
ZAZA PACHULIA: The fans may feel that way.  But obviously I'm not paying attention to it, to the All Star.  I didn't come here to get my first All Star.  I came for this team.  I'm here to give everything that I have for this team to help win the games.
Q. What was your image of the Warriors?  And also what's your goal this season?
ZAZA PACHULIA: First of all, to play against the Warriors every single year, one of the keys is don't get the crowd involved.  That's an amazing crowd this team has, and it's definitely a huge privilege.  And I can't wait to play in this arena with a full house every single game.  It's going to be fun.
The goal is to win the Championship.  I'm sure everybody has said the same answer, and I'm not different.  And we -- I mean it.  It's going to be a fun year.  Of course we're going to need some breaks.  But we have a good group of guys who are going to work hard on and off the court, who is going to help each other, and our goal is to win the Championship.
Q. I understand you practice yoga from time to time.  How do you get started in that and how has it helped you?
ZAZA PACHULIA: Yeah, actually yesterday I went there, too.  I end up going to the place with Coach -- with Steve Currie going.  I've been doing it a couple years now, starting in Atlanta, where the team brought this lady was helping the team to stretch and work on balance in the court.  Since the first session I really liked it.  But last year was different, because Dallas was basically in it.  It started with the trainers, the coaches, the players.  You can call me yogi.  Steph Currie says he goes there, so we're going to the same place, I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT