BUFFALO WILD WINGS BOWL: MICHIGAN STATE v TCU
December 27, 2012
Le'Veon Bell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  Le'VEON BELL:   They're one of the best rush defenses in the Big 12.   I feel like if we break the barrier, run the ball on them well, they'll start to crumble. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
Le'VEON BELL:   I mean, it's crazy to hear things like that, especially on the college level. 
All the hard work and dedication I've been putting in, that's paying off.   Everybody really is starting to see.   But I just thank the Lord and my teammates and coaches. 

Q.   When you walk in the stadium, will it dawn on you that this is the possibility of your last game?
Le'VEON BELL:   I've thought about that.   I'll play like it's the possibility of my last game.   Run every run like it could be my last. 
Just keep that continuing and make sure we can be victorious. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
Le'VEON BELL:   I guess you can say that.   The way the year has been going, a lot of ups and downs.   We played a lot of great games, played some bad games.   A lot of games have been cold.   We failed and we succeeded. 
I want to make sure we go out and be victorious.

Q.   Is there a little extra pep in your step?
Le'VEON BELL:   Most definitely.   The fact that the game is right around the corner, everybody is drooling a little bit, ready to get back to it. 
We haven't been in a game in so long.   Everybody is ready to get back on the field. 

Q.   (Question regarding advice.)
Le'VEON BELL:   I've been thinking about it a lot more.   Right after school was over, we got a little break, got to go home.   I talked to my family, people close to me, my mentors, make sure I get the right views from everybody. 
Jerel Worthy, others, whether they left early, can help affect my decision.   I want to make sure I get the pros and cons of both, know what the real world is like versus college. 

Q.   That versus college?
Le'VEON BELL:   There will be certain moments, I don't want to leave this.   Sitting in the players lounge talking to R.J., Curtis, other guys I'm close with like Will, I see these guys every day just about.   Even when we had our break and everything, I don't see them for three days, it feels so much longer.   When I see them, Man, I haven't seen you forever.   It's crazy to think about it being over. 

Q.   This team is returning so many players next year, you might be right back there in the mix. 
Le'VEON BELL:   It factors in this a lot.   The fact I know we could have a great team coming back, especially if Will and Dion and others all decide to come back, I know we can be a great team.   I take that into my thoughts, into my 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT