NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Ricky Rubio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was your reaction hearing that the Bulls took Johnny Flynn.   
 RICKY RUBIO: That's a big surprise for me they took another point guard. But we are going to see what they want. I don't know yet what exactly they want.   
  
  Q. I don't mean to be funny here, it gets very cold in Minnesota. Is that something that would weigh your decision of staying in Europe or coming to the NBA?  
 RICKY RUBIO: I don't know yet, I have to think about that, because I'm just three minutes from a Timberwolves player. So I'm going to talk with my agent about that and we are going to see.  
  
  Q. Do you ever think about cold weather; is that an issue?  
 RICKY RUBIO: It's cold there. Yeah, my mom hates cold places. But we are going to see.   
  
  Q. I wanted to ask you, your Olympic experience, how much did that really help you being able to gauge playing against the top talent?   
 RICKY RUBIO: It's helped me a lot because I played against the best players in the NBA, so that means that I can play here.   
 I realized in the Olympic Games that I'm feeling good in the game, so that moment, I realize that I can play here, and that helps me a lot.   
  
  Q. Point guards are usually the traditional leader on the court. Being from a different country and being so young, how do you think that role will play out for you?  
 RICKY RUBIO: Oh, that's very hard, but when I was like 14 years old, I went to the professional team and there are guys 30 years old who don't listen to me in the beginning but after they see I can be a very good point guard and put them in the right way, and they believe in me. So I want to try to do the same here.   
  
  Q. How would you describe your game to people who have not seen you play?   
 RICKY RUBIO: Thinking about my teammates, if they are happy or not, who loves to pass and run and who loves to do defense, too.   
  
  Q. I wanted to just ask you about -- you mentioned the buy out situation. You mentioned the other day that it's your dream to come to the NBA, but is there any question about whether you're going to try to buy yourself out of the contract?  
 RICKY RUBIO: Well, now I know where I'm going to go, so I have to talk with the team, what exactly they want about me, and if necessary, I'm going to pay the buy out. We are closer to an agreement with the team, so we are going to see.  
  
  Q. Are you excited to go to Minnesota?  
 RICKY RUBIO: I'm excited to come to the NBA.   
  
  Q. Having said that you're excited to come to the NBA, were you hoping to be in more of an international type of market? It's not a very international city.   
 RICKY RUBIO: Yes, but I'm not thinking about the marketing right now. I'm thinking about to play minutes. That's my love. I want to play basketball, and if they give me minutes, I'm going to come.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT