BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2018
Bob Huggins
Daxter Miles, Jr.
Jevon Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
West Virginia - 66, Texas Tech - 63   
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by the Mountaineers of West Virginia, Coach Bob Huggins and his two student-athletes are Jevon Carter and Daxter Miles, Junior.   
 Q.  Jevon, the match-up with Devonte' and you guys going up against each other point guard to point guard?  
JEVON CARTER: It ain't about that.  It is West Virginia versus Kansas tomorrow.  It is five guys on that court at one time.  I hate when y'all try to make it a one-on-one match-up.  It's never about that.  It's 5 guys out there on the floor at a time.  It's West Virginia against Kansas.   
 Q.  Since both of you are seniors, this is your third straight title game.  What does this mean it for each of you for this to be your last shot at it?  
JEVON CARTER: It means a lot.  We want to go out with a bang.  It's our last year.  If we win tomorrow, we can hang a banner.  It's everything we dreamed of.  We're going to give it our all tomorrow night and we're going to see what happens.   
DAXTER MILES, JR.: It means everything at this point.  Just gotta be ready to play.   
 Q.  Jevon, having said what you did about it not being a one-on-one match-up, you guys went five-on-five against them in Lawrence a few weeks ago and had a disappointing result.  Any motivation from that that carries into tomorrow?  
JEVON CARTER: I guess you could say that.  It's championship.  That's all the motivation we need.  It's another game, another win we can get.  That's all the motivation we need.  It's not about what happened in the past; it's about tomorrow.  We're going to do our best.  We're going to come to fight and we're going to see what happens.   
THE MODERATOR: Guys, thank you.  Congratulations on your victory.  Questions for Coach Huggins?   
 Q.  You got another shot at Kansas.  What can your team do differently to get a different result?  
BOB HUGGINS: Score more points than them.  I don't know.  We have played pretty well.  They have played pretty well.  It's been two pretty well-played games.  I don't know.  Make another shot, maybe, get a free throw, something.   
 Q.  You guys didn't get as many steals as you usually do but were able to get offense going in the second half.  Does it seem like the team has been more comfortable being able to get out of half-court and not relying as much on the turnovers that you guys rely on?  
BOB HUGGINS: When you play three games in three days it's hard to play the way we play three days like that, but it's also hard for them to play against it.  We just backed it off because we wanted to guard in the half-court and try to make 'em run some clock.  Not put them at the foul line.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Coach.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT