BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2011
Bob Huggins
Kevin Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Coach, talk about the problems in the second half especially the shooting, what was going on with the team?
 COACH HUGGINS: It's been a year-long problem. We just don't make open shots. I don't know what to tell you. I've said it and said it and said it we just don't make open shots. We made some shots in the first half and then the second half we didn't make shots. We don't -- we don't have people who can drive it to the basket, that's not the kind of guys we have, you know, so it's -- we have to depend on making some shots. 

 Q. Coach, if you could talk about how you guys were able to slow down two players on Marquette, Jimmy Butler and Darius Johnson-Odom that had up until this game had been pretty proficient on offense, can you talk about what you guys were able to do to throw them off tonight? 
 COACH HUGGINS: I don't know that we threw 'em off. Darius made two three's and won the game. I don't consider that throwing them off.

 Q. I meant up until that point, before that?
 COACH HUGGINS: Tried to guard 'em. I mean, Jimmy may not have scored but he created offense. How many times does he drive it into the lane and pitch it to their bigs, that's not containing them, that's anything but. 

 Q. Kevin, Saturday against Louisville you personally had 11 offensive rebounds by yourself tonight as a team you had 9, what were they doing on defense or was it hard work and grit on the glass? 
 KEVIN JONES: I think you said it. It's hard work and grit. Rebounding comes down to basically who wants it more and they showed that they wanted it more and they didn't really do a great job of boxing us out but it all came down to who wanted the rebound more. 

 Q. Coach, this is the third year in a row that the defending champion has lost in their first game back in. Is there a point where a bye can work against you? 
 COACH HUGGINS: I don't think it worked against us. We played well the first half. If it would have worked against us, we wouldn't have played well the first half. Shoot 22% the second half you're not going to win. 
 You're not going to win in this league doing that. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you West Virginia. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT