BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2009
Da'Sean Butler
Devin Ebanks
Bob Huggins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 JOHN PAQUETTE: Questions, please? Responsibility.

 Q. Bob, after the first game, Pitino said he thought Syracuse would hang for a half and lose their legs. Most ordinary teams do that. Are you at all surprised they played as well as they did after last night?
 COACH BOB HUGGINS: Not at all.

 Q. Why?
 COACH BOB HUGGINS: I think style of play has a lot to do with it. It's just the way Jim has played for awhile. They play 2-3 zone so they're not chasing like, you know, like Rick (Pitino) when they're pressing and doing all that. I think the way they play defense is one thing and then, in all honesty, we don't have a whole lot of depth. It's hard for us to go out and chase them around. The game was -- the game was not an up-and-down game. If it was an up-and-down game I think it may be -- could affect them but that's not how we could have won the game.

 Q. Flynn's performance.
 COACH BOB HUGGINS: Full of questions, aren't you?

 Q. Nobody else has asked. Flynn's performance, 67 minutes last night, 45 minutes tonight. What he means to their team.
 COACH BOB HUGGINS: I think he's the most talented point guard in the country. He's really hard to stay in front of. He's a great, great athlete. He's got great speed. He's as fast with the ball as anybody is in transition. He shoots it. You try to go under a screen, he steps behind it and makes it. He's just -- he's a great player.
 JOHN PAQUETTE: Do we have any questions for the players?

 Q. You guys, anything contribute in particular to the turnovers against that zone tonight?
 DA'SEAN BUTLER: We were really tentative in the first half, not being aggressive and put the ball in terrible positions like in a corner and they were trapping us. We didn't take care of the ball and, you know, some guys had a lot of turnovers., myself included and, you know, kind of still in the -- didn't have as many in the second half. Again, you play terrible in the first half and no matter how you play in this conference, you might lose like just regardless.

 Q. Devin, the free throws at the end of regulation; there were a lot of guys coming in trying to throw off your rhythm. Talk about the young guy, what was going through your mind in that situation as you came back out and hit the second free throw?
 DEVIN EBANKS: What I try too do is basically clear my mind, not let the crowd affect me, just focus on the big free throws that I've made and fortunately I made them. I made them. Unfortunately in overtime we couldn't finish down the stretch.
 JOHN PAQUETTE: Any other questions?

 Q. Bob, did "Truck" (Darryl Bryant ) just hurry things in the last 20 seconds?
 COACH BOB HUGGINS: No. It was my fault. 20 seconds to go, I wanted to make sure we were organized defensively and I should have been -- in hindsight, what we wanted to do if we needed a three under ten seconds and I didn't do that. I mean he just tried to make a play. 
 I get very upset when we're not assertive and Truck just tried to make a play. You know, I don't know. I think they took a chance probably trying to block it, in all honesty, you know. But I mean they made -- they apparently played a good play. I didn't really see it so I don't know. He was just trying to make a play.

 Q. Bob, what kind of lift is this week going to give you going into next week, a win last night in?
 COACH BOB HUGGINS: You walk in our locker room there's not a lift in there, that's what we kind of talked about at halftime is, I know these two guys want to hang a banner that says Big East champions and we're disappointed. I mean we'll bounce back, we've bounced back all year. They're very resilient, wonderful people, but we're a little dejected right now.

 Q. Coach, since you mentioned about being upset, there was one timeout there where you actually took your play board and broke it. Was there --
COACH BOB HUGGINS: No, I was trying to flip it. It won't break.

 Q. Looked like --
COACH BOB HUGGINS: No, they've got the damn things now you can't break them (laughter).

 Q. Looks like it actually broke.
 JOHN PAQUETTE: Last question over here.

 Q. Coach, can you talk about the first half, you went into a free zone. You had to pick your poison, you played in the free zone.
 COACH BOB HUGGINS: We didn't rebound it out of the 1-3-1. They scored out of it, on second shots. We were out rebounded, what was it guys, 18 to 10 or something like that at halftime and I think they had 13 offensive rebounds. It doesn't do any good to run a defense if you don't rebound it out of it. So, you know, I thought we went -- we went man and point drop in the second half and didn't play any 1-3-1. Thought we rebounded it better. It still wasn't great but thought we rebounded better.
 JOHN PAQUETTE: West Virginia, thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT