WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC SEMIFINALS AND FINAL
March 20, 2009
Derek Jeter
Davey Johnson
Roy Oswalt
David Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: I would like to welcome all of you to our formal session. We are joined with manager, Davy Johnson, Derek Jeter, David Wright, and we will have Roy Oswalt in a few minutes.   
  
  Q. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Congratulations to make it go to the semifinals. I have a question about the interest or possible lack of interest that American fans have regarding the WBC. Do you think making it to the semifinals will increase their level of interest and educate them a little more?   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Well, I definitely think so. I'm sure we'll have a big crowd on Sunday, but I think the American people are a little slow to get it. But I think the victory we had over Puerto Rico went a long way in creating fan interest.   
  
  Q. Derek, can you go back and give me an idea of whether this looked fun to you, whether you felt like it was a responsibility, that this was something you felt was worthwhile? It's a big commitment or maybe to get away from spring training for a few weeks. What has put you here in these two WBCs?  
 DEREK JETER: The first time around, I don't think anyone knew what to expect. A lot of players didn't know how it was going to work out. They didn't know the format, myself included. Then once you had the opportunity to go out there and play and wear the uniform, represent your country, and be around the guys, you realized what an honor it was.   
 And that's the reason I'm here this time. It's not to get out of spring training for two or three weeks. It's to come out here and represent our country and win a championship here.   
 It's a fun experience, an experience that, after the first time around, a lot of players were saying that they wanted to do it this time. Guys obviously have their reasons for not being able to participate, but I think more players wanted to play than not.   
  
  Q. Davy, is Oswalt being in here indicate that he's your starter on Sunday?   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Yeah, Roy is starting on Sunday. Jake is going on Monday.   
  
  Q. What went into the decision to do that?   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I think pitch count, and where they're at in spring training. And Roy seemed to be farther along than Jake. Either choice was fine with me. Decided to go with Roy and come back with Jake, give him extra time.   
  
  Q. David, I'm wondering what it's been like for you since that rally against Puerto Rico in terms of people you have heard from, how people have reacted to that moment and your part in it.   
 DAVID WRIGHT: It obviously went all positive. I don't think I've ever had so many phone calls and text messages after a game. That's something that, you know, no matter what team you play for, or, you know, who your favorite team is in the big leagues, you're talking about representing your country and putting this uniform on and going out there and being able to do that. That would be a memory that, for me, lasts a lifetime.   
  
  Q. Derek, how does this help you get ready for the season? The Yankee thing is too unique in Tampa, explain that to me.   
 DEREK JETER: The Yankee thing is unique, huh (laughter). I think everyone is making such a big deal of we're not playing enough games, haven't had a lot of off days. Ideally, you would like to play every single day, but that's not the case here. As long as you do what it takes in order to prepare yourself, most of the guys here know what it takes, understand what it takes to get ready for the season. 2006 was similar, but I really don't think people have a problem getting ready. Even when this tournament is over with, we will have a week to ten days when we get back home.   
  
  Q. Davy, can you talk about the challenges of all the injuries you've had and the addition of Evan Longoria, what he's going to bring?   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: It's nice to have Evan. He's played for us, and I don't think -- the last time he played for the USA was in the World Cup, and he had a great series. I'm not expecting to use him, he's an insurance policy. I could have used somebody that could play first base because we've had injuries over there, a little more critical to the team. We're in good shape. We're going to be in good shape on Sunday.   
  
  Q. Derek and David, I don't know if you saw Matsuzaka in San Diego, and he's going to be there on Sunday, he's cranking up pretty good, 85, 86 pitches last time. Are you guys in March ready for that kinda guy? How much of a stretch is it to be yourselves against a guy like that who looks pretty ready?   
 DEREK JETER: We face him all the time. Playing Boston 20 games a year, we see him all the time, so I'm familiar with what he throws. I think, you know, at this point in the season, pitching is usually a little ahead of the hitters. It's like that in the postseason, good pitching wins.   
 So it's going to be a challenge for us. And for them facing Roy. You go out there and hopefully we can put together some good at-bats and score some runs, but it is going to be a challenge.   
 DAVID WRIGHT: I think we will be leaning on the A.L. East guys a lot. I've never had the opportunity of facing him. Having some A.L. East guys is going to help, go over scouting reports and some tendencies, so we're going to be leaning on those guys.   
  
  Q. Davey, Derek, how much of a revenge factor is there for you guys since this game is America's pastime?   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: You know, all these countries have put a great team on the field, and certainly the defending champion Japanese team, it's going to be a good contest. I think it's probably more revenge against us. We beat their team in the Olympics, so I think they're looking for revenge more than we are.   
 DEREK JETER: I never try to look at things as revenge. Even if we were to win the first tournament, this time, you're still trying to win. So I don't think you try to win more just because you lost three years ago. It's just a matter of trying to take this tournament -- it's different than the last tournament, and this group here is trying to win.   
  
  Q. I have a question for Mr. Johnson. I understand that Mr. Johnson was playing in Japan, so a lot of people in Japan are familiar with you, and Manager Hara of Team Japan respect you, and he's really looking forward to playing against you. How do you feel about that? Another question is having played in Japan, I believe it was about two years, what was the difference you felt between the Japanese and the American teams? What do you feel about those teams, the difference right now?  
 DEREK JETER: Can you repeat that?   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: (Speaking in Japanese.)   
  
  Q. What was your take on the Japanese after your two years of playing there.   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I really had a good time playing for the Tokyo Giants. Many tomodachis, many friends. It was a great experience. I had a great teammate in Oh-san, and a great manager in Nagashima-san. And I know the team, the team playing there now is managed by a great third baseman, Hamgi-san(phonetic), currently managing the Tokyo Giants.   
 I'm looking for it to be a great ballgame. A lot of my tomodachis now are doing other things, Takada-san, and managing the Yakult Swallows, so I try to keep up with what they're doing over there, and I talked to Hara-san and wished him luck and he did the same to me.   
 THE MODERATOR: We have Roy Oswalt joining us now.   
  
  Q. Davey, having managed in New York, and seeing the way these guys develop, can you talk about how you see them. Obviously, Derek helping David, but just the whole New York, thing with these guys?   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I mean, managing New York is a lot of fun. You have a lot of experts criticizing ya, and everybody's got a different way of doing things, but it's a great challenge. It's a great city to play baseball in. Having these guys here, this is like -- the media here is like a day off. It's been nothing like the crush in New York. So it's probably going to -- this is more like what you would have in New York at a press conference.   
 ROY OSWALT: Looks more like Houston.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Steve Philips asked me if there were any surprises, and I said not really. The make-up of this club is exceptional. Every player is a great player and it's been very easy to handle.   
  
  Q. David, so this is your second time on this team in the WBC. You guys played against the Japanese team three years ago, and I don't know if you remember, you guys won. Came out strong and won the championship anyway. And, you know, for us Japanese people, we got stolen the win. Do you remember that? Well, what was going through your -- if you remember what was going through your mind at the time? Would you tell us your expectation this time around?   
 DEREK JETER: I don't remember.   
  
  Q. Come on.   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Yeah, we won by a run. It was a questionable call, usually there are games where there are questionable calls, but it worked out for us that particular day. But it worked out for Japan in the end. They ended up winning a championship, so I don't think they feel that bad about that game in particular.   
 Anytime you play these tournaments, it's fun. It was my first time around last time. I'd never been a part of any kind of international tournament. I enjoyed myself.   
 This year has been just as fun, and we're happy to be here in the semifinals. But hopefully, it will be another good game for us on Sunday.   
  
  Q. Roy, what's your feeling about starting the game on Sunday?   
 ROY OSWALT: Saying that it would probably be Monday, no different. They told me yesterday that they wanted me to go first and Jake go second. Hopefully, he gets to go second. But I mean, Japan, I watched some of the game last night, I actual got to pitch against Korea in 2000.   
 So I was watching both to see different types of hitters they had. But the thing about Japan is they have two or three hitters that play in the big leagues, so we have a little bit of a scouting report on them, where the other guys fill the game out as it goes and try to pitch to my strength and adjust from there.   
  
  Q. Are you capable of going 100 pitches?  
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Oh, yeah. I think last game, we threw around 80 pitches. So, yeah, see how the game goes and I'm sure -- I don't make that call, but I should be able to go 100 pitches.   
  
  Q. Given the huge international support for the game, do you feel like a visiting team in Miami? What is it going to take for you to bring out the fan base that you receive at your home games?   
 DAVID WRIGHT: We knew going into Canada that it was going to be a visiting atmosphere, and we were right about that. And Miami, we didn't know what to expect. We knew that there were a large Puerto Rican and Venezuelan contingency. And in the end, our fans came out, a lot of USA chants.   
 But moving forward, we expect to have more fan support come this round, because I think just the general baseball fan is seeing the kind of intensity and focus and desire that we have to win and hopefully that catches on.   
  
  Q. Derek?   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Yeah, we've pretty much -- it seems like we've been the visiting team on most of the games. I think in Miami, there were more U.S. fans than there were in Canada, the Latin fans were louder, they brought their drums, singing songs, jumping up and down, so you probably heard 'em a little bit more.   
 But during the game against Puerto Rico, our fans turned up the volume a little bit.   
  
  Q. Davey, given the number of injuries this time around, is there a concern that in future World Baseball Classic the organizations will be more hesitant to allow players to play?   
 DAVEY JOHNSON: You know, I don't think so. The injuries we have are not serious injuries, most of 'em, four or five days off, and they'll be fine. That happens in baseball. We have a grinding schedule. Eight or nine months, guys are out on the field, things happen.   
 And like I say, the injuries, you take are precautionary measures on the players. Manny Ramirez is in great shape, one day in camp, he's hurt. Pitchers are dropping. That's part of baseball, and I think you're just looking at it closer here. But there are things you do in the season, happens all the time.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Team USA.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT