AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS v YANKEES
October 2, 2003
Derek Jeter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   What are your thoughts on the lineup changes for tonight and your different position in the order?

DEREK JETER:  I saw I am hitting second.  I don't know the other changes.  Mr.  T switches the lineup around throughout the course of the year so it's nothing new. 

Q.   Joe had mentioned how he briefly talked to Jason after Game 1 just to tell him to relax, not put so much pressure on himself; you as the captain, did you have anything to say to Jason?

DEREK JETER:  Jason has been in this position before, it's not like it's his first time being in the postseason.  He's been in big games before.  He's responded well in big games and you know, it's just one game.  Hopefully he can come  -- he swung the bat pretty well towards the end of the year the last week or so.  Hopefully he will get some hits today, but some guys that have been through this, I mean you can encourage them but they don't really need too much.  I think he will be fine. 

Q.   Last night in Atlanta for example, John Smoltz said going into that game they had to play with a sense of desperation.  Do you feel the same way going into this game tonight?

DEREK JETER:  Well, you should feel that way every game you play in the postseason.  You should never go into a situation saying you have the luxury of losing a game or it doesn't make a difference.  I am sure Minnesota doesn't come into this game saying, "well, we won our game, let's just split and go home."  Especially in a 5-game series.  You got to take the approach that every game is the fifth game or the seventh game. 

Q.   Anything you are going to have to do after the season with your shoulder, any surgery?

DEREK JETER:  No.  I don't plan on it.  I mean, as long as you strengthen it, it should be fine.  So I hope not. 

Q.   Looking ahead for a moment, any thought to the noise that you guys will encounter when you get to Minnesota and how you have to handle it as ballplayers?

DEREK JETER:  I would expect it to be loud.  I was around in 1995.  I wasn't on the roster, but I was at the games in Seattle when it was pretty noisy.  So Minnesota fans have a reputation for being pretty loud especially in the postseason.  We had a chance to watch it last year when they were playing Anaheim.  You worry about that when you get there.  But we are used to noise.  It gets pretty loud here at Yankee Stadium.

Q.   Joe was mentioning that perhaps you guys were just a little wound a little too tight on Tuesday but he was sensing that perhaps you guys have kind of calmed yourselves down or at least channeled your energy in the right places today.  Are you sensing that you guys as a team are a little more relaxed as you go into Game 2?

DEREK JETER:  I think a lot of times if you don't play well people say you are pressing and a little tight and if you play well they say how relaxed you were.  This is the postseason, this is what you play the entire year for.  Yeah there's going to be butterflies.  You are going to want to do well.  But you just have to treat it like it's just another game.  It's still baseball whether the calendar says April or October.  I think that's the way you have to approach it.  But I think everyone is pretty loose and then hopefully after the game I can say that's how loose we were. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT