AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES v MARINERS
October 16, 2001
Derek Jeter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You looked like you limped in here.  Are you okay? 

DEREK JETER:   No, I'm all right. 

Q.  Everybody has been talking about you guys have been down 2-0 and came back to win the series, and now playing a team that has 116 wins, you are being count out again.  Do you think you have earned more respect, having earned four world titles in five years, to be so easily dismissed? 

DEREK JETER:   Well, I mean, with what we've done four out of the last five years has no bearing on this year.  So I really don't think people take that into consideration.  I know we don't take that into consideration.  Just like what you've done in the regular season has no bearing on the post-season.  If that was the case, then we would have gone home after the first round.  I don't think it's disrespectful for we feel as though people are counting us out, just because they are picking the other team to win.  Seattle, obviously, has had a great season, the best record ever in the history of the American League.  So I'm sure most people would pick them to win, but we have a lot of confidence.  It's baseball  -- both teams are 0-0 right now, so you never know what's going to happen.

Q.  As you guys are the champions that won't die, and the Mariners with the best record in 95 years, do you think this match up will be an epic that's really something special?

DEREK JETER:   You hope so.  We anticipate it being a tough series.  Hopefully it will be a good series for both teams.  But I think a lot of people may be wanting to see this, especially since Seattle broke our record that we set in 1998 and now we stand in the way of them trying to win a championship.  They stand in the way of us trying to win another one.  So I think a lot of people going into the post-season maybe wanted to see this.

Q.  I know the play you made in Oakland, you said you just were doing your job and obviously last night you were tracking the ball and made the catch, but what is it about the post-season, do you enjoy that?  Some people shrivel up in the post-season but you seem to blossom. 

DEREK JETER:   I've played a lot of games in the post-season ever since my first year.  You have to enjoy playing in this type of atmosphere.  Obviously, you're under the microscope; everything you do is going to be magnified.  Just because you enjoy it doesn't mean you're going to go out there and be successful but you can't shy away from it; I've said that before. But even if I go out and make four or five errors in the game, I'm still going to tell you the same thing.  Everyone is going to make mistakes, but I just enjoy being in these types of situations.

Q.  Having been on a team that won 114 games, can you give us an idea of what it is for the Mariners to win 116 games?

DEREK JETER:   It's tough to do.  I don't think people realize how difficult it is.  To win that many games, you basically have to go an entire year without going through a bad stretch.  We had a bad stretch there in September in '98.  We won 114 games, but Seattle went the entire year; they lost three games in a row maybe once.  That's something that's very, very difficult to do, especially you look at  -- they played Oakland a lot there during the end of the season and they were still able to win 116 games and Oakland played better baseball than anybody the second half of the season.  It's pretty remarkable what they were able to accomplish.  After we set the record in 1998, I didn't think anyone else would be able to break it.  But them winning 116 games, I think that's safe for a while. 

Q.  Given what's happened in New York recently, was it more special this time around? 

DEREK JETER:   Well, every year is a little bit different.  Last night, the game in New York, that's as loud as I've heard it in Yankee Stadium.  You compare it a little bit to '96 when we were in the World Series; New York had not seen  -- or the Yankees had not seen the post-season or a World Series I think in 18 years and it was pretty loud.  But last night I think by far was the best atmosphere I've seen at Yankee Stadium and it says a lot about the people of New York, the fans coming out.  They wanted to see us win.  That's what we have heard all along and they came out and supported us.  Thus far this post-season has been pretty special. 

Q.  Obviously people in New York always love you guys, but generally at this time of the year you're the team everybody else hates and wants to see lose, how does it feel to suddenly be the feel-good story and the team the nation is rooting for?

DEREK JETER:   I don't think the nation is rooting for us.  I don't think the people in Seattle are rooting for us.  People are going to still love to hate the Yankees.  I think people in the past hated New Yorkers or said New Yorkers had some huge attitude, and I think now when you see how New York has come together, I think that the attitude or the impression that people have of New York has changed a little bit, but I don't think that the attitude towards the Yankees is going to change.  I think you either love us or hate us. 

Q.  Have you sensed any difference in the stands on the road in the last month, the way the fans react to you?  I'm sure you always take a lot of verbal abuse when you go on the road.  Has that diminished in the last month noticeably?

DEREK JETER:   First game back.  We played Chicago I think was the first time since little league I can remember people not booing us or booing you or getting on you or telling you how bad you are.  But it only lasted one night.  So I think everything is back to normal.  (Laughs).

Q.  Given each team's really strong bullpen, how much pressure does that put on the offenses, maybe through this first six innings of a game? 

DEREK JETER:   Well, you know, runs are hard to come by in the post-season because good pitching  -- especially when you get to this point, the last four teams in baseball all have great pitching staffs.  They have good starters, they have good bullpens, and more often than not, they have good closers.  So, you know, you try to score early.  It's very difficult to do.  You don't want to fall behind in a post-season game, especially in the late innings, especially facing a team like Seattle with the bullpen they have.  You anticipate low-scoring games, but then again, you never know what's going to happen. 

Q.  Going back to your ability to rise to the occasion in October, is this something you did growing up at other levels or is it something you kind of just learned to do on the run here? 

DEREK JETER:   Well, I don't know if you really learn to play well in big situations.  You know, I came up in '95 and I was around for the post-season.  I wasn't on the roster, but Buck Showalter kept me around and gave me the opportunity to see what it was like.  I think I learned a lot and it helped going into '96, being in the post-season atmosphere that I was able to see.  So I think I've sort of grown into it.  And you know what it's like to play in big games.  But I've been fortunate, as well. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT