AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARINERS v YANKEES
October 14, 2000
Derek Jeter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  It's a big centerfield.  Off the bat, did you think it had a chance to get out of here?

DEREK JETER:   Well, we play in a big field, as well.  When I hit it, I knew I hit it well.  But I thought I hit it too high.  And you have Cameron in centerfield, and he's robbed me before.  It looked like he was going to catch it.

Q.  Knowing A-Rod as you do, from the side, it sure looked like the first at-bat when Roger came inside.  From then on it looked like he was inside A-Rod's head.  Did he get inside his head? 

DEREK JETER:   I can't comment on what's going on in Alex's head.  He's tough.  Everyone knows that the Rocket pitches inside.  When we used to face him, he used to do the same thing.  I wouldn't say it was inside of his head, but I can't comment on what he's thinking.

Q.  The way Roger was pitching today, when you hit that ball out, when you were rounding the bases, did you pretty much know this game was over? 

DEREK JETER:   Well, you hope it's over.  But they have a tough lineup.  1 through 9, they have guys they can get on base.  And then you have Alex, obviously, Edgar and Olerud, that are capable of hitting it out of the park.  That situation, the way it was looking, we felt as though it might be enough.  But Justice's home run gave us the two insurance runs.  The game is never over until you get all 27 outs.

Q.  Do you ever get a chance from where you are sitting to think about what the batter's perspective is on facing Roger in a game like tonight?

DEREK JETER:   I've been in the batter's box when he's been pitching like that.  He used to shut us out and shut us down and dominate us when he was with Boston and Toronto, so I'm well aware what it's like to face him when he's on.  He has three pitches:  A fastball, a splitter as hard as most pitcher's fastball, and a slider.  When he has all three of those pitches working, he's tough to beat.

Q.  Succeeding and not succeeding with two outs; is that kind of a momentum thing that rolls?

DEREK JETER:   Momentum is only as strong as the next day's starting pitcher.  Obviously, you hope that it builds confidence, but I don't think that anyone on this team is lacking in confidence.  When you are playing in tight games and close games, anything can happen, especially with two outs.  If you get a big hit or if you run hard or make a double-play or do whatever, anything is possible, and that's the feeling that we have.

Q.  Can you comment on what Garcia was able to do to fool you guys in Game 1 and what you'll have to do tomorrow to close the series out? 

DEREK JETER:   He did everything to shut us down.  Obviously, he has good stuff.  His fastball moves a lot.  He throws a slider.  But we look like we had no clue against him.  So anything will probably be better than what we did in Game 1.  He's a tough pitcher.  In my opinion, he's their No.  1 starter, so it's going to be tough.  We've got to take the game like we're down three games to one.  We don't sit around and say we have the luxury of a two-game lead because anything is possible.

Q.  The home runs seem to be coming now after struggling for a period of time.  Was that inevitable? 

DEREK JETER:   I think we're having better at-bats.  We're not a home-run hitting team, but we're capable of hitting the ball out.  We don't rely on home runs, but we've gotten -- had a couple of big home runs the last few days.  As long as we're having quality at-bats and swinging at strikes, anything can happen.  As I said, we have a couple of guys that are capable of hitting it out. 

Q.  Are you going to buy that hitting instructor dinner? 

DEREK JETER:   Gary Denbo, he's been with me since my first year of professional baseball.  He sees some things that maybe other people don't.  And me and Chris work on it.   I owe him a lot more than just one dinner.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT