MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2000
Derek Jeter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. No other Yankee has ever won this before. Does that surprise you?
 
 DEREK JETER: Yes, it does. Taking into consideration all the great players that have
been in the Yankee Organization, you'd think in the past that one would win. But if you're
in a game like this, you have to be in the right place at the right time, and I was very
fortunate. 
 
Q. Looked like to me you and Garciaparra were imitating each other at the plate.
 
 DEREK JETER: I didn't see it. Did he imitate me? I didn't see it. I was in here last
time. I tried to imitate him last year, and I struck out, so I didn't do a good job. So I
told him just go ahead and be himself. 
 
Q. You and I talked the other day about all the great Yankees that have come before
you, and you did something tonight, of course, I think in my mind, that puts you in that
company. Do you feel that way?
 
 DEREK JETER: I don't think so. I mean, you have to play for a lot of years before you
can be considered a Yankee Great, and I've only played four years. This is my fifth year.
Hopefully, I can play for a few more years then start that debate. But at this point, I'm
still very -- hopefully -- young in my career. 
 
Q. What was it like getting your big hit off Leiter? The Met/Yankee rivalry.
 
 DEREK JETER: When you're in a situation in an All-Star Game, you don't really say,
"Oh, here's a Met. I want to get a hit off him." Obviously, you're happy to be
here; you want to have a good time. I said previously that I had two All-Star at-bats
before, and I struck out both times, and I wanted to swing early in the count and
hopefully put the ball in play. It really had nothing to do with Al Leiter -- nothing
special with that. 
 
Q. You're 26, won three World Series rings, Rookie of the Year. Do you think you're
just charmed?
 
 DEREK JETER: Well, I think I'm very fortunate. I've been in the right place at the
right time. I came up in an organization that had a lot of veterans my first year. We've
been able to be very successful. But I never really look at the past to see what I've
done. I focus on the present and worry about the future; and hopefully, I think down the
road, I think that's when you sit down and reflect on your career. I don't ever sit around
and say, "We've accomplished this or that." 
 
Q. MVP Award, Winfield, Mattingly, Willie Randolph, these are guys you've been around.
Yogi Berra, Reggie Jackson. None have ever won that. When you leave here tonight, will you
think about that? That you have something all the Yankee Greats never had?
 
 DEREK JETER: Yeah, it will probably take some time. Right now I'm very happy,
obviously; but I think in due time, when I sit down and get a chance to reflect on it,
then you realize how special it is. And I wasn't aware that no Yankee, no other Yankee had
won this award, and it's kind of hard to believe. 
 
Q. The Yankees have come here the last three years, and you always seem to hit well
here. Is the hitting background here at Turner Field very good for you guys, for you
collectively?
 
 DEREK JETER: I don't think it's any different than any other stadium. We've been
fortunate here. We played some big games, and obviously the World Series -- every time we
play the Braves in a regular-season game, it's a big series. Now the All-Star Game. So our
team has been successful here. Maybe we seem to focus a little bit more. I have no idea.
But I don't think it has anything to do with the background. 
 
Q. The American League bench seemed to be really intense the whole game. Can you talk
about the atmosphere in the dugout, the competitiveness -- what was it like?
 
 DEREK JETER: It was a great atmosphere. Even when guys came out of the game, they
seemed to stick around. The All-Star Game is something you never take for granted, because
you never know when you're going to get an opportunity to come back. I think everyone was
just enjoying the moment and getting a chance to talk to the other players. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT