MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2000
Derek Jeter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You seem to -- you and the Yankees, you seem to love hitting in this ballpark. What
is it about the park?

DEREK JETER: Well, it's a great stadium, obviously. You can see very well at the plate.
But, you know, we played some very important big games here against the Braves, obviously
in the post-season, regular-season, now this game here. So I don't know. I don't know what
to tell you. I guess it's just good fortune.

Q. How strange is it that the playoff teams from the American League last year are
having such accumulative trouble this year?

DEREK JETER: Well, you know, everyone -- I mean talking about my team personally,
everyone's talking about how much we're struggling, yet we're still tied for first place.
It's not easy to win. We made it look kind of easy three out of the last four years. But
it's very difficult to do year after year. We haven't been as consistent as we'd like, but
we're still tied for first, and we've been playing a lot better the last couple of weeks;
so hopefully, we'll carry it over to the second half.

Q. After two strikeouts in your previous two All-Star Games, you said you wanted to
make contact?

DEREK JETER: I told you. I was thinking about bunting, but Randy Johnson's not the guy
to bunt off of. I wanted to put the ball in play, so I was swinging early on the count.

Q. Are you satisfied?

DEREK JETER: Yeah, most definitely. When you face guys like that, you try to swing and
get out of there as soon as possible.

Q. Facing three guys in a row, like you faced tonight: Johnson, then Kevin Brown, and
finally Leiter, did you have the same game plan against each of those three guys, or did
you call on --

DEREK JETER: I basically had the same game plan against everyone. I'm a free swinger. I
think it's known around the league, maybe both leagues. Like I said earlier, like he had
mentioned, I struck out in my only two All-Star at-bats. I wanted to at least put the ball
in play. But when you're facing three guys like that, you want to swing early in the
count. If you fall behind, you're in trouble.

Q. I don't know if this was asked, is Randy throwing as hard as he usually does?

DEREK JETER: You know, I don't know. I have no idea. We haven't faced him since maybe
'96, when he was with Seattle. The last couple years, we always seem to miss him. You
know, he was throwing -- he threw me a first pitch fastball that I fouled off, then a
slider. And the second one I hit off the end of the bat. I don't know, it might have been
a change-up.

Q. Fastball, slider, change-up, Derek?

DEREK JETER: I don't know. Maybe it was a fastball. I was just hacking.

Q. You could hear the crowd reaction. What was the player reaction when Andres was
introduced?

DEREK JETER: It was a great. That's a great story, for him to come back and have the
year that he's having this year, then to get a chance to start in the All-Star Game at
home. He got a warm reception both from the fans and the players. He's a great person as
well as a great player.

Q. Your hit off Leiter, what was that?

DEREK JETER: A cutter. I mean he does it every time I face him. I try to lay off of it.
I didn't hit it well, I just hit it in the right place. He's a tough pitcher. Alomar and I
were talking about it after our at-bats. He throws the ball, it seems like it's going to
go down the middle, and it runs off your hands.

Q. Even though it's called an exhibition, it doesn't count in the standings, when
you're out there facing the best players in the game, do the juices flow just as if you're
in the playoffs?

DEREK JETER: Most definitely. You get butterflies before the game. It's a situation
where you have the best players in baseball here. You want to have fun, but you also want
to do well. But the No. 1 priority I think is just to come out here and give the fans a
good show.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT