AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v YANKEES
October 4, 2011
Derek Jeter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 New York Yankees 10
  Detroit Tigers   1 
   
  Q. Derek, can you describe that moment on the mound when Joe came to get A.J., you guys looked like you were all encouraging him. Can you tell us a little about what you guys said, the feeling of him going off the mound there?   
 DEREK JETER: We said "great game." A.J., he's pitched some big games for us in the past, and he came in today, he seemed very relaxed, very confident, and he pitched huge when we needed him the most. This, obviously, goes saying how big this game was. A.J. deserves all the credit. He shut down a tough team over there. He's the reason we get an opportunity to play on Thursday.   
  
  Q. Derek, from your vantage point in the first inning, did you think Curtis was going to make that catch?   
 DEREK JETER: Yeah. I think he's made that catch against me here when he played for Detroit. So he's very familiar with this ballpark, but that was a very, very important part of the game. If that gets over his head, three runs score. It was definitely a very, very important part of the game.   
 Curtis has played great center field for us all year long. You come to expect those kind of plays.  
  
  Q. Derek, on your double, you hit a ball the other night real hard that Austin Jackson tracked down. Were you confident when that ball left your bat that was going to clear his head?   
 DEREK JETER: No, I actually thought he caught it. After seeing the replay, the ball bounced right back up to him, and he bare-handed it. From my vantage point, all I saw was his back. That's why I stopped at second. I thought he had caught it and that was double play. Austin has run down a few of my fly balls over the years. But fortunately for us, that one fell in.   
  
  Q. In your years, you've seen players come to New York and perhaps not produce to their standards or expectations. A.J. perhaps fits that mold. Can you describe what you've seen from him and how he's held up under that sort of circumstance.   
 DEREK JETER: I think the thing you have to realize it doesn't make a difference what you've done in the past. Every opportunity, especially in the postseason, every opportunity you play, you have an opportunity to do something good. He was able to do that. No one is thinking about what's happened prior to tonight's game. We wanted him to go out there and pitch well. Trust me, I'm pretty sure all New York fans will remember this game as opposed to some of the other games.   
 A.J. expects a lot out of himself. He's hard on himself, which I think is good at times. But today, like I say, you couldn't ask for him to do anything more.   
  
  Q. Derek, on the double, were you particularly looking for something to drive in that situation?   
 DEREK JETER: I was looking for a good pitch to hit. Porcello, I haven't had too much success off of him, I saw on the scoreboard actually right before that pitch. I don't know why I looked up there, but I saw that. He's been throwing the ball extremely well for them the last month or so, I believe. I'm just trying to get a good pitch to hit. Fortunately for me, he left one up. I'm sure it was a mistake on his part.   
  
  Q. Derek, can you describe Curtis' second catch from your vantage point, if you thought he was going to get to that ball.   
 DEREK JETER: When it was initially hit, I thought it was an out for sure, but I didn't see where he was playing. And then when I saw him running after it, I thought we were in trouble. But he covers a lot of ground. Curtis has been playing a great center field for us. But he covered a lot of ground. After I saw where he was playing, I didn't think he was going to catch it.   
  
  Q. Derek, you have a rookie going in Game 5. What's different about Nova that probably gives you confidence in that spot?   
 DEREK JETER: He's been pitching well for us all year. He pitched well the first playoff game. He's got good stuff. I think the thing with him that stands out is his demeanor. He doesn't seem like he's fazed by too much. Maybe because he doesn't speak fluent English and I don't know it, but it appears to me like he's pretty comfortable out there.   
  
  Q. Derek, could you talk about what it means to be able to play a decisive game of the series at home.   
 DEREK JETER: We enjoy playing at home. If you are going to win a championship, you have to play well at home, you have to play well on the road. We were fortunate to get a split here and bring it back to New York on Thursday. I'm pretty sure our fans will be vocal, excited and so will the Tigers. It's going to be a challenge for us. Hopefully we can win one more game.   
  
  Q. Derek, fans will see the score 10-1 and they'll think you've inflicted the kind of psychic damage on Detroit which will make it very difficult for the Tigers to come back and beat you in Game No. 5. What do you say you to that?   
 DEREK JETER: I'm not a psychologist, but I've always been a believer, win or lose, it doesn't make a difference if it's 2-1 or 10-1. They have a lot of guys over there with experience. I'm pretty sure they'll put this game behind them. We have tomorrow off. We have to come ready to play. That's the bottom line. Like I said, I'm pretty sure they will.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Derek.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT