MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 21, 1998
Derek Jeter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about the guy that just left, Andy Pettitte?

DEREK JETER: Andy is a big-game pitcher, that's the bottom line. Every time you think
his back is against the wall, he comes back and gives a performance like this. He did it
in Texas, and again tonight. You can't say enough about him.

Q. Can you imagine another team playing with as much intensity as your team does?

DEREK JETER: I don't think so, we were 125 and 50, I don't think too many teams can say
that. We came to play every day, regardless of who we were playing. And we played with an
intensity level that I've never seen before.

Q. Can you talk about the chop hit you got that started off that run, and the little
hits you got through the game?

DEREK JETER: Well, obviously Kevin Brown is a great pitcher. With him you've got to try
to get on base anytime you can, whether it's a walk or an infield hit, who cares? No one
cares about the stats, here. If you get on base, anything can happen. And we were able to
capitalize on that.

Q. You alluded to winning 125 games this year, do you think that stamps you guys as the
greatest team in history?

DEREK JETER: I'm a little young to know about the teams back in the early 1900's, but
like I said before, we were 125 and 50, and there's not too many teams that can say that.
So I think we can argue about us being the best of all time.

Q. What does it mean to you to win two championships in three years?

DEREK JETER: I've been spoiled, I guess. My first year it seemed like everything
happened so quick, and before I knew it we were world champions. We lost last year, and
you get a chance to appreciate how difficult it is to get here. A lot of players go
throughout their careers and never get to a World Series, and I've won two in three years,
hopefully I can keep up the pace.

Q. Would you talk about the defensive play you made, where does that rank among your
defensive plays?

DEREK JETER: When you play in a World Series, in a playoff game, every play seems to
matter so much. I played with Ruben Rivera throughout the Minor Leagues, and you know how
fast he is, it's just a matter of catching it and trying to get rid of it as quick as you
can.

Q. Talked about players that play a whole career and not winning a World Series, you
look across the diamond and see Tony Gwynn, what do you think?

DEREK JETER: I'm glad we don't have to face him anymore. He is a threat every time up.
I don't think I've seen a better hitter. You can't say you want him to win, because he's
playing against us, but Tony Gwynn is a great player, he's going in the Hall of Fame. I
was a big fan growing up, I'm still a big fan of his. But that's a tough question, because
as long as we win -- I don't want to get beat, regardless of who we're playing, but Tony
Gwynn, is a tremendous player, I can't say enough about him.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT