MLB WORLD SERIES: PHILLIES v YANKEES
November 1, 2009
Hank Aaron
Derek Jeter
Doug Koshima
Allan H. "Bud" Selig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Thank you and welcome to the announcement of the winners of the 2009 Sharp Presents the Hank Aaron Award that recognizes the most outstanding offensive performer in each league as selected by fans through on-line voting at SharpMLB.com. We're going to try to keep this moving very quickly. 
 Let's introduce the dais right now, Commissioner of Baseball Bud Selig; Hank Aaron, Hall of Famer; Doug Koshima, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sharp Electronics Corporation and of course Derek Jeter of the New York Yankees on behalf of Major League Baseball. I'd also like to acknowledge Billye Aaron, wife of Hank Aaron, welcome. Judith Zeigler, Associate Vice President of Retail and Consumer Marketing, Sharp. I'd like now to introduce the Commissioner of Baseball, Bud Selig. He'll make an official announcement concerning Sharp Presents the Hank Aaron Award.

 COMMISSIONER ALLAN H. "BUD" SELIG: Thank you very much, and good evening, everybody. Thank you for coming. I also want to thank Sharp for its sponsorship of the Hank Aaron Award and its very strong relationship with Major League Baseball. We're very appreciative.
 This award, which recognizes the most outstanding offensive performance in each league was created in 1999 to honor the 25th anniversary of Hank Aaron breaking Babe Ruth's all-time home run record. This is the 11th year that Major League Baseball has paid tribute to Hank. 
 First, the National League winner of the Hank Aaron award is Albert Pujols of the St. Louis Cardinals. Albert had another truly remarkable season, leading the majors in home runs with a career high 47, runs scored, on-base percentage and slugging percentage. 
 Unfortunately Albert could not be with us today as he's recovering from elbow surgery performed last week. We congratulate Albert and wish him the best in his recovery. 
 As for the American League, as you can see, the winner is Derek Jeter of the New York Yankees. Derek had one of the best years of his really great career in 2009 hitting .334, 107 runs scored, 27 doubles, 18 home runs, 30 stolen bases and leading the Yankees all the way to the World Series. Congratulations, Derek, on a job well done. 
 (Applause.) 

 THE MODERATOR: We're privileged to be joined today by Hall of Famer Hank Aaron. I'd like to invite Mr. Aaron now to make a few comments. 

 HANK AARON: Thanks very much. Thank you, Doug, Commissioner, and I also want to thank Derek Jeter for being here this evening. This award demonstrates what an all-around ballplayer Derek had been for all these many years, and I just want to congratulate him on this award. This is the second time that he's won this, and I just want to say that you can also win it a third time, too, if you want to. But congratulations to you and your teammates, and may God bless you. 
 Thank you. 
 (Applause.)

THE MODERATOR: We're also honored to have with us Doug Koshima, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Sharp Electronics Corporation. Doug, would you like to say a few words, as well? 

 DOUG "DAISUKE" KOSHIMA: Thank you. Before I begin my comments, I'd like to say, as always, it is a privilege to be sharing the dais with Hank Aaron, a superstar athlete who exemplifies team work, sportsmanship and everything that has always been great about the game of baseball. 
 As an avid baseball fan, I can't think of anyone who could pay Sharp Electronics a greater compliment by allowing us to be associated with the award that bears his name. 
 We're also honored to be the official HDTV of Major League Baseball. This entire post-season proves just how exciting the sport of baseball truly is, and shows that if fans can't be at the game, there is simply no better way to watch it than in spectacular true high definition. (Laughter.) 
 The winner of this year's Sharp Presents the Hank Aaron Award will each receive a 65-inch AQUOS LCD TV, so when they are not on the field themselves, they will be able to enjoy the game as it was truly meant to be viewed. So I believe Albert is watching on HDTV. He has more than five. He's building his own audio and TV shop.
 This year Major League Baseball focused on the importance of going beyond and giving back to our communities and the world at large. It is fitting that our honorees, two individuals who are so dedicated to improving the lives of those around them, something to which Mr. Aaron has always been deeply committed. 
 As Commissioner Selig mentioned, Sharp Presents the Hank Aaron Award, honors the most outstanding offensive performer in each league during the course of the preceding season. What the Commissioner will share with you some of the specific accomplishments of some of this year's winners, I simply want to conclude my remarks tonight by saying on behalf of every team member in the Sharp family, congratulations to Albert, who's watching on TV, and Derek, and thank you to Major League Baseball, and most importantly, to Hank Aaron, for giving us the opportunity to be a part of this very special award. 
 Thank you very much. 
 (Applause.) 

 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Doug. Derek, a couple of quick words? 

 DEREK JETER: I just want to say, first of all, thank you for everyone that voted. This is an outstanding award. Any award that's named after Hank Aaron to me is very special, what he has represented, not only in his playing days but how he handled himself when he was playing off the field and to this day, I have the utmost respect for him. This is an award that means a lot to me.
 I thank everyone for coming here today. I thank Mr. Koshima for agreeing to outfit my entire house downtown with TVs (laughter), and thank you very much. 
 THE MODERATOR: Congratulations to Derek and Albert on this prestigious award. Thanks, everybody, for attending. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT