U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2007
Kristen Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We have with us the 2007 U.S. Girls' Junior champion Kristen Park.  Congratulations.  Can you tell us a little bit about how you feel right now?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  I'm tired, and I'm really happy.   
 THE MODERATOR:  When the match ended on the 15th hole, where this morning's round and yesterday afternoon's round you had hit it into the water hazard, did that cross into your mind at all?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah, I just kind of think that there was no hazard at all, and I just kind of hit it on the green, and that's it.   
  
  Q.  This morning a lot of bogeys, a lot of holes were pars, but you played pretty solid, shot about 2-under this afternoon.  Did you figure anything out, in your swing, in your putting stroke?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  I think in the morning I was too, like, tight, and I was just stiff.  I just kind of relaxed on the second 18.   
  
  Q.  Nerves or --   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah, I was really nervous because there were a lot of people watching.  Yeah, it was scary.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever played in front of a crowd of this many people before?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Not this many people.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised to have a lead like you did and to win by the margin that you did?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah, it's pretty surprising, but I worked hard before the season, and I was pretty confident with my swing and everything, so yeah.   
  
  Q.  You said yesterday that you and your mother talked about just being happy to get to match play.  That was a goal?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Now what are you thinking?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  I'm now happy that I can play with the girls that I play with now and that I can beat them any time.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk a little bit about last year, Jenny Shin, which you know her pretty well, a 13-year-old wins the Championship, this year a 14-year-old wins the Championship, a 14-year-old wins the Women's Amateur, a 12-year-old qualified for the Women's Open.  I mean, do you guys have any fear of playing up against older, more experienced players, or is the nature of the competition that you guys have now that you can compete against ladies that are older than you?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah, you just have to work hard.  Yeah, you get used to like playing with the older girls.  Yeah, I think like the younger girls have just as much talent as the older girls, so there's no fear.   
  
  Q.  This is your first match play tournament ever?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about what the rules official told you in your first match about conceding putts because you had never done that before?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah, I just talked with my coach over the phone, and he just kind of explained to me what match play was, and like he gave me tips.  So yeah.   
  
  Q.  Did you have trouble figuring out when to give somebody a putt?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah, I had never done it before, so I had no idea when to give it.   
  
  Q.  When did you talk to your coach?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  I talked to him before the tournament, and we talk every night.   
  
  Q.  Who is it?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  His name is George Pinnel.   
  
  Q.  How do you spell his last name?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  P-i-n-n-e-l.   
  
  Q.  And where is he out of?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  He's in California.   
  
  Q.  Is he out of a club or --   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Driving range.   
  
  Q.  Buena Park?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  You just started playing at 10?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  How did you get started?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Well, I was actually in tennis, and then my grandpa got me into golf.  He just wanted me to try it, and I liked it, so I thought I'd stick with it.   
  
  Q.  When did you start taking it seriously, thinking you could compete at this level?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  When I was 11 I competed in like the nearby tournaments, like in California, and I was doing pretty well so I thought I could do it.  That's really when I got serious.   
  
  Q.  When was the first time you ever went out of state or played a major golf event?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Major?  Probably last year at the McDonald's.  I played at the McDonald's.   
  
  Q.  How did you do?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  I didn't do too well.  It was my first time, so I didn't really know like the feel.   
  
  Q.  You've really come on in just the last year.   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Not doing well at the McDonald's last year to this year, you had two Top 5s at invitationals and then you win the biggest girls' championship in the country?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah, I think in March I won a tournament, and the field was pretty strong.  I think that was like a turning point.   
  
  Q.  That was in Fort Worth?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Fort Worth.   
  
  Q.  Who was your caddie this week?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  She's my best friend from school.  Her name is Erin Evans.   
  
  Q.  She helped you a lot out there this week?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah, she helped me stay calm.   
  
  Q.  What did you guys talk about?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Random things.  I don't know, we were just talking about random things.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Well, we're going to different high schools, but our junior high was St. Irenaeus Parish School.  It was elementary and junior high.   
  
  Q.  Next year you will be, what, a sophomore -- a freshman.  What school?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Sunny Hills High School.   
  
  Q.  On the 8th hole, talk about that, being five yards out.   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Oh, in the afternoon?  I just played it as a par 5, so I just wanted to make birdie on a par 5.   
  
  Q.  You weren't in the greatest shape.   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah.  I just can't really think of that as your third shot on a par 4.  You kind of have to like think of that as your third shot on a par 5.  Yeah, just try to make birdie.   
  
  Q.  What's the key to hitting a shot out of that kind of rough that short?  What are you thinking at that point, trying to get it six, eight feet?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah, I wasn't really trying to get it real close.  I just wanted to get it in a spot where it was something I could make.   
  
  Q.  Talk about going from last year's McDonald's to this year, what's been the biggest transformation in your game?  What's really improved to allow yourself to compete at this level?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  It's actually my mental game that I am improving on.  I have pretty good course management now, and my coach helps me with management on the course.  Yeah, I just mentally am getting stronger.   
  
  Q.  She missed a lot of fairways on the back nine.  Could you tell that was kind of wearing her down a little bit, you were hitting a lot of fairways and greens?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  Yeah, I think she kind of like lost something in your swing during the back nine.  But yeah, she's a good player.   
  
  Q.  How long has your family been in California?   
 KRISTEN PARK:  My parents were born in Korea but I was born in California.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you very much, and congratulations again.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT