WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL B: MEXICO CITY
March 8, 2009
Andrew Graham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Speak a little bit about this pitching staff. You've seen them all. What are your thoughts on them and specifically Craig Anderson?  
 ANDREW GRAHAM: Overall with the pitches, in 2006 it's basically the same arms. We've got more experienced guys coming in, so they're at a higher level now playing. Back then they were A-Ball guys, now they have AA or AAA experience. If they pitch to their strength and keep the ball down, we'll have a pretty good pitching staff. With Craig Anderson, he's always been a quality starter. He's not an overpowering pitcher. He's played a lot of years in AAA ball, and when his stuff is working and he keeps the ball down and pitches to his strength, he has great success.  
  
  Q. Do you think he may have gotten the nod over, say, other experienced pitchers like Moss or Blackley because of the altitude, keeping the ball down?  
 ANDREW GRAHAM: I think that might be the case. Also, he carries a lot more off-speed -- hits his spots. He throws better off-speed. The other guys have great off-speed, too, but he hits his spots and he's also a small pitcher. Maybe that's why they've gone with Craig Anderson rather than try to power these guys.  
  
  Q. This is your second World Baseball Classic. Even though you haven't played a game yet, what's the difference so far?  
 ANDREW GRAHAM: Difference, obviously we're in a different country. We're in America where most of us play all year long, so we're all used to it. The crowd is going to be crazy tonight, but it looks like it's a lot bigger event than in 2006 since that was the first one. It's going to be exciting.  
  
  Q. Has international competition personally helped you get better as a player?  
 ANDREW GRAHAM: As you get up to the Minor Leagues, different levels, it has because every game you come out here it's a do-or-die game. It's not like you've got a season of 144, 100-plus games where if you lose one you go get 'em tomorrow. It's all about the game at hand, and you have to get a W straight away rather than relying on the next game.  
  
  Q. The catcher is always kind of the captain of the infield really the whole game. What do you feel that you bring to Team Australia?  
 ANDREW GRAHAM: Team Australia? I've always been good at controlling the staff. If they rush too much, I slow them down. If they're getting a little nervous, I calm them down, just try to have fun with them and hopefully put the right fingers down and call the right pitches and we execute our pitches and things will come our way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT