NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 15, 2008
Jeff Quinney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How did it go out there today?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Pretty good.  We definitely lucked out with the draw.  You know, the wind was blowing out a little bit, and by the time we got to the turn, it just quit.  The whole back nine was dead calm, and you know, very fortunate to do that, and just took advantage of the benign conditions.  And other than bogeying the last hole, felt pretty good.   
  
  Q.  You had a real hot start last year.  What are you doing to sustain that looking forward?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  I just came out with the mind-set that the West Coast is where I want to take advantage.  I felt very comfortable on all the courses, liked all the courses, just fits my eye and playing on this -- growing up on the West Coast, the poa annua doesn't really bug me.  I'm used to those conditions.  And just being close to home, I always seem to play well.   
  
  Q.  What about this course, specifically?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  I just like the way it's playing.  I definitely like the way of it's firm and you really have got to place your irons accurately.  You know, I wouldn't say there's a lot of hazards or OB that's in play too much.  You can kind of get up there and rip your driver and sometimes that's my downfall is one errant tee shot.   
 But I just love Riviera.  Just everything about it, I feel very comfortable at.   
  
  Q.  How different is it playing when it's calm like this, as opposed to yesterday afternoon?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  I think it's everything.  You know, yesterday morning, I think we escaped that a little bit, too, and it just happens week-to-week like that.  Sometimes you get on the bad draw.   
 When you definitely have some elevation changes and the greens are so firm; there's so many factors to consider, and that way, you can kind of just -- the wind is not going to touch the fall and you can just play for the firm green and roll out.   
  
  Q.  Four shots behind Phil with two rounds left to play, how much are you thinking about who is in the lead, or is it more still two rounds to play and just do your own thing?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  I definitely looked at the leaderboard coming down the last nine holes, and I was right up there and saw that Phil was up there.  I don't know if I'm in the final group or not tomorrow.  I'm looking forward to that if I am.  He's a fellow Sun Devil, and my first time to play with him competitively.  We've played some golf back in college and in some practice rounds.  You know, he's a top player in the world, and looking forward to the challenge.   
  
  Q.  How do you keep yourself from trying to go out tomorrow and try to get all four shots back right off in the first hole?  How do you pace yourself?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  I think you just know that this golf course is not that type of golf course.  You don't have to shoot 8-under on Saturday.  Last year I think I shot 4-under and moved up the leaderboard.  If you get firm greens and the wind blows a little bit, a couple under can move you a long way.   
  
  Q.  Everybody talks about how much they love this course and it's a classic course and you have to move the ball.  Do you feel like you wish you played more courses like this on TOUR week-to-week like Riviera?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  I would love to.  It seems like everything they add new is kind of that modern resort-style, and this is just traditional, easy-walking course.  And definitely this fits my eye a lot more.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about the new title sponsor, they are trying to do things, sending flowers to wives and girlfriends, and the Wii.   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  That's a big perk.  I think they raised the purse by a million dollars, and I think every tournament is kind of stepping up.   
 I'm very impressed.  I definitely took advantage of the flower-ending.  You know, those little things make a lot of difference in the players' mind.  It's silly, we are playing for a lot of money, but those added things can draw you back.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT