THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2007
Jeff Quinney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE:  Jeff, thanks for joining us.  Congratulations on a great day today, 64.  Just a couple general comments to get things going and we'll take a few questions and go from there.   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Yeah, it was just a great day.  I just kind of got in the zone early on, made some early birdies and was really comfortable out there.  I had a good range session and was just really striking the ball pretty well the first two days, and everything just kind of clicked.  I took advantage at the par 5s, was able to make some easy birdies and hit a few close shots in there where I didn't have to make a ton of putts, I could just make the putts you were supposed to make to make a few birdies.   
  
  Q.  You've given me hope.  You warmed up for this performance by not breaking 80 twice last week.   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Yeah, it's a funny thing because I didn't feel much better on Monday or Tuesday out here.  I've been really struggling with my timing and swing and talking with my coach and sending the videos back home and just kind of said, the heck with it, just really go out there and just work on tempo and just things that have got me here, rather than trying to get something technical where I've got the perfect swing.  Just get back to rhythm and positive thinking, and amazing how it just turned around real quick.   
  
  Q.  So you shoot video and email it back, he looks at it and gives you feedback?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Yeah, Mike LaBauve back in Phoenix, we've worked together for a couple years now.  I know what it is and it's just a matter of fixing it.  It's nothing new, it's just the old habits I get into.  I'm not sure I'm swinging real perfect right now, but as long as I trust it and my tempo is good, then everything is fine.   
  
  Q.  What's the zone feel like for you when you say zone?  What's it feel like?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  I think you're just at ease.  You just don't really notice the surroundings, you just kind of are in another place.  You don't think about score.  At times, I was like, I don't know how many under par I'm at right now.  I'm just going to the next shot, going to the next hole.  I just basically know I'm going to hit a good shot.  I'm not looking where the trouble is, I'm just worried about what can go the right way.   
  
  Q.  How often does that mood strike?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Not enough (laughter), but I've been there a few times this year and many times over my career and able to recognize it, and I was able to really stay calm.  You know, sometimes you get in that zone and you get a round going, then sometimes you come out of it or get anxious and make a stupid bogey.  Just through the experience I've had all year, I'm able to stay there, stay calm, get to 17, not panic and just finish the round.   
  
  Q.  With your score, did you leave any shots out there?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  On 7 I stuffed it to about six feet, hit a great putt and lipped right back at me.  I didn't hole a lot of putts.  I had a great look on 12 that almost went in the hole there.  Obviously with a hole-out bunker shot you kind of take one back, and I made along putt on 9 to get to one back.  At 64 you kind of look back and didn't leave too many out there.   
  
  Q.  Are you getting more comfortable with each passing day with the golf course?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Yeah, it's my first time here.  I got here on Sunday because I missed the cut at Wachovia and was able to get plenty of practice rounds.  I was able to do more detail than I did before.  Every time I go, I know which way the wind is going, which clubs to hit off the tee and where not to hit it.   
  
  Q.  You had a piece of the lead on the West Coast, you played with Tiger on the weekend at the Buick.  What did that kind of do for you between the ears, confidence?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  It only gave me more confidence because I shot 70 with Tiger; I shot 6-under at the FBR.  Even though I didn't win, I shot some good rounds.  I kind of got caught from behind.  I've really drawn back on those tournaments, gotten back into that one.  And the season kind of peaks and valleys, and I'm hoping this is the peak and kind of ride out my confidence and just hopefully take advantage.   
  
  Q.  What are you going to do the rest of the afternoon and this evening?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Just kind of go through the same routine, go out, hit some balls, go just out to the range, do my normal routine, chips and putts.  I think we're going to have plenty of rest because I don't think we tee off until 2:00 o'clock tomorrow.  I'll get some rest.  My family is in town, my parents and my brother, so maybe go out and have dinner with them.   
  
  Q.  With the numbers that you had last week, did you come through with any sort of sense of desperation?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Yeah, kind of.  I'm like, this is not a course you really want to come in struggling in your game because Pete Dye is known for just intimidating golf shots.  You know, golf is just a crazy game how it can turn so fast.  I knew I wasn't far off, but at Wachovia the greens were so hard and the rough was so bad, you just got penalized.   
 Here, the rough, you can get away with a miss or two and be able to hit the green.   
  
  Q.  Your decision to just hit it and wing it and play like you said and not the technical stuff, is that a desperation move?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  I wouldn't say it's a desperation move.  I think everyone gets guilty of that sometimes where you're trying to make the perfect swing and you're trying to think about too much.  You're still thinking about technical things, just maybe a little bit more simple and maybe just a little bit of self-talk to myself that I'm good enough to be here and just trust it.   
  
  Q.  I'm trying to remember, I can't remember the specifics, but it seems like you've got a relationship with Phil Mickelson that I've read about at some point, playing together here, there.  How well do you know each other?   
 JEFF QUINNEY:  I wouldn't say real well.  Obviously we're both ASU alums, and we played a practice round at the U.S. Open when I was an amateur, we played a few times in Phoenix when he used to live there.  Obviously he lives in San Diego so I don't see him too much.  If he walks by I'll say hi.  He gave me a call after the FBR to congratulate me and everything.  Once you're part of the alumni, you're part of a small group.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Jeff, thanks for coming in.  Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT