BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 20, 2007
Jeff Quinney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMCYZ: We welcome Jeff Quinney, 6-under par 66 today over at La Quinta. 
 You're 8-under through 13, and then a couple of bogeys towards the end.  Just talk a little bit about your round if you would, Jeff, and we'll open it up for some questions. 
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Yeah, got off to a good start.  I birdied the first hole.  The greens are just in great shape over here at La Quinta, so I was finally able to look at some putts and feel pretty confident with the putter.  But two eagles on the day, two par 5s, and 5-under on the front, just got off to a quick start, was just in a good rhythm all day. 
 JOE CHEMCYZ:  A couple bogeys on the end, 16 and 18. 
 JEFF QUINNEY:  16, I hit it in the trees.  I actually hit a decent shot, hit it in the bunker, didn't get up-and-down green-side. 
 18, I just hit a poor tee shot to the right, had to hook it around the tree, didn't hook it quite enough.  Actually scared the ball, hit out-of-bounds and it hit the cart path and I thought it went in the grandstands and actually got lucky, had a decent chance for an up-and-down, was kind of short-sighted, missed a 15-footer for par. 
 I had a lot of holes today without any bogeys, so probably the longest stretch I've ever had without a bogey. 

 Q.  Talk a little about the conditions today, obviously yesterday talking about how cold it was, what was it like at La Quinta today? 
 JEFF QUINNEY:  It was great.  A little bit of breeze, maybe a club wind at times, but compared to yesterday, it was competely different.  I was hoping to kind of grind out yesterday, 3-under at Bermuda Dunes in those conditions and keep myself in it. 
 Then got ideal conditions today with good greens and was able to get it to 8-under.  Unfortunate to give a couple back.  I haven't really looked at the leaderboard, obviously I have a chance for tomorrow. 

 Q.  You're cruising along, 8-under for the round, is it hard to have the bogeys at the end, not leave a sour taste? 
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Oh, it's disappointing, disappointed with the tee shot I hit.  I hit a great tee shot and put myself in situations -- all day long I've been hitting a lot of fairways and took all of the risk out of everything and didn't have to grind for it.  I don't know if I was tired or it was a long day, we waited quite a bit on the back nine, maybe just got a little bit fatigued. 

 Q.  Have you been watching the leaderboard much at all the first few days, and today were you watching more than earlier? 
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Yeah I watch every day, check out how everyone is doing, checking out the other courses.  I looked at the leaderboard over here, only three or four guys up in the 20s.  I saw my name up near the top.  Actually felt pretty comfortable because I was feeling really good with my game, and unfortunately I had a couple bogeys, but also draw a lot of positives out of the day. 

 Q.  What do you think it's going to take tomorrow to climb even higher? 
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Gosh, you've got to get to 25 probably.  I don't know what the forecast is.  I guess I'm at 16, so I'm going to have to have a miracle day tomorrow. 

 Q.  After four days with the amateurs, are you looking forward to getting back with your fellow PGA guys, or how do you feel about going into the last day? 
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Yeah, it was fun, had a lot of good guys to play with.  In a way, I was in such a zone there for a while, I was just ready to go out and hit that next shot.  And we had two or three groups on and knocked me out of my rhythm.  I was trying to stay patient and just kind of regroup and just not let it bug me.  Maybe just got a little tired. 

 Q.  There's a few guys up on the leaderboard that have not won and I just wonder if you take some confidence in that, that you're among some guys that are going to be in the same position that you are tomorrow? 
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Yeah, I have everything to gain and nothing to lose.  It's pretty much my first time being somewhat near the lead on the PGA TOUR.  Obviously I was there a lot last year on the Nationwide Tour, which is totally different.  But hopefully I can just draw on the experiences that I had last year and just play good. 

 Q.  Obviously it's hard to tell until you go through, but how different do you think it will be tomorrow being up near the lead compared to last year on the Nationwide Tour? 
 JEFF QUINNEY:  It's going to be definitely different.  But that's a battle I'm going to have mentally to not put that much pressure on myself and just play the game I've been playing. 
 I'm just proud of the fact that I am in contention because the more times you get there, the more comfortable you get, because I know that's the way it was with the Nationwide Tour.  You don't know what it's like until you get there. 
 JOE CHEMCYZ:  Jeff, could you just go over the score card a little bit in detail for us, starting with the birdie on 1. 
 JEFF QUINNEY:  Trying to figure out the holes, let me go through my yardage book.  1 was a birdie, just a driver, wedge, six feet. 
 The eagle at 5, I hit a great 3-iron there about 12 feet.  Basically my only realistic eagle chance of the week.  These other guys making eagles, it was nice to knock one in finally. 
 Then on 6, I had a good up-and-down out of the bunker, green-side bunker.  I birdied there. 
 8, I kind of hit in the fairway bunker, hit a pretty good fairway shot to the green about 20 feet, actually probably the longest putt I made all week, a 20-footer there. 
 10, I hit a good drive, a 9-iron to about ten feet straight up the hill and made that. 
 Missed a 20-footer on 11. 
 Good look on 12, missed that one. 
 15 was driver and a 3-wood, kind of in between 3-wood and hybrid and hit it to about ten feet and made that for eagle. 
 That's all my birdies I guess. 
 JOE CHEMCYZ:  Jeff, thanks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT