TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2009
Leif Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Has to be the first time in this kind of situation on a Saturday, you had a really nice today. Congratulations. 
 LEIF OLSON: Thank you. Yeah, you know, I played solid. I don't think my putting was that great today. 
 It has been, but the weather was just awesome out there. The greens were so soft, though. Around the greens, like chipping it was pretty easy, because you didn't have to worry about it. You know, you could stop anything pretty much. But yeah, it was really nice today.

 Q. You had the three-putt bogey at 2, and I thought, ah-oh, here we go. There's a problem here, but then you bounced right back. 
 LEIF OLSON: Yeah. That was kind of weird because it was one of those putts you're over the putt and you're like, I really have no idea how fast this is. 

 Q. It was early in the round. I mean you guys don't know how fast it's going to be.
 LEIF OLSON: It was like a little downhill at end, and I was like over the ball and I'm like, I have no idea how fast this is, and I just hit it way too easy. And then after that I started making better strokes at it, but yeah, it was just a really bad putt, but that happens. 

 Q. Matt Kuchar, a nice guy to be around with on a Saturday in this kind of weather. You guys looked like you were having a great time out there. 
 LEIF OLSON: Yeah, we did. Matt's a great guy, great player, really solid. It's been a while since I've played with Matt, back probably around college. 
 But yeah, we had a good time out there today, and I think we fed off each other a little bit. We never really made any mistakes or in the sense of being in the hazards or having to take relief. It was just pretty much fairway-greens for us, and Matt made a few more putts than I did. But I played well, so you know, hopefully my playing will be better tomorrow.

 Q. And now you're right there, headed to Sunday, right where you want to be. 
 LEIF OLSON: That's exactly. All I want to do is have a chance Sunday, and I'm one off, and that's all you can ask for. If I could say at the beginning of the week, if I could have a chance on Sunday, I would be happy I will say yes, and that's where I am now, so I'm happy. 

 Q. Well, stay happy, and good luck to you tomorrow. 
 LEIF OLSON: All right. Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT