TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2009
Leif Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tied for second at the halfway point, you have to really be pleased with that, especially in these conditions.  
 LEIF OLSON: Yeah. I am. I just want to come out and try to shoot 2 or 3-under today was my goal, but it just got really nasty on the Back 9.   
 The front was all right, it was a little windy, but when I had four or five holes left, it was just nasty. And then we were just trying to get it in. But yeah, I am very happy with how I played, especially the last few holes. I didn't make any mistakes and I actually birdied 8. So it worked out well.  
  
  Q. Is it kind of a funny way, because you're thinking about surviving this weather and keeping dry. Does it almost take the mind that can sometimes get overactive during a round out of play?  
 LEIF OLSON: That is true, yeah. Sometimes when you have to use your imagination a little bit, stop thinking so much, in playing with the wind and playing with the rain, you just have to react, it helps, for some people. I think maybe it helps for me.   
 But yeah, definitely in conditions like this, you can't be -- you gotta just go out there, because everything's different with the yardages and stuff. In some ways it's good, but I would prefer not to play in these conditions.   
  
  Q. The planned strategy for the weekend, especially given it is the Fall Series and the Money List and that kind of stuff has to kind of creep in.   
 LEIF OLSON: Yeah, it does. I mean I'm playing pretty well. I feel good with my game. I'm pretty confident in myself, but I know that I have to play really well the last couple days, but you know, I think like any guy out here, I think I can -- you know. It's nothing -- I'm not thinking right now about the Money List. I think I just want to be in the hunt Sunday if I can and see what I can do. But you know, the Fall Series this isn't the only event, so I have an opportunity here, so I'm not giving up on it.   
  
  Q. Thank you. What are you doing differently now than what you haven't been doing?  
 LEIF OLSON: Right. Well, I'm playing better. When I got out, you know, out of Q-School, I -- you know, I mean I know how to play tournament golf. You know, I've played all my life, but being away from real tournament golf and then going to this level, completely different jump for me, so it was more I was just so nervous.   
 I remember in Hawaii I hit 2-iron off the 10th hole and I almost thought it would be right. I mean you just don't do that with a 2-iron.   
  
  Q. Is it something that you're doing now that you were doing in June because I mean you made three cuts in June. Is it a mini roll kind of thing?  
 LEIF OLSON: I'm playing better now than I was in June. I think I'm just continually striking it better. And the entire thing is I wasn't playing very good a few games, not playing as well in June. And I'm playing better now and not throwing strokes away. And when you make 8 to 10-footers, that just makes it better. That's really been it this week, I think.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT