U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2014
Marie Bouzkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  M. BOUZKOVA/A. Kalinina6-4, 6-1THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Congratulations.  How does it feel to be a Grand Slam champion?MARIE BOUZKOVA: Thank you.  Oh, it's amazing.  Just I didn't expect it at all.  Just to be out there today and play my game and win, it's incredible.Q. It was a tough match all the way through.  You were down early on.MARIE BOUZKOVA: Yeah, I mean, my beginning was a bit slower than I, you know, wanted to, but I think I catch up during the whole match. I think in the crucial moments I was stable and I kept my game and my mind straight what to do.Q. How do you explain how this week has come about?MARIE BOUZKOVA: Well, this week was incredible for me.  I mean, just every day, you know, be out there and play my game win, and to be here on a Grand Slam until Sunday, it's incredible.Q. Will you still continue to play juniors after this or move more into the pros?MARIE BOUZKOVA: Well, I played a couple of tournaments on pros.  I will keep playing maybe Eddie Herr or Orange Bowl.  I will see next year if I still play juniors, but I think I will focus on pros now.Q. You had a couple of chances to serve out the match and didn't take them.  You had two match points in the one.  How did you recover mentally after you didn't win those two games?MARIE BOUZKOVA: Well, I was extremely nervous on those match points, you know.  Like to serve for a championship point in US Open in finals, I was shaky.  But then I needed to recover, you know.  I knew that I was playing well and I didn't do many mistakes and I was playing my game. I just needed to focus and keep my game.Q. She said that she didn't feel that she was playing very well.  Did you feel that she was maybe playing a little bit below her...MARIE BOUZKOVA: No, I don't think so.  I mean, I think she played really well.  I mean, I know her and I know how she played.  I think today she played well.Q. How will you celebrate tonight?MARIE BOUZKOVA: I don't know yet.  I haven't thought of it yet, but I think we will go to the Fifth Avenue.  Maybe go shopping.  (Smiling.)Q. You're the first girl from the Czech Republic to reach the finals since Strycova.  Could you talk about that?  You had said she's one of your idols.MARIE BOUZKOVA: Yes, to be the first ever to win US Open juniors, it's amazing feeling, you know.  No one ever in history won that.  Yeah, it's great.Q. Have you had a lot of support from home and from family and friends?MARIE BOUZKOVA: Yes, I did.Q. Messages?MARIE BOUZKOVA: My whole family and friends around me.  I had like 50 messages now I saw.  I need to answer all of them.Q. It's been a very good summer for Czech women's tennis.  Has that surprised you or motivated you or, I mean, what do you take from that, knowing that, you know, so many people, women from your country are doing well?MARIE BOUZKOVA: Yeah, I mean, Czech Republic has, you know, top players.  Yeah, we're a small country.  We have so many good players.  It just really gives me motivation also that I can be good. I look up to Petra Kvitova and Tomas Berdych.  It gives me confidence.Q. Do you think you might get a message of congratulations from them?MARIE BOUZKOVA: I don't think so, but maybe they have heard of it that I won it, so...Q. You lost to her early in the tournament here a year ago.  What do you think has changed for you the most since then to be here in the final this year?MARIE BOUZKOVA: I think this year I was better prepared than last year.  I mean, last year I played her in the first round, so my first rounds are like I'm not that like warmed up and not, you know, get my game head into game.  But since it was final today I think I was really, you know, focused what to do and I knew what to expect.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT