NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
May 31, 2011
Dirk Nowitzki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Dirk, I don't want to say it was the same thing it was in 2006, but when you saw Dwyane struggle early, did you figure it was a matter of time until he was going to warm up? And when you saw him warm up, did it sort of rekindle any thoughts of this is what he can do? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: You know, they have two very good closers, two of the best in the game. Dwyane made some big shots there in the fourth quarter, and LeBron has been shooting the ball really well this playoffs. Yeah, he had some open looks and really made some tough shots. 
 But what really killed us I thought was the offensive rebounds. Obviously those two guys are going to have you scramble some defensively. And we were just out of position sometimes to box out and get the rebounds. So even when we got the stop, we failed -- because we were scrambling so much, failed to get the rebounds. That was a tough break there. Especially in the fourth quarter. They had two or three at one time in a row. And that really hurt us. 

 Q. Dirk, can you just talk about your play offensively tonight. And what kind of challenge does Udonis Haslem give defensively? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Well, you know, I think both teams didn't have a great offensive night. Both teams shot around 37, 38%. So it wasn't really an offensive battle out there. So I mean, both teams are good defensively. That's why both teams are in The Finals. Both teams scramble and they're able to flood the strong side and make the other team play on the weak side. 
 I had my opportunities there. I had some good drives there in the first half. I just got to finish. I missed a righty lay-up. I missed a lefty lay-up that rolled around. I have to keep attacking and take my opportunities when they're there. We all know Haslem is a good defender at the four position. Probably one of the best in this league. I still got my opportunities there when I put the ball on the floor. I just got to finish. 

 Q. Dirk, it's just one game, of course, but so much goes into the first game of any series. Is there any concern about any emotional letdown, any emotional hangover going into Thursday now? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I mean, not really. We're a veteran team. So you can't get down with a loss. You have to come back strong on Thursday. I said it a couple of times this playoff run, if you're the road team, you're happy with the split. So we got another opportunity on Thursday to go get one. Obviously, we don't want to go home being down 0-2, which is a hole. So we would love to go home with a split. 
 So we just have to be a little sharper there on Thursday in some areas. Didn't think we executed great there in the fourth quarter. And like I said, gave up too many offensive rebounds when it counted. 

 Q. Dirk, how is your left hand? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Well, it was just a freaky play. Bosh got a bounce pass and I stepped in. I thought I stripped him clean, and then I kind of looked down and I couldn't straighten my finger out anymore. So I tore a tendon in there. I guess it will be all right. I have to wear a splint probably for the rest of the playoffs, for a couple of weeks. But it will be all right. It's on my left hand, so I'll be all right for Thursday. 

 Q. Dirk, you guys have really relied on your depth all season long. Today the bench got outperformed. How much are you going to need them in the series especially against a team with three superstars? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, I didn't think -- I actually thought coming in that our bench was going to be a key for us. They did a good job there on Jet. I think Jet did a good job in the first half. Got to some areas where he was knocking down some shots, and second half they didn't really let him get an open look. LeBron was on him some in the fourth quarter, to go big on him, and I guess bother his shot. And J.J.'s got to take his time when he gets in there. Obviously they are collapsing and trying to block his shot. I thought he was rushing some of his shots in the paint. And we just got to relax and, if it's not there, swing the ball to the weak side, because the shot is going to be there. 
 I thought we rushed some shots there in the paint. We just got to finish. 

 Q. Can you clarify the injury to your finger? Did you have an X-ray or something? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I already had an X-ray. I guess it's not broken, but there's a torn tendon in my finger. If you want more info, you have to talk to my trainer or doc. 

 Q. Dirk, all playoffs long you guys have been really the best passing team in the league. You didn't swing the ball very much in this game. Didn't make the extra pass. Was that them or was that something you guys were doing? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Well, I think, like I mentioned there, they're very good defensively. What makes them so good, they're so athletic on the wing that even when we swung it sometimes, they're able to cover a lot of ground, LeBron and Wade, and still run out at our shooters or contest the shots on the weak side. So you have to give them credit. They're long and active on the perimeter, and when we do get the opportunity to swing the ball, swing, swing, we have to knock the shots down. That's what it comes down to. They're very active and collapse in the paint. When we do have some looks, we have to knock them down. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Dirk. 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT