NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v MAVERICKS
May 22, 2011
Dirk Nowitzki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DIRK NOWITZKI: In the second half there we got away a little bit. They got some transition baskets, they got to the basket some and Westbrook put his head down. We've got to be even sharper tomorrow and stay sharper for longer periods of time. But I liked our defensive effort. I liked what Matrix brought to the game, loved Stevenson's toughness. Those two guys really made a difference for us early on.

 Q. Why are you guys such a great road team? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I don't know. Actually the last couple years we've always been one of the best road teams. Last year I think we were the best road team in the whole league. I don't know, it's just we're a bunch of veterans that have been together for a while now and like to play off each other. When we step our defense up in the last couple minutes we get good stops, and that's how you win ballgames on the road. On the offensive end we have a lot of weapons and a lot of guys that can make big plays.

 Q. How encouraging is it when you and Jet have an off-night and you still get a victory?
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, that's great. That shows that our defense really won us the game, really got us a big lead, and then in the second half they kind of chipped away and chipped away, but we still stayed solid enough, we got enough plays on offense where they only cut it to six or eight and we didn't get too rattled and we kept executing, kept rebounding. That was big. And finally had some shots go down. I made some big shots, Jet made a big shot on the baseline there. So I remember us making timely shots yesterday. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Me personally? Well, they were physical. I was trying to drive. There was really not much being called for me, so I adjusted a little bit and had to shoot off the dribble, and I did all the regular passing. That worked, and one or two dribbling up was there, and I was able to make some shots.

 Q. The defensive intensity, is that almost a mindset for you guys?
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, we just need to attack more the way they did in us in Game 2. They made everything hard and they really got into us and stole a game at our place. We have to do a little more of the same and come out swinging, and that's what we did. Our defense was phenomenal, especially in the first quarter setting the tone, and that carried us through the game.

 Q. Matrix really responded to the challenge. 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, he was great. That's what he's been doing for us since we got him. He's one of our best perimeter defenders. On the offensive end he can hurt you. He's a slasher, he's good in the paint, he can post up. He really went back a couple years and really played a great game this year for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT