NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Dirk Nowitzki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DIRK NOWITZKI: My first one I'll never forget was in Philly, my first time playing, and that will always be something special. 
 Then it gets a little more routine and you know the guys better a little bit, and you know the whole hype and the Shooting Stars and Slam Dunk Contest. 

 Q. Have you had younger guys come up to you and ask how to handle it?
 DIRK NOWITZKI: No, I probably won't give them any good advice. First time is all about soaking it in and taking everything in, get to know the guys, enjoying the hype around it. 

 Q. We're in Hollywood, if we're making the movie of your life, who would you like to portray you? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Woody Harrelson. 

 Q. Do you think Mark Cuban should guest star in Entourage next season?
 DIRK NOWITZKI: He was in there already, right? I didn't see it yet. I love Entourage, but I haven't seen the show where he's on. 
 Yeah, he loves that stuff. He's all about that kind of stuff, so I'm sure he'll be back at some point.

 Q. You don't have any teammates this year, who are you going to hang out with this weekend? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Some friends, have a good time and enjoy the show. I'm not that big time so, I try to stay under the radar and have a good time. 

 Q. Looking ahead --
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I'm sure they are going to look but for the first time, we are still healthy and we feel like we are playing well. We are veterans and we are experienced. So I think we can take anybody on. We've beat some good teams that are out there, so we are not afraid of anybody. 

 Q. Do you feel in a different space in this team than you have in the last couple years?
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Well, it's kind of hard to see how good we really can be, when Roddy was out the whole season with a stress fracture and now unfortunately Caron is out. I think it's a great sign that Stojakovic is starting to play better and starting to spread the floor out for us. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT