NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2010
Becky Hammon
Dirk Nowitzki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Does this championship make spares up for 2006 in any way?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: What happened in 2006? No, I mean, it's obviously a great, fun way to start off the weekend for me. I have a lot of people here, a lot of friends have fallen me and we brought it home. We brought the crown to Dallas, so it was great.   
  
  Q. The trade become official today, was announced by the team; can you talk about your new teammates and what this does for the Mavericks?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I'm only talking shooting stars today.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about what it means to you and to this city to have the All-Star Game and then to go out and take care of what you did tonight?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Well, I think the whole weekend is special, because you know, Dallas can showcase what we have, and the new stadium, I think it's going to be amazing out there. We are all part of history, the biggest game ever.   
 Yeah, it's going to be exciting, an exciting weekend and yeah, that's definitely the way to start it off.   
  
  Q. Kenny said he was talking to Webber and Steve Smith and telling them if they missed the first one, it's going to be hard; was it weird for you being out there all by yourself, no teammates, just shooting?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: No, it was great. He wanted to hit, right? Actually I told Becky she's the point guard and she just has to lead us off and she did a great job, so we just followed everybody through.  
  
  Q. You've now won a Shooting Stars title with three 7-footers, how would you rank them?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, I want to hear that.   
 BECKY HAMMON: Well, I felt pretty good coming into tonight with Dirk.   
 So I've got to give the 'Shooting' props to him. It's an easy decision, but don't make me go sour on my boys from San Antonio.   
  
  Q. I was going to say, are you worried about repercussion in San Antonio for teaming up with a maverick and such?   
 BECKY HAMMON: Yeah, I heard they are a little bit upset about that. But we won, so nobody can complain when we win.   
 I'll tell you, I always brag about San Antonio guys being nice guys, Tim Duncan and David Robinson being very nice, and Dirk is just as good a gentleman. So he's been very nice.   
  
  Q. Were you distracted by Becky's good looks?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yes! (Laughter)  
  
  Q. You have won the Shooting Stars and the Three-Point Contest now. What can we expect next? Skills Challenge?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Actually last year I wanted to go for the whole Saturday night, do everything, Slam Dunk. I told the guys I was going to win every event: Slam Dunk, Three-Point, Skills and Shootout. So we'll see what happens next year. Actually a little disappointed, I wanted to win the Three-Point Contest obviously here at home, but maybe they didn't invite me, so there you go.   
  
  Q. For each of you, tomorrow the game is going to be played in front of about 90,000 people give or take a few. What's the largest crowd you've ever played in?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I mean, 20, I guess, 21, is the largest. It's going to be insane. I haven't even been out there in the stadium yet, I haven't even made it to a Cowboys game. I'm going to be as excited as everybody else to be a part of history. Now it's going to be insane.   
 BECKY HAMMON: Just the same, 20,000. There's not any bigger arenas that I know of. Maybe 25 is the biggest. Yeah, it should be exciting. You hear about it, you see it on TV, so it will be nice to see it live.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT