NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Dirk Nowitzki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No microphone.)
DIRK NOWITZKI:   I think that's the challenge with this team.   I think that offensively we'll be fine.   I think if we defend and rebound, we will put ourselves in a great chance to win.   And if we don't, we can pretty much lose to anybody. 

Q.   I know Monta is a good player, but are you surprised that he's been this good for you guys?
DIRK NOWITZKI:   He matches well with what we needed.   He's a really explosive guy.   He gets to the paint at will and really makes defenses collapse.   And that makes the game easier for me, for our shooters, because he's so good at getting in the lane and creating stuff for himself and for his teammates. 
So I knew he was a great scorer.   I didn't think he was that good of a playmaker.   The way he gets in there, gets to the foul line.   He got to the foul line in Indy in the huge win in the fourth.   We didn't have much going scoring‑wise.   He got to the foul line a couple times.   And he's so explosive.

Q.   How much fun is this season compared to last season?
DIRK NOWITZKI:   Last season was tough for me with the knee surgery.   I missed almost 30 games.   I had almost over a month to get going.   But by that time it was already at the All‑Star break.   And then I started playing decent ball again, but it was too late to make the playoff push. 
So we like our team this year and we're right where we want to be.   But it's only 30 or something games left.   We got to bring it.   Because if we don't, teams five through nine and that are really close in the West. 
Last week we lost a game in Houston and we were out of the playoffs and a week later we're the six seed. 
So we got to bring it every night in the West.   It's going to be a fun challenge for the rest of the season. 

Q.   Indiana coming into the break, Miami coming into the break, nice parting gift from David Stern, huh?
DIRK NOWITZKI:   That's as tough as it gets.   But we really responded well to that.   Indy has only lost two games in there all season at home, so that was a huge win for us. 
Hopefully everybody can clear their minds a little bit, come back refreshed on Monday, go to work, because Tuesday we got our hands full. 
But hopefully everybody will clear their heads a little bit.   But Monday we need everybody to come ready to work.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT