NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2009
Dirk Nowitzki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How tough was it to lose yesterday?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Just didn't make enough plays there in the fourth quarter to win it. They were great, making great shots. It was a little disappointing. But, the All-Star Game is about having fun and interacting with the best players in the world and enjoying the time.   
 Hopefully I'm able to enjoy my time, but hopefully I will see Steve and his kids a little bit tomorrow and go back home Sunday after the game and take a day off Monday and be ready Tuesday again.  
  
  Q. How disappointed are you by Josh Howard's injury?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: It is disappointing. Obviously it didn't help yesterday that Jet wasn't there and he is going to be out three weeks with a broken hand.   
 Josh fouled out with a couple minutes to go. Obviously all these things didn't help. We're just -- we just couldn't make enough plays. Our defense was good, but they made unbelievable shots. They made shots over our defenders. Sometimes great offense beats good defense. That's tough love.  
  
  Q. When you look at the first part of the season, what is the reason it was kind of a roller coaster, five wins in a row, then five losses in a row?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Well, I think we just had to work and keep improving. We had a new coach. We tried to put a new system in that wasn't really working the way we wanted. We had stuff from both ends of the floor, offensively and defensively. I think once we got comfortable with that, we started to be a little more consistent.   
 We didn't lose that many games anymore. It is all about a work in progress, getting all the players on the same page with the coach. It has been better here the last two, three weeks. We have beaten two, three teams. In the Western Conference, it is so tight. I think we are fifth or sixth now. We are setting ourselves up for these last 30 games we got and hopefully make a great run at the playoffs.   
 We were struggling and it was a little up and down, but the good thing is other teams were too. If you look at New Orleans, lost some tough games. Utah, Boozer has been out for a couple months. They lost some games. Phoenix is struggling.   
 There are a lot of teams that are up and down a little bit. And I think that's what helps us. I still think we are in a great position to have a great playoff run.  
  
  Q. Your former teammate, Devin Harris, is that something you could have envisioned over the last couple years to be an All-Star?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Really happy to see it. We knew he was a great point guard, he is going to be. I think for us we wanted to move in a different direction and we made a move. Once you make a move in the NBA, you can't look back.   
 You have to look forward and you go from there. But I'm happy for him. I just saw him for a brief moment and he looked happy to be here. Obviously, when it is your first time, you soak everything in and it is a great time.   
 I just told him to really enjoy this. He he deserves it. He has had a heck of the year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT