NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 18, 2006
Dirk Nowitzki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you just talk about far as what Miami defensively was doing against you, were they doing anything special, or was it just a tough night for you? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Well, I thought they did the same thing that they did in the first four games, body up.  I thought posted up, Shaq was coming up low, so they were just swarming me.  Nothing new.  J.T. had a great night, Josh was great.  We still had opportunities to win the game in regular play, and in overtime, we had some chances, so... 
 So obviously a tough loss. 

 Q.  A tough week in Miami, lost three games, player suspended.  How do you bounce back from that now to get back in the series, and going home? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Well, you know, we were confident.  We are a good home team all season long.  We won big games at home. 
 Obviously this one is a tough one to sit on for a day.  But, you know, starting tomorrow, we'll get focused again, watch some film of what we can do better and just be confident.  Our fans will be great at home.  They pushed us in Game 1 and Game 2, to two W's, so we're looking forward to more of the same in Game 6 and hopefully Game 7. 

 Q.  Is your confidence shaken a bit or do you think you can get it back together? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Well, I think we had enough opportunities to win this game today.  We know we can beat this team.  We showed it in Game 1 and Game 2.  Like I said, this is a tough one to swallow for a night, but starting tomorrow, we should feel a lot better about ourselves again. 

 Q.  Can you explain what you saw in that whole last sequence when the time-out was called? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Obviously, I thought it was a tough call.  You know, I thought Dwyane pushed off like three guys to get to the basket now and I saw him come running at me.  I kind of thought I went out of the way and they gave him the call.  So I thought it was a tough call. 
 Then in the time-out, I don't really know what happened.  I was on the other side.  Obviously we wanted a time-out after make or miss.  That was obviously the plan.  I don't know who said what.  But, you know, I think that's the referee, he needed to wait a little bit, and obviously they should know, too, that we don't want to waste our time-out.  So you need a little finger tips in a situation like that, so it was tough. 

 Q.  Is what you will remember letting it get away late in the fourth quarter two games, or will you try to just forget about everything that happened here and think about going forward? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Well, obviously we've got to approach it the way that we need to win two home games.  We know we're down, our backs are against the wall, and we responded to tough losses pretty much all season long. 
 So, yeah, I mean, we're going to watch the film, obviously what we did in the fourth quarter and overtime.  Obviously we thought we had Game 3 under control what couple minutes left, so, you know, we just made some mistakes that we can't make.  So, we'll go from there. 

 Q.  You tossed the ball into the stands at the end of the game.  Can you talk about, what were you thinking at that moment, was that just frustration? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Well, obviously frustration, that's a tough loss.  You know, to lose a game like that where we went up one, went up two right before overtime, and they tied the game.  Then, you know, we go up one with a couple seconds left and they get a call.  So more than anything, it's frustration.  And I'm an emotional player out there, and I don't think it was anything bad. 

 Q.  J.T. said that you guys are mad, you're upset.  Talk about that mentality going back home. 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Yeah, I mean, obviously we were mad already after Game 4.  I mean, we got embarrassed here.  They suspended one of our players.  So obviously we already were pretty mad.  I thought we responded, we were in the game, we had our chances.  You know, now we go home and same attitude as we came into the game today and we'll see what happens. 

 Q.  Are you surprised that Dwyane Wade goes to the line as many times personally as you do as a team? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Yeah, I mean, he's a good player.  Obviously he knows how to get to the basket and he knows how to draw contact.  He gets to the line a lot.  You know, he's been doing this all playoffs long, and you've got to give him credit. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT