NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 30, 2006
Dirk Nowitzki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Dirk, was there anything specific, different defensive-wise that they were doing against you tonight? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  I thought they just played a lot more aggressive than we did.  I still had some looks that I usually make, but, like I said, they were the aggressors, both ends of the floor.  Made a lot of defensive errors that we gotta correct until Thursday, and then we'll go from there. 
 Q.  Can you talk about turnovers, looked like you guys usually handle the well pretty well except for tonight? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Yeah, obviously we knew they had to create some turnovers, get their running game going.  We did a great job handling the ball in Game 3 and really didn't give them anything in the open court, and turnovers obviously is a big key, that gets them going the fast break.  Gets everybody off and running.  And we turned the ball over way too many times, especially early.  And just made a lot of mistakes all over the place. 
 But you gotta give them credit.  Like I said, they really set the tone from the start.  They were all over us and they were just a better team today. 
 Q.  It was a surprise to everybody when Raja suited up.  How much of an X and Os help was he and an emotional matter? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  We know he's a tough guy.  In the play-offs everybody is playing hurt.  And he stepped up and he was big for his team. 
 Q.  Just as far as Leandro, I mean, Coach talked about the possibility of what he can do, so was it really any surprise that he was capable of a game like that? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  I mean, not a surprise at all.  I think the way he played against the Clippers, they wouldn't even be here if he didn't have an incredible series against them.  He was shooting them.  He was taking it to the basket the last series. 
 So we all knew what he's capable of, and he had a great game today.  Came off the bench and really looked in rhythm.  The shot looked great.  He was taking us to the basket and finishing.  So, yeah, he was a tough little guy today and we gotta make sure we handle him a lot better in Game 5. 
 Q.  Dirk, the lack of energy and killer instinct the Mavs seem not to have tonight, did that surprise you and does it disturb you? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Obviously a little disappointing.  Like I said, in the playoffs, especially in the Western Conference Finals, nothing is going to be given to you or handed to you.  You gotta go out and take it.  And it looked like we were a little -- we were happy with the split and that's obviously disappointing the way we came out. 
 But, you know, we're still at half.  It was only a five-point game, so somehow we played terrible on both ends of the floor but we stuck around.  But just it was enough, they just kept making shots down the stretch, and it wasn't our night. 
 Q.  Dirk, you'd been very aggressive so far in this series taking them to the hole.  Seemed like Shawn was able to keep you outside taking tough shots.  If you can talk about that and the defensive switches that had you on Steve a couple times during the third quarter, can you talk about how that happened? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  Well, you know, first of all, they do a great job of spreading the floor with all their shooters, and, you know, if you don't switch out perimeter they always get you with Diaw rolling down the basket. 
 So, I mean, we tried different stuff as we did in this series, because, like I said, they're so good and teams are so good you can't just do one thing all the time.  You have to adjust on the fly and adjust from game to game. 
 And I think we did some good stuff in Game 2 and Game 3, and today it didn't work so well.  So we'll go back and adjust some stuff.  And to myself, yeah, I took some tough shots but still I had some turnarounds that I usually have to make.  I had a couple or one or two bouncers and up, which is my game that I usually make.  So I just gotta bounce back in Game 5. 
 Q.  You guys feel like you still have a handle on this series or now is it completely up for grabs? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  It's up for grabs, really.  It's 2-2, and they showed they can beat us in a big game at home already.  They won Game 1 with a great finish down the stretch. 
 And so, I mean, it's going to be a tough series, and we knew it's going to be a long one from the start.  Like I said, nothing is going to be given to us, we gotta go out and take it. 
 Q.  Hey, Dirk, you wound up with only 13 field goal attempts.  Why such a hard time getting shots tonight? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI:  They did a good job once I got the ball and spun, they double-teamed me and they got the ball out of my hands some.  But I still have to be more aggressive and still look for my game.  And if it's not there, just swing it, make my teammates better. 
 So gotta come out a lot better in Game 5.  Thanks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT