NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 12, 2011
Rick Carlisle
Mark Cuban
Jason Kidd
Dirk Nowitzki
Stuart Scott
David Stern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Dallas Mavericks 105
  Miami Heat   95

 THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, please direct your attention to center court for the presentation of the Larry O'Brien Trophy and the 2011 Bill Russell NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award. Please welcome ABC's Stuart Scott. 
 STUART SCOTT: Thank you very much. Congratulations to the Mavericks. And here to present the Larry O'Brien Trophy to the Dallas Mavericks, NBA Commissioner David Stern. 
 COMMISSIONER DAVID STERN: Thank you, Miami and Dallas, for a series that showed determination, teamwork and the best passion and intensity of the NBA. Thank you, thank you. But tonight we crown a new champion. 
 For the first time in franchise history, the Dallas Mavericks have won the NBA championship. Congratulations to Mark Cuban, Terdema Ussery, Donnie Nelson, Coach Rick Carlisle, the amazing team that calls themselves the Dallas Mavericks, and all the fans in Texas who are Dallas Mavericks fans. I'm going to present the trophy tonight at Mark Cuban's request to the founder and first owner of the Dallas Mavericks, Donald Carter, who is up here with me with his wife Linda Jo. In the mass of people, NBA Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban joins us now. 
 Mark, 11 years ago you purchased this team. What does this accomplishment mean? 
 MARK CUBAN: You know what, it doesn't mean as much to me -- it just feels so good for Dirk and Jason Kidd and Jason Terry and Shawn Marion. You know, the whole world was telling us we were the one-and-done boys. That we were going to get knocked out in the first round. 
 This team has so much heart, so much determination and so much more to that. I love every one of them. Let me just tell you, our fans who came down here to Miami, you guys rock. We heard you guys. 
 STUART SCOTT: Mark, you are known as one of the most outspoken owners in sports, yet you've been very quiet throughout this whole series? Why? 
 MARK CUBAN: Rick, get your butt over here. Ask him the question. 
 STUART SCOTT: Come on over, Coach. 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: My owner is now available for interviews. 
 STUART SCOTT: So you put it on him. You said Mark, do you really think --
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: No, I don't think. I just want to say this is a true team. This is an old-school bunch. We don't run fast or jump high. But these guys had each other's back. They played the right way. They trusted the pass. This is a phenomenal thing for the city of Dallas. 
 STUART SCOTT: What did you say to your team before the start of this Game 6? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: The only thing I said is, "Play our game and play your ass off." 
 STUART SCOTT: They had the big three, the three All Stars. You guys had big one, Dirk Nowitzki. How did you beat them? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Dirk Nowitzki is one of the very greatest players in the history of this game. And that has been validated here tonight. He had a tough shooting night in the first half, but other guys stepped up they kept us afloat. In the second half he was amazing. 
 STUART SCOTT: Congratulations, Coach Rick Carlisle. One of only 11 to win an NBA championship as a player and a coach. 
 Now back to present the 2011 Bill Russell NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award Commissioner Stern. 
 COMMISSIONER DAVID STERN: It's my pleasure to be here with the greatest champion of them all, Bill Russell, whom the MVP trophy is named. 
 The MVP with this series with an average of 26 points and almost 10 rebounds a game, Dirk Nowitzki. 
 STUART SCOTT: Congratulations, NBA Finals MVP Dirk Nowitzki. What was the first thought that crossed your mind when the clock hit 0:00? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I still can't believe it. We worked so hard and so long for it. The team has been unbelievable riding through ups and downs and always staying together and working. I still can't even believe it. 
 STUART SCOTT: Five years ago you guys were up 2-0 on the Miami Heat. They won four straight and won the title. This year they were up 2-1 on you. You guys won three straight and won the title. How did you do it? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I think we're a veteran team. We played from behind all season long. We came back from huge deficits all season long by believing in each other, playing off each other. Playing good defense, and offensively I think moving the ball and having fun with each other. 
 So this is unbelievable, and the team deserves it. The Mavs' nation deserves it. They were great to us the last couple of years. It's been amazing ride. 
 STUART SCOTT: In this game, even though you guys were ahead at halftime, you were 1-for-12 shooting at halftime. Did you get in touch with your boyhood coach, Coach Holger, during recess? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: You know what, I couldn't get into rhythm today. The team carried me all game long. They were great. Jet came out aggressive and took over the game early. Gave us the early lead. J.J. was phenomenal. I have to give it up to the fellas. They were unbelievable and carried me to this win. 
 STUART SCOTT: NBA Finals champion, how does that sound? 
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Unbelievable. We'll take it. 
 STUART SCOTT: Dirk Nowitzki ten-time all-star. One NBA MVP, one NBA Finals MVP and one champion. 
 Where is Jason Kidd? Come talk to me. 17 years you've been in the league. 17 years no championship. Right now, what's going on in your heart and in your head? 
 JASON KIDD: I just can't believe the journey. The journey, the character of my teammates telling me they want to give me a championship, and tonight they came out and played well. I came here twice, this being my third time. The third time was a lucky charm. 
 STUART SCOTT: How often did you think about the two times you were with the Nets that you went to the Finals and lost? 
 JASON KIDD: Well, I thought about it a lot that hopefully I would get another opportunity. We got another opportunity here, but we played a great team in the Heat. It was a battle. We just came out tonight and showed that we didn't want to go to a Game 7. 
 STUART SCOTT: Right after the game you shared a moment with Dwyane Wade, LeBron James and Chris Bosh. What did you say to them? 
 JASON KIDD: I just told them way to fight. Those three all said, if there was anybody that was going to beat us, they were happy for me. They showed a lot of class, unfortunately somebody has to lose this. They'll be back.
 STUART SCOTT: Other than Kareem Abdul-Jabbar you were the oldest player to start in and win an NBA championship. I don't see a wheelchair or crutches anywhere. How much more years do you have? 
 JASON KIDD: With this group hopefully another two or three. I feel great. Being around younger guys, I'm working on my game them believing in me helped me compete every day. 
 STUART SCOTT: You guys were off the chart shooting from beyond the arc the last two games, Game 5 and 6. How did you shoot so effectively? 
 JASON KIDD: We thought with the way they played defense they were going to wear down at some point. They were over-helping a little bit. We were getting those shots in Game 1 and starting knocking them down in Game 5. We were hoping that would carry over to Game 6. 
 STUART SCOTT: Second all time in assists, third all time in steals, third all time in three-point shots made. Jason Kidd, 17 years, finally an NBA champion. We're sending this thing back to you, Mike Breen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT