ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2006
Scott Drummond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. A bit of a disappointing finish, but would you have taken two under at Carnoustie?
SCOTT DRUMMOND:  I think I would. Carnoustie is the course you do not want to get in bad weather so anything under par is okay. I played great on the front nine and thought I was on target for getting around with no bogeys, but I missed a couple of shorts putts towards the end but I holed my fair share. That took the edge of a little bit b ut two under is still a good score.
Q. And yesterday was a fine performance?
SCOTT DRUMMOND:  I played really solid yesterday and putted solid, which has been my weakness this year. I am pleased.
Q. I believe you prefer Carnoustie out of the three courses. Why's that?
SCOTT DRUMMOND:  I enjoy St Andrews a lot more now than I used to. I've enjoyed it more since I played the Open last year, but Carnoustie is in great shape every time we come and it is my favourite. I first played in this tournament four or five years ago and I got drawn here on the Friday and the weather was brutal.

Again, I three-putted the last for a 68, which was four under at the time, and it was probably one of the best rounds of golf I have played given the conditions. It was a day when 74 or 75 was a good score. I've known that even in those bad conditions I was able to grind out a score. If I've done it once, I can do it again.
Q. You seem to produce your best performances in the bigger events. Can you explain that?
SCOTT DRUMMOND:  I get a bit more inspired maybe. I don't know what it is, really. I try to get myself up for every event, but certainly my best results have been in the big tournaments. If that's the way it is, then I'm happy with that. It's strange really. It's not that I try any harder in these events or do anything different. Obviously certain events have more of a buzz and more of a feel to them. Majors and events like the PGA, where you are playing for a huge amount of money and ranking points.

If those sort of circumstances lift my game, then that's great. That's what the top players want to do - lift their game for the big events. I just need to sharpen up in the smaller events as well.
Q. Not easy when it has been a difficult year for you?
SCOTT DRUMMOND:  It has been difficult. It has been my best year in terms of ball striking but my worst in terms of putting stats. I have missed a lot of cuts by a shot. It has been a bit demoralising at times. But it has been a tough time off the course as well with having a second baby. That's hard work - more hard work for Claire obviously, as she is stuck at home. She has been a bit poorly a couple of times and that has added to a bit of stress. I probably underestimated the stress. Things are improving though.
Q. Thoughts on tomorrow. You are still handily placed?
SCOTT DRUMMOND:  Kingsbarns is another lovely course. It reminds me of Whistling Straits when I played the US PGA there. I have good feelings and I have played well there the last couple of years. Traditionally it is the lowest scoring of the three, so to be up there with Kingsbarns still to play is a nice position. If you play well around there, you have every possibility of making a good score.
Q. A good week here would at least put a nice gloss on the season for you?
SCOTT DRUMMOND:  It would be nice to take one or two decent results out of the year. I am going to the US PGA Tour School and I would like to take some form to that.
Q. You still have the exemption from winning at Wentworth, so I guess that takes some of the heat off?
SCOTT DRUMMOND:  It certainly does. In the past I have looked at guys with exemptions and thought to myself that they should be able to go out and play their best golf all the time, as they do not have the pressure. But it doesn't work like that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT