U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2015
Sherrill Britt
Greg Earnhardt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You guys looked like you might be shaking hands on 14 green, and they put a chip in after and off you go, right?GREG EARNHARDT: It's match point, so we kind of expected it.  We've been way up and just trying to hold on every time.SHERRILL BRITT: Every match we've been 3-up through 9.GREG EARNHARDT: Yeah, and then we just hold on.  I think this time maybe we were too tired to really realize.  We were just trying to get to the end with as tired as we were.Q. That's a big turn around on the last green though?GREG EARNHARDT: Yeah, well, his putt was big.Q. That's what I'm saying.  So they're in there trying to look at square.  How long was that putt you made?SHERRILL BRITT: Oh, I don't know.  He had a great putt.  I thought for sure he made his and it lipped out.GREG EARNHARDT: About 20 feet, 25 feet.  My chip was kind of on the same line.SHERRILL BRITT: And the same putt he had earlier today he made it from there to close the match out, so we knew what it did.Q. Could you talk about earlier in the match you won a lot of holes with pars on the front.SHERRILL BRITT: We started off they made about a 6-footer on 1 for par to tie us.  Then on 2, he made a putt, and I chipped in over the green to tie him with birdies.  Then 3 we went with a par.Q. It seemed like Match Play the second match of the day always everybody's tired and everybody's not as fresh mentally and physically, so it is more of a grind out there?GREG EARNHARDT: That was this guy.SHERRILL BRITT: And I think 9 he missed a short putt.Q. Have you two played a lot of golf together?GREG EARNHARDT: Too much, too much.Q. How much?GREG EARNHARDT: Well, we just left the Carolina's Mid Am.  He won the Carolina's Mid Am last week.  We were in the final group together.  He was 11-under, and I was 8-under going into the final round, and he ended up living.  I go down to Pinehurst.  He lives in Pinehurst, and I go down and we play there together once or twice a week probably.Q. What kind of confidence did winning the Carolinas giving give you going into this?SHERRILL BRITT: Not much.  The good thing about it, I've got a good partner, so that's my best confidence.  So I know I can make my skank doubles and toe hooks out there and let him have it.Q. And you played well there too, so you had to have a good feeling going in?GREG EARNHARDT: I did.  I did.  I mean, we felt good coming.  We were disappointed after our first round in the stroke play when we shot 1-under because we felt like we couldn't play no worse.  Then you get in and the score wasn't that bad.  And we just kept on, and when we made Match Play, like Sherrill said, we haven't played our best golf yet and we made Match Play.SHERRILL BRITT: And I saw who won behind us.GREG EARNHARDT: Yeah, Harvey.  We could have stayed at home and played this one in Greensboro and saved us a whole lot of money.  Carolina's Mid Am was at Northridge, Northridge and Raleigh.Q. Sherrill, when they made the chip-in at 14, and he comes back with the birdie, it's game on a little bit.  What was maybe going through your mind at that point?SHERRILL BRITT: We were still up.  I knew as tough as these holes are, I still had to make, I felt like, two birdies to beat us in the next three holes, and that was pretty tough today.Q. Even though the match wasn't over, you slammed the door on them a little bit with that putt on 16?SHERRILL BRITT: Well, I knew then that they had to make two birdies.GREG EARNHARDT: That was big, because coming off two birdies and had an easy putt.  You know, that just stopped, I think, stopped the momentum because they had it when he chipped in on the 1 hole.  That just stopped the momentum.SHERRILL BRITT: That's the one I really wanted to make when he chipped in and it was dead in the heart short.Q. How long have you two known each other?GREG EARNHARDT: 20 years.  I quit playing for a while, so I quit playing around 2006.  So I didn't go down and play with him in Pinehurst anymore.  So it's only an hour for me to get to Pinehurst, so usually we go down there and play because the games are good, but 20 years ago, probably, on and off.SHERRILL BRITT: The guys we played with were really good guys.  Very nice, very polite.  Pulled for you.  It was fun.  It was a good match.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT