ROSE BOWL GAME: OHIO STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 29, 2018
Dwayne Haskins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If you're here to make any major announcements about your future, I wanted to give you that chance.  
DWAYNE HASKINS: I'm not.   
 Q.  How much have you enjoyed the ride?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: It was a lot of fun.  You know, being able to do what we did this year at the capacity we did it, how much fun we had doing it, it's been a blast.   
 Q.  Have you confided in anyone about what you may do?  Have you discussed this decision?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Really just internally with my family, friends, coaches and teammates.  Haven't really like put too much thought into it other than like, you know -- (indiscernible) at the end of the day, doesn't matter if you're dialed in on Saturday.  I'm just worried about the game.   
 Q.  Last time we talked to you, your status changed a little bit because of -- Herbert -- who many thought was No. 1 pick, return to a school, had an impact, what do you think when you see that?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: I thought he was the best quarterback in the country regardless of what Herbert did.  I'm happy he made that decision for himself but his decision had nothing to do with me.  I'm just blessed to be a Buckeye, whether that's coming back or not, it's just a great opportunity for me.   
 Q.  Was it a shock --  
DWAYNE HASKINS: I wasn't shocked by it.  I talk to my teammates about it all the time, come back, win the National Championship, win the Heisman Trophy and always great things to think about.  A lot on my mind now.   
 Q.  A lot of analysts are jumping on board that you would be the best rated quarterback in the draft.  What does that do from an ego standpoint?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: It definitely reinforces it, to have somebody say that much about you but like I said, always felt that way about myself.  Just putting the work in and keep getting better.   
 Q.  Is it a compliment that we're continually asking about this?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: You want to be in a position to play the NFL.  Have people taking notice of me.   
 Q.  I don't mean to belabor the point.  You said Herbert doesn't have any impact on you and you always felt like you were the No. 1 quarterback in the draft.  When somebody is in that discussion with you returns, you see that has an impact on you, all the boards we see on the Internet, draft scouts, I think you're undeniably the No. 1 prospect at that position in the draft.  Does that not impact or play into those internal discussions?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: No, that's pretty cool, though.   
 Q.  What has you engaged about this game?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Really, just being the best quarterback, best leader I can be for this team and trying to find a way for the seniors to go out with a win, for Coach Meyers to go without with a win and to have as much fun as possible here in L.A. is really my main goal here.   
 Q.  How is the week going?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: It's going well.  We had a lot of events to go to, a lot of fun things to do, had a lot of good practices so far, and just prepare for the game.   
 Q.  This is Urban Meyer's last game, he says, as a coach.  He said that one time a long time ago but came back.  If this is his last game, what is he all about from your perspective?  What has made him special?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: He's all about the players.  He does whatever he can to help the guys out, whether that's with academics, football, off the field opportunities.  He's a great all around guy and glad I was able to be a player for him.   
 Q.  How have you rolled with it so to speak?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Always knew I could be in that position.  Look I said just had to put the work in to go do it.  To be a Heisman finalist and be considered as the top quarterback in the draft were all goals of mine, so I'm just working for it.  To be able to have my work be noticed, to be achieved, it's just a feeling for myself to know that I worked hard a lot for the last several years, so it was all worth it.   
 Q.  The word out is that Washington might have the best secondary in the country.  That's been the talk, anyway.  When you look at them, what do you see?  Do you see a stellar group back there?  What challenge will be this be on Tuesday?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Tremendous challenge.  Definitely see the All-Americans on the defense.  Rapp and Murphy are really good players.  You know, Michigan didn't really scare us and other teams didn't really scare us, so we're not worried about what the verdict is as far as who people think is the best defense in the country because we feel like we're the best offense in the country.  Whoever we play, they are going to give their best shot.  We know that, so we have to be ready to go play.   
 Q.  Knox you lose in the Michigan game and looks like Munford is questionable for Tuesday.  What do you expect from the offensive line and what have you seen this week getting ready?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Definitely a talented group.  Some inexperience with Josh and Wyatt, but you know, they are really talented, so just needed the reps during Bowl season to be ready for this game and I have no doubt in my mind they will be ready for the game.   
 Q.  Can you go back to the days when you were 10 and 11 and playing at the Rose Bowl camp you attended?  Was it a dream that you would be back?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Yeah, for sure.  I've got a lot of dreams, so to come here when I was younger, to go work out in the Rose Bowl and go to camps in the Rose Bowl, I was actually in the same hotel junior year of high school.  Everything is just crazy how everything works out, and just to be able to be in this position because it took a lot of work to get here, and feels pretty good.  So I know there's a lot more work to do but just blessed honestly.   
 Q.  You mean this one or the Intercontinental?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: This one.  Same hotel and Trent gave us a speech right over there.   
 Q.  What's more impressive, do you think:  The stadium, the Rose Bowl or the actual Rose Bowl, the actual Bowl game?  Is it just another stadium until it's the Rose Bowl or does the stadium itself --  
DWAYNE HASKINS: It's pretty historic.  I don't think too many people -- the game definitely helps out with the atmosphere but just like the stadium itself is beautiful.  Just the atmosphere, being in L.A. and just the weather, you can smell the grass.  It's a really good game.   
 Q.  Has there been any doubt this week that Urban Meyer is still the head coach until Tuesday?  What has been sort of the tenor of practice, he is, with him still returning things?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: No, he's still the head coach.  That's not going to change.  He does a great job involving the other coaches as far as positional coaches or Coach Day does a great job knowing he's still the offensive coordinator.  They all work together pretty well.  You know, nothing really has changed.   
 Q.  When you say Urban Meyer is running the show what does that mean?  What have you seen the last three years?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Very, very hands-on.  You know, he's not as, I would say, as aggressive as he used to be because of his conditions, but he definitely is involved in practice.  He brings a lot of energy.  Especially with my position, he's talking to me throughout the whole entire practice.  You know, he's a really great coach, a legendary coach.   
 Q.  What's been his message this week when he gets you together for those few minutes before and after?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Win the Rose Bowl.  That's what he always says.  And being in our unit strong and brotherhood.  We all know it's his last game.  It's a lot of seniors' last game, so we are all just trying to galvanize together to go win this game.   
 Q.  What you've accomplished offensively, and with guys that could be leaving, including yourself, is there a sense you want to go out and put on a show in this game offensively?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Yeah, definitely.  You want to put on a show every game and this helps us, last game of the year and one of the best defenses in the country.  It gives us all the incentives to want to go out there and play well.  So we're looking forward to the challenge.   
 Q.  How much does it being the Rose Bowl add a little bit to that, knowing New Year's Day, everyone will be watching this game?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Oh, definitely.  To play Washington who is a really good defense, really good team and playing in the Rose Bowl on New Year's, want to go out there and have a lot of fun and go play well and leave it all out there on the field.  We're just looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Where has Ryan been the most influential as a quarterback?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: I feel like the mental aspect of the game, meetings, preparation, stuff that you need to do in order to play well on Saturday, besides just the practice.  I feel like he definitely taught me how to be a pro and how to handle the offense and game planning throughout the week, and just be able to be prepared for whatever you see on Saturday.   
 Q.  How does your working relationship with him compare with Urban?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Yeah, both of them are hands on with me.  Me and Coach Day have more of a football relationship and then me and Coach Meyer have more of a leadership, like emotional relationship.  So in different ways, we talk to each other, but Coach Day definitely has Coach Meyer in him, too.  They are both really great coaches.   
 Q.  The vernacular of the day, it appears that Campbell has made himself some money this year with his play.  What have you seen from him that's gotten better over the last three years and has elevated his game and do you agree with that idea?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Oh, yeah, I feel like all three of the guys made some money, even K.J.  But as far as Parris putting the work to be an all-around receiver, we all knew how fast he was but as far as his route running and him tracking the ball, he's worked on that tremendously throughout the off-season and it's paid off for him and feel like he definitely showed scouts or NFL people that he could catch the ball and he could run good routes.  That's important.   
 Q.  Was there a moment this year when you saw that happen and it clicked in your head that, hey, he has definitely improved, you know what I mean?  It was either Northwestern or Michigan where he went over the middle and leaped and caught a ball --  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Northwestern -- yeah, I knew during camp he was going to have a great year, the way he was practicing, even with Terry, too.  Just seeing how much work they were putting in and how much they wanted to be great, and he wanted to do everything he possible for himself to to be in a good position for the Draft and he did that.   
 Q.  On the one hand, you could be the first quarterback taken in the draft, no who knows where that could be, could be really high.  On the other hand, you have team goals that are only attainable in college, which is the National Championship and possible Heisman Trophy.  Is that a real juggling match for you to deal with?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: I wouldn't say it's a juggling match.  Just really the decision is what do I want to do at the end of the day and haven't made the decision yet.  But you know, there's pros and cons that will outweigh each other with staying or leaving.  I'll be fine either way.  The biggest thing is what I want to do.  That's what I'm trying to figure out.   
 Q.  Do you feel like there's no wrong decision?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: No, I don't feel like that at all.  I feel like I'll be fine staying or coming back.   
 Q.  Is it uncomfortable that we keep asking you this, when you've said over and over you don't have a decision?  Are you tired of this at this point?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: I'm not tired of it.  I feel like I've got to make a decision faster.  But definitely just excited to be in the position to make a decision, so a lot of people dream about playing in the NFL and people don't really get to achieve that, so I'm one of the few people that get to, so I'm just taking it all in.   
 Q.  Just seems like it must be uncomfortable maybe at times, like you don't want to make a decision now and you're putting it off and we ask you about your future every time we see you.  I can't imagine if somebody was asking me about that, but what has it felt like to go through this and has it been uncomfortable?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: No, not really.  I got to the 15th to make a decision, so I'm taking my time.  You know, you're not the only one asking me questions.  That guy over there asks me every day what I'm doing.  I don't know, it changes every day.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  What's he do?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: I don't know.   
 Q.  Orlando told us he was staying in 1996, so we quit asking him, and announced four days after the Rose Bowl they were leaving.  It is a hassle; right?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: It's not bad, though.  It's all good.   
 Q.  How much film have you seen on Washington's defense?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Oh, a lot.  We watch film on them every day, watch them in our free time and they play really good football.   
 Q.  What stands out?  Do they remind you of anybody you've played so far this year?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Kind of a Michigan State type defense.  They all fly to the ball and have good, long players on the back end and physical linebackers.  You know, they do a great job with their scheme.   
 Q.  Did you go back and look at the Michigan State game that you guys played?  Does that help?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: They don't play the like same scheme, per se.  They are more NFL-based and practice 12 based as far as keeping everything in front of them as far as pass defense.   
So we're used to seeing quarters and man coverage, so it will be a little different, seeing more zone, more of a Northwestern type game.  That's what I've seen on film.   
 Q.  Favorite Disneyland moment?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: Space Mountain was pretty fun.  So that was pretty good.   
 Q.  Were you able to fit in the rides without any problem?  
DWAYNE HASKINS: No, I couldn't -- my legs almost broke the machine.  It was hard getting in there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT