OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 24, 2018
Dwayne Haskins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Ohio State - 62, Michigan - 39
Q. Dwayne, first of all, how sweet is this?  And what did you guys see that you could exploit in the Michigan defense?
DWAYNE HASKINS: It's a crazy win.  We seen a lot of man coverage, lot of one high, so we knew that we could get a lot of one-on-one match-ups and crossing routes on them.  And made some plays when it mattered the most.  And it was a great win today.
Q. (Inaudible)?
DWAYNE HASKINS: I don't know about 62, but I knew we were going to come out and put on a show.  I'm proud of how we played today.  It started up front with the "O" line.  And the playmakers made plays.  That's what mattered.
Q. Seems like very quickly Chris Olave has become one of your favorite guys.  Talk about getting him involved there early, Dwayne, and what that meant to the offense, getting those two quick touchdowns?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Chris came in as a freshman, you can see all the talent, all the skill in the world.  Didn't have opportunity to play much this year.  So when he got in there he made it matter.  And he was really smooth, silky receiver, makes a lot of plays, plays fast.  Johnnie got hurt a little bit, so he came in there and made some big plays as a true freshman.  So I'm proud of the way he played.
Q. Dwayne, can you describe what the postgame celebration was like this week, and after all the ups and downs of this year and to beat your rival the way you did?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Definitely.  Can't really get off the field really.  All the fans just flooded the field and it shows how much love that this football team gets from this university.  And just really a great win.  And we played great.  And looking forward to next week.
Q. I know sometimes the "statement win" thing gets thrown around casually, but is this the kind of message you wanted to send to get back into the playoff race here?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Yeah, we played well, so we've got to do it again versus Northwestern next week, and let the committee make a decision from there.  But we're going to keep putting good stuff out there on film, and keep getting better.  And I feel like we can still get better; we haven't played our best game yet.  So there's a ways to go for us.
Q. Dwayne, did you, unlike maybe the most of us who didn't see this coming -- this is the number one defense in the country against the pass, giving up 122 yards or something like that.  Did you like what you saw on film and saw this to be possible?
DWAYNE HASKINS: I was licking my chops, I see the one-high covers and that's a quarterback's dream.  The biggest responsibility for me all week was to be able to pick up blitzes and protection, because we saw a lot of different fronts and exotic looks.  I spent hours in the film room just trying to figure out how we can pick the blitzes up.  And once we picked it up, receivers make plays, and I'm going to put it there.  And it was a great overall team effort today.
Q. With the season you've had and the game you've had today, how would you like people to think of you, and how would you like Ohio State fans to remember you with what you did against Michigan today?
DWAYNE HASKINS: I'm not done yet.  But I want to be one of the best to ever do it when I get gone playing here at this university.  And this is a dream come true for me.  I have no words to say about, like, all we've done this year.  It's been a dream of mine to play here at the university for a while.
And to break all these records and to go win these games the way we've won these games is a blessing.  And going to put on a show next week.
Q. (Inaudible)?
DWAYNE HASKINS: We did some running plays all week and we were just going to -- you know, if it's there, pull it, and the "D" end crashing the side, so I pulled it.  Just wanted to show how I can use my feet, and made plays when they mattered.
And that's a great defense we played.  Like you said, the most impact defense in the country, great players across every position group.  And we just wanted to show we were one of the best offenses in the country.
Q. You guys had your doubters heading into this one.  We heard so much about the Michigan Revenge Tour.  Was that motivation for you guys all?  Did you just circle the wagons that so many people were counting you guys out?
DWAYNE HASKINS: I mean, we didn't need the underdog score point.  We didn't need the revenge tour.  We didn't need the guaranteed win.  We know what this game means to our school, to our teammates and to our coaches.
So I just knew that this week in practice I needed to bring a different type of energy, like I did last week against Maryland.  And I gave it my all today.  And I'm glad we got the win.
Q. (Inaudible)?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Yes, it did.
Q. (Inaudible)?
DWAYNE HASKINS: A-plus job.  Zero sacks.  I have to take them out to dinner.  So that's good.  But as far as picking up protections, there was no pressures.  I really had all day in the pocket.  I can't complain.  The line did a great job.  I'm praying for Metes, hoping that he's okay.  To have a performance like that, try to do it again next week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT