OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 13, 2018
Dwayne Haskins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Minnesota - 14, Ohio State - 30
Q. This looked like a very tough defense to crack for you guys from a consistency basis.  What was going on out there from your viewpoint?  Number two, K.J. Hill, his right hand looks pretty sticky.  What was your view of that play also?
DWAYNE HASKINS: I'm pretty sure they're a top five defense in the country.  What they did, they do it well.  They're very consistent.  We shot ourselves in the foot a couple of times with some penalties, some very long situations, first long situation.  Put ourselves behind the ball a couple times.  But K.J. did a great job, made a couple catches today that were really crazy.  Proud of the offense, though.
Q. Dwayne, that crazy catch, the one-handed by K.J., how did it look from your angle?  How special was it?  How special was that?  How much does it help a quarterback to have someone helping you out like that?
DWAYNE HASKINS: At first, I was kind of mad because that play we've been working on all week in practice, and it happens a lot faster.  So I wanted him to get his head around, so when he looked, the ball was already there, and it was a little behind him.  But he made a crazy play.  Of course, K.J. is a little character.  He was pretty hyped up.  He had a career day today.
Q. Offensive line struggled at times today.  Could you assess the overall offense.
DWAYNE HASKINS: The offense, not everything's going to be pretty.  There's going to be adversity no matter who we play, especially a team like Minnesota.  They're a great defense.  We just had to fight through adversity, made the plays when they mattered, and that's a good learning tool for next week.
Q. Dwayne, sometimes it looks like the offense is sputtering, and then you look down at the box score and you're throwing for 400 yards.  What does it feel like when you're in a game like that?  Do you feel like things aren't going well and then you look down and you're surprised by your stats?  Or did you feel like things were going the way you wanted?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Of course we wanted to finish a couple of drives, score some touchdowns, and have some penalties, but I wouldn't say frustration.  Just like we have higher expectations for ourselves than what we do sometimes on the field.  Today was just figuring out what worked and then going out and executing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT