OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 6, 2018
Dwayne Haskins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Ohio State - 49, Indiana - 26
Q. Just talk about the offensive firepower.
DWAYNE HASKINS: I feel like we have a really dynamic group.  Have a great group of guys, great talent across the board, a lot of depth and today was making plays when they mattered the most, whether it was passing or throwing.  Everybody did a good job executing when we needed it.
Q. Dwayne, it might sound weird given the touchdowns you threw for, the yardage and all that, how many points you wound up scoring, but was there something off about the offense early?  Didn't seem like you were quite clicking on all cylinders, if that's fair.
DWAYNE HASKINS: I'm not going to lie, we probably are still tired from last week.  Definitely was a little low in energy during the practice during the week.  But best thing about today, we found a way to win.  Even though it wasn't pretty at all times throughout the game, football is about overcoming adversity.
Q. I know touchdowns passes are probably like kids; you wouldn't name a favorite.  But the throw back to Johnnie Dixon, what was your favorite touchdown pass today and why?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Probably the one to Terry, no, actually the one to Bin was pretty good too.  All of them were my favorite.
Q. You had some of the long ones, but most were quick passes, let your receivers do the work.  How much of that is what this offense is going to and already has evolved into -- get the ball in playmakers' hands and let them make plays?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Definitely what we do on offense.  People are in blitzes, they blitzed a lot today, a lot of coverage.  So we've gotta be able to find plays where we can get rid of the ball fast.
That's what we learned from Penn State a couple weeks ago.  Just being able to dump it off to Parris and let him get 80 yards makes it way easier for me.
Q. To have 455 yards and six touchdown passes, does that feel like, hey, that was a great game?  Or does it sort of feel like that's what you expect from yourself and this offense?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Yeah, we definitely -- every game you want to light it up, but definitely it was a good statistical game.  I'm glad we got the win most importantly.
Q. It's very business-like Dwayne.  You have been all season, and your teammates -- can you just talk about the focus this team has?  And you just threw for 455 yards, six touchdowns, but you're very business-like.  Why is that?
DWAYNE HASKINS: It's because what the (indiscernible) goal is.  We want to get to that championship (inaudible).  And it's just one game at a time.  (Indiscernible) matters, so every game we're going in there with our business (inaudible).
Q. You mentioned that you guys are a little tired from last week, the energy wasn't quite there.  But you were still able to win.  Last year at Iowa you guys weren't able to do.  Do you see it as a sign of growth for this team that you're able to overcome and take care of business this time around?
DWAYNE HASKINS: You never want to lose a game, but last year we referenced a lot how we lost to Iowa after beating Penn State and how everyone had their heads down going into the ring.  This week we made it focus by not letting the game go away from us.  Definitely showed a lot of growth, a lot of maturity on our side of the ball.  And defense did a good job too.  And keep the ball rolling.
Q. Six touchdowns, all the yardage, 23 points, is that what an Ohio State let-down looks like?
DWAYNE HASKINS: (Laughing) you know, even though we won, it didn't feel like one of the best games we played.  Gotta keep getting better.  But let-down, no, but room for improvement.
Q. Kind of going off the bat, a lot of people may think that this was a lackluster performance and a lot of people say, hey, you avoided the loss and you got through the past week.  Do you guys feel like this is a good performance for you especially coming off of a physical game against Penn State?
DWAYNE HASKINS: I thought it was pretty solid, things to work on.  That's just the game we play, not everything is going to perfect.  Just gotta be able to deal with that, and even though we know that we won the game, things we gotta work on, of course.  But be satisfied with the W, and looking forward to playing Minnesota.
Q. Specifically what were they getting done up front?  I'm talking about Indiana, to kind of confound you guys running the ball today, especially between the tackles.  What was going on there?
DWAYNE HASKINS: A lot of five-man, six-man pressure, some (indiscernible) from the fields, some pressure from the boundary.  And pass protection was isolated one way, the linebacker wrapped around (indiscernible) protection.
There was a lot of (indiscernible) you've got to be able to watch the film and be able to see in the game.  Indiana has a lot of exotic looks, some variety up front and (indiscernible) the back end.  Once we figured out what we were going to do against them, we came out with that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT