OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 22, 2018
Dwayne Haskins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Tulane - 6, Ohio State - 49
Q. Dwayne, you threw more touchdowns than incompletions today.  Is this what you imagined or better than what you thought?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Probably better than what I thought.  I never put into an idea of what I could do, just wanted to go out and win games, play really great and really proud of how great my surrounding people are, receivers, tight ends, O-line, running backs, doing a great job.
Q. You got to watch a lot last year.  What is different from your vantage point in Parris Campbell this year?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Parris has always been a dynamic receiver.  He put a lot of effort into working on his hands and catching every pass that gets thrown to him.  He makes a lot of plays with his feet, so being able to get the ball into the hands of the receiver, he's dangerous.
Q. Are you guys ready for a challenge like Penn State now?  Are you already thinking about Penn State?
DWAYNE HASKINS: For sure.
Q. What do you mean by that?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Thinking about Penn State.
Q. Dwayne you have 16 touchdowns and one interception this year, and probably more than that if you were playing more than a half in some of these games.  I know you're trying to keep the focus on the team and the games you're trying to win, but people are going to keep talking about you as an individual and what these performances can mean for you.  What do you think you're showing people now and how do you compartmentalize the goals you have when people are talking about your name more and more every week?
DWAYNE HASKINS: I just want to show how dangerous the offense is, and with me at the helm, a lot of plays can be made.  Every game, whether running or throwing, trying to make as many plays as possible.
Q. Talk about your emotions and what it was like to have Coach Meyer back today.
DWAYNE HASKINS: It was definitely great to get Coach back today.  Just a lot of -- I wouldn't say it was sad emotions, but being able to have him in the locker room and being able to talk to him, we missed not having him there the first of the year.  Being with him before we go out on the field together, the excitement he brings, the energy he brings, it was definitely missed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT