OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 8, 2018
Dwayne Haskins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Ohio State - 52, Rutgers - 3
Q. Dwayne, what did you learn today?  Second straight outing, second straight big QB rating -- four touchdown passes.  What went well today and how did you have to hone your game because of the weather?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Because it was raining outside, I had to be really good with ball placement.  No turnovers, no fumbles anything like that.  Great job by the "O" line today.  Really good (indiscernible) and pretty successful.
Q. This seems like must be a pretty fun offense to be running right now.  You guys can attack just about any way you want.  From your perspective running the show, is that the case?  You guys do anything that you might want to do?
DWAYNE HASKINS: It's a whole lot of fun.  I want to run so many series, so many plays that we ran out of time, and up so many points we can't do what we want.  But it's like every series there's opportunity to go score, there's me throwing it, me running it or giving it to somebody else to do something with it.  It's a lot of fun.
Q. (Indiscernible) last week about, if you thought you could have had the performance you did, 313 yards last week, now this week only three incompletions.  So I'll ask you again did you think this performance that you had today that you were capable of?
DWAYNE HASKINS: I think so.  Just before the game I was really, like, upbeat tempo, and I felt really good about how it was going to go today.  Regardless of the rain, receivers did a great job catching the ball and it's a testament to how good our offense is.
Q. Dwayne, what's been the biggest adjustment for you in this role as a starter?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Probably the biggest adjustment is just being prepared every day as the guy and just going into practice, going into meetings.  You know, being ready for that game that week.  And just like Coach Day has done a great job preparing me for that.  That's probably the biggest adjustment for me.
Q. Kind of switched the focus around.  Last week it was Terry McLaurin.  This week, Johnnie.  All of those guys capable of going deep at any time?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Everybody, the thing I told the receivers that doesn't matter what game it is or what day of practice it is, anybody can get the ball.  And whether it's Terry one week or anybody else another week, I just want them to run the routes like they're getting the ball every single time and calling the play.
Q. You're kind of like room service; you lay it right in there.  It's like room service.  You just --
DWAYNE HASKINS: Yeah.
Q. (Inaudible) the man coverage and --
DWAYNE HASKINS: We've seen a lot of quarters film, so we were trying to plan up some post routes today.  Just being able to, with the weather and seeing Johnnie get open like that, it's a lot of fun for me.  Basically he's wide open for me from that perspective.  Johnnie did a great job today.
Q. You got your first two starts under your belt, a lot of touchdowns, very few mistakes, excuse me.  You've been a part of this team for a few years now, you've seen big time atmospheres been a part of runs deep in November.  How excited are you for next weekend to step into a prime time game that the entire country's going to be watching?  And how ready do you feel after the two games that you had for a challenge like that against TCU?
DWAYNE HASKINS: I'm very excited.  Team's very excited.  We're going to use this week as a great preparation for TCU on Saturday, and we're ready for them.
Q. I think everybody knew your arm and everything coming into this season.  Seems like you're seeing the field really well.  Just how comfortable are you looking out there and seeing where your guys are and deciding where to go with the ball?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Yeah.  Probably being here for three years now just being able to see guys like Marshon and Malik and Gareon in practice, and then going to the game and seeing the field, this doesn't feel -- it feels like second nature really.  Just whether we call a play, me and Coach are on the same page, we want to go with the ball every single time (indiscernible) with coverage and just dialing it up.
Q. Dwayne, speaking of Johnnie, some crazy stat from last year -- 23 catches, 10 touchdowns.  Have you ever seen a situation like that where a guy that so efficient every time scores a touchdown?
DWAYNE HASKINS: Johnnie is definitely a home run maker every time he touches the football.  That's with everybody; give them a good spot with the ball, they can take it to the house any time.  That's the thing for me is ball placement.
Q. You have a lot of new faces on the offensive line, guys in new spots and they're getting ready to go against a TCU team known for its defense and has a good defensive coach and a good defensive line.  Just what have you seen from the five guys in front of you here through two games, shows you that they're ready for what they're going to get next week?
DWAYNE HASKINS: I think they're doing a great job.  Today is a lot of blitzes and trying to pick up protection.  So it's getting ready for TCU, just calling the IDs out and getting the blitzes picked up, be ready for next week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT