U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2011
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on your round? 
 OLIN BROWNE: You know, I came in here yesterday, I hadn't driven my ball very well. Today I drove it a lot better, which set me up to be a little bit more aggressive with my iron play. I just had a nice day today. 

 Q. You've been hitting the irons pretty good all week, though. 
 OLIN BROWNE: I guess so. You know, I just want to get off to a good start today. It was kind of a slow start. I didn't make birdie until 4. For Mark, the same. 
 You know, when you're in this kind of a competition, what you want to do is make as many quality shots as you can, which is what I managed to do on the front nine. I messed up a tee shot on 9, but other than that, I played a really nice round.

 Q. It's got to be a lot of fun with Mark playing well, you're playing well. 
 OLIN BROWNE: You know, it elevates the group, especially the way we finished. Both times on 17 and 18, he birdied and then I birdied, then he birdied, then I birdied. It just -- it really makes it fun, and today was a terrific day. I really enjoyed myself, and I hope Mark did, as well.

 Q. Talk about the mindset. How confident are you entering the final round as the leader?
 OLIN BROWNE: I feel good. I've played solidly all week, I've been the leader all week, so I'm going to do the same things I've been doing all week. I'm going to try and come out tomorrow and play just as well as I did today.

 Q. How tough is it to go wire to wire, though? 
 OLIN BROWNE: I don't have any idea. (Laughter.)

 Q. Are you finding it's difficult --
 OLIN BROWNE: I was almost wire to wire at Deutsche Bank in '05. I mean, I was leading after the third nine. But look, every day is a different day. You wake up, you feel good some days, you don't feel good other days. I'm hoping I feel great tomorrow and I come out and have a nice day.

 Q. Did you do anything different the last week or two that you found --
 OLIN BROWNE: Secret. (Laughter.) No, I haven't. I actually got a nice tip from Michael Allen on the driving range about my setup, and it's carried over into my putting. I've really felt comfortable on the greens, and I think that's critical in this kind of a championship, right, especially on greens like this where even if you hit a good shot, sometimes you're going to be in a tough place. And so I feel like I'm rolling the ball really nicely, and I've been picking some pretty decent lines. 
 You know, other than that, not really. Just trying to hit as many quality golf shots as I can hit and not be too hysterical about it when I'm out there.

 Q. Did you find the greens the same, better today? There was a lot of balls going in the hole. 
 OLIN BROWNE: Well, I mean, I think part of that is setup. Yesterday I thought the pins were pretty challenging, and today they moved some tees around and they put some pins in some different spots, and I just think some days the pins are more accessible than others. I imagine tomorrow is going to be all the challenge we want. 
 I just think this is a terrific golf course and a terrific venue, and I'm just excited to be in this position. How are my clichés, good? Beautiful. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT