U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2011
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A 7-under and towards the end of the day.   
 OLIN BROWNE: Well, I obviously played a really nice solid round of golf. I drove my ball really well. I hit one bad tee shot today and that cost me on the back nine on 16. But overall I drove my ball nicely.   
 I had reasonably good numbers with my irons, and really it was a flurry at the end of the round, more or less. The first ten holes I'm only 1-under par. It's hard to tell what happened on the back, or the second nine. But it's a great start. I love it.  
  
  Q. How is it the first day when you see your name at the top of the leaderboard at the U.S. Senior Open? Does that do anything for you?   
 OLIN BROWNE: I haven't looked yet. But this is a great championship. I've done well in U.S. Opens before, and I would like to continue playing a bunch of these. There's lots of golf left. I'm not going to get all caught up in the hoopla today.   
 A really nice round of golf, tomorrow's a whole new day. I have to keep driving the ball like I did today, hitting quality iron shots and managing my way around the golf course.  
  
  Q. Inverness is tougher this year than it was in '03, and Lietzke won at minus 7. Here you match him in one day. Any comparison?   
 OLIN BROWNE: I wasn't here in '03, so I can't speak to that. Bruce is a great player. Any time you hoist the USGA Championship, you've played great golf. We can only take it as it comes to us.   
 Like I said, I was only 1-under at the turn, and then had a flurry on the second nine. You know, this game giveth and this game taketh back, so I'm not all that hysterical about it right now. I'm really pleased with where I am, but there is a lot of stuff to be done yet.  
  
  Q. Isn't that the nature of how this golf course is routed this year? Can you get it more on that front side where you scored?  
 OLIN BROWNE: Two par-5s, right, and I made two eagles on it. That's not going to happen every day, is it? So you take away the two threes there, and it's a very comfortable 3-under-par day. So I just happened to get the right holes at the right time today, and when that kind of thing happens, the dominos fall into place and you post a great number.   
 But it's not something you can expect on a regular basis. You've got to still work your way around this golf course, and the key is to get yourself in position off the tee.  
  
  Q. You're 1 off Vijay's course record. Did you have any knowledge out there where you stood in Inverness history?  
 OLIN BROWNE: No.  
  
  Q. You'll now play the course in its regular rotation the other three days. Will it be a psychology of getting a few birdies on the front knowing the back will be harder?   
 OLIN BROWNE: If you look at my statistics, I do better from 150 and over than I do from 150 and in. This golf course sets up nicely. I really like it.   
 Look, here's what you have to do: You step up to the first tee, and you hit the best shot you can hit. You go find where that ball is and you hit the best shot you can hit. When you find your ball on the green, you hit the best shot you can hit, and you navigate your way around the golf course doing that. Because this place will sneak up and bite you so fast, you won't know what hit you.  
 Golf in general is about patience, right, especially in a USGA Championship. So there's a lot to be thankful for today. I'm really pleased with the way I played, but there is a lot to be done yet.   
  
  Q. When is the last time you were in a position similar to this?   
 OLIN BROWNE: '05 at Pinehurst.  
  
  Q. What was that situation?   
 OLIN BROWNE: I was leading after the first round.   
  
  Q. How did it end?   
 OLIN BROWNE: With Rocco and I didn't play well on Sunday. Played with Michael Campbell and he won. Look, the nature of golf is you can play a marginal round of golf and shoot a good score or you can play a pretty good round of golf and shoot a mediocre score, or you can play a bad golf and get smoked. That's just golf.   
 The ball is round, the cups are set on the edges of things, the rough is deep, and it causes some problems. So a bounce here or there can have a big impact on your round.   
 I holed a wedge shot on No. 8, now you guys are acting like I'm the next thing. So it's just the way the game works, you know. I'm not losing my perspective on this. Long way to go. I'm going to go out and play the best round of golf I can play tomorrow and take it from there.  
  
  Q. You're the big thing until tomorrow.   
 OLIN BROWNE: Sunday.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT