VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 9, 2008
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRIS REIMER: 64. Like Richard said, you're sitting in this chair I guess 2005, maybe.  
 OLIN BROWNE: Yes.  
CHRIS REIMER: Probably one of your better rounds since then.  
 OLIN BROWNE: Hasn't been a glut this year, I can assure you.  
 CHRIS REIMER: What is it about this course or this tournament that works for you?  
 OLIN BROWNE: First of all, you know, I love the State of Texas. It's been really good to me and this golf course just fits my style of play, fits my eye and, you know, I played a nice, solid round of golf today. Didn't do anything extraordinary.   
 I didn't hit it stony all day long or make any ridiculous putts. I would like to have made a couple more. I don't I think you ever leave the golf course being satisfied with your day and I had -- I had a really nice day today. It was painless and fun for a change.  
 CHRIS REIMER: 18 greens in regulation. Got to be happy with that.  
 OLIN BROWNE: Can't complain about that.  
 CHRIS REIMER: Some questions.  
  
  Q. Over the years, you play a particular course again and again, do you see trends or changes or does it meet your eye the same every year?  
 OLIN BROWNE: Well, you know, the thing about this golf course is that it never plays the same because the wind is always different. We have days like Tuesday where I blew, it was brutal and then we had days like today which you're looking for a wind really half the time.  
 You know, I like playing here, I like the style of the golf course. I think the four par-3s on this golf course are as good as any four we have on Tour. I come here in a good frame of mind. I've had some success here. It's great to be back.  
  
  Q. It doesn't surprise you to be where you are.  
 OLIN BROWNE: Yes, it does.  
  
  Q. I'm saying at this tournament in particular to have 25 guys within three strokes?  
 OLIN BROWNE: That's the way it's going to be pretty much every week on Tour. There's so much depth on the Tour now that things don't spread out. This thing, you get off to a good start, that's all it is is a good start.   
 You got three more rounds and you want to improve each day because there are guys who are going to be running over your back trying to get in front of you.  
 Like I said, I like this golf course. It fits my eye and I'm happy to get to the start that I did.  
  
  Q. I guess what I was trying to say, you shoot -- you shot a great round today but still, you know, coming in to the Texas Open in particular you're going to have to go 20, 19, 20?  
 OLIN BROWNE: You're going to have to shoot a good score. If the wind blows 20 miles an hour everything it different. If the wind dies to nothing, everything it is different. Greens are softer than they have been. It's easier to get them close. They're not as smooth as I've seen them in years past.   
 You're not getting the benefit of every good shot. I hit some shots in there that were pretty close. Leave you scratching your head a bit. But, you know, overall, you expect it's going to be 16 to 20, 22, 23-under every year here.   
 That's pretty much what Tommy Armour set the record on Tour. What did he shoot? 26 is all? Hope it doesn't go that low.  
  
  Q. If it goes that low you're really having to work hard.  
 This tournament over the years has been the cure for what ails a lot of guys. You look at Eric Axley and Bart Bryant really a kickstart for him, Justin last year. His career, which hadn't been a bad career, but really took off again.  
 OLIN BROWNE: Has he only won three times here? Likes it here.  
  
  Q. He shot even. He's a slacker. Do you look at this -- does this tournament have that reputation, the tournament that kickstarts or winning does?  
 OLIN BROWNE: That's kind of something that I would think you would look in retrospect and maybe analyze. It's not something that people come in here saying everybody saved his career by playing great this week. I don't think that's the issue at all.  
 You can count on nice weather and nice conditions, you can count on a golf course that if you play well you can shoot a good score. If you don't play well you're going to be struggling.  
 I think that's what everybody wants. They want to see a golf course that they feel is fair. If you hit a quality shot you want to be rewarded for that shot.   
 You know, too often, you know, these modern golf course architects they try to set-up a course that rejects quality golf shots and makes people look and feel stupid when we play.  
 I just think this course has that kind of quality about it. It's a very fair course. If you hit good shots, you will be rewarded with quality opportunities. If you don't hit good shots, you're going to be in these trees and having a hard time making par.  
 I think that's anything you can ask. That's all you can ask.  
  
  Q. Did you go out to the TPC?  
 OLIN BROWNE: I haven't yet. Doesn't matter to me. I like Greg's stuff. I play at one of his courses at home and I think he does a good job with his architecture and, irrespective of that, I will always come back to San Antonio as long as I'm invited.  
 When we move there, I'll be the first guy to send in my commitment letter in.  
  
  Q. Mexican food?  
 OLIN BROWNE: Love it.  
  
  Q. How has life been since the Ryder Cup?  
 OLIN BROWNE: Not much different, just, you know, lot of people ask me questions about the Ryder Cup, which was an extraordinary experience. I just did a thing with Golf Channel about it.  
 I think the best way that I can characterize that week was words can't do it justice. The guys were just unbelievable. They played so well under such duress with so much riding on what they were doing.   
 I just can't thank each of them enough for being on the sidelines and getting them water when they wanted water and chauffeuring them to the next hole when they needed a ride or whatever.   
 They were great. It was just a terrific experience. PGA of America was great and being an assistant to Paul, who is my very good friend, was terrific. We all had a great time.  
  
  Q. Did it take you a little while to come down? Did you need a week or so to kind of --  
OLIN BROWNE: Yeah. It's hard to explain but, you know, we're so caught up with results in this country. Everything on TV or in the media or whatever, on paper is all about what happened. It's not about how it happened.  
 You know, it was a two year process to get to the Sunday where the Ryder Cup was in American hands again and so it wasn't the kind of thing where just it was a Sunday afternoon occurrence. There was a lot of build up to, long ride up the hill.  
 It took me a few days to, you know, mellow out from it. It was just -- it was a wonderful high. Just a wonderful experience.  
  
  Q. Talk about your round today. 18 greens in regulation. How long has it been since you've done that?  
 OLIN BROWNE: Who knows? Forever. It's not often. I hit fairways, I hit all the fairways often but there's always one green that I hit the fringe or -- it was solid with the irons today. I was pleased.  
 CHRIS REIMER: Come Sunday we're going to see you in the final group riding your driver down the first fairway?  
 OLIN BROWNE: I've got a bum knee. I don't have "Booze Flare" for that. Every time he takes off he's he knows he's got a retard. I'll worry about making the best swings that I can make. We'll see what happens after that.  
 CHRIS REIMER: Anything else?  
  
  Q. Maybe a belt buckle?  
 OLIN BROWNE: A belt buckle? I'm not a belt buckle guy. If Anthony wants to send me one for good luck, I'll look in my locker Sunday morning.  
 CHRIS REIMER: Thank you very much.  
 OLIN BROWNE: Thank you guys very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT