TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2007
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Olin Browne in after a second consecutive 67, a little different than yesterday.  People are  talking about the conditions out there and how much the wind has been a factor today. 
 OLIN BROWNE: The wind is exactly opposite what it was yesterday.  All the hard holes were downwind yesterday, all the hard holes are into the wind today, so it's an entirely different golf course. 

 Q.  Bogey, bogey, eagle, eagle start. 
 OLIN BROWNE: From looking at my stats, I've gotten my eagles for the year out of the way, apparently. (Laughing).  10 is a tough hole to start on, especially with that north wind.  The wind is straight left to right and you're guarding against losing your second shot off the green to the right, especially with that back pin because there's no angle to the flag if you miss the green to the right, so I kind of overcooked one and was in the bunker, tough bunker shot, didn't get it up and down. 
 11, I was trying to figure out the wind and switched clubs a couple of times and then picked the wrong one, which is something I'm prone to do.  I hit it in the bunker, thought I hit a really good bunker shot, ended up about 10 feet and just missed the putt. 
 12, I hit one of those shots that you hit once a year where it just comes off perfectly, just like it was planned.  And everyone is yelling, "Go in," and usually that one ends up two to three feet behind the hole, and you think, man, that was close, but this one dropped and got me going for the today. 
 13, I had 240 to the pin and hit my 7-wood in there about 20 fee, 22 feet, right below the hole.  It was one of those lines you can see really nicely, and I hit a good putt and it wiggled its way into the hole so it got me right in the game right out of the box. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Do you recall back-to-back eagles in your career? 
 OLIN BROWNE: I don't.  I have had two in one round a couple of different times, but back-to-back, I can't recall anywhere. 

 Q.  What did you hit on that hole, a sand wedge from 115? 
 OLIN BROWNE:  Whatever my yardage was, yes, 56-degree sand wedge. 

 Q.  Has anything changed since the last time you've won?  It's been a while since you've won here. 
 OLIN BROWNE:  Yes, 10 years older.  Stuff doesn't work like it used to. 

 Q.  The familiarity aspect has to be -- 
 OLIN BROWNE: I really like this golf course, especially with the wind.  It swirls a lot, it's capricious out here, so you have to be attentive to what the wind is doing.  After you've hit it in the water once or twice out here, thinking it's one way and it's actually another, you learn to figure that out. 
 Like on 16 today, instead of taking the exact club and hit it stoney, I took one extra and chipped it up there and hit it 30 feet past the hole and two-putted my way off the green.  You have to do stuff like that out here, especially under conditions like today.  This golf course is playing very -- it's edgy today.  You're going to get good birdie opportunities, but you're also going to have your head handed to you on a couple of holes if you're not careful. 
 Like I said, the hard holes are into the wind, yesterday they were downwind.  You're finishing with tough conditions on 17 and 18 in, too.  And for that matter, 7 and 8, and 9 in, too.  It's a little bit difficult.  But again, the par 5s are straight downwind today, especially for the longer hitters, they will be hitting mid to short irons.  Things will firm up this afternoon.  So you can get some opportunities, but you're going to pay some penalty out there, too. 

 Q.  Having played here so much, does it help, especially on a day like this? 
 OLIN BROWNE: 15, 20 years of play out here, you get to see all the different conditions.  It definitely helped me.  In particular, 16, you learn what the wind is doing there.  You learn where you need to hit your shot, where you want to miss it, so absolutely. 
 I had some really good up-and-downs today.  It was one of those days where things just went my way.  I holed another bunker shot on 5, but I didn't birdie 6, straight downwind, had a pretty shot easy shot in there, and I played too smart a shot, maybe, too cautious a shot, let's say.  I was in that bunker short and right, which is a difficult shot, you're downwind, you have to engage it just right.  I didn't quite do that.  I'm not displeased to shoot 3 under, especially after bogey, bogey. I'm not displeased at all. 

 Q.  (No microphone)  do you think that gives you an edge mentally going into the same tournament every year? 
 OLIN BROWNE:  No, I doubt it.  I would certainly love to be a two-time winner here, there are some great two-time winners here, Azinger, Corey, but I just love coming here.  This is my first win on tour.  That has a special place for me.  Frankly, I was disappointed when Travelers saved this event, because I was going to be on the Champions Tour and I thought I was going to get to play it again for another 15 years.  I was going to be happy with that, but that's not the case. 
 One of the guys mentioned, "Hey, thanks for coming back."  And I said, "I'm coming back as long as you guys invite me.  I love coming here."  You come to a play with good memories and good feelings about it, it sets the table for the week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT