U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 12, 2016
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Next on the podium, Olin Browne.  Plus 1 today, plus 1 for the Championship.
Q. You're in the hunt, and you've been there before.
OLIN BROWNE: Well, I had a really good day going, and I kind of let it get away from me.  Messed up No. 8.  But I played a lot of good shots, and my putter really cooperated today.  When I got myself in trouble, I mostly extricated myself from it.  So it was a nice day today.
Would have preferred to have gotten a couple under like I had it early, but this course is relentless.  So take what we get and go forward.
Q. Tell me about the birdie run, some of the key strokes in that run.
OLIN BROWNE: Well, I hit -- I guess I hit it pretty good.  The greens firmed up quite a bit this afternoon compared to yesterday, as one would expect.  I just hit some quality iron shots, but you really couldn't afford to take the risk and go too close to the hole.
So I made about a 22-footer on 3, and then I hit a perfect shot on 4, which is like accidental.  You don't hit perfect shots on purpose.  Had about a 15-footer right up the gut and made it.
The very next hole, I drove it in a divot off the tee, but it was a perfect lie for the shot shape and the shot that I wanted to hit.  I just had to strike it solidly, and the wind and the slope was going to drive it to hole.  I picked the right club and hit it eight or nine feet for that putt.
The next hole, the par 5, I drew kind of a funny line in the fairway and made a bogey when I was going for the green in two.  That was really disappointing.  It kind of clipped the momentum for a while.
I had a really good look on 7, didn't make it, singed the hole and then made a silly double on 8.  I had a very poor tee shot, probably my worst shot of the day.  But I hit a good smart recovery shot and left myself a good number.  I played the shot that I had to play, and the wind laid down completely.  At that time, it was worth a club and a half.  I hit it exactly a club and a half past the pin and didn't get it up and down, so I made 6.
Then it was just a question of minding your business on the rest of the day, which I did, and made another errant swing on 7.  I made a couple of poor swings.  I'm going to fix that right now.
Again, I made a really good save on 17, hit it in the water, then got up and down for 4.  So some good mixed in the with the bad.
Q. It doesn't seem to be the kind of course you're going to run away and hide from the field?
OLIN BROWNE: That's fairly accurate.  It's a great golf course, and it's got lots of trouble.  You can make some birdies out here, but you have to hit really, really good shots, and then you have to make really good strokes.  You have to match the line with the speed.  It's not easy to read.
I don't know if the weather's coming in as predicted.  I don't know if it's mellowed out or if it's still going to be crummy.  If things soften up, I imagine that will offer more opportunities.  The greens were really quite firm this afternoon, especially when you're downwind to some of those tight hole locations.  So take what you get and keep moving forward.
Q. Going off two tees tomorrow because of the weather and playing in threesomes, does that change anything that you might do tomorrow?
OLIN BROWNE: No.  I mean, you got to play 18 holes tomorrow, and then you got to play 18 holes on Sunday.  Hopefully, we'll get it in by Sunday night.  I see it's still 80 percent tomorrow and Sunday.
No, I mean, it's -- I don't know how many guys are making the cut, though.  If there are a million guys making the cut, that will really throw a wrench into things.  How many guys are?
Q. (Inaudible).
OLIN BROWNE: That's not so bad.  If it goes to 100 guys going off two tees, it will be a torture test out there.  We'll just take what comes according to the weather, and hopefully, we'll get it in tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT