DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2006
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Olin, for joining us for a couple minutes here in the media center.  You two bogeys back to back, but you found it back quickly finishing up with three birdies there on the front nine.  Talk about the conditions out there and how tough it was.
OLIN BROWNE:  Blustery conditions.  I don't know what the official wind gust tallies were but they were coming and going, and directionally so, as well.  Good day to pick spots, hope you guess right on the wind and make some nice par savers.
Q.  Just talk about when you left the golf course yesterday, the forecast was for gloom and doom and basically if you teed off in the afternoon, don't even show up.  How disconcerting was that?
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, I was going to Fenway last night so I couldn't have cared less what was going to happen today.  I had a great time last night with Seth Waugh and Paul Spangler and their wives and kids and a couple other people.  I hadn't been to Fenway in a number of years and I'm a fan, so it was a great experience for me.  I didn't give today a second thought.  Whatever happens happens.

Obviously I don't want to see any rain because the ball is just starting to go somewhere out there, and if it rains the place is going to play forever, which is not necessarily up my alley, but hey, you know what, tomorrow is tomorrow, and we'll see what happens.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, I won Colonial, which it blows there.  I live in south Florida, so I'm familiar with the wind.  I think everybody who's playing well would like to see a little wind.  People mis hitting their ball or not stroking the putts particularly well don't want to see any wind.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can you go through your round?  You started on 10.
OLIN BROWNE:  I started on 10.  I don't really remember how it started.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Birdie on 16.
OLIN BROWNE:  Yeah, gosh.  You know, what you're trying to do on a day like today is get a feel as the day progresses.  I made a very nice come backer for par after running it by on the first hole which opened it up for the day.  I hit some nice shots on 11, 12 and 13, but it was very difficult to get the ball close where they were.  The pins were short side to the wind, and we were hitting some longer shots into some of those flag locations.

But then I hit it in a bunker on 15, made a good up and down.

16, 215 to the pin, I hit 3 iron and I had about an eight footer, a really, really nice shot, had about an eight footer and made it.  Turned at 1 under then.

Bogeyed No. 1 and No. 2.  I missed my only fairway today on No. 1, which is a little irritating because with that pin over there and downwind, you need to be coming out of the fairway to be able to control your ball, and I did not make a good shot out of the rough and didn't make a good putt and then missed the next one.

Didn't hit a good layup on No. 2, chunked a 6 iron a little bit and had too much club coming into the green.  I had 136 yards and I tried to hit a little knock down 7 iron and I didn't get it up and down, which is frustrating.

I hit a great shot on 3, hit a 6 iron about three feet.

6, hit a 4 iron to about 12 or 14 feet behind the hole and made a left to right putt there.

I hit it about two feet on 7 with a lob wedge.

Then made a nice par save to end my round on No. 9, so it was a nice way to end the day.
Q.  Most of the guys have been saying all week that the course is playing significantly longer than it played last year.
OLIN BROWNE:  They're right.
Q.  You won it last year and it was fast and firm.  You're in contention halfway through on a course that's playing pretty long.  What does that say about the stability of your game right now?
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, two days doesn't make a tournament for starters.  It's nice to be in the position I'm in, but this year I have not played particularly well all four days of the week.  Now, if I've saved up enough karma to play well all four days this week, I'm all for it.  I'm going to come out tomorrow and try to do the same things that I did yesterday and today and see where that takes me.  I think tomorrow is going to be at least as difficult as it was today, maybe even more so.

I think the name of the game    this golf course isn't giving people a lot.  The name of the game is patience.  Control your ball, stay out of trouble, minimize your mistakes, putt as well as you can.

Tonight I'm going back to Boston, have a nice dinner and evaluate what's going to happen tomorrow.
Q.  What happened last night    what was the atmosphere at the park like when Papelbon came out of the game?
OLIN BROWNE:  It was a little subdued.  The Sox haven't had enough bad luck this year.  They've got to have some more, another injury.  Is there any update on it?  He tore a muscle?  For a guy who throws 95 miles an hour to come up lame on his throwing shoulder when he throws a fastball is a little spooky.  There was a certain amount of quiet, but I think that the fans have    they're ready for some more    believe me, it's not the first bad break the Sox have had this summer, so they weren't entirely taken by surprise.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
OLIN BROWNE:  Sure, I'd love to play with Tiger.  I love playing with Tiger Woods.  It's the best seat in the house.  It's history.  Tiger and I are amiable on the golf course, so yeah, I'd love to play with him.
Q.  Have you been paired with him much?
OLIN BROWNE:  Yes, I have, as a matter of fact.  Not recently, but Hartford and Colonial were my two successes early in my career, and he was at his peak there and we got paired an awful lot.  Billy Andrade seemed to be a third a lot of pairings.  Yeah, I've had some good pairings with Tiger and I enjoy playing with him.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT