DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2006
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Olin, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Deutsche Bank Championship.  I know you were here for media day a couple weeks ago, but I'm sure it's fun coming back to a place where you've had some really great memories.
OLIN BROWNE:  It's great to be here, and yes, it is fun to come back to a place where you've done well before.  A lot of hand shakes, a lot of pats on the back.  It's a lot of fun to be here.
Q.  How is the course playing?
OLIN BROWNE:  I haven't been out there yet today.  I played the Sox Pro Am on Tuesday and it was awful.  The condition of the course was wonderful, but it was cold and wet, and I kept looking at my caddie, "Buck, didn't we hit 9 iron here?"  And I had a 4 iron in my hand.  It was that kind of a day.

Hopefully the course will dry out a little bit.  I saw this morning on The Weather Channel that the storm is supposed to go a little bit west on the weekend so we might escape with our skin this weekend.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, I love the course when it's really long.  I'm such a long hitter (laughter) that I want the course to play about 8,500 yards, so I'm thrilled about it.  We'll make the best of it.  It'll be the same for everybody.  This golf course will equip itself well, I think.  I think it'll play more true to its yardage than last year.  It played quite fast.  I think overall the course is going to play quite long this year.
Q.  Tiger thought last year that the short hitters did quite well because there was no rough but it was difficult from the rough areas to hit anywhere close to the pin so there was a lot of run on the course.  How did that affect you and how did you survive it?
OLIN BROWNE:  I'm sorry, Tiger?
Q.  Woods.
OLIN BROWNE:  I've heard of him.  The course played fast last year, there's no question about it.  The rough wasn't that severe.  The fairways here are generous, but when the course plays fast the greens are firm, too.  You still have to be pretty precise with your iron play, and I think that I struck the ball nice and crisply with my irons last year and gave myself opportunities where I could compete against guys like him.  I think he's right in that regard.  I think this year you're going to see a stronger challenge for players like myself.
Q.  In general is that part of your game strong right now in your estimation?
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, if you look at my performance this year, I don't think any part of my game is particularly strong right now.  I'm looking to recapture some good vibes by being here this week.  I seem to have one or two good rounds every week and one or two really not good rounds every week, and I'm trying to get over that hump, so we'll see where that goes.
Q.  Just coming back, does it give you some kind of momentum?
OLIN BROWNE:  It's great coming back here, and obviously having played as well as I did here last year I have great memories and it's very uplifting.  There are only a handful of tournaments you go to each year that you're really excited about playing, and this happens to be one of them.  Yes, I'm in a great frame of mind and really excited about being here and looking forward to playing tomorrow.
Q.  On that other guy that I mentioned
OLIN BROWNE:  Tiger somebody.
Q.  Is this the best for him now because he had been to the mountain and then gone through hard times and now he has done what other pros I assume really respect, which is fight your way back?
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, I think everybody    we've all just been waiting for poor Tiger to catch a break.  You know, he struggled for so long.  We're all just doing the best we can to support him, because hell, without our support, who would he be?  He'd really be struggling.

We're very proud of him.  He's done a wonderful job.  We're so happy for him that he's managed to hang in there until he could catch this good run because God knows, he struggled for so long.

I think you'll have to ask Tiger how he's playing.  Tiger has always felt like when he tees it up on Thursday he's the guy to beat.  He felt that way the first tournament he showed up.  Initially people were quite taken aback by that, but I think he's proven his point over and over.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT