BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 19, 2006
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH:  Olin, 3 under par, 10 under for the tournament with a 69 today at La Quinta.  You're in great shape after two rounds.  If you can comment on your round for us, please.
OLIN BROWNE:  It wasn't a very easy day today.  The wind was up and down, and kind of difficult pulling the right club or picking a good line.  But, you know, making good, scrambling pars and might have missed a couple of putts for birdie.  But I balanced it out by making some good saves.  So, all in all, not a bad day.
JOHN BUSH:  Take us through your card, starting with a birdie on No. 11.
OLIN BROWNE:  The par 5, you know, the wind was really howling at that point and it was difficult to pick a good line off the tee.  So I was kind of struggling from the get go.  I managed to make about a 30-foot putt for birdie that really kind of broke the ice.  It was kind of nice.

Made a bogey on 14.  Again, same wind direction, bad shots, bad chip, not a great putt, easy 5.

16, hit a 3 wood off the tee, hit 6 iron to about 17 or 18 feet and was a pretty simple putt.  One of my playing partners had been on my same line so I made it, it was nice.

Birdie on 17, the par 4.  I hit a good tee shot, hit a good iron shot in there about ten feet with a 9 iron and made it.

7, I hit a really good 8 iron in there, kind of rolled over the edge of the hole, people jumping up and down like it went in and I had about a 9 footer and made it.
Q.  Is one of the secrets to being successful in this tournament is never lose too much of a contact with who is out in front because so much can happen?
OLIN BROWNE:  No.  I think the real success to playing this tournament is just if you get a day where you can go low, don't be afraid of going low.  Go as deep as you can, because you're going to have an occasional day like today that's tough.

I don't know what's leading the tournament, but the wind was up today.  And if you're not sharp or if you get a bad break, you can end up going the wrong direction relative to par.  So the secret is to just keep plugging along and doing the best as you can and go as low as you can when you get a chance.
Q.  It seems like a lot of the leaders are guys who have not been over at the Classic Club yesterday or shot a really great round
OLIN BROWNE:  That's a big surprise, isn't it.
Q.  You've got that golf course coming up on Saturday; you go to PGA West tomorrow.  Do you feel like that's something looming out there for you or did you get a practice round in here and feel good with the golf course?
OLIN BROWNE:  Yeah, I got a practice round in.  I don't think anybody knows what to expect out there.  Most of us haven't seen it, and so it's going to be    you know, you might pick a good line and hit a good shot and end up in a bad place.  Or you might pick a bad line and hit a bad shot and end up in a good place.  The wind could be one way one day and it could be nonexistent the next, so it's just hard to know.

My round there is two days away, and my only concern is my first tee shot tomorrow on the Palmer Course.
Q.  You probably haven't played here enough to form an opinion, only a practice round, but does this    from what you understand, is this course, the Classic Course, does it fit in with the feel and playability with the other ones in the tournament?
OLIN BROWNE:  I certainly hope so.  I'm sure that's the intent of the board and the Chrysler people and the tournament.  I think we'll all miss courses like Indian Wells and Tamarisk and all of those courses that we've become familiar with and they are wonderful golf courses.  There's a lot of history on those golf courses.  This tournament has been ongoing for a long, long time.  Arnold Palmer played those tracks, Jack Nicklaus played those tracks, Seve Ballesteros played those tracks, and Greg Norman, too.

I'm one of the kinds of people that like the way we've had it for all these years and these courses are familiar and they are a lot of fun.  I'm sure that the Classic Club will be a wonderful test of golf, and we're all looking forward to coming back for years, but it's not really something that I've considered much.
JOHN BUSH:  Thanks, Olin.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT