BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 18, 2006
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  Why don't we go through your round first.
OLIN BROWNE:  I birdied the first three holes which is really nice, all of them pretty close putts.  I made a bogey on No. 5, which was my own stupidity.

Birdied 6, hit a nice shot in there about ten feet and made the putt, 12 feet.

I think 8, I birdied 8.  I hit it over the green in two and chipped it back to about four feet and made it.

I birdied 11.  Made a nice breaking putt there.  It was about a 12 foot putt that had good curl to it.

Then I don't think I birdied again until 15.  I made about an 8  or 10 footer.

Then 18, I got it up and down from the left edge of the green, made about a 6 footer.
TODD BUDNICK:  Just a continuation of your great year last year, or can you just talk a little about that?
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, I mean this year is a whole different year.  Tried to take some time off at the end of last year.  It was a great finish to the year for me.  Obviously very rewarding to get back in the winner's circle and I feel pretty good.

It's taken me a couple of weeks here to get my feet under me.  The wind was just howling in Hawaii a couple of weeks.  I actually felt like I lost my rhythm last week.  I didn't play very well.

My instructor, Jim Hardy, is here this week, or has been here this week and we've been working on it a little bit.  While I didn't feel all that secure with my game, he kept telling me that I was making good motions.  And today, I really hit the ball pretty decently.  I think I made one or two loose swings, but overall pretty please the with the way I struck the ball and made a couple putts.
TODD BUDNICK:  You went a few years where you were struggling with your game.  When is the last time you felt this good about the way you're playing?
OLIN BROWNE:  Yeah, well, I did struggle for a number of years.  Really, most of last year, I felt like I was hitting the ball decently.  I just wasn't doing it for an entire tournament.  Towards the end of the season, I put together, you know, more complete tournaments instead of just playing a good round or two.

It's been fun.  It's been fun to play well and it's fun to get needled by some of the guys.  You know, it's what we're here for.
Q.  Can you talk about how important it is to start your year by playing solidly and kind of set you up for the rest of the schedule?
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, you know, you don't ever want to play poorly on any week.  So if I'm at a tournament, I'm committed to playing in that tournament.  I'm trying to show up prepared and I'm trying to get comfortable with the conditions around the golf course and play well that week.

Obviously any time you get off to a good start, just like I did with my round today, birdieing the first three holes, any time you get off to a good start, whether it's in a round or in a tournament or beginning of the year, it does have a tendency to relax you and allow you to just kind of swing freely and comfortably.

So a good week early in the year is always a good thing.
Q.  This tournament is known for some really low scores, can you talk a little bit about what type of score it's going to take to do well in the tournament?
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, I think that the big question mark this year is going to be what the scores are at the Classic Club.  It's my understanding, I've only seen it one time, I played it yesterday.  It's my understanding that the wind is a potential factor over there, and I think judging. From the scores today, people haven't gone very low over there yet.  But I don't know if that's a factor of us not knowing the course, or of the conditions.

So I don't think we'll have any clue what the winning score is until somebody posts it on Sunday.  I guess maybe we'll have a pretty good idea after the fourth round.

Like I said, conditions over there are going to dictate what the winning score might end up being.
TODD BUDNICK:  Olin, thank you very much for your time and good luck the west rest of the week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT