THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 22, 2016
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A golf course that most players are describing as making them uncomfortable, you seem very comfortable?  
OLIN BROWNE: We had a nice day today.  There's not much wind.  And if you can get off to a good start, sets a tone for the day, and I was able to do that.   
It's just a question of sticking to your guns out here.  This golf course is the kind of golf course that can make you think awful thoughts, and if you can stay away from that, you have a chance.   
 Q.  How do you avoid those awful shots?  
OLIN BROWNE: I'm not sure I have the answer to that.  Some days you're better at it than others, and today I had a decent day.  Just one of those kind of things where if, sometimes you get good numbers and a good vibe and the wind is down or whatever, and you can feel what you're doing.  I really hit only one indifferent shot today, so I was very, very pleased with the way I played.   
 Q.  You put yourself in a very nice position on the weekend, going into the weekend, rather.  Is the buzzword "patience" this week?  
OLIN BROWNE: Well, it certainly is on a golf course like this.  You cannot force the issue.  So there are a lot of lay-ups off the tees.  You just have to be smart.  I don't know that it's patience as much as recognising the situation and executing the appropriate shot.   
Patience is something that you have to exercise when things aren't going your way, but this is the kind of golf course where patience doesn't do you any good if you're not hitting quality shots.   
So you have to hit shots to specific targets, and you've just got to pick quality targets.  If you're going to challenge some of these bunkers for example, and the fairways or some of the corners, then you'd better execute the shot you're planning on executing.   
On the other hand, you can lay back and give yourself a significantly longer shot into the greens.  But as long as you hit the ball on the button, you're able to manage your way around the course, especially on a day like today.   
 Q.  Is there any strength in your game that you're going to be leaning on for the next two rounds?  
OLIN BROWNE: I'm going to do exactly what I just said.  I'm going to try and hit the shot that I try and execute.  I'm going to try and think clearly.  That's the key to playing good golf, keeping the demons outside of the six inches between your ears, and we'll see where it goes from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT