DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2005
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Olin, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Deutsche Bank Championship.

Great start on the back nine there, 29 on the back nine, and a solid front nine.  Why don't you just talk about your day today and kind of compare it to yesterday.
OLIN BROWNE:  The course is playing quite a bit differently than it did yesterday.  It's much faster and the greens are starting to firm up.  I thought yesterday morning the greens were quite slick but that's because they had just been rolled and cut.  But today they had overall speed.  But the course is playing beautifully.  It's in wonderful shape and I think that the changes that were made were terrific.  This is how the course should play.  It should play like this.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  You've had some great success over the summer and you're continuing, can you talk about your season.
OLIN BROWNE:  Great success means you get to hold a trophy.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  You're heading that direction.
OLIN BROWNE:  But I'm heading that direction.  I've been playing well since June and I just need to get past when I play well finishing 15th to 20th.  So all I can do is keep stepping up at the plate and wait for my turn.

I hit the ball solidly today, I only made one bogey and it was a 3 putt.  Looking forward to playing tomorrow and the next day.
Q.  We've talked about it before but can you talk about playing this golf course your style, and Jeff Brehauts and what you're up against playing a golf course like this?
OLIN BROWNE:  It's my overpowering length that is such an asset on a golf course like this.  You look at my stats I'm about 200th in driving distance on the Tour.  The course is playing well and it's playing fast.  I've hit the ball solidly for the last couple of days and had enough opportunities and taking advantage of a few.  I made some nice putts today and hope I can continue that.

I can't emphasize enough how well prepared this course is, and I know that there was a drought up here all summer, basically, and then we got torrential rains, I don't know if it was a residual from the hurricane or what but Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, the skies opened up.  I don't know how many inches of rain we got here, four or five.  The course if in great shape.  Kudos to the super and his staff and everybody who is helping out with that.
Q.  What happened from missing the cut last week and all of the sudden shooting 9 under over two days?
OLIN BROWNE:  I was a little flat on Friday last week.  I can't really explain it.  I didn't feel like I played poorly.  I played a nice round of golf Thursday, made a couple of bad swings and managed to turn a few under par round into an even par round.  Then I came out and 3 putted the first two holes and never looked forward.   I don't know, I mean, it was disappointing to miss the cut at Hartford.  I love playing there.  I wish I had played well.  I feel like my game is pretty sound and I'd like to have had a chance.  Look what Brad did, made the cut on the button and ended up hoisting the trophy.  I'm in a little better position this week and looking forward to the next couple of days.
Q.  Is any part of your game better this week than last?
OLIN BROWNE:  Nothing I can really put my hands on.  If I had a lot of answers I would be doing a lot better than I am.   I don't understand why I don't play better half the time.  But, you know, I've gotten off to a good start this week and I'm looking for a good finish.
Q.  Can you talk about the first nine or ten holes in terms of ball striking?
OLIN BROWNE:  Yeah, I hit the ball really nice the first    what did I shoot, I shot 29 on the first nine.  I burned the edge on three other putts and then I birdied 10.  I hit good shots.

The thing about this golf course is it's got some variety to it.  It's got some holes that will browbeat you, but then it's got some holes that will give you a chance to score.  I happened to birdie 11, which is ridiculous; it's 240 or whatever it is up the hill.  You know, when you do something like that, it's a shot and a half, really, and it's such a boost mentally.  To have something like that happen early in the round like that on one of the hardest holes on the course, it certainly gives you a little boost.

Ball striking wise, I hit in the fairway, hole 9, and gave myself some chances and managed to sneak it over the bunkers on 18 and was able to go for the green in two.  I hit it pin high and got up and down.  Overall it was just solid.  Nothing spectacular.  I didn't hit it a foot or anything.  But I hit it close ish between five and 15 feet or five and 20 feet and made a few of those putts.  I did make a good putt on 16 from above the hole.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Let's go through your round.
OLIN BROWNE:  11, I hit a 7 wood about six or seven feet.  13, I made an 18 or 20 footer.

15, I hit it about    I don't know.  Where was the pin on 15?  I hit it ten feet and made it.

16, I hit a really good shot.  My ball mark was about four inches from the hole, but that's just one of those holes, you have to hitch your britches and hit a good one.  I was about 20 feet behind the hole and made it.

17, I hit a sand wedge in there about 2 1/2 feet.

18, I got up and down from the fringe and had about, I don't know, a 15 inch putt.

Then 1, I hit it about 12 or 14 feet and made it and then that was the end of my birdie run.
Q.  What happened with the bogey?
OLIN BROWNE:  I 3 putted from 25 feet.  The green had more pace than I was anticipating.  I hit a good putt, I just hit it three feet by and then I hit a good putt and missed it.  Just happens, one of those bogeys you're a little irritated about.
Q.  What was different today than yesterday, yesterday you had no shot
OLIN BROWNE:  I hit it in the rough yesterday off the tee.  Today I just made up my mind that if I went in the bunker off the tee, I was going to pitch out and do the best I could.  I just eked it over the bunker down the bottom of the hill and had 230 or something like that to the hole so I was able to go for it.
Q.  What are your connections to New England?
OLIN BROWNE:  My mom is from Providence, and all of her family, so she was born and raised here.  So summers on the Cape type thing as a kid.  We came up for ten years when I was a kid, so I consider myself half New Englander.
Q.  Inaudible?
OLIN BROWNE:  Some of them do.  There was a big article in the Hartford paper the year I won Hartford, so I had a lot of people pulling for me at Hartford and it was the whole New England connection, worked at New Seebrea (ph) when I was a kid, blah, blah, blah.  It's great.  This place has been starved for a golfing events.  It loves sports, it's a great sports town and it's riding high, between the Patriots, the Sox and hockey is coming back.  Now there's golf in this area, too.  It's great to be a part of it. .
Q.  What's the best thing you took away from the whole Pinehurst experience?
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, I played great at Pinehurst.  I played with the guy that won the tournament, and I played with the defending champion the day before that.  You know, I didn't match him shot for shot, but I was there on most of it.  It's as hard a golf course as I've ever seen and as hard of a golf course as I hope I ever see, and everything else is easy after that    well, not easy, but easier.

You know, the U.S. Open, it's the pinnacle    well, any of the majors, any of those four would be the pinnacle in golf.  Everybody who has won one or two or three or however many it is they get a chance, they are as proud as they can be of it.  I didn't get to win the tournament, but it validated all of the things I've been working on for the last year and a half.  You get into that environment and you're naked out there and there's nowhere to hide, so you either step up and hit the shot our don't.  The only thing you can do is commit as completely as you can.  If you've done that, you've done your job.

And the other things happen the way they happen.  If you get a 21 5 yard shot out of the rough and you're hitting a squirter with a 6 iron that leaks its way over a bunker and runs up to eight feet and you tap in the putt, you've hit the great shot and you've got the great result.  But you can also hit a great shot, on an insane golf course like that, where you miss your spot by five feet and you roll down the hill and you're making 6.

I struggled on Sunday, didn't shoot a very good score, but I committed to every shot and I played really well Sunday.  I hit the ball much more solidly Sunday.  You couldn't see it in the box score, but there are days when you do a lot of things right and you end up empty handed.  And then there are days when balls are bouncing off of trees and putts are lipping in.  I can't explain it.  That's the way this game is.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT