BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2005
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Great round today, just start off talking about your round a little bit today.
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, I got off to a good start, birdied the first hole, lipped one out on the second hole but birdied the third hole.  Any time you can get under par early on this golf course gives you a little momentum.  The course is in such wonderful condition, so all you're trying to do is give yourself as many opportunities as you can, and I managed to take advantage of a few good shots today.  So, pleased with my score.

Actually I had my better round the first day and I played really well yesterday and didn't get much out of it.  I made a bogey and 17 pars which is insane out here.  I worked on my putting a little bit yesterday, all aspects of my game really.  I managed to capitalize today, I didn't yesterday.

I didn't look at the board today; I didn't care.  I figure the lead is going to be 20 under at the end of the day.  I'm at 13, I'm just trying to play as well as I can, I had to shoot a good score today.  I hit some good putts that went go in and hopefully I can play well again.

Vijay and Tiger have a six  or seven shot lead on you, you know what I'm saying, if by end of the day 15 under par is leading the tournament, then I'm in the hunt.  But I think that 18 or 20 is going to be the leading score at the end of the day.  I'd be shocked if it weren't.

The last one was really nice, 2 1/2 days, I went 25 holes without making a birdie, and the last 2 1/2 days, you're going to make one when you make one.  All of my birdies today were inside of 15 feet probably and I just happened to finally make one that was over 20.  So kind of nice to do it and it's great to end the day on a birdie.  I'm excited about playing tomorrow.
Q.  Does that take the pressure off
OLIN BROWNE:  Well, there isn't any pressure taken off, because everybody    I think everybody expects that 25 under has a chance to win this tournament.  I'm 13 under now, so I'm just looking to play better.  Every day that I go out there, if I can play better than I played the day, before I'm going to be in good shape.

So I don't have any delusions about 13 under being near the lead by the end of the day.  You've got the two best players in the world who are going out at 12  and 13 under par.  Like I said, I'd be shocked if 18 or 20 under is not in the lead at the end of the day.

Any time you get on these golf course and get on these greens, get close enough shots and get chances, you can make a run.  Like I said, 25 under; so I have 12 shots to go from 13, and 60 is pie in the sky.  I shot a 59 earlier this year, but not out here.  Maybe I can do it again tomorrow, who knows?  The bottom line is, I did not shoot a good score yesterday and it was important to come back with a good score again today and at least move up the board again.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT