U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2005
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








OLIN BROWN:  Hello Pinehurst.  Hello everybody.
Q.  How was the game?
OLIN BROWN:   I drove it pretty well.  I think I missed three fairways, but I drew a nice line on one of them and advanced it to the green.  I think I hit a fair number of greens, and when I didn't hit it I missed it in the right place.  It was a management day.  I hit the ball solidly, I was pleased.  And I stroked the my putter really good.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 OLIN BROWN:  The greens are in wonderful condition.  There are some extremely challenging hole locations.  I think this golf course epitomizes what the USGA wants in their championship, which is a golf course that challenges every aspect of the player's game, and including the mental component.  So it's a great venue?
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 OLIN BROWN:  I was actually hitting balls on the range and I hit 40 balls.  I've been struggling with my game since the qualifier last week.  I got a little loose with it, and I was uncomfortable, but yesterday it fell into place.  It felt good.  I spent time on my chipping and putting, I didn't know I was going to hit as many solidly as I did.  And it was a fun day to play.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 OLIN BROWN:  Well, I actually asked the guys at the scoring tent how to withdraw.  These guys get upset if you don't handle yourself properly, I wanted to do it in the right fashion.  And they said "you tell us, and we'll inform the officials."  I decided to give it another nine holes.  I felt like I was playing well.  I'm glad I did.  I thought about it, but it was more like a    "I can't quit" type of thing.
Q.  How did you do on the first nine?
OLIN BROWN:  I missed the cut, I can't remember.  I was 2 under, and I got on the bogey train, and that was about that.
Q.  On the front 9?
OLIN BROWN:  Shot 30 on the front 9 and decided I had to keep going.  Sorry, I didn't get the question.
Q.  Was this a lesson in perseverance?
 OLIN BROWN:  That's kind of cliche, what it is is what I do.  The only reason    I wasn't going to withdraw because I was ticked off about playing poorly, I was going to withdraw because it was hot that day, I was playing at Congressional, that's a hard golf course, as you know.  The qualifier was going to end up taking a lot out of me physically, and I felt like I would be better off preserving what I had left for the golf tournament.  But like I said, I figured I'd play another 9 and see how it went.  If I shot par on that 9    but I didn't, so I kept going.
Q.  You said you shot 59 and you lost it, and you put together a good round here?
 OLIN BROWN:  I put the ball together well today.  I'm not going to waste time hitting balls and doing stuff here today.  I'm going to chip and putt    the guys in the afternoon, I see the wind is picking up a fraction, and the pins are on the high spots, there aren't any low spots on the green.  If you're on the low spot you're in a collection area, so it's going to be about chipping and putting so I'm going to work on that.
Q.  Birdies and bogeys?
 OLIN BROWN:  Birdied No. 2, left it short.  Birdied No. 4, hit it in the first cut off the tee, and I was debating with my caddie, Teddy Scott, what should I do there.  We thought if I could get a real heater, I might run it up in front of the green.  It came out to a perfect layup number and hit a wedge and made birdie.

I birdied 9.  I hit a 6 iron in there about 2 feet.

Made a bogey somewhere else.  Bogeyed 6, yeah.  The par 3s on this golf course are brutal.  They're long and they're very demanding.  I hit a pretty good shot that caught the slope and came back down.  The pin was in a position where I didn't feel I could take an aggressive line and be aggressive with my chip.  I made a reasonable shot, and gave myself a 12 footer.  I ended up making a bogey.  But that's not the end of the world in this event.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 OLIN BROWN:  I hit a good tee shot off the tee, I hit a good iron shot, and had a makeable putt, so I started to make that.  I got nice applause from the fans off the tee and on the green.  It was fun to be here.

To finish the back 9, I birdied 13, 14 and 16.  And just off the green on 13.  I made 2 of my best swings on 14, 8 iron into the pin, played a conservative shot.  That is going to be one of the most difficult holes today.  I made about a 20 footer, had a nice break to it.

16, I flew it on the green from the rough, and had a 15 footer.

Pretty commercial round.  I kept my composure, and thought myself around the golf course.  I didn't go at all the flags.  Several occasions I hit away from the pins.  So it was a well played day for me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT