BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 26, 2004
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Olin, for joining us for a few minutes.  As we were talking coming in, it turned into a pretty tough day this afternoon with the wind.
OLIN BROWNE:   The back nine was more difficult than it has been this week.  The wind started swirling and got things significantly on about 12 or 13, really on 11, I guess.  And just it became difficult because the greens firmed up, became difficult to get some shots and take advantage of the opportunities that obviously I did the first couple of days.  I played pretty solid today.  The important things when the wind is blowing like that is to catch the ball on the center of the clubface which I did pretty effectively.  16 was my first bogey, got gusted and ended up 20 yards short of my target.  It tells you when you catch the ball solidly and hit that far, that tells you how much it is messing with the shot.  I couldn't get it to drop like I wanted it but I'll get another chance tomorrow.
Q.  The way he's playing (Adam Scott), a six shot lead, is this guy impossible to catch?
OLIN BROWNE:   No.  We could slip him something in his food tonight.

Look, you just never know what's going to happen in this game.  Some days you make everything you look at and some days you can't throw it in the ocean.  He's obviously playing beautifully.

But my job isn't to worry about being six back.  My job is to go out and play really good golf tomorrow and do the best I can.  By the time we get to the middle of the back nine, we'll have a better idea what's happening.
Q.  Is the mindset tomorrow not to look at him at all and worry about what he's doing?
OLIN BROWNE:   No, I'm going to watch him hit every shot.  The guy's swing is awesome; I think I might be able to learn something.  He's pure and he's playing well and he's playing with confidence.  You know, he's on play with every shot.  Every shot starts down the line, whether it ends up where he's aiming or not when the ball is in flight.  But the guy is a beautiful golfer and he was predicted for this quality of play and he's owning up to that.
Q.  Does it almost feel like you're playing against a machine at some times the way he hits the ball?
OLIN BROWNE:   No.  This game is not as easy as we make it look and not as hard as we make it look sometimes.  What's entertaining about the game, it's almost poetry when it gets to being right and the guy is on target now and playing beautifully.  If he shoots 2  or 3 under tomorrow, nobody is going to catch him, but you never know what's going to happen.  And so I'm going to show up on the first tee tomorrow and see where I can get to.
Q.  At No. 7, you looked into the cup, was there an insect?
OLIN BROWNE:   There was a beetle coming in and going out, coming in and going out.  If he comes out when my ball rolls over the hole, it could knock it out, so I waited for him to clear the cup.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Let's go through your birdies and bogeys.
OLIN BROWNE:   I birdied 4.  I hit a really good shot on No. 4 and had 7 iron in there.  And again, the wind was there and it laid down just as I hit my shot and I ended up a little bit behind the pin just on the fringe, but I made a good putt and it went in.  I had some other good opportunities on that side and just did not take advantage of them.  That's kind of the way that works when the wind is swirling and the pins are hard.  As you can see guys are able to make birdies out there, but if they are being aggressive on every shot, they are going to end up crashing some and some of the guys did.

Coming in, I made a birdie, I had 162 I think was my number to the pin.  I hit a little 8 iron and I expect the ball to bounce to the hole and it didn't.  It took one hop and stopped, so I had about a 12  or 14 footer right up the gut, but I made a very good putt and it went in.

Bogeyed 16, like I said I got gusted and my ball ended up in the bunker about 20 yards short and that pin is very difficult.  I hit a pretty good bunker shot about 15 feet, but it was not the kind of putt you could even think about making.  I was trying to put it straight down the hill.  On the 17th green , tapped that in, and on 18, I hit a pretty good drive and I was in between clubs and I got a little quick with it and came over the top and ended up in a spot where I couldn't get up and down.

You know, the only thing that I'd like to have over, I didn't make a good swing on my tee shot on 12, and I didn't make a good swing on my iron shot on 18.  Other than that, I'm pleased with the way I struck the ball today and I'm going to take that with me for tomorrow.
Q.  And on 16, over the top?
OLIN BROWNE:   The pin on 16 was right over that bunker on the left about seven paces.
Q.  But was it too over the line in terms of being too difficult?
OLIN BROWNE:   No, you know where it is.  You could     hey, you could play it and it will stop short left and put up the gut.  No, I don't think it's over the line.
Q.  What do you mean by gusted?
OLIN BROWNE:   The wind out here, because of the nature of the terrain, the wind     like I live in Florida.  I go to the beach, the wind hits me in the face all day long; I know it's coming from the east.  I live on the East Coast.

But here, because you've got the hills and the trees, the wind gets in there and it moves in different directions and it comes and goes.  And there's a huge American flag right behind the green on 16, and I'm looking at the green this way and the flag is going exactly at right angles to me.  So I've got 174 to the pin and figure I'm just going to take it to the right, let it ride the wind, land up short, it will be perfect, and I make it and go to the next hole.  Well, the wind went from here to coming back this way at about a 20 mile an hour gust and dropped my ball 20 yards short of the pin and that's what happened.  You know, that bunker is short of the flag on 16.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT