BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 25, 2004
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  We would like to welcome Olin Browne into the interview room, 5 under par, 66 today, 12 under par for the tournament.  Another nice day of golf for you today.
OLIN BROWNE: Thank you, not quite as fluid as it was yesterday.  I didn't hit the ball quite as solidly, but I got a couple good bounces when I needed it.  That worked out.
Q.  You're still in great shape here.
OLIN BROWNE: Yes, and looking forward to playing the weekend, and like I said, happy to be here.
Q.  Let's go through your birdies.

(Scorecard read.)
Q.  Questions?  Olin, can you talk a little bit about the old days, St. Alban's, where did you go from here do you still come back much?
OLIN BROWNE: I went to college in California, Occidental College, which is in northern LA, and St. Alban's, I've got a lot of fond memories.  It's a great school.  It was way too hard for me.  Glad I survived it.
Q.  Did you play golf there?
OLIN BROWNE: No, I wish I had.  I didn't start until I got to college.  I played football, baseball, a little tennis.  They tried to get me to run track.  That was a joke, but they tried.
Q.  You grew up in Washington?
OLIN BROWNE: Yes.  My mom still lives here.  I consider it where I'm from.  I live in Florida now, but this is where I'm from.
Q.  Olin, kind of along those same lines, do you kind of consider this your home tournament?  Do you get more kind of friends and family out here than you do other places?
OLIN BROWNE: It's a friendly place for me.  I've got a lot of family and friends here who come out and watch and cheer me on.  That's encouraging.  It's an easy week.  I don't have to worry about hotels, restaurants, where I'm doing my laundry,  you know, it's a relaxing week.  Maybe more relaxing than some of the other ones.

On the other hand, I'm hustling tickets, but I'll take it that way anytime.  I've always liked playing here.  It's fun to come home and see the folks, and my mom gets to spend time with her grandkids, and it works out.
Q.  I'm going to ask you, when was the last time you were in this position either right there or in the lead going into
OLIN BROWNE: I was leading Pebble a couple years ago.  I hit 16 greens in regulations and 3 putted my way to a 73, finished 3rd. It's not something you forget, so I'll be ready to play this weekend.  I'm excited about being here.  I'm looking forward to it.
Q.  What's happened this year, it's a slow start obviously?
OLIN BROWNE: I struggled with my game for the last year and a half really, and trying to do a lot of things on my own, which is the way I've always done it.  Starting late, my swing is not technically perfect, and I recognize that, and then you go and see somebody and they try to put you in good position, but it's not comfortable with me.  I have been toying with that and trying to reconcile that.

The good thing is a lot of the stuff I have been doing helps me identify the things that I've done well in the past and I feel like I'm starting to do those things again.  Maybe that can carry over on the weekend and I can recapture some of the form that I had in the late'90s.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
OLIN BROWNE: There are a couple guys who keep an eye on me, the list goes on and on, but what I tend to do is maybe confuse myself a little bit.  I try to take a little bit of things that apply to what I can do well.  Maybe one or the other guy can give me that.  Anyway, it's a process.  It's a process of elimination really.  I have spent the good first half of this year weeding out things that haven't worked for me or things I've tried that will work in the future and so far so good said the Turkey in front of the be oven door.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
OLIN BROWNE: No, but Adam Scott is out there 13 under and I figure he's going to birdie a couple times.  I don't think it means much.  Dennis and his crew, they ought to be real proud with what they've done out here because this place is as good as I've seen it and now we're going to blow it up.  Doesn't that figure.
Q.  Any more questions?  (Inaudible)?
OLIN BROWNE: Well, I've got a new driver this week.  It's a 7 and a half degree club, and we redistributed some weight, and I'm hitting it pretty straight, but also when I get it turning over, it goes pretty well, and this course isn't as wet as it's been in the past.  Two years ago I finished 9th here.  I have good memories of this place.  I've played decently here more often than not.  I think that's mostly due to the fact that it's so severe around the greens and the putting has been difficult.  The greens are as smooth as I've ever seen them this year.  Instead of questioning whether the putt is going to stay in line, you expect it to.  If you make a good read, you have a chance to make it.
Q.  All right.  Thank you.  Good luck this weekend.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT