U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2014
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Was the course a bit softened?  OLIN BROWNE: The greens were definitely soft, the fairways not to bad.  The greens were definitely receptive and as a result I think that the committee was able to put some front pins out there that were accessible and if you get downwind and the greens are firm you're not going to keep it within 30, 40 feet. So, they were able to use more of the green surfaces but still the course is playing all you want.  The wind is difficult to gauge and it seems to be almost across on every hole.  It's not directly down or into.  So, this is a challenging golf course.   Q.  Judging by how hot it is right now, do you think it's a pretty good advantage to tee off in the morning?  OLIN BROWNE: Everybody is going to have to tee off one day in the afternoon.  When you get this kind of a championship, it's nice to tee off in the morning Thursday, you get the whole day to rest and to play in the afternoon on Friday. Either way you prepare yourself mentally for playing one morning and one afternoon round and hopefully got two afternoon rounds on the weekend.   Q.  The course change much at all today?  OLIN BROWNE: I thought it did.  I played Tuesday and not yesterday because there was so much rain.  I didn't want to see the soft course. But short irons were -- you know, the greens were receptive and you could attack some pins.  However, having said that you couldn't gauge the wind necessarily and there were a lot of pins to the off side.  If they were right to left wind or hook wind was out of the right so it was very difficult to start it off the green, hit it close enough.  The course demanded a lot of patience today and you see by the scores that there are a few reds but not a lot.   Q.  Talked about everyone has to play in the afternoon.  How big of an impact, the heat and temperature play in all this?  OLIN BROWNE: We're a bunch of old guys.  The flip side of that is our bones stay looser and our muscles stay more limber.  You know, that's just something, again, you prepare for it and try to stay hydrated.  Don't drink too much alcohol in the evening, drink a lot of fluids during the day and you'll be all right  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT