GREATER HICKORY KIA CLASSIC AT ROCK BARN
October 20, 2013
Olin Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Final round 64, including five birdies in a row to start the back nine.   Quite a thrill out there.   You ended up a little bit short losing to Michael in a playoff, but nevertheless your best finish in an awful long time.   Just a few thoughts about the day and take us through that birdie run. 
OLIN BROWNE:   Yeah, I played really nicely this week.   I felt I was going to post a little better score yesterday, and I think that's really the difference between winning the tournament outright and then getting in the playoff.   I played solidly, and I guess my last nine holes I made a bogey and eight pars and I hit eight greens, so that was the frustrating part.   But today I got off to a little bit of a slow start.   I bogeyed, what was it, No.3, I three‑putted it, which was not the way when you're three back to start the day anyway, but then I got on a great run there, made a couple of birdies late in the front line and then I birdied the first five on the back and really gave myself a chance. 
One more putt here or there, and it's no worry the rest of the week, but Michael certainly played beautiful golf, and I had my chance in the playoff, and I didn't execute on my second shot, and he's the champ. 
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Take us through the details on the birdies today.   You birdied 6 and 7. 
OLIN BROWNE:   I birdied 6 and 7.   I hit a sand wedge about two and a half feet on 6, hit a 9‑iron about five feet behind the hole on 7.   I parred 8.   Then on the front nine I made the turn and I hit some good shots.   I hit it 10 feet on 10, I hit it two feet on 11, I hit it about 18 feet on 12, I hit it about 12 or 14 feet on 13, and I hit it about 12, 14 feet on the next hole.   So I had a great run there and just couldn't get another one to drop the rest of the day.   But I played really good golf. 
I haven't been out all season or most of the season.   It was really gratifying to at least have my heart pumping again a little bit.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   The last four in regulation, obviously when you birdie 14 you probably know you're in the mix pretty good.   Actually you were in the lead.   Talk about those last four.   Anything realistic, anything you could do over? 
OLIN BROWNE:   Well, there were some good pins there.   I hit a good tee shot on 15 and tugged my second into the bunker.   But it's very difficult to get it close to that pin because the green is firm enough if you carry it over the ridge your ball is probably going over.   You carry it short of the ridge it's probably staying.   That's really a par hole.
The next hole I was in between clubs on 16, and I elected to take a little bit more club because that big wet spot that's between me and the hole, it's a prudent play to make sure that you have enough club.   You know, so I had about a 30‑footer there.   It was right on a ridge.   It had to be a perfect shot.
And then same thing on 17.   But really the 18th hole was the key, and neither in regulation nor in the playoff did I birdie it, and that's kind of the reason that I finished second this week. 

Q.   The birdie putt on 18 in regulation, is that the one maybe‑‑
OLIN BROWNE:   You know, I read the putt the way I read it and I hit it right where I was looking.   I misread the putt.   I over‑read it.   I thought because it was a little bit downhill that it was going to break a little bit more than the actual read.   When you're putting downhill the putt has a lot longer time because you have to hit it more easily, and so I played maybe a ball more break than I would have normally, and it just slid by on the right. 
I don't regret the read that I made there, and I hit it right where I was looking, so I'm going to take that into next week, and that should give me a little bit of confidence.
Ultimately this game is a game of making an educated guess.   There's nothing about it that's a science.   It's all feel, and when you get on a roll like the five that I made in a row, I made some pretty good putts.   I can't complain about the one that I missed.

Q.   This would have meant a lot to Buck after having some health problems?
OLIN BROWNE:   Yeah, it would have.   I think this would have put me right at or inside the 30 for Schwab.   I've got one more week to try and get that done.   Yeah, Buck is getting a little long in the tooth, God bless him, and he's had a hip done twice, the same one.   He's a little sore.   He won't be going with me next week, but it would have been good to post one for him this week, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT