NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 7, 2008
Sam Cassell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   SAM CASSELL: There's things that don't show up on the stats sheet, the loose balls, the tip-aways. A guy like P.J. Brown, he came up big for us in Game 1. He may not get the credit, but we know how important P.J. Brown is for our ballclub.

 Q. Do your off-days feel different now than they did when you were a youngster, your first two championship years?
 SAM CASSELL: Oh, yeah, definitely.

 Q. How is it different?
 SAM CASSELL: Because I was a young guy. I didn't prepare, I just came here and played the game of basketball. I didn't get a pregame nap. I still don't take a pregame nap. Whatever I had to do during the course of the day, if I needed to get my car washed, I got my car washed. I didn't have no hair back then, so if I wanted to go sit in that barbershop and talk to the guys in the barbershop, I did that. Just came home for the game, took a shower, put some clothes on and went to the arena.

 Q. Now what do you do?
 SAM CASSELL: I sit my butt down, so I don't get the car washed or do too much. I just sit down and relax, get me something good to eat and just relax in time for the game and play the game. 

 Q. Between Boston and LA, where would you prefer to play Game 6?
 SAM CASSELL: Anywhere we can win it, you know what I'm saying? It doesn't matter, as long as we win it. We'd like to get it done quickly. Who wouldn't want to get it done quickly? The longer it goes, the more your chances go down, you know what I'm saying? So you get it done quickly. 

 Q. With the 2-3-2 format how important is it to get a win here tomorrow night before you go to LA for three games?
 SAM CASSELL: It's important. Every game is important for The Finals, but this game definitely will be important. The Eastern Conference Finals we lost Game 2 to the Pistons, but we've got our work cut out for us. We understand what the Lakers are going to do, but we've also got to be more aggressive on defense and understand what we need to do to win the game tomorrow.

 Q. Do you sense a building pressure?
 SAM CASSELL: There's pressure every game, not just sitting down 1-0 or up 1-0. There's always going to be pressure because it's the first to four, so every game is going to be a pressure-packed game. You're not going to come to any of these games lackadaisical. That's not going to happen. Guys are going to be prepared. You understand what they're going to do, but on the other side they understand what we're going to do.

 Q. Very few people in the league have played as long as you have. When you think about what you do when you make your living playing hoops, what do you do that's successful in the days off to make you successful? Is it as simple as rest? Is it as simple as watching your favorite movie?
 SAM CASSELL: No, right now for me it's just rest. It's getting off my feet and just rest. If I was 25, which that's a long, long time ago, and I could do anything because I had the energy. As you get older, you get a bump, it takes a little longer to heal. If you take a bruise or a sprained ankle -- I tend to try to get my rest, try to eat right. I've never been over 200 pounds in my career, and I think that's why I've been playing so long. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT