NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 7, 2014
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tim, after a couple years of defensive decline you guys have gotten back to being at the top.   What were the key elements to getting back to being a top‑5 defensive team?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   I think a focus on trying to get back to that point.   Every Finals and champion the last couple of years statistically are in those categories, those top 5, top 2 and 3 categories defensively.   So that was a focus for us for Pop coming in each and ever year trying to get back to that point.   In addition obviously some size in Tiago and athleticism with Kawhi and Danny on the wings and I think that helps a lot.   
   
 Q.   Has anything changed schematically in that regard?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   No, not really.   I think just coming in here from day one in training camp and making it a priority, making them understand that every game, every film session, everything else, this is what we're going to hang our hats on.   
   
 Q.   Popovich said earlier in the series that Peter Holt allowed him to do what he needs to do by not meddling, letting him grow as a basketball executive.   As a player who has been here a long time, have you grown to appreciate the owner that you have versus the other owners?   Could you talk about that?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, yeah, and Pop has always talked about that freedom, the ability to make his own decisions and make his own calls, without the owner‑‑ our owners being involved and without Peter saying ‑‑ R.C. he has the final word and everything, but without Peter kind of holding him back from what he wanted to do.   That way he can go from film room to‑‑ time with R.C. and know exactly what kind of team he wants to put together and what kind of moves he wants to make without having to clear that with everyone.   
    I think that takes out the middleman there and it's worked well obviously.   They are the basketball minds that put this whole thing together, and to take one link out of it really helps him.   
   
 Q.   I know Pop's is a future Hall‑of‑Fame coach but don't you think he should play you more at point guard?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   I've been arguing that point for years now and I'm going to get your name and card, and I'll get you in a room with him.   
   
 Q.   Tim, the schedule is what it is.   With two days in between Games 1 and 2, is there a at the particular tendency to overthink what you need to do in Game 2 or the wrongs that you did in Game 1?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   No, I don't think overthink but we definitely need to think about it.   Teams that win, you don't think they need to make any adjustments and teams that lose, you think they need to make all the adjustments.   I think we're right in there in the middle.   
    We are talking about what we need to do better, make small adjustments and get ready.   I think the time more than anything is good for us health‑wise, just getting us back to 100%, especially after the tough night that we had.   
    So the time is good for us.   The adjustment time is good for us and I don't think we're overthinking it.   Pop is obviously a mastermind at that and not changing a whole lot and not bogging us down with everything we have to do.   
   
 Q.   Pop talked about you trying to convince him to let you play point.   Can you talk about the skills that we haven't been able to see that he's holding you back on?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   After my five turnovers the other night, I think I took a step back from that (laughter).   I don't think that I'm going to be able to step up and fill that role for a little while.   
    But, no, I enjoy getting in the middle of the floor and making decisions and getting the ball to the right place, and that's what a point guard's got to do.   
   
 Q.   How do you think of yourself as a passer?   What's a good assist game for a big nowadays?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   Number‑wise?   You know what?   It's not just about making the pass, it's about moving the ball and getting it to the person that might get it to the person.   
    If we had hockey assists, I think our team would lead the league in hockey assists because we keep moving the ball and keep moving bodies.   But it's just about making the right decision at the right time and it's not always about making the right decision that gets the shot, but the right decision that makes the play happen.   
   
 Q.   Tim, can you talk about why you've been able to remain so dominant still at the age of 38?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   I've changed myself.   I've changed my game.   I've changed my body a bit, and I'm playing in a situation in a system that has allowed me to do just that and continue to be effective.   I always talked about when I don't feel I'm being effective anymore, then I would walk away from the game.   
    It's just about adjustments and finding what works and understanding that I can't do everything I used to do.   
   
 Q.   When you talk about getting the ball to the right spot, you only got 10 shots the other night.   And the way that you were hitting all of them basically, do you ever feel like telling Pop, I want the ball more, I should get more shots?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   Not in a situation like the other night.   We run our game plan the way we want to run our game plan.   We get open shots and get to the spots that we get to.   I was lucky enough to have a night like that where my shots were going down and basically able to get to the position, where I was being fed the ball in the right position.   And on a night like that I'm more of a set‑up man than a finisher.   
    But it's not where I'm demanding the ball.   I get to where I need to get to and I do what I have to.   
   
 Q.   Danny Green, how much has he improved in the last couple of years?   And what do you think he's improved the most upon since coming to San Antonio?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   Couple years back he wasn't doing anything.   He was out of the league.   He found his way in here and Pop gave him an opportunity to step up.   So it's been a considerable improvement year to year from where he was.   I think his biggest improvement this year was just his confidence.   Our confidence in him, his confidence in himself, his understanding of what role he has and what he can and can't do.   And Pop's still on him because he thinks he can get more out of him.   He thinks he needs to be a better defender, make more of the right plays at the right time.   
    And I think Pop and the rest of the coaching staff and us, we're always on him to be a little better.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Tim.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT