NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 6, 2014
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tim, all ten of your shots last night were in the paint.   How did you get such good looks?   And do you expect them to do something different defensively in Game 2 to sort of prevent you or keep you further from the basket?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   It's where my shots come.   We have a lot of shooters and I'm not going to stretch the court in that respect.   Every once in a while I get a jumpshot from 15 to 18 feet, but mostly my effective range is in there right now.   I'm going to pick‑and‑roll and try to get to open spots and try to take advantage of the rotation if they're trapping.   
   
 Q.   Tim, you talked a little bit last night about how you've come with Danny Green, every time he let's it fly, you think it's going.   Is that a growth you've seen in his game since last year this time when he exploded on the scene?   Do you think he's done a good job defensively in the playoffs?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   He's improved defensively a little bit every year.   I think Pop gives him a really hard time because he wants him to be great defender.   He wants him to be a guy that we can look to to set on people and to change the game a little bit in that respect.   He is a shooter and that's what he's known for and that's what he's best at, but possibly trying to make him be able to go both ways and be effective on both ends.   
    He's grown in both respects.   I think confidence‑wise with us, we know how good of a shooter he is and we know that we want to get him shots as much as possible.   And on the other end we're looking for him to really be more effective on that end.   I think he has more growing to go on that end.   
   
 Q.   As another big guy, do you marvel at times the things that Boris is able to do being a big man, playing small at the same time?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, his skill set is impressive, especially for his size.   He's played that way all his life.   I think coming in here he was a point guard or he was a guard all of his life, and he has those skills.   He has that skill set, and to have the body that he has and to do what he's done especially in these playoffs this year, it's been a huge boost for us and it's really changed our team.   
   
 Q.   Tim, the Bexar County official that oversees the AT&T Center was at the game last night.   He said that he thought it was comfortable and that media reports were overstated.   In your words how would you describe the conditions last night?  
    TIM DUNCAN:   It was definitely hotter than normal.   We were all sweating a lot more than normal.   We made it through.   We did just fine.   Couple of extra things happened there, we had some cold towels and drinking more water, but other than that we were able to play through it.  
   
 Q.   You guys play defense with not sending the other guys to the foul line (inaudible)?  
    TIM DUNCAN:   We're just trying to play the percentages and let people make tough shots and stay away from putting them on the line and giving them easy points.   They're such great free‑throw shooters last series with Westbrook and Durant, and those are easy points that can get people going.   And you put them on the free‑throw line and they get to stand there and score some points, and that in turn can up their confidence, give them a rhythm, whatever it may be.   Keep 'em off the line, make 'em make the tough shots and play the percentages has been our philosophy.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever played with severe cramps like LeBron had in Game 1?   If not how have you prevented it?   If so, what was it like?   
    TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, Game 7 against Dallas where I was cramping up the entire‑‑ well, the fourth and overtime.   Ever since then I've just stayed more hydrated than usually, just tried to attack it before it gets to that point.   And luckily I've had a couple of times where I've cramped up since then, but for the most part I've been able to stay away from it.   
   
 Q.   What does that feel like?   A lot of people are criticizing LeBron, like, hey, shake it off, get out there.   When it really cramps up like that, how do you‑‑  
    TIM DUNCAN:   There is no shaking it off.   Your body is shutting down and you're unable to move.   Whatever is cramping, you're unable to get away from that.   It's easy to say to shake it off but once it's gotten to that point it's hard to reverse in a short period of time.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the game Tiago Splitter played last night.   
    TIM DUNCAN:   Our bigs played well all around.   We did our game plan and made ourselves available in the middle of the floor and we turned the ball over a little more than we should have but got to the spots we needed to and finished well in the middle of the lane.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Tim.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT