NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 5, 2014
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Miami Heat - 95
      San Antonio Spurs - 110

Q.   Tim, obviously the heat was a factor, but how did you guys feel like you performed that hot on the floor?   I think Kawhi said it felt like 120 degrees down there on the court. 
    TIM DUNCAN:   I thought we played through it well.   I think it affected both teams.   It definitely affected both teams.   It got to a couple different of guys and cramps started setting in. 
    I thought Pop continued to switch guys in and out, keep us as fresh as possible and we finally got to a point where we took care of the ball and we got a chance to make a run and made 'em pay. 

Q.   Tim, you guys trailed by seven early fourth quarter, went on to win by 15, what was the turning point in the fourth quarter? 
    TIM DUNCAN:   I think just that, just what I said.   We took care of the ball finally.   We had 20‑some odd turnovers for 28 points the last seven or eight minutes.   We only turned the ball over once or twice.   And getting them out of the passing lanes, keeping them in front of us, making them score over us, and we found something that worked on the offensive end.   Started moving the ball and Danny Green got hot and hit a couple of shots and really opened it up for us. 

Q.   Danny didn't hit a shot in the first three quarters.   Even when he doesn't have it going like that, how confident are you guys that he will eventually get hot? 
    TIM DUNCAN:   Honestly, the way he shoots the ball, I assume every time he shoots it it's going to go in.   So we want to get him as many shots as possible.   He's a confident, capable shooter.   And I think Pop has instilled a lot of confidence in him in the fact that when he has a crack, he can shoot the ball.   And that takes a lot of pressure off him deciding what shots to shoot and what shots not to shoot. 
    So he hits one or two and then we call a play for him, he hits another one and that really opens up the game for us. 

Q.   Tim, temperature‑wise how does this rank with the games‑‑ is this one of the most uncomfortable games you've ever played? 
    TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, pretty close.   Pretty close.   I don't think I've ever played in anything like this since I left the islands.   It was pretty bad out there. 

Q.   Did you notice or when did you first notice LeBron was having problems?   And what do you think about the way your team just responded and kept a foot on the gas pedal with him out? 
    TIM DUNCAN:   I honestly didn't see it until we had numbers going the other way, and I looked back and he was kind of on the baseline, limping on the baseline.   That's the first time I really noticed.   I think he asked out of the game once or twice before that, so we knew he was getting tired but we were all getting tired out there.   So I didn't assume it was anything more than him getting tired and getting a blow.
    Him in or out, obviously he's one of the best players in the league.   He's going to make a difference, but we played through all that.   And as I said, we started taking of the ball and that was the difference. 

Q.   Last season Tiago had a rough series against Miami, but tonight at times he looked like when he spelled you, he had some really big plays, late third quarter, early fourth.   How big was his play tonight? 
    TIM DUNCAN:   He was great tonight, he was great.   We continued to roll and get in the middle of the defense and make the right reads.   He finished some great ones in there, made some plays for us, made some good reads and passed it out to shooters. 
    He's been playing well all season long and he knows what he has to do now, and he knows what he has to do and he's confident if he gets fouled he can go to the line, and knock off free throws, with all that said he put it together tonight. 

Q.   Talk about your play and the play of Manu, the two old guys tonight. 
    TIM DUNCAN:   (Laughing) I don't know how to respond to that.   We wanted to win it badly, and we just kind of stuck with it.   I think Manu was out there for the entire fourth quarter.   He was very effective tonight, moving the ball, making the right passes and made some shots early that kept us in the game. 
    We both want it bad and we're both willing to do whatever.   We're trying to stick to the game plan as much as possible and make plays when we can. 

Q.   Talk about the adjustments you made in the third quarter to be able to turn this game around. 
    TIM DUNCAN:   What adjustments we made? 

Q.   You guys came out struggling in the third quarter, Miami outscored you 29‑20. 
    TIM DUNCAN:   We had a bad third quarter, almost 10 turnovers, and that was the difference for us.   It took us until halfway through the fourth until we really figured it out and started taking care of the ball.   So I think the third was our worst quarter, and we allowed them to up their pressure, allowed them to get in the passing lanes and allowed them to get in the open court and score some easy ones when we were able to keep them in front of us, and make them work for what they got.   They still scored the ball but this was tougher than them getting out and running out on us. 

Q.   Game 1, you have a ways to go, what goes through your mind knowing what happened last time with the Miami Heat? 
    TIM DUNCAN:   We're one step closer to four wins, it doesn't matter what happened last year.   We know there is a lot of things we can clean up, and we're going to come in here on Sunday and hopefully play better and come out with another one. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT