NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 23, 2014
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   1 to 10, 10 being the most surprised, how surprised are you that Serge Ibaka has been upgraded to day‑to‑day?  
TIM DUNCAN:   I think that's the first I've heard about it.   I don't know, what were the numbers again?   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Scale of 1 to 10, 10 being the most surprised.   
TIM DUNCAN:   I'm not surprised.   He's a competitor.   They're down.   He wants to play in the Playoffs.   I'm not surprised at all.   
   
 Q.   How does that change preparation‑‑  
TIM DUNCAN:   It doesn't change anything.   It doesn't change anything.   We're going to go and play the same way and attack the same way and hopefully have the same results.   
   
 Q.   Do you guys think two years ago at all, does that cross your mind, or is that just in the past?  
TIM DUNCAN:   We've talked about it.   We haven't talked about it as a group, but I've thought about it.   I've said stuff to people about it, so it's there.   A lot of these guys don't have a recollection of that or weren't there for that, so there's that, but we understand what we have at our hand.   We understand what can happen.  
   
 Q.   When you guys keep minutes down, do you feel the difference this time of year?  
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, absolutely, absolutely.   A lot fresher, obviously healthy, God willing I'll stay that way, but yeah, absolutely, it makes a difference.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think you, Manu and Tony have such great chemistry together?   Obviously you're all great players, but why have you been able to have such great chemistry?  
TIM DUNCAN:   I think it's always how we've played basketball, and then you find somebody who's got the same competitiveness who's the same kind of team player who just wants to win, and you put that all together, and I think that's what we have.  
   
 Q.   What about off the court?   You guys are all from different countries and backgrounds and stuff.   Off the court how is the relationship with all three of you guys?  
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, we're great.   We all have families and everything else, but we all get along great, and it's been a lot of years we've been together.   If nothing else, just being around each other a lot, we've become very good friends, very close.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT