NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 20, 2014
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   At what age do you think you'll stop having games like you had last night?   
TIM DUNCAN:   I was, what, 38 yesterday?   Probably around 38 yesterday.   (Laughter.)   
   
 Q.   Did you feel 38?   
TIM DUNCAN:   I felt good.   Honestly I was basically feeding off what my teammates were setting up for me.   The game in that respect came easy in that part.   I was playing off the game plan and playing against the spots where I needed to get to, and luckily enough I made some shots.  
   
 Q.   Obviously they're going to have to make some adjustments in the paint.   What do you foresee them trying to do?   
TIM DUNCAN:   I don't know, but that's what it's about.   The series is about adjustments, especially after that first game, and we'll see some different things.   They're going to rotate harder.   They're going to make me a passer early‑‑ I don't know what they're going to do, but we'll be ready for it and we'll counter it.   If they want to do that, I know our shooters will be ready to put those shots up.  
   
 Q.   You joked about being 38.   How do you feel at 38 compared to 28 or 32?   
TIM DUNCAN:   I'm still here doing it.   Obviously I'm not as effective as I used to be, and my legs aren't what they used to be.   But I'm finding different ways to do things and adjusting to my game, and just happy to be out there, and I feel healthy while I'm out there, so that's good.  
   
 Q.   What type of adjustments have you made to be effective at this age?   
TIM DUNCAN:   Just knowing I can't do everything I used to do.   I'm able to play off my teammates and let them create for me.   
   
 Q.   You, Manu and Tony achieved a significant milestone in winning 110 playoff games matching Kareem and Magic and Cooper.   Have you thought about that and put it into historical perspective?  
TIM DUNCAN:   I've never heard about it, so I haven't thought about it.   It's a wonderful accomplishment, as are a lot of things that we've done as a trio.   But our only focus as far as we're concerned right now is winning this series and moving on.  
   
 Q.   There are still times when you seem to take a lot of responsibility on yourself.   I'm just wondering how you mentally get to that state where you know a lot is going to be riding on you.   
TIM DUNCAN:   I don't assume anything, but I always show up and assume that the game depends on me.   I know it does a lot less in these years and this season, but I still show up and I feel responsible for what happens out there, so I want to play as well as I can.   
   
 Q.   Are you at all surprised that you had the type of first half you had last night?  
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, yeah, but as I said, I was just kind of taking what was given to me.   Going into the half in the 20s, that's crazy, but I also look up there and I know I have zero rebounds and I want to change that.   There's always a way to get better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT