NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 18, 2013
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Tim, you had 30 points and seemed to be on your way to perhaps your greatest Finals performance.   You failed to score in the fourth and overtime.   Just talk about what happened there, and whether you view this as a huge wasted opportunity and how difficult it will be to bounce back from that. 
TIM DUNCAN:   It's obviously disappointing, having the lead that we went into the fourth with.   The opportunities we had to close it out.   It is what it is.   It's a one‑game series now.   I don't know what happened in the fourth and in overtime.   Just the opportunities weren't there.   I did have some opportunities, just missed shots.   Whatever you want to call it.   Just a disappointing loss. 

Q.   You were out of the game in some key situations, particularly when Kawhi missed the free throw in the end of regulation.   Can you talk about Pop's substitution patterns and whether you agree with them. 
TIM DUNCAN:   It's what we've done all year.   In a situation where we were going to switch a lot of things, and just unfortunate the way it happened.   We got a stop, and we got a bad bounce, and right out to Ray Allen for a three.   Just situational. 
But there's no questions there.   It's the plays we've been making all season long. 

Q.   Tim, you guys have been so good over the years at closing out games when you're in positions like you were tonight.   How do you kind of recover in time for Game 7 on Thursday? 
TIM DUNCAN:   We do exactly that, we recover.   We'll use these 48 hours until the next one to get physically right, get reenergized.   We'll do what we usually do.   We'll watch a little bit of film, and make a couple of little tweaks.   We put ourselves in a position to win a game. 
They made plays down the stretch to take it from us, but we know what we can do.   We know that we can win games either here or anywhere else, and we just have to execute for a longer period of time.   We had a lapse for a couple of minutes here and there.   As I said, up 10 points going into the fourth quarter, we like our chances. 

Q.   Tim, when the crew comes out with the yellow rope and you have fans filing out of the arena and everything else, is it difficult not to feel like the championship is yours right there and kind of exhale as a group? 
TIM DUNCAN:   We didn't exhale at all.   We continued to make some plays.   We missed some free throws down the stretch that could have clinched it for us.   As I said, we get a stop, we get a bad bounce and right out to Ray for a three.   We get stops before that and get rebounds, push them out, we put ourselves in a great situation. 
It was just unfortunate the bounces that we get, but that's how basketball goes.   They're a very good team over there and they continue to play right down to the wire. 

Q.   Tim, you guys have such a great championship pedigree, and when you have a team down by 13 points late in the game, usually you wrap it up.   Can you describe what LeBron James was able to do in response and the kind of will he had, especially in a couple of plays involving you. 
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, he played great down the stretch.   Just as you said, he kind of willed it.   Defensively he made some plays.   I know he had a block on me, and then a score on the other end back to back.   He just‑‑ he made plays.   I don't think there's any two ways to put it.   We were in the right position.   We were in the right position to close it out.   He found a way to put his team over the top.   And we just didn't make enough plays to do that.   I don't know that's it's any more complicated than that.   You're in a situation in a closeout game and you have a lead like we did, it's just unfortunate we didn't take advantage of it. 

Q.   Tim, Manu seemed like he was taking a lot of this on himself.   How do you guys pick him back up and get more out of him in Game 7? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Manu will be good.   He'll be fine.   He made some turnovers and some unfortunate plays, but honestly, the last play down the stretch there, it can go either way.   We obviously believe it was a foul going down the middle.   We get two free throws and we're talking about something different here, if that happens. 
So he'll be just fine.   He'll blame himself and put it on himself.   That just makes him more aggressive and more ready to play the next one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT