NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 13, 2013
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Miami Heat - 109
  San Antonio Spurs - 93

Q.   Tim, you all had 19 offensive rebounds last game.   Tonight didn't get your first till in the second half, five total.   What happened to change that tonight? 
TIM DUNCAN:   I think combination of us not being playing with two bigs as much.   Obviously their effort was there.   Defensively they were really solid.   And we just didn't get our opportunities.   We were crashing as much as we could to the glass, and we knew that there were some rebounds to be had there.   They did a great job in controlling the glass. 

Q.   Could you address the turnovers tonight?   Again, the losses have been full of turnovers. 
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, that's a big problem.   When we lose, that's the big deal right there.   As I said, their defense was solid.   They turned up their intensity, as we knew they would, and they got a lot of hands on balls, and they turned them into open plays for them, which is what we kind of talked about, trying to keep them out of that open court where they're most effective. 
They put all those things together and obviously we lose the game tonight.   They come up with the win. 

Q.   Tim, you've played with Manu a long time.   Why do you think he has struggled so much in this series to find his rhythm? 
TIM DUNCAN:   I think he's just trying to be incredibly unselfish right now.   I think he's trying to make the right play at the right time.   He's trying to make the right pass, make the defense move instead of looking more for his own. 
So I think he's just trying to make the right play more than anything.   We need him to be a little more aggressive, be a little more selfish, maybe and hopefully we can find him a way to get him to do that. 

Q.   Tim, you know Tony Parker a lot.   You guys have been playing a lot of time together.   He played a great first half.   Do you see something happening to him in the second half, maybe, with the injury, with the hamstring?   Or was Miami's defense that kept him from being good? 
TIM DUNCAN:   We're going to keep giving credit to Miami.   They played a very good game.   Defensively they were solid.   We had opportunities to get right back into it.   We get it to whatever, three points, and we make a turnover and they turn it into a score. 
So we'll give credit to Miami and we'll leave it there. 

Q.   Is it a must‑win for you guys here at home? 
TIM DUNCAN:   We're all trying to get to four games.   Every game is a must‑win. 

Q.   Tim, what was the difference in Dwyane Wade tonight from the previous games? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Aggressive.   His mid‑range game was working.   I thought we did a lot of the same stuff we did last game, challenged his shot.   But he made those shots.   Once he made those shots, he was able to break our defense down a little better, get inside of us, get to the basket, get some easy ones there.   So I think he kind of got everything he wanted. 

Q.   Is it scary to see a guy like that, a great player, who has really not been playing as he usually does for a long time, break out?   Is it scary going forward? 
TIM DUNCAN:   It's one game.   We'll make adjustments.   We'll see what happens next game. 

Q.   Tim, just talk about how Tony looked tonight.   Were you ever nervous that he might not be able to play? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Obviously, when I heard about it.   Fourth quarter last game, I had come to the back, he's back there getting treatment.   Obviously that was a scary time.   But he's played with injuries all year long, minor injuries all year long, and I had no doubt he would be there and be ready to play. 
And he played well.   As I said, give credit to Miami in the second half, that they did a much better job.   All in all I thought he played pretty well. 

Q.   When you had Boris in there against their small lineup with the two bigs, how did you feel like that worked?   And is that something you would like to see more? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Boris played well.   He moved the ball well.   He's kind of a pass‑first guy.   But he did a great job of attacking once he caught the ball in the pick‑and‑rolls, getting into the middle, made some good passes, made a couple shots for us.   The time he was in there he made a difference. 
So we'll see the adjustments we make.   We'll watch the film and make some adjustments for the next game and come out and see what happens. 

Q.   Tim, can you address the fact that Danny and Gary's performance, they made quite an adjustment defensively to kind of keep them in check.   Talk about that. 
TIM DUNCAN:   We understood adjustments were being made.   They're not going to let them run free and get as many shots off as they did in the game before that for obvious reasons.   We knew those adjustments would be made.   I thought they did a pretty decent job of not only once they were closed out on the line to driving those guys and trying to make plays.   We just didn't make enough plays.   They played better than us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT