NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 12, 2013
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tim, everybody talks about playing with whoever is ready, whoever you got.   Can you talk about the possibility of playing a Game 4 of the NBA Finals without Tony? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Obviously, if that be the case, it would be a huge loss for us.   We played all season long with minus a couple of guys in different cases for whatever amount.   I was gone for ten games, Tony was gone for a little while, Manu was gone for a little while.   We made adjustments.   We played without individuals.   On this stage at this time it would be obviously a huge loss for us. 

Q.   Tim, you said last night I think that you still don't feel like you're in rhythm.   Yet over the course of your career, how have you gotten back into rhythm when you've lost it for a little while? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Just getting out and just shooting individually.   Just getting out there and just working on my game individually more than anything.   And obviously just in‑game rhythm doesn't come from anything but in game.   Just being on the floor and seeing a shot go in or making a play somewhere and all that stuff helps your confidence. 

Q.   Tim, could you just talk a little about a guy like Tracy McGrady and somebody like him in the twilight of his career is helping some of the younger guys. 
TIM DUNCAN:   He's been great with some of the younger guys, with Kawhi, Gary and Danny.   You see him talking to them all the time during time‑outs or practice.   Just staying in their ears about different things.   I thought he's done a really good job of that, giving them tips here and there.

Q.   Tim, when you think about Tony Parker not being there, does your game change in what you do change?   I know other guys have to step up, but will you put more of an emphasis on what you do in particular? 
TIM DUNCAN:   I think it will automatically swing that way.   I don't think I would put it on myself per se, but it will kind of come that way.   The responsibility will fall on my shoulders more, obviously, and Manu as well. 
So we both will try to step up even more in the absence of his. 

Q.   Timmy, in your opinion, what do you think is wrong with LeBron James' offense? 
TIM DUNCAN:   I don't think there's anything wrong with LeBron's offense. 

Q.   He's under 20 points three games in a row.   He's not putting up the numbers he had earlier in the playoffs or that he did during the MVP season.   So I'll rephrase the question.   What are you guys doing schematically to limit him offensively? 
TIM DUNCAN:   We're guarding him with five guys. 

Q.   By doing it with backing in?   What else tactically?   Every team tries to guard him with five guys one way or another. 
TIM DUNCAN:   We understand what kind of player he is.   He's the best player in the world, so we're respecting him as that.   So we're trying to make his life as difficult as possible every time he touches the ball.   When he comes out in the open court, that's obviously where he really thrives.   If we can keep those away and keep his rhythm down, it's better for us. 

Q.   Tim, the two years that Kawhi has been here, have you seen him ever lose his composure, lose confidence at all? 
TIM DUNCAN:   I don't think he expresses enough emotion to know either way.   He's always the same.   He's always even keeled and he always looks like he's right where he wants to be. 

Q.   So not even in the locker room with you guys where he cuts loose and does a James Brown impersonation. 
TIM DUNCAN:   No, I don't think I heard him say more than four or five words in a row or he sounded displeased in some way.   That was about it. 

Q.   I know you said you would never want to have to deal with the coverage that LeBron and the Heat get down there.   What part wouldn't you want?   The amount of people or the constant second‑guessing when they lose a game, breaking the team up?   What would bother you about it? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Yes.   All of that and probably a lot more. 

Q.   Is there ever any panic when you guys lose a game or a series that there has got to be changes and this and that and whose fault it is?   Does that ever happen here? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Honestly, I don't read anything.   I don't watch SportsCenter.   I don't watch sports.   I don't watch anything.   I don't know what's said and I don't really care.   I show up to play the games.   We're here at this point and that's all that matters. 

Q.   Tim, if you were under that kind of microscope like the Heat, like LeBron, how do you think it would affect you?   How would you respond to it? 
TIM DUNCAN:   As I said, I kind of stay away from that.   So I don't even know how‑‑ I guess if you allow yourself to be affected by it, and you allow yourself to look and read everything, then everyone is under a microscope.   As I said, I don't envy that kind of scrutiny and pressure in any way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT