NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 6, 2013
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Antonio Spurs - 92
  Miami Heat - 88 
   
 Q.   Just talk about this championship pedigree that you guys have over the years.   You don't get rattled as a team and it's just business as usual, and people have been burying the Spurs saying, they are too old.   Do you find that amusing, just business as usual come here to win a Finals game?   
TIM DUNCAN:   We're here to win.   It doesn't matter how we're categorized.   It's been a lot of years since we've been here.   We're just happy to be back here.   Old veterans, whatever you want to call us.   We're in the mix right now.   Just great to get the first game under our belts.   
   
 Q.   Tim, what did it take for you to get going?   0‑for‑5 in the first quarter and then 8‑for‑14 after that.   Describe what it took to get into the game.   
TIM DUNCAN:   I didn't change anything, honestly.   The first five shots I got were all good shots‑‑ actually minus one.   The first four shots were really good shots.   Shots I usually make.   Shots I'm comfortable taking.   
So I didn't change anything about it.   I think I got a lay‑up to go, and that kind of changed it for me and just kind of went from there.   
   
 Q.   Tim, it seemed like you guys were anticipating that eventually they were going to switch and put LeBron on Tony.   Just talk about being prepared for that, and also being able to react to their adjustments that they make to try to get the ball out of his hands.   
TIM DUNCAN:   We knew at some point they would do that.   Tony made a couple of shots down the stretch there.   That's when they switched it over.   Tony made some great calls to get some switches in the right places, and then the unbelievable shot he made to obviously‑‑ we're going to make adjustments.   That's what Pop does.   We understand that when it comes down to it, LeBron is going to be their best defender.   They are going to put him on Tony.   We have to continue to execute, continue to attack and just try to get TP as much space as possible.   
   
 Q.   Tim, congratulations on a great road win.   What can you tell us about your supporting cast tonight, either on defense or offense?   Because the guys were great.   
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, they were great all around.   I thought Kawhi did an excellent job staying in front of LeBron.   You're not going to stop him.   You just have to try to stay in front of him as much as possible and make his life as tough as possible.   
Our guys got a lot of open shots.   We didn't shoot the ball real well, but we made enough shots down the stretch to extend a lead and get a win here.   We'll shoot the ball better.   We love the shots that we got.   And all around I thought we did an excellent job.   
We made plays down the stretch.   I think we got a couple of offensive rebounds down the stretch and put them back in.   We did what we had to do.   And all around the board we did a great job.   
   
 Q.   Tim, talk about only four turnovers in the game.   Did you get outrebounded by nine?   
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah.   It was a key coming in here that we need to take care of the ball.   Their pressure defense is what they do, their ability to get in the open court.   I think it was a bit of a nightmare, the very first play they come and make a turnover, they run it back and they dunk it right down the middle.   That's what we want to stay away from, obviously.   That's where they're at their best.   
So we took care of the ball very well.   As I said, we had some plays down the stretch on the offensive glass.   I think we had one or two tip‑ins down the stretch there.   That's where we have to continue to attack and continue to rebound the ball.   
   
 Q.   Tim, I think they threw four different primary defenders at you at one point or another, even Anthony, Andersen, Haslem, Bosh.   Is that what you anticipated that they would try and mix up the guys they would use on you?   
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah.   I would imagine they are going to use just about everybody they have there.   It's usually Haslem starting on me.   When they go smaller, I might have Bosh on me.   Chris Andersen obviously can come in.   
So they are going to use all those guys.   I know enough about them and I've prepared enough for them.   Nothing really changes on how I attack.   I just kind of play it as it comes.   
   
 Q.   Going back to Tony's basket there at the end, what's going through your mind as that whole wild sequence is unfolding.   He's on the ground and it looks bleak.   
TIM DUNCAN:   I don't know.   I think at this point my mind was just blank.   I just wanted him to get a shot up in the air.   I was trying to get position on the board, trying to work Bosh up the lane a little bit, so I could get back to the board.   
I see him go down and I'm just praying he gets a shot off.   Obviously, Tony makes an unbelievable play.   He does just about everything in the book that he had.   He fell to the ground, pump‑faked, stepped through and still got it off the ground.   It was just amazing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT