NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 26, 2013
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you ever change anything in your routine, whether it be before the season or throughout the season to make you be prepared for these types of instances?   
TIM DUNCAN:   No.   Just preparation, same preparation.   You don't change a whole lot, I guess.   You don't want to be in a situation you're not used to.   I guess just the experience of playing for‑‑  
   
 Q.   Keeping your body physically ready to play as many minutes as you did in the game last night‑‑  
TIM DUNCAN:   Well, the season helps obviously.   Pop has done a great job of using our minutes the right way, giving us time in situations where we're not playing as much, and every once in a while I will not play back to back or something like that to preserve our bodies just for these types of situations.   Hopefully in a season your minutes are going to increase, you're on the floor more, and hopefully you're up for it.   
   
 Q.   The experience that you and many of your teammates have, does that help to know what kind of advantage you have, if you can close out Memphis in a series tomorrow night?  
TIM DUNCAN:   Absolutely, absolutely.   We know they're not going to lay down.   We're going to have to beat them.   We understand what we have going here, and we understand that we want to finish is as quickly as we can.  
   
 Q.   Does that give you an advantage being able to rest and see what happens in the East?  
TIM DUNCAN:   That's always a question.   Do you get rusty, do you lose something?   Plus we don't know how many games they're going to go.   We don't know anything.   We're going to try to win one more game and figure out what we do after that.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like in fourth quarter and overtime last night you were feeling your legs a little bit because of the added days of rest coming into the game?  
TIM DUNCAN:   I felt good.   I felt good.   Whatever the reason may be, I felt good in those last couple minutes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT