NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 22, 2013
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you assess your defense so far and particularly on Zach?  
TIM DUNCAN:   We've been good.   We've done a pretty good job.   It's obviously a lot of activity with them, and with those second shots, I think you see a huge difference in our defense the second half of last night where they made some money on the glass.   They got inside a little too deep and made some plays, and that's a focus we're going to have to keep on especially going into Memphis.   So we'll have to clean it up a little bit, and if we can stick with what we went through for a game and a half, then we're right where we want to be.  
   
 Q.   That six‑stop sequence in the first half, can you talk about that?   
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, it was a great possession for us, just‑‑ I think everybody got involved in that.   Danny got a blocked shot, I think I got a blocked shot or two in there, and you just saw everybody kind of understanding that that's the series right there.   Those balls going up there and them pounding that glass and sticking with it and coming out with that ball at the end, that was just a great little possession that kind of showed how the series and the game was going to go.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of blocks, you're now the only player in NBA history with 500, another‑‑  
TIM DUNCAN:   Again, that just means I've been playing for a really long time.   
   
 Q.   Everybody seems like they're ready to step up‑‑  
TIM DUNCAN:   You know what, it's a lot of different people, but you got to give credit to Tony because he's been doing an unbelievable job.   The perimeter guys, they're doing a great job of driving the ball, using their pick‑and‑rolls, getting into the middle, drawing everybody and then finding people and those guys are ready to shoot.   We've got some of the best shooters in the league, and we show it year in and year out.   You get those guys open shots, we like our percentages in that respect.   So those guys are ready to make plays, ready to shoot the ball when it's their time, so it's a whole team effort.   
   
 Q.   Have you been surprised or happy or however you would phrase it in terms of (inaudible)?  
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, they've been great, especially in this postseason.   It takes a little while to kind of get through those nerves and everything.   I think that experience from last year has really shown this year.   They're a little more comfortable, they understand what they have to do.   Obviously the entire season this year to get them on the right page and understand what their roles are and everything else.   But right now they're playing unbelievable.   As you said, they've kind of made some huge shots for us and stopped runs for us.   Obviously last series we asked Kawhi and Danny to guard two of the toughest guys in the league on the perimeter, and they did that, as well.   They're doing a great job of growing up right in front of our eyes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT