NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 21, 2013
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Talk about you guys' work and what you did down in the paint with 12 blocked shots and limiting them on second chance points. 
TIM DUNCAN:   This whole series is kind of about that, what's going to happen in the paint.   Their physicality on the board, their ability to get to that offensive glass and score points in that situation, we're going to continue to contest shots down there and see what we can come up with.   We need to do a better job of kind of limiting those offensive boards.   But all in all I thought we did a pretty decent job.   Our guards are doing great job getting in there, getting those kind of long rebounds as we battle with Zach and Marc in there.   We still gave up, whatever, 10 offensive rebounds to both those big guys, but their ability to convert after they got them, I think we did a pretty good job of that. 

Q.   What was your assessment of the fourth quarter? 
TIM DUNCAN:   They made a run, and we got ourselves into pretty decent position where we'd play well for three quarters, they make a run the last quarter and turn their defensive intensity up a little bit.   They got some balls to bounce their way, Zach gets an and‑one or two, and that's kind of how the flow went, and it kind of went their way. 
I hate that we gave up that big of a lead in that situation, but we were good enough to go to overtime and not let it affect us and get a win there.

Q.   Tim, were you looking for your shot or what they were giving you? 
TIM DUNCAN:   It was just what was there more than anything.   I think the first one, the first one I got I just kind of caught and went, and I guess it was the fact that he had five fouls and I kind of had a bit of an easier route to the basket.   I thought for sure I was going to get hit in the head at that point.   And then just kind of crashing the offensive board, got a lucky one the second time.   It wasn't that I was looking for it, it was just what was there. 

Q.   Tony had 18 assists including the one on your final basket in overtime.   Talk about the job he did distributing the ball. 
TIM DUNCAN:   He was unbelievable, and I know he's exhausted.   We asked a lot of him.   He was controlling the ball every time down the floor, and he was making every right play there was.   He was finding people and people were knocking out shots for him.   A lot of credit to him, a lot of credit to just keeping it up for that long and continuing to do it for that long, to have 18 assists and then ask him to score, ask him to defend Conley and all those things, he's been great. 

Q.   You didn't get too many days off between games in the last series and kind of a quick turnaround from the end of the Golden State series to this one.   How important is it to get three days off between now and Game 3?
TIM DUNCAN:   It's huge.   It's huge.   We need it.   Coming off the last series, how physical this series is, the minutes, some like Tony is playing, some of the guys are playing, it's huge for us.   We'll need this time and we'll use it wisely.   We'll be refreshed.   Obviously we're going into hostile territory in Memphis and we know they will use this time to change a bunch of things and watch this game and see where they did well especially in that second half, and it'll be a much tougher game going into Memphis, but we'll use this time off to reenergize.

Q.   At the end of the fourth quarter with the flagrant foul did you see anything there? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, it's such a weird play.   I know it's a tough play for the officials.   I think Tony just tried to sell it more than anything. 
But I guess the ruling is if he's in a vulnerable position and they feel that it's excessive, then it's a flagrant.   But I thought Manu did the right thing and tried to prevent the lay‑up, and you just let the referees call what they have to call. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT