NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 20, 2013
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Why has your game migrated there?
TIM DUNCAN:   It's an evolution.   It's where our offense has gone.   We're more a pick‑and‑roll team, and that's where my shots are coming from.   I've worked on that area of my game.   I'm trying to extend my range to that area to feel more comfortable, and it's just where my shots are coming from.

Q.   What did you guys do to well to deny Z‑Bo yesterday and what do you expect the second go around?
TIM DUNCAN:   Just a lot of effort more than anything, and we got a little lucky.   He missed some easy ones.   He's going to play much better going forward and they're going to make their adjustments and we're going to have to continue what we're doing and probably do a lot more.   As I said, one of those kind of perfect storm things.   We played well, we made some shots, and we made his life a little difficult, but he's going to play much better, we know that.

Q.   Memphis has been so resilient this year, bouncing back every time they've suffered a loss.   Anything on tape you've seen as a reason why they've been able to bounce back?
TIM DUNCAN:   They make good adjustments.   They're very well coached.   Along with that they bring the effort, and that's what you need.   They're going to bring that energy, they're going to play hard, they're going to crash that board and we know all that's coming.   We're not going to be satisfied with the first win, we're going to obviously try to get two here at home and defend our home court.   We know they're going to play much better.   We know we're not going to hit 14 threes again. 
We've got to be prepared for all that and be prepared for them really coming at us.

Q.   Did you ever sense that they were frustrated at all out there yesterday? 
TIM DUNCAN:   I wasn't focused on that part of it, just focused on trying to do what we game planned and continue attack.   We had a stretch there for three or four minutes and it went from being a 15‑, 16‑point lead to a six‑point game just from that bit of time.   We know their capabilities.   We know what they're capable of, so we've just got to be prepared for it.

Q.   You and Manu had such a great run.   As you start realizing that it's so hard to get to this spot and get to The Finals do you realize that this might be the last go‑around or something like that?
TIM DUNCAN:   It's the last one until the next one.   I'm not worried about the last one or the last one we had or anything else.   We're worried about the here and now.   We're worried about the next game and we need to win this next one, we need to win four in this series and we can worry about where we are then.   We can look back and think about what we've done and all that stuff.   We're not worried about that stuff.   We're worried about the game tomorrow and trying to get that one.

Q.   Your perimeter players, the job that they did allowing things to get easier to you and Tony inside‑‑
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, it was great.   We spread the floor.   A lot of credit to Tony because him getting to the basket early on really got them sucked in and he was able to find people.   I think every one of our guys moved the ball.   We were unselfish and that got everybody open shots, so we're going to continue to play that way.

Q.   Can you talk about what a defensive pest Bonner has become?
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, we found something that worked for him, or he's found something that works for him, whatever you want to call it.   And he's comfortable doing that and he's active doing that, and he's done a really good job.   You see him in the first years against Dwight Howard and he spent a lot of time guarding him and did a really good job with it.   I think when the whole team is kind of locked into him doing that and knowing he's going to do that, then we do a pretty good job with it.

Q.   Do you think for you guys to be successful for the rest of the series your depth has to really be much better than theirs?
TIM DUNCAN:   Our depth has been one of our strengths all season long.   With injuries happening all season long, guys stepping up, guys playing extended periods of time for different games, our depth has been our strength, so we're going to stick with it and hopefully it continues to‑‑ Pop continues to find the right combination of people to make us successful.

Q.   What are you expecting to see from Bonner and Gasol tomorrow?
TIM DUNCAN:   A lot of the same.   As I said, they're both going to be real aggressive.   They're also going to be real physical.   They're going to hit the glass even more than they have.   Obviously Marc is a very skilled player, shooting and passing the ball, so he's going to be their guy that's going to be moving the ball around and trying to get it in to Zach.

Q.   Coach Popovich talked about Kawhi being the possible face of the franchise going forward.   Do you see that potential there and what does he need to do to do that? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Kawhi is great.   He's evolving.   Obviously from last year to this year he's made tremendous leaps.   What he's going to be in the future, I don't know.   I won't be here to figure that out.   That's for you all to figure out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT