NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
June 1, 2012
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How will you guys respond in a Game 4? 
TIM DUNCAN:   We hope to clean up a lot of what we did yesterday and come out with a better effort start to finish.   We understood that they're going to be there.   We understood that they're going to use their home court advantage here in the building, and we let it get away from us.   Turned the ball over too much, allowed them to make plays a little too much.   We weren't solid enough.   We have to clean that up.

Q.   What felt more comfortable for you against their defense, being in the high post or the low post? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Either way.   It works either way.   We're going to have to make some plays on the high post a little bit, move the ball when I can.   Low post I need to score a lot better than I have.   I haven't shot the ball well at all in the post.   So I have to shore that up a little bit.

Q.   (No microphone)?
TIM DUNCAN:   They're doing a lot of switching.   They're ending up with a lot of different guys on a lot of different guys.   We have to take advantage of that.   We have to use the mismatches that we get from that.   Tony and Manu will be expecting those kind of switches and understand that they have to attack in a different way. 
Their length, size and athleticism is a huge advantage for them.   So we'll have to look at their bodies, move the ball, and ease the passing to initialize that a little bit.

Q.   What did they do a better job on (No microphone)?
TIM DUNCAN:   I honestly don't know.   I didn't realize that.   They were active on both ends.   I don't think it was any one thing that they did.   It's just kind of how the game went.

Q.   Do you feel you guys were effective turning Westbrook into more of a passer than a scorer? 
TIM DUNCAN:   They won the game last night when he was doing that.   So we're going to continue to try to defend him the best as possible.   We understand he's an explosive scorer.   We've done a pretty good job this far trying to contain him with it.
He's going to take the shots when they're there.   But all in all, I don't know that that was the key to much of anything.   I thought he did a good job of reading our defense and making us pay for it.

Q.   With the success that you've had and that win streak and losing a game like that, can that help to refocus you guys? 
TIM DUNCAN:   Yeah, hopefully it does. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT