NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 26, 2008
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tim, everybody is talking about your offense today. Obviously you were solid last night. You held those guys to 84 points defensively. That's still the key, right?   
 TIM DUNCAN: Absolutely the key. We have to contain them. We have to limit what they do.   
 Obviously they have the best scorer in the league and he can get off in stretches, so we have to be able to contain the rest of the team and understand that defense is what's going to get us over the hump.   
 At the same time, defensively we were good in the first two games but we went through stretches where we couldn't score the ball. So we have to put both of them together, be able to score the ball when we do get stops and when they make runs, we have to put the ball in the basket and try and slow them down.  
  
  Q. How difficult is this triangle offense? It is not typical, especially in the point guard position.   
 TIM DUNCAN: It is a great offense, it is a great offense. They move all over the place. You can't load up and defend people in a certain area. They are all over the place. That's why it has been so effective for so many years. They can move guys all over the floor, and easy way to double team, easy way to contain, and you don't know when things are coming.  
  
  Q. How much as a team did you benefit from the more motion?   
 TIM DUNCAN: I think it helped a lot, I think it got us an opportunity to move around, get the ball moving. As with the triangle, it didn't allow them to load up as much and get ready for what we were doing. I think we held a lot less plays and we moved the ball and let everybody be unselfish and take shots when we were there.   
  
  Q. Did you think Manu was on his game when hit the first two 3s?  
 TIM DUNCAN: I knew coming into the game he was going to be aggressive. He wanted to kind of get himself rolling and it always helps to hit your first shot. He hit the first one and the second one and he is off the to the races.  
  
  Q. How much have you had to stress the game here in San Antonio, especially the last couple with Tony and Manu, kind of (indiscernible)?  
 TIM DUNCAN: It has been a gradual process. It has been great. Those guys have stepped up and taken over a big part of the offense and my game has kind of changed over the years. So it has worked perfectly.  
  
  Q. Have you enjoyed the fact it is not all on you all the time?  
 TIM DUNCAN: Absolutely. I'm here to win, not to try to carry a team every night.  
  
  Q. Contributions from your older veterans on the team, Barry, Horry, do what do you expect from them in the series?   
 TIM DUNCAN: Hopefully a lot. We need big boosts from the bench. And I think those guys came in and did just that. We are going to need some players to step up and make shots and really spread the floor and we even got some really good plays from Fabricio.   
 We need guys to step up and find spots to make contributions.  
  
  Q. You talk about Brent running the point at times, the way he passes and dishes the ball?  
 TIM DUNCAN: He has always been great in that motion offense. I think he is most comfortable in that. So when he is allowed to go out there and handle the ball, he is able to make great passes and cuts and obviously nobody wants to leave him because they don't want him to get a shot off. Just in that it spreads their offense even more.  
  
  Q. You mentioned Fab's contribution?  
 TIM DUNCAN: He always does the little things. He is always great, he is always very physical and trying to do whatever he can, when we get some points from him and he is able to do the great job they did on Lamar, kind of containing him. We are going to need that the entire series if we have a chance.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 TIM DUNCAN: A lot of the same. Obviously come out and be very aggressive. They don't want to tie this series up, and we have to do the same. We have to come out there with the same respect and understand they believe they can just turn it around and come out and win a game on our home court. We don't want to go down 3-1 obviously. Hopefully the guys come out with the same aggression and move the ball the same way.  
  
  Q. Do you feel confident and comfortable with Manu and Tony taking more shots?  
 TIM DUNCAN: It is a gradual process. It wasn't any one time that I could say, hey, it was okay now. But those guys game along, worked them into the offense. They paid their dues. They played their games, and it all came along as it came along.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT