NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 25, 2008
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tim, did you guys see that coming from Manu? That kind of turnaround, anything that hinted at that? 
 TIM DUNCAN: We saw a turnaround coming. To say that we saw him come out and shoot the ball the way he did, can't say that. But knew he was going to be aggressive. Knew he was going to try to turn this series around for himself. Expected big things from him, yes.

 Q. Can you kind of tell me, as far as team dynamics go, what is Manu's role with criminal on the team? 
 TIM DUNCAN: He is an offensive spark plug. Obviously he makes -- he makes plays and he's a team guy on the defensive end. 
 But he's the guy that we need to put the ball in the hole. He needs to give us points that aren't easy. You can get up in situations where your offense stalls out or situations where you just can't put the ball in the hole. He is the kind of guy that we need to make plays for us.

 Q. Defensively, did you know you have to turn it up, especially after losing by 30 in Game 2?
 TIM DUNCAN: Absolutely, yeah. Absolutely. Honestly, although losing by 30 I think more a problem was putting the ball in the hole. Especially that Game 2. 
 And in the Game 1 where they came back into it, that's the same thing there. Defensively, I thought we have been pretty solid, we have been pretty good. We kept that going that same way today, but we scored some points. And they made a run but we were -- we continued to score the ball and kind of keep them at bay. 
 So our defense is huge, but on top of that we got to put the ball in the hole and not let their runs sustain like they did in Game 1 and 2. 

 Q. After Game 2 with Manu scoring so often early in this game, was that good from a confidence standpoint for the Spurs? 
 TIM DUNCAN: Obviously you see shots go down. It's great for everybody. It makes -- for whatever reason, it makes everybody else's shots a little bit easier. 
 We came in here to play a 48-minute game. He got rolling early and gave us the ability to kind of get a lead there and get a little bit of a cushion. 
 We expected to play this thing from horn to horn. And that's what we came in here thinking and wanting to do. 

 Q. Your big 3 obviously succeeded where the Lakers big 3 kind of didn't. Can you tell me about having that success there and coming to play?
 TIM DUNCAN: Well, it comes down to it players got to play and they got to play well. We all understand that. 
 Obviously Manu brought that to the table. Tony did a great job tonight. We got some good contributions from our bench. So when it comes down to it, it doesn't matter what the game plan is, it doesn't matter how you draw it up, people have to show up and people have to put performances on the floor. 

 Q. Odom and Gasol were 9-for-29 tonight combined. What did you sense different about those two tonight?
 TIM DUNCAN: Not a whole lot different. I didn't realize that Pau shot the way he did. I thought he shot a lot better than that. Felt like he made a lot more than that. But we need that defensive end effort on them to be able to have a chance in this series. 
 We understand what Kobe is going to do. We understand his ability level and his ability to take over a game whenever you see him like he wants to.
 But we have to limit what Pau and Lamar do. We have to make their offense tough. We have to limit what they do on the glass and that in itself makes what they do a lot tougher. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT