NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 22, 2008
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How are you doing this morning?   
 TIM DUNCAN: We made some mistakes in the fourth quarter and didn't shoot the ball well. On top of that, turned the ball over and just made some mental mistakes down the stretch there. They were better than us to finish the game. A lot of what was said last night.   
 But just ready to get back on the floor and try it again.  
  
  Q. Do you see how much was available to you in the second half?   
 TIM DUNCAN: Yeah, yeah, we saw a little bit of that. There were situations where I needed to be more aggressive and make sure we play defense and get the ball as much as possible. We'll change that and do that differently next game.  
  
  Q. Pop said last night that those kind of losses (indiscernible).   
 TIM DUNCAN: We can't feel sorry for ourself. I think we are a little bit beyond that. I think we're pissed off and we'll do things better and get energy in that regard.  
  
  Q. As frustrated as you were, you seem really encouraged. Other than losing, the way you guys played --  
 TIM DUNCAN: Defensively, we were good. Kept them within scoring range that we wanted. Offensively, we -- we could have been better, but we just didn't do the right thing at the right time. You get to a game and you are up 20 points, you have done pretty good for the game. You give that lead away, and all of a sudden all the good is bad.   
 But there is still a point you got up 20 points. We'll take some positives from that.   
  
  Q. Did you struggle when you went small to try to match them down the floor?   
 TIM DUNCAN: I think it was just a struggle -- I don't know what the reason is, if it is because we're small, because of the matchups. I don't know that that was the reason in any respect. We just didn't get anything done through the stretch, and that's the bottom line. However you want to define it as, our lineups, our shots, our decisions, whatever it may be, we just couldn't -- we couldn't get anything to go down for us or stop the runs.  
  
  Q. (Question about team's health.)  
TIM DUNCAN: Banged up, everybody is banged up, everybody is a little tired. Everybody is trying to -- they are two teams trying to make it to the finals. We don't care how they feel, and they don't care how we feel. Tony knows that. Everybody on the team knows that. We're going to do what we can to get our bodies feeling good and to get back in the right direction.   
  
  Q. Tim, do you remember losing games like that? How do you avoid that lingering?   
 TIM DUNCAN: We got a veteran squad. We are a little pissed about giving up a lead like that and giving up an opportunity. We do understand we did pretty well and that we should have won a game and we will get back on the court and hopefully get that same effort, that same attention to detail and clean up a couple of things and do a better job.  
  
  Q. There were times last night when you got the ball like on the elbow and turned and you ended up passing and you might have had some room. Are those the opportunities you are talking about you should have taken it right to the hole?   
 TIM DUNCAN: Yeah, there was a lot of those. They made a point of double-teaming Manu and Tony sometimes and I could have gone down the middle of the floor to keep the defense a little more honest. I think I made a couple of those plays, all of a sudden they are double-teaming Manu and Tony aren't what they want to do. I have to make better decisions and make better plays.  
  
  Q. In Game 2 when you turn and see that, there will be no hesitation on your part?  
 TIM DUNCAN: I will try to make a better play.   
  
  Q. Giving away a lead that you gave away, did you give it away or can they take it?   
 TIM DUNCAN: I don't want to take anything away from them. Obviously they played excellent. Kobe stepped up and played big. A lot of credit to them. Obviously they came and they took it. They were down 20. They didn't give up. They didn't pack it in. They came back at us and they took the lead back.   
  
  Q. When you are at this level, does it matter that you lost a lead by 20? Is a loss a loss?   
 TIM DUNCAN: A loss is a loss. A loss is a loss. The goal is to get to four games. That's the goal, however it gets done. We are down one game. That's all that matters.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 TIM DUNCAN: I think their execution down the stretch, I think just poor decision-making, turning the ball over. We got shots late in the clock.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT