NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2008
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk a little about playing with David again.   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Should be interesting.  We'll see if he's been working on his game or if he's let it slack off a little bit.  Hopefully, he can make a shot or two.  I don't know if I can.  Bottom line is if Becky doesn't carry us, we don't have a chance.   
  
  Q.  He already said he should shoot three better than you.   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Oh, really?  Really.  I'll have bets on four shots, an air ball, but that's just me.   
  
  Q.  Mike told him, "Don't embarrass us."   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Yeah, you know what, that's what I'm going out there for, too.  Just not to embarrass myself.  And it will be fun to see what he has.  I'll be messing with him the whole time, so it will be cool.   
  
  Q.  Will it be kind of strange to be back on the court with him again?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Oh, yeah.  He would have never guessed that.  I've been trying a bunch of years to get him back out there.  He keeps saying no, but I've got to be out here with him one more time, it will be all right.   
  
  Q.  In the stands, David West is kind of the anonymous All-Star this week.  You're familiar with him because you play him so often.  What about his game and his improvement in the last couple of years?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  I think his confidence.  He's just solid.  He's been pretty solid for a couple of years now.  Now he's at a point where he's on a very good ballclub, and they may get a little more exposure.   
 As I said, he's been that steady guy for them.   
  
  Q.  He's the kind of guy that likes to blend into the background.  As an All-Star, he can't do that this week.   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Definitely do that.  Blending is good.  Blending is good.  He made it to the team.  He's where he wants to be, and it's kind of hard not to be recognized from now on.  Because as you go, you're All-Star David West from now on.  So everybody's known about him.  And everybody knows a lot more about him now.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about being back here again for this one?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Every year I get voted in and I say it and I mean it every time, I'm shocked every time I get voted in.  I really am.  It's amazing the fans continue to support me and continue to vote me on to this team.  It's an honor to be here, especially for the tenth time.  I love playing in the game.   
  
  Q.  How about Shaq coming back?  It looks like a move kind of directed at the Spurs, because you've had their number so many times in the past.   
 TIM DUNCAN:  You know, Shaq out west, Steve made a very ballsy move in doing it, and I give him credit for it.  He made a move to try to make that team better, and get them in the playoffs.  Shaq's definitely a guy that can help you do that.   
  
  Q.  Of all All-Star Games you've played, which is the most special and why?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  I don't have one over the other, honestly.   
  
  Q.  Was there a city that was the best?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  No.  I was going to say, there were no locations that were close to home or anything like that.  So there's not one more than the other that I can name.  Probably my first one in New York would be the most number one because it would be my first time.   
  
  Q.  How about the one where you shared the MVP award with Shaq?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  That was a great one, too.  But going into it, it wasn't anything special.  It worked out the way it did.  Of course there was a great ending to it.  And I'm honored to be a part of that.  The MVP's of the All-Star Game.  But the location or anything else wasn't anything.   
  
  Q.  Was your game not an All-Star MVP sort of game?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  No, no.  I got little or no chance.  I got lucky one night, I think.   
  
  Q.  Are you one of those Manu supporters?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  I am a supporter.  There are a lot of guys that got left out of the All-Star Game that really deserved to be here.  We're in a situation where we've got three guys that are basically playing at All-Star level.  In some respect, we kind of cancel each other out.  But those guys have played great the first half of the season.  Tony played solid, then he got hurt.  Manu's played great, and ended the first half of the season great, obviously.  Love to have seen him here, but understandably they're not.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT