NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What are your memories of Steve as a player and then as a coach on the sideline and now as head coach?  TIM DUNCAN: Great teammate, smart player.  Obviously had a lot of experience when he got to us.  Enjoyed talking and listening to him.  Never thought of him as a coach, honestly.  But great to see him and great to see the success that he's had. I spoke with him a little while ago; he's really enjoying it.  So I'm happy for him.   Q.  (Inaudible) .  TIM DUNCAN: Like have fun.  It's a downtime for us.  And a time to enjoy getting to know some of the other guys around the league, and spending time with them.  And just to have as much fun as possible in the game.   Q.  (Inaudible) .  TIM DUNCAN: It's great.  I think it's unfortunate a lot of the guys are hurt.  It's wonderful to see the talent that's coming about and how they're really taking over this league.  It's great.   Q.  What do you think that the job Mike Budenholzer has done?  Best record.  TIM DUNCAN: He's been great.  He's done -- obviously comes from Pop's system.  He's done exactly what Pop would do.  He just kind of stayed on him and kept hammering and kept pushing until they started to believe that their system would really work.  I think once they bought into that and they started winning games, the guys understood that's the way it should be played.  He's proven you can win that way.   Q.  Some people would say, Wow, Tim would rather have the day off.  What could this prove at this point in your career (Inaudible) ?  TIM DUNCAN: It's an honor to be here.  Especially selected by the coaches, for them believing that I'm of All-Star caliber.  It's great to be here.   Q.  (Inaudible) .  TIM DUNCAN: Oh, yeah.  Absolutely.  It just means more that they still think I'm playing at that level.  I can affect the game and help my team and play at that level at this point of my career.   Q.  (Inaudible) .  TIM DUNCAN: Different guys.  Different venues.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT