NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 30, 2007
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tim, you had to struggle a lot against their defense during the last two games.  How was it today to recover some sensation and being the player you always have been during the series?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  It was great to start the way we started  and just able to get out to a lead there to get some shots to fall, to really start feeling good early in the game.   
 We just took control and we kept control.  It was a good game all around and just a great way to start.   
  
  Q.  Tim, it was only two plays right at the beginning of the ball game when Finley hit the couple of jump shots.  It seemed like that set the tone for everything and loosened up inside, I presume.   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Yeah, yeah.  When our shooters start hitting shots like that, everything is going to open up and we are going to get those guys shots between Tony, Manu and myself.  It is kind of our -- what we do to get in the lane, to draw deep defenders and to get our shooters those kinds of shot.   
 Mike shot it great on the first two possessions to knock them out.  I think the key to that whole first quarter was defensively we were really solid.  We did a really good job containing Deron and Carlos in that first quarter and giving ourselves a leap.   
  
  Q.  Tim, have you talked to some of the guys that haven't been to the Finals before about what to expect and stay sharp with the layoff you have?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  We haven't talked about that right now.  We are enjoying the win.  We are enjoying the night.  We will turn that corner here in a day or two and start getting prepared for that.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your opinion of the youth Jazz as an up-and-coming emerging team in the west?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  They are going to be a great team.  They will be a great team for a lot of years.  With Carlos and Deron and Mehmet and A.K., those guys will be around for a long time.  They will continue to get better.  I think this was a great playoff experience time for them.   
 I think they are only going to build on that.  And Coach Sloan does it year in and year out.  He puts together teams that play the right way, that play hard.  And you have the talent that they have, they will be good for a lot of years.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT