NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 28, 2007
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tim, how effective do you think the doubles were in the second half, getting the ball out of Deron's hands? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  We changed defense a couple times in the second half.  Obviously he was playing it very well and he was hurting us, so we just had to kind of keep him guessing. 
 We changed defenses three or four times, just to give him different looks, get him thinking about it.  He had obviously kind of caught on to what we were doing and was really coming off and feeling comfortable coming off the screens.  So we just changed it up a little bit. 

 Q.  Talk about the difference in your guys' attitude from last game to tonight and just the mentality you have to have. 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I don't know that the attitude was much different.  I think we came out and played a little more physical.  Our effort was a lot better.  Our focus was a lot better.  And of course we made some shots down the stretch.  And I think it is just the difference in the game.  I don't know that we changed game plans a whole lot. 
 I don't think we had a different attitude.  We just played a little better. 

 Q.  They seemed to be taking a lot more jump shots, even Boozer on the pick-and-rolls was stepping back into 15-footers.  Were you and Fabricio trying to take anything away from him defensively? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  We have been trying to take stuff away from him all series long, all the easy stuff.  He is great around the basket with either hand, and that's been a big key in this entire series, trying to make his shots difficult, make him get something away from the basket.  He has done a good job of shooting from that range.  We got a couple of misses down the stretch from him and were able to get some stops on them. 

 Q.  Tim, it has been well documented how each franchise has been difficult winning on the other team's floor. 
 TIM DUNCAN:  It could have been a tied series and a whole new ball game.  We put them in the hole now with the 3-1 going back to our house. 
 It is a great position to be in.  We don't in any way think we are just going to walk in our building and take these guys out.  They have shown they can play with us. 
 They have shown that they know what they are doing and they are very physical.  They are going to bring even more of that energy to Game 5.  So we will have to bring our best game to close them out. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT