NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 27, 2007
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How are you feeling today? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  Feel good.  It's not fun to lose and all that stuff.  But physically I feel pretty good.  Mentally, I am excited to get back on the court and try to get ... 

 Q.  Is it difficult obviously for you to get into a rhythm when you are sitting in foul trouble? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I think it is difficult for anyone with sporadic time on the court, and foul trouble also takes away a lot of your aggressiveness. 
 It was tough, a tough situation. 

 Q.  Tim, somebody like yourself who played four years in college, Deron Williams played three years, made it to a Final Four, played in the tournament.  How do you think that experience prepared him to play as well as he has? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I think he had kind of a bumpy year last year, although he was very solid.  I think the experience of having those years in college that you see it really paying off.  He has got a good handle on the game.  And also as a young player, I think he has got a lot of experience for only being a second-year.  Obviously he played very well against us. 

 Q.  The cut on your eye, was that the scrape across the face in the first half?  Is that when you got that? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  No.  It was after that on a rebound.  Someone threw an elbow and hit me in the face. 

 Q.  Was a foul called?  Did you see the rest of the team struggle when you were not on the floor consistently? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I don't think that was especially how it went.  I think on top of me not being on the floor, I think I might have forced it a little bit going back into the game and trying to get something to happen when I was on the floor. 
 So I will shoulder a lot of that responsibility in not only not being on the floor, but when I was on the floor, not playing the right way. 

 Q.  Which was the worst beat?  The Spurs in the second half or Lidell? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  It was pretty close, pretty close, pretty bad.  Yeah, it was pretty bad both ways. 

 Q.  Did Manu have any comment on the cut on your eye? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  Honestly, I thought it was sexy when he had it and I thought I would try it out.  I am just trying to get to his level. 

 Q.  So what's your conclusion?  Sexy? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I think it is a sexy look.  That's what I am sticking with. 

 Q.  Typically, you guys respond pretty well after a game like that.  Do you expect that tomorrow? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I hope so.  I am expecting it.  I hope we come out and have the same kind of response that we do when we lose games.  Obviously, Coach got on our butts a little bit and showed us a lot of things that we've done wrong.  We have a lot of areas we can clean up very easily.  If we do those things, I think we will be in the right position. 

 Q.  What bothered you the most about the things you need to correct? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  Obviously my turnovers, having eight of them is not a situation I want to be in, obviously.  They were better than us on the boards, which is always a big key to playing Utah. 
 They got way too many easy things at the basket.  They got too many dunks to do well, got to the front of the basket and laid them up a couple of times.  Too many easy stuff.  Just a lot of things we can clean up very easily. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT