NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 26, 2007
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tim, were they any more active?  Was Mehmet more active in terms of trying to get deflections and things like that when they posted you in the first half?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  He caused some turnovers.  Whether it be more active or just got his hands on the ball, whatever it may be, he did a much better job.   
  
  Q.  Can you just talk about your night in general and why things didn't go your way.   
 TIM DUNCAN:  I hate to keep it simple.  They just played a better game than us for a longer time.   
 We did a pretty good job in the first quarter, and outside of that, I don't think we had a very good quarter from there on.  They were aggressive.  They were physical.  Their guys shot the ball well.  They just had things happening for them, and I give them a lot of credit.   
  
  Q.  How about individually?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Individually?  It's tough to get going and to stay aggressive when you have fouls on you like that.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the fouls and the Jazz defense got in your head there towards the second half?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  I think the fouls did.   
  
  Q.  Not the defense?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  No.  They played well on defense.  They did.  Mehmet did an excellent job.  As I said, he was very good at keeping a hand in there and he got some deflections.  All in all, he did a pretty decent job.   
  
  Q.  Would you talk about the difference in the third quarter.  They just seemed to play at a different level in the third quarter as opposed to the first half?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Yeah, they pulled away in the third quarter.  As I said, we played that first quarter, an excellent quarter.  Second quarter they played better than us.  Third quarter they really busted it and were able to sustain, for whatever reason.  We got a little tentative there with some of the foul trouble we were in.  They took advantage of that.   
 They really attacked the basket and some of their guys hit the shots and opened it up for them.   
  
  Q.  Was there a difference in energy in the second half as well between the two teams?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  I think there is a difference of energy the entire game.  They won that battle.  They used their crowd.  They used the energy in this building.  As everyone knows, they are undefeated in this building in the playoffs and they play well here.   
 So they definitely had more energy than us sustained throughout.   
  
  Q.  Tim, you guys are a team that prides itself on defense, shutting teams down.  Bruce Bowen was assigned to Deron for much of the game and Deron had a solid game and Bruce struggled.  What was the difference?  Was Deron quicker or what happened?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  He had a good game.  That's why basketball is basketball.  People are going to have nights.  You are able to get off some nights, and he did that tonight.  I thought he did an excellent job of taking a shot when it was there and he also did an excellent job of finding people.   
 He found Booze down the middle a bunch of times.  He was just good passing the ball.  And when he wasn't passing the ball.  He was attacking the rim real hard and he got some fouls.  He made some layups and he caught us with our head turned a couple of times where he went right down the middle and laid it up.  All in all, just thought he did an excellent job.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT