NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 22, 2007
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tim, give me a sense on what you guys were not able to do against Carlos tonight.  He just continues to have bigger and bigger games.  He was an integral part of the comeback when he finished with 33 and 15.   
 TIM DUNCAN:  He played well, he really did.  Shot the ball well.  I still believe he took the shots that we wanted him to take.  He shot the ball well from 15 to 17 feet, knocked some shots out there.   
 As you said, he was really good on the boards for them.  And that's his role.  That's what he is going to have to do to contend.  We expect that from him and we will have to counter it and do a little better job with him next time.   
  
  Q.  Tim, these first two games in the series, you guys have sensed going for the kill in the second quarter.  Is that something you guys have thought about?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  No.  It is what it is.  We are going to play the game and take the shots that are there and make the plays that are there and those are the times we have made our runs.  It is not by design.  It is not by anything else other than we are playing possession to possession, and unfortunately they have been able to get back in the games in the second half a little bit.  But we really hadn't changed our game plan or done anything different from half to half.   
  
  Q.  After losing the rebounding battle by 13, 15 in Game 1, how big was it for you to win it tonight the way you did?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  We knew it was a huge feat coming in here.  We couldn't give up another 20 offensive rebounds to those guys and give up that many second shots.  They get ten more shots than us.  All in all, their second-chance points are under control a little bit.  Still a little bit more than we want obviously, but if we win that battle in games throughout this season, we win the rebounding battle, we win the games.  So that's big for us.   
  
  Q.  Tim, can you talk about the role-players like Oberto and Barry, two straight games for Oberto?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Oberto has been great.  He understands the game.  He understands where he has got to be and he continues to get open and every shot he takes is right at the rim, so you can get shots like that on a consistent basis.   
 Also, he has been great on the defensive end.  He has been very physical with those guys and a very physical ball game.  He's taking some shots from guys, giving some shots to guys.  We need that kind of energy.  We need that kind of physicality to continue.   
  
  Q.  Tim, how are you building that wall to keep Boozer from the dunkings and all the stuff he likes to get at the rim?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  I don't know that we are doing anything else other than recognizing it.  I think we are understanding what he wants to do and where he wants to be and we are countering it by being there.  We are not giving up those angles.  We are not giving up -- trying not to give up the easy stuff.  I think he worked hard -- really hard tonight and got some stuff, got some offensive rebounds, got some and-ones.  Their motion to throw it up to the corner and throw it right in there I think we have done a good job of containing that.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about Tony's ball distribution tonight?  14 assists.   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Yeah, that was great for us.  I think that was a big point coming into this game.  Pop got on him about that and knowing they are packing the lane in and that our shooters are going to be open and I thought he did a great job of using enough dribbles to draw people and finding our shooters.   
 He got Brent off.  He got Bruce off in that fourth quarter.  All of those shots were because of his penetration.  If their shots are going to be there, we love our shooters to shoot their shots.  We've got some of the best shooters in the league.  If we can get them wide-open chances, we like our chances.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about going to Salt Lake and how difficult you expect it to be?   
 TIM DUNCAN:  Very difficult.  Obviously we've lost two games there this year.  And they haven't lost a game in the playoffs there.   
 So we understand that they are going to use that crowd's energy.  They will be a lot more confident playing in that building and we are going to have to bring a much better effort than we had here to beat those guys.   
 So we are going to go in there and try to get that first game and really put the pressure on them.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT