NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 20, 2007
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What's your coverage plan for Boozer going into the series as a team and how did you think you did get him? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I thought we did really well against him.  I thought he took shots outside his arsenal and he made shots.  The shots he didn't make were shots that he doesn't usually get.  All in all we were man up on him.  We understand his tendencies and we will try to make things as difficult as possible try to make him make shots over time. 

 Q.  Tim, Pop mentioned two things about the second half, he didn't know if it was being self-satisfied with the lead or maybe tired with the quick turnaround, do you have any idea there? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  They outplayed us the second half, bottom line.  I thought they did an excellent job in the offensive glass.  They gave themselves a bunch of opportunities.  They continued to push, and for whatever reason they just outplayed us.  There is no two ways about it. 

 Q.  Tim, are you often involved in the coaches' discussions during the timeouts before Pop comes to the huddle like I think you were in the second half? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  No.  I walk over once in a while but I am usually -- 90% of the time I am not up there.  Sometimes I walk up there if I have something to say or if I got nothing else to do. 

 Q.  You just wanted to impart -- 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I don't think I had anything to say.  I think I was just in that area. 

 Q.  Tim, you guys broke open the game there in the second quarter.  What started to turn your way there? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I thought we were really solid defensively.  I thought we got some stops and they weren't hurting us as badly on the offensive glass.  We led them to one shot and got out and were able to push it up the floor. 
 We moved the ball really well.  We had a good rhythm to our game in the second quarter and just had the ability to just jump out a little bit.  I don't know if there is any one thing I can point to.  We hit some shots got some layups.  Just easy baskets.  I don't think we had a whole lot of that in the second half which gave them an opportunity to get back in the game. 

 Q.  Tim, you mentioned they outplayed you in the second half.  Did fatigue from a short turnaround play any factor in that? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  You can say it does, but honestly I think they just played better in that second half.  They are a very physical ball club.  They got a bunch of offensive rebounds.  They just played better.  They played better in the second half.  I don't know what it is.  You can say it was jitters.  You can say they had extra days off, maybe a little bit of rust.  But they played better in the second half and we didn't.  We played good enough, though, ?by the way. 

 Q.  Tim, were you really surprised that they got out so early on you guys and talk about what Manu did to get you guys stablized? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  We have had some struggles in the first quarter for whatever reason to get out of the gates.  I don't know what the explanation is for it.  But they got a couple-point lead and so much time left in the ball game.  We are not worried about it. 
 We want to get a good shot, see the ball go to the hoop one time and go from there.  Whatever, whether it was 7 or 9 or zero, whatever it was, I don't think there is anybody worried over there.  We continue to do the same stuff, continue to take the same shots and eventually things start going for us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT