NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 19, 2006
Tim Duncan
Tracy McGrady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Were you fouled in the last play against LeBron? 
 TRACY MCGRADY:  Yes, absolutely, yes.  (Laughter). 
 Q.  There's no way you're going to shoot an air ball. 
 TRACY MCGRADY:  No, especially not with the game on the line like that anyway. 
 Q.  Could you talk about how you kind of needed a night like this, all you've gone through this year, was it good to have a night like this? 
 TRACY MCGRADY:  It was just good to get out and have some sort of a scapegoat, so to speak, all of the things I've been dealing with personally, and you know, this was just an opportunity for me to have a peace of mind and just go out and have some fun. 
 Definitely took full advantage of that. 
 Q.  All-Star Games are fun, but you guys are competitors, was there ever a point where you're looking at it like, now is the time you turn it on and go, or is that from tip-off? 
 TRACY MCGRADY:  I think tonight the first two quarters was more entertainment than anything.  Those guys, they came out in the third quarter and was ready to play ball.  We saw that they turned it on and we made it a ballgame.  That's what the fans come to see, excitement, and also competitiveness, and that's what we gave them. 
 Tim Duncan is up here, to my left. 
 Q.  Were you out there against the Pistons as a unit and could you tell that they were a unit? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I could definitely see it whether I was up there or not.  I don't think I was up there for too long a time but you could definitely see the game change when they were running all together. 
 Q.  Could you feel your teammates trying to get you the ball and get you the MVP tonight? 
 TRACY MCGRADY:  That was the whole strategy.  That was a nice game tonight.  Obviously those guys did a great job.  First of all, just their kindness to want me to get the MVP.  And they were doing their best to try to give me the ball at every opportunity down the court, free me up and give me shots.  It was there if we would have won the game. 
 Q.  Did you guys have to teach Yao the dance movement in were you worried about him out there? 
 TRACY MCGRADY:  Yeah, he we were a little skeptical about doing that because we didn't know if Yao was going to cop out on us, if he was going to shy away and not participate. 
 He looked pretty smooth doing it. 
 Q.  Can you talk, also, just about his game, it was a quiet night for him and being out there with him? 
 TRACY MCGRADY:  This is more of a guard's game, guys like myself and LeBron, D-Wade and Allen Iverson; it's a guard show.  It's hard for big men to get touches because we handle the ball 95 percent of the time.  Every now and then we throw the ball inside to the big guy. 
 It's really no excitement in throwing the ball to them down there.  So that's -- 
 TIM DUNCAN:  (Throwing up hands, shrugging shoulders, exits interview room.) 
TRACY MCGRADY:  Your game, it's effective (looking at Tim), but it's boring. 
 Come on, this is the All-Star Game, man.  You want to see dunks, you don't want to see guys back down like Charles Barkley, you wants to see threes, dunks, alley-oops.  Shaq tries to give you flashes every now and then, but he's rusty.  (Laughter) Tell him I said that, too.  Has he been on the podium yet? 
 Q.  Getting back to the dance at the start of the game, who won that battle, the Eastern guys or you guys?  And was that something that came from the league or was it you guys? 
 TRACY MCGRADY:  Actually, they surprised us.  We was just standing in the back and watching the introduction and we saw them do their little routine, so right then and there, we had to come up with something quick. 
 I think Steve Nash came up with the idea of doing that, and everybody was down.  So, you know, we have creative minds, we came up with a great idea pretty quick. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT