NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 19, 2005
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. The play of Robert Horry, you were carrying the team, it seemed, about the first three-and-a-half quarters and then he just took over and just had a big game from that point on. 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Yeah, unbelievable.  That was probably the greatest performance I've ever been a part of, to just see him there and to see him as calm as he was and willing to do whatever.  He was picking up charges, getting the rebounds and although continue to show is the shots that he knocked down but he did so much more than that down the stretch. 
 
Q.  Did you think he had enough to get that final shot in, all the energy he expended in that ten-minute span?
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Do I think he had enough?  It's Bobby Horry.  He does whatever he wants to do.  He's Big Shot Bob.  He does whatever he wants to do. 
 
Q.  Did the fourth quarter seem like a nightmare to you with all of the missed free throws and then you missed the tip at the end, and what was going through your mind at the end of regulation?
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Absolute nightmare, yes, and it all compounded itself in the fourth quarter.  We were happy to get the last shot.  That's what we wanted at the end of the game in regulation, we wanted that last shot and we talked about getting the ball up in time to have an opportunity for that offensive rebound.  We did that, I had the chance, it didn't go down, and the overtime we continued to play, we just knew there was a whole lot of possessions to be had.  Guys were just impressive all around, Tony Parker, Manu continuing to attack, and of course Bobby.  
 
Q.  Have you ever had a stretch like that from the free throw line in a big game before?
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Absolutely.  (Laughter). 
 
Q.  We saw in the replay after Horry's three-pointer, a big hug from you, and was that relief we saw in your face?
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Absolutely, yes, definitely.  He pulled me out of an incredible hole that I put myself in.  Just talking about the team, everybody just kept on playing, we just kept on pushing through.  As I said, we just know how many possessions were left and continued to play every possession.  Whether they were down, they were up four, whatever, it looks really bleak, but guys just pressed through it.  We got rebounds and pushed back up the floor.  Some shots didn't fall but we kept on playing.  
 
Q.  The amazing thing about Rob is that he looked so out of it in the first half, he really could not finish, and you guys have seen that from him before, right?  It's like you can't really put him on the bench because he may suddenly snap into it. 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  You know what, I'll tell you the deal with Rob, Rob just hangs out the entire game.  He does it all season long, he doesn't do anything.  He doesn't feel like playing.  He shows up sometimes, and then you put him in the fourth quarter in a big game, whether it be regular season or the playoffs, and he's like, "Okay, it's time to play now.  I've been hanging out the entire season, it's time to play now."  And he just turns it on.  (Laughter). As funny as that seems, it's how it looks.  It's how it is.  He doesn't show up, doesn't feel like playing until it's a big game.  (Laughter). 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT