NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 17, 2005
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You've been guarded pretty evenly by their three big guys.  Can you just talk about what each one of them brings to the table and does the fact that you've got those three different looks, is that something that prevents you from getting in more of a rhythm? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  What was the last thing?  
 
Q.  The fact that you've got three different guys to go against. 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Prevents me from what?  
 
Q.  Getting on a roll, getting into a rhythm?
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Yes, they are very different in what they do.  They throw a lot of different bodies at you, and Ben and Rasheed and Dyess do so many different things.  They have been effective, so yes, it does affect me.  But at the same time, I believe I've gotten a lot of shots that on a regular basis I would knock down, I would make, and I hope to do that in the next game. 
 
Q.  After Game 3, you were somewhat critical of your performance and you just said you would have knocked down some shots ordinarily that you didn't.  Yesterday, how would you characterize your play in Game 4 overall? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  I played very poorly.  I thought I was a lot more aggressive.  I thought I made some good moves, just unable to finish, whether it be their defense or just missing some shots.  I think it fueled a lot of what they were doing.  Some situations where I missed shots and they run out off the rebounds, but that's all of us.  So we have to continue to attack and get to the rim as much as possible and hope that we can draw some fouls. 
 
Q.  Who in your opinion over the course of your career has defended you best? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  I don't know.  I don't know how to answer that question.  Every defender brings a different challenge.  I don't want to avoid your question.  I just don't know how to answer that question.  
 
Q.  Pop said last night that he may have talked to you more in the fourth quarter last night than he has over the last couple of days.  We've seen that before in situations through your career where he's talking to you for a long period of time in blowout losses like that.  Can you characterize what those conversations are like? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  What did we talk about?  I honestly don't really remember what we talked about.  It's all kind of a blur at that time.  I think we're both frustrated at that time.  We're both, I don't want to say we're looking for answers, but we're both just kinds of in a daze.  I know I am.  I know he's always focused on the game and if it is a situation like last night, he's focused on what we have to do for the next game.  So either he's already starting to coach for the next game and trying to throw me whatever hints or things that he believes that either I have to do or we have to do as a team.  But honestly, I couldn't tell you what he told me last night.  
 
Q.  We're used to seeing you being almost automatic out there sometimes where it almost looks easy and these two games, so uncharacteristic for you.  What is it starting to feel like out there as it's getting away from you, even the open shots you mentioned not going in? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  It's just frustrating.  It's just frustrating, because especially in this time of the year and on this stage, I feel like those shots should be going down for me.  I should be able to make those shots.  But they don't, and they didn't go down, and the frustration is there, of course, and the frustration on a personal level, frustration for my teammates.  But I look forward to the next game and I look forward to getting out there and having these two days to really get some shots up, get a little bit of practice in, and get back out on the floor for Game 5. 
 
Q.  As much as at this time of the year many players have to play well in order to win, is there a sense that for your team it has to begin with you? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Absolutely.  Yeah, that's where it begins.  
 
Q.  Can you describe why that would be, that a player such as yourself has to sort of set that tone?
 
TIM DUNCAN:  I have to be a leader.  I am the leader of this team.  So it starts with me, and I understand that.  But at the same time, a lot of people are going to take responsibility into this next game, and I think Tony is going to really step up and really increase his play and increase his pressure and try to make things happen that way.  Manu is going to take his time.  Bruce is going to continue to do what he's going to do.  So people are going to step up, and I believe personally and I think everybody believes it, it starts with me and it starts with what I'm doing for them.  
 
Q.  All week long, so many of your teammates have been talking about how Coach Popovich knows when to light a fire under his team and knows when to pat his players on the back.  What is it about Coach Popovich's relationship with his team that allows the players to embrace that coaching philosophy and that management style so well? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  I think we just understand that he's going to get on us when it's right, and it's not an ongoing, all-the-time thing, and I think that style really wears on players and you lose a lot of respect for people when they do that.  He does it at the right time.  As you say, he'll pat you on the back at the right time and he'll kick you in the ass at the right time and he knows how to balance that.  I believe it's the most effective way to do things.  
 
Q.  Manu is kind of a new NBA star, what advice can you give him when a defense is ganging up on him like that and making him a focus? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Take your time.  What they have done over the last two games is make us react to what they do.  They have been aggressive defensively and they have got us back on our heels and they make us kind of counter what they are doing, instead of them countering what we're doing.  So it's just about him taking his time.  He's got all of the skills in the world, and it's about going out there and being effective on the level that he counters what they do.  He makes them understand that if they are going to collapse and double- and triple-team him, he's going to make the pass that leads to a score, whatever it may be.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT