NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 16, 2005
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys said repeatedly after Game 3 that you needed to protect the basketball.  You talked about the importance of offensive boards.  Why were you unable to make the adjustments that you talked so much about making?

TIM DUNCAN:  We made the adjustments.  Things just didn't go as planned.  Sometimes it goes that way.  They did an excellent job of once again defending, sending their pressure and it took us too long to adjust to it.  We thought coming in here, we had that adjustment made, but it didn't happen for that period of time. 

Q.  When you see seven players in double figures on the other side, what does that tell you? 

TIM DUNCAN:  They moved the ball great.  They did it great.  Every board they got, they pushed it up the floor, their bigs were running the floor, they hung on the offensive glass.  They got it done in many different ways.  They played an excellent game all the way around.

Q.  How physical is it in there?

TIM DUNCAN:  It's a very physical game.  Those guys they throw a lot of bodies into you, and each with their own little style.  Some are physical, some are loose or whatever it may be.  But as I said, they just did an excellent job all the way around. 

Q.  Last game you guys scored last game 79 and now 71, your two playoff lows --

TIM DUNCAN:  Their defense started well.  It is also about the shots falling.  I can think of about five shots that I should have made, not that that changes the game that drastically, but at the same time, it's a momentum-swinger.  It's time to hit shots and they had an opportunity to run, so I can put that on myself.  I know there's a lot of my teammates that would love to take back a couple of shots that they took.  But, not taking any credit from them, they had a heck of a defensive game.  They are a very good defensive team from one to five.  And they put it all together tonight.

Q.  What happened to the ball circulation of the first two games?  It's like with their pressure, is each guy trying to do too much individually?  It seems like things were slowing down and getting stagnant and the ball is not moving that much. 

TIM DUNCAN:  We had that problem early on, the ball was sticking a whole lot, people were attempting to make moves as individuals, and the ball just stopped and they are an excellent defensive club when that happens.  When they are able to lock into an individual and know where their rotations are, maybe get across the lane and affect shots, that's when they are at their best.  We didn't counter that early on, and they got up on us and then late, late in the third, fourth quarter, we started playing a little better, but we were already down 20 points, so it just didn't work. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT