NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 14, 2005
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Ben Wallace seemed like he was a man possessed tonight on both ends of the court.  Can you talk about Ben Wallace's play. 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  He was great.  He was great.  Came out with a lot of energy and really got the crowd and his team into it.  Hit the glass hard all night.  I thought he played excellent all around.  
 
Q.  Did he seem like he played a much more impressive, much more determined, a focused game than the games he played in San Antonio? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Absolutely.  
 
Q.  You guys were tied late in the third quarter, what broke down at that point? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Things that were killing us all night, turnovers, offensive boards, and we just couldn't get anything going on the offensive end, namely myself.  I got some shots there but I couldn't knock them down and just fueled their run.  
 
Q.  Talk about the guard play for the Pistons, especially Chauncey, and the big run that he had that kind of separated the two teams. 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Yeah, Chauncey has been a point of ours and will continue to be.  A great player, a heck of a point guard and with his size and his knowledge of the game, he's effective in so many parts of the floor, and as you said, he kind of made a single-man run there for a little while, and they look to him a lot for that.  We've got to know that come situations like that, whenever there is a big play to make, he is the guy they are going to look to to make it.  
 
Q.  Seemed like in Games 1 and 2, your ball movement as a team was superior, and tonight, it seemed to be lacking.  Any explanation for that, and did they try anything differently?
 
TIM DUNCAN:  I don't know if they tried anything differently.  Their aggressiveness was up, so that in itself fueled what they were doing.  They were out in the passing lanes, they got a steal here and there, and then also that energy kind of builds up and you make runs, you make plays, plays that they were not making in the first two games.  Nothing else to really say about it.  I just think they were more aggressive than we were.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT