NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 12, 2005
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Again, another complete game for you guys, but how much easier does if make it when the guys are raining in threes like that?
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Yeah, it makes it that much easier.  We just moved the ball so well early, and on top of that, we knock out shots and we really spread the floor.  So when we're playing on that level and hitting shots like that, we're really tough to beat.  
 
Q.  Is this the most successful you guys have been in some time compressing a really good defensive team, really stretching them and getting the ball to open shooters? 
 
TIM DUNCAN:  Yeah, it has been.  We've played in so many kind of different series throughout these playoffs, different types of teams, and we knew coming in here that they would be the best defensive team that we would face.  But we really have done a great job of moving the ball, I think in that third quarter, we really kind of held on to it a little bit, kind of stacked it a little bit but got back away from that.  Manu has been awesome, of course.  But Tony and the rest of the guys did a really great job and even Bruce has done a great job, if they are too close, getting on the side of them and making them pay on the inside. 
 
Q.  Would you talk a little bit about that transition, you started off in the Western Conference playoffs trying to stop other teams from running and now you're playing a team where you're the faster team.  How much of an adjustment has it been from series to series?
 
TIM DUNCAN:  It's been a great adjustment, it's been a tough adjustment but it's been great for us.  Because with other teams' personalities, we've kind of built our own, kind of taken a little bit with Denver, we were able to run back at them a little bit.  With Phoenix it was run back at them, Seattle was kind of a bang 'em up series with a lot of shooters.  So we took a little bit from every series and now we can apply it to this one, because a lot of the same is going on.  They have great shooters coming off of screens which we've faced with a couple of teams and with the ability to get stops and push up the floor.  We are going to take what's there.  We don't have to run.  We don't have to be on the open floor to score points.  But we're comfortable doing it, and that's kind of a change in our team this year.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT