NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 28, 2005
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How happy were you with the defensive effort tonight?

TIM DUNCAN:  We were very happy with that.  I think as good as we are we think we can play better.  We had situations - too many layups, those guys are so good, seemed like every time they get an open 3, they knocked it out.  I know we will see that tomorrow in the film session, I want to get it a little bit better.  I love the effort, love what we did, on the glass, give up very few second chance points, just all around pretty good job. 

Q.  Is there anyway with veteran experience on this team, does that help any chance of the Spurs coming out and figuring they have this thing in the bag on Monday?

TIM DUNCAN:  No, I think we understand what we have to do here.  I don't think anyone wants to go back to Phoenix, a lot of respect to Phoenix, I know they are going to come out and give a heck of an effort.  We want to finish this thing here and in the next game.  Everyone of us has that focus.

Q.  Has it been fun running and having that wide open 38 points in the first quarter?  Would you say this is a little bit scary?

TIM DUNCAN:  It is a wee bit scary, a little bit.  As long as we don't fall into it to the point where we're exchanging points back and forth with them, I think we're fine.  I think Popovich will pull the plug real quick on that but first quarter we did a pretty decent job of getting stops and using that as our running opportunities.  So in that respect, we'll continue to run, we'll continue to push.  I think that fourth quarter early on we actually stopped running a little bit and we stopped pushing the ball up and we let them get set and they did a good job on defense there for a couple minutes while we were kind of -- were back on our heals, we want to stay in that mode, continuing to push the ball up, continue to flatten them out and find ways to score in opportunities like that.

Q.  You have been in a lot of situations like this where you try and close a team out.  What is the key -- do you feel that there's a key to closing a team out?

TIM DUNCAN:  Just respect, respect the guys, understand that the effort that they are going to come with and be able to match that effort.  I think we understand this team is a very good team and we have played very well against them, and they are going to do all they can to win this last game here, but we're going to respect them and we're going to come out with the same intensity and game plan like we did for the first three games.

Q.  Free throw shooting, I know you don't like to talk about it may be because you think you are going to jinx yourself --

TIM DUNCAN:  Thank you for bringing it up.

Q.  The reason I do, 15 for 15 is the best you have done --

TIM DUNCAN:  -- ever.

Q.  Yeah.  And Pop said that you have done a little wood shed work on finding the cure.  So what is it that produced this performance?

TIM DUNCAN:  I don't know what it is.  I feel comfortable with my setup.  I feel comfortable with my shot right now.  I am taking my time up there and taking it on my own schedule, and instead of rushing it and want to get off that line and as it works and it continues to work I am going to stick with it. 

Q.  If you win on Monday night you will have between eight and ten days off.  Is that something that enters your mind at all as a positive or negative?

TIM DUNCAN:  Doesn't enter my mind because we want to close them out.  To think about it, it is a long time, really long time, and we have been in situations like that and it can work for you and against you.  There's no way to really know what it's going to do to your team.  You get into a rhythm, you want to kind of continue on with it, so I don't know.  We have got some guys dinged up, is the time good, bad, either way.

Q.  It's a good problem to have?

TIM DUNCAN:  It is a great problem to have. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT