WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2021
Jesse Mueller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Rough way to finish, but decent round overall.  What did you think of it?
JESSE MUELLER:   Yeah, I played pretty well.  Played good enough to get in the 60s today.  Unfortunately I had three three-putts.  That was kind of disappointing, but encouraged that I played pretty well heading into tomorrow.
I have some positives that I can draw on.
Q. Being a local guy, what it like playing in the People's Open?
JESSE MUELLER:   It's a great.  My family, wife, parents, in-laws, all my friends can be out here.  Just a lot of fun.  Obviously a lot different than the last time I played, but still -- I'm just thankful for everyone in my family and friends that are able to come out.  Just a lot fun to play in front of the family.
Q. How many people did you have following you today?
JESSE MUELLER:   I believe about 20.  Yeah.
Q. Including your team?
JESSE MUELLER:   No.  None of the team members today.  Just family, friends, coworkers over at GCU.  A lot of the GCU family.
Q. Any team members going to be able to come out tomorrow?
JESSE MUELLER:   I am not sure.  I'm not sure about that.
Q. Got to go to class anyway.
JESSE MUELLER:   Yeah, that's true.  You right, probably have class anyway.  Didn't think about that.  Might get in trouble there.
Q. You've come to this Open a number of times I'm sure being a native of Phoenix.  What's it like on both sides of ropes between playing it and actually watching?
JESSE MUELLER:   I played -- the first time I played was four years ago.  I played in the U.S. Open before and a couple PGA events, but this one was so much different.  I think I had a little added pressure of all my family, and this time I was definitely more settled down.
It does help that there was not as many fans this time as usual.  I think just settling down, this is my second time around, I'm much more comfortable this time.
Q. The experiences you take about out of today, tomorrow, the practice rounds, what can you take back to your team to teach them?
JESSE MUELLER:   I think I have -- I obviously don't play as much as I used to managing the golf course, so I got to play when I can.  Probably not always trying to find the secret.  There is no secret that can, in my opinion, just automatically turns it around.  It's finding out what's best for you and trying to maximize that.
I would say that.  I played a lot this week and leading up to this week and trying different things, and I just drew back on when I played my best golf and tried to draw from that instead of trying new stuff.
So whatever I have done best before, try to do that as well as I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT