WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2012
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/J. Ferrero
  6‑3, 6‑3, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Juan Carlos Ferrero.   Who would like to ask the first question.   
   
 Q.   Within seven minutes you had your first breakpoint.   Were you encouraged by the fact that you were breaking so quickly?  
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:   No.   I think at the beginning of the matches can happen like this 'cause you are not in the rhythm of the match, starting the tournament.   
Today I take the break very early, but he break me again very fast.   
I didn't expect to break him very early, but sometimes is happen like this.   
   
 Q.   I guess playing Novak you were expecting a tricky match because he's a great player.   Was it the sort of match you anticipated, or was it more tricky?  
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:   Always is difficult to play against one of these guys.   They are the best in the world.   You know, on grass courts I think he likes to play very much.   
Of course, it was my first match on grass this year, so it was very difficult to come here and face Novak in the first round, of course.   
   
 Q.   Could you speak about the atmosphere in the Centre Court.   
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:   Always is special to play in this court; always will be.   That's why it's very different to play in this kind of court.   
   
 Q.   Is there a special feeling playing the very first match on Centre Court with the grass so green?   Was it special?  
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:   Definitely, yes.   I think it's very special to have the honor, you know, to step on the court with the first match and see how the court is, you know, very clean, all green.   
So it was an honor for me and very special to play first match.   
   
 Q.   Are you still enjoying playing your tennis?  
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:   Yeah.   But sometimes of course is difficult to still enjoying the tennis because it's a long way.   
But, yeah, I think I'm still enjoying.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT