U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2009
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/J. FERRERO
  6-3, 6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Good tournament. Gradually, your results are getting better and better, but you ran into a tough opponent today. Can you just talk about that?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Of course it's a great tournament for me, but today, a little bit difficult to beat him serving like this. It's always difficult to playing somebody that all the time that he's a little bit in trouble, he make a usual point with a serve. 
 I think from the baseline we play like the same. I didn't see a lot of difference, because he didn't made a lot of winners from the baseline.
 But I saw a little difference with the serve, because I think it was the big difference today.

 Q. And compare to three years ago when you played, that's really the difference, you'd say, in his game?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I don't want to compare right now. I'm playing really good, and the serve is the same of mine as before.

 Q. No, his serve. 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No, it's a little bit better. Yeah, for sure he's making so much more points with the serve, and he's more regular all the time, making a lot of aces.

 Q. Anything besides the serve today? Were most frustrated by the serve, or was there anything else? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No, I didn't see a lot of more difference. I mean, maybe if I realized the chance that I had with his serve, the break point in the second and in the third maybe we could speak a little bit different from the match. 
 But like this, when you play somebody like this, you feel a lot of pression with your service games. That's how you have to win it, because then it's going to be difficult to break him. 

 Q. Does he hit the ball any differently off the ground because he's so tall? Are his groundstrokes any different? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Not really. Maybe the second set serve the ball is going so high, but this is the only thing that I see.

 Q. You're a Grand Slam champion and a finalist here. Do you like his chances to... 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Federer? 

 Q. No, Del Potro. 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, I think he's playing a level to win a Grand Slam. I mean, I think he can plays against anybody here. I mean, the guys who are in quarterfinals right now. 
 He has to play against Cilic right now. I think this is a chance for him to get into the semis.

 Q. He was 6-4 in the fifth set in the semifinal of the French against Roger. What would you think if they played here? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: What? 

 Q. Wasn't Del Potro in semifinal at the French?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, but I didn't see the match. 

 Q. It was 6-4 in the fifth. It was a very close match. I was just wondering on a hardcourt if he played Roger in the final. 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Every tournament is different, but of course it's going to help him to know that over there it was so close and maybe he has a chance to win. Yeah, sure.

 Q. Has this season been reinvigorating for you as a player? Give you more motivation maybe going into next year?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, of course. Of course it is, but it's been very good season because I feel very good physical again. It's very important thing for me after couple of years that I wasn't feeling 100%. 
 So I want to keep like this in that way, and see what's going on the next year, for sure.

 Q. Any thoughts of retirement in your head in the near future?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Not yet. In the future, yes, but not yet. 

 Q. In the near future?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No.

 Q. No. 25 now. How high would you like to go?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I don't know. I'm not thinking about it right now. 

 Q. Must be very satisfying compared to where it was? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Of course, of course it is. No doubt about it. 

 Q. The main thing is to get into tournaments that you choose now? You can go into any tournaments you like with a ranking of 25, and before you... 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, I'm trying to do that, yes. It's a little bit easier to play like this, because I travel a lot and in a couple of years during the whole season that I have. 
 Yeah, right now I can think a little bit more which tournaments I gonna play now.

 Q. Have you seen any of Rafa's matches?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: See a little bit with Almagro a little bit, and he recovered good from his abdominal. Maybe he has chance to win, for sure.

 Q. He's playing at a good level? Still little inconsistent?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I don't know. Rafa, I think, sometimes depends on the match he's going to play. He can height the level a little bit, so it's difficult to say. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT