adidas International
January 6, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Juan Carlos, please.  
 
 
Q.  In a way, was that a good match for you to get yourself back into the swing of things? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think so.  I think so, because I think is the first match of the year, and I needed some rhythm, you know.  And I think I take it today in this match, because I think we play a lot of rallies in the match, and I think I could play a really good, solid match with not a lot of mistakes, you know?  And I serve good, you know.  I think everything I did good, so I'm really happy.  
 
Q.  What were your thoughts after the first set? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Nothing special.  
 
Q.  Nerves? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Not nervous, no.  I didn't feel nervous, because I try all the time in the first set to come back, you know.  Because also he went one game up, you know, because he start serving.  And in the second set, I had to win, you know, the second set to stay in the match.  I was trying very hard.  And I think I did it in the third set, you know, when the good starting with a break.  I think I take more confidence than him and, you know, I think was the key of the match.  
 
Q.  Were you a bit surprised at the quality of his play?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, because I played against him two years ago in Australian Open in first round and I won in four set.  So in that time I lose one set.  So I think he won in the qualify to Portas and to Squillari.  They are good players.  If he won those match, you know, I thought that he was playing good.  And I think he showed everybody that he's playing good.  
 
Q.  You seem to have had some pretty good battles with Australians lately  - obviously, Lleyton in the Masters Cup as well. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I know.  But, you know, I finish the year playing against Australian, and I start.  It's lucky.  
 
Q.  You finished the year No. 4 in the world. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  What do you think you've got to do to go higher?  How much higher do you think you can go? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think I can go very high, you know.  I have to take the opportunity in those tournament, in Australia, because last year I didn't play it because I was injured.  So I think if I play really good these tournaments, I can go up.  I can go very high.  Because Hewitt defend Sydney and, you know, he lose, I know, first round last year in Australia.  But I think I have the opportunity like him in Australia to go up.  
 
Q.  But, I mean, if we were sitting here, say, in December...
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  December, the end of the year, not the start of the year, and you were looking back, would you be disappointed if you didn't finish higher than you did this year?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Not really.  Not really because last year was difficult for me because I start the year with a lot of injuries, and I couldn't play Australian, important tournament.  So I think I finish 4 in the world, and was important for me because was not easy, the year, for me.  
 
Q.  What in particular do you think you've got to do in your game or with your game to help you move those extra places up? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Playing good in hard court I think is the most important, because we have a lot of tournaments hard court.  And normally I play good in clay court, but I think right now it's normal that I have to play good in hard court also.  
 
Q.  What did you do between the end of the season and the beginning of this one? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Practice.  
 
Q.  Which part of the game did you especially practice?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Nothing special.  I practice hard on my physically, and I practice hard the last two weeks of December - tennis.  So all the years is the same.  
 
Q.  Your Australian record, you haven't done very well on Australian hard courts over the years, have you?  Your Australian hard court results have not been very good.
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I know, I know.  But I played only two times in Australia.  But, you know, I think I'm playing good in hard court because, you know, I did final in Shanghai, was on hard court.  This result give me so much confidence to play on hard court.  So this year I go with a lot of confidence to play Australian Open.  Semifinals in the Masters also, Cincinnati and Sydney also. 
 
Q.  And you played well in Shanghai.
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course.  
 
Q.  So you can play  --?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I can play good hard court, I know.  
 
Q.  Do you think you can play good on any surface if you are  physically fit?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think so.  I think so.  
 
Q.  Does it take a change in your mental approach, or is it a matter of changing the way that you play the game? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I don't think so.  I try to give my same tennis in clay and on hard court.  So maybe hard court you have to do more winners than in clay court.  In clay court maybe you can stay positive in doing no mistakes.  In hard court, you have to be more aggressive.  So is the only difference.  
 
Q.  When did you arrive in Sydney, yesterday morning?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yesterday morning. 
 
Q.  Why did you arrive so late? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Is normal for me.  Normally I go to a tournament like one day or two days.  So this time was enough for me.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT