TMS - MADRID
October 18, 2002
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

Q.  What happened to you today with Agassi?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Nothing special.  He played a great match.  I was quite strong at the beginning.  I was well-prepared, confident.  I lost the second game.  From there, it got complicated.  I tried to play at my best level.  He played very strong, without any unforced errors.  The ball here flies very fast.  Everything went quickly.  I tried to play well, but he played better. 

Q.  Did you feel at a certain point you couldn't do anything?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  From the beginning, I realized that the first game I played well, and it was hard to win it.  So I felt that it was going to be a very tough match, and I would have to play at the top level.  The first game I played very well, but he won that game.  I started to play with more errors.  But he was very precise during the match, very focused.  He made me run a lot.  He had the advantage most of the time.  I tried, but he had it clearly. 

Q.  Feliciano had a good serve yesterday, and that's why his match was long.  Do you agree?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I realized that I may have had to hit too many second serves.  Of course, if I had served better, my first serve would have changed the outcome. 

Q.  Do you feel powerless?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, not powerless.  I played with him in Roland Garros.  I know if I play at my best level, I can win. 

Q.  He was saying in Roland Garros, that's your surface, and this is his surface. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, here both of us ran a lot.  Especially the second set, I ran more.

Q.  What was your impression of the tournament?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Great impression.  Not only from just me, but all the players.  The standard of Masters Series, it's there.  The crowds have been great.  They've been supporting me through the hard moments.  For me, it's been a super tournament. 

Q.  What did you lack in the match?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, to return the ball one more time than my opponent.  Here, all of us, we are very good, it's always very close.  The Spanish participation has been good. 

Q.  Shanghai, do you see it close?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I was doing numbers right now, calculating my position (laughter).  I think I have 450 points right now, and I'm waiting to see what Federer and Novak will do.  But I think it actually depends on myself.  It comes down to me, I think. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT