TMS - MADRID
October 17, 2002
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How did the match change? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, the first set, it was pretty tight.  Either one of us could have won it.  The second game, I could have won it, but then I played with less depth in the first games, and he went ahead.  The first set was decided by a break.  It's like the first set slipped a little bit through my fingers.  But then I started to strike strong from the baseline. 

Q.  What was the key of your win?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I played a meter and a half deeper in the second set, and he couldn't come forward so much.  My forehand was working well. 

Q.  Alex said if he had kept the level of the first set, he maybe could have won the match. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, he played very well in the first set, but I think he took advantage of my short game.  If I would have played deeper, he wouldn't have been so comfortable.  But he has shown that he has a game that can adapt to any kind of surface.  He can play very well. 

Q.  Did you think he was going to be as aggressive in the second set?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I thought he was going to be.  But if he was going to be, he would have taken the initiative in the second set.  In the first set, he didn't let me get it, so I thought he would do the same.  I realized I had to become more aggressive quickly. 

Q.  For Shanghai, how do you feel? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I feel closer to Shanghai.  It's a good opportunity.  Whoever I meet next, I'm getting closer to the Masters Cup.  I think if I keep on playing like this, I will do it.

Q.  What do you think about the crowd, about the atmosphere? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I said this before, the public is very good, since the first day.  They really lift your spirit. 

Q.  Do you prefer to play against Feliciano or Agassi?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  They are different players.  Agassi has a big name.  Beating him would be a very important victory.  But for Spanish tennis, I think it's better if Feliciano wins. 

Q.  Playing against Agassi after Roland Garros, would it have a special flavor?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I would love to play against him on a hard court.  But if Feliciano wins, for Spain it's better.

Q.  Can you describe the two rivals.

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Feli is playing very well, serving very well, being very brave.  He plays from the back of the court, very aggressive.  Even if he's losing, he always attacks.  He's very consistent.  He's level is very high. 

Q.  It's a bit unlucky that you're playing first Corretja and then maybe Feli.  Agassi says he wants to end up No.  1.  Are you intimidated by that?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  Me, too, I want to be the No.  1.  If I could achieve that, it would be fantastic for this year. 

Q.  Do you think, if you keep at this level, you can win the tournament?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, could be, yes.  I'm playing well.  Of course, there are other players who play very well, as well.  I'll try to do my job.  But if I keep on with this level of my second and third set, I could really get there maybe. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT