WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 10, 2002
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  What do you think was the difference today? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think he take away of the  -- he has a very strong forehand and he put all the rhythm all the time with his forehand, you know, moving me all the time.  I couldn't take his rhythm.  You know, I think he hit the ball stronger than me today, and I think was the key of the match.  
 
Q.  Even one break is fatal at this level of tennis.  Would you tell us about the service breaks in each of the two sets?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think one break in hardcourt is enough.  Each set, I think Carlos break me in the first set.  And the second, that's just one break is the match, you know, because the service here in the hardcourt, it's very important.  And I think he serve a little bit stronger than me, like 122, 123 miles, and I serve all the time 118, 117.  So, you know, sometimes you have to serve it stronger maybe.  
 
Q.  He actually came to the net 17 times and he won every one of those points.  Is that something a little different than you usually see?  Was he more active coming to the net than usual?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Him?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, I think he goes to the net more times than ever because I think he hit the ball very strong.  And he has to  -- he had the opportunity to go to the net to finish the point.  That's the reasons.  
 
Q.  His placement seemed to be so precise down the line that you had difficulty reaching some returns.  Was that a little bit of a surprise to you, that you were not able to get to some of those shots? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm not surprise, you know.  I couldn't do it and that's all. Today also I didn't return so good, you know.  I think his second service, I didn't return very good like the other days.  And also was the key because I return very short all the time and he takes his forehand and move me to the other side and take the point.  So I think, you know, he plays better than me in other ways.  
 
Q.  He has said this week that he's playing as well as he did when he was No. 1 three years ago. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I heard. 
 
Q.  When he had his back injury, you saw he wasn't in top form.  Do you think he's as good as ever now?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think he's playing now better than before because - I don't know  - he's better physical and, you know, I think also very important mentally.  He didn't say anything when he did the mistakes and, you know, he says, "Come on," when he does a good point, you know?  And I think that's different than before.  He always said something maybe when he did mistakes, you know?  And right now I think he's with a lot of confidence.  
 
Q.  There's so many different players winning tournaments these days.  Is it going to stay that way for a while?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I hope.  This is good for tennis, you know.  Some weeks is winning maybe Moya tomorrow, or the last week Canas.  Not always Agassi, Sampras, Hewitt.  It's good to take some change in the tennis.  
 
Q.  What kind of strategy did you prepare with your coach?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Like always with Moya, I play with him a lot of times, and we thought that I had to play to his backhand all the time, you know, and to put pressure on to his backhand.  In very important points, of course, to hit the ball for his backhand, you know.  Because if I hit the ball for his forehand, it's very difficult to play with him.  So all the time I have to play to his backhand.  That's all.  
 
Q.  But when you lowered the ball on the forehand side to him, he had difficulty to hit the winner.  When you rise it up, he usually hit the winner. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I know, but, you know... I couldn't play better than I did.  So if I  -- you know, when he hit the ball, it's very stronger to hit the ball like I want to hit, you know, because the ball is coming so fast.  I couldn't hit the ball like I want. 
 
Q.  The double-fault at the end of the match, do you think you got a let call? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't want to say so much.  But for me, I think was good.  I saw the ball in the middle of the line, but sometimes he says "out," he says "good."  
 
Q.  Are you coming to Indianapolis? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  I come back to home ten days.  Maybe I'm gonna take three or four days to relax then come back to practice to go to US Open.  
 
Q.  His forehand, I mean, he's really on top of it right now.  Is his forehand as good as anyone else's? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think when he feels the ball very good, I think he's very good forehand  - and maybe the best.  The fast, for sure.  I don't know if the best, but the fast.  
 
Q.  If it ends up being Lleyton, do you think he can beat Lleyton?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, of course.  Of course.  In clay court, he won always.  On the hardcourt, sometimes he won three sets and two difficult sets for Hewitt.  But who knows?  But I think if he plays at the level of today, maybe he's gonna win.  Because Hewitt, he has a good momentum, but Moya hit the ball very good.   
 
Q.  If you compare the stars Canas and Gonzalez, who has more talent in your opinion?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm not gonna tell you who is the best.  Because if not, I'm gonna lose friend (smiling).  But I don't know.  I think both players hit the ball very well.  They play very good in all the surface, so I don't know.  
 
Q.  Was it tough, another day, playing against a friend today? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Excuse me?  
 
Q.  Is it tough again playing against a friend today? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  It's tough because I lose, but not play with him.  I play with him seven times, so it's easy.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT