WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2002
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  You came back very strong from 5-1 down in the second.  What happened?  What was the problem?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  The problem was I played very bad, I think, during all the match.  Maybe in the third set I improve a little bit.  But I serve very bad all the time.  Without first serve in grass, is difficult to win your serve.  Also he served so strong all the time.  I think he served very well, at the same level all the time.  When he needed to make first serve in, he did it.  I think this give him a lot of confidence all the time.  In the tiebreak, I think I could do more things, you know, with 4-2, 5-4, 5-All.  You know, is difficult to play, but I think I play very bad these two points.

Q.  Did you know anything about him before the match?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I play with him in doubles  -- against him in doubles in Miami.  I knew that he serve very well and also he return very well.  But nothing more special.

Q.  Corretja's win against Sampras gave Spaniards encouragement?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Was Davis Cup, not the tournament.  Davis Cup is different thing than the tournament.  You know, is one match.  You can win grass whenever you want if you play good in grass.  Is not too much difficult to win.  You can win Sampras if you play good and you serve very well, like Corretja that day.  I think Sampras play also a little bit bad the last set, and Corretja, you know, play very well the last set.  Is not difficult. 

Q.  You said you didn't play any tournament on the grass after French.  In hindsight, do you think you could have better feeling of the grass on the tournament?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I didn't have time to play in grass tournaments because after Roland Garros I have to relax some days, and then I have to practice a little bit, than if I go direct to the tournament in the second week.  Is difficult to win some match.  I think it's better to practice one week and then came to here.

Q.  Where did you practice in preparation for Wimbledon?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  In synthetic grass in Spain.

Q.  You didn't get a chance to play on the proper lawn grass before coming?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, not really.

Q.  Are you already over the injury that you had in Roland Garros completely?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, no.  Is completely perfect right now.  I play without tape, so is okay.

Q.  After Roland Garros you said you didn't know why you lost your confidence at the final match.  Have you found any answer to it?  Do you think you could come around and look back?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, no, no.  Is completely different, the confidence in Roland Garros, the confidence in other things.  It's just one match there.  Today was just one match.  Is not the same thing than the confidence.  I don't find the relation of the confidence there and the confidence here and the confidence next week.  Is very different.

Q.  You don't think that final defeat to Costa will affect you in future matches?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, not really.  Maybe in the next days after the final, you know, but not now.  I'm completely with confidence.  I try to give my best all the time.  That's all, I have to play tennis, not anymore.

Q.  Corretja can beat Sampras, it can happen on grass. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course.

Q.  Do you think you have the capacity to have an extended run at this tournament?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course, of course.  When you have more experience on grass, of course you can play better.  Maybe in the next years, I will come do it better here.

Q.  How do you overcome that memory impression on you?  How do you try to change your mindset?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I try to forget, taking some days and do it very different things than tennis.  I try to drive, I try to go to the beach, I try to go to the cinema and forget.  I forget, for sure, the final.  I have to.

Q.  We understood the plan, if you hadn't gone so far in Roland Garros, was for you to prepare for Wimbledon this time potentially at Queen's Club.  Is that something that you may consider in the future, playing a couple or at least one grass court?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes.  If I lose in the first week in Roland Garros, maybe I'm going to play the two tournaments before Wimbledon.  But, you know, you have to understand, if I lose in the semifinals or the final, I don't have time to practice in grass.  I don't have time to go direct to the first tournament.  Of course, maybe in the second tournament.

Q.  Can you comment on Jeff's game a little bit?  Do you think he played a bit above his head today?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Him? 

Q.  Yes. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know, because I don't know him very much.  You know, I think he played very good all the time.  He hit the ball very strong all the time, and he did his volley very good.  You know, I think he play a very good match. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT