TMS MONTE CARLO
April 21, 2002
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Juan Carlos, please. 


Q.  Was the first set the turning point of the match?  Because Moya after that seemed to give up a little.

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course it was very pleasing to win that first set.  It's always very important, and it's always a key point in a match that could have lasted very long, as it could have today.  We both fought a lot.  He took my serve, I took his.  But in the end I was more aggressive, and it was good for me.  It was profitable.  And I was able to win that first set, which was a very good thing for me. 

Q.  Did you feel, after the first set, he went down mentally and physically because of his groin problem or...? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  We never know.  Against Safin, it appeared he would retire early and he finally played a fantastic match.  So you never know what is going to happen.  So I tried to remain at the same level and give it 100%. 

Q.  Juan Carlos, Muster and Bruguera and Moya won this tournament.  How important is this victory for you? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, of course for me it's a very important victory.  I tried to win here two years in a row, and this victory today gives me a lot of trust and confidence in myself.  Here the best players in the world came, except Sampras and Agassi and Kuerten.  I'm very pleased with the level I showed in my tennis during the whole week here. 

Q.  What do you think of the comeback of Kuerten?  He seems to be ready for Roland Garros. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I think it's very good for tennis that he's coming back, and it's also very good for him.  He's coming out of a very difficult situation.  Having a surgery is always a difficult situation for any kind of player.  I wish him the best.  If he plays Mallorca, Rome, Hamburg, it's clear that he will come out as one of the favorites of the French Open, clear-cut. 

Q.  What did you do better this year than the other years here? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  Whatever the preparation, I try the best and either I win or sometimes I lose early, it depends.  I always try to come to a tournament with the best preparation possible.  When I came here, I had played Estoril.  I played more or less well  - not quite at the level I wished.  But in the match against Mantilla, I saved a matchpoint on a volley, and after that I played with a lot of confidence.  I knew for me it was a very important tournament, so now I'm very pleased.  But I didn't do any special preparation for this tournament  - nothing different from the other years. 

Q.  You don't seem to have problems against Spanish guys.  It's not a problem for you to play against them, because you know them very well? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It's clear that on clay against the Spanish guys it's even worse than against a foreigner, because it's going to be a very difficult match every time.  Once I lost against Portas on clay.  But it's a good thing also because I know them very well, on the other hand.  But I know it's going to be a very difficult match.  I believe the Spanish players are the best clay courters in the world. 

Q.  Is it good preparation for you? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, of course.  It's very good preparation for the rest of the season. 

Q.  Physically, do you feel stronger than last year or not?  You look stronger in a way. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I had a lot of time to prepare myself physically.  What I could do was go to the gym.  I could work on the top of my body and my legs, but I had a problem with my knee and my ankle so the only thing I could do was to go to the gym.  Because there, I didn't have to run or move at all.  I started the season a bit late, that's why it was not so good in the beginning. 

Q.  Describe your game compared to the Spanish game.  Is it a classical Spanish game?  Do you try to put something more in your game? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I tried to be myself.  I'm not trying to be a typical Spanish or a typical foreigner.  On hardcourts I try to play as best as possible  - maybe with topspin.  And on clay I try to be aggressive, but I am Spanish. 

Q.  Does this give you some ideas for the French Open, the fact you won here? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, this victory gives me wins.  And I showed here that if I play well I can beat anybody on clay.  If I can win here, maybe I can win the French Open.  The difference is you have only one match that is best-of-five sets here, whereas in the French Open they are all five-setters.  But anyway, I'll try to arrive at the French Open fresh and I'll try my best. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT