TMS MONTE CARLO
April 20, 2002
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  The first set was absolutely amazing.  Then in the second set the same thing happened to you that happened against Novak and Costa  - you started making mistakes, and it was 5-love.  When you went back to the locker rooms, what did you tell yourself?  Did you say you should be cooler, quieter? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I played very well the first set.  He has very good shots, especially his forehand is very good.  So I tried all the time to attack on his backhand, and it worked.  But for the second set I tried to do the same thing, but then I was starting to make mistakes and it was always the same mistakes.  So I was trying his backhand.  But when I attacked his forehand, I was making the mistake.  So in the locker rooms with my coach, we said for the third set I have to play exactly like I did in the first set to win against him.  I had to try to play to his backhand and to be calmer and to play my own game. 

Q.  When you started to play at the end of the second set and you played three minutes, did you agree to play the third set with the rain?  The lines were getting slippery, it was dangerous.  Was there any problem with the referee for you, you didn't want to stay on the court? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I was okay to start playing.  In the beginning it was okay with the rain, but then it started raining really hard.   And then in the beginning it was possible.  But then after that, there was no option; we had to stop. 

Q.  Juan Carlos, you seem to have played yourself into form this week.  You didn't seem to be in that good form at the start of the week.  Is that how you see it?  Can you answer in English, because it's for the radio. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, when I start the week I play at not this level, but I try to play this level.  And I think I play it two matches with Spanish guys, and this give me so much confidence.  Because I played with Portas, I play not a longer match, but with Mantilla I played a longer match.  And I think it give me so much confidence because I play so solid.  And I save one matchpoint down.  And I think these two matches help me a little bit.  So...  And then, you know, I start to play so good.  And right now I am in the final. 

Q.  For the final it will be either Moya or Henman.  It's going to be best-of-five sets.  The court is very heavy, given the weather these days.  Are you wondering about it?  Are you asking yourself questions?  And also it's your third final of a Masters Series.  Are you playing as well as last year, at your best level? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I believe in Rome I was better than I am now.  I was more confident because I was winning tournaments.  I won Estoril, Dubai, Barcelona.  When I came here I was not feeling so good, but it came little by little.  And if the surface is slow and heavy, it will be in my favor if I play Henman because I will have more time.  But if it's Moya, it's going to be very difficult.  The last two times we played each other on clay, we went to three sets and five sets.  The last time was last year, I think.  It's going to be a very difficult final. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT