TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2002
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  What do you think of your level of game at the moment?  It seems to be up and down. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  My level is rather good now.  It's getting better and better as the tournament progresses.  I saved a volley which was matchpoint.  It started badly, but I saved it.  It was really a good shot.  Also, against Rios I was very confident, and I played a very solid match.  It's a good moment for me. 

Q.  Why do you think your game is starting to come together at this particular moment, which is, of course, the best time of the year for it to come together anyway? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course now I'm at my best.  But before, I was injured in my ankle and I couldn't practice and play on hardcourts so I didn't have many matches on this surface.  And before coming in here, I only played a quarterfinal before this tournament.  Now I'm very pleased to be able to reach maybe the finals and maybe become a champion.  I must say I feel more at ease on these type of courts, but you must not forget that I went pretty far in Australia, and in Dubai I did well also.  So it's not only here that I'm playing well. 

Q.  Next time you are going to play either Henman or Johansson.  Are you surprised to find them at this stage of the competition? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I'm going to play with Costa or Grosjean.

Q.  Oh.  Are you surprised to see any one of them at this stage of the competition? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm not surprised to see Grosjean or Costa reaching this stage of the competition because they are very good clay court players, both of them.  Grosjean has the public with him.  And also they have the game to reach a quarterfinal.  And Costa, of course, as you know  - I don't need to say - he's one of the best clay court players we have. 

THE MODERATOR:  Your question was about Henman, though? 


Q.  Yes. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Regarding Henman and Johansson reaching this stage of the competition, I'm a bit surprised, it's true.  But for Henman, we've seen he's improved his game on clay a lot during the past two years.  He plays well from the baseline.  He goes up to the net very often.  I'm a bit surprised, but I saw he's been working a lot on his game on this surface.  He improved.  Of course, then the results come.  As far as Johansson is concerned, I think he's a good player on all surfaces although it costs him a bit more on clay. 

Q.  How close do you think you are to your very best level at this moment? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know how close I am to my best level.  I know I can play better than I am.  But we never know if you're 90% or 100%, it's very difficult to tell.  But I know I'm playing well.  I'm making very few mistakes.  The only thing that I'm still lacking a little bit is serving better.  That's what I still need to improve. 

Q.  What do you think about Carlos Moya in this tournament until now? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  He's a player with many qualities.  His forehand hurts his opponent a lot.  He's very powerful.  Physically, he can stand any kind of situation.  I'm not surprised he's reaching the quarters, and I will not be surprised if he beats Safin.  I think he's playing a very good tournament. 

Q.  Do you believe that Carlos Moya is your main opponent in this tournament? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  He will be my main opponent if we are both playing each other in the finals.  But before that, I have two matches to play.  So for the time being, he's not yet my main opponent.  I have other matches to play. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT