US OPEN
August 28, 2001
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Very scary start to this match.  What happened?  Did you start slowly? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I think we play really good first set.  I just playing the set.  I didn't do winners.  I didn't do aces.  I didn't do nothing.  So, I think I played today not really good match.  I was in the court all the time and I run a lot, but I didn't play so good. So I'm thinking I have to practice a little bit so to try to play better than today.  
 
Q.  In the end, was it your fitness that made the difference? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe, maybe.  He was little bit cramp in the tiebreak in the fourth, and I think was the key for the five set.  Finally I think I was more fresh than him.  
 
Q.  How are you able to stay so fit all the time? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm not really fresh all the time, you know.  I look fresh, but right now I'm really tired and I look fresh.  But, you know, I try all the time to be very good in the court and very fresh.  I take some bananas and something to drink and I try all the time.  
 
Q.  What about Voltchkov? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It's gonna be the first time with him.  (Inaudible.) I think he played with spin, really good serve I think.  Strong serve.  Fast serve. (Inaudible).  I think it's really good.  Is not too fast.  I think is gonna be very good chance for to pass to third round.  I think is gonna be difficult for sure because he won Ferreira and he's in great form right now.  But I think I have some chance.  
 
Q.  As you have developed from a clay court player into an all-court player, do you feel now that you're capable of winning this men's final? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes.  (Smiling.) I feel really good, you know, in hardcourt.  I practice all my life in hardcourt, and right now I have here my residence in Spain my school the same supervise that here in the US Open and I practice two weeks on the road in that supervise.  So I feel right now very good to try to play good tournament.   
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT