WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2001
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Now you've played three matches here at Wimbledon on the grass.  Do you think it's a surface that you can become comfortable with?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I think so.  So I feel so great here in this surface, on grass, with not too much preparation for to play this tournament.  I told you, I feel so great.  Today bad luck, because he plays very, very, very good, no? 

Q.  You had a point to break back in the third set.  Do you think if you managed to get that point, it might have turned the match?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I thought, yeah.  Because 4-All, it's possible happens everything in the match.

Q.  Having seen Greg play as well as that, do you think he has a realistic chance to go on and win the tournament?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think if he plays like this match, maybe he can win the tournament because he has very big serve.  Today when he has breakpoints down, every difficult moment, he serve unbelievable.  He plays also in the base of the line very good.  Today he received very good also.  I think he played a very complete match today. 

Q.  Was it the fact that he played so well from the back of the court, did that surprise you as much as anything about him?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, he surprise me the base of the line.  You know, maybe today I could play better.  But I'm not play bad, you know.  I couldn't play better because he plays very good.  That it. 

Q.  He rushes people, he likes to play the game at a very fast pace.  Did you feel as though you were a little rushed today?  You played quicker than you perhaps would have liked? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Rushed? 

Q.  He plays so fast. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think he plays all the time like with this pressure at the net, with his serve.  He couldn't play like the other things in the court.  I think it's his game.  He can't exit this game. 

Q.  He was tough enough of an opponent to play, but you had some bad line calls, as well?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  I think at some point, only in one point, the smash, like very out.  I said this game is joke only. 

Q.  He now has to play Goran in the next round.  What is going to happen there?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think it's a match with two big serves.  Today Goran, I think he did 40 aces. 

Q.  41. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  In four sets.  Also Greg is serving well also.  So I think it's going great match for the serve, no, for the tennis (laughter). 

Q.  What has been your impression now of the way the new seeding system has worked?  Do you think it's worked?  Has it been a good thing?  Has it made no difference?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, there is a little bit different because if not, I'm not 8 seeded here in Wimbledon.  It give me some chance for to play Wimbledon.  I think it's big things. 

Q.  Of the adjustments you've had to make playing for grass, is there any part of it that sort of you found difficult or maybe given you special aches and pains or anything like that, just moving on the grass?  Is it so different?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Is different, you know, than the clay.  In the clay, you can move it a little bit more faster.  In grass, it's too different and more difficult.  I think it's a bit difficult to play on this surface.

Q.  Just looking back to the French Open, how do you see the match with Gustavo in the semifinals now that you have time to think about it?  Are you disappointed with the way you played against him there?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I don't thinking about the match so many times.  You know, it one month ago.  Right now I'm in Wimbledon.  You know, was very bad matches for me because he play so good and I play so bad.  I think it's all.  But I don't think about this much so many times. 

Q.  Do you feel if you come back to Wimbledon two or three more times, you could go a long way in the championship?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I hope so.  I have very much time for to play good here in Wimbledon.  I'm going to try to play good, to do very, very good here in this tournament. 

Q.  Would it make a big difference to you if there's one more week because you try so hard for Roland Garros? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't think so.  I don't think so. 

Q.  No?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  For example, Gambill prepared one month ago because he lost too quickly in Roland Garros, and he lost here in first round.  I think maybe the luck.  You can play good if you don't have too much preparation and if you have too much preparation you can play bad.  The life and the luck.

Q.  You would prefer three weeks or you would rather it stays two weeks between?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think the next year I'm going to play some tournament before here.  But if not, I'm going to come here like this time. 

Q.  Wimbledon is a very special place for Goran.  Do you still think Greg will beat him? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  I don't know who's going to win.  I think it's special for both because Greg Rusedski is from here.  Ivanisevic, he did some final here.  He's back in the tour.  I think is special for both. 

Q.  Could you ever see a situation in the not-too-distant future that a Spaniard could do a Santana and win here?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe we can, no?  Maybe we can do it.  I don't know.  We don't have special courts in Spain for us to play like Rusedski or other players.  We try to do.  We will try. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT