TMS - HAMBURG
May 15, 2001
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ATP: Questions, please.


Q.  How tired are you after last week, how much did it take out of you?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I feel all right, but last week was very difficult for me.  But today I feel a little bit tired but I think Bruguera plays too solid and with no mistakes and I think today I played a normal match.  In the third I was a little bit tired.  It is normal.

Q.  Was it a mental tiredness or physical tiredness?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Physical, not mental.  Because last week I won a lot of matches until the final.

Q.  Was it tough for you to play against him?   He was a hero a few years ago in Spain, tennis hero.

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Bruguera?  

Q.  Yes.

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It's the second time I play with him, so it is difficult to play with him.  I respect him because he was very great player in clay court and also he played in the Masters and he was No. 7 in the world, but it is a normal player and I can play with him normal.

Q.  Looking ahead to the French Open, which is obviously a major goal next, how difficult is it having played last week?  Is it difficult to arrive there so fresh. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It is difficult to be very good physical preparation in Roland Garros because it is the last tournament in clay court, but I hope to be in great form there because I think it is very important tournament in clay court.

Q.  Is Paris something special for you?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, of course.  I think it is a tournament I like very much, you know, and I think it is best tournament in the world to play.

Q.  Last year was a semifinalist, this year maybe final or win, is it a goal for you?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, it's the goal for me but it is difficult to repeat again, also semifinals because it is very difficult to play great every match, it's long matches, best of five all the matches, but I am going to try. 

Q.  Played a good clay court season -- if it will be an early loss, but at the French Open it's a big disappointment for you?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Repeat the question.  (Translated  for Juan Carlos).  A little bit, you know, when you lose in the first round in Roland Garros it is always disappointing but it is possible because everybody want to play very good in Roland Garros, so it is difficult to win every match there.

Q.  Having beaten Kuerten last week, is there anybody now that you fear on clay or do you feel you can beat anybody on a good day on clay?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I feel good with anybody.  I can play with anybody right now on clay court because I am with a lot of confidence and I am playing good and I think I can play with anybody.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT