ROGERS CUP
August 12, 2009
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. FERRERO/G. Monfils
  6-3, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What are you thinking going into the third match against Murray in like two months?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Well, that's means that I'm playing well. I'm here in the third round against Murray. I know it's going to be very tough but, you know, it means to me that I play good tennis. I play the way that I want it. 
 Tomorrow I know it's going to be very tough. He's No. 3 in the world, so I know he's very experienced man in these kind of matches so, you know, I learned some things at the match at Wimbledon, so I will try to get better in the next one.

 Q. You know that if you beat Murray and Rafa starts to win, then you've kept Rafa, helped him to stay on No. 2 in the rankings. Do you know that?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Well, no, I didn't know, but I think I have to think in my way. 
 I mean, Rafa, for sure he's going to try to give his best, his very high. I don't know. What can I say? 

 Q. You've been playing very well the last few months and you're climbing back. You seem to be on a bit of a roll. What are you doing well these days?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Playing tennis. (laughter.)
 I mean, I was working very hard in the last couple of months, and I was trying to think that if I win some matches, some important matches, I can get other times the confidence that I needed to play that level. 
 I think I did it well in Wimbledon, and Roland Garros I played very well against Kohlschreiber, also. This match helped me a little bit to know that I can play very well these kind of matches.
 After Wimbledon for sure I get a lot of confidence. I beat two top 10s in the tournament, so right now I'm in good shape and a lot of confidence. I'm playing very regular all the time, the same level all the time, so it's the way I want it to keep.

 Q. Did you find it strange that you had to go through qualifying to get here when you're ranked so high now?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, of course it's very strange to play quallies when your ranking is like 28, but I knew that I have to play so I couldn't think in another things. 

 Q. Were you disappointed -- I believe you asked for a wildcard two times, right? Were you disappointed with that?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No, not really, because I know that it's almost impossible to get it here, because there is a lot of guys here that they need it, so I know how it works like this.

 Q. But if you don't ask, you'll never get, right? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, I know, but -- you know, I have the tournament in Valencia. I know how tough it is to ask a wildcard. So I know it. 

 Q. What's the biggest reason for maybe the last year of your career being such a struggle beyond injuries and... 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Injuries.

 Q. Is that just it?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, yeah. 
 You know, when you get injured a lot, you go to the court and you go with no confidence because you're injured a lot and you're more worried about the injury you're going to have, but that's tennis. So it's quite tough to play like this.

 Q. Do the injuries linger or are you fit?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No, I'm fit. I'm 100% right now. After the injury that I have in Buenos Aires this year in February, I had no more injuries; important, I mean, that I have to retire to any match. So I am in good shape right now.

 Q. Were you worried about your career? Because you're not 22 anymore. Were you concerned that things were... 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No, no, no, no. Not really.

 Q. Have people been asking you, Where have you been? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Sometimes. I've been here. I didn't go anywhere. 

 Q. Do you have any goal in mind, top 10 or... 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Top 15. I would say top 15. Get into the top 10, it's a little bit far from points, so -- yeah, of course, if I do some finals in Masters Series or a great result again in the Grand Slam that we have left, I can hit it, but we'll see. My goal for the moment is to try to get to 15, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT