TMS - HAMBURG
May 13, 2001
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  You're behind two sets to one, what was your state of mind then?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: It was very difficult to win three set.  When, you know, he start very strong, I said inside me, "Don't worry because I have time today and in the next set." So in the first set I could to break him some games, and finally I lost the set, and finally I could to win in five sets. 


Q.  You weren't worried when you were behind two sets to one?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No, no, not worried.  It's difficult to win Guga, and I'm worry only in three set. 


Q.  You've won tournaments before, but this is the biggest one you've won.  Does winning something this big give you confidence to go forward and win something that's even bigger in Paris in a couple of weeks' time?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: But also Barcelona give me a lot of confidence because I play with Spanish players, some very strong players.  And here, you know, is the first time I win the Masters Series, and I am really very happy for that.  But I think this tournament is giving more confidence to race to go to the Roland Garros. 


Q.  Did you realize that he was tired at the end of the fourth set, and did you think that last year you were in front two sets to one and you lost, and this year exactly the opposite, or no?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I didn't think about the last match against Guga, you know, because I am  -- I was in this final and I am really want to win this match and only I think when I was in the match to win this tournament and this match.  So I didn't think about the match against Guga at Roland Garros. 


Q.  You and Guga should be seeded one and two at the French, and the Spanish players are protesting about the seedings at Wimbledon.  Don't you think the Spanish players should protest to have a better seeding at the French?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Maybe yes, but I don't think we gonna do because in Roland Garros the seeds is normal.  You know, Wimbledon it happen that situation, and I think it's no gonna happen in Roland Garros.


Q.  You may play Guga in the quarters, like in Hamburg?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yes.  Maybe. 


Q.  You have two coaches here, Antonio Martinez and Samuel Lopez.  How do you work it when there is a physical coach or...?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No, no, no.  I have  -- normally it's come with me Antonio, normally is the first coach.  But this week is coming Samuel Lopez because Antonio has to do something else in Spain.  And some weeks is gonna travel with me someone, so it's to coach and not physical trainer, only to coach. 


Q.  When was the last time that you found yourself 5-1 down on clay in a previous match?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I can't say I remember if that ever happened to me on clay.  It's true he started off very strong, very well, and then I managed to come back a few games and sort of shorten the distance between us.  But in the end he managed to take the set. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT