TMS - HAMBURG
May 12, 2001
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  English questions, please. 


Q.  Juan Carlos, Nicolas just said that in rallies against you he doesn't even have time to take a breath because you're so quick.  Do you feel as though your speed around the court has improved dramatically in the last few months perhaps?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, I think so is improve because I have more physical preparation, so I can do it like this speed.  So if he said that, I am happy  -- I happy for that because Lapentti is one of the great players on clay court and one of the great players in the base of the line in clay court as well.  So if he said that, I think it's really...


Q.  It would appear that it's going to be Guga in the final, and most of us feel that you and Gustavo are the two best clay court players at the moment.  How do you view the matchup?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: First of all, I think he had to finish, no? He has to finish.  And then I think Kuerten is playing so well and very strong of his both forehand and backhand, and maybe tomorrow is gonna be a difficult match and tough for the both players. So I want to play with him.  And I think Vinciguerra is going to play better in the second set though, because Vinciguerra is a great player and I think he doesn't want to lose too easy. 


Q.  Obviously these Masters Series tournaments are very important, but the main aim at this time of year is Roland Garros.  How important is it not to get your form to peak too early, and how important is it to maintain your physical condition through this very telling time?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yes, you know, Roland Garros is the last tournament on clay court, and everybody right there is a little bit tired because there is so many tournaments before Roland Garros.  So but I think if I play good Rome, it's great for me.  Then I gonna play  -- then I play bad in Roland Garros, don't worry because I play very good in Rome and it's a Masters Series, it's important tournament also.  But everybody knows that Roland Garros is the more important tournament in clay court.  I hope to arrive there in great form. 


Q.  You made the semifinals in Paris last year.  How much do you think you've improved in your own game over the past year?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I said yesterday I think I improve in my physical preparation, and I can play more time on the same level.  I think is more important for to play good in clay court, because there is too long matches in clay court, the best-of-five sets.  Or tomorrow is best-of-five sets and it's important to arrive very good physical because it's too long a match. 


Q.  In comparison with the last time you played against Gustavo, what kind of tactics are you going to use? Is it going to be the same or similar sort of game as last time, and what do you think about the match?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  (Through translation.) We played in five sets last time and he took the first easily, and then I gave him a hard time in the fourth at 3 -1.  However, he took the match in the fifth set.  If I am playing him tomorrow, it is going to be difficult or tough for both of us.


Q.  Obviously at this time of year all the focus is on Paris, and quite rightly.  I noticed yesterday you mentioned Nottingham on the grass before Wimbledon.  I'm just mentioning whether it a mistake?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: What is grass court?


Q.  Is it accurate or not? Are you playing Nottingham?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yes, I gonna play Nottingham, but I think it's my second time in grass court so I don't know how I can to play because I don't have preparation on grass court and is gonna be the second match of my life.


Q.  What was your first one like?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Last year in Halle against Gustafsson.  I had two set points, I am very happy.  (Laughter.)


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT