US OPEN
September 3, 2000
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Juan Carlos. 


Q.  You've known Marat a long time, go back to when you were juniors in Valencia.  Today he leaves all of his clothes home, so he has to borrow clothes from Nicolas Kiefer after a rain delay.  Has he always been like this, a little forgetful, not quite organized all the time?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, you know, when was rain in the tiebreak and in the match, I think the tiebreak, no, because, you know, is difficult to begin to play against Federer because he serve so good.  After I think is have a little bit luck, you know, with luck in the tiebreak.  I think the tiebreak, it's a little bit luck.  I think was so difficult match because he serve so good all the time, and it's difficult to break his serve, no, in the match.  I'm really happy for this match.

Q.  I didn't make this question clear.  I was talking about Marat. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Oh, Marat. 

Q.  He left his extra socks and shorts at the hotel.  During the rain delay, he wanted to change clothes. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  For Marat? 

Q.  He got them from Nicolas Kiefer.  You've known him for many years. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, I know.

Q.  Was he always disorganized like this when he was young?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think Marat, all his life, this type.  I think Marat a little bit craziness.  But he always play the same level, no, 5-4 in the tiebreak or 1-0 in the first set.  He think he must concentrate in his tennis right now.  I think more organized in his life. 

Q.  Were you happy when the rain came so you could get some rest?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, always when it's raining, you must to be in the locker room.  You don't know what can you do.  It's no great days for the tennis when is rain.

Q.  In the third set, you looked kind of tired. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, no, nothing.  I'm really feel so good all the match.  The fourth set and in the third set when come the rain, I'm good.  When I come back to the court, I feel more relaxed, more strength.

Q.  You had a great season on the clay.  Do you feel as though you're just as comfortable and just as confident on the hard courts as you are on clay?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, maybe, no.  I like to play hard court.  Sometimes I win some matches in hard court, no, in Dubai and Scottsdale.  I like to play hard court all my life because when I was young, I play so many times in hard court.  Now I feel so good on this hard court, no, because it's not too fast, and I can to play my tennis, no, in this court.  In Australia, it's more fast.  It's a little bit more difficult to play in Australia this year.  I think the next year is more or less fast, no. 

Q.  This year you've played Marat twice.  You each won one match on clay.  Who should be the favorite in the next match?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think normally a little bit him, no, because he plays a little bit better in hard court than in clay court.  But nobody knows who won, who come to win this match, no, because Marat and me, we are 20 years old.  We don't have so many experience in the Grand Slams, you know.  I don't know what's happening in this match, no, because I'm playing good, and I think he's playing good.  I think it's possible everything.

Q.  Is it realistic for a player as young as you and a player as young as Safin to make the final or win a major tournament like this or is it too early?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe is too early, no, to do the final here on some Grand Slam.  Marat won the Toronto.  He has so many potential in the tennis, no?  I think it's too early for me and for him.  But it's possible.  Nobody really knows.  Maybe I like to do, but I think him is the same.

Q.  Roger mentioned several times your spin, the way you play the ball.  He usually doesn't mention that with everybody.  What is so special about your spin?  Is it a real good weapon on hard court?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think it's good for hard court, no, because it's going to take topspin, no.  What is it (indicating)? 

Q.  Bounce. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes.  It's going to go more up.  I think Alex Corretja and Carlos Moya is play with the same topspin.  Maybe Alex, it's a little bit more than Carlos and me.  I think it's also good on the hard court and the clay.  Always the topspin is good for everything.  I think for Wimbledon, it's not so good.

Q.  In this match today, you got a terrible call.  The ball was clearly out. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah. 

Q.  You didn't get too angry about it. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.

Q.  Marat maybe would have broken a racquet or two.  Is that just your temperament?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, just my temperament.  All my life I was this form.  I think is good for me.  Is going to take positive on the court.  I can to thinking about the next point.  If I broke the racquet, I'm going to take angry.  It's not good for me, no.  Maybe good for Marat because he's happy after broke the racquet, no, but good for me.

Q.  Are you the same in your private life, more quiet?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, yeah.  I try.  I try. 

Q.  How long have you known Marat?  What is your background together in terms of junior tennis?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, he went to go to Valencia in 14 years old.  I know him from this 14 years old.  I think it's six years, 14 to 20.  I think it's a good friend for me because he has the same physical training in Valencia than me.  I go so many times to Valencia for practice with him when we stayed there.  I think is a good friend for me because I know him so much time. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT