US OPEN
August 29, 2000
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Juan Carlos. 


Q.  You're in the grinder section of the draw.  You get Meligeni next, Gumy next, Federer, Grosjean after that.  Is this going to possibly grind you down before you get to the Round of 16, if you make it that far?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, maybe it's possible.  In the first round, Meligeni is a hard player because he all the time go run to the court.  He has a good forehand.  Well, Gumy the next, he's hard player also, no?  It's a big man, a big player.  He takes a good physical, no?  But the last time I won this match against Gumy on clay court one year ago.  I think in hard court, it's maybe possible a difficult match, but I think I have a chance, no, because it's a good draw.  Maybe Grosjean or Federer, it's a good players.  It's the same with me.  But it's a good side of the draw.

Q.  What do you think of your adjustment to hard courts after playing on clay?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I like.  I like playing on hard court, no, I say all my life.  When I was young in my city, in Valencia, there isn't a clay court where I practice.  I practice about four years in hard courts, so I like to play in hard court than the same of clay maybe.

Q.  Is that why your strokes are a little flatter than most of the Spanish players?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe.  But Corretja play good on hard court also because he won the master, Washington.  I think the Spanish players, it's going to improve in hard court. 

Q.  Can you talk about the year that you've had?  You really shot up in the ATP ranking.  Has it been a great year for you?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  The last year was be a great year for me, no, because I become the 345, and I finish the year 45.  I think it's work, it's a job.  I think when I play so much matches, I won all the matches in the first three months.  I think it's so important because I was 345, and in three months I was 120.  I think it's so important to take confidence and for take experience after the year.  I think it's important. 

Q.  Did you make any changes?  What accounts for this quick rise? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, some change in my life, the money, my family.  It's possible I'm going to play this tournament, a big tournament, a great tournament.  Before I play Satellites and Futures.  I can't play in the cities, in New  York, all the world.  I think it's improving my life.

Q.  What about in your game itself?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Actually I play all the time in the same level.  I think the last year I had a less physical, you know .  I think it's so important this year.  I'm more big.  I can to play more in the court.  I think it's important.  I try to play all the time the same level.

Q.  What about being a part of the "New Balls" campaign?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think it's so important for me and for the other players, no, because the "New Balls Please" give us (inaudible).  It's so important for players.

Q.  Do you find that you're being recognized more now?  I take it in Spain you're pretty well-known.  Are you being recognized more because of that campaign?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think it's the campaign is finished already, no?  I think in two or three months it's going to know in Spain. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT