AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 12, 2009
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. FERRERO/S. Darcis
  4-6, 6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Good match for you? Just tell us how you feel.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, of course. It was very great one for me. At the beginning it was a little bit tough because, you know, I didn't lose a set in the whole tournament, and losing the first set for me was a little bit shock. But, you know, I was trying to give my best.   
 Also in the second set I tried to be more, very aggressive in the second set and the third, and I think I made -- I think it was one of the keys to win the match.  
  
  Q. You obviously are feeling comfortable out there. What do you put your transition improvement on grass, what would you put that down to?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Always very difficult to play on grass the first matches, but after three matches playing here, I feel very well on the court right now. I think I'm serving very well, and with my backhand I can hit the ball very strong.  
 I'm moving well. That is the most difficult thing on grass, you know. Try to move well on grass is very difficult.  
  
  Q. This is your first semifinal on grass.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah.  
  
  Q. I mean, presumably that's more than you expected coming here this week. How do you feel about that?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Well, you always expect to make a great result. Anyway, on grass it's very difficult. Like I say, the first matches, you never know what's going to happen.   
 Anyway, after the first two matches I felt very well on the court, and I believe that I could make good results with the first semifinals for me. Of course, I don't want to stop right now with good feeling to try to win the tournament.  
  
  Q. How much confidence does this give you ahead of Wimbledon?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: A lot. You know, a lot.   
 Always to make a great result gives you a lot of confidence. Here on grass courts a little bit more, because it's not a surface that I will play on whole year.  
 Also, for Wimbledon, it's, you know, give me a lot of confidence to go there and see that I had a good feeling.  
  
  Q. Andy is on court now. If he does win, you'll play him. What are your thoughts on playing Andy on grass?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I mean, I never play against him on any surface on the tour. So play here in his country on grass, everything is difficult. But anyway, like I said, I feeling great, and I just want to be focused on me and on my game, be aggressive and try to enjoy.   
 I know that Andy, he's playing amazing. He's having great results in whole last year and also this year. He's No. 3 in the world, so always going to be tough to beat him.  
  
  Q. As a former No. 1, do you think he has what it takes to become a No. 1?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I think so. He has great talent. You know, he likes to be in the difficult moments, I think.   
 You know, he's very young, as well. He has a lot of future to try to get No. 1.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT