CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2011
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. FERRERO/M. Granollers
  6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. This is the fifth time you beat Marcel. Would you like to comment on the match and your opponent as well?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Marcel is very good friend of mine, so always is not nice to beat him or another player.   
 His style to me is good. I mean, I like to play against him so every time that I played a match against him, I felt very well on the court. So maybe that's why I beat him all the times.   
  
  Q. We see several Spanish national flags in the stadium, and most of them are your fans. What would you say to your Chinese fans?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I'm feeling very great every time I come to Asia. I know that I have a lot fans here supporting me all the time, so for me it's amazing to come here very far, far away from home and feel like at home.  
 I went out on the court and I saw all the flags and all the people say my name, supporting me, so I'm very thankful for that. Of course keep like that.   
  
  Q. Next round should be or could be against Tsonga. What do you think of his game? He's also in the competition for the end-of-year tournament. Comment on that. You've been in the position to compete for that tournament.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I think he's a great player. He's in a good shape. He's been playing very well tennis most of the season on the hard courts, and of course he's one of the favorites to win the tournament.  
 He's No. 1 seeded, so if I play against him going to be very tough for me because hard court is his favorite surface maybe. His serve is big, forehand is big, so Tsonga is always a very tough player to beat.  
 But it's going to be a nice match for me. It's long time that I didn't play against him. Last time it was Monte-Carlo I think. He beat me on hard court and I beat him on clay court. It will be another challenge for me.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) You are a very great player on the ATP Tour, and nowadays on the court there are so many Spanish young players. What sort of suggestion would you like to give to those young Spanish players? Second question: Next week will you go to Shanghai to play the Shanghai Masters?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Advice to them, it's keep working very hard. I mean, if they are young, they have to fight for to be in the top 10 or top 20.   
 I mean, tennis is very complicated, and there is no other solution than work very hard. No more things.  
 And about Shanghai, yeah, of course I'll go to Shanghai to play next week.   
  
  Q. Third question: The tennis academy, how is that working?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: It's working very well. I mean, we have it since long time ago, and we have a very good group over there working very well. We have also a lot of guys most of the summer.  
 But, you know, it's very nice to practice there, yeah.   
  
  Q. There was a part of the question regarding the end-of-the-year tournament, the ATP Tour World Finals. You've been in this situation when the guys are counting points and everything. How do you think these guys are feeling now, the ones that are still fighting for it?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: The same as you think: excited, nervous. They want to win points to make maybe the most important tournament on the year.   
 So they will fight with everything for it, yeah.   
  
  Q. Can it be damaging to their game or mind?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, sometimes. I mean, Simon, he didn't play very well here and maybe he needs to play. But sometimes it's very damage, but sometimes it helps to get you very motivated.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) In this year's China Open, after first round the seeds have all gone out. How would you comment on such a situation?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Can you repeat?   
  
  Q. After the first round, the top seeds were almost all gone. How would you comment on that situation?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I mean, can happen. Tennis is very difficult, and it's not for sure that the top seed, they going to win. The other players are good, too. The only difference is ranking. So they have to play and they have to win.   
 As I said, it's not always the principal thing that they going to win.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT