INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 7, 2008
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. FERRERO/R. Nadal  
7-5, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You looked very happy at the end the match. Can you tell us what you felt and when it meant for you?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: At first I felt really happy because, you know, I played a really good match. I played very well the whole match.   
 After I was very happy because I beat the best in clay court. You know, I was also happy because I never beat him -- I never won a set against him on clay court, so after the match I think for all this reason that I said I was pretty happy, of course.   
  
  Q. The fact that Rafa was injured - he complained about the foot injury at the press conference here - what does that take away from your win? Do you feel it takes a little bit of shine away from your win?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Could be, could be. But I also had injury in my abductor from yesterday. I couldn't move 100% also. And you know when you go to the court and you decide to play, I think the injury is not reason to say yes or no.   
 I think, you know, he play as -- I think -- as good as he can with the injury and everything.   
 You know, at the end I play a little bit better than him. I think. I think. I don't know if it was big reason to don't play at his best level, the injury.   
  
  Q. Since when did you feel as good as that? Yesterday? Mentally, I mean, after a match.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Well, of course it's very important win for me and I felt special -- I feel special right now. It's true that I didn't have, you know, this special feelings since long time ago. I don't remember, but maybe this year I played the final Auckland, and I was pretty happy when I won the semifinal.   
 But of course, it's a little bit different here because I won a special match, of course.   
  
  Q. Do you feel it can change something for you mentally that you beat Rafa? You were the best on clay and he was also.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No.  
  
  Q. In your mind?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I change some things, of course, but also because I play against him in Monte-Carlo and, you know, it was 6-4, 6-1. But I think it is very close match because we play almost all games deuce/advantage all the time.   
 So, you know, I change little things, but not too much. I tried to be a little bit more aggressive and try to finish the point better than the other day. Because the other day maybe my mistake was not to finish as good as today the points at the end of the point, you know?   
  
  Q. What are the feelings before the match when you're playing Rafa who has one 100 matches on clay and you never won a set on clay. What are your feelings when you go into such a match?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: The feelings, as I said, try to play a little bit better than I did before. Because we played in Monte-Carlo, and also, of course, you try to go to the court and give your best because you don't have reason to be with a lot of pression because he's important on the court right now because he has the record and he has everything.   
 So I was trying to play at the same level that I was playing on clay courts before, and I think mentally I was so, so strong today. I had things very clear in my mind, and I got through it, you know, and I did it.   
  
  Q. Your abductor, does it feel good or okay for the rest of the tournament?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I feel okay. Last week I pull out from Barcelona because of this, and in the match of Kiefer I feel it again. You know, today I put a bandage on so it's good and I play good. I could move well.  
  
  Q. Wawrinka just won. What are your feelings for him?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Last time I played against him was in Vienna in indoor. I never play against him in clay court, so I have to go to the court and try to play same level as I'm playing.   
 So I'm going to try to think of myself and not him. Of course, he's playing good because he make semifinal last week and he's playing good clay court.   
  
  Q. Now that the draw is very open I think, how do you rate your chances to be maybe in the final?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: It's open, but it's a lot of big names. I think I have to think now of Wawrinka and not more, because all matches are different and all matches are difficult. So I think Wawrinka is a big player, and tonight I'm going to think of Wawrinka and that's it.   
  
  Q. How much do you think this loss and the injury is going to affect Nadal's preparation for Roland Garros?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I don't know. Maybe you have to ask him. I don't think he's going to change a lot, because, you know, it's one week that he lost and he will try again to play his level in Hamburg.   
 He has a lot of time to prepare for Roland Garros, so I don't think this lose is going to change a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT