AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2008
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  When was the last time you played so well?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I came playing this well since -- you know, last year at the end I play good matches.  You know, last week in Auckland I played also I think a good level.   
 But, you know, anyway, I'm improving.  When you play matches against like the top players like today, you know, you want to make your best.  And I think I did it very well.   
  
  Q.  What did you like about your game today?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  My serve, and also I think I reach all the opportunities that he gave me, breakpoints and set points.  I play very aggressive all the time and I didn't miss it.   
 You know, it's completely happy about it.   
  
  Q.  Do you think last year's winning one set against Federer at Wimbledon was a turning point for you?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, no, no, no.  No, I had a lot of battles against Federer.  I won sometimes and I lose more times than I win.   
 But, anyway, you know, that match was special to play in Wimbledon against him and I won a set.  But I play good, so was one more match for me.   
  
  Q.  Domachowska has won and will play Venus Williams.  Are you voting for her?  Do you give her any advice?  Is it nice for you to see her doing well?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course, it's very nice to see her winning because she was practicing at my academy.  I know her very well.  So I'm really happy because she's winning.  Last year, she miss a lot in the rankings, so she's coming back.   
  
  Q.  When was the last time you played that well?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm playing good tennis since, I don't know, two months, something like this.  I practice so hard in December.  Last week I played good.  At the end of the last year I played good matches against top players.  I came playing well.   
 But also the final of last week give me a lot of confidence to came here and try to play at the same level.  I think I'm doing like this.   
  
  Q.  Did you change anything over your break that you normally have?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Not really.  Not really.  I was trying the same.  But maybe I was trying to be as aggressive as I was before when I was No. 1 or reaching my best results.   
 So right now I'm trying to go to the court and be very aggressive all the time, be more aggressive than maybe the other guy.  So that is giving me good results.   
  
  Q.  Did you watch Roger Federer last night?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  A little bit, yeah.   
  
  Q.  What did you make of that?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, I think Tipsarevic, he reach amazing level.  He played really good.  And Federer maybe, you know, he was a little bit surprised when maybe he was two sets to one down.  So he realized that he has to win in the fifth if he wants to win.   
 So, you know, he didn't play I think his best.  But, anyway, he won.   
  
  Q.  What about your next match against your compatriot?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It's going to be a special match.  We know each other.  We live in the same place.  So we practice a lot of times together.  We are so good friends.  So tomorrow is going to be very special.  You know, we'll see what's happen.   
  
  Q.  Is he one of the fittest players around?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, of course, it is.  He's playing so good tennis.  He's so fit.  He likes to play like this.  He's with a lot of confidence since last year.  He reach the final in Masters.  It's going to be tough.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT