WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 15, 2007
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about to how nerve-wracking it gets when you have so many match points and they go by?  Does it put pressure in your mind or do you just try to work on the next point?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You have to try to think in the next point, of course.  When you lose attempts to win the match of course you think a little bit too much, but in these kind of moments you have to think in the next point and be focus in the next point.  No more.   
  
  Q.  You served really well today.  How do you feel?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah.  One of the key of the match I think I served really well in important moment.  A few aces at important moments like 7-7 in the tiebreak.  And also one of the important keys today was I think return.  I return really good his serve and I put all the balls in.  I play a really solid match.   
  
  Q.  Before you won you had those two really close calls in the tiebreaker.  I was watching from up above and my view of was partially blocked by the tent sort of thing.  Could you describe those points, the one where you went over the chair?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, match point.  It was very important point for me.  The return, somebody tell me here that the ball was good and somebody is telling me that the ball was out.   
 So from my position I saw the ball good, and you know, it was important match and I have to say something.  I couldn't keep it inside.  And then the other point also was a little bit the same.  You can't do anything without the challenge.   
  
  Q.  How much do you think it shows the difference between playing on Center Court and playing on Grandstand in a circumstance like that?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course it's a big difference, because in these moments you can ask for a challenge and decide to repeat the point or not.  So of course it's a big difference.  It's important difference.   
  
  Q.  You've played well here even going back to 2005.  You played Roddick that year in the second round that year and played a really good match.  Then last year making the final.  You feel good on those courts?  What is about here?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah.  I feel good on these courts, and also the warm conditions that we have here.  I feel great.  So it's, you know, important tournament for me because I defend the final of last year.  And also I play two semifinals here, so of course I feel good.  I don't know why, but I feel comfortable here.   
  
  Q.  At this point in your career do you feel like you're almost a better player on hard and grass than on clay?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Almost.  Almost, almost.  I like to play on all kind of surface, but I feel pretty good on grass as well and I feel pretty good here on fast courts.   
 And in clay you have to fight so much more and, you know, I start to feel a little bit better on these kind of courts than clay.   
  
  Q.  Are you sponsored by Prince anymore?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  It's Prince racquet but I'm not sponsored by them for the moment.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT