WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2007
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Juan Carlos.  Who would like to ask the first question?   
  
  Q.  How did you feel today?  Must have thought you were in with a pretty good chance after that second set.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, you know, today was all the time very difficult to hit the ball, you know, nicely like the other days.   
 During the third set I start to, you know, not feel the ball as nice as I was feeling the first two sets.  You know, I couldn't make any point in the third.   
 But then at the fourth, I try it again.  I did a lot of (indiscernible) but the little chances with two breakpoints in the third game, and I couldn't make it.  Was difficult to break his serve.   
  
  Q.  The conditions with the wind, do you feel had it been a calmer day you could have given more of a challenge?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, I knew before to play him that always is very difficult to beat him in any conditions.  But today, you know, the worst conditions to feel the ball good, try to hit the ball strong all the time.   
 Today was almost impossible to hit the ball three times nice.  Was very difficult to play out there.   
  
  Q.  You must be very happy you're the first guy to take a set off him.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, you know.  Happy to have a set against him?  No, no.  I was trying to win the match, not to win a set.  I think is the important thing playing against him.  I don't care if I am on grass or hard court or clay court, I try to win the match, not to win a set.   
  
  Q.  Do you think someone can stop him this year?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  If he played the way he used to play in semifinals or final or during the whole tournament, I think is very difficult that he lose.   
 But, anyway, Rafa right now is playing very good.  I think he improve a little bit since the last two matches because at the beginning was a little bit worse than now.  Who knows.  I don't know.   
  
  Q.  Do you think Rafa is the biggest danger?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, Djokovic just won, but I think he's going to be a little bit tired tomorrow.  I think Rafa can have his chance to win tomorrow, try to be ready in the final.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT