MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO
April 21, 2007
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  One point away from 4-1 Roger seemed to (indiscernible).  The match seemed to change after that.  Was that also your perception? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, it was a big change.  That ball was very important to me to win it because it was 4-1 and to serve, and I think the history of the first set maybe it turns a little bit. 
 After this, he start to play more aggressive and he won like seven points in the row very easy hitting the ball so hard, and I couldn't have the chance to fight. 
 Sometimes with him, you know, you have the feeling that you are so bad because when he start to play amazing it's really difficult to follow his rhythm of the game. 
 But that ball was very important I think for the first set.  I mean, it's not the history of the whole match, but it was very important. 

 Q.  Did it affect you? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  No, it doesn't affect me, of course not.  Because I was playing good tennis.  I was trying to hit the ball to his backhand with a little bit of high, you know, and I think I was doing very well. 
 After this, I think I played two games a little bit shorter than I was and he started to hit the ball stronger than he did. 

 Q.  What sort of history do you have from the other side of the net when you are playing Federer?  Sometimes you want to clap, you go like this (dropped jaw.) 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, not like this.  Of course not.  You have the feeling that have to do very good all things to win the match.  You don't have to do easy mistakes. 
 You have to be very good mentally, so you have to make complete match to win against these guys.  You don't have the feeling like this (jaw dropping), but always you have the feeling that you have to play very, very good to win. 

 Q.  You get the feeling that even if you play your best it's not enough sometimes? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well -- 

 Q.  You know, because he is playing so incredible? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Sometimes yes.  Sometimes when you apply your high level he still win, but maybe because he's the best. 

 Q.  You haven't played him for pretty long time now.  Do you see some differences in his game or attitude? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Not in his game, but very important thing is mentally when he was young he was a little bit, you know, crazy.  But now I think he's so good and it's very important mentally in tennis. 

 Q.  Maybe he plays closer to the net today because he mix it up.  You that have feeling? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, he tries to make the points shorter.  I think because when we play a lot of rallies at the beginning I think I won some of them, more than I lost.  So I think he tried to make the points shorter coming to the net. 

 Q.  Were you annoyed by the noise, because Roger seemed to be annoyed? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah.  There was a lot of noise, but this was what we had, so I couldn't change anything. 

 Q.  Didn't bother you then? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Not a lot.  I have enough to have in front with Federer to think of other ones. 

 Q.  What this tournament and this match too means for you?  You are coming back?  You are mentally better? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It means I'm in a good way to play the clay court season.  I play really good tennis I think.  Not only in this match, I think I play good tennis two days ago against Andreev.  He's a very good tennis player on clay. 
 And also Gasquet I had a good comeback.  So I had different feelings during the whole week, and I think it's very important to me to play this week like I did because it's give me a lot of confidence to stay in good shape. 

 Q.  Tactically you seemed to play a lot of shots on his backhand and then tried to finish the point on his forehand.  Is this the only way you can win against Federer, or have you tried other solutions? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think he has the best forehand on the Tour, so it's very difficult to finish the point against his forehand.  So I think the tactic is prepare the point against his backhand, and then if you have the chance to finish the point anywhere, finish, you know.  Not only in his forehand. 

 Q.  Have you any expectation for Roland Garros right now? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Roland Garros it's so far ahead.  We are not thinking I think of that yet.  I'm thinking in the next week is Barcelona.  Of course I want to arrive very well to Roland Garros, but it's not maybe the time to think yet. 

 Q.  If tomorrow Federer plays Nadal who do you select to win that game? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  Always the matches with Federer and Nadal are so close.  Last year on clay was so close, so it's difficult to say, very difficult. 

 Q.  In best of three maybe Federer has a little bit of advantage? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Any way I think Federer has very good physically.  So also best of five I think he has chance.  It's very difficult to say.  It's very difficult, no? 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT