U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2011
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TIPSAREVIC/J. Ferrero
  7-5, 6-7, 7-5, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you talk about the weather conditions and whether or not, how difficult it was to play on Armstrong?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Well, it wasn't that difficult. I mean, I think we felt a little bit windy out there, but today was not that hot than the other days, or maybe humid than yesterday. So was a little bit tricky day, windy, but it was okay. 

 Q. Can you talk about the problems you were having with your foot on the court? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, I have blisters, like I had in the first day.
 You know, I still having the same ones as the first day that I play against Monfils. It was not easy to play like this, but I have to.

 Q. How difficult is it to have foot problems with your game predicated on moving around well?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, it's difficult. Of course it's difficult. I couldn't move as normal, because, you know, maybe in the long points I suffer more than I should, because, you know, my foot feel it at the end of the long points. So wasn't easy, but it is what it is.

 Q. The match was really tight and even for the first three sets. What happened in the fourth set that was a little different? What was different? What did he do different that threw you off, if anything?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I think physically I didn't get in the fourth set. Like maybe not 50%, because I have a little problem in my adductor, so I couldn't resist the whole time. It was very difficult to return his serve because I couldn't move, you know, very fast against the ball. You know, mentally it was tough to recover.

 Q. Was fatigue a factor at all? I know you had a couple of hard five setters and now you go back-to-back days. 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No, because I feeling great. It's only a problem that I had in the adductor? 

 Q. In terms of the blisters you had on the foot, at this point in the season is it something that happens at this time every year, having foot problems, or is this a special case?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I don't know. It's tough to say. Maybe here it's probably easier to have it because it's very humid so the foot is moving in the shoe. 
 So I think it's because of that now. No chance to another things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT