MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO
April 19, 2007
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  It's a good win for you against a strong guy, strong player?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, of course.  I'm very happy today because since the beginning of the match I felt so good, the ball.  I felt so good in the court.   
 I knew him pretty well, and I knew before the match that I have to play very good tennis to beat him because he's so strong.   
 He hit the ball so strong, and with his forehand he can beat anybody.  So, you know, I'm pretty happy for the win.   
  
  Q.  Your kind of reaction at the end suggested that it means an awful lot to you to win a match like this.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It's a good victory for me for sure, because I was expecting a good win in one of the weeks, and I knew that I played really good in South America in these tournaments, but it was a Masters Series, Monte-Carlo.   
 It's also special for me because I play very good here.  So this match means a lot to me.  It give me a lot of confidence to play tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel generally about your form at the moment?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm good.  Last week I didn't play my best in Valencia.  Also because I was a little bit sick during the tournament, but this week I'm feeling pretty well since the beginning.   
 Maybe the first day was the toughest day because Tim, his game is strange on clay.  But the other two matches I felt very good, so I think I'm in a good form.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel confident enough that you can do something major on clay this season?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  I have to go step by step.  But this week I feel so good, and I think the results of the -- I mean, two months ago in South America I played really good on clay, so I guess, why not this time?   
  
  Q.  What happens since Cincinnati, the big result and then not a lot of victory?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  After Cincinnati I lost four first-round in indoor, but all of them, 6-4 in the third and 7-6 in the first.  So I didn't have a lot of lucky, but I was playing good.   
 But always in indoor the matches are very close, so I didn't have a lot of lucky.  But anyway, I was expecting to play good in Australia and I didn't.   
  
  Q.  Why?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know why.  You never -- I was practicing and I was playing good, because I won the Master of Spain against Robredo, against Ferrer.  But I went there and I couldn't give my best.   
 But then I start to play good on clay and, Indian Wells I won two matches.   
  
  Q.  How would you compare your form from 2002 to now?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't want to compare it any more, because I'm talking about the same.  This week I'm playing a good level.  I think it's not a lot of difference with the level I was playing today.   
  
  Q.  Roger was saying that there's a lot of unity in the locker room and a lot of conversations in the locker room about keeping this tournament as one of the major tournaments on the ATP Tour.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course.   
  
  Q.  You've won it twice and you've been a No. 1 player in the world.  How much does it mean to you that this tournament remains one of the major tournaments in tennis?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It means a lot in the way of negative if they put it out, for sure.  Because I felt so great in this tournament.  I think it's so beautiful to play here.  You can see the crowd every day full, so if they put out this tournament I think it's a big mistake.   
  
  Q.  Has this whole scenario brought the players closer together.  From what you were saying it has unified the players.  So something good as come out of it in a sense?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, but anyway we were like this, you know, since I remember.  The players in the locker room and everywhere, we been always together.  But, in this case, we are more close.   
  
  Q.  One last question:  Maybe if you play Gasquet or Ljubicic?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Against Ljubicic, I play him a lot of times, but against Gasquet I never play against him.  He's going to be very motivated to win the match if he wins today.   
 And Ljubicic, I know him very good.  I'm playing good so I have confidence in me, and I have to be focused anyway.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT