ATP MASTER SERIES MADRID
October 18, 2006
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Juan Carlos, what are your feelings after the match? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, a very poor sensation.  He's a player that does not allow you much rest on the court.  And to play against him in this indoor court has never been easy. 
 I don't know if I had to play a high game, a low game.  I didn't know.  I was quite uncomfortable. 

 Q.  This last part of the season you have been training hard.  However, things have not been smooth for you.  What do you think the problem has been. 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  The last matches have been defeated on the third set.  So I have not been lucky because I have been playing well lately.  However, to be disqualified in the first rounds makes you lose confidence in yourself.  Maybe I'm not in the best moment of my career. 

 Q.  First of all, what are your plans, your next plans for the year?  Second question, what are your goals for next year? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I haven't thought about next year yet.  That's a very long-term perspective.  This year I'll think about it tomorrow.  I need to play Basilea Perez.  That's what I'm going to do this year.  For next year, we'll see.  It's quite a ways away yet. 

 Q.  What were your goals for this Masters?  What did you want to reach? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  In the final, I guess.  Of course.  Everyone wants to reach the final.  My first goal was to win the first round.  Then I had Federer, which was going to be a very difficult and tough match.  To think about the final was too risky considering how the draw had been decided. 

 Q.  I want to know what your mood is?  You're one of the champions of this tournament and I don't know you have felt the pressure on you.  Maybe you felt pressure on you because the day has been delayed.  Match after match, matches have been long. 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I knew they wanted to change my match court because of the delay, but that doesn't matter right now.  Of course I'm disappointed.  I cannot be happy with myself. 
 In the first round you face a player like him that does not allow to you play your own game.  My mood is low right now. 

 Q.  I heard you were going to play the last match maybe on the Alcala Court because of the TV issue? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I knew they wanted to change my match of court, but I don't know anything more. 

 Q.  The last set I thought you looked to the crowd.  Were you looking for something? 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think there's people that don't know how to behave.  They're quite stupid.  And those things that they're crying out, shouting out, I'd like them to tell me to my face, because I think those are stupid things they were saying. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT