TMS - MADRID
October 18, 2005
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish.  
 
 
Q.  Was the Masters a goal here at the end of the season?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course, it was.  Defeat always hurts, especially when you play in Spain.  However, it was a tough match because these matches are always difficult.  Especially Mirnyi, he has this special way of playing that gives you no rhythm, no pace.  You need to be careful all the time, be quick to return, see the balls quickly.  The court is okay, but altitude made it very quick.  I've only had one training session because I just arrived.  However, I think I returned well, I served well, but I wasn't able to take advantage of the second set, which seemed to be mine at the beginning.  Tiebreaks tend to give the victory to good servers.  
 
Q.  After being a finalist in Vienna, you were in high spirits, I guess.  You were feeling comfortable.  Did you have high hopes for this tournament?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I've been playing well, yes.  Vienna was one of the places I played well.  But then you get to tough matches and things happen.  However, my tennis is at a good point.  I'm now No. 11.  I'll try to get as high in the ranking as possible and start next year full to make it easier for me, easier than this year.  This year has been difficult for me.  For instance, this tournament, I was out as a seed for one position.  I hope to be ahead next year, to arrive earlier, to find things easier.  
 
Q.  Especially because you are used to starting as a seed in a tournament.  Starting in the first round of a tournament, does it make it more difficult?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, of course.  It's easier to face seeds once you're in the second or third round, more than if you face them from the beginning.  However, to be No. 11 instead of 16 is progress.  
 
Q.  I know it's far away, but can you make any predictions for the Davis Cup based on this match with Mirnyi? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I know it's going to be difficult to play against him.  However, here, altitude makes things difficult.  If the court is a bit faster, it will be more difficult maybe.  However, last time I won.  This time it wasn't possible.  If I adapt beforehand, things can come out better.  I found it difficult to adapt in this tournament.  If I adapt for a week for the Davis Cup, we can make it.  
 
Q.  You're playing well, but I'm not sure if you lack confidence.  In the set points in the first set, you lost it because of a double-fault, then a volley.  Is it lack of confidence? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, last week I achieved all those things you're talking about.  Four or five balls in a match cannot define things as you do.  I think last week was a good one for me.  Today was a good match, too, but not every match allows you to adapt.  Maybe I'm not sure on those difficult points.  That may be.  I'm not really sure if the ball is going to go in.  Here if you hit the ball without confidence, it's true that it goes out.  Maybe those balls I can gain confidence.  You need to keep trying.  
 
Q.  I don't know if you've realized since the final against Massu, you haven't won any tournament.  Do you feel pressure because you're at home?  Is it because of altitude?  Is it the curse of Madrid?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, it's tough for me not to win tournaments, not to have them to my name.  But there are many players in my situation.  I've played finals, anyway.  I think those are good results, if we take into account I start without being a seed. Altitude is difficult if you're not used to it.  However, I think I played a good match.  I know I haven't won a tournament in the last two years.  But what can I do?  
 
Q.  To use a bit of humor, how do you see tomorrow's match of Real Madrid?  Are you going to be there?  What do you think is going to happen?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, they told me if there was any penalty, they would allow me to shoot it.  I don't know if I'm going to stay actually.  We'll see.  
 
Q.  I want to know your opinion, because you were not present at the meeting with the president, the appointment of Emilio Sanchez.  What is your opinion about this issue? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I feel as the rest of the team.  I think Pedro is not doing things well, not at all.  We have nothing against Emilio.  Actually, we feel sympathy towards him.  He's already a member of the team right now.  We know him.  He's been a player of Davis Cup, so he has experience.  We were disappointed.  This was said in the meeting.  I wasn't able to be there, but they already expressed our opinion.  I would have liked to have expressed mine also, but I couldn't.  So that's what's happened.  Emilio has been chosen new captain, but Pedro has not asked us.  The only thing we hope is that he changes his opinion because he's going too far.  If he thinks he's doing things well, I think he's mistaken.  That's no, that's for sure.  
 
Q.  (In English) What do you think about the "Nadal-Mania" here in Spain?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think it's normal.  This moment he's playing good.  He played the whole year, I mean, he won 10 tournaments.  It's normal that Spain is thinking in only Nadal.  But anyways, you know, we are here.  We are the same tennis players as before.  We are not that far away.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT