US OPEN
August 30, 2005
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  What did you do after the loss of the match?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  After?  
 
Q.  Did you have any time to reflect upon the match?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I reflect a little bit, of course.  After all the matches, you have to reflect a little bit.  It's difficult after that lose because I played really bad today.  I've been playing really good tennis last couple of weeks in tournament as well.  But today, you know, I start hard, aggressive all the time with break in the first and break in the second, but I couldn't finish really good the sets, both.  The third, I was a little bit disappointed because I losing, you know, two sets down, and he was playing also good.  I didn't feel as good as in the third.  Anyway, I'm a little bit disappointed because I expect a lot in this tournament.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you beat yourself, you had an off day?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course, I had an off day.  I was practicing these three last days very good, playing really good sets.  I expect to play a really good match today because I was feeling -- I had very good feeling on the court.  But, you know, these kind of days sometimes happen.  It's not great days.  
 
Q.  You had a very close match against Hrbaty in Cincinnati.  Do you feel you didn't have enough preparation leading into the US Open?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I was practicing since that match.  I don't know if I have enough preparation.  But I try all the time.  I did all the practicing.  I didn't have holidays, just practice all days, make everything possible to get ready for the tournament.  
 
Q.  At this moment, do you have any plans for tomorrow?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  Of course, I will come back to Spain, keep going, keep practicing to get ready to the next tournament.  We'll see.  
 
Q.  What is going to be your next tournament?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Beijing. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT