WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2005
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English. 


Q.  Is there anything different that you could have done on court to have beaten him? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I think I didn't play bad at all.  You know, I was in the match all the time, you know.  I didn't go anywhere.  I was focused all the time.  You know, first and second, I did maybe some present to him with the first service that he broke me.  But in the second, I was good.  But he played really well.  In the third, I had chances to win.  I had some breakpoints.  I think I play well.  I had chance to win.  But is his surface.  When the match is so close, he plays so good.  Finally he plays better than me the last two points. 

Q.  How do you assess how he's playing?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think he's play with a lot of confidence.  When the matches are so close, he play at the same level all the time, no mistakes, no important mistakes in important points.  So, you know, he holds the concentrate all the time.  I think is very important. 

Q.  Is there any advice you'd give to Gonzalez about how to play him?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  Here on grass is very difficult to say a tactic.  Gonzalez, he has really good serves.  If he holds, you know, he has to go to the tiebreak and try to win. 

Q.  Federer said in his interview that the courts felt slower.  It may be partly the way you played.  What is your feeling? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe, yes.  But the court, I feel it the same as the other courts.  I didn't felt slower than the other ones.  Anyways, I play in Court 3, Court 2 and Court 1, and I didn't feel any difference from the Centre Court.  But, of course, if is slow the court, it helps a little bit to the players that can play here. 

Q.  Are you disappointed in anything you did today or do you feel you played very well and he played better?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm not disappointed because at the end of the match I wanted to win that tiebreak because I felt really good in the court playing against Roger, playing in Centre Court.  So I think I played a good tennis today.  But maybe I had to take some of that chances that I had.  That's the difference. 

Q.  Does your performance give you the confidence that you can play on grass, to bring back in the future?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, of course, I can play really good on grass.  I think I show it in this tournament.  I played great matches here.  I played great today.  So I cannot do any more. 

Q.  Are you physically a hundred percent?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, yeah.  I felt very fit on the court. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT