WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2005
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  You started slowly but you finished quick.  Were you happy with that? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, of course.  You know, with that time that the weather is not so good, finish quickly, is better that you can do it in the match.  Anyway, today was completely different than the other days.  The court was faster.  You know, I play a really good match.  I didn't feel that faster on the court. 

Q.  Do you think you're playing better on grass this year than you have in previous years?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe yes, because this year I had the opportunity to play a tournament before Wimbledon.  I played on Halle, you know.  I won two important matches against specialist players on grass.  So that match is give me a lot of, you know, experience on grass, and confidence as well because I won it.  I think is one of the reason that I am playing so much better on grass this year. 

Q.  Have you noticed in the five years you have played here a difference in the grass courts?  Are they easier to play on now than they used to be for a player like you who is good on slower surfaces? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I didn't feel so much difference in the courts.  Maybe in the balls.  Some years are more heavy than this year.  But not on the courts.  I play good in the slowest courts, but also on hard courts anyway. 

Q.  You now play Roger on Monday.  What are your thoughts on that? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, Roger, he's playing so good on this surface.  He didn't lose a match like, I don't know, 43 matches, 32.  Of course, he's a favorite.  But, anyway, I'm playing a good tennis here and I go with a lot of motivation.  The last time I play against him, I had two match points on hard court.  So, you know, if I play good, I think I have chances to good fight in the court. 

Q.  Which tournament was that?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Dubai this year.  But, anyway, grass is different everything.  I arrive very good physically, and mentality, I'm really high right now. 

Q.  You used to be the No. 1 play yourself.  Now you play a big favorite.  How is it different mentally to go against such a huge champion on the court?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, this give me a lot of motivation to play against him because he's No. 1 in the world.  He won two times Wimbledon here in a row.  You know, he's Roger Federer.  You know, you go to play against him with a lot of motivation, mentality a hundred percent and you try to play the best tennis you have. 

Q.  But there is no difference mentally and tactically against him or Florian Mayer?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No. 

Q.  Unlike some of your Spanish friends, you keep coming to try to play at Wimbledon.  Do you feel you're being rewarded for that persistence?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I didn't come to learn anything here because I played a lot of times here Wimbledon, so I came here to try to win as much as I can.  I was playing so good in Halle on grass, so I came here with a lot of confidence.  I came here to win, not to learn. 

Q.  You don't feel you have anything to learn about the grass?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course, you have something to learn.  But, you know, not like is the first year or second year you came here that it's very different.  You don't have any experience to play on grass.  Maybe to play good you need to have some experience to play. 

Q.  That inexperienced showed in your early years here, you paid for your inexperience?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe, maybe, maybe, yes.  But, anyway, two years ago I did fourth round as well here.  I didn't have the experience that I have, but I was playing good anyway. 

Q.  How do you think Roger is going to cope with your speed?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  You have to ask him.  He's very fast on the court.  He knows how he can play with everybody.  He's winning almost everything that he's playing.  He knows how he has to play against every player.  For sure he will know how has to play against me because is not the first time. 

Q.  For you personally, is a win on grass more worth a win on other surfaces or is it the same for you?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, this is very important if I win that match because, you know, Roger Federer is the biggest player on grass right now.  If I pass the fourth round, it's going to be the first time I'm be in quarterfinals here.  You know, I came playing really good this year.  I start 90 in the ranking, I'm 30.  It's very important to get that points for me also.  So it's a very important match. 

Q.  Do you feel one day you can return to your previously high ranking?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, why not?  I expect to the end of the year to be, you know, Top 10 or Top 12, something like this.  So, you know, I expect to be. 

Q.  You still have that desire to be right up there with the very best?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, of course. 

Q.  You think you can make it?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Why not?  I did it one time; I can do it again. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT