TMS MONTE CARLO
April 15, 2005
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  Well-played, Juan Carlos.  Could you talk a little bit about how you won the match?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, before the match I was thinking that I have to play a solid match without mistakes because he is playing so, so well with his backhand, you know.  He dominate a lot to the other players.  So, you know, I was moving so well in the court, you know.  I arrive perfectly to almost all balls.  I could make my game perfectly. 
 

Q.  You won over 70% of points on his second serve.  Was that a big factor for you?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I tried with his second serve to start dominate the point.  You know, I did almost every game that he served.  So, you know, was perfectly for me. 
 

Q.  Do you now think you're playing well enough to win the tournament again?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  Maybe yes, maybe not.  I'm playing well, and I'm with a lot of confidence again.  Tomorrow I know is going to be interesting match and very tough because Coria runs a lot and he has a lot of talent.  So, you know, I played a lot of times against him; sometimes he beat me, and sometimes I beat him.  So we'll see tomorrow.  Is gonna be a tough match for sure. 
 

Q.  Today you think that you were playing extremely well, or you think also that he wasn't playing at his best?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think he start very -- a little nervous.  He did a lot of mistakes at the beginning.  I think also I was in the whole court moving so well and he didn't find any side to make a point.  So both things are together, and makes me feel better and I go straight on this court so easy.  And also I think he's today -- he was today a little bit tired from the match of yesterday that was really tough.  But anyways I think he's a wonderful player.  He has a lot of good shots, you know, and very good backhand.  He can do everything he want with the ball.  So anyways I play really good match. 
 

Q.  This is your first semifinal since Valencia, almost a year.  What does this do for your confidence?  Does it suggest that you're back where you think you should be?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  For sure this semifinal is given to me injection of confidence.  You know, I'm playing good again since long time ago, that you said.  But, you know, I work since a lot of time for this, you know, to make a good result.  And then after this tournament doesn't matter if I win or if I lose, I know that I'm playing good again and I'll be ready to make good results in the next tournament. 
 

Q.  During this difficult moment you are out, was important the fact of Davis Cup that you didn't play, they prefer to yourself some other players?  Mentally, was important or not?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Mentally, is important to not play every week.  If I had to play Davis Cup, I had to play a lot of weeks.  I play Rotterdam, Marseille, Dubai.  And then if I play Davis Cup, it's four weeks in a row.  Then Indian Wells, Miami, and here.  So I had to make a break, you know, and was better to make it this week. 
 

Q.  But I ask about the Davis Cup final, the fact that you didn't play; someone else played in your place.
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, no, no. 
 

Q.  Do you feel is was important?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no.  Nothing about this, no.  If I had to play, was two matches, so doesn't affect to me. 
 

Q.  What about Nadal?  You were beaten so clearly.  What do you think about Nadal?  You are looking for revenge as soon as possible?  Some rivalry inside Spain between you, yourself, and him?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, the match of last week doesn't affect to me so much because I didn't play any point good, you know.  Anyway, he played a normal match.  He came with a lot of confidence.  He did normal match.  But anyway I played so badly.  Of course he's playing so good, and he's so up in the ranking.  He has a lot of power and confidence, I would think right now, because he's winning a lot of matches anyways on hard court or clay court.  So he is very good guy, and I don't want to take a revenge because I know that we gonna play a lot of matches during the year or maybe next year.  So if I have to take a revenge any match that I lose again, so it's gonna be, you know (smiling)... 
 

Q.  (Through translation from French.)  Do you feel again like a favorite now in the clay court tournaments?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  (Through translation from Spanish.)  I consider myself as an important player.  I played well here.  I've been fighting during the former tournaments to reach that level, and I won against very good players like Canas, Safin - that was an important win - Volandri.  So I believe now I'm an important player and, yes, I can consider I'm one of the favorites. 
 

Q.  We have just one complaint against you.  We are 20 Italian journalists, and lost.  Just one Spanish journalist, and you won.
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Luck.  Very lucky (smiling). 
 

Q.  How can you explain to the public that Ferrero one week ago doesn't play well, loses very badly against Nadal, and one week after suddenly is in the semifinal?  What is the explanation we can give?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, last week I was playing very well.  I was practicing well, and I was playing before that match very well.  But this match, you know, I feel some pression of my public there in Valencia.  I have to play very good, I have to show that I'm playing well, I have to show that I can play with Nadal, I have to show a lot of things.  This give to me a lot of pression, and I didn't play any point good, like I said.  But before the match I was playing good.  I was playing with a lot of rhythm, feeling good.  But that match, you know, sometimes happen that you can't make any ball.  Also because he's a left-hander and it's very unusual, the spin and everything.  So, you know, was happening this.  But I will tell you, I was playing good.  It's not like one day I play good and tomorrow I play unbelievable, you know, I play so bad.  That's not happen in tennis. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT