NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 23, 2005
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  It's been an interesting season for you.  You had a matchpoint against Federer, but on balance you are still not quite there yet, are you, to the point you want to be to play your best tennis?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, of course not.  But, listen, I play last four tournaments, you know, against Top 10 players, all second matches.  So always is not really easy to win that matches.  I play in Dubai against Federer.  I had chance to win against Joachim Johansson.  I play well.  I play Moya.  You know, it's quite difficult to win those matches.  But, you know, I am trying to win it and I am fighting for it.  
 
Q.  Today, against a player who is very young, very inexperienced, giving away so many points, did it surprise you to see you not playing as efficiently as you can play, and really this match should have been 6-1, 6-1?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, but you are not watching a good match because there is a lot of wind outside on the court, and wasn't easy to play.  He serve so strong.  He serve 130.  You think it's that easy to return this serve?  You think so?  You think it's that easy?  
 
Q.  But this is Juan Carlos. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I know, but, you know, I had to win the first set 6-1 and the second 6-3.  So, I don't know.  The important thing is that I am playing well.  There was a lot of wind.  It wasn't easy to play.  I won an easy match. 
 
Q.  How do you feel physically?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Physically, I felt really good since long time ago.  I had a lot of problems last year - but was last year, not this year.  So this year I am perfect physically.  I am trying to go back again.  
 
Q.  How close do you think you are to being the Juan Carlos Ferrero that won the French Open, reached the final at the US Open?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  I think I need a lot of matches to play to try to make this rhythm as before.  You know, those matches like I have to play against Canas has to give me that confidence.  
 
Q.  It looked like you were trying to play more aggressively, coming in a little bit, trying to take the forehand a little early.  Did you try to do anything more aggressively here on the hard court?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, always I try to play very aggressive from the baseline - on clay, on hard court.  So not because of the hard courts I have to play more and more aggressive, you know.  I am trying to play at the same level of aggressive all the time.  
 
Q.  The Federer match, even though it was a loss, it was a tight match and you played him really, really well.  Did that do anything for you in terms of confidence, or you already know that you've beaten him at the US Open in the past? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I know that I been playing very good that match, you know, and I had a lot of opportunities to win it.  So this match gave me a lot of confidence to know that if I am playing good, I can play against the best players in the world.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about Fernando Verdasco's next match.  What's your opinion? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Opinion, is going to be a tough match for both players because last week they meet in Indian Wells and they had a really tough match.  So I think I will see it here again.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT