U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2011
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. FERRERO/G. Monfils
  7-6, 5-7, 6-7, 6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Looked like you had the trainers coming to you for your foot, then blisters on your hand. Was that anything lingering or just during-the-match stuff?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, it was only, you know, maybe because it was a long time that I didn't play such a long match.   
 Also because of the humid. For skin, it's tough to get normal all the time. Is, you know, problems of the matches. I think I'll be okay.   
  
  Q. How satisfying is a win like that for you?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: A lot. I mean, this match means a lot for me because, like I said, it was a long time that I didn't enjoy inside the court.   
 Today was very physically match all the time, but I think I played the whole match a very good level.   
 Maybe the serve wasn't work very well in the whole match. But from the baseline I was trying to be very aggressive all the time and move him because, you know, his moves are very good.   
 So always tough to play against such a good player.   
  
  Q. Were you able to enjoy that there was a big standing ovation?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, of course, definitely. With 5-4 in the fifth set, you know, I felt very special on the court. I mean, when you saw this crowd enjoying all the time during the match, but at the end I think they love this kind of matches. So it's great to be in there.  
  
  Q. You've had such good results here at the US Open. What is your favorite memory from it?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Of course the year that I get No. 1 here in semifinals against, you know, I beat Agassi. I always like to watch him on the TV when I was young. So was big opportunity for me that year.   
 Was a pity to not win the tournament. But, you know, was great.   
  
  Q. Did this match bring back any memories of that 2003 run?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Not really. I was inside the match thinking in that match, not the other one. It was long time ago, different situation right now. Was difficult to get the memories of that year.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your health. How healthy are you now?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I still having little bit problems with my hip. I have some pain. But I played two matches, five sets. I've been testing too much right now. But I think I'll be okay to play in good conditions next round.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT