ATP MASTERS SERIES- MADRID
October 20, 2004
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Were you uncomfortable on the court with Horna?  Are you not fit?  Has there been an accident? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, I changed the racquet, as you know.  This is a racquet that hits the ball very hard.  Here I've had a difficult time adapting to the altitude.  Depends on the day; sometimes I play better than others.  Altitude is always a little problem.  Today the third ball I missed, I started feeling uncomfortable and lost confidence.  He has played normal, an average match.  The change of racquet is the type of thing that has to be prepared for a little bit better. 

Q.  You haven't felt anything unusual during the match? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, it's true.  I'm feeling a hundred percent.  My movements are fast, but altitude is there, and balls go fast. 

Q.  Why did you change racquets?  Were you not feeling comfortable with the other one?  Is it a marketing thing?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Davis Cup is far away still.  I can still adapt to a new racquet.  I was looking for a racquet I could control a little better, shorter than the Prince, in order to control a little better.  I told you, the racquet, I had difficulties adapting to it. 

Q.  You won't get to the extreme of Safin, who signed with another brand and ended up playing with the old one, but changed the brand.  You won't do it?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I won't. 

Q.  What's the next tournament you'll take part in?  Paris?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  The Davis Cup is the next one.  I think I need to rest a couple weeks, 20 days maybe.  Then 20 or 25 days of intensive training towards the Davis Cup. 

Q.  (No microphone.) 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm looking forward to seeing these bad periods over because my season hasn't been too good.  I'm looking forward to adapting to my new racquet.  I got here with only six days' preparation with my new racquet.  Those things can happen, I guess.  When I get to the Davis Cup, things will be better.  I'll get to rest and to forget my bad periods.  That's what I'm planning to do. 

Q.  We were used to seeing you win.  You're playing in the Davis Cup final, many other matches.  Do you have confidence in yourself?  It wasn't easy to win here.  Things aren't as bad as they look, are they? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  We're all human.  Not every year can be great.  If it was this way, we would all be top top.  To be on the top, you need to get some Grand Slams, Masters Series and the best results in all of them.  That's what I've been doing the last years, but not this one due to circumstances I think you all know.  The year has become harder and harder.  So right now with the rest and the Davis Cup, I am trying not to face the problems I faced this year. 

Q.  Next year you won't have as many points to defend.  Maybe that's a good aspect?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I won't have to defend many points.  But that means I haven't been playing well this year.  I would rather have to defend more points.

Q.  Today Corretja, Costa, Feliciano have lost.  What can you say to encourage the Spanish crowd?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  This is a Masters Series, you know.  Not only for the fact of playing at home, victory is guaranteed.  It's difficult on these courts where things go really fast.  Well, consolation for the crowd?  What could I say?  Some years are better than others.  That's all.  You need to support us when things go wrong, too.  Even the crowd and the public have good and bad moments.  Support is needed when things go wrong. 

Q.  Do you have a favorite?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I hope to see a Spaniard win the tournament like last year.

Q.  You're used to reaching the finals, winning titles, playing the whole week.  Do you think the problems that have prevented you from doing this this year have affected your play pace?  What have you noticed during this year? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm not at the level I usually play at, that's for sure.  Not to play many matches in a row does not help.  Training is training.  You can train well during the week, but then matches are another thing.  You need to be comfortable on the court.  When you play one week and then during two weeks you don't play a match, you can tell.  It affects your play.  Sometimes you hit the ball without any sensation.  That's a lack of confidence. 

Q.  I know it's not the best moment, now that you lost, but what do you think about models on the court? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't see any controversy.  I think they're beautiful girls that give some color to the match.  I see no problem. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT