US OPEN
September 3, 2004
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  What do you think made the difference in the match today?  You played from ahead, you had chances.  What do you think made the difference? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think the difference start when I start to feel the pain in my leg, you know.  After this, you know, I couldn't move so well, you know, on the left side, when he crossed me from his forehand to my backhand.  I think it decides a lot the match.  After the first set, I start to play a little bit better because I was not play very good, you know.  But, you know, I was fighting a lot, you know.  I win the second and the third.  After the third, you know, I start to feel the problem.  Anyway, I start very good with the break.  But, anyways, I couldn't serve very well because all the times when I was moving my leg to serve, you know, back to straight, I feel the pain. 

Q.  What exactly was the problem? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  In my abductor.

Q.  On the left side?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Right side. 

Q.  Right leg?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes. 

Q.  Is it a pulled muscle?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, muscle. 

Q.  Do you think it had something to do with the fact you had to play four and a half hours in the first-round match?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't think so because I had two days to recover very good, you know.  When I start the match, I felt good as, you know, a normal match.  I didn't feel any pain in my whole body.  I think it doesn't affect to me. 

Q.  You were in the same side of the draw this year as Andy Roddick.  You could have met him as early as the quarterfinals here.  How disappointed are you that you won't be able to get revenge for that loss in the final last year?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, no.  I'm disappointed because I lost today, and also I have a problem right now in my legs.  But not to not meet against him. 

Q.  Do you think you will be ready for the Davis Cup match against France? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I hope so. 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about this year?  Last year was such a wonderful breakthrough year for you, winning the French Open, of course, making the final at the US Open, reaching No. 1 in the rankings.  This year there have been a lot of obstacles for you.  How frustrating and disappointing has this year been, and how hard will it be to put it behind you and move forward? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It's frustrating, you can't imagine.  Of course, I'm not so happy this year because I couldn't play almost any tournament with a hundred percent fit, you know.  So, of course, I'm frustrated.  But anyways, this year is going to finish soon, you know, and I will -- I want to forget this year, you know.  I have some tournaments also until the end of the year.  But, anyways, this year is doing not so good for me. 

Q.  Rafael Nadal is playing tonight with Andy Roddick.  He won his first ATP tournament in Poland.  How do you see his chances to upset Roddick?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Rafael, I think he can win everyone really because he has a lot of potential, you know.  I think he's playing very well after winning the first tournament for him.  He's with a lot of confidence.  And, you know, he going to go to the court with a lot of motivation.  He's going to play against the champion of the US Open last year, you know.  It's going to be the first time for him that he's going to play against Roddick.  It's going to be a tough match.  But, anyways, Roddick is playing in his house, and also is going to be motivate, so is going to be an interesting match. 

Q.  Do you think he can withstand the pressure?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Rafael? 

Q.  Yes. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  He can feel it, but I expect him to, you know -- that he can play really good.  If he plays like he knows, he can beat Andy Roddick. 

Q.  Can you compare both players, quickness?  He's left-handed.  How is he going to play?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  How is he going to play? 

Q.  Yes. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I can't tell you secret.  I don't know.  Rafael, he plays very aggressive from the baseline, so I think he's going to take his chance, you know, try to return Andy serve and try to do his chance. 

Q.  Do you have any complaints about the code violation, losing a point today, in today's match? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  I think the chair umpires, you know, in global, they try not the same way as all the players.  Maybe it's easy to say code violation, and maybe to other big players it's not the same here in the United States.  So I'm not so happy with the chair umpire. 

Q.  Did you see any of Massu's match?  Do you know what happened with his match?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Uh-huh.

Q.  Do you think that's another example?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, I think so.

Q.  Different standards for different players?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Exactly.  I think so.

Q.  What will you do from now till the Davis Cup match? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  I don't know. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT