OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 17, 2004
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  It's a slow road back, isn't it?  You've had the illness and injury problems earlier in this year.  Did you lose confidence or what? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  A little bit, is difficult to come back and win easy, you know.  You know, I think I'm playing good.  I'm trying to get back the confidence.  I think the last matches that I lose in Cincinnati and here, I play really good.  I lost 6-4 in the third both matches, so maybe I needed some lucky to win the match.  But I didn't have in both matches.  But anyways, I think if I'm keep going in this way, you know, I can win a lot of matches in maybe US Open.  
 
Q.  Why do you think you couldn't finish it at 5-4 in the second?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  You know, I don't know what's happen with these two double-faults.  I was feeling good, you know.  I was serving good.  I was with confidence.  It wasn't nerves, you know.  You know, I had the sand out there, you know.  That was difficult to serve.  You know, I did these two double-faults, and the match start to be difficult because I lose the concert.  The break was pretty early in the third.  You know, the third set was pretty difficult.  
 
Q.  What are you not doing now that you were doing this time last year? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  It's very difficult to say.  Maybe last year I was with a lot of confidence and maybe these small things at 5-4 I did well and I finish the match maybe last year.  
 
Q.  Do you see a gap, you're not sure if you're going to make the shot?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, nothing of this, you know.  I try to make the same way as before.  I'm the same guy as last year, you know, but with less matches in the whole year, and maybe some more problems in the whole year.  But anyway, I'm the same guy.  Try to do the same.  
 
Q.  How do you rate Mardy's game?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Mardy, I think he play very good in the first set.  He did a lot of winners on the line, you know, and he served pretty good in the last game with 15-40.  He played very good points with a difficult moment, with the present moment, the tiebreak, 5-4.  You know, anyway, I think if I was playing pretty good, I could win the match 6-4, 6-4.  
 
Q.  You said you're playing well.  Looking forward towards The Open, do you feel pretty good?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah.  I don't feel pretty good right now.  But I think I'm in a good way.  I'm practicing well.  I played two good matches, the last two good matches.  I'm trying to keep in this line, you know, try to have more luck in the next games.  
 
Q.  What are the priorities now?  Davis Cup?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  Come back to Spain, then go through to US Open the next Thursday, and then I have Beijing, Davis Cup and Shanghai.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT