AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 28, 2004
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Could you maybe describe where the turning point in that match was?  It was a close battle between two baseliners.  The main reason you came through today? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, I think we have same style to play, you know, in hard court.  You know, we play from the baseline.  You know, we are a good rallies tennis players.  We like to play from the baseline, you know.  You know, is our style.  We try to play our best tennis, and we do a lot of points on the baseline.  You know, that's it. 
 
Q.  What was the key to the victory today?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  The key?  I think, you know, the key -- I don't know.  The key is that I could win more points than him.  No, I think I play very good with my forehand, you know.  I try to do a lot of pression in his backhand with my forehand all the time, you know, and try to go to the net sometimes.  And also I think I serve very good, and I could leave in difficult moments when my serve is very good, with some ace, with free point with the service.  So I think the key was service and forehand. 
 
Q.  Are you disappointed you didn't win the second set more easily? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, yeah, I could win easier.  With 5-4, 40-15, you know, easy volley, I could finish the point very good, and the set.  And finally I did easy mistakes, you know, until the end of the set.  But finally I could win the set.  Was better, because if not in the third set I start to feel a lot of tired, you know.  If I lose the third set, who knows if I can win the match, because at the end of the third set I start to feel very tired. 
 
Q.  Are you sore also?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, also, yeah.  But, anyways, I think I will be okay again in two days.  You know, I need some rest today and tomorrow.  Tomorrow I will play like 30 minutes, 40 minutes.  You know, with 48 hours, I think, I will be okay.  Today, anyways, the match was very tough.  We do a lot of long points, you know, a lot of rallies.  So for my legs, it was a good test because two days ago I was with a lot of problems.  And today was a good test, and I think I pass very good.  
 
Q.  On the hard court, compared to clay, are you 80% comfortable, 90%?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, a hundred percent. 
 
Q.  You're just as comfortable as on clay?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes. 
 
Q.  When did that happen? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  All the last year I play very good on hard courts.  You know, I did US Open final.  I did Master final.  You know, I did a lot of great results on hard court, so it means I can play very good.  My confidence on hard court is a hundred percent as clay court. 
 
Q.  If you have a choice, you still prefer to play on clay?  It's more natural? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  So-so, huh?  I like to play on hard courts, as well. 
 
Q.  You actually have very good results on all kinds of surfaces, even in Wimbledon and here with the Australian Davis Cup. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Is it a big motivation for you to be the first Spanish guy to have big results on all surfaces?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  You know, I try to give my best on all surface, you know.  I think, as the other players, you know, the other players also try to play very good on grass courts.  But, you know, I think I have a court in my academia, to try to practice there.  A synthetic grass court is not the same, but I can practice two weeks after Roland Garros.  I can feel how I have to play on grass also.  So, you know, I had the chance to prepare very good.  Maybe it's this reason that I can play good also on grass courts.  
 
Q.  To be No. 1 again, does that provide extra motivation for you? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, of course.  Of course, yes.  You know, I have very close the No. 1.  And also because Roddick is out of the tournament.  He lose some points, you know.  I am in the semifinals with the chance to try to pass to the final and go closer to be a No. 1 again.  So it's, of course, I'm very motivated to try to get it again.  
 
Q.  People are talking about Roger Federer, Andre Agassi, not so much about you.  Does that bother you or is that good for you? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, I don't know why because I think I play really good matches against them, you know, and I won against both players.  So I don't know why they talk about this.  
 
Q.  You have quietly gone through the tournament where most of these players have a lot of focus on them.  Does that give you extra motivation to do well here?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, no.  I go on my way.  I try to win my matches.  If the people don't want to talk, for me, I will go the same way in the court. 
 
Q.  Is it tough to play someone like Arazi who gets so many balls back and also gets the crowd laughing?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, is very tough because he runs a lot, you know, and it's very difficult to win a point, so...  He has a lot of talent also with his backhand, you know.  Also when you play with left-hand guy, it's difficult to return his serve.  And, you know, I played a lot of times with him, and always is difficult.  So I knew it before the match that is going to be very, very tough match.  
 
Q.  Did you train with Marat Safin when he was in Spain at all?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Sometimes.  Was long time ago when he was living in there.  
 
Q.  How do you rate him?  You might play him. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  What?  
 
Q.  How do you like playing against him? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Safin, he has a lot of potential tennis, you know.  He's pretty tall, you know.  He has a lot of power.  He serve very strong.  His performance, you know, forehand and backhand, you know, he hit the ball very strong.  You know, he's a tough guy to win, of course.  
 
Q.  Your groin injury, do you think it comes - like Grosjean was injured here, many of the women players are injured, as well - would it come from the Rebound Ace courts, or could it happen at the US Open as well? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I can't tell you.  I don't know.  It's impossible to know for me.  You know, these courts are very, you know -- I don't know how you say in English.  
 
Q.  Sticky? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, yeah, very sticky, you know.  When you run a lot, you have to slides a little bit, and you can't.  You know, and maybe for the legs is very tough.  But, anyways, we have to play on all surface.  And if we have this one in here, we have to try to prepare so good. 
 
Q.  Back to November, you didn't play that well in the Masters Cup.  You lost some matches. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I started the year with one loss just in Sydney, you know.  Last year is last year.  If I start the new year, I start a new year.  You know, I have to forget master cup, maybe Davis Cup.  And then I try to came here and give my best tennis again.  So I was a lot of motivated, you know, because I lose in Sydney.  You know, I try to play good there, but I couldn't.  So I came here practicing well and try to play good.  
 
Q.  Where is your level now?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know.  I'm playing very good.  You know, I'm playing very solid, very strong.  I'm serving good.  So I have I think chance to win.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about your next opponent, Nalbandian or Federer, the challenge they pose to you? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Roger is also a very good, talented guy.  He can do every shot when he wants, you know.  Always is difficult to return his serves, you know.  And he does amazing shots wherever he want. And Nalbandian also play with a lot of talent.  Forehand and backhand very solid.  No mistakes on the court, you know, very concentrate all the time.  So the winner of today's going to be very difficult for me to win.  
 
Q.  Who do you expect to play?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, is very difficult to say.  Both guys are very good tennis players, so I don't have prefer to play.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT