MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 16, 2010
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/J. Ferrero
  6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Juan Carlos.   
  
  Q. The score was very close to the match you had here in 2008 with Rafa. The two matches are similar or you feel they were completely different?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Well, at the beginning I didn't start my best. I think I had the chance to win some more games, but I didn't.   
 He's always there. I mean, he's always where he has to be. He plays better in the important moments.   
 You know, I feel today that maybe I need some more power to get on the court three or four balls more in important moments, like in 5-4, beginning of second set. I felt a little bit tired today in some moments of the match.   
 You know, he was so powerful out there, yeah.   
  
  Q. In the other match, you were playing much more inside the court.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: In the other match?   
  
  Q. The other matches you played before here. Is it because of his shot or your tiredness?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, I think he's playing a little bit more aggressive. I don't have maybe the time that I have before. And also, you know, I haven't the power that I had yesterday maybe to push and push all the time.   
 I had to push with my forehand all the time, and I think I missed some easy balls in important moments that I move him all the time. I have the impression that I was dominate the point a lot of times, and I couldn't finish.   
 So maybe I needed a little bit more power to push and push all the time.   
  
  Q. If you had to compare his level with the one he had the times you played before with him...  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I think on clay, he is at the same high level. Of course, he has some bad matches on clay. But still he put a thousand balls on the court, and it's difficult to get him a winner.   
 So his bad days are good (smiling).   
  
  Q. What is your judgment about this match, your level at this moment?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I had the impression that I could make more. If I had hundred percent on the court, I think I could be more close in the score. I saw the statistics. Wasn't a lot of difference.   
 I mean, he did two more winners than me and two less errors. So, you know, it wasn't that big difference. But it's like this.   
  
  Q. You'll go to Barcelona now?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yes.  
  
  Q. No problems of train or plane to go there?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No.   
  
  Q. There are so many problems with planes in Europe at the moment.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No.  
  
  Q. You seemed to be more aggressive before the rain delay. Can you comment what you did before the delay?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Well, with the wind, it was very difficult to be aggressive. But, you know, I try and try. But then when the match start, it was a little bit longer. When we play like an hour, I start to feel a little bit more tired than the beginning, and I couldn't push all the time that I was doing at the beginning.   
 I had to be very aggressive with my forehand if I wanted to win the match, you know, try to move him a lot to get him a little bit tired. I didn't do it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT