AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2004
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Juan Carlos. 


Q.  Can you talk about your training schedule over the winter, what part of your game did you work on?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  This past December? 

Q.  Yes. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I didn't have so many time to work a lot, because I start the day 15th of December, after holidays.  I just worked hard physically, some gym, you know, to take some power.  Then I start to practice hard after one week very hard in the gym, I start to practice tennis, you know, day to day more hours.  Finally, you know, I practice normal.

Q.  Do you spend as much time in the gym as you do on the court?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Just the first week.  Just the first week.  And then I do mix.

Q.  We talk about here how it's hard when one Australian plays another Australian.  Is that now becoming the same for you guys, when you come up against each other, it's harder?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, is hard.  I mean, you don't like to play against a Spanish guy because, you know, if he's Spanish guy, of course, he's your friend, and is not easy to play as a friend.  But anyways, you have to play against everybody, you know.  Sometimes we are a lot of Spanish players.  Sometimes you have to play.  So is the life.  You can't do anything.

Q.  But is that what this week is about, just getting the job done so you can get into week two? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, yeah, of course.  I will work in this way, you know.  If I have to play, I have to play. 

Q.  Who were your heroes growing up?  What did you learn from them?  What do you think youngsters can learn from your game?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  What hero? 

Q.  Idols. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I didn't have idols.  I just love to watch the matches against Sampras and Agassi, you know, because when I was younger, he played a lot of finals, you know.  I lean more from Agassi because I played like him, you know. I like to watch these match.

Q.  Do you think any tennis fans can learn anything from watching you?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I hope so, you know.  Maybe they can learn that I hit the ball very hard from the baseline, you know, and I try to finish the point in the net.  I improve a lot on my serve.  I think they can see this. 

Q.  We saw last year how important the Grand Slam wins are in terms of the overall rankings.  Has that changed over the last couple of years?  Do you win Grand Slams to win the Grand Slams, or do you win them for overall rankings and position?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, to win a Grand Slam, it's a Grand Slam.  Always will be a Grand Slam.  But it's been if you win a Grand Slam, of course you're going to be in the top because it gives you a lot of points, like 1,000 points if you win a Grand Slam.  And also if you win a Grand Slam, you better player, for sure.  You have experience to win it, you know.  Is going to help you in everything, you know, in experience, in confidence.  You play a lot of matches, you know, against the top players.  Because if you win a Grand Slam, you have to win everybody, you know, the top players as well.  So it's pretty difficult.  If you did it, it's wonderful. 

Q.  Now that you've won one, you do feel that you've got the ability?  You come into a Grand Slam expecting to win?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Exactly.  I come into a Grand Slam expecting I can, you know, win.  If I win, I can do a great results here. 

Q.  You have a lot of friends in Thailand because after your tournament at Thailand.  Will you come back to Thailand for the next tournament, Thailand Open?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Thailand Open, I will see.  I will see.  I'm going to try to go again. 

Q.  Why do you not often smile at your crowd?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I smile when I finish the match, you know.  I think for me, to be positive, to be concentrate, I have to be focused on my game, you know.  I don't have to smile to somebody, say something.  You know, it's difficult because you have to be concentrate.  For me, if I smile to anyone or everybody, you know, it's difficult for me just to still concentrate.  I take it this way. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT