adidas International
January 13, 2004
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  How disappointed are you with that performance? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm not disappointed, you know.  I think I couldn't play more than I did because he was serving very good all the time, you know.  You know, I think I'm feeling that if I didn't play a match, because I play, I think, one rally in the whole match.  I think this is not the way that, you know, maybe the tennis players like to play.  It's, you know, difficult to play against these kind of guys.  You only hit the ball one time in each point, you know  - service and maybe one return.  It's difficult to be with a good performance. 
 
Q.  Did you know anything about him?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no.  Some guys told me that he serve very good, you know, but...  I couldn't feel it today. 
 
Q.  He was a hitting partner with the Australian team at the Davis Cup final.  Did you see him at all?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I didn't meet him.  No, was the first time that I see him.  
 
Q.  What kind of player do you think he is? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, is difficult to play like this because if one day you serve bad, you know, I don't know how he can play from the baseline because, you know, I think I didn't play any rallies with him, you know.  I only could see one return and maybe two more shot, you know, but not more.  So maybe I have to see when he serve bad, you know, and we'll see what's happen.  But normally if he serve like this, it's difficult to return, maybe he's gonna go to a tiebreak, and maybe it was his.  So maybe he can win a lot of matches with this serve.  
 
Q.  How much of a set-back is this for you for your Australian Open preparation?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think nothing, especially like I can practice tomorrow and after tomorrow, you know...  Of course it's better to take rhythm with winning matches.  But, anyway, you know, I can practice tomorrow and after tomorrow.  And I am playing good, so, you know, I think is okay.  I'm not worry about.  
 
Q.  When you first claimed your first big scalp when you were coming through the ranks, what was the feeling you had then?  Can you think of what maybe Chris is feeling at the moment? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think you are very motivated to play against any player because, you know, always when you are starting, you know, you like to play with top, you know, guys that they like 2, 3, 4 or Top 10, Top 20.  I don't know his ranking, but, you know, you have losing and you are very motivated to play. 
 
Q.  Are you getting tired of playing Australians?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  A little bit, you know.  We didn't have a lot of time, but, you know, is okay.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT