TMS - MADRID
October 18, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English.  
 
 
Q.  Were you worried he was going to maintain the level he hit in the second set?  He started playing very well.  Were you concerned after he won the second set? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, I know him very good.  I think he was playing good also the first set.  But I think I was serving pretty good, you know.  I get only one break with his serve.  You know, that is 6-4.  In indoor courts, everything is passing very quickly, you know.  We play a good match.  In the third set, I think was the same as the first set:  one break, that's it. 
 
Q.  What does it mean to you to be in the final here in Madrid? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It means that I'm working pretty good.  This year I played a lot of matches.  I won a lot of matches - indoor courts, clay courts, hard courts, grass courts.  It means that I'm playing very good in all surface.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you have to do more to prove to people that you're the real No. 1 than Roddick or Federer?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, maybe I have worked a little bit more, that's true, on these types of surfaces.  But know I have trained.  I have an indoor court in my training place.  So now I have it easier playing on this type of surface.  It's true that they can have it easier to play on fast courts because they are in Switzerland and all.  But I've proved I can do it, too.  
 
Q.  Tomorrow the final against Massu.  What do you fear from his game?  By the way, he wants to play against you. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think his tennis has been very consistent, without many unforced errors.  Besides, he's very fit physically, and has good stamina.  It's true that he hits the ball very well.  I think I'll be able to put up with it.  
 
Q.  The fact that you're improving your serve, it's not a novelty either.  What about today and the first day, only two points?  Are you confident because of that? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, that's very important, to serve well on these types of courts.  Especially Madrid, it has a lot of advantage here, it's important to serve well.  Especially during the second and third set, I served really well.  The truth is that if you play well the first serve, you have the initiative, then it's difficult for him to win the point.  
 
Q.  Not only are you going to be No. 1 of the ATP Monday, but also tomorrow maybe in the champions race.  What do you think?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I wish it were true.  That's every player's dream, to become No. 1 in the ranking, the entry list and the race.  That's a dream.  I hope to win tomorrow and become a double No. 1.  
 
 
Q.  Has Jose Maria, the president, called you or congratulated you? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  He told me Spain is doing very good.  He told me to keep on.  
 
Q.  Throughout the year, you're playing well.  You've been fit throughout the year, because remember Australia in the quarterfinals.  Tell us the secret.  Is it the oranges of your town, is it the people that surround you? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It's a little bit of everything.  Paella also helps.  But seriously, I think it's work.  I've worked hard throughout the year, from beginning to the end.  Results do come after such an effort.  One feels good then when everything goes as it should.  
 
Q.  Was your week on the court as tough as the week outside the court?  Did you feel all the activity of this tournament that surrounds you?  Does it prevent you from concentrating?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think all that is part of being a tennis player.  But I have to concentrate also on my game.  Those things, in fact, are there to help me, I guess.  They shouldn't be made unwillingly, in fact.  But I've tried to plan it in order for me to have time to train and for me to do both things at the same time, inside and outside the courts.  
 
Q.  To be No. 1, the way you can get to be No. 1 consistently as you can do, is it like being a pop star or a rock star?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't really know.  I'm happy with what I do.  I guess No. 1 in rock would also feel well, great.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  Through the second set, there was a moment you were a little bit weak.  Was it when you saw a problem with one point, a dispute you had, a call that you didn't agree with?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It's true I didn't agree with the ruling.  After that, I played worse.  But these type of matches that are so equal are like this.  I've had two very good moments.  5-4, that last moment, that was a little worse.  But in the second set, things happen like this.  
 
Q.  To win in this tournament at home, on this surface, indoor, where would it be among your triumphs in your career?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It would be a very important tournament for me.  It would be my first indoor victory, fast court, Masters Series.  It would define me as a player that can win on any type of surface.  So tomorrow could be a very important victory.  But I don't know where to place it among my triumphs.  It would be one of the most important, that's for sure.  
 
Q.  Considering the characteristics of your tennis and Massu's, how do you think the match is going to be tomorrow?  Long or fast?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think it's going to be long because it's five sets.  It's going to be long.  He's playing very well from the baseline.  I think it will be tough.  
 
Q.  You can still add good results to this season.  You're in the final, the final of Davis Cup, you're going to the Masters Cup.  Can you win all of it? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, you can, but it's very difficult.  Let's start by tomorrow, tomorrow's final, then we'll have Paris, Houston.  I'd like to be in the final of both tournaments, of course, especially Houston, which is a nice tournament.  Also Paris, I'd like to do well because it's a beautiful tournament.  Let's see what happens and hope it goes well.  
 
Q.  We're all talking about rankings, points, things like that.  There are some wins sometimes that are more important than the rankings and points.  Do you feel today was that kind of win, to beat Federer on a fast court? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Sometimes victories like the one today or the one against Srichaphan the other day, sometimes these types of victories are more important than the No. 1.  In fact,  I've tried to forget the top place during every match and think only about the match.  Today I just tried to defeat one of the best players of the indoor courts, Federer.  That was my goal today.  It was an important match today for me because I proved to myself that I can defeat one of the best players indoors.  
 
Q.  You don't want to say anything about the team that's going to play the Davis Cup, to the final? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I wish them luck, I guess to any Spaniard.  
 
Q.  Now you're a journalist.  Tomorrow you have to put the headline for the match against Massu. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  To a journalist, you would give a whole evening.  Now you're giving me a second.  What can I say?  I don't know.  I have no idea.  I don't know.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT