MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 15, 2010
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J FERRERO/J. Tsonga
  6-1, 3-6, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Juan Carlos.   
  
  Q. How do you rate the level of the play today? Was it high or...   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: The third set I think was high. First and second was so-so. Because first set I won it very easily. Second, you know, just one break, and I couldn't break back.   
 But the third set I think we both show the level we have on clay court, and I think I played a very good match, yeah.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised in any way by his way to play in the third set on clay?   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: No, 'cause I saw the other day the match against Almagro. I saw him play very solid match, slicing very well, recovering balls like maybe a specialist, clay court, that only they know.   
 Yeah, it wasn't surprise for me, yeah.   
  
  Q. Between playing him in Miami on hard and here on clay, what's the main difference?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Main difference I think is I can return a little bit easier the serve. Over there, he serve like today 215 all the time, 220. It was very tough to return. And here the ball goes a little bit higher with the spin. So this is a big difference, I think.   
  
  Q. What do you think made the difference at the end of the match between you and him?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I had a lot of ambition to win the match. I mean, since the beginning, I get on the court with a lot of ambition. I wanted to win this match 'cause I knew that I was playing very well the tournament. The two matches that I played, I was hitting the ball very well, you know, dominate all the time.   
 Today I wanted to show to myself that I can win those matches.   
  
  Q. Obviously you are on a fine run on clay this season. Isn't it too soon to face Rafa?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: To soon? I would love to play maybe on semifinal or the final. But right now the draw is like this. I will face him tomorrow.   
 So I think I will try to play very aggressive with my forehand to his backhand, and then I will try to not do a lot of mistakes 'cause, you know, he's arriving to all the balls.   
 But I play many times against him. Also practice. I know the way, you know, to fight, to try to play well.   
  
  Q. Do you feel you are playing better now than when you beat him in Rome?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I'm playing better? I don't know. Is difficult to compare these two matches. In Rome, we had more matches on clay. Here is the first tournament. It's difficult. It's tough to compare.   
  
  Q. You look to play better.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I'm in the court. I'm not watching me (smiling).   
 But, no, I feel better. Physically, for sure better.   
  
  Q. Do you think you are stronger now than in 2003?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: As I said, is very difficult to compare. For sure, I have more experience. Even I can choose better the tournaments that I can play good, and this is very important, I think.   
 So right now I have more experience. Maybe my serve and my backhand is a little bit better than over there, and physically I'm stronger than 2003 for sure.  
  
  Q. You play very inside the court.   
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I'm trying. I'm trying.   
  
  Q. How important is it to get the winning feeling of tournaments again? You had a barren spell, then you won one last year, two this year. How important is that mentally?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Very important. Very important because you practice for it. You practice so hard. You start the year like I started, so for the confidence, for my mind, for everything, it's very important.   
  
  Q. Do you think it means something that Rafa won two matches in a row leaving just one game each match? Do you think it has a meaning?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: It's impressive. For sure is impressive. Always is very difficult to win the matches like this.   
 But what I think, too, he didn't find a player that plays very good on clay. He plays against Becker and Berrer today. Both players, I think they are better on hard court.   
 So, you know, it's difficult to say. But, anyway, Rafa plays very well against anybody on clay, I think.   
  
  Q. We asked you the question a hundred times, but what is the key to beat Rafa for you?  
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Win one more point than him (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT