TMS - MADRID
October 15, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish for Juan Carlos.  
 
 
Q.  Did you ever see it was lost? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, like everyone, I think.  I only had won one game .  Especially with 40-30 for him.  It was incredible.  I tried my best from the beginning.  Sometimes it was the best, sometimes it was a little bit weaker.  But I think the crowd was there with me, especially in the bad moments.  That was very important for me.  They have supported me a lot.  
 
Q.  This match, Indian Wells, Paris, would you have been able to win it without the crowd?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, I don't think so.  This was like the Davis Cup because the crowd was with me completely.  I thank them a lot.  
 
Q.  Are you tired now that we're coming close to the end of the season?  How about your foot?  Have you taken yourself out for Australia?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  
 
Q.  Are you sure? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, no.  I only said that I might not be going to Australia.  I said this in Bangkok.  That was probably one out of one million chance.  I don't know why people think I'm not going to go to Australia.  There are many points that I risk, so it all depends.  
 
Q.  So you're tired? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes.  It's the end of the season.  I have an injury, a small injury in my foot.  But I can still play.  I have decided to change my bandage at the end in order to be more comfortable. 
 
Q.  This tournament has the world elite, but it has to be said that this type of court gives you players more difficulties than grass maybe because it's faster.  Other courts are easier for you players. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Incredible, you tell us that.  Really, I don't know.  I think our results prove that this question should not be asked.  The one on the screen has made a final (Moya), Alex Corretja, too.  
 
Q.  We asked Ferreira if he found the public upsetting.  He said yes, that never in his life has he faced a public like this in Madrid. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Why?  I think people haven't talked during the points.  I think the crowd was really supporting me.  That's just a thing he has to understand.  If he were in his country, people would do the same, I guess.  But I think during the points, during the game, no one has annoyed him, has disturbed him.  
 
Q.  Tennis players on the top like to start tournaments in early rounds.  Is it a disadvantage because you start to play without previous practice?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I guess if you play a match before, you get a bit more prepared.  But a bye is also an advantage.  It has advantages and disadvantages.  You have to accept it.  
 
Q.  Do you have an opinion about the Davis Cup team, about Feliciano being on the team or not?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  I'd rather not talk about this in a tournament because I think it doesn't help.  The captains are facing a very difficult decision.  If I think it's a good decision, I'm being not very polite towards Albert.  If I do the opposite, it can provoke an influence.  I think it's better for them to make a decision and we can all talk about it afterwards.  
 
Q.  Can your small injury affect you for the future, for this tournament, so on?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Pain only comes from time to time if I'm forcing my foot to extremes.  It's a matter of the blood not flowing very well in my foot.  But I'm almost perfectly healthy.  I'm still feeling a bit unstable anyway.  I can play almost a hundred percent.  I'm working to improve my situation.  
 
Q.  After the double-faults, did you think you could win the match?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I saw him nervous with his double-fault.  It wasn't quite normal for him.  I knew he was nervous because it hit the net.  I tried to break his serve no matter what happened, and then keep fighting.  It wasn't really clear I could win, I could beat him.  That's never to be taken for granted.  
 
Q.  You said you felt the pressure.  What about here? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, if I lose, I lose the No. 1 in the ranking.  I cannot be obsessed with that idea.  Everyone has lost No. 1 at one stage of their career.  People that are behind me are also strong, so it's difficult to keep on the top forever.  I try hard every day to stay there.  But today wasn't pressure.  It wasn't a matter of not having a good day.  I'm not adapted to a fast court like this.  I hope tomorrow I'm going to be better, play a more complete match.  
 
Q.  Was it motivating for you to have Real Madrid in the boxes, almost the complete team? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Well, it's always nice to have all the Real Madrid players there.  But I don't know what to say.  Well, yeah, it was nice to see them.  The same I went to see their training yesterday.  So it's good.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT