US OPEN
August 28, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Juan Carlos.  
 
 
Q.  Can you just talk about being down the first set, second set goes to a tiebreak, then you just cruised from there. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, these matches are very long, and you have the chance, if you start not so good, like today, you have the chance to come back and play good tennis like today.  I think I start with a lot of mistakes all the time, and he was serving so good.  He was putting his first serve all the time, doing a lot of aces.  I couldn't read his serve in the whole first set.  You know, when he did the break in the second set, I leave that set, because it was very difficult to come up again.  You know, in the second set, was very close.  I think I had a lot of breakpoints to break him, but I couldn't do it.  Finally in the tiebreak, I think I play very well.  Since the tiebreak, I think I play a great tennis all the time.  
 
Q.  Did you know Melzer?  What do you think about his game? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think he has a lot of power.  You know, he has a good serve, very good forehand.  He goes to the net a lot of times, you know.  He can play I think very well.  But maybe he has to improve a little bit his experience in a big point.  
 
Q.  Were you ever worried it was going to get away from you? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no.  I try to give my best all the time, don't think about win or lose.  
 
Q.  Coming in as the third seed, what were your expectations coming into the tournament?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, I'm thinking win the tournament, of course.  Like three players, we have the opportunity to be No.  1, you know.  I think each one want to be.  So if you want to be, you have to try to give your hundred percent in tournament, try to win a lot of matches.  So expecting to win the tournament, for sure.  
 
Q.  After a long match like today, how do you feel physically?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I feel all right.  I feel all right because I have enough time to be good in the next match.  I played also four set in the first round, and today I was perfect.  So I think I'm going to be okay.  
 
Q.  How do you feel about your game on a hard court?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Everyone is talking about this.  I practice all my life on hard courts.  I feel very comfortable in hard courts.  I did a lot of results - good results - in hard courts.  I think nobody has to think that I'm not a good player in hard courts.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT