WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 13, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Juan Carlos.  
 
 
Q.  You seemed to be playing pretty well for a set and a half.  It slipped away by a very narrow margin.  Why do you think that happened? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe, you know, with the matches, you know, his passing, you know, passing all the time, you know, and just start to feel tired and tired because out there is so hot, so humid, you know, and it's not easy to play.  But I think I was playing very good first and second serve , second set.  With 5-4 in the second tiebreak, I had the chance to do a passing shot with my backhand, and I didn't.  So I think if I hit this ball in, you know, with 6-4 and two matchpoints, the match was mine.  But, you know, in the third set was tough every game.  He was serving so good in the third set, and I didn't do so well in the third set my serve.  But, you know, I think with 5-4 I didn't put any first serve, you know.  I play all the point with the second, and I give to him the chance to return easy.  
 
Q.  After what happened last week, do you feel satisfied or more pleased with this performance compared to last week? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I think during Montreal I was playing very good the first two matches.  Here, I think I play good.  I play a good tennis yesterday and today, but I think today I had a little bit unlucky in the second set and also in the third with a breakpoint with 3-all, you know.  No, it was pretty close, the match.  
 
Q.  Was it in your mind either before or afterwards that you might play each other again in Malaga? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, but Davis Cup is different.  Over there is gonna be clay court and in Spain, you know, and all the crowd supporting us.  It's different.  
 
Q.  Gaudio has won maybe six of the ten times you've played.  Is there something about his game that's tough to handle? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know, but I won the last four times.  Today, I lose 6-4 in the third.  But, you know, I was winning the last four times, so it's means that I can play good against him.  
 
Q.  Do you feel well-prepared for the US Open? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, I have one week and a half where I can practice well.  And I think if I'm on the way of this tennis that I play in the first two sets, I think I can play good.  
 
Q.  How much better on clay are you than hard now?  Your hard court game is improving all the time.  Are you 80 percent on hard courts compared with clay, or 75 percent? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I can't tell you.  It's impossible to say, you know.  It depends of the weeks, you know.  Last year I played very good in Shanghai on hard courts.  This year I played very good in French Open, and I won.  You know, last year I did semifinals here, you know.  It's depend of the weeks, you know.  You can play good and it doesn't matter if it's clay or hard court.  
 
Q.  Are you ready for big titles on hard courts, do you think?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Why not?  I think I play a good finals.  
 
Q.  This was the first really, really hot day.  How tired did you get toward the end of the match?  Did it affect you? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, maybe I wasn't like fast in the first two set, you know.  And when you feel tired, maybe you serve a little bit worse than if you are fresh, you know.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT