WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  English questions for Juan Carlos Ferrero, please.


Q.  You missed some easy shots at the end.  Maybe you put too much pressure on you because you were thinking of the No. 1 in the world, no? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, no.  Maybe 'cause was a tiebreak.  But I don't remember that easy shots, no.  When? 

Q.  You put some backhand in the net at 5-all.  5-all, some unforced error, two or three unforced error. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  (Smiling).  No, was not the pression of the No. 1, was the pression maybe of the match.  I wanted to win, and maybe I miss because, you know, is difficult to play that moments.  He play better than me. 

Q.  There was a point at 4-all when there was a clear double bounce and the umpire didn't see it.  Obviously, Sebastien then turned around and gave you the point.  Were you, first of all, surprised the umpire didn't see it?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I was surprised because I went to hit the ball, you know, so relax because I thought that it was two bounce.  And I went and I hit like away, you know, because I thought it was two bounce.  And then for my surprise, was one bounce, and Grosjean say that it's two.  So, was very good for him  -- of him.

Q.  It's a nice gesture. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, yeah.  He is nice guy.  Is a nice guy, yeah. 

Q.  What made the difference today? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think I didn't serve as well as yesterday.  Yesterday, I served so good.  Maybe when I went 3-1 up on his serve, I had to win that game.  I lose a game and, you know, I had opportunity with Love-30, 5-4 for me.  And, you know, it was so difficult.  I lose little bit my confidence in my game, 6-5 on his serve.  I try to do my best, I did it.  The tiebreak was, again, the same as yesterday.  You know, the tiebreak, maybe the winner of the tiebreak is good because you feel more comfortable or you feel more aggressive.  And, you know, also the luck is important. 

Q.  Do you think the rain delay affected you at all? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Rain? 

Q.  Yes. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  No, no, no.  I don't think so.  Is the same for both players.  You know, is not  -- you can play better or worse, but not for the rain. 

Q.  How do you see Sebastien's chances in his next match?  Obviously, he plays Tim on Centre Court. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I think he has a lot of chances to win because he's return very well and, you know, he has a lot of potential in his shots, you know.  He has a very good forehand, very good serve, and, you know, when he's with confidence, he's difficult guy to win.

Q.  Did he surprise you just how well he's playing?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, because I saw the results from last two weeks, and he did the final and semifinal.  So since the beginning he plays on grass, he's playing good.  So is not surprise for me.

Q.  What part of your game do you think you have to improve to be better on the grass? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  On grass, I don't know exactly.  You know, I think I was playing very good this Wimbledon on grass.  And maybe today, if I had a little bit more lucky, if I won the match, you know, in quarterfinals, it will be another thing.  So I think I was playing so good, but Grosjean was playing better than me.  But I don't think that I have to improve a lot in one shot or in the movement or something, I think I was playing good. 

Q.  Do you think that one day you can win this tournament? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe.  I think so.  I think I can play very good here, because I did it.  I feel good on grass. 

Q.  Definitely you feel okay on grass?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, yeah.

Q.  That's new for you?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, that's new because the other years, I didn't feel so, so well.  But this Wimbledon, I feel well.  I feel great.  And I think in the future I can play good here. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT