WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Juan Carlos Ferrero.  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Do you think you'll be an unexpected hero next week, the man they don't think can go all the way on grass, but can turn the tables around?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't think so, but I am doing well.  You know, before coming here, I didn't expect a lot.  And I think the people also didn't expect a lot that I will be in the second week.  But I think I'm playing well.  I'm going to change the mind of the people.  
 
Q.  Do you feel the spotlight is off you, that you could be a surprise choice?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I hope so.  I'm sure, yeah.  Maybe, yes.  
 
Q.  How comfortable do you feel here at Wimbledon on the grass?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm comfortable because I'm playing good.  I'm playing from the base of the line.  I didn't do mistakes.  I'm serving good.  You know, the most important that I'm winning matches in grass.  So after Roland Garros, I was thinking that I come here, you know, I was thinking it's going to be difficult to play good on grass because I didn't have so much time to practicing.  But finally I'm playing good, and that's it. 
 
Q.  In your section of the draw, who do you fear most, who do you think could pose the most difficulties for you?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think I have Agassi, no?  I don't know exactly.  I have Agassi, Henman, and right now Grosjean. 
 
Q.  Which of the three do you think could be the most difficult?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Grosjean is going to be difficult.  But if I pass this round, Henman is going to be difficult because he's playing here in home with his ground.  I don't know.  Agassi could be in the semifinals, so semifinals for me would be very, very okay. 
 
Q.  Do you think the pressure would be off you if you were to play Henman because he is on his home ground?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe because he's on grass.  In Roland Garros, I had the pression when I played against him because I was on clay, I had to win.  Maybe it's going to change and he has to do right now.  
 
Q.  Do you think you would have been in the second week of Wimbledon had you not won the French Open?  Do you think winning the French Open has given you the extra motivation to play well here?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I tell the other day the more motivation to come here is to get the No.  1 or to be the No.  1.  So it's extra motivation to play after Agassi, if he wins, because I know I have to win.  
 
Q.  Do you think the confidence that you got from winning in Paris has been behind the fact that you've now reached the second week here for the first time?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think so.  I think so.  Yeah, it's possible.  Because when you win a Grand Slam, you take a lot of confidence in your game.  And also if you came to grass, it doesn't matter.  You think you are a biggest tennis player, and you can play well in every surface.  
 
Q.  It changes your attitude about yourself?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I did, yeah.  
 
Q.  Do you envy Henman, having massive support here, Agassi having phenomenal support in America, yet as a Spaniard, you don't have a major championship, so you never have a situation with thousands of Spanish fans shouting for you?  How much better of a player do you think you might be if you had that situation?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think I have a lot of fans here, not only Spanish.  The situation is okay because I was playing on Centre Court, was a lot of people supporting me.  Also today in Court  2 was the same.  It's nice.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT