BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2010
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. FERRERO/D. Koellerer
  6-3, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You started off the year quite well, especially the last month or so. How does it feel coming back to the U.S. after such a great run in South America?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Always is great to come back here. I never play my best tennis here in this tournament especially. But, you know, after playing such a good month last month, I came with a lot of confidence in myself and my game. 
 I know it's a change of surface, but I like to play on hardcourt, so I will try to give my best this time.

 Q. You're very good on clay, obviously, but you've also proven yourself on hardcourts. What adjustments do you make in your game between clay and hardcourts?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Movements are different, of course, and I think surface is pretty important -- not -- pretty important on clay court. I start to play very aggressive all the time like on clay courts. 
 You know, I think it's the same, but you have to play with a lot of confidence. That's the key, important key to play. That's it.

 Q. Not everybody can make that transition. What do you think it is about your game that works for you on hardcourts. 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I don't know. I'm trying to play aggressive with my forehand, doesn't matter if it's clay or hardcourt. I think it's a big important thing in my game, so I'm trying to do this right now. 

 Q. What do you have to do to be in the top 3 or 4? What do you have to do with your game?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: You know, win a lot of matches. (laughter.)
 It's tough to be there. I mean, there is these three or four guys right now that they are playing over there, and they are in the high level. 
 Right now I have a lot of points in front of me to be 3 or 4, so my goal for this year is try to be in the top 10 and then go step by step, try to, you know, get the confidence to be up there. 

 Q. I think your success in South America, you said it was because of your fitness. 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, sure.

 Q. What exactly did you change? What did you do to try to have better fitness?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: A lot of things. I mean, physically of course it's very important. And on clay I think is not that important than on hardcourts, because, you know, hardcourts are always tough to play. 
 But, you know, I feel pretty well right now physically. I don't have any pains, and I recovered of my knee injury that I have after Acapulco final. So, you know, I think it's the key to win a lot of matches, be very good physically and mentally, for sure.

 Q. Do you feel you'll be different this year going into the clay court season than the last few years?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I feel a little bit different mentally. I think I'm stronger than maybe three or four years ago. You know, it's one of the key I changed. So I want to keep following with that. 

 Q. What is your schedule? For the clay court tournaments, which ones will you play?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I'll play Monte-Carlo, Barcelona, Madrid.

 Q. Rome?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Rome, and Roland Garros.

 Q. If you look at earlier in your career, you're No. 1 and you won a Slam, you've been a Slam finalist, and compare it to now, what do you see different? Do you see a difference?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I don't like to compare. I think it's very different, the moment that I be No. 1 and this moment that I am sitting here. 
 So in my game I think right now I'm a little bit more, you know, more aggressive than before. Mostly with my backhand and forehand. Maybe before I was running a little bit more because physically I was a little bit more fresh. 
 Right now I have a lot of kilometers in myself, in my legs. But anyway, I feel right to do it again, and I'm going to try to. 

 Q. Davis Cup, do you hope to play that again at some point?
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yeah, definitely. Yes. I think last years I play two times Davis Cup, very important moments for me, and I played very important matches, so it give me a lot of confidence to be there again. I think Davis Cup helped me a little bit, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT