TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Good to be back in the final? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, you know, I'm really happy to be again in the final.  I think I played a really good week.  I played really good two matches against Mantilla and Gaudio.  These matches give me a lot of confidence to go through to the final.  I'm playing right now very solid  - no mistakes, so comfortable from the base of the line.  And, you know, waiting for the finalist. 

Q.  This game was quite short.  Yesterday was short.  Are you going to be in good physical shape tomorrow?  Is that going to count against your opponent?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, after these two matches that I spoke, I was little bit tired against Martin.  But yesterday and today, you know, was easy.  Of course it's better to me to go tomorrow best-of-five.  Nobody knows if I'm gonna play five sets, three sets, four sets, so of course it's better to play these two matches easier than the other ones.

Q.  You are using the word "solid" a lot.  What does "solid" mean for you?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It means no mistakes, you know.  Play solid, it's, you know...

Q.  I don't know. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I tell you, no mistakes, very comfortable from the base of the line, and doing everything - service, returns, you know, doing well everything.

Q.  Not dropping a set, but you lost your serve four times. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I know, but he returned very good.  He puts a lot of pressure because he goes so into the court to return.  It's not easy to serve against him.  I break his serve a lot of times as well, so was good.  Here in clay it's normal to lose the serve.  It's not very important. 

Q.  So what do you think for tomorrow:  Moya or Coria?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  For Spain, it's better Carlos, of course  - like last year.  But Carlos is playing good, and his forehand is very dangerous.  Coria also is very strong, Argentinian guy.  Today is gonna be I think a long match. 

Q.  If it's Carlos, do you think it will be the same game as last year or different?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know, because last year was easier than I thought.  It was only a few sets.  Normally when I play against him, if it's best-of-three, it's three sets.  If it's best-of-five, it's always five.  So last year was easier than I thought.  So tomorrow I know  -- I don't know what it's gonna be.

Q.  How would you compare your form this year to last year? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Last year I came from Estoril, played Estoril before Monte-Carlo.  You know, I lost in second round.  Just I played two matches before here.  Here is the first tournament in clay, so, you know, I think I am in a good form because I play really good matches, two matches with a lot of rhythm.  I think I am in the final with very good potential. 

Q.  Do you think you have a psychological advantage over Moya?  I think you played nine times; you've won seven. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I know, I know.  But you never know what is gonna happen the next match.  So I know that I won seven times against two, but is the final, you know.  You have a lot of motivation.  So you have to fight like if it be the first time.

Q.  Not talking about the clay, but just yesterday when you said you like the grass...

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah.

Q.  What kind of chance do you think you would have this year on the grass? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Nothing.  I'm not gonna practice more time.  I'm going to try to play from the base of the line, try to go to the net to finish the point.  I'm not gonna practice more time. 

Q.  Your thoughts on your form maybe at Wimbledon or something like that, what kind of a chance would you have? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Who knows?  Nalbandian, I think that he thought it was impossible to be in the final last year when he started the tournament because, normally, the players that we play from the base of the line, we don't have a lot of chances.  But, you know, Hewitt played from the base of the line and he won Wimbledon.  So I think I'm gonna play one more tournament, it's a Grand Slam, and I gonna try to be at my best.  I don't know if I gonna do first two or second, but I gonna try to give the same level as the other tournament. 

Q.  You realize that the balls are slower and the grass is a little higher?  Did you realize this in Wimbledon? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't feel so many changes. 

Q.  I'm going to ask exactly the opposite question.  Everybody struggles to go back on clay after the hard court season.  You had no tournament before this.  You are playing here, and you are playing great tennis.  How come?  Is it culture?  Is it tradition? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think is also confidence, you know.  In clay court, I have a lot of confidence.  It's easy to play good for me.  So when I feel very good physically, you know, and very good mentality, I go to the court and the tennis is coming along, you know.  So I did it.  I did it and, you know, I am in the final. 

Q.  So how did you prepare ahead of this tournament?  What was your preparation? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I played Davis Cup, and I played one match against Ancic.  I play the last week before, all the seven days, with Alex, Albert and Carlos and was very good practice.  That's it. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT