TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Is it a relief to get through that one, given that he served for the match against you? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, of course.  Given the difficulty of the match and being 5-4, a few points from losing the match, I was very pleased with that victory.

Q.  Do you think you handled the pressure better than he did? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't believe that pressure played a role in that match.  I believe that, actually, it was a match of a few details between us.  We were both playing at a very good level.  The only thing is from the moment I was able to play a longer forehand in the third set, I started to win.In the beginning I was playing my forehand a bit short, and that was the key.  That made the difference in the match. 

Q.  You just beat two players you've always struggled against: Felix and Gaston.  Do you think you've done the most difficult part of the tournament? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  We never know what can happen.  I won two difficult matches against Felix and Gaston, and this gave me a lot of confidence because it's the first tournament on clay and I won against some of the best players on clay.  Now I have to follow the same path and try to reach the finals. 

Q.  Against Mantilla and today, you lost the first set.  Does that have anything to do with your forehand?  Is it because you're not getting that going quickly enough? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, I believe today my forehand was better than against Mantilla.  The match started with a break, he raised his level.  But I don't believe it was really a matter of forehand, but just that when I was able to play my forehand better, I was winning.  That's the key. 

Q.  Everybody is talking about Rafael Nadal.  Were you surprised by the way he defeated Costa yesterday? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, I was a little bit surprised, but I believe he doesn't have the physical shape of a 16-year-old, but of a player like us.  He's very strong.  Also, he's able to last a long time on the court.  He can stand the physical effort.  Also, he's very eager to play, he's very confident, and he can play a great tournament  - he already did until now play a great tournament.  But beating Costa, champion of the French Open, means that he has a good future. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT