TMS MONTE CARLO
April 16, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  I think there are only two seeds left in your half of the draw.  You will probably be disappointed with anything less than a finals performance?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  At the most, to the finals (smiling).  But, anyway, if the seeded players lost, it's because they played against very good players.  So sometimes it's not enough just not to have seeded players to play against.  I'm sure things will be very difficult for me anyway.  
 
Q.  At the beginning of the clay court season it's always difficult to change surface and start again.  How do you feel your game is on clay at the moment?  Also, how did you play today?  How did you feel your game was today? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I practiced a lot for Davis Cup.  Before, I didn't have so much rhythm, but today I played well.  I made mistakes with my forehand, but I fought and I struggled until the end, and this is very important on clay.  So I think for the next matches, it's going to be okay.  
 
Q.  A tough opponent for you, Mantilla.  You've had some tough games, hard games in the past.
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, it's always difficult against him.  Every time we played, we went to three sets, and every time the score of the third set was 7-6 or 7-5.  He's a very tough player on hard courts, but even more on clay courts.  He's a very complete player.  
 
Q.  What are the aspects of your game that you are not so happy about and that you will have to work on in the next days or weeks? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  What I have to improve is my forehand.  I have trouble winning points on my forehand.  This is the area where I have to work.  I don't have much time to work on that before tomorrow, but I'll try to work on my forehand.  I need to be more refined in my forehand.  
 
Q.  You're going to be practicing before tomorrow again?  This evening or...? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, no.  No, no, no.  I'm going to practice a little bit tomorrow morning and then I'll play my match.  But a match is a good practice, too.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT