AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR: Questions for Juan Carlos. 


Q.  That was a little easier than your last match. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, of course.  Today I think I start very, very strong.  You know, I put all the winners on lines, you know, and I break him - his serve - very soon.  I think I play a really, really solid match.  Not in any moment I start to do mistakes and I start to serve bad, so I think I play a complete match. 

Q.  How do you feel you're situated at this stage coming into the second week with regards to making the final, winning the tournament?  How do you feel you're progressing?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Of course, I'm progressing.  You know, I'm in the second week.  I'm in the quarterfinals.  First time that I'm here in the quarterfinals.  So I'm feeling so good.  You know, physically I start to improve my leg.  Today I didn't feel pain, so I'm really happy for that.  Is more important physically I'm really well and I improving for the next match.  I'm in the quarterfinals.  I'm seeing in the next match against Ferreira or Sargsian.  We'll see what happens in the next match.  If I play like today or the other days, I think I have also chances to win.

Q.  This is the first Grand Slam, outside the French, you actually got to this stage.  Does that carry any sort of special significance, given a different surface?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I know is the first time I'm in quarterfinals out to the Roland Garros.  But I think I play also good in clay court and also good in hard court.  Only I knew it, that I have to play and improving.  Of course, is coming the results.  You see in that moment is coming the results.  I'm going to try to give my best in the next and also the US Open in the States, because also in hard court.  We'll see what happens.  But I know that I can play very good, like here. 

Q.  US and here are both hard courts.  Do you think one of them might be a little bit easier to win on, that one may suit your game more? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, because it's like the same.  It's like the same.  Maybe it's a little faster or a little slower, but it's like the same.  So is not depend of the surface; it depend of me.  In Sydney last week, two weeks ago, was faster than here, and I play final.  I don't care is a little bit faster than here.  It's okay for me.

Q.  Do you think the surface on the center court is faster than it is on Vodafone Arena court?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  The people is telling this? 

Q.  That seems to be the opinion of some players. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, no, I don't feel.  I just play one more match on center court.  I feel very good in the Vodafone court.  I play like all my matches there.  You know, I'm going to see.  When I play in the center court, I didn't feel faster that the other ones.

Q.  Have you played on Rod Laver yet?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, one match, the second match.  And I play really good, so I didn't feel faster.

Q.  Have you been watching any of the other top two seeds on your days off?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Some matches.  I watch Sargsian-Philippoussis, Hewitt just one set yesterday, some Spanish guys I was watching.  Not so much.  The day off is to be relax.

Q.  Can I ask your opinion on how you think Hewitt is playing?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Hewitt is playing his line.  I think he didn't do mistakes.  He's very motivated because he's playing in his house.  He's playing really good.  We have to see in the next round against Younes El Aynaoui.  Younes El Aynaoui is a really good, experienced guy.  Always he wins to El Aynaoui, but in four, fifth sets.  Is not going to be easy for him, I think. 

Q.  Do you think there's one player that should be favored at the moment?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't think so.  I don't think so.  I don't think so.  I know that Agassi and Hewitt won very easy.  Also me, I won very easy today.  But I think there is no favorite here in Australia right now. 

Q.  Why is that?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Why?  Because the No.  1, No. 2, No.  3, No.  4, there is no difference between us.  I think I will play at the same level when we play good.  There is no more the difference.  It's my opinion.

Q.  The injury, is it in the hip?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  The abductor was the injury.

Q.  Where is that?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  In the leg here.  But is improving, is okay now.

Q.  Do you need treatment?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I take antiinflammatories, massage, ultrasound.  Is not so important. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT