AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Juan Carlos.  
 
 
Q.  How difficult was that match for you? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You can see the score.  Was very difficult for me.  You know, I think Santoro, you never know which shot he going to hit.  It's very difficult to play against him because, you know, he has a different shot every time, and he use every shot all the time.  But, you know, all the time I won against him, always in three sets when it's the best-of-three.  Right now I win in five, so always is difficult to play against Santoro, always.  
 
Q.  At a time in the match you looked very frustrated. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Sometimes. 
 
Q.  What made you stay in the match?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I think I stayed very good in the match in the fourth and in the fifth.  You know, in the first three set, I felt some pain in my abductor because I had a little bit problems there.  You know, I was more pain in my abductor than the court.  It was because of this I was a little frustrate all the time when I lose the first and the third.  But right now I'm okay, and I feel better in the fourth and the fifth, I start to play very good, and also I serve unbelievable in the fifth.  I think it was the key.  I serve very good.  I won very easy all my service in the fifth set.  You know, I was very close all the time to try to break his serve.  
 
Q.  Do you know Mario Ancic?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I never play against him.  I only saw him against Federer when he played in Wimbledon.  I saw some part of the match of today against Luzcak.  I saw that he has a very good serve, no mistakes from the base of the line, and he goes a lot of times to the net, so is going to be tough. 
 
Q.  Did you feel it was unfair to lose the first set?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  No, no, no.  The match was so long, you know, I have so many times to come back, you know, to try to play good.  I never feel this. 
 
Q.  How is your leg now?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Is okay.  Is okay.  Is okay because I take some antiinflammatory before the match.  I didn't feel the pain.  I feel a little bit in the first set, but when I (inaudible), I still playing in the match, I start to feel better and better.  Finally I finish the match without pain. 
 
Q.  When did it start to hurt you?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  After the match, in the last game against Lisnard, I felt a little bit of pain in my abductor.  I tried to be better and better in these two days before.  But I start the match with some pain.  With the (inaudible), antiinflammatory, ultrasound and ice, I could finish the match without pain.  So now I think is okay.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT