adidas International
January 9, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Juan Carlos, please. 


Q.  Are you approaching somewhere near the form that you displayed in the Tennis Masters Cup final? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Is not easy to say, but, you know, was a different time.  There was finish a year, you know, play in the final.  Here, today, I think I play high level, you know.  I think I had to play a bit aggressive against him, because he is also very aggressive, and he's coming to win a tournament in Chennai.  But anyway, I think I can't compare to, you know, the final and here, the level, you know, is more or less. 

Q.  By the time the second week of the Australian Open comes, do you think you will be at the same level? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know, I don't know.  Is depend of the day.  The tennis is completely different all the days, you know.  Maybe tomorrow with Schuettler I go to the court and I play bad and I lose.  So I don't know if the second week I will be very good, you know.  But only I know if tomorrow I'm gonna play semifinals.  If I go in this way, of course I'm gonna be very good for the first week in Australia, because I don't know if I'm gonna be in the second.  It's not easy.

Q.  Did you surprise yourself with the quality of your game today a little bit?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  A little bit, a little bit.  Because is the third match of the year, you know, and I needed some rhythm, some rhythm to play like this.  I think, you know, I think also is the motivation.  I play against Srichaphan.  He came to win a tournament.  I had to play very good.  I go to the court with a lot of motivation and play very good. 

Q.  You've played three matches now.  The second was better than the first.  Today was a better than the second match.

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Tomorrow I don't think is gonna be better (laughing).  But I don't know, if I play in the same level, I think I have many chance to win. 

Q.  You were obviously very enthusiastic and very keen out there, too.  You were moving very well, serving very well. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, I know, I did very well everything, you know.  I serve very good and I move very well, you know, very fast.  I play a really good, solid match, very solid match.

Q.  Does your motivation have something to do with the fact that the first day you said that if you want to be No. 1, you have to play well on hard courts, play well here because you didn't play last year?  Does that have something to do with it?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Maybe, yes.  Because I know if I play good here, I can go up to the No. 1, you know, I can be close to the No. 1.  So I have to play very good here.  Marat retired today, and I won today, so maybe I'm closer than the No. 3.  So I go step by step.  But I know if I play good here in this month, I have many chances to go up. 

Q.  A lot of players have been saying that the end of the season is too short, they've had trouble just getting started this year.  You had to play up until the end of the season.  You started very well.  Why? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Is difficult like all the players.  Is not easy to be only one month to rest, you know?  Is not to rest because you have to practice all the day, you have to prepare physically, mentally, everything.  So is not easy, but you have to do because the tennis right now is like this.  You have to start very, very soon and you have to finish very late. 

Q.  As you say, anything can happen tomorrow. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yep. 

Q.  Tennis is like that.  But have you ever come into a season more excited about your prospects than you seem to be this time?  Is this the best you have ever felt coming into the start of a year? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, it is.  Because last year I didn't play because the injury, and two years ago I played the exhibition in the Kooyong.  So I never play a tournament.  So is the best start of my life. 

Q.  Were you surprised when you heard that Safin had pulled out? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Sometimes happen, you know.  I didn't know.  Only I know that yesterday he retired from the doubles and today, you know, I know that he had a problem in his shoulder.  So it's a surprise, of course.  But we knew that he has a problem. 

Q.  Were you disappointed not to be able to play him, to be playing a player of that stature, one and two seeds?  It gives you a good idea of where you are for Melbourne.

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You know, I have a lot of time to play against him in the whole year, so doesn't matter. 

Q.  Would you still say that Lleyton is favorite to win the Australian Open? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  He's the No. 1, so he has to be the favorite.  For me, if I play good, I am the favorite because I know that if I am play very good against him I can win him.  But of course everybody know that he's the No. 1 and he has a good quality, you know, and he has a lot of chances to win. 

Q.  Why do you think so many of the seeded players have fallen out here so quickly?  I think you're the only one left in the men's draw. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  We have the same problems in the whole year because all the players, you know, doesn't matter the ranking  - No. 1, No. 2, No. 80  - you know, everybody play very good in the men's and it's very difficult to play against anybody.  So it doesn't matter, the seed.  You have to play good.  And if you play good, of course if you are No. 3 you are going to win.  If you are 3, it's because you are a little bit best of the other ones. 

Q.  Would you think it's only natural that players sometimes take more care of themselves in a week before a Grand Slam because they obviously want to be fully fit for a Slam?  If they feel some twinge of whatever pain in a week like this, warning bells ring. 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I know, but if you do something good like this week, semifinals, final, champion, you did it, you go to Australian winning a tournament, with a lot of confidence.  And we'll see what's happen there.  But you won a tournament.  For mentality, it's really good.  So you won a tournament, it's because you are playing good.  If you go to Australian playing good, you have a lot of chances to win.  Maybe you are tired because you play five matches, but, you know, you are in a Grand Slam and you are very motivated and doesn't matter if you are a little bit tired, you're gonna play good. 

Q.  In between the Tennis Masters Cup and Sydney, did you have a total break from tennis?  Didn't pick up a racquet for maybe how long? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  The first two weeks of December I did a lot of physically, you know, with maybe one hour, one hour and a half of tennis.  Then the last two weeks of December I played like three hours of tennis and one hour and a half physically. 

Q.  You practiced on hard courts, I suppose, in Spain?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yes, yes. 

Q.  Was it similar to this, Rebound Ace?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Is the same, is the same.  Is not exactly fast, exactly fast, but it's like the same.  Is the same name. 

Q.  Is that in Barcelona you practice? 

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, no, I practice in Villena.  It's Alicante, close to Valencia.  You know Valencia? 

Q.  Yes, of course.

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Like one hour by car. 

Q.  Private club?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It's academy, my academy.  It's with my name, so...

Q.  So you don't have problems getting courts?

JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No, of course not (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT