adidas International
January 8, 2003
Juan Carlos Ferrero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Juan Carlos, please.  
 
 
Q.  Hot enough for you today?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Yeah, was enough.  With this hot, it's very difficult to play, but I think I played only one hour and 15 minutes.  You know, I felt the wind in the court, was not easy to play.  But I think I played a really good match.  
 
Q.  Can you compare the heat you got when you were in Spain and the heat here?  Is it totally different?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  It's totally different because the weather in Spain now, it's very cold.  
 
Q.  No, but the summer in Spain and the summer here.
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Ah, the summer in Spain.  The summer where I am in Spain, it's very dry.  Here, it's bit humid.  So it's very different.  But, you know, it's tough to play here.  But it's different, of course.  
 
Q.  What was it like being on Court 2?  You're a top player, you're playing a Russian Davis Cup hero.  You don't make it on to Centre Court.
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I know, but, you know, the only difference I think was the wind.  The court, it's the same dimensions, you know, the same meters.  But, you know, if they put in Court 2, I have to play in Court 2, you know.  Doesn't matter, so...  I had to play good, and I did it.  That's it.  
 
Q.  Do you think you deserve better? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  You have to say to him, not to me.  I'm not gonna go to tell something.  I'm tired of this.  
 
Q.  Do you think that you played better than the first round, or the same level?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I had more rhythm maybe.  It was a different player, and every match is different.  So I think the first match the other day was very difficult because was the first match, and he play really good.  Today, maybe Youzhny, he didn't play his high level because the wind, because me, because I don't know why.  But I think I play good, and is tennis. 
 
Q.  What's your record like against Mirnyi or Srichaphan?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I didn't play against Mirnyi.  I played against Srichaphan two times, and I won one and he won one.  So we'll see. 
 
Q.  What do you think of the way he plays? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  He's playing very good.  He won tournament last week, and he finish the year last year really, really good  - really, really solid.  He's No. 15 in the world right now.  I think he is with a lot of confidence because he goes up very fast.  So I think he's a difficult player, like not a lot of players, so you have to play.  
 
Q.  When you play on a surface like this, which is different than clay, what part of your game do you change to adapt?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I'm trying to not change anything, you know, because I play very aggressive in clay and in hard court.  So I try to play the same tennis.  
 
Q.  Lleyton Hewitt hasn't been playing very well. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Where, in last week?  
 
Q.  Yes.  I was wondering if it's been tough for you to recover from the Tennis Masters. 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Not now.  Some days maybe you remember something, because I had the opportunity to win.  But, you know, I am in a new year, I am in a new situation, so I am going to think in right now.  
 
Q.  I mean physically.  Physically, is it hard to come back so soon? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  No.  No, no, no.  I am very young, so I have to do.  
 
Q.  So you think you had time enough to rest, to recover, to relax? 
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  Is not so much time, one month.  But, you know, the tennis right now is like this and we have to start very soon, so we have to do.  We gonna try to put later, but, you know, we are working on this.  But for the moment, it's not so good. 
 
Q.  Do you think if you had a longer break that the tennis players would do what the golfers have done and play exhibitions in the free weeks?
 
JUAN CARLOS FERRERO:  I don't know, because I never do.  So maybe some day, but I don't know.  I can't tell you right now.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT