VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 30, 2015
Paige MacKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How were the nerves on the first tee today?
PAIGE MacKENZIE:   You know, honestly on the tee it was fine.   I really struggled a bit on the greens, kind of nervous hands the first couple putts, and it showed.   I bogeyed those holes.   But I somehow figured it out, kind of got it turned around.   I was really pleased with how I finished the last, whatever, 14.

Q.   I was going to say that's a pretty good sign. 
PAIGE MacKENZIE:   Yeah.

Q.   You know you've got to get some nerves out and some rust off. 
PAIGE MacKENZIE:   Yeah, it was never going to be perfect, but the fact that I could kind of recover from imperfect golf was encouraging, I was really pleased with it.

Q.   Overall how is it to be back out today?
PAIGE MacKENZIE:   So nice.   It's just fun.   You know, especially the back nine where I was actually hitting good shots and playing good golf.   It's fun.   I don't know how else to describe it.   I really love playing competitive golf.

Q.   How much did you miss this?   Obviously you have to watch it‑‑
PAIGE MacKENZIE:   Yeah, but it's‑‑ you know, you don't allow yourself that kind of grieving, you know, because it's not healthy, so I tried to keep a good attitude about it and enjoyed the time ahead and hoped one day, but to experience it again and to realize how much I do enjoy it, it's nice. 

Q.   Kind of verifies your decision to come back?
PAIGE MacKENZIE:   Yeah, absolutely, absolutely.   I wouldn't just walk away without giving it a go.   I mean, I still have status.

Q.   Have to try. 
PAIGE MacKENZIE:   Yeah I want to go out on my own terms.   I don't want to go out because I'm injured, so I'm glad I have the opportunity to do that.

Q.   Plan for tomorrow?
PAIGE MacKENZIE:   I'm going to work on my drives a little bit.   I was a little squirrelly off the tee on a couple of shots, and then kind of come up with a better strategy on my putting.   Like I said, the second nine and the last 11 holes or so, I really felt much better about it, so as long as I can figure out a strategy to keep my left hand off the club so it doesn't get all squirrelly, then I'll be fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT