U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1996
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Todd, how did you feel about your play today?
 
 TODD MARTIN: I felt good. I played very well the first couple sets and took play to
him. I also don't think that he was real comfortable out there for the first couple sets.
Third set, first few games I might have had a few chances to maybe get something going. He
just kept -- he started slapping the ball, going in, took me out of my rhythm a little
bit. I played a couple of his volleys at 4-5 in the third. After that, I was pretty
comfortable. 
 
Q. Is it hard to maintain the kind of rhythm you had in those first two sets through
the whole tournament?
 
 TODD MARTIN: It was just a matter of keeping your focus, going after it. I did a good
job of keeping my focus on my serve. Played a few loose points on his serve through the
bulk of the set. Like I said, it just came back to haunt me at 4-5. 
 
Q. Todd, has there been any residue at all on this whole seeding thing or is it
completely gone and now everybody, including yourself, is thinking tennis, only tennis?
 
 TODD MARTIN: I think everybody was thinking tennis on Sunday also. That is the reason
we're all here. I think the players felt like there was a point to be made and they made
it. Now it's our job -- we did what we did to avoid more players withdrawing. Now we've
got an event on our hands and I think we're all excited to have a chance to compete for
the championship. There's still thought. We're not a bunch of idiots that say one thing
one day and forget about it the next. I think everybody's primary focus right now is the
tennis. 
 
Q. Again, it may be something that you address well after the tournament is over. Is
there any thought among the players of doing anything to try and make sure this doesn't
happen again, or you've made your statement and hope for the best?
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I think we made our statement publicly, and now it's up to what we
can do in a board room or whatever, try to get things done that way. 
 
Q. Todd, is there sort of a constant evaluating and reevaluating for an elite tennis
player to be the best that you can be, be 100 percent tennis, can't have a real life? Is
there always a balancing act going on there? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, unless I'm mistaken, I think there's a balancing act in anybody's
life. It's important -- I've been taught since I was a little kid to be well-rounded. I
think that's what our goal is. Of course, we want to be the best tennis player we can be,
but we don't want to sacrifice the human beings that we are in order to accomplish that. 
 
Q. Because tennis, unlike my life or a lot of other lives, always has scores, seedings
and rankings and all that stuff, and there are disappointments sometimes when people don't
win championships or whatever, is it hard to fight against that? If you lose a big match,
you say, "That's it, I've got to get this done right," that kind of thing?
 
 TODD MARTIN: When you don't do your job well - which oftentimes losing big matches,
that's what it means - that's inspiration right there to do it better. I don't think
there's any need for that to take away from the rest of your life. 
 
Q. Todd, I couldn't see your reaction, couldn't really tell your reaction, on one of
the last points where he swished through the overhead and then dinked it over. It
obviously had crowd appeal, but I couldn't tell how you felt about it.
 
 TODD MARTIN: I wasn't in the crowd. He's a flashy player, charismatic. I've never
played him before, never really spent any time with him before. Took me off guard, caught
me off guard. At first it didn't really flatter me too much, but probably wouldn't have
made me too upset had I won the point. It's just frustration when you're out there putting
in your hundred percent effort and something like that happens, although it's an effective
play, it just doesn't seem -- it's not at all like what you're used to. 
 
Q. It also seemed like you might have been frustrated you almost got the return.
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I got there, absolutely. Put a brick hand on it. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT