RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 15, 1996
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD MARTIN: Yeah, I felt really comfortable early. I served very well from the beginning and over the past week I haven't served well at all in practice or in my matches and I had, not necessarily opportunities, but chances to make some opportunities early in the first set on his serve. He played some good points to get out of those situations and then at 4-5 on his serve, I just played a solid game; changed a few things up and he made a couple of errors and I hit a couple of good shots. 

TODD MARTIN: I felt much better today. This is the best I have felt since I have been back. Even though I probably played a little bit better against Michael Joyce last week in Cincinnati in the first round, but I didn't necessarily feel as comfortable on the court and feel as in control of what I was doing as I did today. 

TODD MARTIN: Well, I didn't practice at all until like the Wednesday before the Olympics and that is when the whole -- that is when Pete pulled out. There was a chance that I might end up filling his spot, so I figured if I am going to play the Olympics, I don't want to go fat and slow. I'd rather just go thin and slow, so I went out and practiced some with Mal; getting him ready for the Olympics; just went out for a really light hit and get some workouts in, and then I started the following Monday. So I practiced for two straight weeks getting prepared for Cincinnati, but not necessarily everyday. I had a lot of other things that I was doing up in Michigan and some in Atlanta as well, so... And I played golf. 

TODD MARTIN: Well, I was telling Tim in a postmatch interview that I don't think I did -- I think 95% of us don't know what happened last night exactly. We know that which was on Sports Center and maybe what a few guys who saw it, hearsay type things. It is not my position to say whether he deserved it or not, but it is been a situation that the Tour has had to deal with for a while now and he -- Andre has had a few violations and there is a point where you have to say enough is enough and hopefully things on the Tour will keep being that way. I think it is a gentleman's game and if you are not going to behave like one, then you should be penalized. 

TODD MARTIN: I think that is just what I said. I mean, without going into specifics and saying if a guy touches his racket to the ground give him a warning - I think there needs to be stricter guidelines. I mean, this is a gentleman's game. That is all I need to say and if -- I don't think too many people think that cussing and throwing the rackets is gentlemanly. 

TODD MARTIN: Thanks. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT