GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 1996
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is this your first tournament since Wimbledon?

TODD MARTIN: Yes.

Q. Was that planned, have any injury or anything else?

TODD MARTIN: No, I was playing.

Q. You won a match on Monday; is that correct?

TODD MARTIN: Yes.

Q. As far as the preparation for the Open, this, of course, isn't today your most
optimum, but do you feel that you are at all getting ready for the Open?

TODD MARTIN: What is your question again?

Q. Sorry. Losing today was not what you planned, but is preparation -- considering you
had a break, is it preparation for the Open, heading two weeks into it (inaudible)?

TODD MARTIN: I have got two more tournaments before the Open and by no means I am happy
with today, but like I said, there is two more tournaments. I have got plenty of time to
practice and it is just disappointing because you want to do well whenever you go out on
the court and today I didn't do well. 

Q. Would there be any lapses a little bit from the fact that you did have a layoff --
looked like you had him up a break there in the third set, kind of took away -- you had
the doublefault --

TODD MARTIN: Well, you know, there is a lot that makes a match. I had my opportunities
in the third set -- or -- yeah, and I had, I guess, 3-1 serving and then also at 3-4, I
was up 15-40 on his serve and you are going to have your opportunities and sometimes they
don't necessarily fall your way. I don't necessarily think that it was due to the fact
that I haven't been playing. I think he played a pretty good game at 3-1 and I just didn't
hit -- didn't come up with the good serve when I needed to, but that happens whether you
have been playing every week or four, five weeks or you haven't been playing. I think
just, you know, just the way the cookie crumbles and today it wasn't my day.

Q. What about the layoff, has that (inaudible)?

TODD MARTIN: I think the most important thing from my layoff, it is difficult to
prepare yourself for the heat and for -- just for all the conditions that you are going to
confront over the next three weeks, four weeks, and that was difficult, but I felt like I
hit the ball fine. I just didn't start off very quickly. Got broken in the first game of
the match and then I played pretty solidly from there and then I think I ran out of gas a
little bit in the third set. 

Q. You hit the top 10 a couple of years back and what is the toughest part in trying to
maintain a position that high?

TODD MARTIN: There is no conscious effort to maintain a position. I mean, you go out
and you do your job. If you do your job well, maybe you are in the top 10, maybe top 20.
If you don't do your job well, then you are not. What you have to do is just focus going
out everyday and doing what needs to be done and trying to take the most out of every
experience you have, whether it be good or bad.

Q. (Inaudible.)

TODD MARTIN: Well, I think the realist in me is going to say, well, you just got to
work yourself into shape this summer because although I feel like I am in good shape, it
is still a shock to the system when you are play in conditions as extreme as these. I
think I need to start -- well, not start. I need to improve on playing with the heat and
being able to close out matches when I had opportunities like I did today and, you know,
just continue to keep my perspective broad and not, you know, not get hung up on little
things and try to improve everything and go from there. It is a long year and hopefully a
long career, so I don't need to worry about -- worry myself about each time I lose. It is
not fun, but just take what you can from it and go.

Q. Did you feel like after that time at Wimbledon, you had a good run there and you had
some tough matches, was that a good time for you to break away from tennis and
(inaudible)--

TODD MARTIN: It is rarely not a good time to take a break. We are so busy throughout
the year that any break, whether it be planned or not planned, usually ends up helping,
and I feel much more eager to be out here and play then if I would have started the summer
a few weeks ago and have to get going, but it doesn't necessarily always show instant
dividends. It is going to maybe, or hopefully, help me down the road.

Q. Will you stay and prepare here or will you go on to Indy?

TODD MARTIN: I will go on to Indy in a couple of days. There is no hurry for me to get
there. I won't play 'til probably Tuesday or Wednesday. I don't think the conditions will
be too much different.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT