U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1995
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You had some opportunities. Did you feel like you just didn't capitalize on them or
did Pete raise his games at those times?
 
 TODD MARTIN: I think it is a little bit of both. I think it is always a little bit of
both. It is hard when even you sort of have a pretty good idea of where the serve is
coming and it is still eating you up and that is just -- it gets to be a bit demoralizing,
and I just didn't deal with his serve all that well tonight. 
 
Q. Do you think anybody can from here on?
 
 TODD MARTIN: Sure, I think -- he served poorly in the first set and I didn't put a ball
in play and unfortunately, for me, I served well in the first, I was able to hang in there
until the breaker, but I think if I make him volley a few more times or make him hit a few
more balls early in the first set, I do have a chance to hit some secondhand returns, then
I think it is a different match, but I just wasn't able to do that tonight. 
 
Q. That line call in the set point stay with you in the first set, that down the line
pass?
 
 TODD MARTIN: No, no, geez, I couldn't see it. I just knew I hit it really well. The
flight of the ball that I saw was in the whole way, but my momentum was going quite a bit
left, so the ball usually tends to fly a little bit that way too and when I heard that it
was out, I didn't -- I mean, I was a little bit shocked at first because I thought -- I
didn't hear anything and I thought it hit it in, but both of the lineswomen and the umpire
said it was - said it was out, so, I got to go with that, if I didn't see it. 
 
Q. Do you think we are seeing Pete at his best or something close to that?
 
 TODD MARTIN: I will tell you, Pete played awfully well tonight other than his first
serve being off a little bit in the first set, which, with his second serve, doesn't
really hurt him too much a lot, and he was hitting his groundstrokes better than I have
seen him hit them against me, at least, and he was a little bit more aggressive with his
backhand than usual and I think that is always going to pay off for him. 
 
Q. Who do you think is going to win this tournament, Todd, can you look that far ahead
or are you still a little bit --
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, geez, I think it is up in the air a little bit. I think just like
everybody else, Andre and Pete being the favorites, but oh, with guys like Korda and
Becker and Chang and Courier, I mean, all of them have a good chance, but I would have to
say that Andre and Pete would have the best chance and I would think that if Pete serves
awfully well and is able to maintain that, I think he has got a great chance because he
will be, although Andre returns better than anybody, I think that he would end up being in
a lot more games than on Andre's serve than Andre on his serve. 
 
Q. Do you think Byron Black has a chance against him?
 
 TODD MARTIN: I think Byron returns almost as well as anybody and that is one of the
aspects -- one of the characteristics that you need to be able to do well against Pete,
but I think Pete is going to be in pretty much all of Byron's service games, and that is
just an uphill climb. I think -- I am not ruling out the possibility, but I would
definitely expect to see Pete win the match. 
 
Q. Todd, how do you feel about your year on the whole; do you feel good about it?
 
 TODD MARTIN: I feel like I have hit a couple of dips in the season and that is to be
expected. I haven't had the high points that I did last year. Last year I was consistently
very good in the Grand Slams and this year I have been consistently very average,
mediocre, and I can't complain. I feel like I have played some pretty good tennis, but I
have played that good tennis against the guys I should beat and haven't come out and
played at my best against the guys that are the opportunity matches. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you are sort of plateauing a little and that you need to have
another breakthrough or --
 
 TODD MARTIN: I don't think it is much more than some better timing and I have gone out
in the matches I have won this week and played extremely well and very focused and tonight
although I didn't feel like I was playing very well, I hung in there and I gave myself a
few opportunities to get back in the match. The problem is guys like Pete are the ones
that are tough to come back against. You got to jump on them early and that didn't happen
tonight. I feel like I am playing well. It is just --, you know, few breaks here and
there.  
 
Q. What do you think your chances are any thoughts about Davis Cup?
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well,. I would hope that Andre and Pete are both going. I am not positive
if that has happened or not, but obviously nobody has the right to take a spot away from
either one of them. So that leaves the Double P or some doubles, Double P being practice
partner, although I'd do that, I wouldn't enjoy that quite as much as being out on the
court, so hopefully I will have a chance to play some doubles. I know I am in the running
and we will see what Mr. Gullikson says the end of this week. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT