U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Any great pleasure beating a former champion?
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I am not really sure if that is the pleasure. I think the pleasure
is beating Mats and I mean, not in any kind of vendetta way, but he is a great player and
to be able to come out and sweat it out through the first set not playing very well and
then start to feel comfortable out there and play well, then it was very pleasing for me. 
 
Q. Well, he was not playing well. He just seemed -- you just seemed on. Were you happy
with your own play?
 
 TODD MARTIN: Oh, he -- geez, the first set we -- we came out and we both played about
as bad as we could have, and a little bit is to do with I think both of us were a little
nervous; not really ready to go for it and do what it takes to win a match like that. It
was really windy. Came close to whiffing a couple of balls and Mats had some trouble with
his contacts to. It is just a strange -- it is a strange place out there. If there is any
wind in the world, it is going to find that stadium court. 
 
Q. What did you get nervous about?
 
 TODD MARTIN: Oh geez, plenty of things. Been a while since I have played on that court,
about a year; playing a former champion, I am playing a great player, yeah. I am playing
-- I get tight every time I go out on the court. I think if you are not nervous, you are
not ready to play. Sitting around all day long, I think we both got a little anxious and
came out and just weren't ready to do the work that was needed. 
 
Q. How do you feel about your chances here, Todd?
 
 TODD MARTIN: Pretty good. I feel the summer has gone fairly well for me and I think I
have played well. I have lost a couple of close matches and I feel like right now I am
playing better than I was earlier in the summer. It is going to take a lot of good timing.
Don't want to waste any of my good days on my days off, so just sort of store it up and
hopefully it will -- my goods will come with me. 
 
Q. How many Opens have you been to now?
 
 TODD MARTIN: This is my 6th. 
 
Q. Have you sort of adjusted to the -- I know the answer -- how have you adjusted to
sort of New York, the Open and just the atmosphere? Some guys go out on the island. What
do you do?
 
 TODD MARTIN: I have always stayed in the city. I think it is the most exciting 2 1/2
weeks for me every year. A lot of it has to do with this site and coming out and getting
the wind blown around and swinging them in and hearing people get on your case in the
stands or support your cause. Then toughen it out in the players' lounge and getting the
bus home and then experiencing what New York is all about when I get back to the city;
walk around; go to dinner, as boring as I can be, this city still keeps me on my toes. It
is still exciting. 
 
Q. What do you do? Do you do anything during the two weeks or do you try and keep the
distraction to a minimum or are you just here to soak up as much New York as possible or
what?
 
 TODD MARTIN: I probably stay a little too close to the vicinity of where I am staying;
really take some time to walk around and do some things, you know, you don't need to do
anything to have fun in the city. Just walk around; look at people and get a slice of
pizza here and there and walk a little farther and stop and get another slice. It is
exciting and really my main objective is to avoid the groupies that are hanging around in
the players' lounge. 
 
Q. Sounds as if you are one of the few people who actually really enjoy this event
would you --
 
 TODD MARTIN: Listen, this is the U.S. Championships. If you can't enjoy that as an
American, and as a fairly young aspiring player, I don't know what you can enjoy. It is a
thrill. 
 
Q. You have to play next against Mauricio Hadad from Columbia. Do you know anything
about him?
 
 TODD MARTIN: I know he is short and he is fast and he has got a sweet backhand and I
didn't know I had to play him. 
 
Q. When did you find out about this?
 
 TODD MARTIN: You just told me. But ^ Mauricio, we played, I think three years ago in
Washington D.C. and first time I had ever seen him and I went out and I was so ignorant of
how good he was I played really well and I beat him, but he is one of the more talented
guys out there and he will put some balls in some awkward places for me to hit and
hopefully I will just be able to cover the net as well as I did today and serve a little
better hopefully. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT