THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 18, 1995
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  How much of it did you feel was you tonight and how much
of it was he responsible for the result?

 TODD MARTIN:  Well, I really think Todd played great and when
your opponent plays great, that makes you have to make you play
better.  And I didn't play better.  He kept forcing me to come
up with better and better shots and do more and more with the
ball and I never did that nor did I ever cause him any grief to
where he was missing.  So my answer is, he played great, and unfortunately,
I wasn't able to play -- raise the level of my play enough to
-- well, at least get through that second set.

 Q.  Do you believe in momentum, that if it had gotten out
of a tiebreaker you might have --

 TODD MARTIN:  I think if I had won the tiebreaker I am certainly
in charge of the match, yeah.  He had some opportunities in the
second and -- especially, after losing the first matchpoint, I
felt like I was in pretty good shape.  He just played some good
points and you can't really -- I can't really complain too much
about that; just getting to the point where I am at 6-All in the
second set tiebreaker just to stay in the match, I think nine
times out of ten, hopefully I do not put myself into that position,
but tonight I was.

 Q.  Any particular reason why you couldn't raise your game
tonight?

 TODD MARTIN:  I don't have the reason.  I am sure there are plenty
of reasons.  The reason is not known by me.  Do you know?  If
you do, tell me.

 Q.  What is next on your agenda?

 TODD MARTIN:  Doubles tomorrow at fifth match.  After that, I
have got a few weeks off until my next -- well, after that we
are going to play again on Wednesday, Monday or Tuesday, one of
those days, hopefully.

 Q.  Next tournament?

 TODD MARTIN:  My next singles event is Bermuda in a few weeks,
so I am going to head back up to Michigan and spend some time
with my folks and do a fund raiser for the National Junior Tennis
Chapter up there.

 Q.  Didn't the fact that you are now sort of a top 10 status
type player, is this sort of thing that shouldn't happen, do you
think -- is this kind of a let-down --

 TODD MARTIN:  Well, like I said, I really think he played great
and -- geez, three or four years ago when he was playing very
well, he was doing this fairly often, I think, beating some of
the better players, this is, by far, the best I have seen him
play in a long time.  I don't think it was too much a let-down,
but, you know, there is certain things that didn't work out there
that I usually can rely on and a that gets you down within even
more than just being down.  When your bread and butter doesn't
work and your opponent seems to be playing very well, things really
start to look blue.

 Q.  How do you assess your confidence level right now?

 TODD MARTIN:  Well, my confidence level, I think, is fairly high.
 I played poorly tonight, but I felt like in the past few weeks
I have played pretty well.  I have never played well here before
and maybe it is the conditions; maybe it is me, I don't know.
But my confidence level, is, I think, fairly high.  It is not
as high as I'd like it to be, but I think in order for that to
happen, I need to start enjoying myself a little bit more and
being -- be a little bit more willing to do the work to get through
these tough first round matches instead of going out and letting
myself get into a hole like today.  I have done a pretty good
job of it so far this year not starting tournaments poorly, but
this one I can't say the same about.

 Q.  Is doubles going to be a good way to relax...

 TODD MARTIN:  Doubles will be fun.  I am looking forward to it,
but it's going to be hard to sit around here this week and only
play doubles.  These nine events that the ATP has, Super 9, they
are fun events to look forward to and when you get your hopes
up and then run into Pete last week and having Todd play well
against me today, it is just pretty disappointing and I haven't
had too much success in them in the last couple of years since
Montreal in '93 and I don't know if it is my preparation or if
it is just some bad luck, but it is getting to be a little disappointing.


 Q.  How often do you get to participate in your NJTL?

 TODD MARTIN:  We have two fund-raisers-- I am sorry, this is
only the second year of our existence. Last year we had two fund-raisers
and we have two fund-raisers planned for this year and then I
have a chance to spend a little bit more time in the summer back
home between tournaments here and there.  And so I go out and
spend a day or so every time I am back in Lansing; going out and
seeing how the kids are progressing and then in the winter there
is just maybe two kids that are scholarship students that get
to take classes throughout the winter at a private club and I
had see them over Christmas the whole time I was home; all their
classes were canceled.  It is not as much time as I like, but
it is enjoyable when I am there.

 Q.  How much did you raise last year?

 TODD MARTIN:  Fortunately enough, I am not too involved with
the money, so I knew at one point and it was more than enough
to keep the program running for the rest of this year, but we
are going to keep needing to have fund-raisers and hopefully they
will keep being successful.  If I start to win a few more matches
here and there, maybe they will be, but. . .

 Q.  You play an exhibition with --

 TODD MARTIN:  One is just a weekend of sort of me in different
situations with just a mixer clinic, ProAm type things, and that
is the one that is coming up in a couple of weeks and the other
one we have an exhibition with another player.  Last year was
MaliVai.  This year I have talked to a few players and we haven't
decided on who is coming yet.

 Q.  How many kids are involved?

 TODD MARTIN:  Last year a little over 100. Hopefully, the number
will keep going up.

 Q.  How did you get involved in this?

 TODD MARTIN:  Well, my coach from Lansing Rick Ferman talked
to me a couple of years ago as I started to do a little better
suggested that that I think about doing something like start a
charity now that I was getting a little bit more publicity in
Lansing and it was starting to be a possibility of me being able
to do something for the community, and when he suggested that
to me, we came up with this Todd Martin Development Fund which
our primarily goal was to start NJTL chapter and then go from
there.  Hopefully a few kids from the area will benefit from it
as far as athletics in tennis go, but more importantly community
and personal growth go.

 End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT