NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 8, 1995
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Fairly quick day's work.  Was there anything in particular
where you were very sharp today?

 TODD MARTIN:  I thought I served very well and I had never played
Horst before; never really seen him play too much, but I didn't
think that he had a whole lot to hurt me with and when I got out
there, realized that was the case, but he did serve -- he served
fairly well and made some good volleys.

 Q.   In the stadium court now, Andre is playing his first
match of the tournament as a competitor and a teammate on Davis
Cup, if I remember right, what is different about him in the last
eight or ten months? Why has he on such a great rise?

 TODD MARTIN:  He is not a Davis Cup team man of mine.

 Q.   You didn't --

 TODD MARTIN:  We didn't play on the same team together.  If I
am not mistaken, he hasn't played Davis Cup lately.

 Q.   Not in a couple of years.  As a competitor then, what
could you see different? 

 TODD MARTIN:  As a peer and a competitor and a friend, I think
he is playing well.  I think he is doing everything probably a
little bit better than he used to as far as stroke production
and that business; then on top of that, he is really doing that
point after point after point rather than doing it for a couple
of points, a couple of games, and then going out to lunch for
a game or two.  Really, most of the guys on the Tour can play
at an extremely high level - if they avoid those lunch breaks.


 Q.   What do you need to do particularly well this week? 
This is such a crowded field.

 TODD MARTIN:  Well, I think got to play well and also I have
to be disciplined and do the right things at the right times;
play aggressively, but since the court is maybe a little slower
than usual, be patient and maybe wait a shot or two longer for
my chance to take and get to the net.

 GREG SHARKO: Anything else for Todd?

 TODD MARTIN:  That was easy.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT