THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 13, 1994
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Todd, what happened in the second set?

 TODD MARTIN:  What happened?  Well, I had some chances in the
first game on my return, on his serve and I didn't play a few
-- I played a few bad points and he played a few good points and
then he played a pretty good game at 1-Love and that just got
me down.  I didn't play a great game and I needed to do my best
to get 2-Love. Instead, I got down 2-Love right there.  It just
didn't happen.  And then the rest of the set, I played okay. 
He played okay, and then just got a little unlucky in the last
game.  I didn't feel bad about it.  I just -- I was more disappointed
with the beginning of the set than the end of the set.  It was
doubtful that I was going to get out of it anyway, so to lose
it 6-3 or 6-4 or 6-2 didn't really matter.

 Q.  Skyrocketing from No. 80 up into the top 10 and you have
a moment to think to yourself, do you sometimes think to yourself
somewhere down the line I am going to run into one of these, losing
in the second round?

 TODD MARTIN:  I have run into them, three in a row. This is essentially
the first round for me.  It is not fun, but the nice thing about
this Tour, and the tennis that we are playing is that anybody
can win it at any day and I just have to give Byron credit because
he played well.

 Q.  Do you think there is any such thing as an easy match
on the Tour at the moment?

 TODD MARTIN:  I don't think so.  Not unless I go and play on
the satellites.  That is not legal.

 Q.  How would you assess the match today?

 TODD MARTIN:  I think I just did pretty good.

 Q.  Are you playing doubles?

 TODD MARTIN:  No.

 Q.  So it is on to Davis Cup next?

 TODD MARTIN:  Right.  I will probably stay here -- I guess we
leave Friday, so I'll stay here for a few more days.

 Q.  May be a blessing in disguise, get ready for that, have
a little bit more time?

 TODD MARTIN:  No.

 Q.  Tough to think about that now?

 TODD MARTIN:  It is -- it is nice now that I will have some time
to prepare for Davis Cup, but I'd much rather be still in the
tournament.

 Q.  How do you feel about these last couple of tournaments;
anything you can pinpoint in your play?

 TODD MARTIN:  Well, I think since Memphis, I sort of won Memphis
on just competitiveness and playing well at the right times. 
I didn't really play great tennis ever during the tournament and
since then, I think it has just been a let-down.  I think I have
had trouble competing and if that is what you have to rely on
to win and you don't have it; then you end up on the downside
of the 7-6 in the thirds, three-set losses.  I am obviously showing
some bit of good tennis to be in these matches because I am not
losing to bad players. But I think I just need, you know, a few
days off and hopefully get the energy back in my legs and the
energy back in my head and then I think things will be fine again
and hopefully I will start moving forward again.

 Q.  Todd, you mean a few days off with no racket in your hand
just to get away from it?

 TODD MARTIN:  Yeah, I think it has been a little difficult for
me this year because I have been playing so many matches.  I haven't
had time to do things that I like to do and that can be a little
tiring in itself; not only am I playing a lot of matches but not
being able to do what I want to do on my own time, that is tiring
itself.  So I just think relax a few days and start working real
hard as soon as possible.  Maybe-- just probably just take tomorrow
off; then start going at it Tuesday.

 Q.  What kind of things do you like to do that you haven't
been able to?

 TODD MARTIN:  Well, being able to not have to worry about what
I am eating every night and maybe go to some other place like
Italian restaurants where I can get pasta.  I love Italian food,
but I haven't gone a night without it in awhile, so just do things,
spend sometime with my family with my friends.  Obviously I am
not going to be able to spend time with my family soon, but you
know, at least just get out and do something other than run around
on a piece of cement.

 Q.  It certainly is an honor to be playing Davis Cup. Has
it been in anyway a distraction to you?

 TODD MARTIN:  Today it was a distraction because I was thinking
about the question if that you asked if it was going to be a blessing
in disguise.  I was out there and I couldn't convince myself that
it would be a blessing in disguise.  I couldn't take it too well,
but.  Hopefully Jim and I and Richey and Patrick will go over
and all perform at the top of our capabilities.  In that case,
I think we are in really good shape.

 Q.  You are going to take a couple of days off or at least
a day off.  Are you going to be hitting on grass before you go
around here?

 TODD MARTIN:  I think.  I am not sure.  I think there are grass
courts down here.  If so, I will just go on the golf course and
run around.  Next best thing.

 Q.  On matchpoint did you think you had that passing shot?

 TODD MARTIN:  Well, as far as that point, I didn't lose the match
on that point.  I lost the match in the first and second game
of that second set.  I had plenty of chances in the third set.
 I had a lot of points looked like that matchpoint.  I wanted
to attack and I just backed off at the last second, and it makes
it very easy for him to attack.  Even if I hit a good shot which
I hit a fairly good shot, you are in the defensive position and
Byron just basically had to get that ball over the net and hit
one of the better volleys of the day.  So I am much more concerned
about the way I played to get to the third set tiebreaker, than
the way I played in the tiebreaker.

 Q.  Can mental fatigue take that edge away that you are looking
for, that competitive edge you are looking for?

 TODD MARTIN:  I think it has.  I don't think it is much -- I
don't think it is going to take much to get back into it, or you
know, get my mind back into the game, but I just hope it happens
sooner than later.

 Q.  Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT