COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1993
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Enjoy your first trip here, today?  

TODD MARTIN:  It is a nice city.  Great.  I have never been  to Germany before.  


Q.  What about the tournament?  I guess --  

TODD MARTIN:  The tournament is about five hours old --  geez, three hours old.  I didn't enjoy my time out on  the court, but I am sure it has been a nice time for  me, the four, five days I have been here already.  


Q.  You arrived what, Thursday?  

TODD MARTIN:  Saturday.  


Q.  Saturday.  

TODD MARTIN:  I can't count too well, maybe three, four.  


Q.  Were any other guys here when you arrived?  

TODD MARTIN:  I think just Wayne was here Saturday when I  got here, so I didn't -- I didn't know if anybody was  here, so I just slept and then I practiced Sunday and  Monday, before the match today.  


Q.  Todd, it has been quite a year for you.  This  must be a tremendous way of finishing off to qualify  for this tournament.  

TODD MARTIN:  Well, the only problem is I qualified for  this two months ago when I did okay at the U.S. Open,  and Wimbledon was the best part of my year.  But this  is no way to end the year losing with only winning five  games, but, you know, hopefully I can learn from it.  And if I come back next year, then I will be a little  better prepared.  


Q.  What is the sort of mental process, Todd,  when you are weighing up when to come here, there must  be temptations; you know, I will come here ten days  before?  

TODD MARTIN:  Temptation to come here ten days before?  


Q.  No, no, in terms of like David Wheaton did a  couple of years ago.  

TODD MARTIN:  There was no temptation.  


Q.  Just wasn't --  

TODD MARTIN:  No.  It is my holiday, so, you know, I have  been practicing consistently, but not as intense as I  am going to when I go home.  I have got to prepare for  next year, and although this tournament is very  important, I needed to take a little break after my  long trip in the fall, and I just -- it has been four  weeks since I have played a match, and it just showed.  But there was no temptation to come ten days earlier  and leave home.  


Q.  Are you going to make the trip down under  and, if so --  

TODD MARTIN:  Yes.  


Q.  How far ahead of time will you arrive in  Australia?  

TODD MARTIN:  I play Sydney, which is the week of the 10th,  and Melbourne, which is the week of the 17th, and I  will probably arrive the 8th or so, maybe the 7th.  


Q.  Todd, even at this stage of your career where  you have had a breakthrough year, but your career is  still rather young.  The thought of winning a couple of  rounds and making a mind boggling amount of money, that  didn't even enter into the equation when you are  thinking of your preparation for this event?  

TODD MARTIN:  Well  --  


Q.  Obviously you didn't want to come over here  just for fun --  

TODD MARTIN:  What I mean is that most tournaments have  pretty much the same importance to me, and the reason I  play is to prove my ability, whether I get paid nothing  or get paid a lot.  I still want to prove that I am a  good player.  The reason I came here was not because I  knew I had the chance to make a million, $600,000 or  just $100,000 to lose first round.  It is because this  is 16 of the better players in the world, you know,  minus just a few of the top 10 guys, and it is a great  chance for me to test my skills against these guys.  And even today was good because I did test him, and  Stefan showed that I still need a lot of work.  


Q.  What will you have to work on especially,  saying that you still need a lot of work?  

TODD MARTIN:  The things that I am working on are one, my  movement which is not very good today, and my strength,  and on top of that, working on my volleys to back up my  serve.  All three of those, I have been working on a  lot, especially in the last couple of weeks getting  ready for the tournament.  And I think the physical  part, the strength and the speed, I think, goes down  before it goes up because I have been lifting weights a  lot and stuff like that and I think maybe I am just a  little sluggish right now and the volleys I didn't get  to hit any because I never served -- made a first  serve, so --  


Q.  Was there any special reason for shaving your  beard?  

TODD MARTIN:  Well, just didn't -- no special reason, I  don't like to shave, but after a while it feels good  to, so -- 


Q.  I shave more than I don't shave, so --  Anymore questions?  Thank you, today. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT