WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 13, 2003
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD MARTIN: I played fine. In the first set the sun was, I think, in a terrible position for his serve when he was on the north side of the court, and so I broke him early in the match. I played one pretty shaky game to let him back into the set. Then the tiebreaker was honestly won by a couple good shots by me and a couple important errors on his part. Then the second set I think he was a bit dejected and maybe a little tired, but I don't know. Didn't look like he was 100 percent in it. I broke him in the first game. I had plenty of chances to go up two breaks the whole way and saved one breakpoint in I guess the 8th game of the set. Other than that, played fairly well. 

TODD MARTIN: Honestly, this isn't that hot. It is warm and -- it's hot, I shouldn't ... But it's hot and it's a little humid; it's not hot and ridiculously humid, and it's not crazy hot. So these conditions, but for the difficulty of staying dry, are very playable. 

TODD MARTIN: Well, it's difficult sometimes because, one, at my age I'm asked a lot about when I'm going to stop, which in turn forces me to think about the last part of my career, which takes away a little bit of that long-term goal setting - or focus, long-term goal focus. But I've had a couple of terrible weeks this summer, and it forced me really to regroup mentally and refocus. I've had some great conversations with some very important people in my life to help readdress my career, because it's still my career. 

TODD MARTIN: Well, it's as much listening as talking. You know, I worked with a sports psychologist once, and he didn't even like being called a sports psychologist. He liked to sort of be called "an organizer of thoughts." The group of people who I've spoken to have helped, in different ways, helped me organize my thoughts a bit, and that makes it a whole lot easier to address things in a straightforward manner once we get out on the court. 

TODD MARTIN: I'd prefer to have a job. That's the extent of the ranking to me. It's not very good right now, so I don't get as many jobs. So I'd like to be able to pick and choose a little bit more than I do and not have to have people mistake me with Mr. Fields. 

TODD MARTIN: See, Sandy, I mean, at least pay attention and get the joke, okay (laughter). I got "W.C." next to my name twice this week, okay? W.C. Fields, come on. Sandy... Shark got it, he just didn't let anybody know. 

TODD MARTIN: Well, I don't think there's any negative about it. If by chance I'm not playing as well, or if by chance I lose my quote, unquote "job," that means it's time to not play as well and time to not have this job anymore. I've so thoroughly enjoyed my experience as a father and witnessing Amy as a mother, that, you know, I could be ranked 1,000-and-something right now and... 

TODD MARTIN: No, no. That was pretty well alleviated after the first few months. I mean, it's different sleep, but, you know, I'm a pretty quick adapter to sleep schedules. I can nap with the best of them. So Jack naps, I nap. 

TODD MARTIN: Different impetus to nap, though. 

TODD MARTIN: January. 

TODD MARTIN: No, you know, one of the things, I'm a pretty reserved, especially - I guess introverted would be a pretty good way to describe me when it comes to my own feelings and emotions - so I, you know, the threshold was reached and I had to vent a little bit some of my thoughts. Fortunately, there were some, like I said, some important people in my life there to listen and help, you know, at least understand my predicament or my situation and then help in ways to direct me from this point forward. And that's, you know, specifically, that's getting back to some of the basics about how I can play the game the best, about how this game is the most fun for me to play, and what priority certain things should be in my life. That's always, you know -- I don't think those discussions should happen every day, but when they do happen, it's very helpful. 

TODD MARTIN: Most everything about me is private. But, yes, those especially are. Thank you for at least asking. 

TODD MARTIN: Well, I lost last Saturday in quallies in Montreal. I was at home Saturday night and spent most of last week addressing some of the issues. 

TODD MARTIN: No, but I reached a point where I couldn't count on it being fun every day . I should rephrase that - I reached a point where I couldn't count on me making it fun every day. 

TODD MARTIN: Fun. It's been much better. There are some things that, you know, I'd like to take a right-cross from Tyson for. I'm still having so much trouble with my service toss, it's crazy. But, generally, I'm back to competing well and, you know, compelled by the competition, which is essential. Because there's not many days where I'm gonna play super tennis, but I think average tennis is still good enough to win often if your mind is there and ready to go. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT