PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 15, 2002
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Just come along to show these youngsters how they should do it? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Come on, Yevgeny isn't that much younger than me. How much?  
 
Q. Three years. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: All right, he is younger than me. Gee, you know, these conditions, one, I'm used to because I do a lot of training out here; and, two, I feel like with the lightness of the air here, the speed of the court and the speed of the ball, the three components have worked together perfectly, I don't think just for me but I think if you asked most of the guys out here, they're pretty comfortable with the way the conditions are. I think that helps make me feel a little bit more comfortable and a little bit more confident in myself. I feel like I am controlling the ball well. When I feel that way, I feel like I can compete with most anybody.  
 
Q. How are you physically at the moment? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I feel pretty good. I've probably felt better once I got to the semifinals of a tournament before. You know, today, I guess you notice as you go along how much adrenaline affects how you feel. And I seem to feel okay today (smiling).  
 
Q. With your No. 64 ranking, one would think you would have been in this tournament without receiving a wildcard. How did it happen that you got the wildcard? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, the way our tournaments work, I think there's 52 direct acceptances into this tournament. I don't know, I don't think I was 64 at the time of entry, but I'm not sure.  
 
 TODD MARTIN: So, you know, I called up and begged. I think Charlie and Ray saw that Michael and I both were off the acceptance list. I think Michael, due to the fact that he's Michael, has won this tournament three times, it was a no-brainer. And, fortunately, I was able to sneak in ahead of one of the young guys who would also have been a prospective wildcard candidate. I'll be sending Christmas cards to both of them for a long time.  
 
Q. You played some pretty good matches, some great matches, with Tim. Any thoughts on tomorrow? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well...  
 
Q. Do you feel thinking back there was a better chance for you at Wimbledon last year than was appreciated at the time? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: You guys are all schmucks anyway (laughter). The way I feel about playing Tim is, one, he's one of my very favorite guys out here. I've said that about other players over the years, but I think he's a special guy. So from that standpoint, if I shake hands and say, "Good luck," it doesn't hurt quite as bad. But I think it's an interesting match-up because we both - and Tim probably a better job than I do - play the percentages pretty well. I think that, despite both of us sort of fighting for the opportunity to attack one another, I think it will provide a pretty interesting match. It usually does. It's a match-up that usually the guy who comes up with the good shots at the right time wins - similar to Yevgeny's and my match today.  
 
Q. How do you feel about the final being switched from 3 to 5? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: That's the first I heard about it. It's at 3?  
 
Q. Best two out of three. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I can tell you if a 31-year-old is in the final, he'll be happy.  
 
Q. What makes Tim so special? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I think if you've never met him before, his perspective on competition, and our lifestyle, it's pretty refreshing. I think he holds things -- holds important things where they're supposed to be and holds this where it's supposed to be - not that "this" isn't important. You know, all the pressure he's ever had over in London, he's handled so well. It's simply because he understands that what happens, happens, and the best he can do is the best he can do. And then once you get to know him personally, you know, he's a mischievous, endearing personality that's always a pleasure to be around.  
 
Q. Is as good as he can do reaching a Slam semifinal and only reaching one Masters Series final, never winning a Masters Series title, or is it something that at 27, like Tim, it's possible he can have a further great career? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I think, frankly, no offense to you, I don't think that question needs to be asked. I'm 31. I've made it to two Grand Slam finals. I've made it to one of these finals before. My highest ranking has been four, blah blah blah, blah blah blah blah. But I can still do better. And Tim is more than capable to do better.  
 
Q. So you think it's a strong possibility he's a late-bloomer? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Frankly, I think he's an early bloomer. He was on the tour at 18 or 19, started having great success at 22 or 23. Last I checked, you didn't have to be the most perfect shaped rose and the largest in order to be in bloom. So, I mean, he's been one of the best tennis players in the world for a number of years, and he will continue to be.  
 
Q. With all due respect, you understand there's a different level between someone who's been in the Top 10 and then players who have won Slams and multiple tournaments, and players who just happen to get late into tournaments frequently? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Boy, I'll beg to differ. I think -- I don't necessarily feel that Thomas Johansson or Richard Krajicek or some of these guys who have won Grand Slams, who have "broken through," are any better than the rest of us who haven't "broken through." You know, I think -- my hat's off to anybody whoever won a Grand Slam, but it says a lot to give yourself the opportunity to win those Grand Slams, as well. Take that for what you will.  
 
Q. Could you talk about just frustrations the last couple years with all the injury problems. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, my frustrations sort of mounted last year at The Open. I sort of finally probably did the self-reflection, the serious self-reflection, that I needed to do a couple years ago - maybe a number of years ago. I was injured for a reason. I've been injured for a reason throughout my career. One, I'm probably a little bit predisposed due to my build. But, two, I've probably never been in as ideal of shape as an elite professional athlete should be. That's been my major objective since September. I've lost probably eight pounds, am much stronger and am in much better condition. Despite having tape on my knee, tape on my wrist, a few other things, I feel very good, I feel very healthy. It's just, I think, frankly years of not being in as ideal of shape as I could be, has taken a toll on my body in the long run, and now if tape holds me together, it holds me together. At least I'm not out there thinking, "What's going to go next?" I feel very strong and comfortable.  
 
Q. You obviously have had many years out on the circuit. What are you most proud of, of all your years on the circuit? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I remember being asked about what I was proud of like when I was 25 or 26. I said to whoever asked that question, "My dad taught me that pride was a sin." So I'm most pleased about having recovered from elbow surgery in '97 and the death of my father later that year, and having reasserted myself, started to play again like one of the best players in the world, which I felt like I was still capable of. That was sort of one of those look-in-the-mirror times. That definitely propelled me a bit, gave me a lot more confidence, and I learned a lot as a tennis player during that period of time - '98, '99. And I'm also pretty pleased with myself about what's transpired in the last six months. I think this has been -- you know, maybe there's not been glaring signs of it, but it's been -- it's been the most deserving I've ever been of the success I've had.  
 
Q. Because of the hard work you put into it? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Because of the consistency with which I'm focused, with the amount of other things in my life that I'm balancing along with my career, and from maybe - most importantly - from what I'm absorbing from my experiences in the sport and how I'm applying them to my time on the court.  
 
Q. Does this win today kind of validate or show you that this is what you should have done, reaffirm that? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, you know what it does, it gives -- it might give me the soapbox to talk to some of the younger guys about, "Listen, you know, I certainly didn't throw away years, but I didn't make the most of some of the years I had." That feels a lot better than throwing them away, but it doesn't feel great. But I'm a big believer in, you know, the path you take is really just as important as where you get to.  
 
Q. The other day Sampras was saying he could see you playing in one of the singles spots in Houston in a few weeks' time, granted on a different surface to this. Do you think what you've didn't here should definitely put that in Patrick's mind? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: No. I think Patrick should understand that before this tournament I had been playing very well this year, and he should understand that Pete's coming into form, and he should understand that Andy is in form and hasn't proven to be out of form in quite some time, not to mention James Blake has been playing great this year, too. I think all that Patrick needs to do is understand his choices and be confident in whichever choice he makes. I don't think success in any one tournament should alter too much his perception of what his roster has in store for him.  
 
Q. At the same time, take your point on the -- not one tournament, but the fact that you have got experience on grass, where the other guys are still green on it. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Oh, my God (laughter). In answer to your very interesting question, I think experience makes a difference; however, there's a certain point where talent outweighs experience, and also the opportunity to provide experience outweighs experience also. I think finally Patrick's in an enviable position, to have choices.  
 
Q. Kafelnikov came in here and said he felt he played better than you had, and he further said he feels that Henman has a perfect type of game to oppose you, that he's going to chip and charge, do some of the things that Kafelnikov did not do. Would you remark on that. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I did a little post match interview on the court, and I said the same thing. I think Yevgeny probably did out-play me. However, I think that's one of the neatest things about our sport, is the scoring system is geared towards critical moments. During those critical moments, he didn't out-play me. And that's encouraging for me. With regard to Tim playing against me, I think Tim does pose a great challenge to me. But over the years, I've had better success against Tim than I've had against Yevgeny. The nice thing about it is we don't have to rely on anybody else's opinion. I think we get to go out and see who plays better tomorrow. It will be fun doing so.  
 
Q. He had 11 breakpoints on you, only converted on one. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: How many breakpoints did I have?  
 
Q. You had two and converted them both. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: (Applauding.) What's your question?  
 
Q. What you did when he didn't convert those breakpoints. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I think the first game and the third game of the second set were most critical. I was down I think Love-40 in the first game or 15-40, right after having won the first set in a good tiebreak. Got through that game. He held easily. Then right away I was back in the thick of things. We were to switch balls right after my serve, so we were playing with as slow a tennis ball as possible. That's the most difficult time for me to have success against Yevgeny. One, I probably served better, I mixed up my serve well, and I didn't just ace my way out of it. I did hit a couple big serves at critical times on breakpoints. But for the most part, I felt like I planned the point well in my head and then I executed it accordingly. And that's when the sport's the easiest to play.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT