PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 15, 2002
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Pete only talked about weather and wind.  Same issue with you?

TODD MARTIN:  Weather, wind and Tim.  You know, they're lousy conditions out there.  But last I checked, doesn't just blow on one side of the court.  But on days like today, it doesn't seem like it's windy on the other side of the court, that's for sure.  You know, what I watched of Pete's match, certainly what I watched of my match, our opponents were always in the right place.  It makes it pretty difficult, especially to feel like you can mount much of a charge because there's not much way to develop a rhythm, there's not much way to feel like you can string together some shots, which unfortunately for all of us provides sort of listless tennis.

Q.  Yesterday you talked about critical points, especially the breakpoints.  Today was almost the reverse. 

TODD MARTIN:  It was the reverse.  You know, in the first set at least I made him work pretty hard to win his serve.  You know, if I win one or two of those points, it's a much different story.  And, who knows, he might not start making headway on my serve if I'm up a break instead.  A lot can be affected by just one point.  I played some of those breakpoints okay.  I felt like Tim was on top of his game.  You know, he had the same story yesterday.  He was down tons of breakpoints yesterday and got out of it.  You know, that more than how well you actually hit the ball is the most important thing on how you progress: When you need to, are you ready to play?  And he was.

Q.  As much as you practiced, one would think you would be a little accustomed to the wind. 

TODD MARTIN:  Frankly, on days like this in the desert, when we're practicing 22 hours a week, we don't feel too bad about taking a day off.  We don't practice much in weather like this.  And also you never practice in a stadium, and the wind does a lot stranger things in a stadium than it does, you know, on an individual court.  But that being said, I don't think anybody chooses to practice in this type of weather.

Q.  Is Tim playing well enough to beat Lleyton?

TODD MARTIN:  Well, I think they're both playing well enough to beat each other.  I think it's proven to be a difficult match-up for Tim in the past.  I certainly have been impressed with the way Lleyton's played, not only this week, but a couple weeks ago in San  Jose.  I would expect him to be right at the top of his game tomorrow, as well.  That being said, this is as sharp as I've seen Tim in a long time, if not ever, and I think he's developing more and more faith in himself and in his game.  So I think it could be an interesting match-up, for sure. 

Q.  Something that we asked both Lleyton and Pete this morning, when you got up this morning, did you look out the window, see how the wind was?

TODD MARTIN:  My shutters haven't been open yet this week.

Q.  You prefer not to study the wind conditions?

TODD MARTIN:  I knew it was going to be miserable today.  You know, it wasn't all that nice from Wednesday on.  You know, you get pretty well-accustomed to playing in less-than-ideal conditions.  And, frankly, coming into the match, I didn't feel like the conditions would be necessarily in his favor.  I think I play pretty well in the wind.  I didn't play all that well today.  But I do tend to play fairly well in it.  Just so happens that he was up to my early challenges, and when he had his opportunities, he took them full speed.

Q.  You got in this tournament on a wildcard.  You won over $100,000.  I would think that makes you feel pretty good. 

TODD MARTIN:  After almost 12 years of doing this, if it's about the paycheck, then I'm definitely in the wrong business. 

Q.  If you were Patrick McEnroe, would you choose Todd Martin for one of the single's slots for the Houston Davis Cup?

TODD MARTIN:  Seeing as though there's four matches, four singles matches on the weekend, I would think about having Todd Martin as an option.

Q.  Is that a, "Yes, I would"? 

TODD MARTIN:  That's neither.  It's neither.  I don't think I would do the team any harm, but then again I don't think Andy would do the team any harm.  I think Pete's a foregone conclusion.  I just think, like I said yesterday, Pat has a choice to make.  Seeing as though the rules allow a broader use of your team or a more liberal use of your team, I think there are options for him.  I certainly would hope he wouldn't make his decision today or yesterday or tomorrow on what his lineup is going to be.  I think he's got tons of options. 

Q.  Would it be a kick for you to play doubles with Pete?

TODD MARTIN:  Yeah, it would be exciting.  I mean, it's exciting to play, regardless of who with.  I wonder if Pete's too interested in playing doubles, and I wonder if that's strategically the best thing to do.  I think him on the single's court, he on the single's court, poses enough of a threat to win two points, to not want to take a risk and put him on the court for a doubles match. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT