US OPEN
August 29, 2000
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How are you hitting? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I felt like I was hitting the ball pretty well today. I didn't do that the whole match, but the better part of the match I felt like I played pretty well.  
 
Q. It's been a long time since we've seen Todd Martin practicing or playing without some type of bandage. Is that a sign things are getting a lot better? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I feel pretty healthy. I've got a little situation with my left wrist, but it feels fine now. It's just a matter of if I can afford to play without it braced, taped, whatever.  
 
Q. What happened in the third set? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: He played better than I did. He played much better than I did. I had a great opportunity I think at 1-Love in the third, I was up 15-40. I felt like it was possible it was going to be 4, 1 and 0. When he got out of that game, I think he had a little more spring in his step and he started fighting again. When he plays well, he's as tough to beat as anybody.  
 
Q. Even with the run he's had throughout this year? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I don't think Vince has forgotten how to hit the ball. I think he just doesn't quite remember how to compete and how to win matches. You know, he's going to have to sort of just stumble into that because he's going to have to learn it himself, no matter who tells him, "You're a good player, you beat these guys last year," whatever. He's going to have to prove it to himself to have the confidence to continue to do it.  
 
Q. But it's going to be a tough road for him, qualifying, challengers. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: It will be much easier this way, much easier. He's going to get to experience what winning tennis matches is like again. He won't struggle like this in challengers and qualifying.  
 
Q. Such a great run here last year. What would it mean to you to reach the finals again here? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, it would mean probably just as much as it did last year. It's just a lot of fun for me to be here and to play here. I walked off the court today, I was just pleased that I knew I was going to get another chance to go out and do it again on Friday. You know, if it happens, gee, it's great. If it doesn't, you know, I'll still remember last year and remember this year, too, for what it had to offer.  
 
Q. Are you physically healthier this year than last year? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I was in really good shape last year. I had a little bit of a problem with my knee, but it looked a lot worse than it was. Everything else in my body seemed to be in great shape. However, I could say the same thing right now, except instead of my knee, it's my left wrist. But, once again, it looks a lot worse than it is.  
 
Q. Have you looked ahead at your side of the draw? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: No.  
 
Q. Do you know who you might play next at all? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I know I play either Michael or Harel.  
 
Q. Not to bring up a sore subject, but do you have -- there was that incredible point when Corretja was almost off the court. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: In the doubles.  
 
Q. Yes. Do you at all replay a point like that in your mind? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Listen, I mean, it was a great point. It was a point that they won. As much as it stings, you have to take your hat off and say, "Nice shot." Unfortunately, when we were in Spain, we had to do it an awful lot.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT