DAVIS CUP - SPAIN vs USA
July 21, 2000
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What did he do that bothered you, Todd? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I don't think anything really bothered me. I felt like I had plenty of chances in those types of matches. It's not a matter of being bothered; it's just a matter of not capitalizing on those chances and making some errors, choosing to do some things that, retrospectively, weren't the right play. The third set, the only time that he bothered me was in the third set when he started serving so well.  
 
Q. At the end, with all the heat and the crowd against you, was it a painful experience? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: No, the crowd was very fair. I enjoy playing away Davis Cup ties, and this crowd is extremely fair and respectful of both players.  
 
Q. Actually, you have beaten Spanish players frequently. You just won a tournament in Barcelona. Today did you find that the court was slower? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I don't think the court was any slower. We were asking for it to be watered after two sets just because, one, I thought the speed -- the fact that the court was speeding up might have been helping him a little bit because his balls were going to the court a little bit more; and, two, it made it difficult for me to balance myself on a slippery court.  
 
Q. Did you tire in the third? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: No. I felt fine the whole time. It was just I had loads of chances in the first two sets, and by the time the third set rolled around, he - I don't think - had much to be concerned about probably because his game -- I'm sure he felt like he was playing okay - not great, not bad. But he was up two sets to Love playing okay. So I'm sure he relaxed a little bit more. And, like I said, he started serving much better and, you know, then it just takes a couple awkward points and he's through to the third set.  
 
Q. Are you expecting to play doubles tomorrow with Gambill? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I'm expecting to do what the coach asks me to do. If he asks me to play doubles, I'm going to play.  
 
Q. Has he indicated to you to prepare for doubles? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: No. I think right now everybody's concern is to focus on Jan-Michael and getting him ready to play, and we'll address what we need to address after Jan-Michael's done.  
 
Q. But if you were asked, you would be ready to go? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Yes. I'm not too fatigued from today's match.  
 
Q. You said you had plenty of chances. If you had to redo the match, how would you execute? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I think unfortunately in one respect but fortunately in the fact that I'm not going to sit there and sit around and dwell on my missed chances. I did, for the most part, some good things when I had my chances. I just didn't execute them. And that's a lot better than doing completely idiotic things when you do have the chances. It was just I had Love-40 twice in the first set, 15-40 maybe one other time, and he got out of those games. Not only did he get out of them, he got out of them quickly, and that's a big lift for him, and a big, you know, a tough thing for the guy who's got the break points to deal with. Then in the second set I was up a break, just couldn't consolidate.  
 
Q. If you had to break those first two times in the first set, do you think the result would have been different? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I'm a big believer in the way you start the match sends a great message. I started the match very well and had Love-40 in the second game. I had a really good opportunity to win that point and just overcooked the forehand and, you know, he gets out of that game. And automatically -- he lost the first seven points. And right away, after one or two loose points at the beginning of the next game, he's got tons of momentum and feeling good about things.  
 
Q. Your serve, how would you assess your serve today? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I didn't serve that well. I was disappointed. I've been serving well in practice. However, I felt like Albert returned my serves as well as he ever has. He got a lot more of the few good first serves I hit in back, in somewhat difficult positions to volley. I got sort of caught off balance with a few of his bad returns, too, just up and just put me in a strange position. But that's one thing that both in the doubles, if I'm called to play, and also on Sunday, I'll just have to relax and let it do what it can do. I think I tried to force it probably.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT