DAVIS CUP - USA vs AUSTRALIA
July 12, 1999
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. (Inaudible...) 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I heard that. That's very exciting for us because historically we haven't done that well, at least in the last few years. We're all excited about having a packed house and an environment that's -- or a community that's really here for us to be here.  
 
Q. The controversy with Pete coming on, we've read about it, heard about it. Why did you offer your position? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I think that's been a little bit misconstrued. I've told Tom that I feel like he should do -- I think we should have the best team out on the court. If he thinks that I'm not part of it, that's fine; I'm not upset. I have said that I would just sit out. I think if Tom feels like I should be on the court, I'd like to be on the court.  
 
Q. Has that been discussed? Have you folks discussed that? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: No. Not as a group.  
 
Q. Have you met as a group since you've been here? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Not formally. We've been together as a group, but in a casual sense.  
 
Q. Can you talk about, as a group, what it brings? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I think you need to be a little bit more specific.  
 
Q. In terms of your strengths? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: We all are unique in ourselves, in our own sense. We have different skills and abilities on the court and also off the court, and, somehow, we blend those together and do well. We get along well off the court, and that sometimes is more important than how we get along on the court considering usually we're out there by ourselves.  
 
Q. How different is that, going from playing an individual sport, you say by yourself, and you come into this and you have teammates, people rooting for you on the sidelines? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, it's unique, but I'd certainly rather have Pete rooting for me than on the other side of the net. So it's a nice change. It's a real pleasant change to have guys you consider your friends out watching each other play and backing each other. That's obviously, by the nature of our business, that's not what happens week in and week out.  
 
Q. Along the same lines, you talk about needing to have a coach on the...(Inaudible)? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: That's very different, too. In fact, each of us probably deal with it in a different way. Some guys don't care to have much said or pointed out; some guys are a sponge and want everything that the captain needs to be said; others probably are sort of right in between and have a little bit more casual approach to it. So it's a difficult task for Tom to have to cope with, but he knows us all well enough to know what our comfort level is with input.  
 
Q. Could you just say what yours individually is? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Mine? I'm sort of right in the middle. If things are going well, I'd just as soon not rock the boat at all. And if I struggle a little bit, I'll ask Tom a few questions or just basically ask for his input. And, also, on some of the more nerve-racking moments, it's good for me just to have somebody to ask, just ask stupid questions, irrelevant to tennis, just sort of somehow get your mind off of it a little bit and relax.  
 
Q. Todd, how do you feel coming off of Wimbledon? How do you feel that tournament went for you? How do you feel physically coming into this? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I feel good about it. I had about a week off. I feel well-rested and well-healed from the experience over in London. I felt like I played well over there; I just ran into a guy who played a little bit better than I did on a given day. So, hopefully, that will continue, and I'll continue to improve. I've only hit three times since then. Today it felt a little bit better. Hopefully, I'll continue to improve the rest of the week.  
 
Q. Todd, because of the success that you had in England, it really started this whole Davis Cup thing. It even made Pete want to join the team. Pete joining the team, was that a difficult situation for this club? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: A difficult situation, no. It was an interesting one. Boy, it was music to my ears. I thought the way he went about it was great. For the first time, I think he initiated the contact with Tom about playing, and I felt like that was enough right there to convince me of his intentions and his desire to be on our team. It's been a little bit difficult, I think, for him in some ways to feel like he's not sort of jumping on the bandwagon. But I think Jim and I have tried to put his mind at ease with that. He's committed for the year, and I just hope he enjoys it so in the future he'll continue to want to be a part of it.  
 
Q. How does the Davis Cup compare to other tournaments you've played, especially the four major ones? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I don't want to say it's on par with the four Majors. I sometimes feel like the Davis Cup is a better experience than the Grand Slams. But I say that because winning and losing, the emotions that come with those results are a little bit more extreme in Davis Cup.  
 
Q. More pressure? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: When you win, you feel great, as good as you can feel. But when you lose, it rips at your heart a bit, and I'm sure that's due to the pressure and also due to just wanting to do well for your team and for your country.  
 
Q. How do you feel about this Australian Club now? Two weeks ago they were a powerhouse, now there are injuries. Psychologically, where does it leave you guys? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: We've had plenty of notice. We knew Mark wasn't going to play a week and a half ago. Some of us were aware that Todd might not be playing late last week. Personally, I don't think their team is a whole lot, if any, weaker. I think that Lleyton Hewitt and hard court conditions are tough. And instead of Todd Woodbridge, it's Sandon Stolle, the third-ranked doubles player in the world, so I don't see that as a big loss.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT