NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 11, 1999
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. He played very well in the first set. You had a hard time breaking the first time and the second time. How do you feel you turned things? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, it was a tough first set. I started off and double-faulted twice in the first game. He played a terrible game to let me back in the set to 2-All. I gave it right back. I don't think the tennis was great. I thought he played pretty well, and he probably could have won the set easier than he did. Then in the second set, I just sort of hung in and got enough balls back to where I gave him an opportunity to miss a few balls, and he did. I think the 3-2 game it was. From there, I started playing much better. I stopped making as many errors. I probably got not more cautious, but just safer. I played safer tennis, gave myself more margin for error. I felt like I was a little bit more willing to play a longer point. My impression of it was that he didn't enjoy having to play a longer point. Obviously, he liked moving me around a couple times and me missing. Once I stopped missing, made him move me around a few more times, then he missed a little bit more.  
 
Q. For someone who hasn't played really in like three or four months almost, are you surprised at how well he's playing still? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I think he did some things very well today, but he also did some things that he probably wouldn't have done before his injury. But I think the main problem today for him was is what his problem has been most often, that if guys are willing to fight and compete, he gets pretty frustrated with it, stops competing himself a little bit. I'm sure his back didn't feel great today, but I don't think I won the match because of his rustiness. He's hitting the ball fine. I think he gets disinterested and disenchanted out there.  
 
Q. Did you think he was like that today after you took the second set pretty easily? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: You know, it wasn't until late in the third set that I felt like he had had enough. But when I'm up 5-2, or when I'm down 5-2 in the third set, one break, I'm busting my tail to make sure that the other guy has to serve for it. Out of all the games he played today, the worst game he played was probably the last one.  
 
Q. Have you been working with Jose at all this week? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I've worked with Jose over the years quite a bit, this week a little bit more. Hopefully, that can continue.  
 
Q. Just look ahead to tomorrow with Mark. Similar styles? Say anything. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I think Mark and I have only played twice. It's been a while. It's going to be a little bit like today, except for instead of being on the defense a fair bit, because I'm having to move side to side, I'm going to be on the defense a fair bit from the weight of Mark's shot. Two keys. One, when I do have a chance to attack, make good on it. Two, make sure I retrieve well and challenge him to hit one more shot, and to make that one more shot a difficult one.  
 
Q. Since most of the top seeds are out, do you think that kind of opens things up for you or anyone else? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I didn't know till about 15 minutes ago that I played Mark. I don't really know what's happening. I know Pete lost. I know Alex lost. A lot of other people have lost, but I don't know who. I'm just happy to be playing still. It's the best I've probably played here. It's exciting because I like the desert. It's nice to be able to stick around here past Wednesday.  
 
Q. You had a good start of the year so far. Do you feel better than you have been? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I feel like I'm a much better tennis player than I ever have been right now. I don't necessarily think I've got a new forehand or a new backhand that are God sends. I just know more about the sport and I know how to play the sport. I feel still like I'm learning every day. For some reason, I don't know why, I'm more receptive to the learning than I used to be. That's for sure the key to why I'm doing better. Plus I'm doing some physical things better, I'm moving much better, volleying as well as I ever have. It's all a matter of just being more comfortable and confident with my abilities and making the most of them.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT