US OPEN
August 31, 1998
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Q. Are you feeling that good,?
TODD MARTIN: I feel good, yeah. I was telling my coach today, I have gone a week and a half without taking any anti-inflammatories and I think tomorrow is my first day back on. But it is just a matter of -- the weather has been great, nice and warm, humid and that is just great conditions for my elbow. Basically my whole body.
Q. Do you try to experiment to see what you could --
TODD MARTIN: There is certainly a necessity to do that, wean yourself? I don't want to live the rest of my life popping pills just to walk on a tennis court, but if they are not necessary, you shouldn't be taking them. I am going to take them tomorrow just because I think I felt my elbow a couple of times tonight, not pain, but it's just something that hasn't been there the last few days and there is no sense taking a risk of letting it flame up a little bit on me.
Q. If you were to order a first round match --
TODD MARTIN: It wouldn't be Jeff Tarango.
Q. Yes. In terms of the time involved and the toughness of the match, --
TODD MARTIN: Time involved, what do you mean? The amount of time we were on the court or lateness of the match.
Q. The time involved in the length of the match, so that it was a straight set match. Isn't this a good way to start a 2 week event against a good player?
TODD MARTIN: When you win your first round it is always a good way to start a two-week tournament. I am especially pleased that I was just able to play Monday. I think, you know, playing seven matches or the prospect of playing seven matches over 14 days is a lot easier than the prospect of playing it over 12 or 13, which some of the guys are going to have to do. If I end up playing great over the next couple of weeks and I think the fact that I got the first round out of the way on Monday is going to be a benefit to me.
Q. And not too tough, but not easy opponent, didn't stretch out five sets?
TODD MARTIN: The nice thing about tonight is, one, I had a tough opponent and won. I didn't play great. But I played real well at times and did what I had to do. I think that bodes well because you never want to -- you never want to play your best match first nor do you want to play your worst match first, so -- I was happy with right where it was.
Q. Goran, next?
TODD MARTIN: I believe so.
Q. Playing a lefty to play another lefty does that make any difference to you?
TODD MARTIN: Two pretty different lefties. It is good in the sense that I am looking at the ball coming at me the same way and if I am hitting the ball to the ad side of the court he is going to be hitting a forehand if I am hitting to the deuce side of the court, he is going to be hitting a backhand. But Jeff's serve is so much better than it was eight years ago when we first played, but even a few years ago when I played doubles against him, his serve has gotten remarkably better. But it is a placement. It is a spin serve for the most part. With Goran, he is going to do a lot of that, but it is going to be mixed in with a lot of bombs and no serve first or second is going to be real slow. It will be a different look for me returning especially.
Q. The courts apparently are playing pretty quick.
TODD MARTIN: I'd say so.
Q. What effect will that have on kick-second serves?
TODD MARTIN: Despite the fact that the courts are playing pretty quick, the ball is bouncing high which is good. I think low and fast is really difficult. I think that is when you get into -- into some binds playing some of the big guys. But the ball is bouncing up, so, a guy with a good kick serve the ball is still going to kick. I don't think it is going to hurt a guy like Alex Corretja too much who can kick the serve real well and occasionally today I hit some good kick serves. Jeff mixed in a couple of kick serves I thought worked very well.
Q. It wouldn't necessarily hurt Pat Rafter's second serve?
TODD MARTIN: It is not ideal, I don't think for somebody who relies on a big kick second serve, but Pat, one, has the best second serve probably. And two, is able to do more than just kick it. I think the reason Pat's serves are so good is because he backs them up so well and you know you have to make a better return than you would against most of the other guys.
Q. It must be easier to play during the day than at night. Is it very significant, especially against somebody like Goran?
TODD MARTIN: Not necessarily. I think the lights here are good enough to where I think the returner can still pick up the ball fairly quickly. Whether it is as quickly as during the middle of the day, it remains to be seen. I don't think it should make too big of a difference and whatever it is for you it is the same for the other guy and, you know, Goran and I both rely on our serves quite a bit, so, you know, wherever -- if we play day or night, I don't think it should benefit one or the other of us.
Q. I was -- I was interested in your preference to day or night?
TODD MARTIN: Well, as far as the environment and atmosphere of the match I'd rather play night every day of the year. I'd much rather be on the court at night. If it is a nice day and you are comfortable out there, I think playing during the day is great. I think it is much easier to have your intensity high when you are playing at night.
Q. It doesn't bother you to have to spend the whole day knowing that at 9 o'clock, or 7 o'clock, or 8 you are going to be playing?
TODD MARTIN: I like that. I think it gives you a chance to do some other things during the day. You don't have to rush out to the tennis center to get things done that you normally do, and you get a lot of time to think about the match, which I think creates a lot of nervous energy which at this level I think is very good. I think before a match the buildup of nervous energy, is, I think, usually very beneficial.
Q. Davis Cup, no Sampras, no Agassi, no Courier. We know you are going to be there because you are always there?
TODD MARTIN: If I am asked.
Q. What do you hear about who else is going to be involved?
TODD MARTIN: Well, I think there is a number of guys that have the opportunity to play and Gully, I am sure has a better idea than I do have, who he is going to select and I think it might end up coming down to who really shines forth these next two weeks, and if one of the candidates steps up in place, well, we could be seeing that player at the Davis Cup.
Q. Have you talked to Michael Chang?
TODD MARTIN: I haven't spoken to any of the guys. I think, you know, peer pressure does have some merit, but you have to have a certain relationship to be able to do that and I think, (1), that I don't want to waste my breath on anybody - not particularly -- I am not speaking in particular about Michael, but (2), I think one of the reasons Gully got the job five years ago or four years ago was because the USTA had confidence in him in being able to get the players to play. I think he has done a great job of that over the years and it is just a matter of -- I think -- I just think the guys are looking at some other things as priorities and whether it be Gully or whoever, I think it is just a losing battle at this point to get some of the guys to play.
Q. Speaking with your head instead of your heart, indoor surface, are you physically capable of playing three matches, singles, doubles, singles?
TODD MARTIN: I believe so. I am playing doubles here, so I am preparing to be able to play that much. The nice thing about Davis Cup is that -- (1) first of all, I have never been a part of a singles-doubles-singles tie for one -- for myself. I have never played all three matches and -- but the nice thing about that is that you don't have to just -- you know, you don't have to play all three, and if Gully wants me to play all three and I have a long match the first day and maybe come to the decision that it is not in our best interest to play the doubles, then I know we will have some other guys that can step in and fill that void.
Q. How do you think your game has progressed compared to pre-surgery, and are you in a position now where you feel you can give yourself a chance to win tournaments?
TODD MARTIN: I think so. I am pretty confident with the way I am playing. I am doing a number of things so much better than I used to; that that in itself encourages me day in and day out. But I am also doing some things maybe not quite as well and once those things click back in, which I think is really possible and probable, I think then I can expect myself to be around a little later in the tournaments again. And, if it doesn't happen, that is fine. I mean, I still feel like I am improving and that is why I am out here.
Q. What are some of those things you feel --
TODD MARTIN: Well, I feel loads more comfortable at the net than I used to. I feel better in the mid-court, getting to the net. I don't feel like I have to make everything quite so good as I used to. That is good because it shows some confidence in my volleys, but if you look at it the other way, didn't have to used to hit so many volleys, but the game is getting better, so, I am pleased with my volleys getting better and I think improving a little bit better than I used to. It is just a matter of -- not playing every point quite as soundly as I used to, not as -- when I was down breakpoint before, that is no sweat. I think I came -- I was really confident and came through it. Now maybe I am not just coming up with the serves or if I am up breakpoint not putting the ball in play as effectively as I used to. That is just a matter of time until that really gets back into the groove and I have had days and weeks that have had that, but as far as month in and month out, it hasn't quite been there.
Q. Talking maybe about instead of trying to knock off every volley for a winner just playing one deep, playable and knowing you are going to get a second volley?
TODD MARTIN: Well, I learned a lot last year watching Pat from my house. Unfortunately, later in the tournament here. He does a great job of taking what the return gives him. If the ball is up, he is going to smack it off and he does a great job of that. But if it is down and he is not in great position to do something with the ball, he does a real good job of just neutralizing the passer and putting himself in better position for the next ball to maybe be -- have the opportunity to knock that one off. I will never be as gifted at the net as Pat in terms of athleticism and also a feel and overall volley productivity, but I think I do a very adequate job of it now and I think I still have some room to improve.
Q. Do you think your winning spread makes a difference?
TODD MARTIN: I think it helps. Buy playing for two volleys rather than just trying to win the point off of one as much as I used to, I have been able to learn how to use my length a little bit better and also I feel in my movements since that has been a little bit better, I cover the second passing shot a little bit more than I used to. I felt like before, even in my best year, 1994, I felt like if I didn't do something real good with the first volley I was in a defensive position. And now, you know, I feel at least 50/50 and that is a step up - step in the right direction.
Q. Was there a particular point at a match this year where you felt things were turning around with your elbow? 
TODD MARTIN: I felt great in Barcelona this year, but it is not necessarily a realistic gauge of where my game was because the conditions made it so that the clay court was a pretty fast court. The ball was fairly quick. I was one of the only guys who probably prefers to play on a faster court and I played great the whole week. So it was a great situation for me. But against the stereotypical claycourter, I match up pretty well. It is against the guys who I don't match up as well with that I can really gauge where I am at.
Q. Increasing number of players seem to be guarding their quote off-season a little more zealously even though there isn't much of an off-season. When late November comes, where is your head in terms of getting away from the game because you have had a year off which maybe changes things a little bit, but ordinarily would you just want to get away from tennis?
TODD MARTIN: Yeah, I think my habit in the past has always been to risk more on the relaxed side than on the playing side, so I am much more keen to take more time off then less. I think it is very essential and necessary come the end of this year to shut down and give yourself a chance just to remove yourself from tennis. Some guys it might only take a week. Some guys it might take a month. For me I usually feel comfortable just taking a couple weeks off and slowly getting back into it and by about a week or two before I go down to Australia, I am close to full tilt again, but I make sure I take a few breaks during the year as well.
Q. Do you want to get away on some island?
TODD MARTIN: I think I am not a vacationer. When you travel 30 weeks a year, vacation is going home so Thanksgiving, I typically spend it in Michigan. And, Christmas last couple of years we have been down in Florida. So it gives me -- Thanksgiving is usually the time that I am pretty much to myself and so that when we spend Christmas down south, then I can get back on the court and start gearing up again.
End of FastScripts…. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT