REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 21, 1998
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Todd, were you expecting him to play so well today? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: That well, maybe not. But I was expecting him to play very well. But I also was expecting myself to play a little bit better than I did.  
 
Q. What was the main problem? The speed of his returns, the way he takes time from you? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: The biggest problem that he presents to anybody is the fact that he challenges you to beat him with the serve. If you don't, then it's difficult. He takes the ball so early, it feels like you're still in your follow through from your serve, and the ball is on. The way to counteract that is to make some first serves. That's something I didn't do today.  
 
Q. After such a week in Barcelona, do you think it was a little bit normal to have something like a letdown? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I definitely think that a little bit of a letdown is acceptable. There was a little bit of a letdown. I didn't adjust to the conditions very well, and I played against a great player playing very well. You know, the first two on my side of the net are a little bit, and the way he played just throws it all out of kilter. That's why it was so lopsided, the score.  
 
Q. After such a week in Barcelona, where you win a tournament, is it very disappointing in the next tournament to be out in the first round? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, no. I got my guarantee and I'm going home tomorrow (laughter). I'm making a joke. I hear so much that people come and lose easily. This is the first time I've lost this badly in a long time. But I do have to realize that I played very well last week, but I also need to work on some things. Last week I beat everybody who stood way back behind the court, except for Doesedel. Today somebody challenged me and I wasn't up to the challenge. There are things I need to work on. My clay court tennis is good. My hard court tennis is still maybe a little lacking (laughter). Today was a little much for me.  
 
Q. Are you surprised by the level of tennis, what Agassi played against you? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: No. I don't think anybody should be surprised. He's been playing very well.  
 
Q. I mean after the year that he didn't play so well. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: From '97 to '98?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Not entirely. I think when I saw him in January for the first time in a couple months, I knew he was more ready to play than he ever was last year. He had lost weight and was obviously in better condition. Once that happens, it makes hitting the tennis ball so much easier. It was bound to be a good year for him. All he needs to do is to be able to get to the ball. He can go months without picking up a racquet and he'd still hit the ball as well as most of the guys.  
 
Q. What are you going to do tomorrow? Will you watch the match against Agassi and Sampras? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I think tomorrow, since I have to come back for Rome, it makes no sense for me to stay around and watch. I'd be curious to see how their match goes. My priority has to be getting home, getting the rest that I'd like. The positive side of all this is once I can take a few days off, I have two good weeks worth of practice back home on the clay and to get ready for Rome. To be perfectly honest, these conditions are much more similar to the States, practicing, than last week. I'm just glad that -- I think -- Rome uses the Penn ball. I'll be excited to get back to Roland Garros where they use the Roland Garros ball.  
 
Q. What is your feeling about tomorrow's match? Do you think Pete has a chance, if Andre plays like that? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: A chance for sure.  
 
Q. A big chance? Do you put Andre as favorite? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, first of all, it's difficult to go out any day and play well. But it's also difficult, more difficult, to go out two days in a row and play extremely well. Andre played great today. Tomorrow, since he's playing Pete, since it's a big match for him, I'm sure he'll play very well again. It will be a different day. He'll have to face different challenges from Pete. Nobody knows how Pete's going to play. Pete could come out and be real relaxed and play great, like he did a few years ago in Rome, some other tournaments, or he could come out and you could see the fact that he hasn't played on clay in a long time and Andre could beat him.  
 
Q. If you had to put some money on somebody? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Gee, if I had to put money?  
 
Q. Your prize money today. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: As long as it's not last week's prize money (laughter). If I had to do that, I would put half on Pete, half on Andre (laughter). I think in some ways, Andre should have a better shot because I think early in the match, he'll be more comfortable than Pete will, just from being out there before, a little bit more used to the conditions. If one of them does not play well, that's it. They're both going to have to play very well for it to be -- for them to have equal chance.  
 
Q. In Barcelona, you played against Gaudenzi. Do you believe he has chances in this tournament to progress in this tournament? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Yes. I think that, yes, he has a good chance. I mean, first and foremost, he's a good player. He's comfortable on the clay. He serves well. He hits the ball very well from the baseline. I don't know who he plays. I wouldn't expect him to win the tournament, but I would expect him to challenge whoever he has to play, regardless of who he plays.  
 
Q. He's going to play Blanco. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I don't know how Blanco plays too much. Whoever plays well will win. I don't think there's one guy that should win that match.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT