US OPEN
August 28, 1997
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Q. First set, how much did that affect your whole game, that he came out on top?
 TODD MARTIN: Obviously I think it's a much different match at 5-3 I think when I served for the set. If I hold when I have set point, play a better game to win that, or play a better game at 5-All. I think the course of events from there might be a little bit better. That didn't happen. I didn't make that happen. Jonas did an awful lot of good things to make -- to not allow me to get through that first set. 
 Q. You haven't played in six months. Is this still a good tournament for you? 
 TODD MARTIN: Oh, it's awfully difficult for me to say hip, hip, hooray after tonight. I have to look at it as being a whole lot more fun and a lot better for me than to be sitting at home with the remote control in my hand. So I've got to look positively at it. I think tomorrow that will be easier to do. Hopefully I'll keep moving in the right track with my health and eventually be a hundred percent. 
 Q. Were you bothered at all by any elements? 
 TODD MARTIN: My elbow didn't feel as good as it did the other night. That has a lot to do with the way my opponent was playing. Against Jim, I could hit 105 miles an hour serves and I'd at least have some time to get to the net. Against Jonas, since he stands inside the baseline to return serve, the fact that my serves weren't penetrating very much really hurt me today. But that's not a glaring difference in what I did, but more a glaring difference in the difference in opponents. 
 Q. Are you going to stay around for the rest of the Open? 
 TODD MARTIN: Not for the rest of the Open. I'll probably stick around tomorrow and try to get out of here this weekend. 
 Q. Do you have a lot of family here, friends? 
 TODD MARTIN: I have no family here, but a fair number of friends. Just tie some loose ends up before I get out. 
 Q. Do a little shopping, sight-seeing? 
 TODD MARTIN: I sincerely doubt that. 
 Q. What were you thinking about in the third set?  
 TODD MARTIN: In the third set, I said, "Please let me have a game." 
 You know, when a guy's confident and playing well, like Jonas has been this summer, those matches finish a little bit easier than the rest. I started each set out poorly, and he made the most of it, at least the second two sets. The first set I think he was very fortunate to get away with. Still, I was down 3-1 early. That's no way to play tennis. But then again, I guess that is a lot better than not playing. 
 Q. Where do you go from here? 
 TODD MARTIN: I go back down to Florida, spend the next week down there, relaxing a little bit, getting back into physical therapy, trying to continue to develop my arm strength, keep the tendonitis down as much as possible. I'll do some charity things up in Michigan in the early part of the week of the 8th or 7th, somewhere in there. 
 Q. Does a match like tonight make you at all rethink coming back? 
 TODD MARTIN: No. This was one of the concerns that I had before deciding to play. I didn't want to take the spot away from somebody in the draw if I couldn't compete. Say I win my first round match, say I couldn't compete for my second round match, I wouldn't want to play. I sincerely felt good enough at the end of last week to at least give it a go. Played very well against Jim and felt fairly good after that. Today I didn't feel nearly as good as I did on Monday. Obviously, I was competitive. I had set point in the first set. At least I was with him a little bit in the second set. Holding serve two times in the last two sets is no way to be too competitive. 
 Q. Since you're from Lansing, did you watch any of the Red Wings playoffs? 
 TODD MARTIN: Yes. I watched too much of it. I'm usually out of the country when playoffs are going on. I guess it was a good time. If I had to be home at that time of year. For once it was nice to see the Red Wings win the playoffs. 
 Q. Once every 42 years. 
 TODD MARTIN: I wasn't around the first time. 
 End of FastScripts….  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT