U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1996
Todd Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Todd, can you tell us exactly what the problem is with the elbow and how it affected you this evening? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: The elbow felt fine.  
 
Q. No restriction at all? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Not really. I think the only problem out there today was that I wasn't comfortable playing without a real good serve against a guy who is aggressive. You know, the first set he jumped on me quickly and by the time I got up, it was -- you know, it was pretty late in the second set already. And then, gee, you know, I had my opportunities in the second. He played a couple good points. Actually I played one tentative point. Then in the tiebreaker, you know, it's easy. He shanks a return winner, and then at 4-All he catches one super clean, then he comes back with 124 and 119 first serves. There's a point where you have to say that's a little too good. The third, the same thing: I got down on myself and let him get an early break. It was just too late.  
 
Q. Can you see any improvement in his performance since Wimbledon? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Well, I think I played Tim tonight on one of his better nights. I don't know if he can play a whole lot better than that. You know, the only thing that I can be critical of - it's tough to be critical when you just get your can whipped - you know, he lost his focus a little bit, missed a few first serves when he needed them. But that was matched very well by his ability to rise to the occasion when he needed to. You know, that's the sign of a very good player. The let-ups are a sign of a guy who's not a hundred percent ready to do it. It's awesome, though, because I think he's got a lot of potential, and he should feel the same way. I guess the reason he was able to get back up for it when it came time to play was he kept his composure even through the downtimes.  
 
Q. And the foot fault, tough one? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I really think that people who get called for foot faults,- it's not a once-in-a-lifetime deal. I'm sure he's had foot faults called on him before. Obviously that one came at a difficult time for him. But it's obviously not a call you can argue.  
 
Q. Todd, this was a rematch of the Wimbledon when you were the bad guy in front of Tim's home crowd. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Didn't feel like he was the bad guy tonight. There were as many people rooting for him as me, till I started losing.  
 
Q. How did it feel out there? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Like I said, I think he's got a good fan base over here. I think that's the way it should be. For anyone who represents themselves and his country as well as Tim does, he deserves fans. I'd rather see him have fans than some of the other guys out here.  
 
Q. Todd, I apologize if you've been asked this question before. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Do you want to apologize for coming in so loud (laughter)?  
 
Q. What percentage fitness would you put yourself at right now? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: It's not real high. I really think by the time the middle of the second set came around, I felt pretty good, and I had to play with the cards that were dealt. You know, I had my chances, and he played better points than I did. Really the only thing that was affected was my serve. Usually that's a pretty large part of my game. But the other night with less of a serve, I was able to play much better. I think the reason for my drop in the level of my play is because of the way Tim played.  
 
Q. Do you feel at any point in the game you can turn it around? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: Yeah. You know, at 4-5, breakpoint twice, I thought I was in great shape. Gee, 2-3 or 3-4, I had breakpoint as well. You know, it's just who plays those points at the right time better, and tonight he did, which is not much different than our match in Wimbledon this year.  
 
Q. How tough do you think Stefan will be? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: For Tim?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I think you should ask the other way around. How tough can Tim make it for Stefan? Tim is going out there much the underdog, especially with the form that Stefan has been displaying. Don't let 30 years old and the sayonara tour fool you. He's 150 percent here, playing as well as I've seen him play in a few years. I think you're going to have a good match on your hands. I think obviously Stefan will come a little bit more equipped than I was able to tonight.  
 
Q. You have a chance now to repair the damage and rest or have you got a heavy program? 
 
 TODD MARTIN: I've got to make a trip to South America next week just for a few exhibitions. We'll see how that goes. Then I've got a break.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT