NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: SAN DIEGO
March 17, 2018
Donte Grantham
Gabe DeVoe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: The student-athletes for Clemson are Gabe DeVoe and Donte Grantham.  Questions for the student-athletes?   
 Q.  The Auburn players were asked about the reputation that Auburn is a football school.  Obviously Clemson has had a lot of success recently as well.  What is the relationship like between the two teams?  How does their profile help raise awareness of the basketball team as well?  
GABE DeVOE: Between football and basketball teams?  I'm friends with a lot of the guys.  I don't feel there is anything between us.  We're all friends.   
DONTE GRANTHAM: I agree with Gabe.  We're all friends.  We hang out sometimes.  They come and play basketball with us at our facility sometimes.  We're all cool.  We play Fortnite together.   
 Q.  Looking at Auburn, assess the game tomorrow?  
GABE DeVOE: They have good guards.  We have to limit their offensive rebounds, second chance points and do a good job on their three guards.   
DONTE GRANTHAM: Also, they're athletic.  They can run, jump, score.  They're a high, major team.  So we've gotta bring our A game.   
 Q.  As guys who are on social media and looking around and watching the tournament, what is your reaction?  Is it surreal to be in the middle of this thing as it goes on?  Did you guys watch?  You wouldn't have had a chance to see the 1-16 upset, but to see the reaction of it and still be fans?  How do you manage that while you're playing in it?  
GABE DeVOE: Yeah, they were going crazy yesterday in our game because they kept showing the game on the Jumbotron.  That was pretty cool seeing that.  I didn't expect that to happen at all.  I'm still a fan of the tournament, so being able to watch all these games and also be a part of it.  Anytime we have downtime I'm watching as many games as I can.   
 Q.  How did you find out about that upset?  Did it end when you guys were still playing?  How do you find out that that happened?  
GABE DeVOE: It ended when we were playing and the crowd reaction.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, gentlemen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT