TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2020
Mackenzie Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Mackenzie, how would you assess the day out there?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, I felt like I actually played quite nice and hit lots of great shots. Just wasn't quite able to score, and if I'd putted just a fraction better -- missed a lot of putts from 10, 12 feet, and yeah, make a few of those and the day looks pretty nice. Didn't quite make those today, and as a result kind of lost a bit of ground. Some guys went kind of low today.   
I'm still in a pretty good spot. I'd like to be a bit closer, but I still feel like for those guys, it will be tough to follow up those low rounds, so hopefully tomorrow I make my fair share of putts and get off to a fast start.   
 Q.  Is it tough when you're trying to go about your business and you see those low numbers like Dustin and Brandon are putting up out there?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, I definitely felt like on the back nine those guys were kind of starting to pull away, and I was just trying to make that one putt that would get me going. I had a great look on 13, 14; had it down in front on 15 and didn't make a birdie through that stretch, and that kind of hurts. Tomorrow I'll need to be pretty sharp and post a low score, but it's nice to play Sunday with a chance.   
 Q.  You had a low one obviously on Thursday and then two solid rounds as you kind of said. Do you feel like that -- I'm not saying a 10-under-par round but another low one like a 6-, 7-under par is within reach for you?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, for sure. Today if I had putt like I did the first day, I could have shot low 60s for sure. So tomorrow I'm going to need to be a tad sharper, but I mean, it's all right there. Play the same as I did today tee to green and roll in a few putts and it'll be awesome.   
 Q.  Is that a good feeling where you say it's all right there, knowing it's just making a putt or just something that you make it click and say here we go again?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, it's nice. Saying that is one thing and having it happen is another thing, but I do feel like it's close, and like I said, just to play on Sundays and to have a chance to win, that's all you can ask for. I have a chance tomorrow, and I'll have to be really sharp.   
 Q.  You've gotten off to strong starts here but it hasn't always translated to the weekend. What, if anything, is different this year?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: You know, not much is different. I just feel like this year as opposed to a couple other years, I really made a point of trying to stay aggressive now. It hasn't, I guess, panned out with a bunch of birdies, but two solid rounds. Following up the low round was a pretty good result. Now, would I have loved a few more each day, yeah. But I just tried to make sure I stayed on the aggressive front and not trying to let up too much. And then same thing tomorrow, I'll just need to be aggressive and try and make a bunch of birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT