TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2019
Mackenzie Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Followed you in Forth Worth at Colonial and playing really well there.  This is kind of a continuation.  The game is good, isn't it?
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, game has been pretty good the last few weeks.  Kind of somewhat in the mix there in Canada until Rory ran away with it.  Yeah, it's been nice.  Feel like any game is kind of rounding into form here, and nice to see some low scores.
I've been working hard, so low scores are nice to see.
Q. You're a big Raptors fan.  Obviously celebrating the NBA Championship.  Has that inspired you?
MACKENZIE HUGHES: I don't know if it's inspired me, but it's definitely been a nice high to be on.  Huge for the city, for the country.  Just a really fun time to be Canadian right now.  You got Brooke Henderson winning on the LPGA, winning her ninth tournament, which is awesome.
Just a lot of good things going on in Canada right now.
Q. We saw with you with a Kawhi Leonard jersey at the Canadian Open.  You played that one hole, The Rink.  Have you met Kawhi?
MACKENZIE HUGHES: I've met Kawhi.  That was sort of my small little pitch to keep him in Toronto.  Yeah, we'll see if he stays.  We would all love to have him again for another three, four years.  July 1st will come around and we'll see what happens.
Yeah, maybe one day I'll get to meet him.
Q. Lastly, how big was that for Toronto and the country to win the NBA Championship?  Was that the biggest sporting championship since maybe the Canadians won their last NHL championship?
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, I would say maybe the Blue Jays winning the World Series.  That's probably the next big thing after what we just did there with the Raptors.  It's been a lot fun.  Hopefully the Leafs can follow suit here shortly.
Q. Good round.  You've had some good form lately playing up in Canada, home, a couple weeks ago.  Just talk about this round today.
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, it was a great round.  Definitely wasn't perfect by any means, but when I missed greens, got up and down.  Made two or three nice putts from the 15 to 20 foot range, which really gets your round going.
Again, on the last hole there I think I had about 18, 20 feet and rolled one in.  Yeah, feel nice with the putter.  Overall, felt good about my swing and the way I was striking it, too.
Q. You mentioned earlier being from Canada and seeing Brooke Henderson complete her ninth victory to get that record, and of course the Raptors winning and you're a big fan.  Just talk about that and how proud you are being a Canadian right now.
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, it's been a great time in Canada with the Raptors coming off a big high there with the NBA Championship and then Brooke Henderson winning her ninth to be the most winningest player in Canadian history.
A lot of good things going on, and definitely trying to kind of ride off the coat tails of some other great Canadians right now.
Q. What was the most consistent part of your day today?
MACKENZIE HUGHES: I would say I putted great, but I also drove the really well.  Put the ball in the fairway a lot, so that's going to make your day a little bit more stress-free.
So I would say I was steady off the tee and putted very nicely.
Q. You're a winner out here.  Are you getting more comfortable on the PGA Tour?
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, I think this is my third year now, and last year I struggled a little bit in my sophomore season.  Kind of had some changes off the course.  Had a son and things were just a little bit different.
So I'm really kind of starting to settle in now and feel like my game is in a good place.  I'm in a good place off the course with everything.  My team, I like where that's all at right now.
Just getting comfortable and starting to believe in myself more.  When I start doing the right things I know I can get up there and contend and win tournaments.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT