THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2020
Mackenzie Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great finish, 66-66 on the weekend after making the cut on the number. What a run you made this weekend. You have to be very proud of yourself.  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, it's been a really tough season so far for me. I knew I was never really that far off, but it's all results, and the results weren't good so far this year. I always believed I could do it, but until you do it and get yourself back in there, there was always that bit of doubt.   
I mean, this golf course I knew would bring out my best because it's just such a grind, and you just have to hang in there, just hang in there and hang in there. I mean, I just fought my butt off all weekend. Yeah, it was a lot of fun to be back in the mix, though.   
 Q.  16 you had that vicious lip-out for par, and you come to the 17th and from 54 feet roll in that putt. That had to be exhilarating.  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, 16 was tough. You know, didn't put it in a good spot off the tee and didn't draw a great lie, and the putt I thought I had just gutted, and it came right back at me. 17, got away with one. I kind of push-fanned one and it was on the green, and I stole my caddie, and I was like, let's just try and make Sungjae's putt a little harder. That's a huge bonus that that ball would drop in. I haven't been that excited on the golf course in a long time.   
Unfortunately I'm standing there in 18 fairway, I just -- it's a tough shot. Wind is in off the right, and you're trying to cut one but you can't over-cut it because then you're going to be knocked down by the wind. I was grinding my butt off and unfortunately just one short, but I had so much fun this week.   
 Q.  Just a little bit short, but what a great week for you. If we can get some comments.  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, super fun week. I've had a very tough season so far and don't feel like I've played poorly. I've missed a lot of cuts by two, three shots, and I've had my chances to play the weekend, but things just were falling short there at the end. I never felt like I was far away from being in a spot like this, and I knew that this golf course would be a great fit for just the grind -- make a bunch of pars, throw in the odd birdie, and I've always loved coming to this place. It tests every part of your game, and it's mostly just mental.   
So I had just tons of fun competing. I love being in the mix. I love having a chance to win, and yeah, so I mean, it sucks to come up one short, to fight that hard all day. I just kind of thought I was going to do it. But still proud of the way I fought this week and looking forward to the rest of the year.   
 Q.  Did anything change from Friday to Saturday?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: No, not really. You know, my college golf coach, he texted me on Friday night, and he said, you know what, the hard part is over. I missed five cuts, and I always said when the hard part is over you're on the weekend. It kind of loosened me up a little bit and I said, let's just go out there and play golf and see what happens. I was just a little bit more at ease on Saturday, and once I posted 4-under, I knew that was going to give me a chance on Sunday, and then again, I knew I probably needed the same kind of round on Sunday, but just the confidence of doing it the day before, I thought, I can do this.   
I had a great feel with a lot of the shots I was hitting this week, and yeah, it was just -- it was nice to be in there because it's been a while.   
 Q.  Have you played with Sungjae before?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: I have not. I actually was kind of joking to myself coming up 18, I was like, man versus machine. I'm the man, hitting shots in bunkers and hitting the grandstands on 18 and he's just like a machine. It was really impressive. He played great golf, a great start, which I think actually kind of helped me a little bit because I was like, I've got to go get this guy. He's 4-under through five, I've got to chase him a little bit. So I thought early on, he seemed to have it beat, and I was like, just hang with him and keep it close and anything can happen down the last few holes.   
He honestly hit two incredible shots into 15 and 17, and he's very, very deserving, obviously, of winning.   
 Q.  What was that like having Albin in your group? You guys go way back.  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, that was really crazy. The chance of him being in our group were -- like this is the first time he's caddied for Sungjae and we're paired together on Sunday. I thought it was kind of a dream come true because you get to walk with -- my caddie is a good friend of mine, and I get to walk with Albin who I've known since junior golf days. It was a lot of fun. We had a few good laughs out there, and he might be caddying a little bit more in the future, I think, but we'll see.   
I also wanted to say one more thing. I had a friend of mine who passed away last week in Charlotte, Daniel Meggs, and all week I marked my ball with his initials, and I just want to tell Daniel, who's up in a better place now, and his family, that I'm really thinking about them. Daniel was an incredible human being, golfer at Wake Forest, and I was playing for him this week. I always play for myself, but I looked down at my ball every now and then and just reminded myself that it's a blessing to be able to have another round of golf, to continue to play this great game, and I know what he wouldn't give for another chance to play a round of golf or to be with his family.   
I just wanted to give a shout-out to Daniel Meggs and his family and tell them I'm thinking about them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT