RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2018
Mackenzie Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was a heck of a finish there.  What turned it around?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: I don't know.  No answers.  I don't know.  No, I mean, I was playing well today and I got a tough break on 11.  Hit a great drive, middle of the fairway, and had like the worst divot I've ever been in in my life.  And I normally don't skull over the green, and I skulled over the green, made a 6 there, and I was 2-under in a good spot going into the back nine.   
But, unlike maybe yesterday where I was probably a bit impatient at times, I just told myself I was playing well and had some chances coming in and kind of got hot there.   
 Q.  You finished up with almost an albatross on 18 there.  What did you hit out of the bunker?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Did it come close to going?   
 Q.  It was like --  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, once I saw it kind of land just short and it was kind of coming across the green, I saw it go in and it looked like it had a chance.  I had 7-iron from 200 yards, and I kind of thought, well, I could lay-up, but that wouldn't be very fun and I'm not here to finish 30th.  So I was thinking if I could knock it on and potentially make a three I might put myself kind of close-ish.  So almost got it, but 4 is pretty good too.   
 Q.  On number 7, you had a Leafs jersey that you were wearing?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah.   
 Q.  Where did you get the Leafs jersey, and I saw you gave it away to a young fan?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, so the RBC Canadian Open tournament staff left a jersey in my locker, actually, for the week.  So I actually have -- well, they gave me another one, and they told me why don't you sign it and give it away to one of the fans, and I said, yeah, that's fine with me.  So I signed it before the round, and after I was on the green, I tried to find a young Leafs fan in the crowd, found one, and gave it to him.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: I signed my name, so it's not as cool, but...   
 Q.  Are you a Leafs fan?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Big Leafs fan.   
 Q.  Excited about Taveras joining the team?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Very excited.  He's coming to an already very talented roster, so I think the next three, four years with him will help us out.   
 Q.  What does it mean as a Canadian to be in front of the home crowd in contention come Sunday?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, it's fun.  I don't know how far away the leaders are going to get.  I hope that they keep playing, the wind keeps blowing, because it was tough for us out there.  We had rain, we had wind, so it feels good, exciting.  And I'm just hoping that I'm still within distance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT