RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2018
Mackenzie Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  36 holes in the books; how do you feel about your play so far?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: It's been okay.  I've played the par-5s 1-under in two days, which is just not good enough.  If I'm not average on par-5s I'm right in the tournament right now.  As it is, I'm pretty far back, but if the wind picks up this afternoon and the guys stay around 12, 13-ish, I may have a chance with a couple low ones on the weekend, but first and foremost, got to play the par-5s better if I want to contend.   
 Q.  Tougher start to the season, but the last few tournaments things are really looking good for you.  How do you feel about your game right now?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, it's definitely been going in the right direction.  I think more than anything, it's just the confidence building and the belief coming back.  I know I can compete with these boys and play well out here, it's just a matter of seeing the results, shooting some low scores, and the last month, month and a half has been pretty good.   
 Q.  You probably have more rounds on this golf course -- I don't know, maybe Mike Weir has more, but in terms of Canadians, does the familiarity almost play a negative, like you know it too well in some cases?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: I would love to play every tournament of the year out here at the Abbey.  I would take the home course advantage every time or the sort of local knowledge.  But no, I love coming back here.  I've got good memories, and the crowds have been awesome.  So it's been a lot of fun so far.   
 Q.  No. 7, wearing the sweater, maybe a little bit of good luck?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: I figured -- I go up there, and I was like -- I was trying to figure out if I could do it, if I could hit a chip without the sleeves getting in the way and the Leafs emblem all over my chest getting a little bunched up, but I was like, this is very chip-in-able, and if I do it with the jersey on, it's way cooler, so I was like, just leave it on, and sure enough, it went in.  So that was pretty cool.   
 Q.  Could be a good omen for the team this year?  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: You know what, I don't know if they need my help.  They look pretty good.   
 Q.  You talked about being inconsistent with the par-5s and not being happy.  Anything consistent --  
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Not really.  It wasn't for lack of chances, just not really capitalizing.  Like 16 I thought I hit a pretty good drive where I thought it was decent and it kind of just drifted in the right rough, and from there I hit it right of the green and didn't get up-and-down.  18, this morning I had one hole left, and I hit a great drive, had 7-iron in, but the pin was kind of back left and I hit it kind of middle left and I had to putt kind of through the fringe and ended up three-putting from there.  It hasn't been one particular thing, I just haven't put it in the right spots to make 4.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT