WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2021
Mackenzie Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Talk about your win today over Webb.
 MACKENZIE HUGHES:   Yeah, it was a great match.  Webb obviously has a tremendous record, like my opponent yesterday, and I knew I had my hands full, so it was a lot of the same, just trying to play good golf and see where that put me, not try to play him too much, just try and play good golf.  Yeah, I was fortunate a couple times today, a couple holes where I feel like I kind of stole one maybe and then played well the last kind of five, six holes there to close it out.
 Q. Is that tough sometimes to focus on just playing golf and not your opponent in match play?
 MACKENZIE HUGHES:   Yeah, I mean there was a few times I caught myself trying to play my opponent and then again I would remember, hey, it's match play and anything can happen, right?  You kind of have to expect the unexpected.  Things can happen quickly.  So it is tough, but yeah, the more you can do that the better off you are.
 Q. I know you said it's been awhile since you played match play, but in beating the two opponents you have, what does that say about you as maybe as a match play player?
 MACKENZIE HUGHES:   Well I think I love the fact that it's just you versus one other guy and there's nothing else to worry about.  Really it's not about shooting 65, it's just about beating that guy and whatever that takes that day.  There's something very simple about it, very pure.
 Stroke play, there's a lot of different things going on, there's so many guys in play, match play it's just mano-a-mano and it's kind of fun, we don't get to do it very often.  So I've been enjoying it so far and hopefully it keeps going a little more.
 Q. You're in the driver's seat heading into your match tomorrow.  What's your mentality?  What do you bring to the course tomorrow, your focus and stuff like that?
 MACKENZIE HUGHES:   Yeah, a lot of the same stuff.  I play Talor tomorrow, another tough opponent.  Played well two weeks ago at PLAYERS and has been playing well, so I know I've got my hands full again, and every match you come out to this week is really tough.  So just trying to do the same things, put a lot of balls in play, hit a lot of greens and see if we can roll in a few putts.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT