TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2020
Mackenzie Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Mackenzie, obviously not holding a trophy, but a nice way to finish with those two long putts at the end?
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, those last two holes were a huge bonus. The weekend was pretty frustrating for me. I felt like I was playing well enough to shoot some better scores, and just wasn't quite happening for me. You know, something that makes me forget about some of those missed puts I had in the middle of the round and yesterday, as well. Yeah, lots of positives. Obviously starting the way I did, it would have been nice to carry that forward and win this week, but my game is showing some good signs, and proud of the way I played this week.
Q. How crazy was it to have those long putts with nobody there?
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, you know, that was definitely weird. Like I hit the putt on 17, and I mean, that was a putt that would just make people erupt, the way it was a pretty dramatic putt. It broke 20 feet, went in with perfect speed. That would have been really exciting. Again, 18 would have been an amphitheater and it would have, again, kind of charged the crowd up again. Yeah, it was definitely different to hear crickets when you make some putts, but I was happy nonetheless.
Q. Can you talk a little bit more about each one of them specifically, what you were seeing?
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, so the 17th hole, it was about 50 feet, and Kevin's coin was in a good spot where I felt like I just needed to get it going down the hill just right of his coin, and once it started turning right towards the hole, I knew it was going to be a pretty good putt. Didn't know how good, and my caddie had a great look at it, and he was just kind of talking to it, talking to it, and again, when that drops in, just an incredible bonus.
And then 18, putt was breaking like probably four feet left to right and had to come up a rise. Again, it's just a putt that you're trying to get close, and with about 10 feet to go, I knew it had a really good chance to go in. The fact that they both went in was one of the craziest things I've ever done.
Q. Just overall looking ahead to the next couple of weeks, what's your schedule? How are you feeling generally as you look ahead in this return to golf?
MACKENZIE HUGHES: Yeah, so I'm going to skip the Rocket Mortgage next week and I'm going to try to play both at Muirfield and then probably the 3M, as well, and then we'll see from that point on where I'm at. I'd like to get into the PGA hopefully. I think I'm close on that. So yeah, we'll see. I feel good with my game, and I'm excited to play some golf coming up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT