MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 16, 2013
Matt Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about your conversation with Robbie when you hit him, and how you felt about the whole situation?
MATT HARVEY:   Obviously that was the last thing I wanted to do was go out there and possibly injure somebody.   As he was walking by, I was trying to kind of get his attention as he was going to first, and you know, when he then came off, obviously I apologized and made sure that he was okay.   You know, I think he understood that, you know, it wasn't intentional, obviously.   I apologize. 

Q.   Obviously a lot going into the start of this All‑Star Game; was it everything you thought it would be, and more? 
MATT HARVEY:   Oh, it was, absolutely.   It was so much fun.   Just being in the locker room with all the guys, the whole experience, the Red Carpet; it being in New York, and starting, as a kid, I don't think you could have dreamed of doing something like that.   It was a tremendous honor, and something I'm very thankful for. 

Q.   You're the personification of cool and calm, but were there any jitters when you got to the mound and when they hit the first pitch off you?
MATT HARVEY:   I was texting with LaTroy Hawkins after I came out, and he asked, he said, you look like you're walking in the park.   Obviously there was some jittering going in the bullpen but for some reason once I got out there, I felt great and felt like I was at home.   I kind of wish there was some more jitters, but they didn't come and everything felt great.

Q.   I know you said it wasn't an issue, even the last start everything and, but the blister was no issue whatsoever?
MATT HARVEY:   No, it's healed up pretty great.   It feels fine.   I was able to finally throw my slider again, so that was definitely a big help, and you know, I'm glad everything's healthy going into the second half. 

Q.   You've said that you hope the guys that came before you, you made them proud, Seaver and Gooden; how do you think you did tonight?
MATT HARVEY:   Did all right.   Obviously the first pitch down the line was a tough way to start the game, but you know, I think I settled in there pretty well, and I did everything I could.   That's all I could ask for. 

Q.   What did you think of the atmosphere in the stadium when you were standing out there? 
MATT HARVEY:   I mean, you know, when I'm warming up out there and they start chanting my name, that's‑‑ again, that's something that you, as a kid, I don't think you could ever imagine.   This whole experience has been absolutely incredible for me.   You know, something I'll never forget. 
The whole thing has been absolutely incredible and I couldn't be more thankful of the support. 

Q.   As you walked off the field, the crowd got louder as you got closer to the dugout and you kept your head down; what were you thinking there just between the mound and the dugout?
MATT HARVEY:   I'm used to walking off in the second inning and going back out there, so I didn't really pay attention to it.   I wish I had kind of stayed in the moment a little bit and gave a head‑nod or whatnot.   But the thanks was there, and they have been great all year, the fans.   I'm very thankful. 

Q.   When you released that pitch and going toward kind of his knees, what's going through your mind? 
MATT HARVEY:   Well, we had called fastball in there, and I knew I had to get it inside, but obviously I didn't want to get in that much.   You know, once I let it go, I could kind of feel it, that I cut it a little bit. 
So I was hoping he was going to be able to get out of the way, but unfortunately, you know, he didn't.   I definitely didn't‑‑ it definitely was not intentional.

Q.   I know it's the All‑Star Game, and it's not a regular‑season game, but you're still facing no outs, two guys on and the best hitter in the planet up.   Can you talk about the at‑bat against Cabrera?
MATT HARVEY:   That was one I knew I was going to have to buckle down and obviously the last thing I want to do is get 3‑0 and no outs in an All‑Star Game.   I knew that I had to make good pitches, and obviously throwing to the best catcher in the game, you know, it makes it a lot easier just to trust him and go with what he calls. 
So you know, luckily it was in favor of me and Yadi, and I was able to get him out there. 

Q.   A year from now, what do you think will be the memories that stand out most for you in the whole experience?
MATT HARVEY:   Well, I hope it's not the cleats that I was wearing (Laughter. 
No, just meeting everybody, being in the locker room, playing with David, that was the biggest thing.   I think as a kid, you dream of sitting on the side as the Home Run Derby is going on, and that was an awesome event.   The support that was given in the Red Carpet, that was undescribable.   This whole experience has just been, you know, breathtaking. 

Q.   The way that this thing is going right now, what's the atmosphere like in the dugout? 
MATT HARVEY:   Well, I haven't had a chance to get back out there, but as soon as I'm done with here, I'll head back down and see how the team is going and cheer the team on, and hopefully we can score some runs.

Q.   What is the story with the shoes you were wearing? 
MATT HARVEY:   I don't know, it seemed like everybody was wearing something pretty flashy.   I guess the theme of this year's All‑Star Game was the flashy cleats.   I was talking to David and I asked him if he was going to wear his.   He said, "Yeah, you're not going to wear them during a regular game, so you might as well wear them now while you can."








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT