USA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
June 27, 2016
Jerry Colangelo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q. Jerry, your thoughts on the event today, what was your favorite part of it? 
JERRY COLANGELO: My favorite part of this whole program today was the expressions on the faces of the kids, the excitement, the enthusiasm of them having a chance to see, meet, and greet people that they admire as athletes, NBA players and the best players in the world. That gave me a big thrill. 

Q. What's different this time? You've done this now for 12 years. Each time is different. What is the biggest change as you're going into 2016? 
JERRY COLANGELO: Well, I think this time around we had some unusual obstacles to get over. The typical concern each quad in terms of players' availability is predicated on injuries, on contract negotiations, family issues, whatever, it was exacerbated this time around by circumstances in Rio that people were concerned about. So there was a further challenge. 
But I couldn't be more pleased with what we have in the way of a team. This is a very solid, strong team, athletic. We have size, shooting, great defense, and a great bunch of guys, full of character. So I think we're over the hump, over the major obstacle, and we're looking forward to Rio. 

Q. Sounds like you're ready to start practice now? 
JERRY COLANGELO: Yeah, we have to wait a couple of weeks before we can do that, but I would agree with you. I think the other thing that's happened here with us is that this was a great opportunity in a day, day and a half where our players start the bonding that usually takes place when you're bringing a group of guys together. 
Make no mistake about it, we're building a new team for USA Basketball here, because there are a number of players who are here for the first time. But it's a great blend of experience and youth and, again, I think the overriding thing I see with this group is there's a lot of character. I think they all get along extremely well, so it should be a tight group. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT