MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2017
Kathy Olivier
Dakota Gonzalez
Paris Strawther
Brooke Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UNLV - 68  Utah State - 43
COACH KATHY OLIVIER: I just felt like we had one of our best complete games of the season.  We had so many options out there.  And when our defense plays with that kind of intensity and that kind of effort our defense creates our offense and it kind of opened the game up.
This team has so many options and that's what makes us a good basketball team.  It's not just one player, it's several players.  To have four players in double figures, and to play that kind of tenacious defense is pretty much what the Lady Rebels are all about.
Q. 55-53 in overtime, second game you lose 58-49.  Tonight as you said the offense picked up.  The defense turned it into offense for you.  What was different, though, that you couldn't get done in the first two games?  What was so motivating?  Was it the tournament itself, was it time to prepare?
COACH KATHY OLIVIER: For one of these gals?
Q. Any one of the players.
DAKOTA GONZALEZ: Yeah, I would say that, you know, one thing that we definitely take a lot of pride in here is our defense.  And nothing but respect for Utah State, but as far as we go, I don't think we put our best foot forward defensively in the first two games that we played against them.  And we definitely came into this game understanding that but not letting it be something that hindered us, we used it as a motivation to come out and have that defensive intensity tonight.
Q. The first half you were a little apprehensive as far as your aggressiveness, which is something you worked on coming into the season and you became very aggressive.  Was part of that possibly tension between the teams and you got comfortable because you opened up and started grabbing rebounds the second half?
PARIS STRAWTHER: I think some of it has to do with the recent foul calls.  So I just want to make sure I stay in the game and don't take myself out by getting more fouls.  But at the end of the day I have to realize that I'm an aggressive player.  But still play aggressive but play smart.  And I think that's what came out more in the second half.
Q. Yesterday we were talking about the loss to Fresno State last year, the sting of that, revenge is on the mind.  What's different about this team that will enable you guys to get that revenge?
DAKOTA GONZALEZ: I would say that this team is just a special team overall.  And we're definitely, kind of like I spoke with you the other day, we used those feelings that we had in that loss last year throughout I think this entire season.  And I think that's what's been able to get us so much success because we've found ourselves facing certain adversities that are very difficult for any team to overcome.  And we've been able to come together and pull out a lot of difficult wins.
Coming up with Fresno, having that in mind of last year, we're going to come up with that same mindset and staying together.  This group has done an incredible job of that throughout the entire season.  And I have no doubt we'll do our best tomorrow to make sure we all have that same mindset.
Q. Brooke, it seems -- you seemed a lot more patient this year in terms of whether you're going to take a shot, pass the ball up.  And you seem to hit your stride at the right time.  It's like timely.  When you hit one you just take off and you get hot.  What's been the difference for you, and you just seem to get in a groove and you set a record, a school record for Mountain West tournament game for 3's?
BROOKE JOHNSON: Personally I feel I've been more hesitant than patient.  There's games I've gone full force and missed quite a few shots and there are games I haven't taken any shots and been overly passive.  Tonight I tried to find that balance and take a shot when I was open, and once I hit one I was feeling comfortable enough to take another one and pass when I needed to.
Q. Talk about defense.  I believe it was 13 steals.  You had eight of them.  That number jumped out at me when I saw it.  Did the ball seem bigger on the defensive end where you could bat it away?
DAKOTA GONZALEZ: I would say that, honestly, my teammates made it so almost effortless to get the steals, because they did an incredible job on our defensive rotations.  We focus so much on that in practice and we drill it every single day.  When they're able to get those rotations and stops it makes it easy for me to get in position and get the steals.
As far as on-ball pressure goes, I definitely took that to heart to pressure the ball because I know for myself I did not have very great games against Utah State both showings.  I wanted to do what I could defensively to lead the team.  That was my main focus today.  And my teammates definitely helped me out with that and I'm super proud with the outcome.
Q. What feels different?  It's tournament time now, you obviously stepped up today.  What felt different for you?
BROOKE JOHNSON: Well, we're used to the Thomas & Mack gym.  We love that gym.  And so I just kind of feel comfortable in there and it's our own area.  Other than that it's just when one goes and starts to get a feel for the rim, for the game, and that's kind of how I go from it.  If I miss a shot I'm going to try to drive in a couple of times.  And since I didn't miss the three, I didn't have to drive in as much tonight.
Q. Local girl, you got a bit of a hometown crowd.  This is your second time around on the Mountain West Tournament, were you feeling more comfortable, less jitters knowing you had that corner over there cheering for you?  I think Coach Kaps was here, too.
PARIS STRAWTHER: I love playing in front of my hometown and all of my people.
And as far as being in the Mountain West Tournament for the second time, definitely feel more comfortable, but I just feel that the adrenaline in such a good way as far as not being as timid like I was last year not knowing what to expect.
It's a fun time of year.  I'm excited to see where it takes us.
Q. All these positive points and positive remarks, big question here, 60 points from four players, eight from four others.  Is that a concern that you maybe need more balance as far as from other players or are you happy with four main scorers?
COACH KATHY OLIVIER: I think that's our strength right now.  We have so many options out there, as much as it was four, we feel like the other people can score just as much.  When you talk about Brooke's 3's, we were moving the ball so well as a team, it was very obvious that it was about playing good basketball, and not about me scoring.  And we do that, we play the defense that Dakota was talking about and move the ball, we're going to be a very tough basketball team to beat.
Q. (INAUDIBLE)?
COACH KATHY OLIVIER: Fresno State is a good basketball team.  They have a very good center inside that does a great job blocking shots.  She's long, length.  Help me --
PARIS STRAWTHER: Bego.
COACH KATHY OLIVIER: But she's that presence inside, we can't get intimidated by her, but she does an incredible job.  They play a lot of zone, a lot of man, they mix it up.  So we have to make sure we're playing together as a team on the offensive side.  We only played them once.  It's Fresno State and Boise were the two teams we only played once this year.  The first time around I thought we did a great job on the defensive end.  If we can come out with that defensive intensity that makes us successful then hopefully we'll get that W.
Q. I know the mood that you're in getting back from Logan last week.  You told me the players were even worse.  How easy was it for you to motivate them tonight?
COACH KATHY OLIVIER: It was easy.  This group is a very competitive group, they're determined.  No one was happy.  I remember you guys had me on the radio right after, I think it was the next day or actually it was that day we got home.  And they're just a competitive group.  They weren't happy.  They weren't happy in the airport.  They weren't happy after the game.  And we just had a sour taste in our mouth and everyone worked hard in practice.  And it was actually kind of good for us to play Utah State because I knew that that was on their mind.  It's the team that always likes to pay back, so to speak.
So Fresno State, I mean, that's going to be a complete different game.  And we just prep for them so we have to make sure that we continue to go with that kind of focus and that determination that we did have tonight.
Q. Before you play you see that the team -- the bracket is kind of laid out.  Was there a bump, now it's laid out for us, just take advantage of tonight and tomorrow maybe becomes a little different?
COACH KATHY OLIVIER: Right.  I would love to say that and I hear you on that.  But I think this team is just whoever is in front of us, let's go.  And I feel strongly that the team thinks they could have won the Mountain West.  And we were, kind of like I said, mad about losing to a couple of teams that we shouldn't have.  And they're excited about the tournament.  And they're like, bring it, it doesn't matter who we play against.
The Mountain West, I think it's a great conference this year because so many teams are capable of winning.  So we have to make sure we don't look past anyone.  And again, bring that defensive intensity that we stressed all year, and that's when good things happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT