NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: SAN JOSE
March 23, 2019
Ritchie McKay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: We'll have Coach give us an opening statement, and then we will open it up to questions.   
RITCHIE MCKAY: Good afternoon.  We're excited to be here.  Obviously round of 32, had a fun evening last night because it was neat to see our guys stay collected and connected.  Having a chance to advance is really special.  So we're excited about the opportunity.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  
RITCHIE MCKAY: Thank you.   
 Q.  In early November you were there side by side with Buzz in the post-game press conference talking about how long you guys had known each other and all that.  Have you had a chance to kind of sink in and reflect and now you're going to be the two teams, two coaches, on the same court in the NCAA Tournament tomorrow?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: I never really thought about it.  When we had won the ASUN championship against a really good Lipscomb team in Nashville and I started looked at some of the bracketologists, there were a couple of them, including Joe Lunardi, that said we might play Virginia Tech.  And I think Buzz and I had one conversation during the week that was unrelated to that.  And I started asking, if we play you, do we need to change our calls, because they'll have every single call.  He's got 76 people on his staff, and I'm sure -- no, just kidding.   
But I have the utmost respect for Buzz Williams.  Not just as a coach.  He's a really, really good coach.  Like the stuff they run offensively is nightmares to prepare for.   
I was back at the hotel probably 10:30 and started watching film, and I finally gave up about 2:00 something.  Like no way to prepare for all that stuff.   
But Buzz is also a wonderful person.  Not many people know all the things that he does for people.  And I hope he doesn't mind me sharing, but I know a few coaches who have lost their jobs during this time of year, and Buzz just loves on them.  Like he'll fly them into Blacksburg or to the ACC Tournament, pay all their expenses, bring their children.  And he never, ever talks about it.  But I know four of them that he's done that for, and he does it out of his own pocket.  He's an exceptional person.  I really, really like him.  But I want to beat him.   
 Q.  Coach, you said you were watching film about 10:30 last night back at the hotel room.  Did you permit yourself a chance to enjoy this?  Did you do anything to celebrate the school's first tournament win?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: Not really.  I'm very competitive, so, I mean, it was nice enjoying it after the game with the guys, the celebration in the locker room.  And once I started the Virginia Tech stuff, I didn't stop much.  So, yeah, I enjoyed it.  I had a lot of text messages that I tried to reply to most.  If I haven't gotten to them, I apologize, if you're listening to this press conference.   
But I'm obviously excited.  This is the most enjoyable time of year for coaches and players.  And don't get me wrong, I'm competitive and want to prepare for Tech the best I can, but I also know this is a great privilege and honor that we have it.   
 Q.  Is there anybody that you heard from in particular that you didn't expect to hear from, text messages?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: Like I had over 300-and-something messages.  A few people I hadn't heard from in a while.  And they're not on my text chain, so that means I probably haven't heard from them since I got my new phone, which is about 10 months ago.  But I think sometimes when you have the national spotlight and you've been in it as long as I have, you hear from really good people.  So I'm very flattered by that.   
 Q.  You spoke last night a lot about Caleb, but for an offense that is as unselfish -- or a team that's as unselfish as this one, for Caleb to put up 30 points is a rarity.  As you've had time to look back at it, how special was the night that he had to put this team on his back and get this team to the 2nd round?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: Yeah, I just think he was cooking.  He felt it.  I think when he got fouled with whatever, however much time was left, and we were down 10 and he went to the line and made three, just seeing the ball in consistently, I think, usually lends for heightened sense of the rim being bigger.  And it seemed like for Caleb it was like that.   
But, again, the guys that were on the floor with him at the same time did I thought yeoman's work in trying to get him some good looks, and they really had the spirit of execution down the stretch.  But Caleb is terrific.  Again, he's a multi-tool player offensively.  And he's not just a scorer.  But he knew we needed him to score last night, and he did a great job.   
 Q.  You've been scouting them.  What did you see out of Justin Robinson in his first game back last night, and how does his presence change what they do?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: 5 is special.  He's a tremendous player.  I think he's a pro.  He's got unbelievable vision.  What he brings to Virginia Tech is a heightened sense of confidence.  Obviously he'll probably have to shake off some rust, but he's a terrific player.  He's one of the best guards that we've faced all year.  And we've faced some really good ones.  So I expect him to have a major impact on the game.   
 Q.  Coach, this is similar to Mark's questions, but back in 2015 I think Tech and Liberty combined for four conference wins and 46 losses.  Now that you guys are going to play in the Sweet 16, do you see some similarities in the way -- the trajectory of the two schools and the way that you've tried to build things in Lynchburg and the way Buzz has done things in Blacksburg?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: If I'm compared to Buzz as a coach, that's a compliment.  But if you know Buzz, he's so eccentric.  Like he's -- he's different.  And I mean that in a positive way.  I actually have so much respect for the type of program that he's built.  I went up there I want to say about nine months ago and just spent about a half a day with him.  And like his mind thinks way differently.  The stuff he does, the journalling, like he's a master at it.   
So do I think there's some similarities there?  I think both programs are invested in the pursuit of excellence.  I think both administrations really support our basketball programs and have given us or afforded us the opportunity and the resources to build a program.  And I think they have a different type of player than we do.  But I think we both recruit to our systems.   
 Q.  I didn't realize you were serious yesterday about In-N-Out Burger, and I was hoping you could tell us about the trip and its place in Liberty history.  
RITCHIE MCKAY: (Laughs.)  I didn't go to In-N-Out Burger.  The players did.  They dropped us off at the hotel.  When you are my weight and my body fat, you get exempted from opportunities like that.  But I think the players enjoyed it, and yeah, it was good.  They need to have a little fun once in a while.   
 Q.  And what did you end up eating?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: I think I had a bar, a snack bar from -- it might have been from the locker room in there.  I just, yeah, try not to eat too late.  Yeah.  I ate a lot this morning.   
 Q.  In a quick-turnaround game like this, is it helpful that you had that experience of playing them in November in the exhibition game, or is it so long ago that you can't remember anything from that?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: It might be helpful from the standpoint we know their personnel and we've seen them before.  But they're way different than they were in November.  He didn't even have any offense in in November.  Now he's got 172 plays in.  So, yeah, way different.   
But we're different.  And I think we've improved.  We've played in a really competitive league against some really well-coached teams, especially Lipscomb.  Like I think they won today in the NIT.  So I think we're different and we're a little better.   
 Q.  Coach, again, congratulations --  
RITCHIE MCKAY: Thank you.   
 Q.  -- for making it to the round of 32.  Spending some time talking to some of your players, they all have unique stories, and they all talk about the impact that you've had on them not only as a coach, but also as a player -- I mean as a -- for them.  What do you feel is the biggest impact you think you've left on your players and the run that they've made so far?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: Thank you for your compliment.  I think for me having left Liberty the first time and going to Virginia, I think it was really healthy for my person, and I got back to being a transformational coach instead of a transactional coach.  So now I'm way more invested in the individual.  Not to say I was bad.  I'm just more intentional about it now.  And that's because of Christ in me, not because of any great thing that I do.   
So I really care for them, and I think we have created a group of people that lead our program and our assistant coaches and support staff, our administration, I think our university is like this, that we want their best interests.  And we have their best interests at heart.   
I said this yesterday.  I think when you're not outcome based but you're process or pursuant of just getting better as a person, I think that frees you up to be able to fail and still be unconditionally loved.   
 Q.  At the charity game you guys did in November, Buzz shared that he did not always like you, apparently.  
RITCHIE MCKAY: (Laughs.)   
 Q.  And that as a young assistant he had some choice words for you during a game once.  I was just curious from your perspective how that relationship has evolved over time.  
RITCHIE MCKAY: Well, Buzz was really immature.  (Laughs.)  Yeah, we let our competitive nature get the best of us in the moment.   
But I just told someone in another interview that he then invited me some -- I don't know how many years later on his plane when he was going from the Peach Jam in Atlanta or Augusta, Georgia, to an event in Milwaukee.  And I was scheduled to fly the next morning and I had to stop somewhere to get back there.  I was going to miss a half a day of the games.  He said, Why don't you jump on the plane with me?  And I was a little hesitant.  What kind of plane is this?  Make sure I checked for the eject switch.  But we spent probably two, two and a half hours on a plane, and I was like, man, I have so misread the cover of this book, because he's special.   
And we've gotten to know each other fairly well, and I think a lot of Buzz Williams and his family.  I think they're tremendous people.   
 Q.  To follow up, Richie, on what you said about your team being different from back in early November in the exhibition game, how has this team evolved since then and are there some different qualities that can help you beat the Hokies tomorrow?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: Well, true with every team that is committed to the pack, we're better defensively.  Justin Robinson -- I'm sorry, 5 is a hard equation to solve, but so was Peters last night for Mississippi State.  Without giving up our game plan, I just think we're a program that tries to stay in our line.   
And offensively we do some things that we try and take advantages of the way defenses play us, and then defensively we try and -- I'm not going to go Buzz Williams on you and tell you how many paint touches or how many box touches that you need.  He's way too eccentric and smart.  But I do think if we're able to take some good shots and take care of the ball, and then defensively if we can make them earn, I think hopefully we can have a chance.   
 Q.  How much are you looking for Scottie to have a bounceback game after he seemed he was somewhat out of it with what Mississippi State was able to do with their length and affect the shots?  
RITCHIE MCKAY: I never worry about Scottie.  I've seen him every day now for three years.  He is a phenomenal player.  Again, I don't equate his impact on our game on his statistics.  He didn't have a usual Scottie James night, but I have every bit of confidence that that could change the next time we put the uniform on.   
MODERATOR: Anything additional?  Looks like we're good.  All right.  Thanks, Coach.   
RITCHIE MCKAY: Thank you guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT