MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2005
Danny Granger
Ritchie McKay
Mark Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH MCKAY:  My biggest fear going into the game was the fact that we had only played once in the last two weeks with the schedule the way it was in the last ten days.  BYU did a great job.  They have a terrific coach.  They were well-prepared for us.  Danny and David got off to a slow start and they were doing too many things on their own.  They were great after they came back in after I took them out.  Whenever we have eighteen, nineteen assists, we have got a great chance to win.  Danny and Mark spear-headed an unselfish effort tonight.  I was very happy with their play.

Q.  First of all for Danny and Mark, address the physicalness of the game.  It seems like it took you a while to a adjust. 

DANNY GRANGER:  It took us a while.  They were calling real tight inside.  As the game went on, we got better. 

Q.  Danny, the NCAA Tournament Committee scheduled this game so they can watch this game at this time. 

DANNY GRANGER:  We didn't know that from the beginning.  Like Coach said, we haven't played in two weeks.  This is our first game in two weeks.  We knew BYU would be hungry.  We had to match their intensity and come out with the win.  We were pleased with it.  I am pleased with the performance overall.

Q.  Mark, you wound up with twelve assists.  Were you aware that you have got that kind of game going as far as assists?  Are concerned or are you just in the flow?

MARK WALTERS:  I didn't realize until Coach brought it up in the end of the game in the locker room.  During the game I am not aware; I am just dishing it down and these guys are finishing.

Q.  Can you answer the question he asked to Danny about trying to make some kind of impression to the committee?

COACH MCKAY:  Honestly, we haven't focussed on who is watching us.  We tried to take the next twenty minutes.  We had two pretty good halves tonight.  I think we will be judged on the body of our work.  With Danny in the line-ups, it is 24 and 3.  We have a good team when he is playing.  Even when he isn't, I think our team is improving.  I was pleased with our efforts.  We're going to worry about the things we can control.  We can't control the tournament committee and their thoughts.

Q.  You took the high road this week when you didn't win Defensive Player of the Year honors.  Did that give you a little motivation out there this week.  Where do you rank your game with the defensive performance this season?

DANNY GRANGER:  It didn't bother me too much.  This is one of my better defensive games.  I think I had one a good one at Oregon also.  It is all about being in the right spots.  I had some blocks and some steals.


Q.  Coach, can you talk about the lift that Bambale and Tony give you?  You seemed to be sparring a little bit in the first half. 

COACH MCKAY:  Tony is getting better and better.  He didn't play like a freshman.  I love his energy.  He has got a decent jump shot.  He has confidence in his ability to drive that he is not taking it.  Boone is terrific.  I was pleased that he had some successes.

Q.  Following that, how important was it to get some quality minutes from the bench if you guys are to get to the Championship and play three games in three nights?

COACH MCKAY:  I think it was important.  I think going in we tried to give those guys a few minutes.  Out of necessity we had to rest Dave because of his foul trouble.  Danny -- honestly, I thought our guys were too anxious.  I don't think we reversed the basketball.  I thought we were attacking them first six to ten seconds of the possession.  Our bench was good.  BYU was a good team, didn't want to let them catch up.

Q.  Did you preach to them about sharing the ball or does that come naturally?

COACH MCKAY:  Not once have I addressed selfish play this year.  I think in the Wake Forest game was the only time all year long I said something about our ball and shot distribution.  Other than that, this group has great character and it manifests in their play.

Q.  Coach, would you talk about what Coach Cleveland said to you after the game?  He pulled you to the side. 

COACH MCKAY:  He was complimentary of our group.  He has seen some good teams in the tournament.  He thought our team was deserving.  He is a class act.

Q.  We didn't see Kellen Walter play much.  We have been seeing you put him in the games more.  What has he been doing to earn the playing time?

COACH MCKAY:  He is improving in practice, being more consistent.  He shoots it like a guard.  He has been helpful and had his confidence against Utah.  Again I was impressed with all our guys off the bench.  I thought they all contributed in some way, shape or form.

Q.  Following on the Danny defensive thing.  I know you were disappointed he didn't get Defensive Player of the Year. 

COACH MCKAY:  I think he is tremendous defender.  I don't mean to take anything away from Justin Williams, but Danny Granger in touches, stealing the basketball and taking charges.  He is the best in this league in my opinion.

COACH MCKAY:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT