BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2014
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Saturday's your day 68, six birdies today.  How pleased are you with the day?GARY WOODLAND: It's okay.  I made some mistakes early and made some mistakes coming in.  Outside of that, I played really good through the middle of the round.  So, I'm excited about that. Go to the range and tighten some things up and be ready to go tomorrow.Q. We talked about altitude all week long.  As far as you hit it, how have you figured things out over the past three days?  And even on a day like this where it's really cold in the morning and then warms up throughout the day?GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, it was tough.  Yesterday was tough and this morning was tough, just because the ball didn't seem to be flying as much. But it's nice out now, the ball's flying.  Supposed to be nice tomorrow.  So, it's playing about 10 percent to 12 percent for me, how high I'm hitting it.  The ball's getting out there.Q. 29th coming into the week in the FedExCup standings, projected right now 26th.  How much that have is on your mind?GARY WOODLAND: Well, it's definitely there.  But, I know that I control my own destiny.  I know what I have to do.  If I go out and play well, everything will be fine.Q. I wanted to kind of follow-up on that, how cognizant will you be during the round?  Will you be checking much?GARY WOODLAND: If I go out and play well, I'm not too worried about it.  There's nothing I can do about it.  I got to go out and play golf and make birdies and try to move up the leaderboard. That's the big deal, is I'm not worried about the Top-30.  I'm trying to move up in the field. I mean you control your own destiny next week.  If I get in the top-5.  So, if I can squeeze up and get into that top-5 this week, finish, I should move up pretty good next week.Q. When you have something that's kind of a secondary thing that you're thinking about, is it hard to just stay focused on it?GARY WOODLAND: We do it every day.  The World Rankings is a big deal.  I need to stay in the Top-50.  Have a chance to get in Tiger's event.  There's a lot of stuff. Every week you're trying to think about something.  So, this is nothing new, my card's locked up for next year.  I'm playing good golf.  I just need to go out and play well tomorrow.Q. When you came here did you think that this was going to be a course that because of the altitude and the way you hit it, that type of thing, that you would do well?GARY WOODLAND: I just didn't know.  So, it's tough.  I knew it was short, but the way it played on Thursday -- it played very firm. Now it's playing soft, it's playing short now.  So, it's two different golf courses that we have seen.  But, hopefully we can continue to do what we're doing, we'll be all right tomorrow.Q. Did you have a lot of experience on the altitude courses?GARY WOODLAND: Well, I mean, I won in Reno last year, which is not even more than this altitude-wise. So, yeah, I'm comfortable with it.  The ball goes far.  If I can hit driver in the fairway, I'm hitting wedges into holes which altitude can't affect that much.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT