THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Good round today.  You kind of put yourself in the hunt.  GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, it was nice to get back in it.  I played better yesterday than I scored, which was frustrating.  I got some work last night on the range, I came back out and I felt great. I got off to a good start.  I got a couple of putts to go in there.  I made an eagle on 5 and made another putt on 6.  It was nice to get low early.  I hit some good shots coming in.  Didn't make any putts there until the last hole.  It was nice, I was trying to get under par to get back to even.  It was a good deal.   Q.  You got a favorable draw weather-wise?  GARY WOODLAND: I don't know.  I thought yesterday we got the tough end of the draw.  And it was pretty tough this morning.  We'll see.  The wind is supposed to die down this afternoon, we'll see how it goes.  Definitely the golf course was set up a little more favorable today, because it was tough out there.   Q.  Looking at the round today, what is the shot that you were most proud of executing?  That helped you out, jump started, kept the momentum going, whatever?  GARY WOODLAND: I think right from the second hole.  I had 215 yards and I hit a little 3-iron in there to about 30 feet.  And that was a shot that I had to execute.  And I felt once I pulled that off.  I got the swing where I wanted today.  It feels pretty good.  Now we can be a little more aggressive.  And I was, I was more aggressive today.  I hit a couple more drivers.  I hit 1 yesterday and hit 3 today. I was able to play more aggressive and was more confident.   Q.  You've got to make hay on the par 5s here.  I believe you were 4-under on the 5s.  GARY WOODLAND: I think I was 3.  I had an eagle and a birdie.  10 is tough today because it was dead into the wind.  Yesterday we were hitting iron, iron.  Today it was driver, layup.  So that hole was a little different.  16 was dead into the wind, as well. So the par 5s definitely played a little tougher today.  You had to take advantage of 5.  That was straight downwind.  That's one you have to take advantage of, which I did.  And 18 was a little more favorable wind for me off the right.  I was able to hit driver and get it down there.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT