HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2014
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Gary, nice finish.   6 birdies and the "other."   Let's talk about that first, the par 5, 7, you had to be thinking after that tee shot, I'm going to be good on 2, eagle, maybe birdie?
GARY WOODLAND:   Actually I hit a great drive and walking off the last green, Tony said it was the best one I made all day, actually.   It was probably a step from being perfect and it just rolled back in the bunker and I didn't hit a very good bunker shot twice, actually.   One of those deals where it's a bad mistake but I knew I was playing good and swinging good and I stayed with it. 

Q.   Kept your composure, didn't let it get you down.   You played a great back nine. 
GARY WOODLAND:   I did.   I feel great about where I'm at.   I like this golf course, I'm comfortable here and I'm really comfortable where my game is so I'm excited about tomorrow. 

Q.   How much have you worked with the putting?   It's been good. 
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, it is.   I haven't made much.   I saw some go in today, which was nice, but, yeah, Greg Norman has helped me out with the putting.   We made some changes earlier this year and I'm starting to be understand it and put it in play. 

Q.   How much do you glance up at the crazy leaderboard? 
GARY WOODLAND:   It's hard not to see, they're everywhere but I knew I was trying to make birdies.   I knew there were going to be some birdies out there today.   It will be interesting to see how it goes tomorrow. 

Q.   After 7, how do you bounce back? 
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I knew I was playing good.   Obviously I made a bad mistake there, hit a great second shot, came up short, but made a bad mistake leaving it there in the bunker twice, but I knew I was playing well and that's what I told myself, keep doing what you're doing, and we'll get some putts to go in and we did that coming in. 

Q.   Bunch of guys bunched at 9‑under, one guy already posted a 10.   What's your mind‑set tomorrow? 
GARY WOODLAND:   I try not to worry about everybody else and continue to do what I'm doing.   I'm playing good right now so continuing to get those putts to go in and we'll be pretty good tomorrow. 

Q.   What type of numbers do you think this course can yield on Sunday? 
GARY WOODLAND:   I'm surprised where scores are right now.   The conditions are perfect, the golf course is in the best shape it's ever been in so there is a low one out there. 

Q.   Six birdies and an "other" but good round?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I played solid today, I made, obviously a mistake on 7 but outside of that I played great.   Need to continue what I've been doing the first two days, driving the ball well, controlling the iron shots and I'm hitting good putts.   I saw some go in today, which is nice, and hoping to carry that over into tomorrow. 

Q.   I understand Greg Norman has been helping you with your putting a little bit? 
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, he's helped me with everything.   He's been great for me.   Obviously I'm starting to learn what we're doing, I'm comfortable with what we're doing now and continue to build on that.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT