THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2014
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   In the thick of it going into Sunday.   
GARY WOODLAND:   Today I played solid.   It wasn't anything great, wasn't anything too bad.   Got off to a good start.   Gave a couple back.   
But I really hung in there.   Frustrated to make bogey on 15 and not make birdie on 16, but all in all it was a solid day.  
   
 Q.   What about 9 and how that went.   The slope there, talk about that lie.   
GARY WOODLAND:   It was a tough lie.   I didn't know which club to hit.   I tried to take lob wedge and tried to hit it hard and I just bladed it.   I got lucky where it came down.   Lee told me, "good bump and run," it was one of those deals where I just got lucky.   It was a horrible shot and I got lucky with it.   
   
 Q.   Seemed to get a chuckle out of it.   
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, we did.   We started laughing.   Right away, we both started cracking up.   He gave me a hard time, which was due for the shot.   
   
 Q.   On your front nine, number 5, driver off the tee, pretty aggressive off the tee, ended up with a bogey.   Is there anything that you would do differently?  
GARY WOODLAND:   No, that just sets up perfect for driver, I just pulled it a little bit.   The ball jumped on me on the second shot.   I actually hit it, missed it in a pretty good spot over the green, I had plenty of green to work with, I just didn't get it up‑and‑down.   
All in all, I played solid.   I didn't drive it as well as I would like to early.   Missing the fairway on 16 is tough, because that's a par‑5 that I'm going to hit middle iron into to make birdie or maybe eagle.   Got to drive my ball in the fairway tomorrow and give myself chances.  
   
 Q.   After a couple bogeys on 5 and 6 you bounced back.   How important was that to kind of right the ship?  
GARY WOODLAND:   It was big.   Especially after a good start, and to give shots back, it was nice to get one.   Obviously 8's not a big birdie hole, it's a tough par‑3.   So to make birdie on 7 and give myself a chance going into the back nine was nice.  
   
 Q.   Being a few shots back, do you try and put a number on what you got to do to win this thing, do you play more aggressive?  
GARY WOODLAND:   No, I got to keep doing what I'm doing, I just got to execute a little bit better.   I just got to eliminate the mistakes.   I'm playing well enough to post a low number, I just made some mistakes out there the last couple days.   If I eliminate the mistakes, I'll be right there in the thick of it.  
   
 Q.   Even with the mistakes, you still made that bomb on 14 from off the fringe.   How vital was that?  
GARY WOODLAND:   It was nice, it was nice to see a ball go in.   I had a great 2‑putt on the hole before, which it was nice.   
13, I think, was the big key, making a par save on 13.   I saw a ball go in the hole.  
Then 14 I hit a good putt and it rolled in.  
   
 Q.   Down the stretch, as you got to, you got to 16 and then that, that just, that spot on 16 there, how did you have to negotiate that?  
GARY WOODLAND:   It was tough.   16 was‑‑ I had just hit it in a horrible spot off the tee box.   I really didn't know where to lay it up.   I tried to be a little aggressive and it came out heavy.   That was one of the hardest shots I've had.   The third shot on 16 there.   
I had to play conservative, I had to aim‑‑ I hit it left.   I really didn't have that bad a shot over there, I had a pretty easy shot and I just hit a bad chip and I rolled a nice putt in there.  
   
 Q.   The finish on 18.   Talk about that.   
GARY WOODLAND:   I gave myself a great chance.   I hit a great 2‑iron down there, I only had 9‑iron in, but I was in between clubs, I was trying to hit an easy 9‑iron, I just came out of it a little bit.   
It was frustrating, I had a pretty good spot there to make birdie, which would have been nice, but I'll take the four and go.   
   
 Q.   Seemed like you kept your emotions pretty measured today, you never got too high with those birdies, those bounce backs, those saves.   
GARY WOODLAND:   I'm very comfortable with my game, where it is.   I'm seeing this golf course pretty good right now, which is nice.   So, hopefully, I eliminate the mistakes tomorrow and then we'll see what happens.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT