THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2014
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   At the moment you're six shots behind Martin, but a lot has happened in two days and a lot can happen Saturday and Sunday, can't it?   
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, there's definitely a low number out there.   Obviously there's a couple guys that had to be playing really, really good golf.   I was in that mix for a little bit.   I gave some shots back coming down the stretch there.   I hit some bad iron shots from the middle of the fairway, which is a little frustrating, but made a nice birdie to give me a little confidence going into this weekend, and hopefully make a lot of putts this weekend.  
   
 Q.   You chatted about this before, but you don't mind backing down and hitting fairway woods and irons and all that kind of stuff.   Did you hit any drivers today?  
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I hit four.   I think I've hit four both days.   Yeah, pretty conservative.  
   
 Q.   Rather than view that as a weapon that the course takes away, do you see it as a challenge to other parts of your game?  
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I'm driving the ball‑‑ today I drove the ball beautifully.   I hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of 3‑woods.   I strengthened the 3‑wood this week.   Callaway did, so I'm getting the ball out there still pretty far.   I'm still hitting it over 300 yards, so given that, hitting the ball in the fairway, I'm giving myself pretty good chances.  
   
 Q.   What's the difference between this year and the last two years here?  
GARY WOODLAND:   I'm a lot better golfer.   I'm healthy.   2012 I wasn't healthy.   Last year I didn't play.   I'm a lot better golfer than I was.   Obviously Tony has a lot of knowledge around here.   He's had success here, so that helps, but I'm just a lot better than I was the last couple years.  
   
 Q.   It was two years ago when you hurt your wrist at Augusta?   
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Was he on the bag when Norman won?  
GARY WOODLAND:   He was, yeah.  
   
 Q.   In '94?  
GARY WOODLAND:   Exactly.  
   
 Q.   You were going through some swing stuff with Claude Harmon now?  
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I've been with Claude now for a year, actually a year this week.   I started with him about a year ago, so it's been good.   I'm very comfortable with where I'm at.   Game is coming along, short game has been really good, and I'm starting to drive the ball pretty well.   I get some putts go in, we'll be pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Is it a continuation of stuff with Butch?  
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, it is.   I'm just more comfortable.   I'm healthy, and I'm starting to play pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Historically they give you a few easy pins on Saturday, move some tees up, encourage you guys, give you a chance to rally.   Do you plan on getting more aggressive or are you going to stay with what you've been doing?  
GARY WOODLAND:   I'm just going to stay with what I am doing and I've got to execute a little bit better.   I had chances today to post a pretty good number.   I made three bogeys from the middle of the fairway on the back nine.   Very frustrating, but good birdie on the last.   Keep driving the ball like I am and hitting good shots, I'll be all right.   
   
 Q.   That stretch on that back nine, how difficult is it to bounce back like you did and finish out with a birdie?   
GARY WOODLAND:   It's tough.   I mean, I was very happy to finish with a par‑5.   I hit 3‑iron into the par‑5.   I was very fortunate to get to that.   It was frustrating because I was in the middle of the fairway.   I was thinking birdies and making bogey.   Those were frustrating.  
   
 Q.   Did you get some tips from Greg Norman?  
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I talked to Greg earlier this week.   It's been encouraging.   Did some short game stuff, did some mental work.   It's been good.   He's pretty good.   He's had some pretty good success in his career, so it's nice to take some pointers from him.  
   
 Q.   How did that come about?  
GARY WOODLAND:   From Tony.   Tony set that up earlier this year.   It's been good.  
   
 Q.   Mostly just short game stuff?  
GARY WOODLAND:   Everything.   It's been nice.   I'm very comfortable.   He's simplified the game for me a little bit, which has been good.  
   
 Q.   How long has that been going on?  
GARY WOODLAND:   Since Palm Springs.  
   
 Q.   Any good Sawgrass advice from him?  
GARY WOODLAND:   No, I mean, he just told me it was a good golf course for me, to go out and have fun and play well.   I know the game is close.   I've been playing solid for a while.   I'm starting to see some more birdies go in, which is nice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT