CHARLES SCHWAB CHALLENGE
June 13, 2020
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Gary, 4-under par 66. If we can get some comments on your day.  
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I played solid today. I drove the golf ball well, which you've got to do out here. My distance control has been really good all week with the irons, but got a couple key putts to go in. It was nice to get the last two to go in, make dinner taste a little better going into tomorrow. But all in all it was a solid day and still in a good position going into Sunday.   
 Q.  Talk about the jam-packed leaderboard and what Sunday is going to present.  
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, it's great. You get a field like this, it definitely has a major feel. You've got a lot of the top players in the world, and everybody is playing well. I think everybody is excited to be out here, and with no fans here, you get some big names up there that you definitely get the juices going. Adrenaline was definitely going a little bit more today than the first two days. I expect more of that tomorrow. You've got a great leaderboard, a great field and a great golf course and a great tournament, so it should be fun.   
 Q.  Speaking of that adrenaline, what do you expect tomorrow being in contention but yet not having any noise on the golf course?  
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I mean, you'll make your own noise. You've got to go out there and play well. You've got to play aggressive. The greens are receptive. You've got to drive the golf ball in the fairway and you're going to have to make birdies. There's too many guys up at the top, too many great players. You're going to have to go out and earn it tomorrow.   
 Q.  Do you think not having noise will be more significant tomorrow compared to the last three days?  
GARY WOODLAND: I think you'll feel it a little bit more tomorrow for sure, but like I said, when you get into contention and have a chance to win a golf tournament, that adrenaline starts pumping. It's been a little different; the first two days there wasn't too much adrenaline. There will be adrenaline going, which you have with fans or without fans. Tomorrow should be fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT