MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Given how your last round was here two years ago, how was your round today?  
GARY WOODLAND:   It was nice to get back here after what happened a couple of years ago.   I'm a different golfer than I was then, too.   I'm confident.   I'm healthy.   
Tony gives me definitely added confidence around here.   It's my third year here, but I feel like I've been here a hundred times.   It's nice having him on the bag, it tends to help me.   
   
 Q.   Par‑5s today, you took advantage of.   That's an area where it's kind of been up and down for you this year?  
GARY WOODLAND:   It has been.   These set up really good for me.   I can hit 3‑wood off two of them.   It's one of those deals where you've got a pretty good game plan.   Tony has dialed me back little bit.   I'm playing a little more conservative than I have in the past.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, he knows what he's doing, so I trust him.   
   
 Q.   Can you describe Amen Corner today?   I think you went par, par, par?  
GARY WOODLAND:   The wind is swirling.   We're standing on 11, the pin is going one direction, we get up to the green and it's going another direction.   That was nice having Tony on the bag, because he's seen that before.   We slowed down a little bit, and made sure we're comfortable.   And then you have to trust it and hit good shots.  
   
 Q.   Your score today, how much of that was Tony?  
GARY WOODLAND:   A lot.   Obviously he put me in the right position and I was able to do it.   I feel like we left some out there.   I gave myself a lot of chances.   I hit a lot of greens.   I didn't make a lot of putts but I was putting uphill all day.   And when you do that out here you'll be pretty good without giving these greens up.   
   
 Q.   With the work with Greg Norman, do you guys ever talk about Augusta, some of the things that he would want you to do, some of the things you would want you to do?  
GARY WOODLAND:   Not gameplan‑wise.   I talked to him last week, and asked him what he did when he prepared.   I worked on some practice other than that, nothing.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
GARY WOODLAND:   You've got to stay calm out here, and you've got to be patient.   You can't get ahead of yourself and if you make a bad swing out here you've got to let it go.   You have to trust what you're doing.   With the wind swirling out there you can second‑guess an awful lot.   Trust what you're doing and make good swings.  
   
 Q.   9 and 10 probably your worst shots off the tee, how big were those saves?  
GARY WOODLAND:   It was big.   Those were two bad shots I hit all day.   And got fortunate, hit a great second shot on 9 to get it up where it was.   
And 10, I don't know if it hit a tree to stop it or knock it down, but it was a pretty good up and down.   Tony said keep it short of the pin and get it up and down.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
GARY WOODLAND:   I think it's perfect.   The par‑5s were great, you can attack.   The other holes I'm able to hit a lot of 3‑woods, a lot of right‑to‑left holes.   And when I hit driver, I feel like it's a big advantage.   So this golf course from that sets up pretty good for me.  
   
 Q.   You had two holes where you struggled a little bit.   Did that disrupt anything, because you kind of had to play ahead, play almost out of turn?  
GARY WOODLAND:   No, we were in a pretty good group all day.   I was focused on what I was doing, not worrying about anything else.   I've known Poults for a long time, we're neighbors.   Angel is a great guy, as well.   It was all good.  
   
 Q.   Were you guys put on the clock at 15?  
GARY WOODLAND:   They put us on the clock for half a hole and then took it off.   They said we didn't need to be on the clock so they erased it.  
   
 Q.   Was it hard to generate momentum when the other guys were struggling a little bit to get things going?  
GARY WOODLAND:   No.   I was out here to worry about what I was doing, not worrying too much about what everybody else was doing.   There was enough going on with me that I didn't worry about anyone else.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT