CIMB CLASSIC
October 28, 2013
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Gary, you're obviously disappointed but I think you had a great week all around?  
GARY WOODLAND:   I did.   I really enjoyed my time here.   Obviously I played pretty well, just came up one shot short.   All in all it was a great week, something to build on, and look forward to coming back.  
   
 Q.   Talk us through the playoff.   
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, it was tough.   It was a long hole, I had to lay up, and Ryan hit a great shot in there and obviously made a good birdie.   But I thought I hit a pretty good shot on the third shot, just obviously coming out of the rough, I would have like to have been in the fairway, came out of the rough and came up a little short.  
   
 Q.   You're one of the longest hitters on TOUR.   Was it obviously the plan to get an iron off the tee?  
GARY WOODLAND:   No, we just wanted to see what the weather was like.   I didn't think I could cover the bunkers this morning, especially where that pin was.   If the pin was up front, we probably would have been a little more aggressive, but with the pin in the back I didn't want to leave it short of the bunker and have a tough third shot.   We decided to lay up and tried to hit a good wedge in there.  
   
 Q.   Did you sleep well last night?  
GARY WOODLAND:   I did.   It's easy to sleep well over here with the time difference.   I was in bed early and I got a good night's sleep.  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk a little bit about how the last few months have been for me?   Starting in August your play just picked up dramatically.   
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I'm healthy.   I mean, that's a big key.   But the game, I put a lot of hard work in.   It's been a process with the changes I've made, switching to Butch and his son, and it's finally starting to come together, which is nice.   I put a lot of work in on the short game, a lot of work on the middle game, and we're starting to put it together now.  
   
 Q.   Before August when your ranking had fallen down to the 260s, how hard was that for you?  
GARY WOODLAND:   It was hard.   It was frustrating, especially to try to stick to the process when you're going the other direction, it's hard to stay with it.   But I brought Julie Elion in the week I won, and she's really got me back in a mental mind frame where I need to be, and we're starting to make progress.  
   
 Q.   Are you feeling confident?  
GARY WOODLAND:   I am.   I feel really good.   I'm excited about the next four weeks off.   We have a little work to do in the game, but I'm going to enjoy the next four weeks.  
   
 Q.   Did you think about the birdie chance last night at all?  
GARY WOODLAND:   I mean, yeah.   Obviously I'd like to make that putt.   I hit it where I wanted to, it just broke more.   I can see it now, it was a little lighter out right now, I can see it broke a little more, but it is what it is.   I hit a good putt, and it just didn't go in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT