CIMB CLASSIC
October 27, 2013
Ryan Moore
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS REIMER:   Well, a long day, some starting and stopping, but it all comes down to tomorrow morning 7:30 a.m. for Ryan Moore and Gary Woodland.   Ryan, just some comments on the day and talk about what it's going to be like coming back out here tomorrow for the playoff.   
RYAN MOORE:   Well, it's honestly a little bit of a blur right now because today was so crazy with the weather on and off, and I think we're both pretty happy we just got done at this point.   But obviously to have to come back tomorrow for a playoff is not the worst thing ever.   I'm just happy to be in it.   I was scrambling there on the last hole just to somehow make a par and kind of see what happens at that point, and fortunately I still get another shot at it.   
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, it was a long day, and like Ryan said, thankfully we got done, and there's a lot of worse things.   Changing a flight is not the end of the world, to come back and have a playoff tomorrow.   Excited about that, and should be a fun day tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Gary, are you thinking about that last putt on the 18th hole?   Could you walk us through that and what was going through your mind?  
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I knew I needed to make it to win.   I played it just outside right and thought I hit a good putt.   I thought I made it when I looked up, and it just broke too much at the end there.   But it was a tough day, and obviously to come down to the last putt, obviously I'd like to have made it, but I wouldn't do anything different.   I hit it where I wanted to, and unfortunately it didn't go in.   
   
 Q.   A silly question perhaps, but how pressure packed is it at this moment?   Do you think you can get a good night's sleep and go eat tomorrow morning?   
RYAN MOORE:   I know I'm fairly exhausted at this point, so sleeping should not be difficult.   I'm going to get back to the hotel, get something to eat real fast, and I'll probably be out as soon as I hit the bed.   
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, this is about as late as I've been up all week, so sleeping will be the last of the issues.   
CHRIS REIMER:   After having played in each other's group all day, what's going to make Gary tough to beat, Ryan?   And Ryan, what will make Gary a tough opponent tomorrow?   
RYAN MOORE:   Well, obviously he's playing great, and we both are to this point.   We're both played some great golf this week.   He did a lot of good things today, made putts when he needed to, and had some great up‑and‑downs all day long from the fairways, and like I said, just kind of did what he had to do to be right here, right now.   
Obviously we both know tomorrow good golf is going to win.   You've got to go out and you've got to do something to win, and I think that's a great thing.   
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, exactly.   Obviously we're both playing really well, and obviously Ryan played‑‑ he hit the ball beautifully today, hit some great putts, and obviously an unbelievable up‑and‑down on the last hole.   It'll be a good day.   Obviously we're going to come out and you're going to try to have to make birdies because Ryan is going to do that, and I'm going to try to do the same.   
   
 Q.   How did you pass the time during the rain delay today, both of them?   
RYAN MOORE:   About the same as always:   Eat and played some Candy Crush on my phone.   That's about it.   I'm stuck on this level; I haven't been able to get past it in like six weeks.   It's driving me crazy.   I thought that was a perfect time to really get over it, and still didn't beat it.   It's the truth.   It's real.   It's driving me crazy.   
GARY WOODLAND:   I didn't do anything.   I ate, sat there and was hoping that rain went away.   It was a long day.   
CHRIS REIMER:   Well, a lot on the line.   Get some sleep, good luck tomorrow, we'll see you in the morning.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT