RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 1, 2013
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Gary Woodland, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a successful 14 points in round one.   Birdied five of your first nine holes and ended on a high note with birdies at 17 and 18.
With that being said, I'll turn it over to you for a few comments.
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I played well today.   I got off to a good start, and it was nice to get some coming in there, because I kind of had a bunch of pars there in the middle of the round.
It was nice to finish well, on a high note, and a lot of momentum going forward for the week.
DOUG MILNE:   I know in 2011, your rookie year, you saw a lot of courses for the first time; you're here for the first time.   Do anything special to prep yourself for an event like this? 
GARY WOODLAND:   No.   I mean, this is just one of those weeks where you really have to think.   Kind of slowed down a lot with the altitude.   The wind is blowing today.   I mean, the golf course played tough. 
There was a lot of thinking going on.   Caddie and I did a lot of work today, a lot of communication that we definitely needed to be successful today.
DOUG MILNE:   Take some questions. 

Q.   Gary, players here, when they're here for the first time, don't normally do very well.   How did you manage to figure out this course so quickly? 
GARY WOODLAND:   You know, it helped my caddie has been here before.   But really the golf course really suits my eye really well.   I think length is a huge advantage here. 
With the altitude I can get the ball ‑‑ I mean, I was hitting middle irons into the par‑5s today.   I think I hit 2‑iron up on 2; I hit 5‑iron into 8; hit 6 iron into 18.
So I'm hitting middle irons into these par‑5s, which helps.   Then a lot of the holes I can hit 2‑iron off the tee box.   The fairway are wide enough for me and just suits me very well.

Q.   What do you think of the Stableford format here?
GARY WOODLAND:   It's fun.   It's nice to change it up.   You get kind of the same thing week in and week out.   It's nice to have a change.   I think this is a great golf course for it.   With the conditions playing how they are with the wind, it allows you to still be aggressive and not have to worry about losing too much ground.

Q.   Where you in the FedExCup points and what are your goals with that in mind?
GARY WOODLAND:   I'm 116 in FedEx, so my goal is just keep playing well and everything will take care of itself.   Obviously you play well you get into the playoffs; you play well in the playoffs, you can do anything.
So obviously the goal is to play well each day and move on.

Q.   What's your mentality when you do have the lead after a first round?   You like to come on strong over a weekend or jump out front and set the pace?
GARY WOODLAND:   Obviously I like to just get ahead and go.   Obviously I'm playing well.   I feel comfortable out here.   Going to have to make a lot of birdies out here, but the golf course suits that.
Obviously it's nice to get off to a good start, and looking forward to making more birdies this week.

Q.   Can you compare this golf course to any one you've played?   Does it layout well for you?
GARY WOODLAND:   Kind of reminds me of CordeValle in the San Jose area.   Just the lay of the land, I mean, it's beautiful.   It's one of the most scenic golf courses we come to all year.   Unbelievable condition. 
The altitude throws it off.   That's the difference maker.   It's definitely one of the most beautiful golf courses we've been.
DOUG MILNE:   Gary, congratulations on a great round.   We appreciate your time. 
GARY WOODLAND:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT