MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2012
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We heard you injured your wrist.   Tell us about that. 
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I mean, I started feeling a little pain this morning, just a little stiffness this morning.   Popped some anti‑inflammatories to try to loosen it up.   Got on the first tee and just progressively got worse. 
Then I made a swing on 8 and shot the pain up in the rest of the arm, all the way down the hand.   Should have stopped, trainers wanted me to stop, caddie was begging me to stop.   I worked too hard to get here.   I wanted to at least finish today and we'll take it from there.

Q.   How far back does this trace if you were ‑‑
GARY WOODLAND:   I felt it earlier this year, but nothing crazy.   Just popped some anti‑inflammatories.   I had it taped a little bit in Phoenix.   I haven't felt anything in the last couple of weeks.   I felt pretty good. 
We thought about Cortizone earlier in the year, but it just progressively got better.   And then today it just kind of flared up on us. 

Q.   Given how much it hurt, why was it so important to finish?
GARY WOODLAND:   I've worked too hard.   I was playing good.   It's frustrating.   I probably should have stopped on it.   Maybe try to get a couple of pars coming in and shoot a low one tomorrow, but it was tough.   I just ‑‑ I've never quit anything in my life.   I just wanted to finish.

Q.   Which wrist was it? 
GARY WOODLAND:   It was the left wrist.

Q.   Is this an old injury going back?
GARY WOODLAND:   No.   Never had anything ‑‑ never had wrist problems.   It was just one of those things.   I felt some pain earlier in the year hitting balls, just hit a lot of balls earlier this year making some swing changes.   Just today it flared up on me.   So we're going to get it looked at.

Q.   (Inaudible) like 60 percent or how much did that ‑‑
GARY WOODLAND:   That was the problem was I couldn't get it in play.   The best it felt was putting, that was it.   It hurt me going back, it hurt me going through.   The worst was going back, setting it.   Then I felt pain trying to hit the ball.   It was a long, long day.

Q.   I would imagine as well mentally just knowing that you are going to have to hit another shot with pain going through, that's ‑‑
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, we celebrated walking up the last hole that I didn't have to make another swing today.   That was ‑‑ it was hard.   I just kept counting the shots until I could get in.   It was definitely tough. 

Q.   How did you ever get the two shots on the green at 11?
GARY WOODLAND:   I don't know.   You know, the driver wasn't going very far and I got lucky.   I was just ‑‑ I flipped it and the ball just went forever.   I just pulled it.   I mean, I didn't hit two good shots, but I got it on the green somehow.

Q.   How disappointed are you right now?
GARY WOODLAND:   I'm very frustrated.   I felt like yesterday I got it going.   Felt great and it was probably the best warm up I had this morning.   Butch and I talked this morning.   That was the best he's seen me hit it.   I was looking ‑‑ I felt like I was right in the heart of the golf tournament I thought I had a pretty good chance.   And for this to happen, I'm pretty upset right now.

Q.   Did you shorten your driver coming in here? 
GARY WOODLAND:   I did.   I cut it down a half inch on Wednesday.

Q.   Half inch to what? 
GARY WOODLAND:   To 44 and three‑quarters.   Felt like I was driving the ball beautifully.

Q.   Did they tell you any risks of continuing to play today? 
GARY WOODLAND:   No.   The trainer didn't think I could do anymore damage and that's why I kept going.   The pain was the definitely the most pain I've had in the wrist ever.   Once he saw me swing on 11, he wanted me to stop.   I just told him I had 7 holes left, two of them were par 3s, you know, a lot of irons and I wouldn't try to hit the ball hard again.

Q.   Do irons hurt more than drivers?
GARY WOODLAND:   Every swing hurt it.   Just every time I took it back, it hurt trying to set it.   It hurt releasing the club.

Q.   What's the plan tonight then?
GARY WOODLAND:   I'm going to go get it looked at right now.

Q.   Any guess at what ‑‑
GARY WOODLAND:   No.   They'll take it from here.

Q.   Make a call in the morning?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah.   Probably tonight, but yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT