OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 25, 2011
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Watched a good bit of your golf today, seemed like you had some good holes but also some missed opportunities for the team.   
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, it was a little frustrating.   I don't think we got out of it what we put into it.   We had some opportunities.     Just didn't seem like we played well together; when Matt hit it in there close, I missed it.   Like I said, we didn't have enough opportunities, and when we did, we didn't capitalise on it.  
   
 Q.   That said, 10‑under, you're not far off and still in good position with 36 holes left.   
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, there's a lot of golf left.   We need to play well tomorrow, kind of close in a little bit and Sunday is where all of the fun is going to happen, get back into this format.   It was the first time we played this format together, we are still getting used to golf balls.   His ball is a little harder and mine is a little softer.   We are working on that a little bit but that's the minor stuff.   Just go out tomorrow and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Like on 16, going for the green, where you hit it ten extra yards‑‑  
GARY WOODLAND:   No, that was my ball we hit.   The difference there was my ball spun more on the chip shot.   He hit a perfect shot and he looked at me‑‑ and a couple times where I hit his ball today and did the same thing.   It was just one of those things, but we'll work that out.   We know what it is now and go out and play well.  
   
 Q.   Did anything change as far as what tees you'll hit on?   
GARY WOODLAND:   The tees are perfect.   Driving the ball was fine.   We both drove it pretty well.   We hit it close a couple of times and didn't make putts but a couple of times early in the round where we made it too difficult on ourselves.   Luckily we didn't shoot ourselves out of it.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about the Thanksgiving dinner last night and how that went and what you thought about it all.   
GARY WOODLAND:   It was nice.   We are all obviously a long ways away from home and all our families, it was nice to get together with a bunch of friends and celebrate a little bit of Thanksgiving.   Never had karaoke at Thanksgiving, so something new.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT