THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 5, 2011
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Gary, was there something that was said in the crowd up there on 18?
 GARY WOODLAND: No, I don't know. I didn't see what was going on. I think something bothered Hunter. I didn't see what it was, though.

 Q. What do you do about tomorrow now? 
 GARY WOODLAND: See what I'm ranked in the world tonight. You know, we'll go from there. We'll just wait until the rankings come out and see what happens.

 Q. What would make you comfortable? 
 GARY WOODLAND: That's another good question. I'll have to talk to my agent. 
 You know, obviously I didn't want to make bogey on the last, finish by myself, but it's going to be one of those deals where I have to see tonight. I don't want to play tomorrow, but I'm going to have to if I want to get in.

 Q. Are you playing next week?
 GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I'm scheduled to play.

 Q. Is there a scenario that you wouldn't play next week if you moved well in?
 GARY WOODLAND: The only way I wouldn't play, if I don't feel comfortable playing with my body, my back has been bothering me, if I don't feel comfortable playing five weeks in a row, that might throw me off. Especially if I have to play 36 holes tomorrow, I don't know how I'm going to feel after that. We'll see how it goes.

 Q. Are you thinking more about the qualifier or just finishing a good round?
 GARY WOODLAND: I was just trying to make a couple more birdies coming in. I made two bogeys coming in two days in a row, on 15 and 18; 15 is a birdie hole for me, and then 18 middle of the fairway, hit the wrong club. 
 But no, I wasn't thinking about the qualifier, I was trying to get it to 12, 13, 14-under par.

 Q. Given the way you did play, is it hard to believe just how far ahead Stricker is?
 GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I don't know what golf course he's playing. He definitely ain't playing out here with us. He's made some shots. I saw the bunker shot he got up-and-down on 12. It had to be one of the best bunker shots ever. You know, he's hitting good shots.

 Q. Is there a magic number that you've discussed with your agent as far as you definitely won't play?
 GARY WOODLAND: No, I've got to see all the scenarios. I haven't looked at it clear enough. Just trying to go out there and play well and finish as high as I could, and we'll look at all that tonight. Most of the time they come out tonight. I golf at 7:50 tomorrow morning, so hopefully they come out tonight. I'm trying not to look at it, trying to play my way in, trying not to think about it.

 Q. I know the last couple weeks you had a great start to the season, nice bounce back this week?
 GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I've been playing well. I just let two rounds two weeks get away from me on Sunday; Charlotte and then last week I was playing really well. 
 To come out today, I hit it well all day on Sunday, which was what I needed to do again, and give me a little confidence going forward. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 GARY WOODLAND: Definitely. It's definitely something we're going to talk about tonight. You know, I called a rules official out in Dallas halfway through the round, had to get stuff worked on. So I'll see how I feel tonight. 
 I have a guy here working on me. We'll see if I can get it loosened up. I had a rib pop out of place in the upper back and then everything kind of just shut down around it. Hopefully -- it felt pretty good this week and hopefully we can keep it that way.

 Q. When did that happen?
 GARY WOODLAND: It happened last Friday in Dallas.

 Q. Just to make sure, you're still debating whether you'd be better off playing Memphis the way you're playing or do 36 holes?
 GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, and I'm playing well, too. Memphis is a great golf course for me. I played well there last year. It allows me to hit some drivers on some holes I can use my length. Kind of like this course, when I hit driver it's an advantage for me out here. I just didn't hit many of them. It's a good golf course, and I'd like to play if I can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT