U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does the pressure of the closing minutes of a basketball game compare to the closing minutes of a major?  
GARY WOODLAND: We have a little more time to think.  The good thing is we're at Pebble Beach, so there's a lot of beauty out here where you can relax and take it in.  Basketball is a little more reaction.  Here you've got to control yourself and stay within yourself and stick to your game plan.  And fortunately I did that today.   
 Q.  Challenge tomorrow, sleeping with the lead and having it hopefully all day.  Does it help that you did that?  
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I've obviously played well the last couple majors I've been in.  I was in the position in Bellerive last year, after 36 holes.  Sleep is not an issue.  It's a long day out here.  It's tiring mentally more than physically.   
I'll be rested for tomorrow.  I'm comfortable with my game.  I'm playing good.  We're at Pebble Beach for the U.S. Open.  It should be exciting.   
 Q.  Did you watch the leaderboard coming down the stretch and does that affect your play?  
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, for me, like today, I didn't hit any club different off the tee box than the last hole.  I've been hitting driver on 18.  But it cooled down so much, the wind was picking up a little bit.  We didn't think it was the right play.  Outside of that, it's really just sticking to my game plan.   
Obviously the back nine, if I hopefully get up to a big lead, if I can play more conservatively, maybe I will.  You've got to come out and hit golf shots.  And hopefully you have one less number than anything else.   
 Q.  You have a lot of cool and memorable moments on the golf course.  Where does leading heading into the final day of a major rank on that list?  
GARY WOODLAND: I mean, it's -- that's good.  Leading after tomorrow would be up there, as well.  But I'm in a good spot.  Obviously you come here with intentions to play to win and give yourself a chance.  And I've done that through 54 holes.  We've got to get ready in the morning, have fun, come out with an attitude and see what happens.   
 Q.  Are you going to check out the leaderboard tomorrow?  
GARY WOODLAND: You're going to see it.  They've done a good job of positioning those.  I'll stick to myself.  I'm going to go out and stick to my game plan, get off to a good start and keep attacking from the middle of the fairway.  The golf course is firming up.  It's not as receptive as it was early in the week.  Hopefully go out and control myself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT