WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Gary, talk about your match a little bit.  
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, it was nice.  Today was as good as I hit the ball in a long time.  It hasn't been great in the last month, put a lot work in and kind of saw some results early in the round today, and on top of that I made some putts.   
So it was exciting, especially early.  I hit a couple bad shots and let him back in the match, but it was nice to finish it out in the last.  But I'm excited about where the game is trending right now.   
 Q.  What were some of the stuff you've been working on that may have slid a little bit?  
GARY WOODLAND: I played so good early, I think I was focusing so much on the short game and let the full game get away.  I was hitting it so good, I probably just relaxed a little bit, I think.  I got in some bad habits.  And it's been a struggle the last couple of weeks.  But it was nice, the last three or four days.  I missed the cut last week, but got some good work in over the weekend.  Sort of trending back to where I was.  And it was nice to see the results today.   
 Q.  You have Justin tomorrow, your thoughts on that?  
GARY WOODLAND: That's exciting, because you obviously want to beat the best players in the world, and he's definitely one of the best players in the world.  Rosie and I are good buddies, so we'll have a good time on top of that.  I'm excited that I'm playing better.  That definitely suits me, gives me a really good chance for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You obviously won your first two matches here, can you get momentum here in this format?  
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I get some momentum after the start of the round today.  Yesterday I didn't play very well, but Eddie didn't either, so I got lucky there.  That's the beauty of match play, you don't always have to play well and still win.  You can play great sometimes and lose.  Today I really played well.  Put a lot of pressure early in the round to get up big.  That's the goal, to get up and keep putting pressure on all day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT