MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2018
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about how difficult it is not to play the weekend?  
GARY WOODLAND: It sucks. I felt like the game was pretty good coming in. Felt like we had a pretty good game plan. I just doesn't execute, and that's what it comes down to. Just kind of got off to a rough start yesterday and momentum carried me through the day yesterday. Fought back late to give myself a chance today, and just really couldn't get anything going today, unfortunately. Just didn't have it.  
   
 Q. How hard is the course right now?  
GARY WOODLAND: The golf course is tough. It's penalizing. If you get in the wrong spot out here you could be there all day. Unfortunately I found some of those spots. And even when I got in position, I just didn't execute properly. So adds up to a very frustrating week. And I'm looking forward to two weeks off.   
   
 Q. The scores haven't appreciably been different today.   
GARY WOODLAND: The pins were very tough yesterday. They were a little more accessible today. But the greens are so fast. And if you get off position on the tee you have no chance, really. So then you're scrambling for pars all day. And unfortunately I was doing that a lot. But the golf course is perfect, like it always is. And unfortunately I didn't play very well.  
   
 Q. What happened on 13?  
GARY WOODLAND: I hit a good driver, just didn't hit it high enough. Right where I wanted to, just a little off the toe, I think. I hit it hard and hit the tree and we lost it. It's a bad break. You've got to hit it higher than that. Other than that the game felt fine. There wasn't a shot where I felt like I couldn't execute, but unfortunately I didn't. Maybe I put too much pressure on myself, pressing too much, knowing I had the game to be successful here. But I'll take a couple, few weeks off and enjoy that and get back to work.   
   
 Q. You said you'd have to do something special. Did that put added pressure on you, kind of force things?  
GARY WOODLAND: No. Yesterday really got out of position. Today it was fine. Obviously the double hurt. I was trying to get to 5, but I didn't give myself enough looks. Like when I got in position I didn't hit it close enough to the hole. When you've got 25, 30 feet out here, you're putting, being defensive. It's hard to score when you're being defensive.   
   
 Q. Is this the most disappointing because of where‑‑  
GARY WOODLAND: I missed the cut the last couple of years by a shot or two. I've actually had chances. This year I didn't really have a chance, the start I had yesterday. So it's frustrating the. Knowing that I was playing well and knowing that my game is suitable to this place now, that's very frustrating. But it is what it is, it's a long year. And like I said, I'm looking forward to two weeks off.  
   
 Q. What challenge did the wind present as the day went on?  
GARY WOODLAND: It's swirling a little bit. It's not that heavy. But it's moving a lot. You get in these trees and you're guessing back there a little bit. We fought that yesterday, and today it's starting to pick up now. Early in the morning it was only blowing a little bit. But now it's getting tough out there for sure.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT