PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2017
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GARY WOODLAND: I drove the ball well, got off to a good start.  Birdied the second hole which is a bonus on that golf hole.
I attacked the par-5, kind of gave one away there on 10.  Had 3-wood in the middle of the fairway.  Outside of that I drove the golf ball great.  Gave myself a lot of challenges.  Very happy with where I'm at.
Q. Talk about your putting.  Any changes?
GARY WOODLAND: I haven't made putts in a long time.  I made a couple in Canada.  I've been hitting the golf ball really well for a while now.  I talked to Fax earlier this week.  I worked with Strick yesterday.  I talked to two of the greats.  I picked up some things definitely.
From the start today I felt really comfortable.  I played well here at this golf course in the past.  I'm comfortable on this golf course.  To see a couple putts go in early, I was happy.
Q. What did Strick tell you on the putting green yesterday?
GARY WOODLAND: I've worked with him a couple of times, a lot of setup stuff.  The day before a major, it's all about freeing it up.  We're not trying to do too much.  Just get comfortable was the big deal.
Q. Your off-course life is settled a little bit now?
GARY WOODLAND: That's been huge.  Last week was tough because I was gone all week.  After Canada I flew home.  I was a little rusty last week, tired more than anything.  I settled in on the weekend.  Played really good on Sunday and carried that in to this week.
Q. Gary, what is your take on the 4th?
GARY WOODLAND: That pin today is brutal.  There's a lot going on there.  Probably should be flattened a little bit.  I mean, you're hitting a mid iron in.  Today the wind was in, so it played longer than it should.  If you have a 9-iron or a wedge, it's all right.  It's a tough green if it's firm and you're hitting a long iron.
Q. What did you do there?
GARY WOODLAND: I hit it over the green and got it up-and-down.
Q. Were you surprised to see yourself at the top of leaderboard there at 3-under for a while?
GARY WOODLAND: No, not really.  I think the last three times I have played here, I have been inside the Top 20, 25.  I think I finished fourth last year.
Very comfortable on this golf course, sets up good to my eye.  The changes they've made, I hit more drivers now than I ever do.  It's a longer golf course.  Almost like they did it for me, I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT