THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2017
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on a good solid week?  You made a great effort out there.  Just at the end, press a little bit?
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, it was frustrating.  I hit good putts on 14, 15, 16, 17.  I thought when I hit them, I thought all of them looked pretty good.  Unfortunately I missed the comebacker on 17.
It was a little deflating on 18.  Thought I hit a pretty good drive and thought I would have a chance, and I just couldn't get home and laid up in the water, which was bad.  I gave myself a lot of chances.  Just didn't get the putts to come in down the stretch.
But obviously Rickie is playing some great golf.  So happy with the way I'm playing and looking forward to next week.
Q. How difficult was it out there today?
GARY WOODLAND: It was tough.  The wind was coming out of a different direction, so coming down the stretch, 15, 16, 17, even 18, played completely different.  You get them off the left on 15, 17, pretty big par 3s there.
Q. Tied for second this week, another good week.  Got to be pretty pleased where your game is at.
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I've been playing good for awhile now.  Keep knocking on the door and we'll bust through soon.
Q. How do you balance the disappointment of not getting the win versus realizing you got another good finish?
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, obviously I'm happy with the way I'm playing.  Frustrating because I gave myself a lot of chances.  I just didn't get anything to go in, 14, 15, 16, 17.  I hit good putts, and sometimes they go in and sometimes they don't.  I'm happy with the way I'm playing, and looking forward to playing the next couple weeks in a row.
Q. Did you have a number in mind, once you got to about especially nine or ten?
GARY WOODLAND: Once I was at ten there, I thought if I could get to 12, I would put a lot of pressure on them.  With three to go, obviously it's a big task with 16, 17 and 18.  Hit great shots into 16 and 17.  Had great looks.  Just unfortunate I didn't get one to go in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT