AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 12, 2017
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Gary Woodland has come in after a find round of 65 to discuss what's going on.  I say what's going on because you made three birdies over the first two rounds total for level par then you make 16 birdies at the weekend for 12-under.  What happened?
GARY WOODLAND: I like the weekend, obviously, a lot more.  No, Thursday I played great.  The wind was tough, conditions were really brutal.  I woke up Friday morning with my neck locked up.  Luckily, we had a delay Friday, otherwise I wouldn't have been able to play.  I was thinking about withdrawing.  Fortunately, I only played a couple holes on Friday and we got stopped and I got it released finally Friday night.  Felt great this weekend, obviously, and I came out and played some really good golf.
Q. Have a look, birdie putt here at 7.  How were the greens putting today?
GARY WOODLAND: The greens were good.  For the rain that they got, the greens were good all week.  My pace today finally got on and I obviously rolled the ball very, very well today.
Q. Certainly did.  The birdie on 18.  This is for your 10th birdie of the round.  Which is a career high.
GARY WOODLAND: That was nice.  This is a big swing, I did see Kiz putt right in front of me, so I saw the line and it was all about the pace.  I would like to get there in two, but I will take the birdie.
Q. This is your third top-10 in just seven starts this season.  How good is the form feeling and can you feel that next win on the way?
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, very good.  I've been playing a lot of good golf.  I got a lot of work in with Butch this off season and it's starting to come together.  I'm starting to putt the ball as well as I've putted it really in my life.  Ball striking has always been there, but I'm starting to drive it well, so when I drive it well and make putts, I'm pretty good.
Q. Great round today.  You killed it.  Talk about the 18th.
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I played really well today.  Obviously, I drove the ball phenomenal, we got on the greens in a pretty good spot, they were rolling well, pace was good all day.  It was nice to see some go in yesterday, gave me confidence going into today, and I had it rolling.
Q. Was this the best round you've had at Pebble?
GARY WOODLAND: At Pebble it was.  I played well here last time I was here.  In 2011 I think I shot 5-under with no bogeys and yesterday I shot 5-under and today I shot 7.  So the last couple times I played here, I played pretty well.
Q. How did the conditions the last two days enhance your chances?
GARY WOODLAND: Awesome.  Today the weather is perfect.  Yesterday was great.  Even Friday was pretty good.  Thursday obviously was one of the tougher days we played in a long time.  So to get the weather that we had it the last couple days was very nice.
Q. Do you envision any possibility that you can get this high up the leaderboard when play began today?
GARY WOODLAND: You obviously have that expectation, you want to go out knowing where you were.  Jordan's kind of running away with things, but you want to go out and post a number.  Obviously you try to get as low as you can.  7-under is pretty good, we'll see where that gets me.
Q. And the big difference after the first three days were the flag sticks are all in the same place, today they're in new spots, so fresher greens.
GARY WOODLAND: A little less people on the greens as well.  The greens were great really all week.  They were a little tough on Thursday with all the rain they got, but the crew did a good job because the last three days the ball rolled very good.
Q. 10 birdies in one round.  Career best.  Can you just put that into words of what an accomplishment that's been for you?
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I didn't even know it until I just heard that.  So, obviously that was a career best for me, now it's on to try to make 11, I guess, but I played great today, the golf course was perfect, and it's obviously hard to beat this place.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT