THE BARCLAYS
August 26, 2016
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GARY WOODLAND: Frustrated right now.  Two bogeys, 2-over on the front and I've got a couple par 5s I can get home to.  I finally saw some putts go in today which was nice.  I haven't seen that all year, really.  Made three birdies in a row there to make the turn. It was nice.  I hit the ball better yesterday, didn't get much out.  But seeing some putts go in is definitely encouraging for me right now.
Q. Probably aren't too many courses around that suit your game as much as this one.
GARY WOODLAND: This one is perfect.  I haven't been here since 2009.  Played the U.S. Open here in 2009.  Started off the week pretty good.  The golf course, for me, I can hit a lot of drivers.  It sets up good for the driver for me and the holes I don't hit driver, I'm hitting 3-wood.  Sets up perfect for the draw and the 3-wood.
The rough is up.  I'm driving the ball well right now.   Spent some days with Butch last week focused on driving the golf ball, knowing you're going to need it for this week and the next weeks coming up.  TPC Boston is the same way and Crooked Stick is another bomber's paradise.  Excited about where we are at.
Q. Any technical changes with the putter?
GARY WOODLAND: I changed the putter this week.  I've used the same putter for a long, long time and went to a mallet putter which I haven't used really since college.  I was out working with Paul out at Scotty Cameron last week and wanted to look at something different.  It's been a good change.  Yesterday I putted horrible.  Today I saw some go in.
Q. Even though some guys are scoring pretty well today, do you get the sense that nobody is really going to run away with this on the weekend?
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, depends what this wind does.  The greens were very receptive this morning, hardly any wind.  Yesterday it played very tough in the afternoon.  If there's no wind in the afternoon, the greens are definitely soft enough that the guys can make some birdies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT