THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2016
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How happy are you to have this round behind you and not have to get up real early?  
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, that was very nice.  It was a little concerning there for a little bit.  Didn't look like we were going to get back out.  Then we warmed up and it was coming down pretty good.  Luckily, the officials moved us back a little more, 15 minutes, and gave us some time to get it, and it was nice and calm out.   
 Q.  You can never predict weather, but this place always seems to get hammered.  
GARY WOODLAND: You're in the Midwest.  In the summer, I'm from Kansas, we haven't gotten away from rain.  You're used to it.  You expect it coming in.  The golf course is perfect, though.  Hopefully, we can dodge the rain tomorrow and we can finish this thing tomorrow.   
 Q.  What did you get to do during the break?  
GARY WOODLAND: I ate dinner.  Sat there and -- they said an hour, a little bit over an hour.  So we had some time, we ate.  There was not that many guys in there, so you had plenty of room in there, which is nice.  Usually there's 100 players running around.  There was only 10, 15 of us, so it was pretty relaxing.   
 Q.  You're in a position to make a run tomorrow.  Do you have something in mind?  Do you know who's ahead of you and who's knocking on the door?  
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, obviously, the golf course is perfect.  Hopefully, the rain stays away and we can go out there and make more birdies.  I'm feeling pretty confident about where my game is.  I've been playing well for a while, and it's starting to come together.   
 Q.  Long hitter.  Does the wet probably help you with your game?  
GARY WOODLAND: There's no doubt.  The golf course is definitely going to get some rain tonight, and looks like it's going to keep coming down for a while.  It definitely softened up.  The balls were not rolling the last even couple of holes coming in.  The softness definitely helps me.   
 Q.  It was obviously abbreviated, but was there anything out there after the delay that made you say, all right, this might work for me tomorrow?  
GARY WOODLAND: No, I hit it pretty good all day.  I only missed two fairways.  I hadn't missed a green there.  I missed four in a row in the middle of the ground, but I hit it pretty good all day.  I'm pretty excited about the way my game is right now.   
 Q.  Do you have a number in idea for tomorrow?  
GARY WOODLAND: Obviously, it's weather depending.  If we don't get rain, we're going to have to make birdies.  Hopefully, miss the rain and go out and have some fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT