THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Some thoughts about your round.
GARY WOODLAND: I'm playing some good golf right now.  Really controlling the ball well.  I only missed a couple greens and when I have, I've been on the fringe, so I've had a birdie putt every hole this week, which is nice.  I've had two 3-putts with a bogey.
So it's nice to be controlling the golf ball like I am, give myself a lot of chances, it's nice to get in at 9-under right now.
Q. You played well here a couple years ago in 2014, just is there something about the sight lines of this course that you enjoy?
GARY WOODLAND: I struggled early on this golf course, but the last couple times I been out it's been pretty wide open.  I finished 11th two years ago and last year I was battling food poisoning, but I was playing great coming in and afterwards, so the golf course is setting up good for me.
I'm hitting a lot of 3-woods, only hitting a couple drivers the last couple days, but I'm hitting my irons so well it's playing pretty well.
Q. How have the conditions changed when you went back out versus before?
GARY WOODLAND: The greens were a little bit slower, obviously the rain came down pretty good there for awhile.  But the greens softened up a little bit.  They were starting to get a little firm, which we haven't seen all week, they were starting to firm up a little bit right before the delay, but coming back out of the delay they were soft again.
Q. You birdied 15, and then you had a pars at 16 and 17.  Did you feel that you might have left a couple shots out there?
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, the par-5, obviously, if I hit the ball in the fairway I've going to have a middle iron into 16.  So that was frustrating.
17 I knocked it in there inside 10 feet and missed it.
But it was nice to finish on the last with a birdie.  I'm excited to be done, too, and not have to come back early tomorrow.
Q. I think this is like 12 straight rounds par or better for you.  What's been working for you over those last three four events?
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, I put in a lot of work with Butch the last couple weeks.  I spent about six days out there before New Orleans.  And everything's starting to click.  I'm getting the changes down, I'm getting more comfortable every day, which is a good thing.  And now we're starting to see some putts go in and good things happen when that happens.
Q. Care to share what some of those changes might have been?
GARY WOODLAND: It was a lot.  It was a lot of minor things, but it took me a little while to get it and I'm starting to get pretty comfortable right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT