AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 29, 2015
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about your round a little bit, please?
GARY WOODLAND:   Today was nice.   Yesterday I got off to a good start and gave away a round which was frustrating, especially the way I finished.   Today I came out, had a huge up and down on the 1st Hole.   Made a putt. 
Anytime you can see a putt go in, especially early is nice.   I drove the 11th hole and two-putted for birdie.   Really carried momentum. 
Making the Hole-in-One on 14 was a huge deal that moved us way up obviously.   I had a perfect number for me.   Knocked a little sand wedge in there and then road the momentum all day.   I had it going most of the day.   Made some putts coming in which was nice.

Q.   At the time you made the Hole-In-One, did you know it was an eagle?
GARY WOODLAND:   They told us it was a par 4.   I saw it.   It went from 5 to 4.   I'll take it, either one.   It was nice.   Like I said, it was a perfect number.   It was nice to be moved up to that number.

Q.   Do you feel it was -- when you stuck the ball in or heard --
GARY WOODLAND:   I knew it was good.   I was excited about the number I had.   When I hit it I knew it looked pretty good the whole time.

Q.   Do you think you'll ever be that excited again?
GARY WOODLAND:   You never get that close from where we were today.   We're always laying farther back.   Nice to get so close and get a little sand wedge in your hand.

Q.   Are you relieved to be done with your round and maybe --
GARY WOODLAND:   Absolutely.   You know, the golf course is in great shape minus -- it's just so wet.   It's in the best shape I've seen it in a long time. 
Hopefully it stays like it is right now because it was pretty dry yesterday.   Obviously a lot of rain last night.   I'm excited.   The rain only makes it longer for me.   That's a good thing for me.

Q.   Since they officially changed it to a par 3 does it make it an ace with you?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah.   Still a Hole-In-One.   I'll take it either way.   Par 3, par 4, I'll take it anyway I can.

Q.   Do you have any objections to these kind of conditions or just a day in the office?
GARY WOODLAND:   Just another day.   The weather when we're playing it's been nice.   It's when we're not playing.   The golf course is wet.   It is harder to walk than it is to play.   You're dodging puddles the whole time.   Once you get to the fairways it's pretty good.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT