WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 3, 2015
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Got off to a slow start today.   You cracked your 3‑wood.   Did you get another one in the bag and was it significant?
GARY WOODLAND:   I did.   It was a little cold this morning, and it was tough on the range.   The ball‑‑ broke that face.   It is what it is.   Fortunately I travel with a backup.   I'm used to things happening.
It was no big deal.   It was a stronger 3‑wood that I haven't play now.   I'm actually going to play it next week.   So getting a little rest for next week.

Q.   Number of turning points in the match.   The biggest one had to be on 6.   You drove it left, looked like you were going to be in trouble.   You were able to make birdie and run off three straight wins?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I got off to a good start hitting the ball wise, I just didn't make any putts.   To see the ball go in on 6 was nice from where I was.   I played really solid.

Q.   Seems like it's been tough to grab the speed of the greens, but you were pretty pure all day today?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I think the greens are perfect.   They're rolling so nice.   They're a true roll to it.   I've got a good pace on it right now.   I'm excited about where I'm at.

Q.   This afternoon, your outlook for that?
GARY WOODLAND:   Just keep doing what I've been doing.   I'm in pretty good control of my game right now.   It's obviously been a long week, but I feel pretty good.   The body feels good.   Hopefully we can maintain that.

Q.   What's the strongest point of your game this week?
GARY WOODLAND:   Everything is pretty good.   I drove the ball well, which is pretty nice.   When I see putts go in, it makes things better for me.

Q.   Gary, congratulations, you did it again.   No bogeys on the card again today.   A lot of birdies and the putter worked really well?
GARY WOODLAND:   It did.   I hit the ball really well early and just didn't get any putts to go in.   But then I saw a putt go in there on 6, and I saw a bunch of putts come in after that.   It was nice to see that first one go in and open the door for me.

Q.   That was a 30‑footer, by the way, if you're keeping track at home, of that putt.   Nice par save as you got close to closing out the match.   That was a 14‑footer that you made for the par save?
GARY WOODLAND:   That was huge.   That gained all the momentum.   That would have been a big turn of events if I gave that hole away.   It was nice to slam that door and force him to make some birdies coming in.   I had a nice one drop on the last.

Q.   Yesterday I asked you what it was like to have the early lead and you said, well, the other guy has to play aggressively and make mistakes.   You were down two early, what was the mindset then?
GARY WOODLAND:   It wasn't too different because I was hitting the ball really well.   I just kept telling myself keep doing this, keep doing this, and eventually you're going to get a putt to drop.   And really from start to finish, I hit the ball pretty good today. 

Q.   In the finals.   What does it feel like?
GARY WOODLAND:   It's nice.   It's nice.   It's been a long week.   The body is good, I'm in pretty good shape. 

Q.   Playing Jim, playing Rory, do you change for either of those two guys?
GARY WOODLAND:   No, I don't.   I'm playing the golf course.   Just trying to make a bunch of birdies and hopefully I out‑birdie the other guy.

Q.   Two of the best players in golf, one is a little older, one is a little younger, but fun to test yourself in match play on either one of those guys?
GARY WOODLAND:   You want to beat the best players in the world and either way I'm going to play one of the best players in the world and I'm excited. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT