WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 3, 2015
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Proud of your performance this morning.   5‑under par?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I played really well today.   I did.   I hit some good shots early and didn't see any putts go in for the first four holes. 
The birdie putt on 5 was huge for me.   Even though I halved the hole, it was nice to see a putt go in.   I carried that on.   I made a big putt on 6, a big putt on 7.   I was just trying to get it on the green. 

Q.   You haven't been behind in a single hole since the 15th hole of the first match.   You were behind early on today, how was that affecting you?
GARY WOODLAND:   It was different.   It was different.   I like being ahead a lot more.   But I just kept telling myself I'm hitting it really well, and I continued that all day.   It was nice to drive the ball in the fairway, because that gives me some chances to be a little bit more aggressive and give myself some closer putts.

Q.   You cracked your 3‑wood, did you get a replacement?   What happened?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I did.   It smashed on the range this morning, probably too cold.   Those balls were like rocks.   But it happens. 
I travel with a backup 3‑wood and a backup driver.   So we put the backup in play.   I kind of steered away from it.   I hit it quite a bit on the back nine.   But I hit 2‑iron today just to make sure I got it there.

Q.   You told us you haven't played competitively for a couple of weeks.   You got your game in shape and rested.   How valuable is that with this long week?
GARY WOODLAND:   It's huge.   The training and everything we do, it's a long year, but it's been a long couple of weeks, as well.   I've been home.   I've been working hard.   The body feels great.   I'm energized and ready to go this afternoon.

Q.   How excited are you about the possibilities?   First World Golf Championship would be a huge win for you?
GARY WOODLAND:   It would be.   It's nice.   I'm excited about where I'm at.   I'm excited about where my game is.   I'm excited about what the future holds.

Q.   The majority of the time all week, in all of his matches, Gary Woodland has been up.   But, Gary, you got off to a slow start.   You were 2‑down through your first four holes.   By the time you hit the 9th tee, you were 1‑up.   What switched midway through that opening nine?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, you know, I hit the ball really well early, I just didn't get any putts to go in.   The putt I made on 5 for birdie was a huge putt for me because I saw it go in.   I felt good about myself.   I made a huge putt on 6, a huge putt on 7. 
Then I just rolled with it.   I hit it well all day, obviously.   When you see some putts go in, you can be a little bit more aggressive.

Q.   You talked earlier this week about the fact you've lost 20 pounds.   You said you did that to avoid injury.   And obviously from an endurance perspective, it seems to be working.   You played over 100 holes this week.   How does your body feel right now?
GARY WOODLAND:   I feel great.   I've had two weeks off.   Obviously I've lost some weight.   I feel better.   I can feel it in the evening when I'm done, when I'm back in the bed, kicking my feet up.   I feel a lot better about myself.   It's nice. 
I'm excited about this afternoon.   I'm excited about the endurance test.

Q.   You do have one match for all the marbles to win this championship.   What do you need to do mentally to prepare for it before you hit that first tee?
GARY WOODLAND:   I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing.   I'm excited about the position I'm in.   I'm excited about my game.   I'm excited about what the future holds for me right now.   I'm feeling great.   I'm excited about what this afternoon holds. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT