WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 2, 2015
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You saw this golf course and thought you could hit lots of drivers.   What is it about this venue that you enjoy so much?  
GARY WOODLAND:   It sets up the treeline, just sets up well to my eye.   That's the key.   It's long, too.   The fairways are pretty receptive as well.   It widens the fairways for me.   If I get driver down there far enough, I can get wedge on the green from about anywhere.   I like the setup.   The format allows me to play aggressive, which for me is key.  
   
 Q.   How do you measure your emotions as they vary through the ebbs and flows of a match like this?  
GARY WOODLAND:   I stay pretty level keel all day.   I don't get too up or too down.   I try to stay where I'm at which is a good thing.   There's a lot of ups and down in this game.   Fortunately today I played really well.   I got up early, I kind of maintained it.   He made a couple of birdies on me, but I fired right back there on 14, 15.   It was a solid day for me.   I'm happy with the way I'm playing.   
   
 Q.   Another thriller, 3‑up at one point in the match, it got to all square but you rallied to win?  
GARY WOODLAND:   I played well today.   I only gave one away and that was on 10 there.   Marc made a couple of birdies to get it back to all square, and then I saw some puts go in on the back nine which is nice.   All in all it was a solid day, I'm happy with the way I'm playing and looking forward to this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   All square as you go to 14.   He's in closer than you are and you roll in that 29‑footer.   Tell us about the putt.   
GARY WOODLAND:   It was nice.   I made some putts earlier and I hadn't seen much go in for a couple of holes.   You are trying to get it up there close, put pressure on him.   He had a downhiller.   It was nice for it to go in.   I was trying to get it close and it fell in.   That gave me momentum going to the next hole.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT