CIMB CLASSIC
November 1, 2014
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So another good start for an event here in Malaysia for you.   You were in a playoff last year, and you've continued your good play here.   What is it about this course?
GARY WOODLAND:   The golf course sets up good to my eye, you know.   It's one I feel like I can attack.   The par‑5s are all gettable.   You get four opportunities with four par‑5s.   So if I drive the ball in play, I have a pretty good chance to be successful out there. 

Q.   And then just talk about‑‑ because I mean you're a longer hitter.   What are you hitting off the tee?   Are you mainly irons?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I'm playing pretty aggressive.   The back nine, you know, the last four or five holes you're hitting irons, but outside of that I'm hitting a lot of drivers, a lot of 3‑woods. 
The fairways, especially with how soft they are, they're a little wider, so if you can drive the ball in play, you're having a ton of wedges into the greens.
Fortunately today I drove the ball in the fairway and that was the big difference versus the first two days.

Q.   Do you feel you have some unfinished business from last year or have you put that out of your mind?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I mean I take a lot out of last year.   I mean obviously I played well.   The golf course sets up great to my eye. 
The difference last year I attacked the par‑5s.   This year the par‑5s have been killing me, so I need to change that for tomorrow.   If I want to have a chance to win and I play the par‑5s well tomorrow, I should be all right.

Q.   How do you feel?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah, I feel great.   I'm healthy, I feel good.   It was nice, I saw Butch last week.   It was nice to get some find of fine tune.   I've been off six weeks, so I feel fresh, kind of feel the start of a new year.   But I do.   I feel good about my golf swing, and I feel good about where my game is.

Q.   So was that injury you had?
GARY WOODLAND:   Yeah.   I've been battling injuries the last couple of years, so I was healthy most of last year, and it's nice to be healthy right now as well.

Q.   Was it in the shoulder or wrist?
GARY WOODLAND:   Wrist.   Two wrist injuries and just dealt with it for a year and a half, but all good now.

Q.   So you imagine tomorrow, what's it going to take do you think?
GARY WOODLAND:   I'm going to have to make some more birdies, kind of do the same thing I did today.   I just need to attack the par‑5s better tomorrow.
I played the par‑5s even today.   It's the par‑5s that I'm hitting irons in, so I need to drive the ball in the fairway.   If I do that, I should be all right. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT