VERIZON BYRON NELSON CLASSIC
May 11, 2001
Robert Damron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROBERT DAMRON:   Well, it's just nice to be there.  You know, it's been a little while since I've put together a few good rounds in a row, even two really, but I've been playing well and I've been expecting good things.  It just hasn't been coming together yet.


Q.  What's been the problem there?  Can you pinpoint it?

ROBERT DAMRON:   I worked hard on making a couple swing changes to hit it better.  I noticed that the best players that I see week in, week out that always play well, the Vijays and Tigers and Duvals, hit it really solid, and they seem to give themselves a lot of chances.  They can all be shaky putters at times, so I didn't like where I sat on the greens stats, and I didn't like how I was hitting it, so I made a few changes, and those have worked out well.  I've been hitting it a lot better, so I expected good things and my putter and my chipper left me.  But hopefully that's turning around a little bit this week.


Q.  What specifically are you doing mechanically to effect these changes?

ROBERT DAMRON:   Well, it's kind of a combination of stuff.  Mostly it's just a swing plank and being connected, you know, more body, club and hands working together rather than fighting one another. 


Q.  Who did you go to and how long has it taken?

ROBERT DAMRON:   Adrian Wadey.  We've been working together three years.  It's still work in progress.  You know, I don't like to take my swing, break it apart because it takes a lot of time to recuperate after that.  You're looking at a potential long stretch, so I've worked at it slowly, but steadily for about three years now.


Q.  You picked up several strokes on the back nine.  Was there any difference between how the back nine was playing from the front in terms of the fairway to the greens at all?

ROBERT DAMRON:   Not really.  The wind actually got a little softer.  I just got a couple putts and gave myself a couple more chances.  Just coincidence I guess we'll call it. 


Q.  Is this a golf course that you like?  Do you feel like it suits your game in the past?

ROBERT DAMRON:   Yeah.  I've played some good rounds here.  I don't think that I've ever had any real high finishes, but I've been in the lead in tournaments a couple times late actually just to kind of finish poorly, but so I like it here.  I've shot some good rounds out here. 


Q.  Could you sense at all the galleries in terms of playing behind Tiger?  What was that like?

ROBERT DAMRON:   Well, you have to give them -- as soon as Tiger's group's done and they've left the green, you still have to wait a little bit to let everybody else that's going to -- cameras and media and gallery -- that's going to follow him because it's kind of a madhouse, but it's okay.  It's the kind of thing where if you're playing poorly, it's going to bother you a lot.  If you're playing well, it's all right. 


Q.  Do you have some loyal gallery members of your own?

ROBERT DAMRON:   No.  Ed Fryatt's wife was pretty friendly, Clapped for me a few times.  She was out there.  She clapped more for Ed, though. 


Q.  When did you first start seeing some results from these changes?

ROBERT DAMRON:   I started hitting it really well two, three weeks before the season started.  I was excited about coming out and playing.  Never done that well on the West Coast and after the West Coast swing, I said, well, that's all right.  I didn't play that well, but I'm still hitting it good.  I'll make some putts in Florida, which I always do, and I didn't.  Even home at Bay Hill I hit a lot of putts that I thought were going to go in and didn't, and so I just I actually made a putter change this week.  This is my third one.  I've used the same putter probably for, I don't know, 99 percent of my tournaments that I've played in, and changed putters this week, and they were going in so far.


Q.  Have you spent so much time working on your changes have you spent a little less time working maybe on your short game?

ROBERT DAMRON:   No.  I've never been one to work much on my putting.  I've always just had confidence in it, and any time I went to the putting green I made a lot of putts, and my thought was do I want to sit around and wait till I miss, you know, so why practice.  Maybe -- I think it's linked with just wanting to make them too bad because I am hitting it better, and I feel like I should be shooting lower numbers, and instead of just feeling like I'm going to make 'em, I've kind of wanted and I've tried to force them in a little bit, and it hasn't been working so far.


Q.  What putter did you change to?

ROBERT DAMRON:   Seymore.  I've used -- it's my first ever start without a Scotty Cameron putter.  Hopefully he still talks to me. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT