THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2000
Robert Damron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ROBERT DAMRON: 3, I hit it six feet, made that birdie and 4, I hit it about two feet,
made birdie. So that is a good start. 6, I hit it about four feet, made birdie. So that
kind of got everything going and then, oh, what else happened, I made a great up-and-down,
a horrible shot off the 8th tee; made a great up-and-down kind of kept me going. Holed it
out of the bunker on 9. So that added up to 31 with a couple of loose shots that I got
away with. Then hit a good second shot on 10, I thought, and there is just a lot of bumps
and humps out here and I must have hit the end of one of them; kicked it off of left off
the green, made bogey there. Up-and-down out of the bunker on 11. 15-footer on 12, and
birdie birdie and parred in. I was just happy to do it.

Q. Get close enough to the lead or get in contention for Sunday or not?

ROBERT DAMRON: Might need a little wind to kick up. Hal is playing awfully good; saw on
the board he has already got a birdie under his belt. I don't know, I am just happy with
my round, you know, if you would have asked me after Thursday's round, I'd bet I was going
to be home on Saturday and Sunday because I didn't play that well; didn't feel like I was
striking it that well. The course just seemed impossible.

Q. (inaudible)

ROBERT DAMRON: If somebody told me on Thursday I'd be 2-under on Sunday, I would have
felt great. It played so hard on Thursday. I have never played a course played as hard as
it did on Thursday. Then yesterday was no piece of cake, but it lightened up a little.
Today obviously the wind laid down, sun's out, it is perfect. Hopefully it will kick up,
though. I'd kind of feel it coming.....

Q. Might need more than that with Tiger?

ROBERT DAMRON: He is pretty good, isn't he? I am not worried about Tiger. Like I said,
I am just happy to play good and whatever I do tomorrow I will do and go into next week.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT