FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 26, 1997
Robert Damron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Well, I guess I just carried over from last week's confidence a little bit, carried over into this week.  And, that is good.  That is fine by me.  I changed putters last week.  Scotty Cameron sent me a new putter and a little shorter like the one I had used before I came out here.  And it was - it worked very well last week and again today.  So, hopefully, it will work well the rest of my life.  I don't think it will, though. 
 

Q.  Is that the key to getting on a roll, that putter?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Yeah, that is the only thing that gets you going.  If you don't putt well, you are just not going to play well. 
 

Q.  I understand the greens out here are real conducive to get some --
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  I can make some putts, yeah.  They are really true and they are perfect speed to knock a lot of them in.  John Cook did last year, obviously, he made everything.  You know, they suit me, I think.  Hopefully I will continue to think that through the end of the week.  
 

Q.  How many times have you been on the leaderboard and come into the interview room to talk?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Here? 
 

Q.  Any interview room.
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  On the leaderboard this year? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  I don't know, six times. 
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  I have dropped off a few times, too. 
 

Q.  Is this the first time you have had a lead after the first round or at least --
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  I was tied for the lead after the first round in Greensboro. 
 

Q.  Make your approach to the second round any differently?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  No, you have just got to keep making birdies out here or you will get spike marks up your back. They run right over you.  It is not like last week's course where pars are good.  You have got to continue to make birdies. 
 

Q.  Do you consider yourself to be the frontrunner for Rookie-of-the-Year?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  I have been told that Frank Nobilo is eligible for Rookie-of-the-Year.  You know, it is not something I can really think about  or set my sights on because it is something that the players vote on.  It is not something that I can achieve myself.  If I play great, and somebody plays a little better, then they are going to win.  So, I just have to keep playing well.  If I get voted Rookie-of-the-Year then that will be great. 
 

Q.  You obviously don't think Nobilo should be eligible, right?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Sure, I do.  If he is in.  It's his first full year on Tour and it's in the guidelines, then absolutely. 
 

Q.  But, you are laughing saying it.
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Well, he's a little old, isn't he? (Laughter.)  (Audience Laughter)  No.  No.  I don't know if that is the case or not.  I have been told it is.  But, no, I think if it is the case, he deserves it to this point.  Because he has got the win, of course. 
 

Q.  Tell us about your round.  Just kind of go through -- where did your birdies come from?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  I started off on 10, and I started kind of slow.  Hit some decent shots and missed a couple of putts early.  Hit a couple of good putts that didn't go in and then on, what was that, 15 the dog-leg left.  I hit it with pitching  wedge about 15 feet, left on the fringe and made it.  Then I birdied the next two.  And so that kind of got me going.  And then made the turn and had a little momentum going, hit it really close on 2 with an 8-iron.  I got up-and-down on 3 for birdie, and then I had got up-and-down on 5 for birdie.  I think my wedge saved me a little bit on the front 9.  My back 9, I think that I got up-and-down on 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and then 2-putted across the fringe on 9.  Up-and-down saved me a little at the end of the round. 
 

Q.  You have a lot of family here?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Yeah, I am from Kentucky originally. That is where they are staying right now.  So, they drove down to see me.  They don't get to watch very often. 
 

Q.  Who is here?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Mom, dad, aunt and uncle.  I have got a few more coming tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Would they have been coming anyway, or was it because of the round you shot?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Oh, no, they were coming anyway. 
 

Q.  How often have mom and dad seen you this year?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Bayhill and TPC, I think it is, off the top of my head.  I think that is it. 
 

Q.  Where do you folks live?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Live in Orlando half the year and Pikeville, Kentucky half the year.  
 

Q.  Was your dad in the coal business in eastern Kentucky?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Then he moved to Orlando, as I understand it, got to be good friends with Arnold Palmer?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Yeah.  Dad retired young out of the coal business and didn't like the snow and liked to play golf, so we started to spend all our winters in Orlando.  And, yeah, we moved into Bayhill, and Mr. Palmer owns it, so, yeah, he was kind of a hero of mine growing up.  I guess everybody else's too. 
 

Q.  He helped you out with your game?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  With my game, a little.  Not so much, you know, the way I hit the ball, but the way I approach, how I play and how I think and how I approach the game. 
 

Q.  Did you get any advice in terms of, I mean, being a rookie out here, how to handle yourself, how to pace yourself?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Definitely.  I was open ears for any advice that anybody that has been out here was going to give me.  And I still am.  I am still learning.  There is a lot of stuff that I still don't know.  And, you know, I have got a couple of good friends out here and we have a big brother system.  If you have any questions, you are supposed to go to him and he has helped me out a little.  So, I am always open for advice from the players. 
 

Q.  Did it take any time to get to build your confidence  to a level where you felt like, hey, I belong here just like anybody else?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  My first round out here on Tour this year -- was it Bob Hope?  I 3-putted 18 for 67 and I was on the leaderboard the first round and I think that round helped a lot, actually, to feel comfortable and make a lot of birdies and see my name on the leaderboard.  And, I just -- I played solid the whole week and finished 20th.  So, I don't think I started with much of a downtime.  I felt like I had pretty good confidence just off that, my first tournament. 
 

Q.  What is your father's first name and what year was it that you all moved down to Orlando?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Bill.  And, I am going to say 1974? Probably, I was about 2. 
 

Q.  How old were you the first time you played golf with Arnold Palmer?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  16, probably. 
 

Q.  There aren't many 24 year olds on Tour.  What do you do afterwards?  Tiger says he likes to play ping-pong?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  I am a channel surfer, I wish I could find a ping-pong player.  I used to play a lot back home.  I would play him.  I don't do much.  I just, you know, crash at the hotel and if some of the guys want to go to dinner we will go and come back and watch a lot of television. 
 

Q.  Have the older veterans been receptive towards you? 
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Very much.  Surprisingly so. 
 

Q.  Do the young guys stick together at all?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Of course.  You feel kind of a bond with the guys, all your first year, you know, you feel a little  -- not intimidated, but a little awkward at first.  So, you know, we try to feed off each other a little bit, I think.  And I think that, you know, a few of them have come up to me and said, you know, I am glad to see you play well and it kind of helps motivate me to do well.  So I think that is good. 
 

Q.  Aren't you and Ernie Els pretty good friends?  Do you hang out --
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  No, we don't hang together much. Pretty good friends, yeah, but we got a long well.  We played together and we have discussed, hey, let us play golf when we are in town, but we haven't yet. 
 

Q.  Did your gallery pick up at all today?
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  No, not that I noticed.  I didn't really pay too much attention. 
 
ROBERT DAMRON:  Pitching wedge to 15 and then made about a 10-, 12-footer off the left.  16, the par 5, I hit it 2, driver, driver, and just 2-putted from about 30 feet, 25 feet.  And next hole, 17, was the best birdie I made all  day.  I hit cuts, so this wasn't the easiest shot he for me, hit my drive on the left side.  There was a tree blocking me out.  I had to hit kind of a wide draw around the tree, and to get it back to the hole and I hit it perfectly and the ball hit about ten feet short of the hole going right at it and it was about 8, 9 feet left of the hole, ended up probably the best shot I hit today, then I made that putt.  5-iron.  193.  2, I hit 3-wood off the tee and 8-iron right behind the hole, about 3 and a half, four feet.  And made that.  The next hole par 5, I went for it in 2, hit really good hard drive.  And, 3-wood, I think I had 218 front in the wind hit 3-wood just through the left and got that up-and-down.  I made about 8-footer.  Then next hole, the next par 5, two holes later, went for it in two and knocked my 3-wood out to the right, got that up-and-down.  Did I make one more birdie?  No, that was it. The par 5, okay.  It was about a 4-foot. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT