84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 20, 2003
Robert Damron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  p>
 
You followed a 67 up with a 66 today.  Why don't you share some thoughts on your day and then we'll get your seven birdies and one bogey.

ROBERT DAMRON:   You know, fairways and greens, pretty much, and not just that; hitting to the right side of the greens because the greens are so wet that if you don't hit it exactly where you want to, you're going to have a really difficult 2-putt, just pretty much did that today.

No. 1 was just a good drive down the right center, sand wedge to three feet and tapped it in.

9, again, yesterday, driver 6-iron to about one inch.  Today, driver 6-iron, almost made it again, but it went about three feet past, four feet past and made that, no problem.  I hit a decent drive.  I'm trying to lay up to the top with a 3-wood, and it's kind of a blind third shot if you leave it too far down.  So I laid up in the water left side.  I tried to hit a cut 3-wood and it just didn't cut it.  It wasn't a bad swing; it was just one of those things.  I actually dropped it and hit a 9-iron up close and almost made par.  So I wasn't too unhappy with bogey there. 

I birdied two holes later, which was 13.  9-iron to 15 feet, and that was about the best putt I've hit all week.  That was just in right off the putter face, so that was good. 

16, par 5, I made a pretty good drive and then I had 258 to the hole which I was a little surprised because it played  -- it seemed like it played so short yesterday, or two days ago, but anyway, I just hit kind of a smooth 3-wood.  It's something that you can do when you get the ball in your hand and you can kind of tee it up and lift up the grass, and so a smooth 3-wood, it landed in the middle of the green, you know, 18 feet maybe, for eagle and just missed it. 

17 was a 7-iron.  Just a soft little 7-iron, I knew I could cut it, so I could go right at it pretty much without worrying about hitting left in the water, and I hit a good shot maybe five feet behind the hole.  


Q.  Inaudible?

ROBERT DAMRON:   It was 168 and I tried to hit a 160 shot  -- way up.  Maybe six off the front edge. 


Q.  Some players were saying lift, clean and place is an advantage --.

ROBERT DAMRON:   Well, it's not, because I'm not the only one.  It's a level playing field. 

In general, it's a big deal with the irons because you get to take the mud off the ball.  Mud can really wreak havoc with your shot.  The fairways are so good out here, it's not really getting a better lie.  It's just cleaning it off, is the big deal.

But, like I said, I wouldn't call it an advantage because everyone is doing it.  If I was the only one doing it, it would be a huge advantage. 


Q.  What did you do with the day off yesterday?

ROBERT DAMRON:   Drove to Hopwood and did laundry, really exciting.  Honestly, I think the TV was off and I was laying in bed around 8:00 last night.  I didn't sleep well the night before.  My baby was up with a cold all night and my wife and I were both pretty sleepy. 

So, I caught up on a lot of sleep.  I still had to get up at 5:45 this morning. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ROBERT DAMRON:   Yeah, I mean, obviously you know that it's going to be pretty soft and the greens are going to hold, but they weren't firm on Thursday.  Honestly the course did a great job of taking the rain.  I don't think  -- have we been playing the ball down, I could have taken casual water relief at all today.  The greens were soft, but they weren't ridiculous where they are spiking up and your heel prints and ball is spinning back a lot. 

Like I said, the course did an unbelievable job.  We were kind of lucky, too, not getting all the rain that we were supposed to. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ROBERT DAMRON:   I don't care as long as they keep doing it.  Two days in a row, I've had a little in-between yardage and took the 6-iron and opened it up to hit a little cut; maybe I should cut them all for the rest of the week.  Just worked out well. 


Q.  Winning score?

ROBERT DAMRON:   I imagine 20 would be pretty close.  The only difference with tomorrow  -- it's not really sunny and windy, so it can't dry out that much if we play 36. 

So the only real difference would be pin placement, and I would say 20 would be a good spot to be.  It would definitely play tougher just because of trickier pin placements.  I think they had to put them in more open and a little higher areas to make sure that we didn't put it down where it had puddled up or got too soft after all the rain. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ROBERT DAMRON:   Front left.  Back right yesterday.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT