WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2000
Jeff Tarango
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Good afternoon, Ladies and Gentlemen. Mr. Tarango.  
 
Q. Can you explain why you didn't shake his hand?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, I just -- you know, we fought so hard and so long. He called the
trainer before my serve twice at the end. I got a lot tighter. My muscles were a lot more
stiff. I just thought it was a little bush league. I figured he should be calling the
trainer before his own serve if he was so seriously hurt. I know he runs like a deer, so
he couldn't have been that hurt. I don't think it's right for a guy to get a massage in
the middle of the match. 
 
Q. Do you think he was faking the injury? 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Did you see him miss any steps?  
 
Q. We want to know what you think. 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Of course he was faking the injury. He was fine.  
 
Q. You said he was cramping. You can cramp, get treated, go back out and run.
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Maybe the girls can; not the guys. Cramping is no excuse to get a
trainer. 
 
Q. He said he was pretty shocked that another former Stanford player is accusing him of
gamesmanship. 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Gamesmanship or not, I just thought it was bush league. I didn't think it
was cool. He played a good match, but he's got to earn my respect in different ways. 
 
Q. According to the ITF, you can call a trainer at any time, Jeff. 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Yeah, that's fine. That's the way they have the rule now. I guarantee
it's changed by the end of this year. 
 
Q. How is it going to change?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: They'll just change that you can't call a trainer before your opponent's
serve. 
 
Q. Is it proper to treat the guy like that just because he followed the rules that you
don't agree with? 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, hey, listen, the rules are interpreted in a thousand different ways
every day. The overrule rule today was interpreted in six different ways. It's my option
whether I want to shake a guy's hand or not. You know, nobody makes that decision but me.
That's the way it goes. 
 
Q. How many times have you not shook an opponent's hand after a match?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I think that's the third time. 
 
Q. When were the other two?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: In Shanghai against Leander Paes, and against Filippini at the French
Open. 
 
Q. What were the circumstances, do you remember?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, Leander Paes hit me with an overhead in singles in the small of the
back from three feet away. Filippini was a very long story, but the fact that he was
calling me names in between every point was the reason I didn't shake his hand.  
 
Q. Do you think your concentration on what Paul did about calling the trainer affected
your concentration on the match and caused you to lose it?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Not at all. I had the mentality out there that no matter what happened, I
was going to fight my ass off and try to win the match. I knew the obstacles were going to
be against me as soon as I didn't get a day off and had to play back-to-back against two
top-notch players. I was actually cruising until I started feeling a little tired in the
second set. You know, I just dug as deep as I could and fought as hard as I could. I felt
like I played a really good match, that I'm playing better than I ever played, that my age
is not a factor at all, that I'm in better shape than most of the guys on the tour. I
think I still have a lot of good tennis in front of me. 
 
Q. Any thought of calling a guy on it when it happened?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: It's like you said, I mean, the rule is the way the rule is. There's
nothing I can do about it. That would distract me if I were to call a guy on it. It's
better for me to think, "How can I use it to my advantage, try to turn it around to
win the match?"  
 
Q. Is this going to be one of the deals when you wake up tomorrow morning and say,
"I made a mistake, should have shook the guy's hand"? 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: There might come a time where I feel Paul Goldstein is a really good guy.
I don't know him that well. We were seven years apart in school. He hasn't been around
that long on the tour. I don't really know the guy at all. Sure, there might be a time
where I think Paul Goldstein is a good guy and I want to shake his hand, but not right
now. 
 
Q. You said that Scott Humphries screwed you at the Lipton. What did you mean by that
comment and what happened at the Lipton?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well at Lipton, I hit Humphries with a reaction volley. It ricocheted off
of his body and went out. The referee asked him if it hit him. I asked him. My partner
asked him. He said, "No, it didn't." Took the point instead of being breakpoint
for us. Then after the match, he told his partner that it did hit him, and he and his
partner gave each other high-fives and bragged about it to the Bryan brothers. If you
think that's respectable, that's how I'm looking at that team at that point. 
 
Q. Who was Scott's partner?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Gambill. 
 
Q. Did losing the double-fault there affect whether you were going to shake Paul's hand
or had you decided beforehand that you just didn't want to shake his hand?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: As I was walking to the net, that's what I thought about. I wasn't
thinking about anything except trying to win the match. 
 
Q. If you win the match, does it change anything? Do you shake his hand if you win the
match?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I don't know.  
 
Q. Any reason why you didn't shake the hand of the umpire?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I did. I thought Gerry did a great job. He had a lot of obstacles out
there. There were a lot of unbelievably tight calls. He missed a couple that were in front
of him, but they were balls that were going really, really fast. You know, that kind of
thing, he impressed me actually with how he did. I've had him in times previous where he
hasn't done a great job or maybe had an off day. I thought he was really good today. You
know, some of those balls are going too fast and at angles that you can't say where it's
bouncing or where it's coming off the court unless you're playing. I would say in the
final four or five games, at least there were five calls that went against me, and
probably there were ten calls that could have gone either way. That's just the way it
goes. 
 
Q. I know you're upset at Paul, but there's nothing harder in tennis than to get a
match point that you just had overruled. 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Did you see how far the ball was in?  
 
Q. Were you impressed in any way that Paul didn't complain, or you thought that was a
matter of course?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, I mean, he was playing the point. He still was running after the
next shot. He didn't even know they had called it out yet. The ball was literally this far
inside the line (indicating about a foot).  
 
Q. Did the crowd's reaction bother you when they booed you off the court? Did that
upset you at all?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: No. 
 
Q. For right or for wrong, the events of several years ago established a reputation for
you. This will unquestionably add to it. Is that something that concerns you?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: What do you mean "this will add to it"? I mean, I can't control
what the masses think. If you can't interpret the incident for what it is and see it from
my perspective then, you know, you guys can write whatever you want. If you see it from my
perspective, I don't think I did anything wrong. 
 
Q. You mentioned Scott as his teammate. You're talking about the USTA program? 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: They were both on the Stanford team. 
 
Q. The USTA supports you also, or is there --?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I haven't seen any support.  
 
Q. Does that bother you?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: It just bothers me that the head of national coaches is warming up my
opponent. That bothers me. 
 
Q. A lot of the Stanford guys have a strong allegiance to their Cardinal roots. 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Scott McCain went to Berkeley. That's who coaches those two guys. 
 
Q. I'm talking just in general. 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: So do I. I think I talk to Dick Gould more than anybody.  
 
Q. Do you feel a strong allegiance to your alma mater?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Yeah. It's the greatest school in the world, there's no question about
it. Dick Gould is probably the greatest tennis individual there is. I've been wondering
why he doesn't take more of a role in junior development. But, you know, I don't really
understand the question.  
 
Q. I was just wondering if you had a strong allegiance to your alma mater?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I think Stanford is the greatest place in the world. They told me I could
come back and finish up in a buggy cart if I need to get around. 
 
Q. Do you think it's interesting that Dick, who is so mild-mannered, so evenhanded, has
built a program where actually many really intense players have come out of the program,
like John and yourself?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: It's percentages, I think. 
 
Q. Paul said that when he came out on tour two years ago, Stark and O'Brien kind of
helped mentor him, but you essentially had minimal contact with him and really never said
anything to help him getting started on the tour. 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Who?  
 
Q. Goldstein said that. 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Yeah, well, he never came up to me and asked any questions. He never even
really came up and introduced himself to me or vice versa.  
 
Q. As the older player, you don't feel like it's your role to go up to the younger
players and talk to them first?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: To say what? "Welcome to the locker room. Don't bend over for the
soap."  
 
Q. Whatever happened to the purported match between you and John McEnroe a couple years
back when McEnroe was flirting with coming back on the regular tour?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Nothing, nothing at all.  
 
Q. Let me ask you one other thing. You have made a great comeback from that 1995 fracus
with Alexander Mronz. What's become of him?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I think he retired right after.  
 
Q. Do you know hope that Bruno Rebeuh umpire's Paul's next match?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: No comment.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT