US OPEN
August 30, 1997
Jeff Tarango
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Was quite a wild atmosphere out there? 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Yeah. 
 
Q. Do you thrive on that or does that bother you, especially when the crowd really
seemed to turn over to the Australian side?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: No. I think that's the way tennis should be played. I think every match
in tennis should be like that. Unfortunately, there's not enough personalities to bring
that out. 
 
Q. Scott seemed to think, though, that some of the antics might have backfired on you a
little bit.
 
 JEFF TARANGO: What antics would those be? 
 
Q. Well, he cited one where you berated a ball girl for throwing away a half eaten
banana, or just stalling tactics. "He fed off the crowd," he said.
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Okay. 
 
Q. Do you ever feel like that they might backfire against you?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, I didn't feel that that was an antic. The girl spilled All Sport
all over my stuff, made my shoes sticky, threw away my banana. I didn't think that was an
antic, maybe I'm misinterpreting it. 
 
Q. You also were complaining, I guess, to the umpire about a woman heckler. What was
she saying? Why was that so bothersome?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, I'm out there for four hours and some lady's telling me to hurry up
and play and try harder. I think that's pretty ridiculous when I don't think she can run
six blocks. 
 
Q. Isn't that also part of tennis, too?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: What? 
 
Q. You say you want the atmosphere, people involved.
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I think they should show a certain amount of respect for an athlete
that's out there trying their hardest. Pretty hypocritical for her to tell me to run more
when she probably couldn't even make it down the street. 
 
Q. Did you actually engage her in conversation?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I didn't know exactly who it was. I asked them to watch because I've had
some problems down at Lipton, and I didn't want those problems to happen again. 
 
Q. Were you happy with your game?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: No. I would have liked to win. 
 
Q. Besides that, though, were you happy with the way you played?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Huh? 
 
Q. Just your performance in general?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: No. I would have liked to win. I think I should have beat him. If I
wouldn't have played five sets yesterday and the five sets the day before that, I think I
would have beaten him. 
 
Q. What are your thoughts about the match, Jeff?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I'm pretty disappointed. I feel like I should have won the match. If I
had won the first set, I probably would have won in straight sets. I thought I had a good
chance to win the fourth. I thought I had a good chance to win the fifth. You know, he
came up with some really good shots down the stretch, but I felt I shouldn't have let it
get there. 
 
Q. And the key to the fifth set?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, I just didn't hold my serve as well as I have the whole tournament.
Actually the last three or four weeks, I've been serving pretty great. I didn't serve that
well down the stretch. I probably served too much the last couple days playing five sets
of doubles yesterday and five sets of singles the day before. I think my arm was a little
heavy. I think that showed.  
 
Q. What about the short overhead? From an outsider, it looks like a fairly routine
shot. Is that a surprisingly tough shot?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: It's tough with the lights there in the middle of the day, spotlights
shining in your eyes. It's pretty difficult. I thought I hit it pretty well. He jumped up
and made a pretty miraculous shot, I thought, and made a good shot after that. I think you
have to give him credit at that point. 
 
Q. When did they turn the lights on?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Five o'clock. 
 
Q. That bothered you?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, I think it's pretty ridiculous, five o'clock in the afternoon, to
turn on lights just because Scott Draper requests it at the US Open. It's pretty strange
to me. 
 
Q. Did he request it right then? When did he request it?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: He requested it before five and they got it at five. They said, "Oh,
that's about what time we turn them on anyway." They never mentioned they were going
to turn the lights on before the match, which they should do. 
 
Q. You think because he wanted them on -- 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: They didn't ask me. The chair umpire said, "Okay" flipped the
lights on. 
 
Q. It's not like at five o'clock they were going to turn the lights on no matter what?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: No. They said they start at about that time. 
 
Q. Did you ask to have them turned off?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Yes. I think it's ridiculous to have lights on at five in the afternoon. 
 
Q. Do you think people at this point come to your matches to see some kind of uproar?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, no. I think at this point the press writes whatever the hell they
want to write, they don't really take in consideration the hard work that goes into this.
And I don't think you guys really see how hard we're trying out there. You don't see the
day in, day out rigors of the Tour. I think you're a little bit critical of my matches,
when, if you go watch the other matches a lot some, if not all, the same things are going
on. I think the interpretation that you guys make is a slanted one. I really have no
control over that. Then the people read that. Of course, most people on the earth believe
whatever they read. That's just the way it is. I mean, I'm not affected by it at all.  
 
Q. I don't quite understand. I mean, I don't want to get into a back and forth, but in
England I showed you some coverage on yourself. You said it was accurate. Is this a
pattern that you're talking about?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: No. I think that was a good article that I read there. Those were
basically all my quotes. I thought I was pretty right. I don't understand your question. 
 
Q. Well, my question is: What is the basis of your comment that the media does not
understand?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, because my doubles partner and I the other night are out playing
and we're both fighting our butts off out there; we're having a great time. The crowd is
getting really into it. The press comes over and they immediately say, "Jeff Tarango
and Guillaume Raoux are getting into it over there," trying to make a big hype that
we're arguing, yelling at each other, when we're fully having one of the best matches
played at the tournament, playing probably the highest quality of tennis that was played
thus far. Instead of saying, "What a great match is going on over here, two great
players are really fighting it out," it's all of a sudden some kind of hype to get
some kind of controversy going. I don't see why that started. You guys have the freedom to
do whatever you want. And I think you should be a little more careful. 
 
Q. I asked about the fans. I didn't ask about the press.
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, because I think the fans read what's in the press and they come
into it based on what they read. I saw an article after the Raoux match, "Terrible
Tarango." The next day. I think that's absolutely ridiculous. 
 
Q. Jeff, was the grandstand full today by the fifth set of your match because it was a
great match or do you think the crowd just heard about you playing?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: You know, I don't know. I don't know what the initial thing is. I think
that initially they hear that, yeah, Tarango is over there playing, so it's probably
exciting. 
 
Q. Isn't that good for you?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, why would it be? It's good for me in the fact that I love to play
exciting matches like that, yeah. But, you know, as far as the day in, day out, reading
the BS in the press, no. That's not good for me. I'm out here just like any other player
trying my hardest every day. I get bad press and all the other guys it's fine. 
 
Q. When it was deep in the fifth set and you turned to the crowd and said, "You
either love me or hate me," what was behind that comment?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, it seems like the crowd, there's people in the crowd that are
either diehards: They want me to win, and then there's people out there, doesn't matter
what kind of effort you put in, no matter what kind of attitude you have on the court,
don't like you because of what they've read before and have their mind made up. It just
seems like over and over again these people come out with this idea already of me. I think
that's a little ridiculous because they're given a wrong impression in the press. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT