U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1996
Jeff Tarango
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jeff, what was the key overall for you tonight?

JEFF TARANGO: Well, at 5-1, I think in the second set, he was up. I wasn't serving well
at all the whole second set. At the beginning of that game, I said, "Listen, if I
don't start serving better, I have no chance of winning the match. I might as well take my
time, don't worry if you double-fault a couple times this game, lose this game, but just
get the rhythm back on the serve." It was a long game, got down Love-40, a few
deuces. As soon as I held that game, I knew I had a really good chance because my serve
just came back. The rest of the match I got a lot of free points on my serve. I think I
needed to get free points on my serve in order to win the match.

Q. Jeff, how hard or easy is it for you to compartmentalize problem times when you have
problems with an umpire or linesmen? You seem unfazed as far as your game is concerned.
You seem to be able to not let it affect your game.

JEFF TARANGO: I take that as a compliment. I've worked on that for 20 years now. I
started playing tennis when I was seven. It's something that's very distracting. I mean,
when you get a bad call, when something happens, doesn't go your way out on the court,
it's very easy to get distracted. I just told myself that I wasn't going to let anything
bother me, just stay focused. I knew it was going to be a tough match and one point here
or there could change anything. I didn't want to let anything disturb me. Really the
motivation of winning the match I think kept me focused.

Q. When you say it's something you're going to work on, do you want to work on not
getting PO'd at all?

JEFF TARANGO: No. You have to say what's on your mind, but you can't get fined $73,000.
I think there's a definite in-between there. I think I've found it. I have a good balance.
I am a fired-up player; I'm an emotional player. I'm going to say what's on my mind. I'm
not a person that curses or goes nuts. I think I played very well tonight, very focused.

Q. To what degree do you think - I apologize for belaboring the point - a lot of guys
beef, and probably beef rightfully. You got a call overturned tonight. To what degree do
you think your reputation precedes you a little bit?

JEFF TARANGO: That's the thing. The crowd pays money to come out and watch the match.
They definitely got their money's worth tonight. It was an exciting match. I can't worry
about my reputation preceding me. I just go about my life day-to-day. I try my hardest on
the court every day. I'm a player. That's the way it is. I just come out every day and
play my hardest. If something happens and I give a good beef about it, you know, I think
the chair officials understand that everybody makes mistakes. I make mistakes, they make
mistakes, and we go on from there. I think tonight was very good for me, very good,
mentally focused match.

Q. You say it helps you sometimes when the crowd boos. Do you feel "I'm going to
show them"?

JEFF TARANGO: I love the crowd if they boo me every day. It fires me up, makes me play
my best tennis. I played some of my best tennis in college when fraternities were throwing
beer on me. I'm used to everything, seen it all. To me it's exciting. If tennis was like
that every day, I think everybody would be having a lot more fun.

Q. Did you have a gesture?

JEFF TARANGO: I think a little Latin blood came out of me in the end. I support their
enthusiasm. At the same time, they're cheering blatantly against me. I was going to stay
focused the entire match. As soon as I won, I can give them a little razzle-dazzle.

Q. Your opponent said coming into the match that he expected you to complain a lot,
that's part of your game. Do you think you have an effect on the minds of your opponent
both during the match and after the match because you're outspoken?

JEFF TARANGO: How old is he? I don't think he knows me very well. I can't comment on
that at all.

Q. Would you say there's an analogy between McEnroe, the way he used -- the way a
situation would help him and the way it seems to help you also?

JEFF TARANGO: If McEnroe had my forehand, he would have been a hell of a better player,
I tell you.

Q. Jeff, what did you expect going in against him from him coming toward you?

JEFF TARANGO: I knew he hit as lot of great shots, no question. He hits some fabulous
shots off of some of my best shots; he hits even better shots. One or two great shots
doesn't win a match. I wanted to make him play every point, try to make him hit great
shots the whole match. If he did, then he was too good. You know, I have some different
shots up my sleeve, too. I just want -- I never played him before, it was a challenge for
me. I had a lot of fun winning.

Q. What do you expect going to your next match?

JEFF TARANGO: I don't know. I have a problem because I never look at the draw. I don't
even know who I play. I'm sure it's the winner of two people. I'll go out and just play
them hopefully the same way I played today, just fighting for every point.

Q. I think it's the French player Arnaud Boetsch.

JEFF TARANGO: We've played a couple times. He's whacked me a couple times, greased me
out a couple times. We'll see what happens. Obviously he's ranked pretty high, so I'll say
all the pressure's on him going out there. Should be a lot of fun.

Q. Will you ask advice from Olivier?

JEFF TARANGO: I'm sure they're doubles partners, practiced together a lot. Olivier is
right-handed, I'm left-handed. It's a totally different aspect of how to play. Sure, I
mean, every little bit helps. I'm sure they're good friends also, so I don't want to
compromise that.

Q. Marcelo has been involved in a little bit of controversy this year. He's generally
conceded not to be a good guy around the locker room.

JEFF TARANGO: I've never talked to him, never had a problem with him. As far as I'm
concerned, he's a good guy until I have a problem with him or don't have a problem with
him. I think that's the way it is. I hear a lot of talk and stuff, but I think anytime
someone comes up and they're winning a lot, they're going to be a little bit, I don't know
how you say, cocky or confident in themselves. I think that's fine. It's tough for him
because he has to go out and prove it every day now. I came out today, went for it, played
better than he did, deserved to win.

Q. Was there anything surprising to you about the game he played, anything that you
expected him to either do better or worse, for that matter?

JEFF TARANGO: No. I never really seen him play before. I watch a few games on TV here
and there. I didn't know what to expect. Maybe that helped me. I just focused on my game
and how I play my best tennis. Tonight I did play very well.

Q. He only broke 110 miles an hour on serve a couple times.

JEFF TARANGO: Did I break 110?

Q. Not that often.

JEFF TARANGO: I thought we were evenly matched going out there. A couple points here or
there could change the match. A lot of people place so much emphasis on ranking. He shot
up the ladder, and not too many people have had a chance to watch him play. I played
really well tonight, I played with confidence, and he played with confidence. You know, I
won a few really big points and I think it helped me a lot.

Q. As a left-hander, do you like playing left-handers?

JEFF TARANGO: I'm not sure what my record is, but I think it's fairly good, yeah.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT