U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1995
Jeff Tarango
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Would you consider that an unfortunate draw, I mean, for the first round, a guy who
has been so hot; just kind of been playing so well lately?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I don't know. I really don't. I don't think about the player. I just
think about my quality of play. 
 
Q. What do you think of your quality of play today, Jeff?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, I haven't -- I have probably slept two hours in the last week, and
the fact that I was able to get out there and get my serve in, the security was pretty
amazing to me. I am completely exhausted, and devastated from this whole thing. And I just
-- I can barely maintain, to be honest. 
 
Q. First set went particularly badly for you. Was it just hard focusing when you went
on the court?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I just swung at the ball, and the racket wasn't even getting close to
where the ball was. That is pretty much how it felt; no coordination whatsoever. My brain
and my body were not in sync. 
 
Q. Nobody likes to lose, Jeff, but are you almost happy now that this is done or --
 
 JEFF TARANGO: No. I wanted to win the tournament. That is why I entered. 
 
Q. How much longer do you think you will keep in in your mind the whole thing with
Wimbledon and everything; how long do you think that will last for you?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: As long as I keep being persecuted -- 
 
Q. Persecuted by whom?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Excuse me? 
 
Q. Persecuted by who?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Want me to get another $60,000 fine? 
 
Q. In some way, Jeff, do you feel that you are a kind of a scapegoat in some manner, do
you?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I feel like a victim. That is probably the word I would use, you know,
that is pretty much how I feel. Used and abused. 
 
Q. In addition to the fines which were very substantial, in what other ways do you feel
abused? 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, yeah. I mean, I just think that all this is unnecessary, you know,
some people are obviously a lot more powerful than me in tennis, and, you know, that is
the way things go. So I guess, you know, hoorah for the power. 
 
Q. What are your future plans, Jeff; are you appealing all this stuff or continuing to
play?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I mean, if I want to mount $200,000 in lawyer bills, I can fight this and
probably win, but what is the point? I don't have that kind of money. 
 
Q. Jeff, you were saying you got two hours of sleep. Is that simply because of phone
calls or are you just --
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I just can't sleep. I mean, I am taking two sleeping pills every night,
and I still am not getting any sleep, so I don't know what to do. I go to the chiropractor
three times a week. He says I am so stressed out; he can't even turn my neck. I don't know
what to do, really, it's amazing to me that there is -- just the fact that there was a
tournament, it was just weird. I mean, I am spending four hours, you know, talking to my
lawyer on the phone a day and trying to collect some kind of sanity. It is just not
working. I guess I have to go back to the drawing board and hope that I can try -- I don't
know. Just go sit on the beach maybe for a couple of weeks, will probably be good. 
 
Q. Any moral to this, for your own outlook, like raising it at all; do you regret now
raising it?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Excuse me? 
 
Q. Do you regret now raising the issue as you did when you did back in Wimbledon? I
mean, supposing you had swallowed the whole thing, feel that the umpires are against you,
the world is against you, but not bring it out; would you do it differently again?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, then I guess I will be like the rest of the people, just get pushed
around all the time. 
 
Q. That is the question.
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I don't know, I don't really have an answer for that. 
 
Q. Do you think you have tugged on Superman's cape?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I don't know. I mean, I really don't know what -- I guess the Grand Slam
Committee is the only one that can decide whether things are too harsh or not. 
 
Q. Are you upset just with the ITF and the ban on the Grand Slams or what about even
the ATP and your fellow players?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, right now I am just pretty just devastated. I think that is the
only word I can use. I don't want to get into any specifics because every time I get into
specifics, I will get fined, so that is pretty much all I can say. 
 
Q. By both the ATP and the ITF?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: You can say whatever you want. I am not allowed to. 
 
Q. At Wimbledon you think the people who were supportive of you since then, has anyone
in the game -- has anyone from Stanford also...
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I think everybody that is sane sees what is going on. I think that
everybody who is inside the tennis world is maybe a bit confused. 
 
Q. But my question is, have people come forward and been supportive as well; have you
gotten...
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Yes. I would say that everybody who is sane has been pretty supportive. 
 
Q. Do you ever see this getting back to normal again, you, playing on the Tour?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I don't know, I don't know what is going to happen. I mean, I obviously
can't go out and play with this kind of mental attitude, so I probably got to decide on
whether I am going to keep playing or not. I love tennis and I have to play in my
backyard. I know Courier and Sampras and Patrick and all my friends will come and play
with me in my backyard, so I guess I can just practice and play them there. I don't really
-- I don't really see what the point is of trying to go out and prove myself, you know, if
it is not a level playing field. 
 
Q. The money, it is costing you a lot of money, but could you go out next month or next
year and just play the Tour and put this behind you or...
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I don't know. I mean, five tournaments from now, is that what you are
asking? I don't know. I mean, what can I play being suspended from five tournaments, you
tell me. They pick and choose the tournaments I can play. And then they promote me and say
I am some bad boy and everybody comes and watches and then they fine me more for things
that I don't do. I mean, I don't see what the point is. 
 
Q. Jeff, are you getting any psychological help in trying to cope with this tremendous
stress?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: So far, no. 
 
Q. Has your college coach contacted you at all; given you any support? 
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Yeah, he has given me a lot of support. We haven't talked on the phone.
He has written me a couple of letters and stuff, but I have been spending a lot of time on
the phone with all my friends and it is just like trying to get around to everybody, so it
is pretty tough. 
 
Q. What did he say, just hang in there?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: He says, you know, you are always the type of person that can bounce back
from things that happen to you pretty quickly and you are always the first one with the
smile on your face. He said, just try and get that sense of humor back as quickly as
possible because you have one of the best ones I know. It is pretty tough. 
 
Q. How is Benedicte taking all of this?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: She asked me if she -- if I wanted to her to come and watch the match
today; she said she probably couldn't do it. I asked her to come and watch the match for
me but I wanted her to be with me. So that is pretty much she came and watched. But she
said when I came off the court, she said, don't worry about it. I understand. You know,
you tried your hardest; that is all you can do. 
 
Q. Can we expect to see Jeff Tarango play anymore this year or do you think with the
suspensions...
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I don't know. You will have to ask the powers at be. I mean, I really
don't know what is in store, what is going on, and I probably have to rethink a lot of
things. 
 
Q. How many tournaments have you been suspended from by the ATP, five; is that it?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Three tournaments from the ATP and two Grand Slam events, so that is a
lot of money and that is a lot of, you know, I play singles, doubles, and mixed doubles in
those tournaments. It is a lot of money. It is probably going to be around 150,000,
$175,000 for someone that, you know, I mean, people think I make a lot of money, but I
have got $100,000 in expenses a year. I have got 40% taxes every year, so, you know, the
money goes quickly, and, you know, these people take $63,000, sure, they are making $40
million here, so it is nothing to them. But it is a lot to me and it hurts. 
 
Q. Will the second Grand Slam likely be the Australian that you will miss, do you
think?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: That is the first. 
 
Q. Wimbledon would be the other.
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Yeah. So I don't know, I mean, right now they tell me that the Grand Slam
committee will decide things -- if the administrators made the right decisions or not and
I can only hope that they look at this from an individual standpoint as opposed to -- just
as normal people; that would be nice. 
 
Q. You talked about going and sitting on the beach for a couple of weeks, Jeff, but do
you have any thoughts on how to turn this whole nightmare around and be positive --
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I really don't. The only way I can see it is that people just see it for
what it is, and, you know, I didn't go back on what I said originally and I guess I paid
the price for it, but I don't want to be a hypocrit and I don't want to be someone who
comes back and tries too glaze over something that I did or said. I am going to live with
my actions, that is the way it goes. 
 
Q. Did you expect to incur some sort of penalty, I guess, because of it?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: No, I really didn't. 
 
Q. All of it has been a shock?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Yeah. I think that if everybody looked over the facts that that would be
-- that they would probably see things the way I do. So hopefully some day everybody will.
 
 
Q. When will the ATP suspension start, right after this, or are you appealing that?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: They haven't said. No one knows at this point. 
 
Q. What would you change?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: What would I change in what? 
 
Q. From the moment you walked off the court, 'til now, what would you change?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: I don't know. I mean, Goran Ivanisevic was suspended for not going to a
press conference and I was suspended for going to a press conference and telling the
truth. So it is a really confusing situation for me. I am not sure what I am supposed to
do. There is no one here right now so I don't even know if I am supposed to be giving this
press conference. So that is why I am pretty limited in what I can say. 
 
Q. Does any thought run through your mind of just saying forget it and walking away
from tennis completely; do you think about that or is that just alien to you at this
point?
 
 JEFF TARANGO: Well, no, I can go back to school and finish and that is probably the
first thing on my agenda anyway if I wasn't playing tennis, so I don't know, I just have
to regroup and see how much I still like playing the game and how much I enjoy it and
whether it is worth it or not. Today I was swinging and nothing was connected, so I don't
know if that is going to continue or what is going to happen. It is really tough to see.
But I would like to say that I thanks to all the press who has been so fair and really
given a 50/50 perspective of this whole issue. I really appreciate it, and I don't know if
you -- if anybody will see the investigation findings or whatever, but I am sure that, you
know, with real investigators and people and a real judge, I don't know, I do not think
that the decision would have been the same, but once again, I don't have $200,000 to give
to a lawyer, to all this stuff that needs to happen, so I am kind of in a terrible
situation. Thanks. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT