MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2021
Victor Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Victor, we asked some people in November, it was kind of unusual conditions.  When you come here, does it feel completely different?  Is it real Masters?  What do you think?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Yeah, I think it's a lot more what I expected the course to be.  Watching it on TV growing up, a lot firmer, a lot faster, it's only Tuesday.  I think they have full control over what they want the golf course to be like, and it's going to be -- I think they're expecting a little bit of rain this week, and I think they're going to try to take advantage of the good couple days of sunshine to firm it up and have control of the golf course.
 Q. After the experience in Austin with the Match Play, and I saw you like talking to Sergio on the tee box this morning, I mean, playing with him and all that.  Do you feel like you really have the game to compete and do something?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Yeah, for sure.  I feel like both the last tournament at THE PLAYERS and at the Match Play gave me a lot of confidence, you know, getting some really good strong result, not just -- you know, I felt like I had some results, but not quite as strong.  So I feel like that does give me a lot of confidence.
 I think spending more time in the States as well allows me to not feel as foreign with everything, and I'm just trying to keep on riding that wave.
 Q. What advice did Sergio give you specific to this golf course?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   I mean, nothing in particular.  I think it's going to play so different than what I've expected.  Back in November, it was playing just a lot softer.  So I think it's just a matter of getting comfortable with the greens, I think getting comfortable with the angles.  Some of the tee shots are going to be playing a lot different.  I think 14, for example, is a hole that was a no-brainer of a driver for me, that even fades the ball.  I think with the fairway firming up, the landing area becomes a lot smaller.  So that was just one example that comes to mind where playing 3-wood on 14 was really a no-go back in November.  That's something that's probably going to be in play this week depending on the wind.
 So it should play a lot different, and just a matter of keeping the angles to the pins.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT