BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 10, 2020
Victor Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 70 today, and that was a really nice way to finish.  How do you reflect on how you bounced back on the back nine?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Yeah, obviously very pleased with today.  I felt like I played really crappy and didn't get anything going.  Obviously a good save on 16, and obviously eagle at the last makes the day.  My caddie was saying, JP, I was 1-over par hitting my third shot on 16, really.  So it's definitely pleasing to have a round where you definitely don't have anywhere near your average, like your best or average play and still get in under par.
 Q. You got in at the right time with the rain coming down.  How is it playing out there for you?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Personally for me it was quite challenging.  I struggled.  I didn't hit the ball well and I drove it poorly, so obviously you could get in trouble.  It was definitely scorable I felt like.  Credit to Tyrrell for shooting 3-under par and I felt like he didn't really get anything going.  He could have been easily six or seven, so he will obviously be a strong contender for tomorrow.
 Q. You were in such good form when golf had to stop with the pandemic.  How do you carry that form into what could be a big day for you tomorrow?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Obviously tomorrow you go out, you play your best and you leave it all on the course and you see where it takes you.  I was playing well when it stopped, and I've been finding some form a little bit lately.  I played quite well last week.  It's nice to see it carry over this week, but there's a lot of golf to be played obviously.
 Q. The small matter of your Masters debut, as well.  How nice to go into that on the back of a win here?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Obviously that would be the ideal scenario.  I was looking a little bit how to prepare, going into the majors and big events, you want to go in with confidence and feeling good about yourself obviously and that would definitely do it.
 Q. Second at the moment in the clubhouse.  How are you feeling?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Obviously very pleased.  I felt like I definitely didn't have my best.  To say the least, I struggled, but it's good to find a couple good swings coming in and obviously the eagle on the last is icing on the cake I would say to finish the day and puts me in good position for tomorrow.
 Q. Tomorrow is going to be a big day, but you've come in top five in not just Rolex Series Events, WGCs and you have the Alfred Dunhill under your belt.  Do you feel like when it comes down to the back nine tomorrow, you'll be ready for that?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   That's what we play for, these moments where you have an opportunity to win.  There's so much we can do and tomorrow, and somebody could go out tomorrow and shoot 9-under and we won't even sniff if.  All I can do is play as hard as I can and try to put a good score out there and see where it takes me, but I can control myself.
 Q. Missed a bit of rain but you might be pleased to know we'll have nothing but sunshine tomorrow.  How do you think the course will be under those conditions?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   If the course dries out, I doubt it will play that much different because it's not going to have that much time to dry out.  I thought the greens were a little bit quicker than in the past.  There's maybe a few less players; with the cut there are a few less guys stepping, and I think they have done a great job.  The course is in good shape.  It's still October and it has to be taken into account, but yeah, I think obviously with a little bit of drier condition, I don't know what the wind forecast is supposed to be, but it should be interesting.
 Q. There's times today when we thought one or two of the guys might pull away from the pack, and there's a lot of you very close tomorrow.  Do you have any kind what kind of number you need to be shooting?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   It's very difficult to say, because obviously you can come in -- I think if you can give yourself a chance going into the three par 5s in the last seven holes, that's all you can really ask for.  But you're going to see some swings coming down the stretch.  There's no way to attack it on this course and somebody could finish 4-3-3, birdie, birdie, eagle to finish or really come from nowhere, so it has to be foot on the gas till the end because somebody going to do it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT