SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 30, 2020
Victor Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under 65 in tricky conditions. How would you assess that?  
VICTOR PEREZ: Obviously very pleased. I think the round went quite well after kind of a rocky start. To bogey on 2 after a really good drive, missed the opportunity on the first and the third, but like I've been doing the last couple of weeks, I've been able to stay patient, weather being challenging.   
I've hit it really well. I've actually hit some really, really good shots and made a few putts. I figured out the speed of the greens at the end of the round. I was off at the start hitting them too hard, too soft. I feel like my feel got a lot better on the back nine and I was able to convert.   
 Q.  Tricky weather conditions; obviously you're pleased with 5-under?  
VICTOR PEREZ: Obviously very pleased. I felt like definitely some bonuses at the end. I got a great birdie on 17 from the waste, which obviously you don't expect, and some great save down 13, 14, where obviously you can easily drop a couple of shots. I mean, I felt like it could have easily gone to a couple of under, and it turns out to be five, so I'm obviously very pleased, but it plays difficult.   
 Q.  How good are these Desert Swing events?  
VICTOR PEREZ: Obviously very good. The combination of Abu Dhabi where the course was playing difficult, I think we were probably the most fortunate between the three as far as conditions, and then last week, just the course being very difficult and very windy on Sunday where I really struggled.   
So coming out here, obviously a lot of wind, tricky pins. The course is in great shape. It's a great test.   
 Q.  How much of an advantage is it playing in the morning to the afternoon?  
VICTOR PEREZ: I'll be able to tell you that tomorrow morning obviously. I think if you can get at least nine holes with no wind, you have to try to take advantage. I think some of the guys went out early this morning and posted some numbers.   
And I think Graeme played really well this afternoon, shot 6-under and I was second, maybe at 5-under. I think some of the guys are going to play better after, but definitely the majority of the scores were done in the morning.   
 Q.  What confidence did you take from that win at the back end of last year?  
VICTOR PEREZ: Obviously a ton of confidence, and I've been able to ride that wave quite well since the end of September. So yeah, just a lot of good stuff, and a lot of golf left.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT