ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2019
Victor Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A wonderful victory. Your first on The European Tour and it's come in a marquis event in this iconic tournament and golf course. Just describe your emotions?
VICTOR PEREZ: It's really hard to describe right now. I feel like the emotions were really high all day, and really cold, windy, long day out there. I felt like I was able to battle. Wasn't easy. Matt played amazing. I was expecting some of the guys to charge, and we were fortunate in a it was a one-on-one battle on the back nine, and was able to make that birdie on 14 that really pulled me back, and then just held strong till the end.
Q. So much can and do happen over this golf course over the last few holes. Describe what you were thinking and feeling as those last four unfolded having got into a tie for the lead?
VICTOR PEREZ: After the birdie on 14, getting tied for the lead, playing 15, I just tried to still give myself chances. You always expect these guys at this level to make birdies and you have to stay aggressive. I think when Matt hit his drive down 16, well, there you have it. This is what these guys do. They come in there and give themselves chances.
I hit a great drive to 17 that really settled me and a great iron shot that I thought hit it close. Going down the last with a one-shot lead is all you can ask for.
Q. You had Rory McIlroy's long-term caddie, JP on the bag. How valuable was he?
VICTOR PEREZ: Obviously JP knows the three courses like the back of his pocket, especially St. Andrews. It was a huge advantage for me to know where to hit it and really trust him. He said it from the get-go, "My job is to tell where you had hit it and your job is to execute," and I was able to do that today.
Q. This takes you to 20th in The Race to Dubai and Top-70 in the World Rankings. How excited about what's potentially possible now with the rest of the year?
VICTOR PEREZ: I was trying not to think about it. I turned my phone off yesterday after the third round and kept it off -- it's still off, actually. I just didn't want to start thinking. It's so easy with the magnitude of the tournament and players in the field to start thinking, oh, what if I win, what if this, what if that. Just tried to keep doing what I was doing and I knew the best thing for me was to turn my phone off, and obviously I'm delighted.
Q. How will you celebrate?
VICTOR PEREZ: I'm just 20 minutes down the street, so we might have a few drinks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT