WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2021
Victor Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Making the most of his first appearance here.  Move on to the quarterfinals.  What was the difference in the match for you against McIntyre?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   I just felt like I made a few putts early that got me up in in the match, and then I knew Bobby is a very dangerous player, he can make a lot birdies.
 Couldn't stop laughing, good attitude, vibe, the shots keep coming and he can make a lot of birdies.
 I knew that even at 3-, 4-up nothing was played.  There was a lot of holes, opportunities on the backside where he could have made birdies, and I needed to keep pressing on.  So made a few putts, which made it a lot easier.
 Q. I thought a couple big factors in your match.  One, you putted well the entire day, and, two, you got an early kind of able to dictate the match against Robert McIntyre.
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Yeah, obviously it's key if you can get off to a good start.  Did that yesterday against Sungjae and was able to do the same today:  Birdied the first, he birdied the second.  It was a good bounceback, but I birdied 3 and 4 to kind of get that early lead, 2-up.
 He missed a couple opportunities on 5 and 6 where he could have brought it back, and then I was able to hang on and make some great birdies, 9, 10, 11 to really give myself a big lead going into the last few holes.
 Q. Some of our listeners may not know you're from France but you went to the University of New Mexico.  Many people may not know, but the Lobos are really good.  I always thought if you could play UNM on a windy spring day, you can play any golf course.  You've had some really good training.
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Yeah, obviously going to New Mexico the course is playing really difficult, a little bit of altitude, balls flying, and it can get really windy in the spring.  Obviously you got to learn your way around, flight the ball.
 Obviously living in Scotland for the last three years I've learned to keep that going as well.  Yeah, hopefully I keep going the same way on the last matches.
 Q. Looks like you're going to play Sergio Garcia in the afternoon.  Thoughts?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Yeah, obviously there is no easy match from this point on.  There is no easy match anyway.  Yeah, it'll be a fun challenge.  I'm really looking forward to it.
 Q. Bon chance.
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT