ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 28, 2019
Victor Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice way to finish?
VICTOR PEREZ: It was awesome. Bit windier today. Out of all the courses, we got a bit fortunate to play here today, being a bit wider off the tee. Maybe the guys at Carnoustie would have been the tougher course today.
Played great. Hit the ball really well. Felt like I made a couple putts, but the putting really was -- I didn't make any bombs out there or anything. Missed a short one on 8. 3-putt 8 for bogey, but the rest of the ball-striking was class today and I was really pleased with obviously nine birdies again.
Q. Can you tell me about the run from the second hole?
VICTOR PEREZ: We knew that we played all the holes into the wind up to 3. 3 was a par 5 so 2 was really the last hardish hole we were going to play and I struck a perfect 4-iron in there tight and made birdie. I knew obviously I played the par 5s well and then breathing from 13 on after playing into the wind, and hitting the ball reasonably close and holing some putts which was nice.
Q. You have local knowledge of the whole area, living in Dundee. Can you tell me about how much you've played these golf courses?
VICTOR PEREZ: I've actually just played this one once on Tuesday. That was the first time I've played but I knew obviously St. Andrews from amateur golf and being around and I knew Carnoustie. I feel like it's more just being at home and comfortable and all the little things that come with it. You drive your own car and sleeping in your own bed, a huge thing when you travel around and being in hotels all the time.
I feel also the wind, just being comfortable with knowing that, okay, this is 25 yards of wind into the wind and just trusting the numbers, I think plays an advantage, and I think that's why U.K. players and born players are doing well in this weather.
Q. Teeing off tomorrow in the final group at St. Andrews, pretty special, isn't it?
VICTOR PEREZ: Yeah, that's awesome. It's definitely what we practice for. It's the Home of Golf, in the final group hopefully. What more to ask, I'd say.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT