WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2019
Victor Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us about today's round.  
VICTOR PEREZ: Obviously a really good round to finish. I think coming off yesterday was really difficult, but I was able to keep it under par and obviously come out today and have a strong performance. I think playing with Matthias was obviously great. We were just really pulling each other from the top and it kept us from looking at the board too much.   
He admitted to me on the last that whoever was going to beat each other was going to have a great result, and it was great to battle. We've played a bit of Challenge Tour together, though he got on Tour before me, but it was a lot of fun together.   
 Q.  Tied fourth in your debut, that's very impressive.  
VICTOR PEREZ: Obviously it's a very good week. I think it's not just me. Obviously I'm finishing fourth, but it's everybody around me and all the people that have helped me along the way that have allowed me to pull a very good performance like this on Sunday.   
 Q.  Extraordinary round of golf yesterday. The two people next to you making birdies left, right and center. Tell us about that, but what changed between yesterday and today?  
VICTOR PEREZ: Obviously yesterday, starting with playing with Louis and Paul, obviously they started -- they both birdied the first three and Louis birdied four and five and I told JP, I parred my first five and felt like I was getting lapped completely.   
It's all about the mind-set. If I'm playing with a couple of guys that are over par through five, and you're even par through five, you feel like you're having a good day. Obviously you can see the bottle half-full, half-empty. It's whatever you choose.   
I felt like if I keep battling along with my game, it didn't quite work yesterday, and I actually got it under par birdieing the last, which was good. I felt like it was easily a round that could have gone over par, but kept it under and kept me in the tournament, maybe not quite to finish because I felt like Rory, seems like I was cruising, three rounds of 67, felt like he wasn't leaving much for the rest of us.   
Obviously today, I felt like I got off to a better start and then you can ride a little bit off that momentum and getting those early birdies. It's one of those things where it doesn't take a lot out of you to get to 3-under. It's not like I made three 15-footers. I felt like I quickly got to 3 and it frees you up a bit because you know from there you're just trying to cruise through the end of the day.   
 Q.  When you said "chasing down Rory," how great is it to be saying that and be competitive chasing down the world No. 2, arguably the best player in the world?  
VICTOR PEREZ: Yeah, I feel like he's a setting stone for us, the way he approaches the game. He comes in here being the highest-ranked player and he played really well through three rounds. I don't know how it's going to finish up, but yeah, I'm very pleased with what I did and just makes you want to work even harder.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT