BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2020
Victor Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. 66 today.  How were conditions?
VICTOR PEREZ:   Obviously very pleased with today.  I think conditions kind of like maybe a little bit better on the front side.  You know on my front nine, the back sign, the par 5s I was able to get off to a decent start, 3-under through nine, and then obviously made a really good putt on the par 5 for eagle, which is a huge bonus and then a couple of birdies which lifts you, gives you a bit of momentum, and closed out with a good round.
Q. All of 70 feet that eagle putt.  How was the putter today?
VICTOR PEREZ:   It's okay, it's been solid inside ten feet.  Besides that putt, it's the only really putt that I've made.  The rest have been inside ten feet.  I really haven't made anything.  I feel like I've been giving them almost too much respect.  I think I've been a little shy on the outside 10, 15 feet range, so something maybe to look for on the weekend and hopefully slip in a few which are going to be needed.
Q. It looks like your game really comes alive on the big weeks, some of the Rolex Series Events.  Is there something about the bigger weeks that seem to click more?
VICTOR PEREZ:   I'm not sure, at the end of the day we are trying to prepare for those events.  They are definitely checked up earlier in the year, and not peak, but physically and mentally and from a golfing standpoint be in a better place when those events come around.
I don't know, it's hard to say because obviously it's been the case, but for how long is it -- hopefully, I wish I was playing well every week to be fair and I would rather look at it half-empty on that side, but very pleased with my first two rounds.
Q. Just one bogey today, you must be absolutely delighted.
VICTOR PEREZ:   Yeah, obviously very pleased with the round.  As I was saying, very happy with the way everything has been going.  I think I've stayed out of trouble on a fairly long, tricky course with some good pin positions.  If you can take advantage of the par 5, the course is there to be taken.  We've seen some great scores today and it's really there, there are great scores out there, but you have to be careful obviously.
Q. Is it mere coincidence that you're going so well at this time of year, bearing in mind your Dunhill victory?
VICTOR PEREZ:   I don't know, maybe.  People have been saying I've been playing well this time of the year.  I don't know if it's coincidence.  Every year so far I've been getting to a new level playing better tournaments, bigger tournaments.  I think it's taken me a couple of months through the middle of the year to adapt and get comfortable, I don't know, maybe that's what it is, but yeah, obviously pleased to play well towards the end of the.
Q. What's it going to take to win this?
VICTOR PEREZ:   I don't know, depends on the conditions.  If the wind picks up, 2-, 3-under every day might be good.  Depends on what other people do.  We don't know what the guys this afternoon are going to do.  Just going to focus on me, there's plenty on my plate, and see where that takes me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT