THE SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SOFTBANK INVESTMENT ADVISERS
February 6, 2021
Victor Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Three birdie in the first seven, but how important was patience on the back nine to close it out?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Yeah, obviously the course was a bit more challenging on the back.  There were some really good pin positions I think.  11 was tough.  12 was tough.  13 was tough.  14 was tough.  It was just hard to get close.  I think if you give yourself looks, but 20, 25 feet it's harder to make putts compared to the front where there were more back stops and the par 5 was playing downwind and hit a good shot into 3 but it feeding towards the hole.  A bit more accessible and I was able to take advantage.  Happy to have made one on 17.
 Q. Feels as though you've got the pace of these greens pretty much this week, especially over the last two days, statistically, you're one of the best putters so far.  How much confidence do you have?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Obviously that's a great thing that you tell me.  Felt like it hasn't been as good as maybe the stats have proven.  It's obviously a feel thing.  Feel like I've made a few putts short.  Made some; left some short.  This morning on 16, a bad three-putt.  Obviously give and take.
 I think obviously will need to make some putts tomorrow.  I don't know what the weather is going to be like.  But even if it's gone, somebody is going to have put a low one to win, and if it's going to be windy, it's going to be a grind coming down the stretch for sure.
 Q. What kind of performance will get this over the line tomorrow?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   It's very difficult.  Coming down 18, I thought DJ was still 13-under par and then he was down to 11, so it's really give or take.  We don't know how he's going to finish.  Obviously No. 1 player in the world, he could finish 3, 3 and finish at 14 and putt a little step in front of everyone.  It will be very dependent on conditions to be honest.
 Q. Exciting prospect tomorrow going up against the world's No. 1 player?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Yeah, obviously I think that's as good as it gets.  If the pairing ends up being that way, then great, and so be it.  I'll be very excited for the challenge.  I think this is all you strive for.  I think the Tour is doing great at having some of those great players being here and playing and giving us the chance, mostly staying in Europe the last two years, playing against those guys, it will be a great competition.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT