DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 10, 2020
Victor Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 5-under par round of 67.  What did you do particularly well today?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Well, as always on these tough courses, tough pins today, they really put up a good setup with some of the pins, three, four from the edges, some pins that -- I've only been here one year.  Chip has been here a few times and he still didn't see some of them.  It was just about holing a few good putts, driving the ball well, doing everything fairly well but obviously making a few putts, which you need those type of days.
 Q. The 14th, your first pitch didn't come off and then you took out the fairway metal and ran it up the hill.  Tell us about that one.
 VICTOR PEREZ:   Yeah, it was more about the second shot really.  It was about 285 yards from the hole and we thought about laying up but then I felt quite comfortable maybe hitting the front bunker just right.  Came up left, left the first pitch short, obviously, which I did with a 3-wood and then holed the second one, which is obviously fortunate.  I was really trying to hit the first one 15 feet long and take my medicine and came up short, so it was obviously a good bonus because I could have easily walked away with 6 and the round might not have ended up the way it did.  But very pleased, and those things happen, and we'll take them.
 Q. You mentioned the difficult pin positions.  Did that change your course management?  Did you get a little bit more aggressive and still chase them or were you a bit cautious to these dangerous pins?
 VICTOR PEREZ:   I think it depends.  In the position I'm in, I have nothing to lose.  I have everything to gain.  So for me it's really a going-for-it mentality that I have to keep for four rounds.  Obviously you still have to play proper golf and hit the right shots and sometimes take your medicine, but again, I have really nothing to lose, and it's a matter of making a lot of birdies.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT