MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 21, 2000
Jose Vizcaino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  When you came up at the last at-bat, how confident were you in light of the fact that you had had three hits already in the game? Did that make you even more confident you could come through in the last at-bat?
 
JOSE VIZCAINO: I wasn't even thinking about that.  I was hoping that Luis would get the job done.  It didn't happen, so I was really comfortable.  I was feeling pretty good at the plate tonight.  I was just happy to be able to hit that clutch hit.  
 

Q.  People remember how excited you were when the trade was made and you came to the Yankees.  You actually got an early flight and showed up in Boston.  Is this the kind of moment you had in mind at that point?
 
JOSE VIZCAINO: Not really, no.  I was thinking that I was going to be able to go to the World Series, but I didn't think I was going to be the hero in the first game.  So I was really happy there, happy tonight.  So I was on the first flight when I got traded.  So I was just  -- I talked to Brian, he told me to get to Boston as soon as possible.  I was like,  "Okay."  So I took the first flight in the morning because I was really happy to come here to the Yankees.  
 

Q.  Being an ex-teammate of Turk's, were you looking for something in particular there, knowing a little bit more about him than just an average guy?
 
JOSE VIZCAINO: Well, in that situation, bases loaded, he just wants to try to get the first pitch for a strike.  So I was just trying to hit the ball and just looking for the first pitch, a strike.  He was able to throw me that pitch, what I wanted, what I was looking for, and I was able to get the hit to leftfield.  
 

Q.  This was the longest game in World Series history as far as the time was concerned.  Is there a point when you get tired emotionally or physically in a game like this, the tension or just the length of the game?
 
JOSE VIZCAINO: I wasn't tired at all.  I was really happy that I was able to play in the first game in my first World Series.  It was a long game.  We got an opportunity before in the game, and it didn't happen.  So we were really happy that our bullpen did a great job.  Mike Stanton came out and he pitched great and he kept us in the game.  We tied that game in the ninth inning.  We knew that we were going to be able to pull it out.  I'm just really happy that we got the first one.  
 

Q.  Joe said that he was going to pinch hit for you in the ninth inning if they had needed an extra base hit to win.  I'm just wondering, in the last couple of times you came up, if you kind of were looking back just to see if Joe might pinch hit for you, or did you just know that you were going to hit in all those situations?
 
JOSE VIZCAINO: The only time I looked to the dugout was when Glendon was pitching.  I also would just look to see if he was going to pinch hit for me.  He told me to hit, so I went up there and hit.  Before that, I wasn't even looking over there.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT