TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 9, 2019
Douglas Coleman III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's been the most satisfying about the way the team's performed?  
 Douglas Coleman III: Just being consistent with each other and everybody just doing their job.   
 Q.  What do you see from the Arizona quarterback, what about their offense can pose problems for you guys?  
 Douglas Coleman III: I haven't really analyzed Arizona just yet but I know that their quarterback is a dual-threat. So I'm pretty sure he can make plays with his feet.   
 Q.  The last time this team went to Arizona -- scored eight touchdowns, how do you stop a dynamic player from wreaking havoc once again?  
 Douglas Coleman III: Just doing your job.   
 Q.  So the last two weeks, it's been big margins of victory for you guys, now getting to play Power Five team with a much more dynamic offense, are you excited for the challenge?  
 Douglas Coleman III: Yeah, I think for the secondary the past two weeks, it hasn't really been that much action because the front seven are like stopping the run. So that gives us an opportunity to make plays in the back end this week.   
 Q.  Do you find yourself playing better against a quarterback -- or one that will drop back and throw the ball?  
 Douglas Coleman III: I think I'd rather play a dual-threat. It's just a bigger challenge. I want to play the best quarterback each week.   
 Q.  Discipline is going to be the key. For you, is it eye discipline, not coming up when he breaks the pocket for you?  
 Douglas Coleman III: Main thing in the back end is just having your eyes, just doing the right thing, the right keys all the time.   
 Q.  What are the things you'll try to work on this week?  
 Douglas Coleman III: Probably my eye discipline in the post, instead of like taking underneath routes and just I guess jumping a route before he actually throws the ball.   
 Q.  Who was the best, in the back room --  
 Douglas Coleman III: I did -- like a 97.   
 Q.  Were you overall pleased with your performance? Was that the best game you've played so far?  
 Douglas Coleman III: I don't think so. I feel like I left things on the table, I mean, like as in coverage-wise, I was sound and my expect -- I need to make more plays.   
 Q.  You said how impressive the front seven has been. What, for you, when you watch on tape -- what have you been most impressed about their performance?  
 Douglas Coleman III: The way they close space, it's like they know the play before it's even ran and like they don't give us a chance to make an attack -- I guess that's good.   
 Q.  Getting used to working on the defensive side -- how much slower is the game action because of that that you're used to going a hundred miles an hour in practice and in the game and things have slowed down considerably?  
 Douglas Coleman III: It's a big difference. Like I guess because it's not Big 12 Conference yet, but the offense are going a whole lot slower and it's like, I guess it's just easier on us to allow us to identify formations.   
 Q.  Can you speak to what Zach's been able to do just in terms of?  
 Douglas Coleman III: Zach has made great improvements coming from Penn State, and quick transition, and I think he stepped up pretty well.   
 Q.  How does Adrian complement you in the secondary?  
 Douglas Coleman III: I know I can just leave himself over there by himself and he knows what to do and he can handle it on his own so I can worry about helping his back side corner, instead of trying to help him in the post.   
 Q.  What were the last couple possessions like for you as a unit trying to get the shutout? Coach mentioned maybe they were coaching you guys a little harder to try to keep them at zero.  
 Douglas Coleman III: I mean, I understand about the shutout, but at the same time we need to have experience the twos had to go?   
 Q.  How frustrating to get that turnover, but get that Pick-Six and call it back?  
 Douglas Coleman III: It was very frustrating because that would have been my first actual turnover of the year. We've just got to stay patient and know that they are coming.   
 Q.  What does --  
 Douglas Coleman III: He's a very aggressive safety. I know he can stop the run at any moment. That's what he brings.   
 Q.  Coach wells talked about the fact that you guys were 4/30 when it comes to allowing offenses to convert third down. What do you think the biggest reason for your third down success is? Is it a specific position group or overall effort?  
 Douglas Coleman III: Well, we often go into nickel but at the same time we look at third down as our money down, so I guess our focus and our intensity just ups when it gets on third down because we normally have to get off the field.   
 Q.  Seeing somebody like Dalton come in, walk-on and to be able to watch his evolution as a player and score his first touchdown of his career on Saturday. What do you like about having him as a teammates?  
 Douglas Coleman III: It's exciting to see how hard he works. He makes plays in practice all the time. To see him finally showcase his speed for everyone, it's amazing.   
 Q.  What mentality do you think you have to have going on the road to play another Power Five team for the first time?  
 Douglas Coleman III: I think we just have to stay disciplined and stay with the game plan that the coaches provide us.   
 Q.  Since you will be in somebody else's stadium, how has your communication been so far, just being able to hear each other, not have busts?  
 Douglas Coleman III: It's been pretty well. Everyone knows what everyone else has to do. If someone doesn't know, like the way we communicate across the field, it allows that person to catch up to what we are about to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT