GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 22, 2017
Omri Casspi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Welcome to the Bay Area.  Can you reflect back on that game two years ago when you went to Oracle and you got in a shooting contest with Steph and I think you ended up with nine 3s that night?  And what do you see as your role with these guys now?
OMRI CASSPI: That night was special, obviously.  Doesn't happen often that you have the best shooter in the world going right back at you.
But just in general, I'm really excited to be part of this.  And when the Warriors called me in the summer and we started talking, I made it very clear from the beginning that I'm excited for the opportunity to be a part of this.
And it's more than money to me, and it's more about being in the right situation and playing with those guys and these guys.  And this organization will be great.
So I'm really excited.  About roles, I'll do whatever it takes.  I can play the three and the four, obviously, and I think mostly will play the four.  It is what it is.  I'm looking forward to doing whatever the team needs me to do.
Obviously play my game and play my role.  I'm not trying to be anything new now.  I know what I need to do in order to bring myself the best out of myself, and I'm looking forward for the opportunity to play in Oracle and in front of our great fans.
Q. You played a lot with DeMarcus Cousins and you were also in the trade with him to New Orleans.  What's it been like playing with him?  And what do you think he needs to do to get to that next level of success in the league?
OMRI CASSPI: It was great playing with him.  We spent four, five years together.  I was there in his rookie year and then we came back.
In order for him -- it's just about winning now.  He's in a position that they have a real chance to win and to be competitive, him and AD together and the team they built in New Orleans.
I feel like DeMarcus has all the tools to become if not one of the best in the world.  And he's obviously proven that as an individual.  But now he has opportunity to win and put himself on the big stage and win.
Q. Do you think that the way that the media sees him maybe the larger NBA fan community is different than what you've seen in your personal interactions with him?
OMRI CASSPI: Oh, absolutely.  One of the guys that with the biggest heart I ever played with.  Obviously you guys know we've been really close.  But sometimes his demeanor on the court, he's so competitive, he wants to win so bad, it comes out negatively by the media.  But he definitely has a real chance to win now and I'm happy for him.
Q. Can you walk us through just sort of the end of last year with the injury and how ill-timed that was and how you sort of how you came through that?
OMRI CASSPI: It was tough.  I had a tough year.  Playing for George the year before that and going into last year, getting traded, breaking my thumb in the first game, being sick for many games, it was just a weird year.
But I always kept my faith and my composure and my confidence in playing the game the right way and playing the game.  And everything happens for a reason.  I always tell that to myself:  Everything always happens for the reason.  And I'm now with the Warriors, hopefully competing for playoff and championship.
So I always kept my confidence that things will turn around and for the better.  But obviously it was a tough year for me and I'm looking for the rebound from that year.
Q. Spoke to Steve a little bit earlier, and he said that having only a few extra parts on this team compared to last year's roster is going to make this team better.  What are you expecting from this training camp as one of those new pieces that this team's added?
OMRI CASSPI: What I'm looking forward to is get to know the guys and compete and play.  Obviously playing against the Warriors for years now, I'm pretty familiar with their sets and what they run and how they run things.  And the fact that they have what's called freedom on the offensive end will help me to adjust much better.
It's pretty similar to the system -- not completely similar, but similar to where we ran with George in Sacramento, and I feel like I have the ability to run and get good shots and do what I need to do.
So I'm really excited.  It's a dream come true to play in that system and play with these guys and to be a part of this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT