PURDUE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 30, 2016
Darrell Hazell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Welcome to week one of 2016 Purdue football.  We'll open it up with questions for Coach Hazell.   
 Q.  The first question is, Eastern Kentucky has a new coach.  Analyzing them, any type of sense on what kind of offense and defense they'll run?  
COACH HAZELL: Head coach has come from Tennessee.  He was a special teams guy there.  Studying Tennessee special teams.  The offensive coordinator came from Coffeeville.  We're studying them.  Defensive coordinator was at Michigan a few years ago.  That's the kind of team we're studying.   
These first new games, new staff, you have to make sure you do a good job the first couple series.  We watched a lot of film, watched their old film for personnel.  We watched the three situations I just spoke on to see what kind of schemes.  You really don't know until you play the first couple series.   
 Q.  When you look at the depth and talent they have at quarterback, transfer from Missouri, guy returning for over 3,000 yards, what kind of concerns did that present?  
COACH HAZELL: A guy that played a lot of football for them last year.  He throws it pretty well.  You see the other guy that's transferred in from Missouri, who is a really good competitor, plays extremely well with the ball, pulls it down.  Those are things you that you note of as you prepare for these two quarterbacks.   
 Q.  When you look at Bentley, I'm sure he's fully healthy, ready to go, what are you looking for from him?  
COACH HAZELL: He's going to have a great game for us.  He's had a phenomenal camp, stayed healthy.  Playing much faster now.  His weight is still good, 248, 249 right now.  Very physical.   
Leadership quality is unmatched to anybody on our football team.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on two-way players?  I don't think you have a guy going two ways this year.  Maybe you do.  Overall what are your thoughts on having guys go both ways?  
COACH HAZELL: I think it's very demanding at this level.  Better be a position (indiscernible) one of those skilled positions, where you don't have to be involved in every play.  It's impossible for the interior guys to play (indiscernible).  We're asking so much of those guys on each and every play, at some point in time (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Have you had a guy both ways?  If so, anybody who really made an impact?  
COACH HAZELL: I have not had a guy that's gone both ways.   
 Q.  You were asked about their personnel, their style.  You have your guys come in and watch Tennessee film, Missouri film, or do you verbally and schematically coach them up?  
COACH HAZELL: You have to watch the film, study your opponent, what you think you're going to see.  You watch Eastern Kentucky last year to point out those returning guys they have.  I think you also have to see teams for what we think they're going to be on Saturday afternoon.  You have to show them so we can adjust accordingly.   
 Q.  From a defensive standpoint, young guys, especially in the secondary.  They're going to have two quarterbacks they can play.  
COACH HAZELL: Because of what we do on the outside, I think those guys, the safeties obviously have a little bit more to figure out.  These young corners shouldn't have any issues getting lined up.   
 Q.  You talked on Media Day about how you thought wide receiver and linebacker were a strong group.  Has any other group since that time elevated itself?  
COACH HAZELL: I think the group to me that's most impressive, not the deepest, but most impressive, (indiscernible).  I think those guys are really good.  To me that group has kind of elevated.  We knew we had Jake, thought we had Evan.  Austin has come a long ways.   
 Q.  Back to questions about the quarterbacks.  How are the two of them different and what are the challenges to preparing?  
COACH HAZELL: When you study back (indiscernible), he is a true competitor.  He pulls it down, physical with the ball.  (Indiscernible.)  Has played in some very large football games.  That's what you're getting when you play against them.   
The other guy looks comfortable playing the ball.  He's not the runner like the other guy is, but looks comfortable with the ball.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
COACH HAZELL: No, not at all.  Actually it has to do with the personnel of the other people, not the quarterback.  Being able to match personnel with personnel, not get them mismatched.  It really has nothing to do with the quarterback.   
 Q.  What about the guys, Eddy Wilson?  
COACH HAZELL: Eddy is fine.   
 Q.  What about Hunte?  
COACH HAZELL: Da'Wan is still a little gimpy.  We'll figure out how much he can do today and take it day by day.   
 Q.  Looking at Kirk, how confident are you with him going into this game?  
COACH HAZELL: I'm extremely confident.  I think he's far beyond what I thought he could do this early.  He's tall, physical, flexible.  Unbelievable competitor.  So I'm really confident.   
 Q.  Obviously you don't know what to expect from Eastern Kentucky because of the new staff.  When the head coach was a special teams coach, too...  
COACH HAZELL: I told our team, to have a special teams guy -- head coach as a special teams guy, you're going to have to be aware of all those special teams gadget fakes.  Better be on high alert, on-side kicks.   
 Q.  What was your message to the team Sunday night?  Last season going into the first game you talked about the eggs in the basket, symbolized that's what you did.  Was there a theme going into this one?  
COACH HAZELL: It's about us.  That's what this first game is about.  Our execution, our intensity level.   
 Q.  Do you want to be able to establish identity on both sides of the ball?  Right now what is it on offense and defense?  
COACH HAZELL: I think our efficiency on offense, being able to hit the big plays, being able to turn around and hand it to No. 8.  I think the more and more we can put pressure on offenses with an extra body (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Are there specific points of emphasis this week you really want to see on Saturday?  
COACH HAZELL: Not particularly.  Obviously you play within the game plan.  I met with both the offensive and defensive staff last night, talked about (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Where do you feel good right now about your team?  
COACH HAZELL: Everywhere.  There's not a situation on my team that I'm concerned about.  No positions, no attitudes, no work ethics, where their minds are.   
 Q.  That's good.  
COACH HAZELL: That is very good.   
 Q.  Alex Criddle was on the two-deep.  We saw him last week when Wilson went out.  Got some of those snaps.  Is he going to get snaps for you on Saturday, do you anticipate?  
COACH HAZELL: Absolutely.  Some of those other guys.  Probably see Lorenzo out there as well.  Those young guys, this he bring some power, create running lanes.  They're still learning (indiscernible).   
What they do have is physical capabilities of holding the point.  One is 300 pounds, one is 325, 330 pounds.  Those are big bodies inside (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Any plans to rotate on the offensive line this week?  McCann is going to start for you at right tackle?  
COACH HAZELL: He is, yeah.  You'll see Jalen at some point in time perhaps.  The other guy that's played really well throughout camp is Mike Mendez.  Wouldn't mind getting him a few series early.  Those are probably or top (indiscernible).   
 Q.  You talked about Eddy and Da'Wan.  Where is Tim Faison right now?  
COACH HAZELL: Whether we play him or not, he hasn't practiced, so probably won't play him.  But he is good to play.   
 Q.  Is there anyone out?  
COACH HAZELL: Dawson is the on one.   
 Q.  Is his a hamstring?  
COACH HAZELL: (Indiscernible).   
 Q.  Mosley is a guy who obviously impressed you to put him potentially as a starter.  For a young guy to come in and put his head down and do work, is that uncommon or that generally impresses people because he didn't have an ego when he came in?  
COACH HAZELL: Robert Gregory (indiscernible).  He's a very athletic guy.  He has football savvy beyond his years.  He has the ability to (indiscernible).  That's why he's out there.   
 Q.  He sees himself as a defensive back, not necessarily a safety.  Have you seen that?  
COACH HAZELL: Well, he's certainly a guy that can play on the outside I think because he's one of the faster guys on our football team.  They all (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Do you know how many freshmen you are going to dress?  
COACH HAZELL: We did that this morning.  I don't know what the count is.  Probably 12 or 15 guys we did not dress.   
 Q.  What is the uniform combination for Saturday?  
COACH HAZELL: I think we're going to be in a traditional uniform, gold helmet.  We'll be in gold helmets, I promise you that.   
 Q.  On the depth chart it mentioned as the runningback Fuller or Johnson.  What is it about those two guys that they would potentially be at that spot?  
COACH HAZELL: I think they've done a nice job figuring out protection.  Obviously length with Johnson.  Home run hitter for us.  Still catching up.  (Indiscernible) really physical with the ball in his hands.  Those guys are going to be good players.   
 Q.  Back to the two quarterbacks.  What do you see as the common denominator that you guys are going to have to do well regardless of which one plays?  
COACH HAZELL: Schematically from an offensive perspective, I think both of them (indiscernible) throughout the course of the day.  I think you're going to see a lot of bubble throws, quick throws getting it out of their hands, then we have to go and run and tackle the bubble, (indiscernible) guy takes off down the field.   
Try to put yourselves in their perspective, how would you attack us.  Those are the things that (indiscernible).   
 Q.  What advancements did you see from Domonique Young compared to this time last year, especially from a mental standpoint?  
COACH HAZELL: He's very confident right now.  He's a big, strong guy that runs, really physical with the ball, or without the ball, really physical.  He's playing with so much more confidence right now than he was at this time last year.  Even of the first two-thirds of the season (indiscernible).  Need to get him off to a good start.   
 Q.  This is the last FBS opponent unless they change the way the rules go.  Do you like having these games on the schedule for Purdue or for college football in general?  
COACH HAZELL: I think when you start to talk about the national picture, (indiscernible) conference games.  Having those discussions, tiebreaker, (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Cameron, had some issues early on.  Has come back to the point where he's getting recognized for his off-field accomplishments.  
COACH HAZELL: Off-field accomplishments, meaning?   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
COACH HAZELL: He's done a great job.  He's done a good job, in my opinion, (indiscernible).  That's a point of emphasis we talked about with him in the off-season.  He's been our third-down guy.   
 Q.  To stick with receivers, who is your sixth receiver?  
COACH HAZELL: Anthony Mahoungou, who is going to be a backup.  Burgess is a backup.  (Indiscernible) can play a lot of different positions.  That's eight, right?   
 Q.  You mentioned freshmen earlier.  You mentioned a few interior linemen.  Anybody else you think might get out there as a freshman?  
COACH HAZELL: At linebacker, Josh Hayes is a guy that should probably be out there pretty quickly.   
 Q.  Special teams or end?  
COACH HAZELL: (Indiscernible).   
 Q.  What have you liked about him at camp?  
COACH HAZELL: One of those guys that competes at the highest level.  He's athletic enough that he's really good for us.  Just like where he is, how comfortable he is.  Doesn't look like a freshman out there.   
 Q.  You think he's somebody that's coming on for you a little bit?  
COACH HAZELL: (Indiscernible).  Hopefully he continues to grow as a player mentally and (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Do you consider yourself an experienced team?  
COACH HAZELL: It feels mature, it feels good to me at the right places.  David hasn't had a whole lot of stuff.  He feels old to me, which is good, having your quarterback feeling good.  He's in a very good place.   
We have such a blend of old guys with young guys, it's hard to characterize whether they're old or they're young.  But we feel old, and that's a good thing.   
 Q.  On defense especially you have a number of guys who will be making their first starts on Saturday.  What do you make of that?  Are you more encouraged by that or apprehensive that you have guys that are inexperienced on that side?  
COACH HAZELL: Markus Bailey, Eddy, those guys (indiscernible) on the field.  I don't worry about those guys.  Those guys are good players, played in the past.  That doesn't bore me at all.   
 Q.  How about a Myles Norwood, made the switch, now he's going to be out there?  How comfortable are you with him?  
COACH HAZELL: Myles was one of our best special teams players last year covering kicks.  He has experience.  Played at a fast pace.   
You're going to give (indiscernible) potentially.  That's going to happen to anybody.  But I don't worry about him out there feeling comfortable.   
 Q.  What do you like about what Austin Larkin has brought you?  He's going to play a lot on Saturday.  
COACH HAZELL: He's got a big motor.  What coach has done with him.  (Indiscernible) offensive lineman.  He continues to close on the quarterback, he'll put a lot of pressure on (indiscernible).   
 Q.  I'm guessing Brandon Roberts is considered a veteran even though I think he started three games, will be at a different position for you now.  Do you consider him a guy that is maybe experienced beyond what's numbers say?  What do you like about him in that position?  
COACH HAZELL: Well, he's fast.  Played in the nickel spot for us.  But he's also a guy that's playing with a lot of confidence.  I wasn't sure.  He's been out there, he understands the defense, able to make those plays that we need.   
 Q.  On offense there's a couple of guys in that category.  McCann being one.  Are you comfortable where he's at?  
COACH HAZELL: Yeah, I am.  Obviously at times we'll have to give him (indiscernible).  But I'm very comfortable with his ability to just stay on his feet and redirect his hips.  It's uncommon for a young guy.  That's what makes him special.  I think he has to learn to punch a little bit better, take away the edge a little bit better.  Some of the other things he's doing right now (indiscernible).   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
COACH HAZELL: Flexibility, his length, his quickness.  He's got the whole package.  The only thing he doesn't have is the (indiscernible).  He's a really good player.   
 Q.  What are the benefits of playing FBS?  
COACH HAZELL: I think every team you play you have to be ready for.  I don't know if benefits or not benefits.  You got to be prepared to play (indiscernible).   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
COACH HAZELL: Huge.  Validates a lot of the things these guys have done over the last three and a half years, not over the last eight months.  All of a sudden he (indiscernible) gets on a roll.  All the guys feel like the time and energy invested over the last years are coming to fruition.   
I'm looking forward to it.  Anxious to see our football team play.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
COACH HAZELL: I haven't spoken to Danny after he was released by the Colts.  (Indiscernible) hopefully he'll continue playing in the NFL.  I hope he doesn't give up too quickly because he'll always have an opportunity to do great things.   
 Q.  How is Markell working with the first team this year?  
COACH HAZELL: Markell took the spot over pretty quickly last year.  He's very comfortable.  You never have to worry about Markell's confidence.  He's a very confident.  I'm looking forward to (indiscernible).   
 Q.  How good are guys looking for Saturday?  
COACH HAZELL: We started our meeting on Sunday night.  Went out and ran around, threw the ball around a little bit Sunday night.  They are like everybody else, they are so ready to go and get this thing rolling because they know they have a good football team.  When you have a good team, you want to be out there playing and prove it.   
 Q.  Who is kicking off?  
COACH HAZELL: J.D. is going to kick off.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you for your time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT