NCAA MEN'S FROZEN FOUR
April 11, 2019
David Carle
Colin Staub
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Massacusetts-4, Denver-3, OT   
THE MODERATOR: We'll begin with some opening thoughts from Coach Carle.   
DAVID CARLE: Loved the resiliency, to stick with it.  I don't think we got down on ourselves.  We didn't.  Stuck with our game plan in the second and third.  Really proud of our effort to be able to fight back, get it to overtime.   
Really proud of our team for everything they've done all year long.  The adversity we faced, we faced it head on, got through it together.  Very proud of the two young men sitting next to me.  I think they're everything that is great about Denver hockey.  They have left this place better than they found it.  They're Pioneers in the true definition of the word, everything we try to do here.  I feel awful for them.   
But they've raised the standard and the bar here to a level of greatness.  Just so very proud of both of them.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players.   
 Q.  What were you thinking when Cole scored both of those goals in the third period to send it into overtime?  
COLIN STAUB: We thought we were winning the game.  We thought we battled back.  We were resilient.  There was no doubt in our minds going into the overtime that we were going to win that game.   
 Q.  Colin, this team has been through a lot of adversity throughout the season.  You said you expected to win.  Was there ever any kind of panic on the bench down 3-1 in the first period?  
COLIN STAUB: No, there was no panic.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.  We'll continue with questions for Coach Carle.   
 Q.  Can you comment on the importance of special teams in terms of digging a hole, not being able to take more advantage of the major penalties, capitalize on the third period power plays as well?  
DAVID CARLE: They executed, they made finishing plays on their power play.  We didn't.  We made one.  But I thought our power play gave us life and momentum all night.  It's one of the best nights our power play has been in a long time.  We generated 16 shots on the power play.  Very happy with it.  Credit to their goaltender for making the stops.   
 Q.  For as well as your goalie played in the regionals, did you have to rebuild him at all after that first period?  
DAVID CARLE: They scored three power play goals, two of them were beautiful.  They made real nice plays.  Didn't think Filip had much of a chance on them.  Certainly I thought he settled into the game.  Part of our message between the first and the second was that we knew Filip was going to shut the door, keep them at three.  We needed to do our job and get it tied back up.  We did that, gave ourselves a chance.   
I really like how he responded after giving up those three goals.  It's not easy for a freshman on this level to do that.  Says a lot to who he is as a person and as a player.   
 Q.  How much of your team's experience helped you get through the third period into the overtime?  
DAVID CARLE: Yeah, I think like Colin said, there was a belief that we were winning the hockey game.  I don't think anyone doubted that we weren't going to win the game.   
I loved how we pushed in the third.  It was an incredible effort by everybody that was going.  Thought we had 'em.   
 Q.  After the three game misconducts, looked like there was a play in the third period with head contact.  Did you ask for the officials to take a look at that or any explanation why there wasn't a call?  
DAVID CARLE: Yeah, I asked them to take a look at it.  I was asked if I wanted to use my challenge.  I chose not to.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT