OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 22, 2004
Ting Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. China's first medal, gold as it happens, in tennis at the Olympics. How do both of you feel? 
 
 TIAN TIAN SUN: It is unbelievable that we have this gold medal, and it's not easy, as well. And is a great honor for us to have the first gold medal for the Olympic Games in tennis, thank you.  
 
Q. When you beat Venus Williams and Chanda Rubin in the first round, did you think you could go all the way and win a gold medal? 
 
 TING LI: We didn't expect that we can get the gold medal because we know they are excellent players in the world, and also they are extremely good. We just did our best. Of course, in the end, if we can concentrate on what you're doing, you would get it. We didn't think too much about whether we could get it or not, just concentrate on what we were doing, thank you.  
 
Q. For each of the players. At what age did you play your first tennis match? How old were you when you first play your first tennis match? 
 
 THE INTERPRETER: Is the question to start to go for the competition or play tennis together?  
 
Q. Each of them, at what age did they first play tennis? 
 
 TIAN TIAN SUN: 12 years old.  
 TING LI: One (laughter). 10 years old.  
 TIAN TIAN SUN: 10 I play competition.  
 THE INTERPRETER: Li is from 10 and Sun Tian Tian is from 12.  
 
Q. Last year at the Heineken Open in Shanghai, it was the first time two Chinese men reached the final of the doubles. This year Zheng did well in Paris. Chinese players did well at Wimbledon. What do you think this result will do for tennis in China? 
 
 TING LI: We are all four represent the level of the Chinese tennis. However, it doesn't means we are always on the top. We need to work extremely hard to be in the top level. So we hope that we can get more support from all parts in order to have more chances to be participate into the race and the games in the world level. So this is what we are hoping to have for the future. And although we have the gold medals here, and it doesn't means we are always being the top. We need to work hard and is a new start point for the future. Thank you.  
 
Q. Four years' time, Beijing. When do you start looking to that? 
 
 TIAN TIAN SUN: From now on. We are ready for it. And we are confident we will be better by that time.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT