WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2015
Kimiko Date Krumm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 KRUMM‑SCHIAVONE/Ignacik‑Klepac
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It's 19 years since you reached the semifinals here at Wimbledon, and today you have won in the first round of the doubles.   How does that make you feel?  
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   This year I don't play singles.   I lost during the quallies, so I'm a little bit disappointed I cannot play in the Championships court.  
But still, I'm in doubles and enjoy and still in main draw.   Finally I have no more pain in my body, because since January I had many problem, a little bit sick.   I have a problem in my elbow, shoulder, hip, everywhere.  
So many months ‑ January, February, March, April, May, almost five months ‑ I was not practice 100%, not 100% and not enough training, also.   So I was mentally also that's tough because I cannot enjoy tennis.  
And then finally now I'm very, very happy even I have no singles because I don't need to worry about my body.   Because my ranking dropped to 200, so if I have‑‑ I try to get more higher level one more time and I'm happy.     So still, I'm okay.  
   
 Q.   Obviously I watched you play qualifying last week, and qualifying is very tough, and where your ranking is, you now have to play qualifying to get into the Grand Slams.   Are you happy at your age to keep playing qualifying and to keep going for now?  
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Oh, few years ago I was thinking if I go to qualifying in Grand Slam, maybe my motivate difficult to keep.   But this year I played Roland Garros and here for qually, but I'm still okay.   Yeah.   
Because the main draw and in qualified, of course each conditions are different, especially on the grass.   But if I have motivate I'm okay.   So I need to focus on my body for most important, and if my body is okay, maybe it's my mental also.   So it's okay.   
   
 Q.   Next round you're perhaps to meet up with Martina Hingis.   How does it feel to meet a player you know such a long time?  
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yeah, when I saw the draw, ah, I need to beat first round and then I can play with Hingis.   
Yeah, of course they are No. 1 seed.   No. 1/No. 2 ranking.   It's going to be interesting to play together.   Hingis also has come back two times, three times, I don't know (smiling).   
But age is a big difference even she come back.   Yeah.   I play Championships in Madison Square Garden.   It was my last match against Martina.   So it's gonna be interesting for me, also (smiling).   
She was 16 I think at that time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT