WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2012
Kimiko Date Krumm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. BONDARENKO/K. Date‑Krumm
  5‑7, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about how the match went today?  
KAMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   I was injury my left calf when I played in Roland Garros.   Then today I had still problem, so I couldn't move a little bit not quickly, not wider.   So three days ago I was almost not playing here.  
So I decide ‑‑I went to check my calf in echo, and then doctor said, Don't play.   And physio also said, Don't play.   It's too much risk, especially my age.  
But Wimbledon is my favorite tournament.   And then also I don't know how many years I can play.   I don't know my next year or two years later.   Every year is almost last year for me.   
So I don't want to give up, so I take risk.   Also, I don't play Olympics, so I have a little bit break after Wimbledon.  
I take risk, and in two days it was getting better.   I don't really know so much pain in my calf today, but of course if I move quickly, it was one more time I pull the muscle, so dangerous.   So I don't want to 100% take risk.   So I save my energy and then don't move.  
Yeah, of course it was a very disappointed.   I was not very ‑‑I was not bad today, my tennis, but body cannot move.   So yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel this could be your last Wimbledon?   Do you feel you can carry on much longer?  
KAMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yeah, if I don't injure it, of course.   I know other player don't like my ball, and it is works, my ball on the grass.   So, yeah.   Very difficult, but not easy, but, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel the doctor saying that you perhaps shouldn't play, do you feel in hindsight that you made the right decision to play?  
KAMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yeah, of course.   Always doctor saying, don't take risk, but player doesn't want to give up all the time.  
So, yeah, I don't get more injury, so I think it's right decision, myself, yes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT