WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2014
Kimiko Date Krumm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. MAKAROVA/K. Date‑Krumm
  3‑6, 6‑4, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Hard luck.   Do you think it was perhaps the physical condition at the end which maybe put that in her favor?  
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Of course I was tired and she's very, very tough player.   In the end when games going to very close, of course I feel more tired.  
But point was I think not physically.   I think I mistake the forehand volley I think in the third set 2‑Love up.   I had game point.   
Then it's going to change the game.   If I finish this ball, it's going to be I don't need to run so much.   So I think reason was not physically, was my forehand volley.   
   
 Q.   You sat down in the line judge's chair.   How tired were you after that?   
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yeah, of course if I do‑‑ if I need to do the long rally with her, of course she has good stroke level, and then of course it's going to be tired for me.  
So the last one was very, very hard.   Yeah, I saw the chair, so I need to break a little bit as soon as possible.  
But, yeah, she's ready to do next point, so I was so tired.   But, yeah, I need to a little bit break that point, yeah.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Obviously the crowd are I think full admiration that you're still competing at the age 43, 25 years after you first played here at Wimbledon.   How many more years do you think you can play?   
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   I don't know.   Most difficult question for me.   Every year when I play here, maybe I don't come back next year.  
But already I come back I don't know how many times.   Five times?   Six times?   So it's very difficult.  
Then today I play not so bad.   She's top 20 and she is tough player, big fighter.   If I lose 1 and 1 or 1 and 2 or something like that then I need to give up.  
But still I beat almost, and then physical level also still not bad for 43 years old.  
Of course if my ranking drop to 150 or 200, of course it's no chance.   But still fighting myself and then still most important is still enjoying to play myself.  
If I have chance to come back next year, I'm here.   Maybe.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT