VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 14, 1994
Kimiko Date Krumm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Kimiko, this has really been a big year for you, especially being ranked high at the U.S. Open and coming here for the first time.  To what do you attribute your playing so well this year; and has this been a personal goal coming here to the championships? 

KIMIKO DATE:  Yes, I have been playing very well this year, from January, I won Sidney and I became -- but at the French Open I lost first round, so, I was so disappointed at the time, so, however, from U.S. Open, I've been playing very well and then this tournament very well, I played very well and I hope I'll do my best 


Q.  But the question that she asked is to come here, you have to really move up; has it been a goal of hers to get to here to this tournament? What does it mean to her to come here and qualify? 

KIMIKO DATE:   I cannot even believe that this is -- this is the tournament that I dream about, so that's why I really want to try to do my best. 


Q.  Why does she think she's playing better; what's accounted for it.  You've told us the stages at which she's been playing well, but why has she risen so much. 

INTERPRETER: This year? 


Q.  Yes. 

KIMIKO DATE:   I gained the confidence because continuously I won much and then I gain my confidence gradually, that's the reason why I think I became very good. 


Q.  Anything in the tennis, any change in serve or added shots? 

KIMIKO DATE:   Nothing. 


Q.  Did she ever play left handed before? 

KIMIKO DATE:   I never played it seriously, but when I was child, I play it, like, just playing, and she was told by her coach when she was a child that there is both left handed and right handed player in history, so, she could be the one, like, left handed person.  Then, she just -- not seriously, but she practiced, hit the ball by left hand with wall, hundred times. 


Q.  How well did she think she was playing today? 

KIMIKO DATE:   This is the first time for me to play this surface and also this Madison Square Garden, so I really wanted to get used to the atmosphere and the surface today, and so, I didn't expect too much to myself, so, that -- that's the reason why maybe I was not really nervous. 


Q.  Kimiko, you were down a break in the first set and you ran off the last ten games in the match to win it, I thought you really moved well, and covered the court well; what did you think the key to winning the last ten games of the match were? 

KIMIKO DATE:   I don't think there is a particular reason, but, first break was kind of lucky to me.  Then, after I broke her serve, I felt like -- I'm sorry, I thought to myself, that I could break her serve at the first game, so I would be able to break her serve again.  So I just keep doing it and thinking it encourage myself to be able to break her serve.  Do you understand? 


Q.  Kind of.  Yes. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT