U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1994
Kimiko Date Krumm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I noticed that many times she would toss the ball and then catch it because of the
wind and how were you adjusting? 

THE INTERPRETER: She said that it was because of wind and she tried to-- I don't know
how to say it, analyze it. 

Q. Adjust it? 

THE INTERPRETER: Yeah, she tried to adjust it, but she couldn't toss as well as. 

Q. Because of that was she tossing less high or changing her toss at all, otherwise? 

THE INTERPRETER: The wind was -- from the stadium to the center direction, so it was--
she said that she tried to calculate that when she toss it. 

Q. Did she get nervous? Was she nervous at the end of the match; what was it like at
the end of the match? 

THE INTERPRETER: Yes, because at first she won the first game -- well, she won like
three games, it was 3-Love, then she start losing her control, meaning like she start
playing bad, so she got nervous when that happened. 

Q. She was up 3-Love in the second; wasn't she? 

THE INTERPRETER: Oh, yeah, it was in the second. 

Q. Meskhi has done quite well here in previous years and upset some good players. What
was the most difficult thing about the way Meskhi was playing today? 

THE INTERPRETER: She played against Meskhi many times before. She played against her in
Canadian Open as well in the first round. So she knew that it was going to be a very hard
game to play. 

Q. Is there anything that Meskhi does that is difficult to play against her? 

THE INTERPRETER: She is really calm. She always stays calm, so it is really hard to
play. And she doesn't really make unforced errors. Because and all of her plays are very
steady. 

Q. Are you surprised that you are 6th in the world or 5 in the world up with names like
Graf, and do you get this question all the time? 

THE INTERPRETER: She said that she didn't think -- at first, she didn't think that she
was going to be No. 6 or No. 5 in the world, but that is the reality, and she said that
she doesn't really have -- too much time to think about it right now. 

Q. When did she first think she was going to be? 

THE INTERPRETER: Meaning, how far she would get? 

Q. Yeah, I mean, if she doesn't think she would be five or six in the world, did she --


THE INTERPRETER: For her -- her final goal was to be top 10 in the world, so being in
the top 10 seed in the world in the ranking, so... 

Q. Can you tell us why you play righthanded. You know the answer? 

THE INTERPRETER: Yeah, I know the Japanese society, traditionally, women-- like society
made us believe that women should be -- because everybody is righthanded and it is not
good in Japanese society to be unique, and when she was lefthanded, her father made her
learn to use right hand, and so when she started to play tennis because everybody was
using the right hand, she saw that, you know, it is the right way to play. So it is
related to Japanese to culture. Custom-- now it is changing, people are accepting
lefthanded more. 

Q. How old was she when she started playing tennis? 

THE INTERPRETER: Six years old. 

Q. And played righthanded from the beginning? 

THE INTERPRETER: Right. 

Q. Are there lefthanded tennis players in Japan now? 

THE INTERPRETER: Yeah, now, yeah. So it is like when she studied at her tennis club,
people learn how to play righthanded. She said that the day she played everybody was
playing right-handed, so she thought that it was more right. 

Q. But you did hit actually a shot lefthanded in the -- late in the second set, I think
where you just -- do you remember that? 

THE INTERPRETER: She does play -- sometimes if she couldn't reach it, she switch her
racket, it happens sometimes, she does it. So it is not usual for her to -- 

Q. Do you feel that it is a sort of a silly thing that you were forced or made to play
righthanded when you were -- 

THE INTERPRETER: She said that if it is bad, then she will not be able to be this good,
so it has to be okay. Do you know what she is trying to say? Do you know what I am saying?
She said that, well -- she said that there is a possibility that, you know, if she played
lefthanded, she may not get this far. I mean, she got this far with righthanded, so she
thinks she doesn't see any problem with it. 

Q. Does Kimiko write with her right hand and everything now? 

THE INTERPRETER: Lefthanded. She write lefthanded -- she eat with both, in sports it
depends which sports, but she play either right or left. 

Q. Are you a big star back in Japan? 

THE INTERPRETER: Yeah. She doesn't think so, but I think she is. 

Q. But she doesn't think she is a big star? 

THE INTERPRETER: Yeah, she thinks she is. Now she thinks she is. -- Oh, she said she
doesn't think she is a big star. See? 

Q. You are through the quarterfinals. I think there is only one other seed and -- do
you think you can win here, do you think you can win this tournament? 

THE INTERPRETER: She want you to ask God. God only knows. 

Q. Does she believe -- I mean, she has made the semis at Australia, do you think she
could win this tournament, a similar surface? 

THE INTERPRETER: She doesn't know. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT