AEGON CLASSIC
June 12, 2014
Kimiko Date Krumm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. DATE‑KRUMM/D. Hantuchova
  6‑4, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First off, how are you feeling?   It's been a busy couple days. 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yesterday I played two matches; today also two matches.
Of course I'm tired, but I'm trying to‑‑ when I go on court, I try to focus, and then I try to not think I'm tired or difficult to move.   Just to focus the ball. 
And then when I'm on the court I still okay, but when I go outside of the court, I feel, Oh, I'm tired.   Yeah. 

Q.   To go back to your singles, Daniela said she thought you played one of your best matches today.   How do you think it compared?
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yeah, today I think it's almost perfect day for this year, maybe in a few years.   So of course I have no pressure today against Daniela.
She's defending champion, and then of course she's a top player.   She has many experience.   I have nothing to lose.
And then so I just try to focus and then I only think what I need to do.   It was working today, so I just more focus and then I don't mistake not so much today.
I had a good day today.

Q.   How does that compare to tomorrow now?   You'll be playing Casey, who you obviously know very well.   It's a semifinal at a premier event. 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yeah, we practice a lot and then we play doubles together also.   On grass, lefty, and now she has many confidence, so it's going to be very, very tough.
But I'm also not bad on the grass.   So not easy, because every day I play match and then doubles also, and then of course for my age it's getting tired.   Performance not going up, always every day it's going down.
So it's more difficult, but I try my best.

Q.   Do you feel that?   Do you feel your performance starting to slip?   Everyone else is just amazed by you. 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Every day when I‑‑ I don't know.   Tomorrow morning I don't know what's happen to my body.   This morning when I woke up, my glutes are so tight.
Then when I go warmup this morning it's very stiff.   It's very difficult to start right moving.   But the match is a little bit different.   It's more focus, and then my adrenaline also is coming.   So it's a little bit different. 
But today I played two matches again, and then tomorrow I don't know.   I don't know what's going to happen. 

Q.   Most of these question, what is your secret?   You're 43 and still competing at high level.   It's a matter of nutrition?   Training?   What? 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Oh, I just trying to just simple.   I eat normal, but I eat a lot.   (Smiling.)
But everybody think I'm eating every day sushi or Japanese food.   When I'm traveling outside Japan I don't eat much Japanese food because of course quality is different.
So I enjoy to eat different food.   Last night I went to the Brazilian restaurant, so I eat a lot of meat. 
Yeah, of course on the court I drink special drink from Japan.   Always I'm carrying a sports drink from Japan.   Drink a lot, sleep a lot.   Just simple, yeah.

Q.   Did you know that your last quarterfinals here were in 1989, 25 years ago at your first appearance as a qualifier?
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Here? 

Q.   Yes. 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   I don't remember.   (Laughing.)   I am? 

Q.   Yeah.   One last question:   Some people said that you have retired in your golden age. 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Do you ever think about what would be happen if you didn't retire? 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Didn't...
THE MODERATOR:   If you didn't take the break in between.
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Oh, if I don't take the break, for sure I don't come back. 
That time I was still too young.   Then difficult to accept everything because not so many Asian player in the world even outside the sports, tennis. 
Now it's many football player, baseball player, golf also.   Many Japanese player in the world.
But at that time it's not so many, so all Japanese media put all the pressure to me and I cannot control myself because too young.
No computer, no iPhone, so when I'm traveling outside Japan it's too tough.   Yeah.   So always I feel lonely and only I feel pressure and difficult to control.   I was not enjoying on the tour, uh‑huh. 

Q.   Do you remember anything of 1989?   You lost in the semifinals to Zina Garrison here. 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Here? 

Q.   Yeah.   Do you remember at all? 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   No.   (Laughter.)

Q.   Decades ago. 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   No, I have no idea.   (Laughter.)

Q.   Dani said you surprised her today.   Did you surprise yourself? 
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yeah, of course, because she is tough player and always keep fight.   Of course it's big tournament, and then I was tired yesterday already. 
But I believe myself.   Yeah, on the grass if I have perfect, my performance, it's very high level.   Of course I have chance.   But it's not all the time to do like this.
And then I keep ‑‑ the whole match just keep the motivation and then keep the level.   It's not easy.   So very surprised today for me. 

Q.   Dani thinks you can win this tournament; do you agree?
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   No.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT