WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2013
Kimiko Date Krumm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. DATE‑KRUMM/A. Cadantu
  6‑4, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be in the third round?   I think you're the oldest competitor in the women's draw to get that far.   
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yes, very happy.   And especially I love Wimbledon.   I have many good memory here.   I have good result here.   
So very special for me.   So I'm very happy to be the third round, even I'm 42.   I think it is amazing.   So I cannot believe.   But this year I skipped the many clay court season.   I didn't play.   I tried to focus on the grass.   Luckily this year I don't play the seeded player in the first rounds because most of time I played the seeded player in the first round.   
It's working this time, so I'm very happy.   
   
 Q.   Virginia Wade was waiting for you when you left the court.   What did she say to you?   
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   No, she just said congratulations.   We know the friends.   I know him very well.   Many, many years ago he's coming here for supporting the Japanese player.   He has a restaurant in New York.   He's owner of the restaurant, Japanese restaurant.   He support many Japanese player and also Navratilova.   Many player supports.   Mr. Kuaruka (phonetic) has restaurant in New York, 53rd/Lexington, something.   
We know each other.   She said congratulations.   Then Mr. Kuaruka very happy.   Something like this, yes.   
   
 Q.   The last time you made it this far at Wimbledon, you made the semifinals back in 1996.   What are your memories of that run back in 1996 and making the semis here?  
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yeah, I remember that day also all day raining from the morning.   I got the information, Maybe your match is cancel.   I think that around 7:30.   Then first match was Arantxa and Raymond.   Finish very quick.   So they said, You should go to the court.   
We start playing.   Then we split the set.   Still I can see the ball, but Steffi doesn't want to play.   She doesn't want to continue.   Supervisor coming, and then he said too darkness so we need to come back next day.   So no choice.   
But many people say, Why you don't complain?   But I thought the supervisor most strong, so I have no choice.   
And then next day when I'm on the court, Steffi come back to normal and then she was so strong I have no chance.   But only one chance to be final for my Grand Slam.   
But it was a good memory for me, yeah, uh‑huh.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about playing Serena Williams?   Do you think you can beat her?  
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   You know, now she's so strong.   It's very, very difficult to beat her.   I never play her.   
I play with Venus two years ago here, and this year in Miami.   But, of course, Venus and Serena is a big difference.   She has more power and she has more, of course, speed.   She has confidence.   She has everything.   
So I need to try, just try my best.   I hope I can stay more than one hour, one hour half.   
Try my best, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Have you been back to Centre Court since you played that match against Steffi?   What would it mean if you play Serena there on Centre Court?  
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Still don't know we play Centre.   Two years ago when I play Venus, I play in Centre Court with roof.   Then I was feel very good on the Centre Court.   When I was 25, 1996, big difference the Centre Court.   I can play the balls long time ago.   Now two times on the Centre Court, not so many people can play both.   
So next time if I play Centre Court, I'm very happy, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Would you like the roof to be closed when you take on Serena or would you like it open?  
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   I like closed.   So hopefully to be rain on the Centre Court, not No.1 court (laughter).   
   
 Q.   Tell us a bit about your fans.   I noticed you signing a baby's T‑shirt.   Your fans are very enthusiastic.   
KIMIKO DATE‑KRUMM:   Yeah, one older lady, she said, I'm coming from Japan.   Please, please, please.   She say more than 100 times.   Baby, I don't know boy or girl, but they don't know anything.   But mother is so exciting, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT