PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 28, 2017
Marcus Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARCUS ALLEN: The mountains and desert and cactus everywhere.  An experience I'm truly blessed to have.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I'm just blessed to be at a bowl.  I think me and my teammates are humble enough to just be in the predicament we are in now.  And we're definitely truly blessed to be in the Fiesta Bowl.  This is a beautiful bowl.  A great bowl to be in and something that a lot of guys would die to be in our shoes.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Washington is a great school.  I think playing against these guys is going to be a great game.  Two teams that are going head to head, both have dynamic players, elite players, just competing at the highest level.  I'm just excited to play those guys.   
 Q.  Penn State is in the same state as the Steelers (indiscernible).  
MARCUS ALLEN: My father, he's from Pittsburgh, and, like, I have a lot of family out in Pittsburgh.  And just playing in the state of Pennsylvania feels good, because got a lot of family coming up to the games and everything.  It's not a far trip.   
So it feels good to play in that area.  State College, Happy Valley fans, they are great.  It's a great fan base, and they go crazy.   
 Q.  You would like to work in sports media?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yes, that's definitely the work field that I want to get into.  Just sitting here right now, I'm sitting back and observing everything you guys are doing, try to like take mental notes on what you guys, like, how your approach is and everything.   
 Q.  Thinking about your future in the NFL?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Oh, definitely.  Yeah, of course.  That's definitely my main goal, reach the NFL.  But right now my focus is on Washington.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be a journalist major, to be experiencing this media day?  
MARCUS ALLEN: It's great.  I've experienced going to the Big Ten Media Day as far as going against all these interviews and going with all these interviews and just observing and taking mental notes on how the reporters come and like what questions they come to the interview.  They bring up a lot of interesting questions that I would basically just take mental notes on and try to mix up my own questions that I would want to ask.   
I remember at Big Ten Media Day, it seemed like repetitive questions, and I thought, like, it was getting kind of boring at a point in time.   
So when I went back home, it was, like, I went and took notes and see what I would do, like, do different to make it more interesting, because some of the guys were, like, getting kind of bored and just out of it.   
So me personally I would want to be the type of person that would want to bring light to the interview and make the interview way more exciting.   
 Q.  With this team, Penn State, 20 years since they've been in the Fiesta Bowl, but they're 6-0, is that added motivation to win this one?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yeah, definitely.  Definitely it gives you a lot of motivation.  To be honest, we motivate ourselves.  We motivate ourselves every day.  We have an expectation and a standard that we have to live by and that we're expected to live by and live up to.  As far as motivation, that's just adding to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT