ROSE BOWL GAME: USC VS PENN STATE
December 28, 2016
Marcus Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Marcus, we've been asking some of the older players if they had asked for NFL evals.  Were you one of the guys who did ask for an NFL evaluation?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yes, I asked for it just to see where I stand in the NFL.  That's all I did.   
 Q.  What did they tell you?  Did you hear back?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Haven't heard back yet.   
 Q.  And do you feel you have a decision to make after this year about your future?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I still haven't gone over with my family yet, but we're still constantly talking.  But as of right now, we're just strictly Rose Bowl.  That's all I'm focused on.   
 Q.  What can you tell me about the USC offense?  You guys obviously have a lot of tools, a lot of time to absorb what they do.  What can you tell me about them?  
MARCUS ALLEN: They're a great offense.  Up tempo.  They have a lot of spark -- like spark plays, as far as like JuJu making big plays.  Their quarterback is very athletic.  The number one receiver, he's pretty good also.  They're just like an elusive offense.   
 Q.  Do they remind you of anybody that you guys have faced?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I would say like, as far as passing, Indiana.  I don't want to compare them too close because like they're -- they definitely have like differences, like between the two teams.  And like Ohio State, up tempo team.  They're really good, though.   
 Q.  What do you feel you've improved over the course of this year?  What were some of your goals going into this season?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Just my leadership.  I believe that I was a leader this year, and I currently am.  I just go out there and try to play my game and bring everybody with me.   
 Q.  When those linebackers were out, does that really make it that much more important for you to step out and be a leader?  Your veteran guys were out, what, like three or four games?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I would say it was because like when you have a couple of your veteran linebackers down off of injury, it's like a lot of pressure on you to like have everybody gather around you, and also because you have like kind of the most experience on the "D."   
But then again, it's a relief because the guys that are stepping up, they know what they're doing.  They study the game.  They pay attention in meetings, and they're very great guys.   
 Q.  Speaking of starting linebackers, it looks like Koa's going to be the starter in this game.  How cool is it for you guys to see your Southern California guy get an opportunity to start here in So Cal?  
MARCUS ALLEN: It's pretty cool.  He's going to have a lot of playing experience out here on the field in his hometown.  His family gets to see him play some more.  But like, you got to understand, you've seen him throughout the season balling, getting sacks, making fumbles.  Every time he makes a big play, hits you with a shot, you know what I mean?  I mean, Koa is going to -- I have a lot of confidence in Koa because he already showed it on the field.   
 Q.  What can you say about his personality?  We haven't had a lot of opportunity to talk to him.  You're smiling now.  What can you tell us about him?  
MARCUS ALLEN: He's a character.  He's a funny character.  Like that's my brother right there.  But if you had been around him, he makes the whole room light up, you know.  He'll crack a joke here and there, but like you see how big he is, but you expect him to be all like, hey.  But he got a soft, light voice, like my voice is deeper than his.   
 Q.  One last thing.  Where do you think you need to improve your game?  Where are the areas you still can get better?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I think I can improve everything, to be honest.  There's no stopping improving your game.  But me personally, I think I need to improve my tackling.  Everything like coverage, speed, vertical, everything.  All aspects of my game.   
 Q.  What makes Darnold hard to play against?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Who?   
 Q.  USC's quarterback.  
MARCUS ALLEN: He's elusive.  He's a smart quarterback for his age also.  He's kind of like a dual threat quarterback.  So that's what makes him good.   
 Q.  Have you seen any similarities between him and Trace?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I definitely do.  That's a great look because we go against Trace every day.  So that's going to get us ready for him.   
 Q.  In what ways are they similar?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Just the elusiveness, and it looks like he's a leader on their offense as well as Trace is on ours, and he can sling that thing.   
 Q.  Marcus, what was your reaction to suspensions and how you guys are going to have to step up without one of your key guys in there, the linebacker?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Coach Franklin, I believe, handled it well, as he had to.  We just let that -- let Coach Franklin and Coach Pry deal with all that, and we just next man up.   
 Q.  You guys have stepped up, though, in a lot of difficult situations, a lot of injuries this year.  Has that been a good characteristic of this team?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Definitely.  We faced a lot of adversity throughout the season.  So that shouldn't be a problem, although you do feel for those guys.  It's just like next man up mentality.  So got to move on.  We got to focus on the Rose Bowl.   
 Q.  And how amped are you to take on an offense that's as exciting and talented as USC?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I mean, I'm jacked, you know.  I used to always watch USC in the Rose Bowl when I was a kid.  So like, it's like kind of funny being in the field playing against those guys, and I know a couple of guys on the team, not personally, but like we conversate, and a lot of cool guys on this team.   
 Q.  Who do you know?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I spoke to Adoree'.  I know Khaliel Rodgers.  Those are a couple of guys I talk to.   
 Q.  Do you know them at all from the recruiting circuit?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Just through social media and stuff, you know.  And he's buzzing on his team, so you get to see all his highlights and everything.  He's a great player.   
 Q.  When you see the way they use Adoree', do you give Coach Franklin a nudge, like I can do that too?  
MARCUS ALLEN: If anybody, I'd say John Reid can do some stuff like that.  John Reid is very elusive also, and he's a dynamic player.  But as far as like Adoree', he's a great athlete.  He can do everything, you know, offense, defense, special teams.  And you see that on film.  So it's like, wow, like he's a heck of a player.   
But we played against the guys like Jabrill Peppers also that does stuff like that also.  Jordan Whitehead plays offense, defense, you know.  So it will be another challenge.   
 Q.  The USC guys this morning were talking about the variety of pressures and looks that your defense will throw at opposing teams.  For those of us on the west coast who haven't seen a ton of you, just talk us through sort of the philosophy of the defense and how you get pressure on the quarterback.  
MARCUS ALLEN: We're a hard-nosed defense.  We're going to bring it, I mean, regardless.  And then again, we can also cover.  So we can cover, and like cover the pass and bring the pressure also too.  We're not going to stop bringing the pressure.   
 Q.  Marcus, for those of us that don't get a chance to talk to Coach Pry, he stepped up in a defensive role.  Linebackers are familiar with him.  What should we know about Coach Pry and his style and what he's been like as defensive coordinator this year?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Coach Pry, he's a great guy on and off the field.  He's like a father figure you can talk to off the field, but once you get on that gridiron, hard-nosed but then again laid back.  It's not like he makes your confidence go down.  He's a guy you can talk to.  He's a great guy.   
 Q.  Yesterday Coach Franklin talked about 'SC as kind of Indiana scheme.  
MARCUS ALLEN: That's what I said.   
 Q.  With Ohio State athletes.  
MARCUS ALLEN: That's what I just said.   
 Q.  Oh, you did?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  So that must be the deal?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Great.   
 Q.  What does that mean you guys have to do as somebody who kind of combines those two things?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Study lots of film, try to break them down personnel, and like as far as all the plays that they make, formation, tendencies, everything.  It's great to have like a jump on the team if you can like break them down on the film.   
 Q.  Do you know anything about your namesake at USC?  
MARCUS ALLEN: My what?   
 Q.  The other Marcus Allen.  
MARCUS ALLEN: Oh, yeah, of course, the running back?   
 Q.  Yeah, you know.  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yeah, I watched him in the Rose Bowl, like previously.   
 Q.  Has that been something that's followed you through your life?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yeah, everybody was like --   
 Q.  You have the same name as Marcus Allen?  
MARCUS ALLEN: -- do you know the real Marcus Allen?  Everywhere I went, they were like, You ain't the real Marcus Allen.  I'm like, Hey, what the heck?   
 Q.  Have you ever met him?  
MARCUS ALLEN: No, I never met him, but he's cool.  In the hall of fame.   
 Q.  Marcus, we talked to a lot of guys about NFL decisions.  You plan on being back next year?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I'm just focused on the season right now.  The season ain't over, you know.  That's it.   
 Q.  Is it tempting, though?  Jason said earlier today he's coming back next year.  Knowing what you guys are building, where does that factor in when you're making a decision like that?  
MARCUS ALLEN: The only thing that factors in is winning the Rose Bowl.  Have a rose in my mouth like this and having that big fat ring.   
 Q.  You think a lot about that?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yeah, that's all I'm thinking about.   
 Q.  What can you tell us about their quarterback?  He's a guy who's really kind of been the difference for them from early season, and then when he came in, it really changed things?  
MARCUS ALLEN: He's a dynamic player.  He's elusive, and he can sling it.  Like that's what I said in a previous interview.  I was like he's a great player.  Although he's young, he's still like wise.  He's smart out there.   
 Q.  We've seen Jarvis Miller.  He's doing some linebacker, but he's kind of a hybrid guy.  What can you tell us about him?  What kind of teammate?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Jarvis is hilarious.   
 Q.  Is he a better dancer than you?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I don't know.  Y'all can be the judge of that.  He do like two moves, and that's it as far as like dancing.  But he's a great guy, like as far as on the field and off the field.  He's intelligent.  He's always willing to learn more about like the game of football in general.  You know, he kind of just started playing football like in high school.  So like -- so he's still learning, but as far as his age, he's definitely improving every day.   
 Q.  You've been asked about this before, but the play that you and Grant made against Ohio State and then you make the fourth down stop against Wisconsin, those are two of the biggest plays of the season, and the Ohio State play will also go down as one of the great plays in Penn State history.  How do you feel being linked with Grant pretty much forever on a couple of plays like that?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I mean, I feel honored to be connected to those two plays, but I'm pretty sure, if anybody else were in our shoes, they would have made the play.  I mean, it's a lot of great athletes and competitors on our team, on our defense and on our offense, but it was just so happened that me and Grant just kept linking up.   
 Q.  Have you guys talked about it?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I haven't.   
 Q.  Especially Ohio State, let's start with that.  Have you talked about that with Grant much?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Of course.  Like after the game, Do you know that we just reeled out, blocked the kick and you scored?  It's shocking.  Like no one ever believes that something like that will happen to them.  Like I didn't know I would do that, and he didn't know he would pick up the ball and score a touchdown.  But it so happened that it happened, and it's reality.   
 Q.  You're like a month and a half away from that.  They're going to be talking about that play for 30 years.  Do you think it will hit you even more down the road, after the NFL, when you're 50 and talking about it with your grandkids?  
MARCUS ALLEN: That's the one thing, though, like I know how a lot of coaches on our team and a lot of people, like before I came, before I came to college, always say like how do you want to be remembered and like leave your mark on the field?  I don't think I'm done, you know what I'm saying?  I think this Rose Bowl coming up, I still want to leave my mark.  Although those two plays me and Grant made, whatever, we left our mark, but it's still like an unfinished story.   
 Q.  The fourth down play against Wisconsin, can you just describe technically what happened there?  Was Givens on the line?  Did he help force it out?  What happened there to get the runner to you guys so you could make the stop?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I just went to go tackle the ball, to be honest.  I didn't -- I was so zoned in on making a play.  Everybody was probably -- everybody was zoned in because like, to be honest, just like Jason Cabinda made that play against Iowa on that, when he jumped over the line, like LeBron Arrington, it's like everybody can make plays like that, and everybody showed that they could.   
So it just so happened to be those two plays, but if somebody else was in my shoes on my defense, I'm pretty sure they would have made the same play.   
 Q.  I don't think you've announced, but are you definitely back next year?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I'm just looking forward to this Rose Bowl, again.   
 Q.  Did you put your name in for the evaluation?  Are you waiting for that?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I did do that, but I haven't received it.   
 Q.  You haven't announced whether you will or will not be back next season?  
MARCUS ALLEN: No, I have not.   
 Q.  What do you guys need to do to slow down Sam Darnold?  You talked about him a couple of minutes ago, but technically speaking, what do you guys need to do?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Just bring pressure and try to get -- you know, get to him as far as like in his head or whatever.  Just got to make it a physical game.  That's what kind of defense we are.  We're a physical team.  We just got to keep staying that kind of like bracket and like that zone as far as bring a whole lot of physicalness in the game or whatever.   
 Q.  How much film have you guys watched on him?  
MARCUS ALLEN: A lot.   
 Q.  Yeah?  
MARCUS ALLEN: A lot.  We watched a lot of film.  It's been a long time as far as studying this team, and we still have like a whole week to study some more.   
 Q.  What are some of the tendencies you've seen from JuJu and Darreus Rogers?  
MARCUS ALLEN: They make like a lot of fantastic plays as far as like splashy plays.  JuJu is pretty strong, and he's a great route runner and strong hands.   
 Q.  Have you guys seen an offense like this, this year?  It seems like it's a lot different than anything maybe you've seen in the Big Ten?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Like I said, they have some type of Indiana in them and like a little bit of Ohio State with the up tempo and like how many athletic players they have on their offense.  That's the two teams I can like compare them to.  But they're so different that it's like -- it's kind of like being a little disrespectful to like compare them to other teams and stuff because they've got their own thing.   
 Q.  I guess going off that with Darnold, does he remind you of any quarterback you've faced or maybe seen?  
MARCUS ALLEN: This is a new kind of quarterback.  I don't think I've seen any quarterback like him, but he's a very great, good quarterback.  He's elusive.  He's dynamic.  And he can get out of the pocket and throw it, or he can stay in the pocket and eat you up.  But it's going to be a great challenge, and I think our defense is prepared for it.   
 Q.  When you look at them -- and you were talking two minutes ago to that guy they're kind of a little bit like Indiana and kind of play like Ohio State.  So what did you guys do to prepare?  Did you look at those two games again or no?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Definitely.  We definitely looked at those two games.  We looked at a lot of film on USC.  I'm pretty sure we got a good tendency on all their -- a jump on all their tendencies, like on their offense and everything.  So I'm pretty sure we're going to -- it's going to be a great game to watch and to play here.   
 Q.  Did you go back to before they made the quarterback switch or start when they made the quarterback switch in terms of film?  
MARCUS ALLEN: We watched everything.   
 Q.  What was the difference after they made the switch?  Did anything jump off the film to you?  Because they were not great before the quarterback switch, and then suddenly they obviously took off the way they did.  
MARCUS ALLEN: You said it right there.  He's a great player.  Obviously, there's a reason why he's starting, and they're on a roll right now.  We just got to be prepared to play against them.   
 Q.  Can you tell me and fans the whole fish hook thing, showing your grill?  
MARCUS ALLEN: It's not no fish hook.   
 Q.  Little Kodak?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yeah, Kodak.  He always be showing his grill and stuff and I just like showing a grill like that.   
 Q.  That's just something that you guys kind of latched onto?  Did you start it?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Me and my teammates started doing it like outside of football, and then as far as like on the field, we just started doing it, just being funny.  Then we just always started doing it, and I do it a lot.   
 Q.  How much feedback do you get on that?  People say what's going on with that?  What does that mean?  
MARCUS ALLEN: That's what everybody started saying, but I try to clarify.   
 Q.  So nobody did it, like it wasn't maybe a receiver?  Somebody was telling me there was a receiver on your team that may have been doing that?  
MARCUS ALLEN: DaeSean Hamilton?  Who said that?   
 Q.  I'm not saying who.  
MARCUS ALLEN: I'm not pointing no elbows.  It would probably be Bell.   
 Q.  Did he do that before you?  
MARCUS ALLEN: That's what I said.  If Bell say Henry started it, he's a liar.   
 Q.  I didn't say that.  
MARCUS ALLEN: No, but he was doing it, but he was doing it to be funny.  Like everybody started doing it.  So heck.   
 Q.  So how did it kind of like just keep going?  I mean, like it just seems like it's just growing and growing.  After one close, I forgot what game it was, but look on the sideline, and 30 guys were doing it at once.  
MARCUS ALLEN: Oh, this?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
MARCUS ALLEN: That's what I'm saying.  Everybody on the team started doing it, but give credit where it's due.  I started doing it like as far as on the field and stuff, but outside of football, we always doing it, you know.  We got grills.  We got real grills in our mouths.   
 Q.  Who has grills on the team?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Me and all my roommates.   
 Q.  Which roommates?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Hammy got one.  A lot of us do.  Dae'Lun.  Dae'Lun got one.   
 Q.  Does Trace?  
MARCUS ALLEN: No.  Troy Apke got one.   
 Q.  Does he really?  
MARCUS ALLEN: He does.   
 Q.  That's a sight.  
MARCUS ALLEN: He'll show you a real grill.   
 Q.  Talking USC now.  When you look at them on tape, what stands out to you as something that really impresses you?  
MARCUS ALLEN: They're elusive and dynamic as far as on their offense, fast, up tempo team, kind of like Ohio State.  And as far as player personnel, they're kind of equivalent to Ohio State and Indiana with the passing.   
But that's what I'm saying.  It's just speed, you know.  It's exciting talking about it because we haven't faced anything like that for real.   
 Q.  Do they have a fast-paced offense kind of like your offense there.  Does it help that you kind of go up against that every day?  
MARCUS ALLEN: We go against it every day, you know.  We're going against one of the best quarterbacks in the Big Ten.  We're going against Chris Godwin, Saeed Blacknall, Saquon Barkley.  We're going against a lot of dynamic players.  So it's going to be a great game.   
 Q.  I'm curious, did anyone ever tell you you should have gone to USC just because of the Marcus Allen connection?  
MARCUS ALLEN: No, I haven't heard that because I didn't have an offer.   
 Q.  Fair enough.  I guess, did you watch -- do you have any connection to USC going up to Marcus Allen?  
MARCUS ALLEN: No.  Everybody always used to be like, You know the real Marcus Allen?  Like I'm not Marcus Allen, but I know who you're talking about when you're talking about the real Marcus Allen.   
 Q.  You're also real?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yeah, I'm a real Marcus Allen, but I know what they meant.  They always try to compare that, just off the strength of my name.   
 Q.  Right.  Are you excited for just this venue, this stage, have you thought about?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yeah, because I used to watch USC all the time when I was a kid and stuff, playing in the Rose Bowl and things like that.  So it's like it's really fun.  It's kind of funny being in it.   
 Q.  So have you met Marcus Allen?  
MARCUS ALLEN: No, I never met Marcus Allen.   
 Q.  Is it on your bucket list?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yeah, I'll put it on my bucket list.   
 Q.  So you said it's funny being in the Rose Bowl game.  How so?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Because I used to watch it as a kid.  My father used to always talk about it.  It's a historic bowl.  When you're a kid, that's all you thought about is like the Rose Bowl, having a rose in your mouth smiling, saying, I love you, mom, all that, you know.   
 Q.  Are there any Rose Bowl games, when you think about the history of this game, that kind of jump out at you?  
MARCUS ALLEN: USC versus Penn State.  And it's like -- it's funny because it's like a repeat now, a rematch, whatever.   
 Q.  So to be able to kind of, I don't know, participate in a historic -- has it kind of hit you yet, or is it still kind of settling in?  
MARCUS ALLEN: It's still settling in because right now you're working every day.  So it's like I don't have no time to just like sit down and think, hey, I'm really about to play in the Rose Bowl.   
 Q.  How hard was it working at Disneyland yesterday?  
MARCUS ALLEN: I felt like a 10-year-old kid running around, me and Saquon running around together, you know, roller coasters, eating popcorn, cotton candy and stuff.  But it was fun.   
 Q.  What was your favorite ride?  
MARCUS ALLEN: California -- I don't know what it's called.  Do you know what I'm talking about?  California Scream.  Yeah, there you go.  When it went all the way around, like I didn't expect it to be like that.  So I thought like a chain or something was going to fall off.   
 Q.  Got to make sure all loose articles are secure.  They tell you that at the beginning.  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yeah.  I had it under my shirt, but I thought once it went up, I thought it was going to come out.   
 Q.  Have you guys gotten a chance to go to the Rose Bowl yet, like get to see the stadium?  
MARCUS ALLEN: We haven't seen that yet.   
 Q.  Are you looking forward to that?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Definitely.  Most definitely.   
 Q.  Have you ever been to that stadium before?  
MARCUS ALLEN: No, I haven't.   
 Q.  You've only seen it on TV?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Only on TV.   
 Q.  So since USC and Penn State is such a historic game, are there kind of -- what does it say to you about the way USC's been playing?  What's it like to get to this game?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Well, it's kind of similar to us, like we've been on a roll and so have they.  It's going to be a fun game to be a part of and play in because that's two teams that's on the rise that's going to clash against each other and two teams that have the utmost respect for each other because we both are like two foundations that have like a lot of historic -- history behind it and tradition.  So it's going to be a great game to watch and be in.   
 Q.  Are there any teams that USC reminds you of that you played?  
MARCUS ALLEN: Yeah.  I said they have some Ohio State in them and Indiana, as far as like the passing and Ohio State, like the up tempo and the personnel.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT