NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 1, 2009
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Great round for you, Janice at the Navistar LPGA Classic. Obviously bogey-free, but also more impressive, you had six birdies in the last seven holes coming in. How was that going in? Were you thinking about the run when you were in the middle of it?   
 JANICE MOODIE: Not really. I was just kind of thinking -- the last time I played the golf course was Tuesday and it was playing really, really well. All of a sudden I'm hitting driver, wedge, wedge, wedge. I thought, you know, I better capitalize on this one, and I did.   
 I think I was more thinking about how the golf course has dried out compared to making the birdies.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Great. So when you said, Driver, wedge, how many fairways did you hit?   
 JANICE MOODIE: I guess quite a few. I was only in the rough -- I wasn't in the rough very often. I was in the rough on 18, and I think that was probably the first time I was in the rough. So really hit it well.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Great. Questions for Janice.   
  
  Q. You were here last year. Does it help to have been here before?  
 JANICE MOODIE: You know, it's funny you say that. When I got to like 6-under, I was thinking to myself, You know what, I think you shot 6-under the first day as well. I was here with -- nannyless, and this time I'm with nanny, so I can watch Grey's Anatomy again tonight and not worry about nahving to sleep with him.   
 So I'll give her a chance of sleeping with Craig tonight.   
  
  Q. How does it look for the next few days? What's your take on this? How does it feel, and how does the tournament look to you?  
 JANICE MOODIE: You know, I had one focus out there. You know, my front nine I hit a couple of stray shots. I didn't hit very many stray shots, but I hit a couple out there. My head was just moving a little bit.   
 Tom, my caddie, mentioned, you know, just keep your head still. That was my whole focus on the back nine, and that seemed to work. So will be my key for the next few days.   
 And if I can keep doing what I'm doing, just looking forward to the rest of the week.   
  
  Q. This morning a 14 year old hit 7-under. When you heard about that, what as your reaction?  
 JANICE MOODIE: It's funny, I'm going down 18, and Hee Won and I were talking about it, you know, these girls are so young. She's like, Oh, yeah, the girl we're playing with, I think she's ten years younger than I am.   
 I'm look at her thinking, I'm almost three times her age. You know, never mind ten years younger. I'm three times this girl's age and she shot a 7 understand. (Laughter.)   
 You know, I think it's just great to see. Alexis is a nice girl. I played with her at the Kraft Nabisco, and we both played very well there the last day. I think she's gonna be a nice addition to the tour when she's ready.   
 So I just think she's a very talented girl and a nice girl, so it's great. Yeah, almost a third of my age.   
  
  Q. But you still want to beat her?  
 JANICE MOODIE: Absolutely. The thing is, I think she wants to beat me more than I want to beat her. I used to be that age. I know what it's like.   
  
  Q. You mentioned having Craig on tour with you. How is it balancing going back and taking care of Craig and coming back out and focusing on golf and balancing those two?  
 JANICE MOODIE: I've been really, really lucky. I have a great nanny, and my husband is great. He's in Cleveland and he said it's about to snow back there.  
 I didn't have Craig out last week. I have him out this week. I've kind of split it up a little bit and I've done a few more weeks on my own just to get time to myself. And, you know, I don't have to deal with his snoring, because he is the worst snorer in the world.   
 So just it's great having him out, but I also, you know, like having a couple weeks here and there to myself. So it's just great.   
  
  Q. What's gonna happen with Grey's Anatomy?  
 JANICE MOODIE: I have no clue. You know, I had two hours there last week, and so there's only an hour last week. A lot happened last week, so I've gotta check out what's going on.   
 At least I'm in 8:00 tee times, so I don't have that 7:00 tee times. So that will be really nice.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you all very much. Janice, congratulations on a great round.  
 JANICE MOODIE: Thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT