BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 16, 2005
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Okay, Janice, third day in a row in the lead, one shot lead.  Can we go over your scorecard first?
JANICE MOODIE:  Yeah.  You're going to have to help me.
MODERATOR:  Bogey on 3?
JANICE MOODIE:  Bogey on 3, just a 3 putt.  The first time I've actually been to the top of that one on the par 5.  And just left myself a really difficult chip, never got up there, and 3 putted.
MODERATOR:  Birdie on 8?
JANICE MOODIE:  Birdie on 8, 3 wood, and then I hit a nice 9 iron into about 12 feet there and holed it.
MODERATOR:  Birdie on 14?
JANICE MOODIE:  Driver, and then I hit a (indiscernible) into about 12 feet.  Really, really good shot.  And just missed the putt for eagle.
MODERATOR:  And bogey on 15?
JANICE MOODIE:  I tried to punch an 8 iron, and that wind was just swirling up in the trees and I really didn't have a clue what the wind was doing.  And I just didn't hit the right club, I guess.  Ended up in the bunker, didn't get up and down.
MODERATOR:  It was pretty windy out there this afternoon and third day in the lead going into the last round.  Want to talk a little about going into the last round?
JANICE MOODIE:  Really happy about how I played today even though I shot level par (indiscernible) the last two days.

But it was just more of the battle today with the wind.  And I think somebody sped up the greens for a us a little bit too.  They were definitely faster today than the last two days.
MODERATOR:  We'll open it up for some questions.
Q.  I apologize if you've already answered this cheesy question one of the two days you've been out there.  Nova Scotia is Latin for New Scotland.  Are you feeling at home out there?
JANICE MOODIE:  I am.  I'm feeling real at home.  I'm staying at a great house on the 3rd hole here.  And I had so much time this morning:  I worked out, I did two loads of laundry, you know, watched the Open, went on the Internet about ten times and then got ready for my tee time at 2:40 today.

So I'm glad I'm saying in a home.  And I think the four walls would have been coming in on me in the hotel room.  So just glad I'm staying with nice people.
Q.  How aware were you of the cultural and historical ties between Scotland and Nova Scotia before you arrived here?
JANICE MOODIE:  Believe me, Lorie Kane told me.  And then I also had a cousin that lived up here.  My cousin lived up here.  We worked with the bank, Dave Robinson, BMO, he worked there.  And he was getting transferred up here, so he was hoping to be up here.  So I actually almost had relatives here.  He got relocated back further south.
Q.  Could you talk more about the wind?  It's very difficult to judge the wind out here.
JANICE MOODIE:  I mean, it really was right from the first hole.  I had 162 in there, and I could only imagine what I hit    I think I had 172 the day before.  And I'm hitting the same club.  And I really have to hit it hard.

So there's just a lot of wind.  And I think it's with the trees and the gaps in the trees.  You just don't know where the wind is coming from.
Q.  Do you have a game plan for tomorrow?  Or do you try to stick to what has been working to this point?
JANICE MOODIE:  You know, I'm just going to go out and do what I've been doing the last three days, and that is just play the golf course.

Obviously, when you get into the heat of the moment, you'll be looking at who's doing what.  But right now I know I'm playing well.  And if I can just stay calm and stay focused, you never know what's going to happen.

I know I'm going to miss my flight tomorrow night, but that's all right.
Q.  What time were you supposed to head out.
JANICE MOODIE:  I'm on the 5:45 flight, and that ain't happening.
MODERATOR:  Any other questions?  Thanks, Janice.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT