BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 15, 2005
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  We have Janice Moodie in the press room.  First we'll just go over your score card.
JANICE MOODIE:  Let's see.  I had one bogey on 5.  Just didn't get up and down.

Birdie on 11.  It was so long ago.  Knocked a 7 iron into about two feet, holed it.

13, another par 3.  Knocked the 7 iron    it was 164.  Knocked the 7 iron into about five feet, holed that.

Then 16, I hit 3 wood, wedge, into about 10 feet, holed it.

18, hit a wedge.  Managed to hole that one, too.
THE MODERATOR:  You're currently still in the lead at 9 under.  One bogey through two rounds.  Talk a little bit about your round, your play so far.
JANICE MOODIE:  I'm feeling pretty good about that.  Again, I maybe only had two or three    maybe two other chances of making bogey.  Apart from that, the pars were fairly easy, which is always good.  I'm striking it well.  Let's hope the putter stays as hot.
THE MODERATOR:  We'll open it up for some questions.
Q.  Is this the best you've played in a while?  Are you feeling that confident when you're standing over the shot and feeling that confident when you're lining up the putt and standing over the putt?
JANICE MOODIE:  You know, it's a good question.  I feel as though I've been playing well for probably most of the year.  Just unfortunately I've had rounds where I had a lot of birdies, but then I've made a couple of really stupid mistakes.

In this game, with the standard of play, you really can't afford to make double bogeys.  I've kind of had a few rounds in the past where I've played really well but had the odd double bogey or just got myself into a bit of trouble, keeping myself out of the top five in the tournament and going down to maybe like 20.  Had quite a few like 20th finishes, stuff like that, but playing well.
Q.  You had some clutch par saves coming in, especially on No. 7 standing in the bunker, chipped it onto about three feet.  Talk about that.
JANICE MOODIE:  Yeah, 7, that wind, you're so far down there, the tree is up above you.  I saw that Tracy Hanson had actually hit 7 as well.  We actually hit it about the same distance.  I knew she hit the backboard.  It was 149 yards to carry that bunker.  You know, you have water in front.  I'm just thinking if I hit an 8 iron here and I don't get it up in the air, then the ball's just not going to carry.  So I tried to dink in a little 7.  Dinked it too well.

It was a great shot I played from that bunker.  It was an awkward one.  I was between kind of standing outside and standing inside, but I hit a really good little chip in there.
Q.  You don't have to answer this question if you don't want, but has it been difficult to focus in light of your father's death?
JANICE MOODIE:  Thanks for that.

No, I think it's been a little bit more so I just feel really calm out there.  There's more to life than golf.  I guess that's the way I'm looking at golf right now.
Q.  A question about the local hero, Lorie Kane.  Can you speak to pressures of playing at home.  With closer scrutiny than other golfers in the field, do you feel that when you are playing in Scotland?
JANICE MOODIE:  I love playing in Scotland.  Unfortunately, we don't have any tournaments there.  I wish we really did because I love having the crowd support behind.  I tell you, the Canadians have been great.  I mean, although Lorie is out there ahead of us, I tell you, I maybe didn't have as much, but there were a lot of Canadians out there supporting me, too, kind of tailing back and watching.

I think the support's great.  Lorie carries Canada on her shoulders each time she tees off, even in the States she does.  I think she does a great job of it.  She's a great person, really good friend of mine.  We've won a couple of tournaments together as partners, the Hyundai team matches.  She's just always been a great friend.

She really does carry Canada.  She has it here, too.  She's a great person.
Q.  I think she mentioned you on TSN, said she heard you were practicing for an extra hour.  Any tips on her putting?  No one else is even close to 9 under.
JANICE MOODIE:  I don't know.  I mean, I felt good with the putter recently.  I'm just stroking it in there.  I'm not trying to hole anything.  The putts are going in.  I'm really just, you know, pace putting it.  My goal is to get it a foot past maximum.  If it's a slippy little putt, what if it doesn't go in, I've hit it too lightly, I'll take the tap in over the 3 footer I could have had.  I think it's all about pace putting this week.
Q.  Did you and Tracy have a bit of a laugh when you found out you were wearing pretty much the exact same outfits today?
JANICE MOODIE:  She came up and saw me.  Tracy very often gets called Janice.  Believe it or not, I very often have been called Tracy because we're so similar, with the blonde hair.

I told her, "Listen, I'll keep my hair up in my hat so we can kind of tell the difference here."  We were very, very similar.  I actually was thinking about this yesterday.  I thought to myself, "You know what, I hope we don't wear the same thing tomorrow because we're just like twins."  We had a bit of a laugh about it.  Not the first time or the last time it will happen.
Q.  (No microphone.)
JANICE MOODIE:  Then when we had the (indiscernible) on this morning, there was no difference.
Q.  What will it take to win this tournament at the end?  Do you have to make more birdies or do you think you just have to keep it together and force everyone else to catch you?
JANICE MOODIE:  To be honest with you, I'm not thinking that far ahead.  I think I have to stay in the present.  I have two more days to play.  This golf course can grab up and bite you.  There's a couple of shots I maybe got away with today that, you know, maybe I might not get away with.

I think you really just have to take this golf course one hole at a time.  There's a couple of good finishing holes there.  You really just got to wait it out and be patient.
THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, Janice.
JANICE MOODIE:  You're welcome.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT