BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 14, 2005
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Thanks for coming in Janice.  Can you first go over your scorecard today?  Birdie on 2?
JANICE MOODIE:  Yes.  A birdie on 2 and in for about 10, 12 feet, holed it.

A birdie on 3.  I hit in about five feet there with a wedge.

Birdie on 4.  Sunk about a 45 foot putt, unbelievable from the bottom of the green to the top of the green.

And then 5, hit it in for 3 feet, holed that, and then a    oh, a wedge.

And then on 9 I hit driver, 7 iron to about 12 feet and holed that.

Then I just kept it really steady on the back nine and birdied 18.
MODERATOR:  Talk about 15 and 16.
JANICE MOODIE:  (Indiscernible) with the wedge.
MODERATOR:  6 under today, you're coming in with the lead.  Can you talk a little bit about your round.
JANICE MOODIE:  I feel well.
MODERATOR:  All right.  We'll open it up for questions, then.
Q.  Could you talk about the conditions out there?  How difficult was the wind, especially on the back nine?
JANICE MOODIE:  The wind started swirling a little bit.  To be honest with you, I had a couple of good up and downs for par towards the middle part there when the wind got a little bit swirly, you know, so making pars was good.  And then the birdie on the last.  And not making any bogeys was the key.
Q.  Some of the Canadians I watched today had trouble with the greens, they were above pins.  A.J. Eathorne (indiscernible) four and a half, five feet.  A lot of people had trouble with (indiscernible).  How did you find the greens today?
JANICE MOODIE:  To be honest with you, I didn't think they were as fast as yesterday.  But what I did was, yesterday I went out to practice and it was really busy and I just went onto the putting greens (indiscernible) for about an hour.  And I just really focused on where it's coming from, and that (indiscernible) is as fast as you're going to get on any of the greens.  And I just really kind of tapped putts in for over an hour, and I think it really helped because I putted well today.
Q.  It may sound odd to ask this after 6 under, but is there anything more you could have got out of this round?  Or was this best you could have done it?
JANICE MOODIE:  No.  I missed a shot putt on 1.  So I could have gone five (indiscernible).  And then I actually 3 putted from the edge of 14.  So there's a couple of extra ones.  But other than that, I played good golf and I'm not complaining, so I'll take 66.
Q.  Could you talk about your travel?  Last week at the English Open and then over to here and I assume back over after this tournament?
JANICE MOODIE:  I have probably racked up about in the last month, I don't know, 20 something thousand miles.  My dad past away in July, so    it's been a lot.
MODERATOR:  Any other questions?
JANICE MOODIE:  Thank you.
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Janice.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT