ASAHI RYOKUKEN INTERNATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2002
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LAURA NEAL:  Thanks for coming in.  Let's go through your score card.
JANICE MOODIE:   I eagled 6.  I hit a driver and a 7-wood.  Parred 7, birdied 8.  I hit 6-iron into the 11th green and holed that.  And then 9, I bogeyed.  A bad pop into the second shot and a putt from the back of the green there.  And then I just birdied, before we finished, No. 13.  Is that right?  Yeah, hit a 5-wood off the tee, 7-iron into ten feet and holed it.

Q.  When you made that birdie on 13, how soon after that did the horn sound?
JANICE MOODIE:  We called it right there.  We all decided, yes, this is it.

Q.  How big was that birdie that put you six ahead of Annika, who is well known for her comebacks, instead of five?
JANICE MOODIE: I really enjoyed birdieing that one because I was upset about bogeying No. 9, but it definitely put me one more ahead.

Q.  Janice, it looked like maybe at the start you could have had some things going against you.  Your first drive wound up in the trees and then Laura birdied 2 and 3 to tie you right away.  But you were able to hold yourself together at that point.
JANICE MOODIE: Yes, I had a couple of nice par-saving putts, up and down.  On 5, that was a really tough up and down.  I managed to hit a nice little chip in there.  After seeing both Laura's putt and Dawn's putt, I got a little bit of a read off of their putts.  They both left them on the high side there.  I just hit a bad shot off the first hole. 
It was one of those things where the LPGA is helping us out a little bit by putting some of the tees a little bit further forward, and it kind of confuses you a little bit because you haven't been playing  -- it's almost a different golf course, because there's a couple of tees we played forward, and then it's like, What am I going to hit here?  You have your game plan, and then it's kind of more strategy, What am I going to do here.

Q.  With the 3-shot lead what will your mind set be tonight as you reflect back and tomorrow when you come out here?
JANICE MOODIE: I don't think I'll have much time to think about it.  Go for dinner, turn around, and do it all again at 8:00.

Q.  What were you  -- the 7-wood on 6, that was a pretty gutsy play over the creek and then that bunker that was in front of you and then just a little bit of green to really work with.  Did you just feel that was your shot, you had that shot, that you could hit it where you wanted to?
JANICE MOODIE:  I guess that would be giving the secrets of professional golf, so I'm not going to tell anybody that.

Q.  How do you feel about -- I guess 23 holes tomorrow.  It will be a long day.  The course is wet.  It will be hard to walk?
JANICE MOODIE: It's one of those things, over the last two years, I'm physically fitter than what I was when I first came out on the tour being and I don't think the physical aspect is going to be a problem for me.  I think, if anything, obviously the mental thing of going to bed and kind of getting enough sleep and then starting all over again will be more draining than the physical aspect.

Q.  Assuming you come out and do not lose the lead and go into the final round with the lead, how do you feel you will play that?  I think the record book said that the last time you had a 2-shot lead, you won. 
JANICE MOODIE:  You know more about me than I do.  It's one of those things, when I shot a 66 yesterday, I was probably more nervous than I was out there on the golf course today.  Laura is a great person to play with because she's a great athlete.  She just gets up there and hits it.  I kind of spun off of that a little bit.  Playing with Annika last week, I learned a few things too.  You just get up there and hit it.  I watched her, and I just kind of worked hard and studied what she does, because she is a good person to have as a mentor and kind of look up to, because she's just a very very good putter, and I got a couple of hints, not that she told me any, but just from observing point.

Q.  There are several other people behind you.  Is tomorrow less of a patience game for you, whereas the first few days  -- (inaudible)?
JANICE MOODIE: You know, I really don't know.  I think if I go out there and birdie all the Par 5s, because they're definitely on, and make a few birdies, and just if I don't make any mistakes  --(inaudible).






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT