WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2001
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Played really steady.  Bogeyed the last two holes.  A 3-putt and then I was just in the rough on the right and couldn't get on the green.  It was a tough bunker shot.  But all in all very, very happy and very pleased. 
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I got up at 4:45.  And I got here, had a little bit of breakfast, and then teed off at 7, teed after at 8:15 again. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  No, I kind of just rolled with the punches out there.  I had a couple of nice birdies there on 14 and then 15. And then unfortunately I bogeyed 17 and 18.  I wouldn't put it down to tiredness or anything.  I hit good shots and they just didn't pay off. 
 
Q.  How do you feel about the course?  Does it suit your game?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I think the course is in great shape. It's running fast, but with all the rain that we had last night and yesterday during the day it was a little bit slower.  There was some 3-woods into par-5's that sometimes you're hitting irons into.  So it definitely played a little pit longer today. 
 
Q.  What do you think of the finishing holes?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  It's a great finish.  Real good finish. Four solid par fours. 
 
Q.  You have a house in England and a house in the States. Where do you feel you most belong?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I will probably end up living in the States.  Don't have the green card yet, but working on it.  I just love coming back home though.  It's almost like I come here and I'm definitely torn between the two, because there's so much that I like about coming back home, apart from now driving on the wrong side of the road that I'm not used to.  I think out in the States is where I'm going to end up being. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Well, normally because Glasgow is such a small airport we always go through Heathrow and then you have that BA flight up.  And they serve you those little scones with clotted cream and jam.  And that's me, I'm home.  And I eat every single bit of it. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I am.  Yeah.  I actually spoke to her on the range and I introduced myself, because I'm very good friends. And one of my first questions to her was, you know, are you going to go to the LPGA?  And she's like, "No, no, I'm going to have a year, I don't think I'm ready" and I don't quite, I don't quite understand that actually.  I said, "Ready for what?"  She's a good player, she should go and try it.  The only thing it's going to get more expensive each year she lays off.  It's a lot of money. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Well that's true as well.  Yeah.  I don't really know her to be honest with you.  I don't know what age she is.  I mean, I turned pro when I was 24.  And I think that was a good age to turn pro at.  I don't know.  How old is she?  Yeah, she's still young.  Maybe she needs to stay beside her mommy for a little bit. 
 
Q.  How important for the game is it that this is a major?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I think it's great.  I really just wish  that we could get more tournaments like it.  I don't see why we can't.  The press, the TV, the publicity we get.  I think that obviously with the economy going down a little bit it's going to be tough to get new sponsors and stuff.  But there's no reason in my mind why we can't have the Scottish that we had.  Because the crowd out there, they get behind us.  The crowds are unbelievable.  Until that downpour yesterday we had great crowds.  And obviously the downpour came.  And if you looked at all the people out there today, I've got bus loads coming from Scotland.  So, yeah. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I haven't got a clue. 
 
Q.  Are you the family breadwinner?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  At home?  Yeah.  Mom and dad are kind of, they're set in their ways.  And dad's getting his pension, mom's getting her disability.  And my brother is actually getting money for looking after my mom and dad.  But if they need anything, like my brother's got a thing about going on exotic holidays to Singapore and South Africa like this, so Janice is funding.  But that's okay. I don't mind that because he does look after my mom and dad.  And I think he does need to get a break away from them, which is good.  So I have no problem with that.  It's when they want new TV's and DVD's and stuff like that, that I have a problem with. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Yes and no.  If they need money I'll give it to them, but I'm not supporting them.  You know, if they need money, I don't know, every six months or so, I'll help them out. They will never need for money.  They're fine. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Mom had an aneurism, dad had a stroke. And I think that I'm very, very fortunate that my brother looks after them.  And if it weren't for my brother, maybe I would have to go back and kind of evaluate the situation a little bit more.  He does a great job. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I think she was, she had a great year, a good year last year in Europe and she's been playing quite well in Europe.  And then she, I think if somebody is torn between two countries it's harder.  She loves it out in the States.  She had a place in Orlando and I live in Orlando as well, I saw her there a couple of times.  But then now she's got a house in Norway so I think she's drawn more back to Norway now. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I really don't know. 
 
Q.  What are your thoughts going into the weekend?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Just kind of stay relaxed and stay as calm as I have been.  I've been playing really well.  And I feel I'm putting really well.  And I think that's definitely the key to making some low numbers out there is the putting.  I mean, there was a couple, there was 10 and 11 where I messed up.  I hit it in the bushes and on 10.  And I hit two good putts and I holed like a 6-footer for par and then I did the same on the next hole.  And those could have easily been messy and they kept me in the game. 
 
Q.  Did you have any input into this becoming a major?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I think it's great that it's a major. Obviously it's a long haul over here, but if we can keep tournaments on the east coast, and fly from the east coast over, I think it's wonderful.  It's really good. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  You know what?  I don't know.  Obviously, Sir Richard George did a very good job, but I don't know.  No.  I  mean, obviously the players from Europe are behind it, but you would have to ask them about that.  I don't know. 
 
Q.  Do you have a golfing boyfriend?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I had a boyfriend for three and a half years.  Same one.  Tim Carnevel.  He used to work with IMG in Cleveland.  And now he still lives in Cleveland working for another investment firm. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  My two holes yesterday? 
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Well I birdied 17 and then parred 18, didn't I? 
 
JANICE MOODIE:  This morning, yeah.  I wish I had that this afternoon. 
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Birdie on 3.  I holed a 30-footer on 4.  6 I hit it into the bushes and had to hack out.  And just missed the putt.  So that was bogey there.  7 I hit a 3-wood and then I had 167 to the pin and I hit a great 4-iron and into about 6 feet.  Holed that.  9 I took driver, hit it on the green to about 15 feet and actually lipped out for eagle.  Hit a really good putt there so birdied that.  And then 14 I hit driver left in the rough, 5-wood into the bunker and then I hit it into about 10 feet from the bunker on the right.  Holed that.  15 I hit a three iron off the tee and it was just like a couple of feet short of the green and I hold it from off the green with putter. 
 
JANICE MOODIE:  30 feet. 
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Oh, 17, do have I to do 17 and 18? 
 
JANICE MOODIE:  17, three putt, missed a 10-foot putt.  And then 18 I hit it in the rough right, hit it in the bunker right.  I hit it short.  Two putts. 
 
Q.  How long?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  25 feet. 
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I rammed it by.  I went for it. 
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Thank you. 
 
Q.  How long was the putt there?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  30 foot. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT