THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2001
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Two birdies.  Birdied the first driver and then I hit like an 8-iron into about 25 feet, holed it.  Then on the 8th I hit 6-iron into about 25 feet, holed that too.  The rest was just kind of pars.  
 
Q.  Tell us about the day, playing and  --
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Yeah, I mean obviously I think I did keep myself out of contention; came on to the second hole I lipped out.  Third holed, lipped out, it just kind of -- that was one of those days.  I had a lot of lipouts, a lot of chances, but during the home stretch, I had definitely made a lot more par putts.  
 
Q.  When the day started with the conditions being the way they did, were you thinking:  Well, I just need to shoot 70 or 68 or were you concerned about what the final winning score might be?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  No, I don't really think that way.  I just think you just go out and play the course.  Keep it on the fairways out here, that is the main thing.  Just play against yourself and the golf course.  Not anybody else.  I think I did a good job of that.  
 
Q.  Were you thinking coming into this week finishing this high as this well?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I just missed the cut last week, so you don't really think that high when you just miss a cut.  But the thing is I have been playing well to so obviously I know I have it is in me.  It is just a case of letting it come out. 
 
Q.  Two years ago you played really well here.  This year you played really well here.  Is this the major that you feel most comfortable at or is it just the golf course that you are comfortable at?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  I really like the golf course. Obviously the U.S. Open changes venue all the time.  Now the British Open is going to change venue all the time.  So this golf course really sets up well for me and I basically hit driver once off the tee and I am -- (inaudible) have a really long 3-wood and I just kept it in play all day. 
 
Q.  You were out there on the bridge.  Why did you feel a need to go out there to watch the end?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Obviously I was in the last couple of groups and I stayed around, you never know what is going to happen.  But Annika is a good friend and it is always nice to see her do so well and she is on such a high right now so it is just fun to be around.  I know her sister very well and we are good friends.  I support her the whole way. 
 
Q.  Can you put into perspective what the last three weeks means from a player's standpoint of watching her do what she has done?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Well, when she shot 59 I basically witnessed every single shot because I was right behind her.   I heard all the cheers, like 8 birdies in a row.  It was just cheer, cheer, cheer, you know, so it was just unbelievable.  It was fantastic.  Then we were in the trailer or the health club trailer working out and I mean she is just a really well-rounded athlete.  She is very, very fit and she got me doing the 500 situps and I hated her for it the next day, so..... 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
JANICE MOODIE:  Actually I think she did it before the 59.  She does situps.  I mean, she is really very, very fit.  I was hurting. 
 
Q.  How about just can you comment on just the three wins and the 59?  Is that just hard for you to imagine?
 
JANICE MOODIE:  No, she is so focused.  Do people say that about Tiger, "Unimaginable?"  She is just really on the ball right now and very, very focused.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT