THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 22, 2009
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Janice and Sophie, congratulations. I believe that (inaudible).  
 JANICE MOODIE: I think that we were 45 minutes ahead of the next group so we did get off to a fast start. It was just so much fun. Soph and I were just gelling well together and she said, "Janice, do you want to take the first tee shot." And the knees were knocking. I think we gelled pretty well in that format.   
  
  Q. You only decided on the first tee who was going to hit the first tee shot?  
 JANICE MOODIE: We only knew a few minutes before that we were going out together anyway. I just think it was a great pairing by Ali and I think Sophie thinks the same. It was an interesting match.  
  
  Q. Are you going to go and support the rest of the team because they are doing pretty well?  
 JANICE MOODIE: Absolutely. We need every point that we can get on that board before tomorrow. Tomorrow is going to be a really, really tough day and we all know it. We need as many points as we can have.   
  
  Q. Did you feel it was a good result, playing against the likes of Juli and Paula?  
 JANICE MOODIE: Absolutely. Sophie was like I think you need to take the iron shots. She will take the putts. I was quite relieved after that. We really gelled well together.   
  
  Q. You were practising this morning with your son.   
 JANICE MOODIE: He was in his kilt! I need to get a video tape of that. He loves to swing it. I wish Judy Rankin could give him a bit of a tip with his own clubs and not his mum's clubs. It was just a lot of fun. I haven't seen him all week so it was fun.   
  
  Q. Question re sitting out the four-balls. Did you feel fresh this afternoon?  
 JANICE MOODIE: It was nice to have a lie in. We didn't have dinner until 9 o'clock. I think it throws you off playing all of the morning matches.   
  
  Q. Where do you want to play in the singles?  
 JANICE MOODIE: I'll play wherever Ali wants me to. I said right from the get-go, if you want to play me, play me. If you don't, don't. I will do whatever you want me to do.   
  
  Q. Who will you go to follow this afternoon?  
 JANICE MOODIE: I think we'll try to catch as many as we can and maybe go to the matches that are struggling a bit.   
  
  Q. Was there any point where you were struggling?  
 JANICE MOODIE: Right from the first tee we went one up and then two up and then Sophie's like, "What's after two?" and I'm like, "three." I think we had that mentality the whole way.   
  
  Q. So you're confidence was building.   
 JANICE MOODIE: Yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT