PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 11, 1999
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you go over your score card?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Birdie on -- that was the par 5. I hit like 7-iron into about four feet.
Yeah, four feet, holed it. Oh, no, that was driver, 7-iron, I think that was, in to four
feet and then holed it. And then the par 5 that was a sand iron to about four feet and
holed it. Then the 7th, 162 -- I can't even remember them all. Oh, that was a 6-iron, and
it was off the back of the green. I hit, must have been, about a 30-foot putt. I bogeyed
14. Hit it in the bunker, left. Birdied 15. I hit another sand iron in to a foot. And then
16, I hit a 7-iron in to about 15 feet, holed it. And 18, I had an 8-iron into about 12
feet and holed that. 
 
Q. Did you like the greens here?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: The greens are not bad. And they are scraping up a little bit,
especially after yesterday. It was soft yesterday and there was a lot of spike marks. But
because there's only 30 players, it doesn't seem to be so bad. 
 
Q. But you are holding a lot of putts. You must feel pretty confident?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Yes, there were a couple of putts that I thought I just missed and I
thought I had good lines on, but it breaks. And I think that's why a lot of people find it
very tough. 
 
Q. Is putting your forte?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: I'm an average putter. I'd say I'm very good at long putts. And then,
you know, I get kind of close. And then probably six feet and in I'd say I'm pretty solid
as well. That 15-foot range I need to improve on. 
 
Q. The scores seemed to be very low today, maybe lower than they generally are. Any
thoughts on why that might be?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: I don't know because this is my first time playing the golf course. I've
never played in the tournament. But there is no wind out there, and normally, I'm pretty
sure that's some amount of wind. But there's basically no wind there that really made any
difference with the shots. 
 
Q. Is it important for you to get off to a good start?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Yeah, I mean, any tournament you play in, it's always good to get off to
a good start, yeah.  
 
Q. Last year you started the season -- (inaudible)?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Definitely. I played really well last year with the status I had and
managed to get a two-year exemption off that. This year, I'm 16th on the money list;
that's 16th in the world. So I've had a really, really good year. I've done well in
Europe, as well, at the same time. I think finished 9th on their money list, and I was
second in Japan. All in all, I've had a really good year, worldwide. 
 
Q. Do you have any regrets about the year? You sound like all in all, you had a good
year, but there's somewhere in there --?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: I mean, I had a great year.  
 
Q. Do you still think about the penalty fiasco in Springfield? Does that still cross
your mind at all?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: No. What's been done has been done. No need to think about it, until you
mentioned it. (Laughter). 
 
Q. Did you have expectations coming into this week that you would play well?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: I took last week off. I played in a tournament in Japan and took last
week off. I had three cavities filled and a crown. I have a temporary crown on; so that's
kind of nice. But it's that time of year where you've got to do that sort of stuff. Last
year, it was four (inaudible) and seven cavities and now it's three. Everybody says my
smile is so nice. It's just that time of year when you've got to do those kind of things.
And last week, I just needed a week off. I was just burnt out, and I'm really, really glad
that I did. And this week, I came here refreshed. Right from Monday, all of the sudden,
I've practice and more one working on my game. And I'm standing out there at the end of
the season wanting to practice. I think a lot of times when you get to this time of year,
the enthusiasm is kind of gone because you're sort of getting to the burnt-out stage. 
 
Q. Has it been easier though to keep the enthusiasm because you are playing well and
it's a lot easier to work when you're playing all as compared to the other way around?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: As I said, I was in Japan and I didn't feel that I played that well, and
then I went out and played absolutely shocking at Spanish Bay with my friends and stuff,
and that kind of gets you the enthusiasm to play that well when you play as badly as that.
It's like something is going wrong here. So I really went back to the drawing board. I had
a week where I was on a practice round on my own with nobody else, no distractions, no
cell phones, no people coming up to you asking you questions, and I think that really got
me focused again.  
 
Q. Can you point to one or two reasons why you've been able to make the leap to where
you are now?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: As in the score or as in general? 
 
Q. In general, to being one of the top players on TOUR?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: It's difficult, but when I'm out on TOUR, I try and enjoy myself as much
as I can. But at the same time, I realize it's a job and it's a living. Although I like
having a good time, I take what I do very seriously. And I think that kind of keeps you
going. And I have a routine now where I'll practice right before I play, and once you're
out here, you just get into that routine and a very, very real good -- I think when you
schedule it, it kind of keeps you on track.  
 
Q. So it's much easier this year as far as being for familiar?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Exactly. You knew where you were going; you knew where the practice
rounds was; you knew where the locker room was; you knew where you were staying; you knew
when you get to the airport, you know where you're going. And all those little things that
are definitely beneficial to know. 
 
Q. When you're back home, where is home?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Glasgow.  
 
Q. Here in America?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Good question. When I'm on the west coast, I stay at Spanish Bay. I have
my friends -- actually the director, Franklin Templeton and it's like a second home. So
whenever I'm on the West Coast, I can use the condo at Spanish Bay which is absolutely
wonderful. And when I'm on the East Coast, I stay in Orlando with a family that adopted
me, Jim and Jan Wood, and they live in Isleworth; so I play and practice in Isleworth the
last couple years, and spoiled as hell. In the summertime when the season starts, my
boyfriend lives in Cleveland, so I live in Cleveland in the summertime, and that's where
my car ends up for about three or four months. And now I just rented an apartment outside
of Isleworth a couple miles away; so I finally got my own place. 
 
Q. Do you ever see Tiger at Isleworth?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: I played tennis and I saw him a couple weeks ago.  
 
Q. Is he any good?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Yeah. Ken Griffey wants a game of golf when I go back. 
 
Q. Spanish Bay and Isleworth are -- I always think they are two of the more demanding
golf courses you can play. Is it helpful to you?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: I wouldn't say they are demanding. I think I've played Spyglass. A
really good friend of mine is the head pro there, and that is a very demanding golf
course. Isleworth is very demanding, depending on what tees you play. The longer you go,
it is more demanding, but Isleworth has been great to me. Just being able to practice, and
I don't play there a lot, because I kind of have to play with members and stuff. But I've
practiced there a lot and just getting used to Bermuda grass. I've never seen Bermuda
grass before. The two are so different; it's great to be able to practice. You get Bermuda
when you go to the East Coast, and we play a lot on the East Coast, and then the normal
stuff at Spanish Bay. 
 
Q. Have you have you had dinner there (Spanish Bay) on Sunday night?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Yes, I have.  
 
Q. Nice place, isn't it?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Very nice place. The family I stay with are members there.  
 
Q. Are you going to pick one place to live?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Not any time, soon. Really I have the boast of both worlds. And when I
go back to Scotland, I live at home with my mom and dad for maybe two or three weeks a
year. I just float. I mean, you're never really -- with the life that we lead you're never
really in one place long enough to call anywhere home. It's almost gypsy-like.  
 
Q. How do you things, like getting your mail and things?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: I have a management company, IMG, and so everything gets sent to them.  
 
Q. Do they have trouble finding you when you're all over the place?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: I have a mobile phone and I have e-mail.  
 
Q. So that connects you all over the place. 
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Anything that comes in gets sent to them. This new place I've got, I'm
not even going to tell anybody the address. I don't even know the address, to be honest
with you (laughter). There's so many numbers involved that I couldn't even tell you my
address. I've been there -- let's see, I've been renting it for about three months now,
and I've lived in it for about a week and a half. 
 
Q. What type of driver's license do you have?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Florida driver's license, and also British driver's license. Both come
in very handy if you get caught by a cop.  
 
Q. So your life (inaudible)?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Yeah, I'm a resident in Florida. I spend most of my time in Florida in
the off-season.  
 
Q. What would it mean to you if you could win this golf tournament?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: It would be -- I haven't won a tournament -- I've been so close. I've
been knocking on the door. To win one would be -- I've been so close all year, and it
would just be the icing on the cake.  
 
Q. But besides Springfield -- (inaudible.)
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Thanks for reminding me again.  
 
Q. What was that? I just heard about it today, that you called a penalty on yourself?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: No, the ball rolled while I was -- it was actually on my downstroke, and
I'm sure that I saw the ball. Roll, and the only one that can see it is yourself, and I'm
sure it happened; so I called it on myself. 
 
Q. And it cost you the playoff?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Yeah. An honest game.  
 
Q. What do you think about this field? You've got two players who are vying for the top
honors?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: It's the best field in the world. I mean, look at how many nationalities
do we have here. Sweden, Scotland -- two from Scotland, England, Japan, the U.S. . 
 
Q. So this could be the true World TOUR Championship?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: I think every TOUR is getting like that. I mean, the PGA TOUR is also
coming that way as well. I think it's just the best players are going for the best Tours.  
 
Q. How are you treated when you go home? How are you are received at home?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Very well. I mean, I don't go home much now. I mean, I was back home for
a month this year, and when I do go back home, I'm treated very well, but there's a lot of
times when you want to go back home and you don't want to be -- (inaudible) -- it's kind
of difficult, but I like it. I take my friend out to dinner all the time. Fly them to come
see me. That's the way it is. 
 
Q. Where will you celebrate the holidays?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: Erie, Pennsylvania. My boyfriend, his family, stays there. He's got a
very big family. So I won't be skiing -- I'll be sledging.  
 
Q. After the first of the year, you'll go back to Florida and start playing?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: After the 4th, so I don't get caught up in this Y2K thing. Anything else
about my private life? (Laughter.) 
 
Q. I just wonder, because you have so many homes, and in America, traditionally, people
go home for the holidays, and in your case, that could be in any direction?
 
 JANICE MOODIE: You're right. It could be that way for the next -- I don't know how
long. But, you know, eventually, I want to call somewhere home. And that's the reason I'm
renting an apartment because I don't feel that Orlando is going to be like home, home.
Although, I really, really like the area. I haven't found my niche yet and there's plenty
of great places in the U.S. to live, once I get my green card. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT