NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 26, 2008
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's go through your birdies.   
 JANICE MOODIE: 12, 3-putt, bogey.   
 Then I birdied No. 13 and I hit it to five feet.   
 No. 14, I hit a nice one to about ten feet, pitching wedge.   
 18, real good drive down there and hit a wedge.   
 No. 3, I hit it into 15 feet and holed it out of the rough on the right.   
 No. 6, hit a great drive. Hit a 50-degree gap wedge in to three feet.   
 6-iron, almost holed it. And then driver, 3-wood, two putts.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Janice, you stole the lead there at the end with that birdie on 8,11-under, up by one. If you would just talk about your round and how you feel being in the lead.   
 JANICE MOODIE: Well, I started on the back side and I had a bogey right off the bat and then a birdie and then birdied 9. I looked up at the scoreboard and I was definitely losing ground at that point. But I'm like, you know what, I'm playing well, just kind of keep it going, and suddenly I got a birdie barrage. When you get that run and you have five out there; a little bit disappointed I missed the one on 9, but I'm not going to complain.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Your last win came in 2002, and I know that's a little early, but does that creep into your mind about getting the next win?   
 JANICE MOODIE: Not really. I'm just enjoying the moment right now and trying to keep everything smooth and trying to keep the putting stroke smooth, the golf swing going smooth, and I'll get to that on Sunday.   
  
  Q. Last time you led --  
JANICE MOODIE: I think it was Annika at the Asahi Open. It was Annika and --  
  
  Q. Laura Davies?   
 JANICE MOODIE: Could have been Laura Davies. Yeah, it was.   
  
  Q. Going up against the heavy hitters under the radar --  
 JANICE MOODIE: You know, I've always said that I've been very good under pressure, but it's getting myself under pressure; that's the hardest part. That sounds bizarre, but it's the first two days; if I can get myself up there, I've always been fairly good at kind of keeping it going and I don't really worry about that. It's nice to have people watching you.   
  
  Q. Are you traveling with your son now -- how tough is that?   
 JANICE MOODIE: Last night, the first hour of Grey's Anatomy, he was being an absolute stinker, but then he fell asleep for the second hour, so that was good.   
 He's real good. He's a very good sleeper. And then last night, I normally sleep with him because I'm frightened of him falling off the bed. And last night, I just said, you know what, I'll surround you in pillows and I'll take the other bed, so he didn't fall off. I had crash mats around it but he didn't fall off.   
 It's funny, you travel so much with him, he becomes your best friend, even though he's only two. (Laughter) Pretty sad. He's pretty good, though. When he goes to day care, and I'm like, "Where are you going?"  
"Day care."  
He's like, "Where's Mommy going."   
 "Play golf." (Laughter)  
  
  Q. You mentioned about getting yourself under pressure, you started out with a bogey --  
 JANICE MOODIE: Yeah, it does. That's a very good point. You know, you're playing really well, you're up there in the lead and you make a bogey, and it kind of -- it kind of kicks home a little bit and you're like, okay, come on, it's not as easy as you think it is.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 JANICE MOODIE: Yeah, I'm just not really a huge fan of bermudagreens, so it's kind of nice to come here. I don't know how many grasses you have going out there, there must be about five different types of grasses. The greens are very consistent and it must be very difficult for them to keep the bent going in the kind of heat they have. The greens are definitely very good and you can see actually the fairways right now, they are getting burned out. So keep syringing those greens, please.   
  
  Q. Anything like back home?  
 JANICE MOODIE: You know, the bounce and roll is very similar back home. And I've actually used the putter from just off of the green instead of chipping it, because some of these lies, you just don't fancy getting a wedge on it. You might chunk it; you might kind of chili-dip it. And so it's actually very similar to the bounce and roll that you would get back home. Alabama links, you should call it.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT