LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2008
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Janice, thanks for coming in and joining us today. Great round out there. You're 5-under par, and you are currently in second place. Can you just talk about the difference a day makes and coming out here and playing in this weather as opposed to what you went through yesterday?   
 JANICE MOODIE: Yesterday was just really, really cold. Actually, yesterday I played really well, probably just as well, but missed a few putts. I probably missed three or four, you know, inside three feet. So, I mean, and I shot 1-under.   
 Then today I shot 4-under. I played well. I played solid. It was nice playing with Paula and also   
Jimin. It was just a fun day.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Can you talk a little bit about the crowds-- you are playing in a very popular group -- and what the support of the people here at Corning means for this tournament?   
 JANICE MOODIE: Well it was just so cold yesterday. I mean, it was going to snow, and there was just a ton of people out there so it was just great to see. Yeah, today again, I mean, 8:40 tee time, it's early and cold and we still had quite a few people out there as well. So yeah Corning loves its golf.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over your scorecard starting with your first birdie on the 11th hole.  
 JANICE MOODIE: Wait a minute. Can we go by 1.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay sure. The bogey on 1.  
 JANICE MOODIE: The bogey on 1. Hit a good tee shot then it was hurling into the wind, and I had 170 yards. And I picked a 3-iron, and it was one of those rescue things, and it just kept climbing into the air and didn't go forward. And I think up and down. And then a nice birdie on 2. So almost the opposite. I had driver 7-iron into 2. And just lucked out for my eagle putt there.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How far was that eagle putt?   
 JANICE MOODIE: 10 feet, 8 feet, 10 feet. Then on 3 hit a really, really good 5-wood into 2 feet. You know, the 119 yards and I ripped this 5-wood and, I mean, it took all of it.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: The eagle.  
 JANICE MOODIE: On number 5, hit a really, really good drive. In fact, Paula even commented on how far I hit it past her. So that was kinda funny. Then I get up there and it's in a divot. I hit that rescue again and this time it worked I went to couple of feet.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How far was the 3 rescue from?   
 JANICE MOODIE: 180.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: To 3 feet you said.  
 JANICE MOODIE: Yeah.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay. Then the birdie on 11.  
 JANICE MOODIE: 11, that was so long ago. 6-iron up the hill into about with 7 feet, 8 feet. And holed that one.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And the birdie on 17?   
 JANICE MOODIE: 17, that was long ago too. A driver, down at the bottom and only had 80 yards then, and I had a little gaf wedge in there.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Gaf wedge to how close?   
 JANICE MOODIE: To three feet.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And then the bogey on 18.  
 JANICE MOODIE: Do we have the go there?   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: You are the one that pointed it out. We would have had you at 6-under.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Twice I hit driver off the tree and I hit into the tree on the right, the Christmas tree. So off the tee and then chip out. I actually hit it into 3 feet. I hit a really good wedge there into 3 feet and missed it.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: All right. Questions for Janice?   
  
  Q. Can you talk about although it's not wet players are commenting still about the wind and the cold. Did you feel any difference between weather conditions?  
 JANICE MOODIE: Well, I mean, it was cold yesterday just flat out all day. And then today I had the under armor on. And by nine holes I took it off, and it was actually getting pretty warm. When you are wearing black it does get a little warm when that sun comes out. But I thought it was a little better today but it seems to be a little more windier.  
  
  Q. What about the greens? Greens drying out, speeding up, any change there?  
 JANICE MOODIE: The greens are just fast. I mean, you really have to be careful. If you are any point downhill, it's going to be fast. If you are a little bit uphill, it could be a little slower. So the greens are in great shape.   
 They're superintendent has done a wonderful job and they're just slick. They're fun to putt.  
  
  Q. Even with not being in the lead you are going to be out with the lead pair one of the later pairs. Certainly the crowd is going to be there for you as well. What do you feel about the crowd here at Corning? And you looking forward to playing in front of a big crowd?  
 JANICE MOODIE: It's kind of funny you say that. You walk around Corning Golf Club and, you know, I mean I haven't played great the last few years, but the amount of people that actually say, Janice, good going, I'm like how do you know me. I mean people really get to know the LPGA players. And I mean, everybody knows you by your name.   
 And we'll go to a lot of places and obviously, you know, you look like a golfer so obviously you are part of the event, but I haven't had as many people actually call my by me name as I have in Corning which is nice.  
  
  Q. How does this course play to your strengths? Is this a course that you are comfortable with, or is it something you have to adjust to when you come here as far as the layout goes?  
 JANICE MOODIE: You know, I think -- I played a lot of inland, parkland golf in Scotland growing up. The greens are beside the tees, tees are besides the greens. You know, there's not a lot of walking from green to tee.   
 You know Mhairi McKay and Catriona Matthew played on links golf, but the Scottish parkland golf I grew up is very, very similar to this. You know tight tree lines. And you just got to hit it in the right spot. I mean, I guess that's why it fits my eye. Although that was a few years ago I was back in Scotland. (Laughing).  
  
  Q. How about as far as your round today. Is this a momentum builder for you for the season? Obviously, you said the last couple times been here (inaudible). But is it something you feel like when you get it rolling a little bit after today and keep it going?  
 JANICE MOODIE: Yeah. I mean, last year I wasn't going to play here then I did and I finished 19th. So that kind of gave me a little bit of a boost. And I finished out the rest of the season fairly well.   
 You know, I mean hopefully this is going to do the same thing. I mean, I've had a mediocre year for my standards or for what I think I should be playing, but, you know, it's kind of nice to come here and make the birdies and know that I can still play the game.  
  
  Q. Are you at all a scoreboard watcher? Do you like to know where you are in terms of --  
 JANICE MOODIE: Yes and no. I mean, you know, today probably not. I just played golf. And all of a sudden I made that eagle, and then, ooh, my name's on the leader board. So not really a big scoreboard watcher.   
 When you got a 2-year-old you don't really have time for anything else apart from what's in front of you and the golf course and the little white ball.   
 I guess it's good thing I keep myself a little more detached from what's going on because there's just not enough time in the day. I don't go back to the internet and check out where I am at because I can't get on the internet because my kid will be all over the key board. So you just kind of play golf and go on with it.  
  
  Q. How do you spend your time when you come here? Do you get out in the community at all? Do you avail yourself of the housing?   
 JANICE MOODIE: My first year I stayed in housing, and I had a great time. Then I didn't play for a couple years here so I got a little bit detached from that. Then I've been staying in the hotel. When you've got a baby and a nanny it's tough to say, hey can I come and stay in your house.   
 There's a lot that goes on with my life now.   
 As for downtown, I don't think there's a lot -- people realize you have one of the best Indian restaurants that I've been to in the U.S. So, I mean, a lot of people here don't eat Indian food but I highly recommend it.  
  
  Q. What's it called?   
 JANICE MOODIE: Thail of India. And it's right downtown on the Main Street there. Very yummy.  
  
  Q. Did you discover this year?  
 JANICE MOODIE: I just discovered it this year, yeah.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How many times have you been there two week.  
 JANICE MOODIE: Twice. And the baby was there too.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And the nanny?   
 JANICE MOODIE: And the nanny.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Any more questions for Janice? Well congratulations on a great round and we look forward to seeing you this weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT