LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
August 31, 2007
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Janice, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  You shot your second straight 69 out there, so you're at 6-under through 36 holes and tied for the lead in the clubhouse.  Can you talk about your round?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I don't feel as though I played as well as yesterday.  Yesterday I had four straight birdies.  But I really got up-and-down when I needed to on that back nine -- on the front nine which still was the back nine.  It's tougher.  And I holed out on 8 which is always a bonus, and I just kept it steady again and birdied 16 and the rest were pars.  Just played real solid.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your eagle on 8 and that birdie on 16, how far out you were and what club you used?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I was 118.  I used a 3-wood off the tee just for position on 8, and obviously it was very good position.  I had 118 to the pin and I just hit a little 9-iron in there.   
 16, driver, just hit a 5-iron up front-right and 2-putted.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  How far out was your 5-iron?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  It was just front edge.   
  
  Q.  On No. 8, where was the pin today?  Did that ball have to run up there?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  No, the pin was front left.  I just was kind of on the right-hand side, and I just had enough room past that right tree.  I just hit a really good shot in there.  I actually thought I hit Rachel's ball and it went in, but I didn't touch it.   
  
  Q.  Did you see it go in?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Yeah.  I thought I hit Rachel's ball.  I thought she gave me the assist but I guess it didn't.   
  
  Q.  When you hit it did you think it was going to be that close?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  No, I knew it was going to be close.  You sometimes get those feelings.  But you either hit the front of the green and you go miles, or you hit on the green and it lands up, it shortens up.  So I just caught the front edge.   
  
  Q.  It's been very dry here and the fairways are pretty firm and so forth.  I know it's not to the extent of St. Andrews or anything like that, but just the course conditions, does it remind you a little bit of back home?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  More so yesterday because we played in the afternoon.  But in the morning you get that little bit of moisture on the ground, so it didn't really run out as far.  Yeah, there was a couple of shots at St. Andrews when I made the cut.   
  
  Q.  Annika is 4-under through the day already, what does that mean seeing her make a charge like that?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  It's great.  It's good to see her starting to play well again.   
  
  Q.  You said generally you felt like you played better than today.  Today you just were a little more scrambling.   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Yeah, that front nine, I didn't really hit too many fairways, and when you don't hit fairways out here, the rough is really patchy.   
 So, it just depends.  Sometimes you get a good lie in the rough and sometimes you get a really awful lie and I just happened to hit a couple of bad ones, so I had to scramble to get up-and-down.  I had a couple of good chip shots that left me -- I just holed a couple of 10-footers.    
  
  Q.  How was the wind compared to yesterday?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  It was similar to yesterday but not as strong, and I think that's just the morning versus the afternoon.   
  
  Q.  You've had a lot of things happen in your life here the last year or so.  You're a mom and a lot of things going on.  Has it been as far as getting back and playing and playing at the level you want to, has it been kind of what you expected?  Has it been more challenging than you thought?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Well, I have a 1-year-old on the road with me now, so that's more of a challenge than anything else.  But he's been really good.  We're really, really fortunate.  He sleeps through the night.  I have a wonderful nanny with me.  I don't think I could do it on my own.  There's a lot of girls out here that have their husband out here with them, like say the husband would take the baby to daycare.  At least I can just wake him up and go and not really worry about him.  So he's in good, safe hands.   
  
  Q.  Your nanny, what's your name?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Nicola.  You would say "Nicole-a."  Craig, he's going to be one next Friday, big birthday.   
  
  Q.  What's her last name?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Donnelly.   
  
  Q.  I understand you're staying with the Garrisons?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I am.   
  
  Q.  How long have you known them?  I know Katrina stays with them sometimes.  How long have you known Larry and his wife?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  They just keep popping up.  You'll be at a tournament and they just keep popping up.  So we've known them for years and years.  I think way back to Tucson, we used to play in Tucson.  So it's got to be at least eight years.  Kind of scary to think it's been that long, but yeah, for a long time.  And Fiona is a good cook.    
  
  Q.  Somebody said that he does some amateur painting, like of you and Katrina.   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I don't know if it's amateur.  It's very, very good.  It's amazing.  He's painted two pictures that are just outstanding, one of Katrina that he's got hanging up in the house and then there's one of me and it's just spectacular.  He's really, really good.  He thinks he's an amateur but that's pretty life like, very good.   
  
  Q.  He was a pretty good basketball coach, too.  If I'm not mistaken, I'm thinking the last time you played well at The Rail, you had a rather bizarre ruling situation, that was only tournament, one week, do you still remember a lot about that?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Unfortunately it put a dampener on me actually coming back here.  It just was a real bummer to think you're going to win a tournament and then somebody calls in from television, you've got two-shot penalty and then by the time you come on the 18th green, you get rescinded the two shots.  The whole week, I finished second.  Can I complain?  No.  But the way it happened it left a bad taste in my mouth.   
 It's funny you say that, I come up on 18 and there was a butterfly on the ball.  I'm looking at it, like, okay, I can move it, it will be okay, but there was a butterfly on my ball on 18.  Yes, I have to admit I was thinking of that incident.  So me, butterflies and Springfield, just not good.   
  
  Q.  In the aftermath of that, I know as I recall, Angus made the initial ruling and then they called the USGA and they reversed it and they told you.  In the aftermath of that, did they make any new -- reword or anything like that for that impediment in a hazard?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  No, it had been reworded, but Barb Trammell is who caught it and she had caught it on television, and if she had not been watching they probably wouldn't have given me the two shots back.   
 So it was just an unfortunate thing.  It was a miscommunication between our staff, I guess, and I just think that sometimes television can get in the way of what's really going on.  I didn't touch the ball.  All I was doing was casting a shadow.  I got, you know, penalized for something I didn't actually do wrong.   
  
  Q.  Is this the first time you've played here since?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I think -- no, I think I came back once or twice before that.  It just depends where it lies on the schedule.  Then I was injured for the year and then babies get in the way and all that kind of stuff.  But glad to be back.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT