RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2007
Janice Moodie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN CALLANDER:  Janice, thank you very much indeed for coming in today.  You managed to play the course yesterday.  What were your thoughts on the setup?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  It's tough, very, very tough.  The wind was blowing and my blades are no longer in the bag, so I think it's just a little bit difficult hitting the ball lower.  It's going to be a good test.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Is there an extra buzz being here at St. Andrews or in Scotland, for that matter?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Oh, I think so, we're in the R&A clubhouse and it's just very special.  The whole place is special, it's just got a buzz about it.   
  
  Q.  Have you had any unusual experiences in the clubhouse.   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I changed  my bab'y diaper in the clubhouse.  I would be lying if I didn't say it was a stinky one.  I used the towel and I was very respectful and, you know, the whole place is just great, just the general energy is wonderful.    
  
  Q.  Where about was this?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  No, this is in the locker room -- it might have been, it might have been.   
  
  Q.  Were you nervous about doing it?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I was actually.  Yeah, it was either the car or the R&A clubhouse.  The R&A clubhouse floor with a towel on it, and I was very respectful.   
 No, I just did it.  It was in the players locker room, so I thought I was okay.   
  
  Q.  Does you baby have a pass?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  No, that's a good question.  He's about the only person that doesn't need a pass.  All Davies can invade the R&A clubhouse.  There's a lot of them, Catriona was in with her little one, Kipper Diaz is over here; so I'm sure that we have a lot of -- in the R&A.   
  
  Q.  Is there a crèche here?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  There might be.  I have my nanny looking after them.   
  
  Q.  Was it a disposable nappy?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  It was not biodegradable.   
  
  Q.  How well are you playing coming in here?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Back to the golf.  No, the game's been good.  It's one of those things where, you know, you just feel as where you're so close and you just need that break to get back there.  The game's fun again, which is nice.  You know, before I had Craig, I had an injury you get over that and you feel like you're getting back a little bit, but the game is fun, which is good.   
  
  Q.  Why has your game improved?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I started working with Gary Weir, Scottish guy.  And ever since then, it's just started being a lot more fun.  I know where the ball's going, I guess that's what's fun.   
  
  Q.  When did you start with him?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Maybe 2 1/2 years ago.   
  
  Q.  Where do you see him?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I see him quite a bit.  He works in New York.  He's at Westchester Country Club in New York in the summertime, and in the wintertime, believe it or not, he works out of Orlando.  So I get to see him more than I would probably anyone else.   
  
  Q.  What have you been working on?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Yes, I've got that one that stops on the green.  But yeah, the ball flight's gone a little bit higher, and really short game as well.  He's really been instrumental in that.  He was a very good short game player himself and it's easier to team that when you're a short game player.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Fair to say lot of the girls will they can will be struggling with the higher ball flight?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  It's the higher ball flight and it's the club that makes it go higher.  I used to play blades around St. Andrews, and now I have these cavity-backs, and it really makes the difference in trying to keep the ball low.   
  
  Q.  What do you remember about playing here before in the St Rule Trophy?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Amateur-wise, I remember we played this in Royal Trophy (ph) and stuff but we played it from way forward.  I can't really remember the yardage we played but I can only think it was maybe 6,000, if that, maybe 6,100.  But they have got us back at 6,600.  There's no way we played it at 6,600.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Which holes are the big differences; do you remember that?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  It's so long ago, I can't really remember.  There were a couple where we were just that little bit further back instead of having 8-iron, 9-iron, 7-iron, you're back into your long irons.   
  
  Q.  (Have you played here since you turned professional)?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I did.  I came over with my husband a couple of years ago and played.  So, yeah, I've been over just a couple of times.   
  
  Q.  What are your views on playing the 17th as a par five?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  When we played the St Rule Trophy, it was always a par 5, the ladies par 5.  So to be honest, it makes no difference to me.   
 And to be honest with you, par on a hole, especially on golf courses like this, I don't think really matter.  I don't think you can think about par.  All you can really think about is maybe there's a couple downwind, like I think 9 is downwind and you've got to try and make your birdies while you can and you just know that there's some holes out there that even though it's a par 4 on the scorecard, it's not.   
  
  Q.  Do you play 17 as --   
 JANICE MOODIE:  No, just depends where your drive lands, but absolutely you take it on, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Are you in the Solheim Cup?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  That's a question -- I am not eligible.  I had Craig last year and there's no maternity clause on The European Tour to allow a player to have a maternity and then instead of playing the six mandatory events, play three.  So there's no way I could play six.  I could have played the three if there was a maternity clause if there was one, but I would not be eligible.  I guess having a baby is a bad thing.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything that can be done about it?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I think Helen's helping me with that.  We already inquired.  We inquired at the beginning of the year, and then I inquired a couple of weeks ago and I got a reply that they had contacted their lawyers and they can't change it midseason.  I hate to say, you know, it's their loss.   
  
  Q. Is it definite that you can't get a place?    
 JANICE MOODIE:  I heard.  I finally got my response.  It's just a shame because I would have loved to have played.  But I physically can't play six events with having the LPGA as my -- you know, that's where I base my career.   
 And the other thing is, I have a baby.  I can't travel back and forth six times a year to come back and play physically.   
  
  Q. Are there no get out clauses?    
 JANICE MOODIE:  Well, no -- if there was a maternity clause; in the States I had a baby, so my eligibility of the Tour was 2007 and now it's 2008 because the year we play we don't count the year.  I can play pregnant and it doesn't hurt me.   
  
  Q.  There are only a few Scottish golfers in the field. Is that a shame?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  I wish there were more.  I wish there were more coming up behind.  It seems to be myself, Catriona and Mary that have done well and gone on to the States.  I played with Claire Quinn in a practise round and I think she's thinking of going to the LPGA Tour and I think she's good enough to go to the LPGA Tour.  She's talking about financial backing to try and get there.  I just wish maybe somebody could step up and get there.  I told her there would be somebody to help her along the way, but I think, you know, hopefully she can get the funds to come over and play.   
  
  Q. Why do you think there are so few young British players coming through?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Are you talking about compared to the U.S. or compared to -- yeah, I think we're just a small population, as well.  And the other thing is I think Sweden has more financing in golf, and they will take girls and they will go to the south of Spain and play all year.   
 We have a very, very short season as well, which I think people forget about and I quickly remember about when I come back here, Scottish summer.   
  
  Q.  Why did you make it?   
 JANICE MOODIE:  Well, I mean, I was a hard worker when I was young.  All I did was play golf.  I just -- I was work, play golf, practise, play golf.  My whole life was just golf.  Sounds quite boring.  Maybe there was some drinking in between but it was mostly just golf.   
 Then I managed to get to the States through Lewine's help and I had some funding from the Scottish foundation and I slowly kept my amateur status and went to the LPGA Tour and got my card.  But I would say the States and going there really helped me to get to where I'm at.  And I did graduate.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Thank you very much and best of luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT