DAVIS CUP - SPAIN vs AUSTRALIA
December 10, 2000
Francesco Ricci Bitti
Juan Margets
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FRANCESCO RICCI BITTI: Good morning. This press conference, I want to tell you we have
some problem because you have been stopped so you get in late and I have to leave because
I have to say welcome to the King and the Royal Family. Juan Margets is here. I would like
to thank you for being here. As a tradition, we are available to answer any question. I
would say the plan this year was to talk about what the ITF started in cooperation with
the other constituency of the game, a problem that we call Marketing the Game. We felt
that our game is very wealthy, but we have to face competition. Tennis has more and more
competition, basically in attracting the junior to more sports, pastime, different kind of
a pastime. I would mention one that is very well-known to you, Internet, or these kind of
computerized sports. I have to say that this kept our attention. We decided to have a
summit for this issue in London, in Windsor. It was very successful. It was attended by
all the representatives of the ATP, WTA agencies. We gather and we had some conclusions. I
will ask the coordinator of in project inside, the vice president, Juan Margets. He has
also the facility today perhaps to answer the Spanish journalists in their own language,
and then somebody will translate for you. This is my introduction, but as I am here, we
are available to answer any question regarding Davis Cup and to ask Juan to give a few
words about the issue. I hope we distributed the press release which you can better
understand what is our aim, starting with this project: marketing the Game, Marketing
Tennis, The Way Forward is the Future, after the summit that has been held in Windsor. So,
thanks. If Juan wants to add something, then I am available to answer any questions. 
JUAN MARGETS: Thank you, Francesco, buenos dais. As the President mentioned, all these
projects about marketing the game deals with image and participation in tennis. We want
people playing more tennis, more often, and having more fun. After the summit that took
place in Windsor, near London, in November, we have identified a number of key projects
for the future. You have them in the press release, but I will repeat those projects where
we see that the ITF can play facilitator as a leading role are the following. i should say
those are projects that we need to assess when and what are the funds available to
implement them. A generic advertising campaign aimed at participation where we would
probably be coordinating, but the delivery and distribution (inaudible). Another project
that we think would be very helpful in this area would be an international rating or
handicap conversion chart. In other words, a common language. When we meet each other, we
know that we play tennis. Unless we are from the same country, or unless we've been
international level players, we don't have a language to know what is our respective
level. So any conversion, or common language, a way to know if a second series of a
Spanish player is similar to a minus 15 in France or whatever. That would be the second
project. A third one that would clearly involve close cooperation with the Tours would be
a global strategy to cross-promote our events. We are trying to promote the brand tennis.
Obviously, when you look to the calendar, there are tournaments every week that are
managed, owned by different constitutions. Any step in the direction of using one
tournament to promote the next one, irrespectively of who is the owner, would be obviously
for the benefit of the game. The fourth key project would be the international school's
internet project. This is a middle term ambitious project where he would try to create an
internet program, nothing to do with playing tennis itself, an internet program for
schools. To give an easy example, where we could try to study geography by following the
itinerary of a tennis player in one year. Of course, the idea on that would be, depending
on the country, we could be using the appropriate tennis player. I think it's quite clear.
Tim Henman starts playing in Australia, then probably goes to the US, then comes to
Europe. That would be a way to teach geography. The last one is national or Team Tennis
strategy and exploitation plan. I always say the same in this case. When my daughter was
younger and we were being in this city, you would allow me to put this example, as we
wanted to watch soccer, we got in the stadium, looked to the field, you knew, "This
is my team, this is my opponent." Identification was pretty obvious. In tennis,
unless you know the players, you don't identify them. So acknowledging the dress code in
tennis, of course, to think about systems of identifying teams in the team events would be
something that, again, would probably expand the interest of the game. My last comments
are going to be about the mechanism, how do we deliver that, how do we implement that. In
the summit, there was a debate. This is a partnership project in itself. We see ourselves,
the ITF, as the facilitators. But the key actors in each country are going to be the
national associations or appropriate body. At the same time, internationally, depending on
the content of each project, we will be looking to different partners. The leading force,
the institution sitting in the driving seat, we see as the ITF. But according to the
projects I mentioned before, we would clearly see involvement, strong involvement, of
different constituencies. For instance, in the identification of the teams project,
clearly, obviously, we need the industry and we need the national associations that own
the teams. In the case of the Internet school project, we would probably need for each
country a strong support from the national association to get some sort of help from the
education authorities. On the Internet ratings and handicap, we will need expertise of
coaches, et cetera. In the cross-promotion of events, clearly the Tours would be our
partners. I would like to finalize saying, again, that we see ourselves, the ITF, as the
facilitators and as the driving force, but not the institution that will be implementing
the project itself in each specific market or country. As you can imagine, that would be a
huge budget question. That concludes my presentation. As Francesco said, we would be happy
to answer any question. 

Q. I would like to know how you think it will identify the players in team events. What
are you thinking about it? I understand the goal, but how do you do it when each player is
sponsored by different companies, they cannot wear the same shirt? 

JUAN MARGETS: There were different options to implement this idea. Maybe if further
detail is required, Andrew Coe, our head of project development, is there. Basically the
layout that we see, it could be some discreet, according to the nowadays code of clothing,
a discreet identification of the national colors, national flag, something like that. The
way to achieve it is, of course, in agreement with the companies, with the manufacturers,
where they would be producing a specific team apparel where the teams could still wear
their own brand. I know this is not easy. Although this is not a proposal, what I'm going
to say now is not a proposal, I think it would be important to acknowledge that those
rights, the uniformity rights, when you're playing on a team, belong to the national
association. Tennis is a very particular sport. Those rights are normally not exercised,
although you would agree with me that they are exercised in some cases at the Olympic
Games. As I said, this is a middle term project. We need to talk a lot with the industry. 

Q. Tennis is the only international sport that is held to ransom by the clothing
companies. No other sport allows clothing companies to dictate what national teams wear
when they are representing their country. That i think is an indisputable fact. Why don't
the ITF simply make a rule? You're the governing body, just make a rule for the World
Group nations, national teams will play in national colors. The clothing companies surely
will just have to decide whether they want to stop players playing in the Davis Cup and
take the heat, when they say Alex Corretja cannot play Davis Cup for Spain because we will
not allow what the ITF are telling him to wear, and let them decide what they want to do,
instead of the entire game, from the agents, to the ATP, to the WTA, sitting back in
horror at the power of the clothing companies. When is one of the power groups in the game
going to stand up to these people and do what is right for tennis? That's my question. 

FRANCESCO RICCI BITTI: Can I say something? Generally, I like very much your statement.
But any situation has to be judged according to what has been done historically. As you
know, step back is always a difficult exercise. My point, I agree with you, as you know,
but in general my point is that we have to step back step by step, small step by step.
Why? My experience with the Olympics, it's terrible. Unfortunately, it has not been much
publicized. It's terrible. Our sport is very professional, very individual. There are
constituencies that perhaps you didn't consider enough that are the agents between all the
ones that you mentioned. I would say that they're more responsible perhaps than the
clothing manufacturing companies. For instance, everybody knows that I made this example
not to answer but to make if possible clearer what is the situation. The agent knows that
the Olympic rules, talking about governing rules, governing body rules, because ITF has
given a little bit too much, now we have to get something back. It's not so easy. Olympic
never release Olympic authority as a governing body. The rule is very clear. But there are
many players that sign without knowing contract against the rule, existing rule. You know,
many cases, not recently, but starting from Barcelona, every year is a pain, this matter
in the Olympic. The rule is there, but the agents make their player signing agreement,
they include in tournaments where the rules are very clear. We could try to do that, but
is not so easy. Perhaps is more a matter of compromising and discussions. But surely the
aim that you mentioned would be a great aim to improve our sport. Again, we talk about
image, that would be a great step. But we have given up too much historically, and we try
now in cooperation with all the people you mentioned, and many others, as I said, to make
the understanding that is better for everybody - this is a key issue - to make that
understanding that something that is good for the individual is not good in general.
Tennis is a very fragmented, as I always said, and confusing image in terms of ruling, in
terms of behavior. This is a good chance to do better. 

Q. I know nobody likes drawing parallels between tennis and golf. By and large the
agents in golf are the same companies involved in tennis, IMG, et cetera. When Ryder Cup
comes around or World Cup Golf, whatever, then the players of the nations play in national
colors. They might have their various logos on their sleeves, but the Australians will
play in green and yellow, they'll have either an adidas or Fila logo on their sleeve, but
they play in that color shirt. If you're dealing with agents, why can't the agents adopt
the same policy in tennis as they do in golf? 

FRANCESCO RICCI BITTI: Could be good point again. Could help us. The trend in tennis,
when you give up something, is always very difficult. The trend is just now the Players
Association raised another point that is against this. I recognize they want bigger and
more patch. This is an issue of these days. I don't think is very positive, but is on the
table. We try to manage, as you said, what is good for our game. Is not easy because, as I
said, if you give up something, stepping back is always difficult. 

Q. You mentioned the word "image" several times. I think everyone will agree
the aims listed here are all very needed and required. Would you like to comment on any
damage you think has been done to the image of tennis by the crowd behavior we've seen in
the last two days, which I know I'm getting a lot of feedback. People are appalled. 

FRANCESCO RICCI BITTI: I would say what I feel. I think the problem, if you want my
personal, not as the president of ITF, but my personal feeling is that we had some
problem. More than as a tennis player, I felt a little bit disturbed at the end of the
first match the first day only, to have a disturbance between the first and second
service. I was a tennis player, this tell me a lot. In try to defend the situation here. I
don't think it changed anything in the games. Second, you could not expect in a big city,
this was not the case in Santander, I don't know who was in Santander, in a middle city,
the participation is so high, the people are so keen not to do something wrong. In a great
city, my experience, Milan or something, the people are not tennis people. We could not
pretend to have tennis people in the crowd. Unfortunately, I think this is the situation
in Barcelona. On one side is good to get people that are not usual tennis fan, but with
some danger. I believe, after the first day, after we had some small period of time, the
umpires have taken control of everything.

Q. We have to sit back and just accept booing after every point, irrespective of who
the teams might be? This will lead to further problems if it is not stopped now.

FRANCESCO RICCI BITTI: I try to give you an explanation. I ask my friends in Spain,
more close to the feeling here, he could say something about that. My position is that we
took control. I said only a few times in the last part of the first match were to me
disturbing.

Q. One question. Regardless of whether what happened on Friday and Saturday is right or
wrong, it has created a story. It has made coverage of the Davis Cup final higher in the
news agenda than it otherwise would have been. Is that good or bad for marketing the game?


FRANCESCO RICCI BITTI: As I said in Lisbon, I make the example and then leave, they
were talking about Davis Cup not always in a very positive way, but all the time. I said
to Mark Miles, "Is good, because it means Davis Cup is a lot of interest." If
everybody is talking during the Masters, that I feel is the most important tournament, the
tournament that appoint the No. 1 of the year, I think it should be considered and I am
happy because I am a partner now to consider the most important events of the year. If
they talk about Davis Cup for two days, is not bad. The only problem is you have to listen
what they said and you have not time to counter what they said. There is always the two
sides. Is good to listen to talk about that. I think you are right, all this matter has
escalate and for the press is always good. It is more than what it was. At the end of the
story, we have to control. Davis Cup is a very particular environment, has a very
particular atmosphere. I think we have to be careful on controlling all the situation.
This is clear. Davis Cup is a very -- we say all the time that we are the guardian. If you
are the guardian, you have to take care of the small or big problem. Ciao. (Mr. Ricci
Bitti leaves press conference.)
JUAN MARGETS: Well, if you like me to finish on this point, Francesco mentioned that
I'm Spanish. That's absolutely irrelevant. As you know during the summer, there was a
slight discrepancy between the committee I chair and the Spanish Federation on where this
final -- not where in terms of city, but whether indoors or outdoors, where this final
should have been played. In that case, I didn't feel any problem at all in considering
that, although we have had very good weather, it was not in the best interest of the
competition to play outdoors. My old friends in the Spanish team, I hope they will forgive
me for that. I think the key question when we are talking about crowd behavior is that we
need to monitor the growth of the game. We need to monitor the growth of attendance. John,
we spoke informally yesterday. Let me tell you first something. Probably to consider that
what has been happening here in terms of booing affects the image of a sport, only tennis
among the really popular and international global sports, only in tennis probably is an
issue. I'm not saying more than that. This is a conversation that would not take place in
football, basketball, et cetera. 

Q. It would in golf. 

JUAN MARGETS: Well, yes. But sport is an extremely popular sport in some country. I
don't compare. I don't compare. I'm not an expert in golf. I don't see a competition in
golf with 142 nations. I don't want to exaggerate the cultural differences, but you would
agree with me, and I don't want to joke, but after two years and a half in England, I know
exactly that the way the expression that people express themselves in terms of passion is
different. But I think that our role, talking about development of matches, is to ensure
that both teams, and of course the opponent, the visiting team, can play in fair
conditions. This has to do basically with the continuity of the game, the continuity of
the play. 

Q. Francesco said before leaving the problem came from people who were not from tennis.
Do you think the captain of the team is not a person of tennis? The second question is,
should we take as example the worst behavior in other sports and be happy to see them
coming in tennis or not? 

JUAN MARGETS: Well, again, I think as chairman of the Davis Cup committee, it only came
to my mind the consideration of something -- that something has to be done on a question
towards the end of the first set -- sorry, towards the end of the first match on Friday. I
repeat, we need a balance. I think what Francesco is saying, this is a city with a yearly
tournament that gets 8,000 people, the Spanish Open in Barcelona. Consequently, for me the
key at the end of the answer is education, which is not a process that takes one day. I
can tell you stories of different countries that we should not use as an example. What I
read sometimes, "But it's much worse than ever." For me is not a valid question.
What I would like to say is I've been to a number of ties in South America. The sound of
people near me, even for myself being from the south of Europe, it was sounding to me very
aggressive. Surprising enough, at the end of the match, this guy yelling near my ear, I
say, "I'm going to have a problem now." He was smiling and congratulating me. I
would like to hope, and I desire - I desire - now as a citizen of this city, that this is
going to be the reaction of the team at the end. But, again, the point here is what we
have to focus is in the officiating aspect. I think the continuity of the game, as I said,
has been secured. 

Q. The situation is fine. You will acknowledge the problems at the closing stages of
the match of the Hewitt game. There was points yesterday when the crowd were booing,
jeering, when the Australians were about to hit returns or serves, and the fact that
Duarte was inciting the crowd, getting them riled up, how can that be excused? That can't
be excused at all. As soon as Newcombe does something, there's a problem. 

JUAN MARGETS: Again, it's obvious that Duarte was expressing -- his body language was
clearly encouraging the spectators, to support the local team when he felt that was the
team to support the whole team, in a very active way. We can, again, not necessarily to
refer, I can think about other captains which have a very strong body expression -
Yannick. I didn't see Duarte trying to provoke the spectators to discontinue the game.
Again, I think that my view is that the noise in support of a team to be strong is
acceptable. I think that that's what is about Davis Cup. I need to link one thing with
another. I would say that, yes, Duarte is a very active captain, but I didn't see him
trying to create a reaction from the crowd to bother the Australians in the time to play.
Only one further comment. I do not share, I do not share, as someone who has been in
tennis for four years, I do not share the attitude of booing to stop the supporters of the
visiting team applauding a good point. That's not an officiating question in my
understanding. 

Q. When you refer to Yannick, he did that a few times a match, not every point. The
behavior of Javier yesterday incited the crowd to do what they were doing. He was asking
the supporters to make the Australian supporters to shut up. That disturbs me and takes
away pleasure to watch the match. 

JUAN MARGETS: I think I expressed. 

Q. Can I make one further point on this issue. There's nothing to stop Duarte
encouraging his supporters. That's fine. We accept that. Would you have liked to see them
try to tell them to be quiet when they were booing?

JUAN MARGETS: When they were booing? 

Q. An Australian winner. 

JUAN MARGETS: Again, this is not something to rule. This is doing with fair
sportsmanship. I will repeat, I do share the view, but there's nothing to rule unless his
attitude or any captain's attitude would lead the crowd to interrupt. When I say that, I
insist, I don't like booing to stop the applauses for a winning point. I do not like it.
Any declaration that would have gone in the direction of, "Let's bother the opponent
when they are going to serve," that's absolutely to be ruled. 

Q. Don't you think that constant booing is bound to bother the opponent in some way,
even if they don't show it? Why does it have to go to the point where it is really serious
and clearly disturbing them before any sanction is even mentioned? 

JUAN MARGETS: I do not agree with this point. I don't think that this is disturbing the
players. I think the players need to understand, and we need to understand, and I still
respect the views on the sportsmanship, that noise between end of point and the moment
where the player is ready to serve, whatever the rule say, this period of 10, 12, 15, up
to 20 probably, whatever seconds, you know the rule, is not an officiating question. 

Q. Juan, it's not noise. Nothing wrong with noise. There was fantastic noise in Nice
last year. The atmosphere was brilliant. There's the booing, the constant booing. Don't
you think that's bound to get through? 

JUAN MARGETS: No. I mean, again, booing, is an unfriendly sound. Are you suggesting we
--.

Q. I asked you earlier, would you have liked Duarte to have asked the crowd to stop
booing when Australia won a point? 

JUAN MARGETS: I insist, I gave my views, personal point of view. But in my official
position, I have nothing to say on that. Thank you.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT