USGA MEN'S STATE TEAM CHAMPIONSHIP
September 30, 2016
Evan Bowser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Evan, tell me a little bit about this final round. Shot 1‑under, I believe.
EVAN BOWSER: 1‑under, that's correct. We came in 4 back. Been playing tough all week. It's a great golf course and it's tough.
I thought if two of us could post a round in the 60s that would be good enough. Obviously I didn't shoot a 60. I shot a 70, 67. That averages to be two 60s, and that got the job done by a couple shots.

Q. Talk about 18. Made birdie. Won by a few strokes as it turned out, but that was a pivotal moment?
EVAN BOWSER: Yeah. I was not the last guy. I was second to the last guy. I saw the leaderboard and looked like we were only ahead by one at one point, so I thought it was like a must‑make kind of play.
I was really happy. I had about a 15‑footer, but it was pretty straight and looked like I putt I could make, and I did and I am happy about that. Felt real good.

Q. Right. And you knew where you stood at that point?
EVAN BOWSER: I thought we were about one back ‑‑ or one ahead, I mean. Thought it was getting close. Then Mr. Werkmeister birdied 17, almost at the time I birdied 18, so that was great.

Q. You talked about in your play bio about experience with your mother and how that shaped you as a person.
EVAN BOWSER: Yeah, so that was back when I was in high school. You know, I have been kind of a different player ever since then. Just more relaxed. I appreciate things like this much more now. Life, you never know what can happen.
You know, I'm happy to win. I'm happy to play a great course.

Q. That's great. What was your approach coming into today? What did you all talk about the night before?
EVAN BOWSER: You know, we just said, If we go out and play like we can we should be fine. We didn't go out there and try to make miracle shots or anything like that.
It was great I birdied No. 1, but I just hit a good wedge shot close. It wasn't like some crazy stuff was happening. We just said play good and we'll be fine, and that's what happened.

Q. Any difference in the way you played personally today? Feel like your swing was better? You were playing better?
EVAN BOWSER: I felt like I hit it a little bit better today. Missed a couple short ones and I was hoping that wouldn't come back to get us. I'm happy it didn't. Missed a couple putts I felt like I could have made or else it would've been a much better round.
Still happy to shoot under par out here.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT