BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 2, 2005
Dave Kaplan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Slugger, for joining us for a few minutes.

Slugger White joining us, he has been here, for a long time today, so let's get our questions in, and get him out of here.

SLUGGER WHITE:  Great, thanks.

Well, unfortunately, we have exhausted everything to try to play 72 holes.  I mean, we have busted our backsides to try to do that.  It just won't work.

So we're going to try -- we're going to finish the first round tomorrow, get the second round started, I said 9:00, but it's going to be probably later.  We've probably got a good three hours to play.  I would say we'll have some -- we will have some golf left Monday morning, finish the second round, make the cut, and play our last 18 sometime Monday.  Until we see how many holes we're going to get through tomorrow, I can't tell you what that time will be.

So we have done everything we possibly can, though.
Q.  Any thoughts or worries tomorrow at all?

SLUGGER WHITE:  Yeah, we do.  If it stays windy like this, it may be okay, but we're looking at about 36 or 37 degrees, maybe a wind chill factor in the teens.

In the morning.  But the wind is supposed to subside somewhat, you know, comparatively speaking today.
Q.  Is that what you had today, wind chill in the teens pretty much?

SLUGGER WHITE:  I don't know.  I doubt it.  I think our high was supposed to be like 54 or something.  It was 30 miles an hour all day.  What a great round Scott shot, I think there was a couple of them.  Hell of a round.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Are temperatures supposed to be like it is today?

SLUGGER WHITE:  It's supposed to be warmer tomorrow.  I really didn't -- with everything else going on, I really didn't ask about that, sorry, but I heard it was supposed to be a lot warmer.  Do you know, Dave?
DAVE KAPLAN:  Low 70s.

SLUGGER WHITE:  I heard that, but I didn't want to step out with that, I wasn't positive.
Q.  Have you ever been bundled up in April in the south before?

SLUGGER WHITE:  I tell you what, this is awful.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Slugger, for joining us.

Dave, anything you would like to add about tickets?
DAVE KAPLAN:   Sunday tickets are good on Monday.  Thursday, Friday, Saturday, or Sunday tickets would be will good.  We will honor the hospitality tickets, but it's up to the  hospitality sponsor as to whether they open their boxes.  And I think we have about 60 percent of the volunteers said they would come back on Monday to help us through this thing, even with spring break next week.
Q.  There is talk of moving this to week after the U.S. Open, late May, early May, the theory was it's a great lead-in to the Masters; have you reconsidered?
DAVE KAPLAN:  Actually we wrote a letter to the PGA TOUR today asking them to take a look at what options we might have in the 2007-2010 contract.  Probably five out of the last seven years we've had some sort of weather conditions.  We had about all of them that you could have today but a tsunami I think.

There are a lot of good things about this day, but, you know, we've got to think of sponsors and other people besides the players who are spending money to entertain guests and clients and use the tournament for business purposes.
Q.  No one ever seems to bring up June, is a May or June or some other date out of the question?
DAVE KAPLAN:  We have probably played in May more than any other month.  This is my 23rd tournament and we've played every -- the week before the Masters to the week after the U.S. Open, and we probably have played more tournaments in May than in any other month.  We've played now since '99 in this spot, and we have played in this spot one time in  '96, we played in this spot.
Q.  Three out of four years it was the week after the U.S. Open, they always had the U.S. Open when it was here; is there something wrong with that?
DAVE KAPLAN:  Well, you know, I don't know.  I think from the standpoint of the heat and all that kind of stuff, May has been a pretty good month for us.  I suggested in that note that if THE PLAYERS moved to May, that we might like to move to the week before THE PLAYERS.  I don't know whether that will happen, but that was kind of the suggestion.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT