WNBA FINALS: MERCURY v SHOCK
September 5, 2007
Kara Braxton
Plenette Pierson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KAREN KASE:  We'll start right into questions for the players. 

 Q.  You were traded from Phoenix to Detroit.  Is there any extra incentive for you this series going up against Phoenix or not really? 
 PLENETTE PIERSON:  Not really.  It was great for me to be traded to Detroit.  I'm happy for them and their success, but it's not extra motivation for me, it's a business. 

 Q.  Kara, do you feel that you could keep up with their strength and size today or is that a matchup problem? 
 KARA BRAXTON:  No, I came out tried to do whatever I could do for the team.  We're a man down right now so I know we had to step up and just luckily it was a good day for me. 

 Q.  Do you guys deal with Ford out tonight did you have to step up the game? 
 PLENETTE PIERSON:  Definitely.  We both knew coming into this came as well as Katie Feenstra that we were going to have to pick up the rebounds and get some buckets on the inside.  And it was a great day for both of us. 
 Even Katie Feenstra, who didn't play a lot tonight she contributed in a big way and everything was just going for us.  We knew that they had a small inside group and we just had to bang it inside. 

 Q.  Kara, how tough is it to keep up with that team running as much as they do? 
 KARA BRAXTON:  Well it's the end of the season so I'm a little in shape now, okay? 
 (Laughter.)  No, it's fine.  They're a great running team and we do our thing inside, we pass the ball a lot, bang it inside, they run.  So we knew the challenges that we had facing us when we came in here.  So we're pretty good.  I'm good.  If that's a question.  I'm great.  Just want to say that.  I'm not good at this, if y'all didn't know. 

 Q.  Your bench out scored their's 50-6, do you see that sort of success in the future or is that just, how did that help out? 
 PLENETTE PIERSON:  Definitely I think our team we have five all-stars starting but any given night anyone can come in off that bench and be a supporting cast or be the main focus on our team.  We have a lot of all-stars on our team.  Whether we're actually an all-star or an all-star in our heart we just do our jobs and can do it any given night. 

 Q.  Kara, what is it that gets you going in kind of makes you have a good day?  Getting a block at one end or getting a lot of feeds at the other end getting the ball, what do you I this? 
 KARA BRAXTON:  You know, I really am not really offensive minded.  I would rather pass it to my teammate or do something like that.  Once I hear about my rebounds and I hear my teammates, I feed off my team.  When I hear my teammates when I hear them cheering for me and saying congratulating me on just a little anything little I just feed off that and it just builds and builds. 

 Q.  Do you think it went back the other way today that they fed off of you? 
 KARA BRAXTON:  Yeah, yes.  Yeah, you can say that.  I played pretty good today.  And they love when I play good.  The sparks that I do.  So, yeah, they fed off of it a little bit. 

 Q.  The remarks Sheryl said earlier was that this is probably the best game she's ever seen you play.  Do you agree with her? 
 KARA BRAXTON:  Yeah. 
 (Laughter.)  I hope to play better in the near future.  Like Saturday. 

 Q.  Kara, you played with some with Katie in the second quarter which is not a combination, what was that like and do you guys really, you really took advantage, seemed like you guys were able to take advantage of the size with the two of you in there? 
 KARA BRAXTON:  Actually it was pretty fun.  Like you said I really don't play too much with Katie at the same time.  But it was like whatever you guys call us the two headed monster or something.  It was fun. 
 Like I say, I love basketball, if she can post up, I let her go.  Like it it's great for me to watch because I love cheering on my teammates.  So it was a plus for me. 
 THE MODERATOR:  That you very much, ladies. 
 KARA BRAXTON:  Yes. 
 (Laughter.) 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT