U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2016
Karen Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seems like it's getting easier.  
KAREN GARCIA: Oh, man, I don't know.  I was a little wild and crazy again today, but scrambled and...   
 Q.  7 and 5 is...  
KAREN GARCIA: Yeah, well, I felt bad for Caryn.  She had putts all day long that looked like they were go in and right over the edge.   
You know, ended up I won some holes that probably shouldn't have in there.   
 Q.  Yeah.  I saw No. 11 there she had to make up a birdie putt.  Didn't drop.  
KAREN GARCIA: Yeah, yeah.  Turned the opposite way.  She's seen mine coming up, and then hers did the opposite.  I think that's the struggle with these greens.  Sometimes you think you know what they're going to do and they do the exact opposite.   
 Q.  Was there a key early on in the match that got you going?  
KAREN GARCIA: I scrambled on 5 and got up and down.  I mean, I pulled it left and, yeah and made par and then she ended up not getting it up the hill.  I think she chipped; I chose to putt.   
I par'd the hole and she bogeyed it, and I had no business wining that hole.  Stuff like that that just -- I don't know.  You know, I have to scramble at home all the time, so this is -- doesn't necessarily scare me, but I also know it's going to catch up to me if I don't play better.   
 Q.  Right.  Well you got an afternoon tee time in the semifinals.  
KAREN GARCIA: I know.  What could be better in life, you know?  I think everyone is taken care of back at school, and, yeah, I can just go and enjoy playing golf.   
 Q.  Could possibly be playing either the medalist or Andrea Kraus.  You play either one of them before?  
KAREN GARCIA: Never, never, never.  And I'm a Chip Kelly fan, so I'm a Duck.  It's nameless faceless opponent whether you're playing the Huskies or the Beavers.  You don't care.   
 Q.  Just who is next in the bracket.  
KAREN GARCIA: Exactly.  And that's safer for me.  I don't think about it.   
 Q.  Will you do anything other than eat lunch?  
KAREN GARCIA: I'll hill hit some balls.   
 Q.  Anything you have to really focus on?  
KAREN GARCIA: No, no.  At this point it is what it is.  I'm not sure there is anything truly fixable out here.  You are who you are.  Bring it and see what ends up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT