U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2016
Karen Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations on the great run.
KAREN GARCIA: I was trying.  I was working.  Bad drives caught up to me, so...
Q. Just demonstrates how hard it is to repeat.
KAREN GARCIA: And I think golf is so tenuous.  This morning I was striping it.  I was hitting at every flag, you know.  At times I hit the most amazing shots, and I come out this afternoon and an alien is swinging the golf club for me.
So that's golf.
Q. Sure.  What happened on the drive on 17?
KAREN GARCIA: Ah, I just was trying to -- you know, I just blocked it.  My target was the same as all week and just started out a little right.  Actually still could have recovered.  You know, I had an iron into the green.
Should have got it up there and 2-putted and we wouldn't be having this conversation.
Q. Sure.  The 19th hole was a similar sort of block?
KAREN GARCIA: Yes, exactly.  Exactly.  And, you know, my mistake usually is pulling it left, so then that's my compensation.
Q. Sure.
KAREN GARCIA: You know.
Q. Yeah.  How about the third shot on 18 where it came up just a little bit short?
KAREN GARCIA: I was in a little bit of a divot and I didn't give obviously enough club.  I couldn't make the same kind of solid contact and I thought I had enough club in my iron.  I thought actually I was the green for a second, and then we saw it coming back.
Q. How was your last year as national champion?
KAREN GARCIA: It's been a great year.  Every day is a good day for me.  It's been nice.
At the same time, it doesn't define me; it's not who I am.  I'll go back and start work Friday and that's my life.  This is just for fun.  It's been fun.  Totally been fun.
And the cool thing is you can't take away the fact that as bad as I played this match, I'm still a champion and I can build on that.
So I just got to start working out on Friday morning and playing golf Saturday and get ready for Waverley.
Q. Sure.  Well, good luck, safe travels, and see you next year closer to home.
KAREN GARCIA: Exactly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT