NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 23, 2014
Alec Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ALEC MARTINEZ:   I think sometimes it's on in the locker room after games, in the lounge or something.   We get a chuckle out of it sometimes.   
But, you know, what he does is very calculated.   I guess you would say he's a man of few words with you guys.   Oftentimes he has a lot more to say with us behind closed doors.   
He's pretty funny to watch sometimes.   
   
 Q.   Is he very direct with you guys?   How is he with individual coaching with you?  
ALEC MARTINEZ:   If you're doing something he doesn't like, he's going to let you know.   If you're doing something he does like, he's also going to let you know.   
He's good.   He's not as vague with us as he is, I guess, in front of a camera.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ALEC MARTINEZ:   We were laughing.   I think he gave the double peace sign at the end of his inaugural press conference.   We got a kick out of that.   
   
 Q.   Is there a healthy respect for him because of his coaching record with other teams, his long playing career?   
ALEC MARTINEZ:   For sure.   I think there's a lot of respect for him, the things that he's accomplished both as a player and as a coach.   He's been around the game for a long time.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ALEC MARTINEZ:   They're always a concern against a hockey club like this.   They look to generate a lot of opportunities off the odd‑man rush.   They're good at making plays off the rush.   That's something we have to improve on a little bit.   
A big part of that is not turning the puck over at the blue lines to give them those odd‑man rushes.   We've looked at video, probably watch more today.   
They're a good hockey club.   They're going to generate opportunities.   We've got to limit the amount we give them by turning pucks over.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ALEC MARTINEZ:   Obviously faceoffs are huge.   It's a 50/50 battle every time.   It's not just the centerman.   All five guys have to help winning those draws.   
I guess it's pretty simple in the fact that when you have the puck, they don't.   So I think puck possession is part of it.   
But it's also part of our game, too.   Forechecking, cycling the puck down low, hopefully grinding other teams down.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT