U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Andres Schonbaum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Two tight matches today. Let's start with the match with Kevin. Obviously you played him last year. It seemed like it was the same kind of a match today.  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Yeah, the same thing. I knew it was going to be hard because Kevin is such a great player, not only for winning last year, but he's a great player. So I knew it was a challenge for me because he beat me last year, even though he was pretty close. But yeah, I just fought for it, and yeah, I was really proud of that one. Actually there were a couple -- I was in 3 in the second half, in the afternoon match, and I was still pumped about it.   
 Q.  Tell me about the 19th hole against Kevin and the long putt. How long was it, and how did you get to that point?  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Well, yeah. Well, the wind picked up, so it started playing really into the wind. I laid up, then hit a decent shot, but still, I had like -- I don't know, like 50 feet. It was really long. And I really wanted to make it. I knew I was going to make a long putt at some point because I was close, but after the hole, there was a runout, so I wanted to be respectful with that putt. But I hit it, and I don't know, 10 feet short, it looked straight at it, and made it.   
 Q.  How excited were you when it went in?  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: I mean, not excitement, just relief, you know. Such a long battle, so tough, a tough opponent, and to make that putt to finish it, I mean, it was great.   
 Q.  Your second match against Johnny DelPrete, he came back at you with that eagle on 14 and then the birdie at 15, squared it. So what were you thinking at that point?  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Yeah, well, he hit that great shot on 14, as you said, and then made a bomb. And on the other hole, he hit a huge driver. It was like a par-4 for him, and I hit a really bad driver. But I tried to give myself a chance. I killed it, and then I was like, I've got to do something here, because I didn't want him to grow on me, you know. I just focused and hit a couple good shots.   
 Q.  At 16 on your second shot, how far did you have, and what club did you use?  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Well, I was committed to a 5-iron, and then it started blowing really hard, so I stopped for a while and went with 4-iron. It was a good change.   
 Q.  How close was it?  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: I was 10 feet, 12 feet.   
 Q.  And he conceded that?  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Yeah, he conceded.   
 Q.  And then you came back and you parred 17?  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: 17, yeah. He hit a good shot, but I didn't want to get it to the end of the green, and I left it too short with that slope in the middle. But I hit a good putt. I had it in the morning against Kevin. And then I could make it back. Good 3.   
 Q.  And a win.  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: And a good win after a long day, so yeah.   
 Q.  So you were in this position last year. What did you learn last year that's going to help you tomorrow?  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Well, just -- it's all about my attitude, I think, because I tend to get a little bit pissed, so I just want to -- for the next shot, I just want to be fine. It's a long tournament, so I'm going to miss, but I want to miss in the right places. I know I'm playing well, so I know at some point I'll do things right.   
 Q.  Does this course fit your game?  
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Yeah, yeah. Over the years there were some courses that wouldn't fit my game, but in the last couple years, I've been making sure that every course fits my game. I do a good practice round, and I just play smart.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT