U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2018
Andres Schonbaum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. On 4 you went 1-up.
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Yeah, I took the lead on 4; won a couple holes.  I got to 4 or 3?  Yeah, 4-up.  I played very well.
Then I missed a couple shots and Grant played very well.  So he was kind of getting close to me, and you know when they start getting closer you realize you got to hustle.
But, yeah, I played well 15 and 16, which was great.  Helpful.  So that was it.
Q. And then you won 6, 8, 9.  Can you talk about those holes and what you saw?
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Yeah.  I play very well.  As I told you, front nine I played very well.  I been hitting it great from tee-to-green and I made a couple so I made those and made a huge difference.  4-up in ten holes was great.
Q. Finished it off on 17 par - or with bogey.
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Yeah.  We kind of -- it was kind of -- yeah.
Q. Coming into today, how much match play experience have you had?
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Well, I played a lot of match play actually because we have a big tournament in Argentina.  We have the Argentine Am, which is match play; I played it well a couple times.
Then we have this big tournament.  It's called Inter-Clubs at every club in Argentina plays, and we play match play.  Then we have club championships, so we play like -- I say I play three tournaments a year match play, and I love it.
Q. You like it better than stroke play?
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Yeah, and counting.
Q. In match play is your mentality to play more against the opponent or the course?
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: That's actually what I work in ever time I play match play.  I like it better because I feel more relaxed.  I can go for more and stuff.
But sometimes I get -- I pay attention to what the other guy is doing and I shouldn't.
So I try and work and do my thing.
Q. And then coming into this week, you're a quarterfinalist.  How your game was, did you expect to be in this position?
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Well, that was a big thing, because I play really well first half of the year, and then I didn't have a good summer.  I went to Scotland, played pretty bad, and then came to the Western Amateur here; didn't play very well.  Played in Argentina and didn't play very well.
In the World Cup I wasn't playing well but I was kind of finding it.  The last round I play well, so that was helpful.
When I came here, the gut was kind of -- you know, I don't know, make me like -- I don't know how to say it.  Yeah, putting extra pressure out.  But I knew I was playing well.
So finally I played well, second round got in, and now I'm in match play.  Everything is okay and I'm playing well.
Q. On a day like this where you got two matches, what's the key to staying in the right mindset?
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: I think you got to do -- it's really important to do the things outside the golf course very well:  eat well, stretch, good sleep, hydrate.
Then when you're on the golf course, you got to know that in 36 holes you're going to miss a lot of shots.  Kind of be patient and forgive yourself.
Q. So being a quarterfinalist you're exempt into next year's Mid-Amateur.  How does that make you feel?  I know you played in this one because you're exempt.
ANDRES SCHONBAUM: Uh-huh.  No, I'm glad because I just love this tournament.  I know people are great here.  You guys organize a great event as well and the courses are good.  I love coming to the USA as I told you yesterday, so I'm glad.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT