TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2019
Alan Bowman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UTEP - 3, Texas Tech - 38
ALAN BOWMAN: Want to start off by saying that Weston Wright and Casey Verhulst stepped up today in a big way, obviously getting those roles. Weston; I'm real proud of those two guys.
So any questions.
Q. Dalton Rigdon, to get his first varsity touchdown catch from you, and then could have had another one?
ALAN BOWMAN: Yeah, you know, just where he's come from, from pairing ton, Texas, not many people know where that is, walk-on. Just kind of a guy that not many people believed in him, and he just kind of proved everybody wrong and so that's huge for him to kind of go out there and make that play and go score and show off his speed, so I'm happy for him.
Q. Coming from Grapevine, when did you find out where Perryton, Texas is?
ALAN BOWMAN: When I met him, yeah. Still really don't know where it is, but that's okay. He told me if I drive, I couldn't get there by myself.
Q. How would you evaluate your play tonight?
ALAN BOWMAN: A little upset with myself. I feel like I could play a lot better. I think I missed a of downfield throws which will probably be the key emphasis for next week.
But no, I think we stayed on course. We didn't shoot ourselves in the foot but we just kind of -- there's plays that can be made that weren't, and I feel like that's all on my fault. I can be better and I feel like I need to make more throws, obviously, in this league. So I feel like I can do a lot better.
Q. Is it more what you guys weren't doing, as opposed to what UTEP was doing to you?
ALAN BOWMAN: They run a lot of different coverages, switching from three and four down. But at the end of the day, our guys were open; I wasn't hitting them.
Obviously we won big, but we could have won a lot bigger. And just got to work on some accuracy and we'll be just fine. Just it's a good week to grow.
Q. What can you say about how your defense performed today? Did it take a little pressure off you?
ALAN BOWMAN: It's huge to be able to kind of obviously go three-and-out one time or kind of drive ourselves down, obviously we have to punt -- obviously we never want to punt but to walk off the field and know, probably like they are not going to score, they are definitely not going to score.
The way Jordyn and all them guys have been playing is huge. For them to have our back like that on offense just makes it more of, okay, we can try to make this throw because we know they are going to field and they are going to make a stop in the next possession. So it definitely opens up a lot more for us and gives us a little bit more confidence.
Q. Can you tell us a little bit about the two touchdown throws to T.J.?
ALAN BOWMAN: Yeah, I think the first one, obviously, they were manned up on the outside. We had a little stutter and go playoff of a zone read, and they were man coverage, that probably wasn't going to work. T.J. was just one-on-one, got a great release on the ball, got his hands on the ball as quickly as possible and fought to get in the end zone and stuck it over the pylon, or over the goal line.
On the second one, we just wanted it -- these one-on-ones, if they are going to go one-on-one against T.J., we are going to attack it, he's 6-6,210, I can't guard him, I don't know a lot of people that can.
So when he's streaking down the sideline -- that's one of the throws I did make, and he made a hell of a catch, too. So I think the combination of both of those things.
Q. Going into next week's game against a Pac 12 squad, what do you have to do -- what's your preparation got to be like going into a Pac 12 school in Arizona, and then that leading up into conference play?
ALAN BOWMAN: I think you just approach every week the same way. There's not much difference between like, oh, now we're playing a Pac 12 team. It's like, no, we're just playing a game on Saturday. Let's be 1-0 on that week. So in that aspect of it. But obviously we know the games, the level of play will be faster and will be higher and so I think we just got to play up to our abilities and we'll be just fine.
Q. How satisfied are you with your tempo on offense?
ALAN BOWMAN: Yeah, the first drive was the fastest we've ever gone. I think we were snapping it with 33, 32, 31 seconds on the clock, that first drive.
So obviously coming out the gate when you've kind of practiced it all week against your scout team, and it's nothing like -- that you can't simulate it. So coming out, running it every seven, eight, nine seconds, that's tough. So when we bang four out real quick, and they are trying to get the call and don't they even know where to get lined up, so that kind of helps us for us.
Throughout the game, it tires them down and that's why in the third quarter we started to run the ball more and get more explosive plays that way.
Q. Two or three times early, y'all didn't snap the ball until inside of five seconds on the play clock. That was after I looked back to the sidelines. Is that because you're seeing a different look?
ALAN BOWMAN: Yeah, I mean, we'll go -- we'll go on a look play and look back to the sideline and we are really not trying to snap it, as long as we get it done before one second on the clock. So it's not like they want us to get snapped, oh, this time, this time -- it's when we are going fast and want to snap it as quick as possible. So when we are trying to slow down and assess everything, that's not really what we're worried about trying to snap it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT