TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Alan Bowman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 45, Montana State - 10
Q. (No microphone.)
ALAN BOWMAN: Yeah, so I took my eyes away from it, which I probably shouldn't do. We worked on it a lot to not make a bad play worse. Obviously the ball's on the ground, make a zero play, so just kind of get back to where we were. Bad plays are going to happen so just get back to the beginning.
Q. How about the opportunities that you gave your wide receivers quickly when you get it out to them on the outside, like Rigdon, he got it quickly, he makes something happen with his feet?
ALAN BOWMAN: I think when you're able to stretch a defense horizontally and those guys outside blocking, like Erik Ezukanma, he played his butt off outside blocking, TJ blocking, KeSean, and that really is a big weapon for to us get guys on the outside quickly.
Q. You know I hate to bring it up. You had a little trouble with Xavier White's name like last week. Did you have to make it up to him and get him in the end zone there?
ALAN BOWMAN: Had to. Yeah. It's tough, you're going to make mistakes in a game, I know obviously he probably wants that one back, but I was happy for him to kind of get in the end zone and kind of find it pretty much on the same play.
Q. Showing off the wheels there at the end. Was that a read play or was that always just kind of a --
ALAN BOWMAN: Yeah, it's always kind of a read down there, but the defense normally kind of has a quarterback player and all game he was kind of more and more kind of biting down and biting down and then I just kind of took it and no one was there and ran a little too far, probably could have walked in way sooner, but got in.
Q. How much do you thrive, you could almost feel even that first possession the defense was cramping, tired, they had to call a timeout in the red zone. How much do you thrive on that and say, okay they're done?
ALAN BOWMAN: We call it, tap them out TTU. So that's kind of our offensive motto. So if anybody falls down for a cramp or taps their helmet like this that's when we get all excited and kind of we want to go so fast where they can't even stand up anymore.
Q. (No microphone.)
ALAN BOWMAN: That's huge. Those big boys up front played amazing today. Especially Casey Verhulst stepping in, first start this week, so played his butt off. But, no, it is huge, getting that run game up, because as soon as they worry about the run game, then it's lights out after that.
Q. We talked earlier about the flats that you were getting it out quick. Talk about Rigdon, you got it to him like four times in the first drive. Talk about him.
ALAN BOWMAN: I think he had four or five catches first drive. And just the defense that they were playing they just gave up that open zone. And then with Erik Ezukanma outside blocking, just getting the ball in the playmakers hands as quickly as possible and letting them get as much yards as possible.
Q. (No microphone.)
ALAN BOWMAN: Yeah, I mean you always hope for perfection, so, but, no I think the game started out well, I think we were seeing it pretty good, seeing it real good. And Coach Yost prepared me really well, kind of what they were going to do and we kind of had an idea going into the game, so shout out to the coaches and everybody kind of executing.
Q. Second quarter maybe you took a pretty good shot and got knocked down at the end of a pass. Any flashbacks?
ALAN BOWMAN: You know what, no, it was low, it was lower, but no, it was actually pretty good. I kind of wanted to get the first one out of the way, knowing I got hit pretty good and stood right back up, didn't feel any pain, so good to go.
Q. What was it the message in that huddle after Montana State scores to cut it to 14-7, you guys hit back after like what, 30 seconds?
ALAN BOWMAN: We felt like the game was in our hands, obviously the score kind of showed a little bit differently, but just kind of just stay the course. We're playing well, they haven't stopped us yet, we stopped ourselves. So just kind of stay the course and figure it out.
Q. Talk about Armand specifically. What can you say about him?
ALAN BOWMAN: No, huge. Obviously coming from Utah, first game, new atmosphere, kind of figuring it all out. But then again, obviously, I'm back there carrying out fakes and those big boys up front are opening holes and he's hitting them hard, he's attacking it. But, yeah, Armand, when he gets in space, running out, showed some speed and I think he's seeing it really well and the O line are blocking really well right now.
Q. (No microphone.)
ALAN BOWMAN: I was afraid he was going to get caught too, but he ended up making it. I know he's not known for his speed, but he looked pretty good right there.
Q. Still a pretty quick offense, talk about the difference between the new offensive coordinator and the previous one.
ALAN BOWMAN: Less plays, I would say, quicker, less plays but there's more each play is intricate. So you can do more with each play but there's less of them, instead of just a lot of different plays, so that's kind of the difference I would say. Same base stuff.
Q. Couch Wells talked about in the third quarter you kind of had a lull, kind of got out of it. What brought you back and got that competitive juice back in you?
ALAN BOWMAN: I think it's just kind of stepping on their throat and put the dagger in them. They were kind of -- they weren't lingering around, but they were still kind of -- we didn't feel like the game was going totally our side, our way. They did score a touchdown, they had a long pass, double pass down the sideline too. So I just think it was like, all right, it's time to go, time to put this thing away, so that's kind of what we kind of did in the huddle.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT