MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 24, 2015
Danny Manning
Bryant Crawford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VANDERBILT - 86 WAKE FOREST - 64
THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Wake Forest to the media room, Coach Manning, John Collins and Bryant Crawford.  Coach, an opening statement?
COACH MANNING: This afternoon Vanderbilt came out and delivered the first couple blows, and we didn't respond well.  From that point on, we played catch up.  They're very-well coached, Kevin does a wonderful job.  They shoot the ball exceptionally well.
We didn't do enough things tonight to prevent them from having the night that they had.  I thought in spurts we did some things, but over the course of the ballgame we have to do a much better job defensively.  But they played a very good ballgame.
Q. Bryant, as far as their length defensively, what are some of the challenges of having to finish over that length?
BRYANT CRAWFORD: Like you said, they had length, so when I drive, I either have to adjust my shot or I had to find the next open guy.
Q. Danny, I know it's early in the season, but after watching Vandy a few times on film and playing them, how impressed are you with their team?  What sticks out the most?
COACH MANNING: I think they do a lot of things exceptionally well.  I don't know if we'll see a better shooting team across the board.  They returned four guys that shot 40% from the three-point line last year.  You know, they shot the ball right at that average today.  They were a little over 41%.  So they're a very good shooting basketball team, and they're a very good continuity, flow type of offensive team.  In order to have some success against them, you have to be a little bit more disruptive than we were tonight defensively.
When they're able to get into that flow offensively, they're certainly much tougher to compete against because they do shoot the ball very well, and they also pass it well.
Q. Were you pleased with your team's effort and energy level throughout the game?
COACH MANNING: In spurts.  But overall, no.  Never pleased when you lose a game.  Hell, you're never pleased all the time when you win, but certainly when you lose.  We have to do a better job of coming back and playing after a win.  We've been in this situation now a couple times, and we haven't responded the way we probably should have or the way that I would like.  That's something that we have to get better on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT