NCAA MEN'S FIRST FOUR: DAYTON
March 15, 2016
Adrian Rodgers
Christopher Hyder
Trelun Banks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by our student-athletes from Southern, Adrian Rodgers, Christopher Hyder and Trelun Banks.
Q. Christopher, we know the type of nonconference schedule y'all play and there are a lot of financial considerations that go into that, but playing the type of team -- how does that translate to a situation like this, going on the road, playing some big name programs early in the year?  Is there something y'all learned back in November and December that's helpful over these next couple of days?
CHRISTOPHER HYDER: It helps you get prepared for days like this, because it's kind of a short turnaround.  We didn't get to do the normal, long scouting report against them, so it helps you prepare for this and your system play a big part where you play these type of tournaments because you've got to be ready to play the next day.
Q. You're going up against a team with a losing record.  How much does that play into your mind as you enter this stage?
ADRIAN RODGERS: I think at this point it don't matter about records, because you know it's been proven little teams beat big teams or big teams barely beat the little teams, you know, just a nail-biter.  So at this point we're just going to play basketball.
CHRISTOPHER HYDER: You really can't look at their record because I think going into their conference tournament they had a losing record, and look at where they are now?  They won their conference tournament.  So it's a fresh start for everybody.  So we have to come out and play to the best of their ability on that day.
TRELUN BANKS: Like my two teammates just said, at this time of the season records will go out the window.  Top 65 teams and you know we just want to come play 40 minutes and at the end of the day see how we come out.
Q. Just to follow up on that, usually when a team from a smaller conference opens up play in the NCAA Tournament, if they're not in the First Four, everybody talks about Cinderella and the big upset and all, but you're on equal footing here.  Is that a little bit odd to start play in the NCAA Tournament and you don't have that whole David versus Goliath, Cinderella thing?  You're meeting one of your peers?
TRELUN BANKS: No, not really.  You know, right now we're just happy to be here.  It really wouldn't too much matter who we would be up against.  Because right now it's really about us, like C-Bo said, it's a short turnaround, you're not really doing the long scout, you know the system.  The system that you play in really helps you a lot in situations like this, you know.  And we're just going to be together.
CHRISTOPHER HYDER: I mean, no, not really, because even when we play big teams we don't feel like all the odds are against us.  So I mean we just came here to play and regardless if they're a big school, small school, we're going do what we have to do to win.  We don't look at nobody as a big school or small school just because of their name.
ADRIAN RODGERS: Yeah, just to repeat what they said, it's our next game.  And that's been our motto all year -- next game, doesn't matter who we play -- big school, small school, pro teams, it's the next game.  We're going to approach it the same way.
Q. C-Bo, can you talk about what that year meant for you, not being able to play because of your blood clot and getting back to the tournament at this point, what you've learned since then?
CHRISTOPHER HYDER: It's just a learning process.  I kind of have to sit out.  It was emotional because I never had an injury like that that took me out the whole year.  So I just learned from it and cheered my team on.  They went on to win the conference that year.  We didn't win the tournament, but we won the conference.  So I just cheered them on.  And it helped me get ready for moments like this.  And it also made me more humble because my first year we went and it's kind of like my second year we didn't, my third year it didn't.  It just humbled me every year so we could get back to this stage where we're at now.
Q. A-Rod, what have you learned about Holy Cross the last couple of days, and what do you think will be the keys tomorrow night?
ADRIAN RODGERS: I learned they run the Princeton offense.  So they really like to half-court game rather than us, like to get out on the break or dribble drive.  So we think we're going to focus on staying under, not let the Princeton cuts affect us as much as they did when they were in their championship in their conference tournament the past couple of weeks.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT