THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  8-under this week so far on the par-5s.  How important was that going into the week?  
JONAS BLIXT: Yeah, no, I've been struggling on the par-5s this year, so my caddie and I, we have been talking about it and lucky we got one week where we actually play well on them.   
 Q.  Birdie on 18.  How big was that for the round?  
JONAS BLIXT: Not as big as the up-and-down on 15, I think.  I was getting on that bogey train there, it was pretty much right on the train and then got up-and-down there and kind of changed my mindset a little bit and got a birdie on the next and kind of kept going.   
 Q.  Talked yesterday about needing to be aggressive because of what guys did in the morning, did you take that approach into today as well?  
JONAS BLIXT: I kept on firing.  Made three birdies the first three holes and kind of felt good about it.  Not the greatest two bogeys after that, but, no, I got to stay aggressive out here and also hit a lot of fairways.   
 Q.  What is it about your game that lends itself to streaks of missed cuts and then all of a sudden you play your way into contention?  
JONAS BLIXT: My ball striking, probably.  Short game is usually is pretty good, but if I can get my tee shots in the fairway, then I'm usually pretty, playing pretty good.   
 Q.  You were working on some stuff earlier this week that really helped you.  What were you working on?  
JONAS BLIXT: Just staying over the ball.  I've been moving off the ball a little bit and getting those misses that are high right.  So, I got some stuff going on before every shot to kind of keeps me in the, in doing that and it's been working so far.   
 Q.  Since you live here, how often do you play here?  
JONAS BLIXT: Well, when I'm home probably two, three times a week.   
 Q.  How surprised are you to see it like this after seeing it all these times as receptive as it is these last couple days?  
JONAS BLIXT: The golf course?  Usually plays way wetter.  So for me, it's a lot faster.  It is way different than we usually play it.  And you kind of got to adjust to where you want to hit your golf ball to, because now you can hit it so much further than you usually do.  So sometimes I have to scale back with the 3-wood instead of a driver and stuff.   
 Q.  Do you feel like have you an advantage knowing the course well or does it make it tougher that you know where all the trouble is?  
JONAS BLIXT: It can be.  I caught myself on one today and I knew I had no chance to get the ball close to the pin there.  Both yes and no.  I know where I can hit it and I know where I should hit it and if you are playing well, it's definitely an advantage.   
 Q.  Because you know this place so well and you spent a lot of time around here, how cool is it to sit here on a Friday and be leading THE PLAYERS?  
JONAS BLIXT: Really, really cool.  Yeah, I have so many friends out here and it's just awesome being out here.  They cheer me on and you get a little pumped up when you hear them scream, so it's definitely very special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT