THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2016
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Start by talking a little bit about the eagle you made today.  That had to feel good.  
JONAS BLIXT: Yeah, the tee shot was great, but that was not the highlight of that hole.  It was, my second shot just worked out absolutely perfectly.  Tried to hit a spinning 5-wood, so I would take some yardage off it, and pitched perfectly and just rolled out to a couple feet.  So extremely happy about that one.   
 Q.  Considering your afternoon tee time and you got out there and you know there are some guys shooting low, how important for you to get off to that birdie, birdie start and put a good score up early?  
JONAS BLIXT: You're right on point.  You see those guys just 7-under and 8- or 9-under or whatever, and it's not an easy golf course.  And it was, I was pretty impressed.  You just got to go after it kind of when you see that.  And luckily I did.   
 Q.  Were you aggressive for the sake of being aggressive?  
JONAS BLIXT: I think I play better when I'm aggressive, so I guess it kind of helped me when I saw those scores up there.   
 Q.  To get a sense for you how the greens were rolling this afternoon, obviously this morning they rolled pretty nice; this afternoon, how did you feel they rolled?  
JONAS BLIXT: I think we were like the second group off and they were still rolling really good.  They were getting it -- I won't say they're crusty yet, not at all, but they're good right now.  Really good.   
 Q.  When someone puts up a big number in round one, for tomorrow, is that something you have to put out of your mind?  
JONAS BLIXT: No, I enjoy it.  You got to kind of go after it and kind of chase it.  So, I mean, Jason is a really, really good golf player, so you just got to try to do whatever you can to catch him.   
 Q.  You're in the afternoon group, so you have to accept that there's going to be some wind and it's going to be harder, right?  
JONAS BLIXT: Living here, you always get kind of windy around here and usually the other way around.  So it's kind of a little bit of an adjustment, but it's kind of normal winds.   
 Q.  Considering that you didn't get that early wave, do you feel in a good position right now sitting at 5-under, knowing that you had to face some tougher conditions?  
JONAS BLIXT: I don't ever think about if it was tougher conditions or not.  It was -- we all play one morning round and one afternoon round.  So I just got to kind of go out there tomorrow morning and try and make a lot of birdies, because I know the guys who are in the lead and right behind them, they're going to make a bunch of birdies in the afternoon.  So just, it's fun.  It's a golf tournament, you just got to chase it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT