AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 13, 2016
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great playing out there.  A good solid second nine there as well.  What was the key to your round?  
JONAS BLIXT: I haven't analyzed anything yet.  I took advantage of my opportunities today.   
It was a little hard on the front with the wind kind of swirling, and we weren't sure where the wind was coming from.  So we kind of picked a couple bad clubs and just had to scramble a little bit on the front.   
Then in the trees it got a little calmer.  We picked a lot better clubs and I got a lot of good opportunities to make birdies and took advantage of a lot of them.   
 Q.  Spyglass is often one of the more difficult courses in the rotation, especially when the wind's swirling like this.  What do you think makes it challenging and how were you able to approach it today?  
JONAS BLIXT: I almost feel like all these golf courses are the same difficulty level.  Maybe there's, there might be one shot harder, this golf course.  It's not as open as the other three golf courses or two golf courses.   
I grew up on one of these golf courses, so I can a kind of like coming back here.  I enjoy it here.  Yeah, in the trees a little more you got to hit the fairways and it gets a little windy and gusty sometimes in the trees.  And we got it down on the, down by the water today and picked a couple wrong clubs.  So you got to kind of, when that happens, you got to have a good short game to save yourself.  And I was able to do that today.   
 Q.  What's the name of the golf course you grew up on?  
JONAS BLIXT: Hammaro.   
 Q.  How do you spell that?  
JONAS BLIXT: H A M M A R O.   
 Q.  What's so similar about it?  Just kind of the layout the trees?  
JONAS BLIXT: Yeah, it's a tree-lined golf course and we have, I would say, three or four holes that are kind of open.  So it's kind of like here.  The first four or five holes are open and down here and then it goes into the trees.  You don't really see any of the other holes as you're playing it.   
It's kind of the same thing here.  It's quite tight.  It's a very solid golf course.  It's not super long like this one, but it's -- the technical level of it, it's there.  You just got to make sure your ball is in play.  Not necessarily the rough is too bad, like here, but you can always kind of save yourself.  But it's very close.  It's a big resemblance to where I grew up on.   
 Q.  Were you watching the leaderboard and do you know where you stand or was it just play well today and see where you stand tomorrow?  
JONAS BLIXT: There's no leaderboards on this golf course so it's kind of hard.   
 Q.  Did you feel like you were trying to get a few more birdies just to get yourself a bit later of a tee time tomorrow at Pebble?  
JONAS BLIXT: No, I was swinging well.  And I was just, this golf course, these golf courses are more about trying to make as many birdies as you can.   
I think they, the greens, are a little firmer this year compared to other years.  But the ball rolls a little better on the greens compared to other years.  But I think the firmness of the greens, if you miss or if you play a more strategic game than you usually do here, where you can attack the pins a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT