FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 30, 2016
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The difference between the last two days and Thursday?  
JONAS BLIXT: An inch closer to the ball.  That's it.   
 Q.  Did you just figure that out?  
JONAS BLIXT: No, we have been working pretty hard with it.  My swing coach and I were working on it this off season, and I was hitting it pretty good going into the first couple of tournaments.  And I hit it well last week and was kind of off on Thursday and it was kind of weird.  And I just hit a couple golf balls at the driving range and figured it out.   
 Q.  Talk about the shift of emotion that you've gone through from Thursday, I'm assuming being frustrated with the 77, to today where you're in contention now to win this event.  
JONAS BLIXT: I don't know, it's just a process.  I feel like I've been -- I'm getting and better, been doing the right things every day to play better, and I'm feeling really good about my game, I'm feeling really good about my Cobra equipment, and I'm really excited about this year.  Really, really am.   
And I felt like there was a low score out there on the South Course.  I shot low here before on the South Course and figured maybe I can have one of those rounds today and hopefully one tomorrow.  We'll see what happens.   
 Q.  You say you feel good about your year.  Do you feel good about tomorrow after what you've done the last two days?  
JONAS BLIXT: Oh, yeah, absolutely.  No, I feel like the swing is where it's supposed to be, I'm putting good and I'm excited about tomorrow.   
 Q.  7-under par through three rounds.  Talk about your play the last couple of days comparatively to the first round and where you stand going into the final round.  
JONAS BLIXT: Yeah, the first day wasn't very good at all.  We figured out afterwards I was standing a little too far from the golf ball and just tightened things up a little bit and things have worked out pretty well.   
 Q.  Is Jorge here?  Did you send him a video?  
JONAS BLIXT: Jorge is here.  Yeah, he's with me for two weeks.   
 Q.  What kind of shots did that produce when you were too far away?  
JONAS BLIXT: It was going left a lot.  So, I hit a couple good and then a bunch left and then high rights with my driver.   
 Q.  Was your attitude yesterday nothing to lose or were you really thinking, hey, I can make the cut.  Obviously you did on the number, but what was your thought going out?  
JONAS BLIXT: Yeah, it wasn't very exciting after the first round.  But I feel like my golf game got so much better during this off season, with all the small changes we made.   
And also Cobra helped me out with starting maybe a little earlier getting into the new equipment for the year.  I feel really good about the equipment and the small changes and I felt like I was really close to playing really well.  It was maybe a little earlier than I thought, but I'm just really excited about this year.   
 Q.  What was going on, you had a stretch there with a lot of missed putts, what was the situation there?  
JONAS BLIXT: It happens.  It's professional golf.  It's up-and-down.  Last year wasn't very good at all.  It was quite disappointing.  I was one shot from not being here.  So, yeah, it was quite rough last year.  So I worked pretty hard this off season to make sure that I'm not in that same position this year.   
 Q.  How rough was it?  How bad did it get for you?  
JONAS BLIXT: Golf wise?  Oh, I mean, I'm doing -- I got the best job in the world, in my opinion.  But when you keep playing bad, when have you a bad day at work, and it's every day, I mean, you're trying new stuff and it's pretty much seven months of bad, just bad days, it gets to you.  It's hard to see the positives sometimes.   
But I tried to stay positive and at the end of the year I kind of got a little bit, I don't remember what it was, but I got a little more positive and kind of saw my last chance to keep my card and I did.  And that was kind of a relief.  I don't know if that was why I missed five cuts in the end of the year, but I'm just very happy about the way I finished.   
 Q.  Was there a lowest point?  Was there any tournament or moment when you remember it being the worst?  
JONAS BLIXT: Tampa, I think.  I was not devastated, but I was just -- it was just not fun playing.  Nothing worked out.  I tried so many things for so many months and it just never worked.   
Then I think it was in Dallas Jorge came out and we changed my grip a little bit and I started getting better.  I made a cut there and started feeling better.   
I went back home to see some family and do stuff like that, and then I finished top-10 there, I think.  And then that kind of got me going a little bit.  I think that kind of made a difference.   
 Q.  What were the small changes you said that you worked on this off season that kind of turned your game around?  
JONAS BLIXT: Getting closer to the golf ball.  Getting my hands a little more closer to my body, a little more relaxed over the ball.   
A lot with my balance, like I've been -- I got my balance on my toes a lot last year and now I'm kind of, with this new mat system we saw where I transferred my weight and it helped a lot.  So not only getting behind the ball better, get a little more room, get closer to the ball, and just hit a lot more solid shots.   
 Q.  Sounds like fundamentals.  
JONAS BLIXT: Yeah, absolutely.  I believe that a good golf swing starts from your balance, and I just didn't have the balance to produce a good golf swing.   
 Q.  You and Freddie were hanging out on 18 watching David try to finish it off.  Kind of sitting there man, I wish it were me, I want to be in that position, thoughts like that?  
JONAS BLIXT: I mean, you play to be in that position, absolutely, but when you have a friend of yours that's in that position, you're just pulling for him.  You want him to win.  And I think he feels the same way with me if I'm going in contention tomorrow.  So, you don't get too many chances to win on this TOUR, and when you do, you really got to try to get it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT