FRYS.COM OPEN
October 16, 2015
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under par 68.  Obviously the golf course played well for you?  
JONAS BLIXT: Yeah, the golf course is in great shape.  I feel like I've been doing the right stuff through the off-season.   
Can't say the driver was working as well as in the off-season.  Got to get that one in shape tomorrow.   
 Q.  Looked like the greens were starting to really speed up out there.  Were you seeing that as well?  
JONAS BLIXT: Felt a bit quicker in the afternoon yesterday.  They're really true, really good.  I remember last year they were a little bumpy at times.  This year we really haven't had any problems with them yet.   
I mean, I think the whole golf course they've done a great job with.   
 Q.  You had a few weeks off.  What did you work on prior to coming back out here?  
JONAS BLIXT: I just told me caddie.  There was a bunch of stuff.  We wrote everything down.  I'm going to go back and kind of check it off.   
Everything from the swing technique to chipping to wedge shots to everything else.  Just trying to go into the season with a different mindset than I did last year.  Get myself in the position that I was in going into the last couple events last season.   
So hopefully I can build on this and play well this week.   
 Q.  You're a winner of this event - not at this venue - but does that still give you a little boost when you come back?  
JONAS BLIXT: You know, I mean, it's a completely different event in that aspect, different golf course.  But Fry's, the Fry's brothers, they put on such a great event, everything from the food to the wine to the hospitality.   
You know, the weather here in Napa.  I mean, they really go a great event.  I don't know if it can be beaten on tour.  It's awesome.   
 Q.  Speaking of wine, have you had a chance to go to any wineries since you've been here?  
JONAS BLIXT: No.  I tried a little bit, but I'm trying to stay focused and be on track for this year.  Maybe a drink and then spit it out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT