WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2015
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How would you assess your Sunday?  
JONAS BLIXT: I played well, good up to 15, the second shot. I felt like I was -- you know, had controlling the ball very well and had a bunch of great chances, didn't make any of them.   
Made the one on 13 and really felt like I can maybe make a couple on last couple holes and birdied 14 and then that second shot was turning all around. Went from trying to win a golf tournament to just keep your card.   
It's a lot of -- I know there was a lot at stake today. Somebody would have told me I would place Top-10 in this tournament I would have taken it anytime last week. So you're considering how well I played the -- before 15 and ultimately not so.  
   
 Q. Do you feel like you've rounded into better form now with the FedExCup Playoffs? How does that feel?  
JONAS BLIXT: It's a big heavy burden taken off my shoulders right now. So, it's been a rough year, been a long year, lot of searching and I feel like I'm doing the right things again and the ball is going where I want it to go and really excited about it.  
   
 Q. What have you learned from this?  
JONAS BLIXT: The thing when you play well I feel like I want to get up there, I'm chasing it. It was just, you know, that second shot on 15 just turned your head inside out and I think that shot on 16, sad it's on TV. Yeah, it was just weird.  
   
 Q. Weren't you in kind of the same situation a couple years ago here you had to play your way in?  
JONAS BLIXT: I was coming off injury and I played this tournament just before the FedExCup. It was like 2, 3 months.  
   
 Q. Then it seemed like you played into some of The Playoffs. I seem to remember talking to you about that.  
JONAS BLIXT: Yes.  
   
 Q. What does it feel like to accomplish this, to get your way into The Playoffs?  
JONAS BLIXT: It's a big burden taken off my -- I mean -- I can't tell you how much -- we worked on this, my team and I and just kind of rallied the last part of the year because it feels really, really good to be able to play well again and hopefully I can make a little run at it in The Playoffs.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT