WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2015
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Made a good move up the leaderboard today. Bear in mind the pressures that you're under this week, how good is that 62 today?
JONAS BLIXT: It's pretty good right now. I know what I need to do this week and I feel like I've been playing good the last two months so it's nice to get this.

Q. Let's look at one of your highlights here. The putter seemed to be working really well with you. Go through this one on 9.
JONAS BLIXT: I knew it was going to be fast down the hill. When I first hit it I thought it needed to go, and then it started to picking up speed. Probably a few feet by.

Q. You said you've been playing well. What's the big difference this week?
JONAS BLIXT: I think start of the year didn't drive it well enough. Playing out of the rough it's harder to score and miss a lot of cuts. That's what I did.
Last part of the year, just been driving it a lot better. Good 3-wood in my bag that I can trust and that's what has been working out pretty well. 

Q. Big question going into tomorrow looks like you're going to have a chance to win this tournament. You have other agendas as well. You're playing for next year. 
Is tomorrow about winning the tournament or just getting the job done for security?
JONAS BLIXT: Well, you know, going into this week I would be very pleased if I secured my job. A win will take care of that. Shoot another 62 I should have a good chance.

Q. Best of luck tomorrow.
JONAS BLIXT: Thank you.

Q. Fantastic job, Jonas Blixt, on a Saturday here in Greensboro, 62. What was going so well for you today, Jonas?
JONAS BLIXT: I think I've been hitting the ball pretty well the first few days, just the putter, just made a couple good putts and was able to get it close a couple times and take advantage of it.
Yeah, that's it. You know, when you play well everything is simple. When you play bad everything is so hard.

Q. Were you watching the leaderboard at all? Did you know you were tied with Tiger as soon as he teed off and then you're leading him now?
JONAS BLIXT: Yeah. I liked where I was tied for 1st and Tiger made birdie on the 1st so I slid into 2nd. I wasn't happy about that. That's why I had to make more. No, I'm just kidding. 
I teed off so early today and so many players out there, so I'm thinking I'm probably going to be like 5th spot coming into tomorrow and try to make a charge up the leaderboard tomorrow as well.

Q. You came here kind of needing a good week for the FedExCup. Can you talk a little bit about that?
JONAS BLIXT: Yeah. That's the fun part about this job when you play for your living and you don't whether you'll have a job next year or not. It's trying to be relaxed as much as possible and make as many birdies as possible, play very aggressive and try to be okay with all the results and what happens. 
It's been working so far.

Q. Was there a moment out there today where you kind of knew you were in a good place?
JONAS BLIXT: I'm always in a good place (laughter).

Q. You were in a good group.
JONAS BLIXT: You know, I had a lot of fun with Gonzalo. He's just such a gentleman. We kind of fed off each other a little bit. When I got a couple -- both a bonus on the 1st and kind of had two easy ones, was it 4 and 5, kind of feathered them, just had chances all day and I don't know how many greens I hit but I feel like I hit a bunch of them and gave myself a lot of looks and the putter work really well.

Q. Your confidence is high going into the final round tomorrow?
JONAS BLIXT: Yeah. I've been hitting the ball the last two months and haven't gotten the putter going the first month. Last month I've been putting it pretty well. If I can keep the same mindset for tomorrow I think I'm in a very good playing.

Q. Playing in the last group, how does that make you feel, do you get nervous at an event like that that you find yourself in the last group or exciting?
JONAS BLIXT: I don't get nervous that much anymore. You get excited. I get a little jumpy and definitely staying off the Mountain Dew tomorrow morning. But, I think if I can keep the same mindset I have right now and kind of calm and collected, hopefully I can go out and shoot a good score and make a couple putts and we'll see what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT