BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2014
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SARAH GWYNN:   Jonas, thanks very much for joining us today.   Your first time at Wentworth, if you can just give us your first impressions so far.  
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, I got in‑‑ well, my flight was delayed and stuff like that, so I just got in last night.   I had really no clue what was going on but it looks really nice on the practice area and everybody is very nice over here and enjoying it so far.   
SARAH GWYNN:   You're known for your big performances on the big stage with three great finishes in the major championships so far.   This is another big stage.   Are you ready to show Europe what you can do?   
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, I feel like a took a couple of weeks in the States and I had some issues that I had to address, and I finally did it last week, and I hope that it can carry over and play really well over here.   
   
 Q.   What sort of swing issues?   
JONAS BLIXT:   Just minor faults in my swing where I couldn't get my tee shots where I wanted them to be.   Felt like I adjusted pretty well last week and hope I get to hit a lot more second shots out of the fairways.  
   
 Q.   Expectations this week?  
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, I think everybody that's here expects themselves to be in contention, coming Sunday, and then you can see, I mean, if you can be in contention on the back nine, then you all have a chance.   That's where I want to be.   
   
 Q.   What have the other European players told you about this championship and the course itself?   
JONAS BLIXT:   They scared me a lot (laughter).   No, they haven't really said anything to be honest with you.   I asked two players and the answers I got out of them, they said it's a great championship and everything is kind of set up like the States.   The golf course is always a little different with the bermudagrass and stuff like that.   I really can't tell you yet.   I'm about to tee off here after this.   
   
 Q.   But when you look at the players who are playing here, this is the creme of Europe playing for a major tournament of the year for European golf, it's an exciting adventure for you.   
JONAS BLIXT:   Absolutely, this is where you want to be.   As a European growing up in Europe, you always want to play the greatest events, and this is definitely‑‑ outside Majors, this is the biggest one.   
So obviously this is going to be a great week.   I've been looking forward to coming back to Europe for a while, and it's just great when the summer comes here and the weather is great and the temperature is awesome.   It's always fun to come back to Europe.   
   
 Q.   I think I'm right in saying this will be your fifth event this year, which counts towards European Tour Membership.   Have you got as far ahead as thinking with The Ryder Cup in mind, do you go as far ahead as planning to get to 13, what events you'll play?  
JONAS BLIXT:   It's tight when you play two tours, absolutely.   My schedule is pretty much set for the rest of the year.   It was set pretty much in beginning of January.   Unless I get hurt or anything like that, I'm planning on playing.  
And I don't really plan ahead so far before.   It's a little different.   Sometimes you feel like you get almost a little bit too much rest, but you need some rest at times.   It's paid off at times, but no, I'm looking forward to this kind of stretch now where we really get into the big events, final back and forth between the two continents, and now this is what I always dreamed about doing, so I'm really looking forward.   
   
 Q.   I presume you're playing next week in Sweden?   
JONAS BLIXT:   Yes, I am.  
   
 Q.   Aside from that one and all the majors and WGCs all count, do you know which regular Tour events you're playing?  
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, I'm not sure if I'm supposed to   ‑‑  
   
 Q.   It's all right.   I won't tell.   
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, you guys don't write for papers.   
Right now I know I'm going to play Scottish Open, British Open.   Those I can for sure tell you 100 per cent I'm going to play.   I'm not sure if I'm playing Germany or not.   I'm a defending champion at the Greenbrier.   I want to go back to that.   It's always a special week when you've won somewhere.   
So no, I have some rest weeks, but I also have a lot of playing weeks coming up.   So can't really tell you too much (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You said you planned your schedule in January.   Did you plan your schedule with The Ryder Cup in mind, or has it changed?  
JONAS BLIXT:   No, hasn't changed at all.   Obviously you kind of want to, considering The Ryder Cup, you want to play a little more tournaments over here, absolutely.   
I haven't changed it up‑‑ I'm considering doing it after what I did at Augusta, but it's actually something that I have to talk to my manager a little bit and decide what I'm going to do.  
But yeah, I feel like my schedule is pretty full now.   I'm taking a week‑‑ I had a week off before this just to kind of gear up and get my mind ready for this.   I haven't really performed in the big events over here and I hope that's going to be enough.  
   
 Q.   Do you see yourself adding to it if you get close to the mark?   
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, if I'm on the brink of maybe making one of the spots off the Money List or the World Ranking list, absolutely.   
   
 Q.   We were talking earlier about how great a championship this is.   Do you have any special memories from childhood watching the tournament on TV and maybe some of the great names you've seen?   
JONAS BLIXT:   To be honest with you, as a kid I watched a lot more ice hockey than I watched golf.   My dad has probably watched a lot more than I have.   
The name Wentworth, it's always been special to any kind of golfer that does this for a living or likes golf a lot.   So I'm really looking forward just to playing the golf course this afternoon.   
Not really any memories.   I remember some of the holes, but I know Ernie re‑designed it a couple years ago, and I haven't seen any of the changes yet.   I saw a couple‑‑ watched the golf last year, it was really cold here.   
   
 Q.   You said you've added The Scottish Open to your schedule.   Just wonder if you know much about the Royal Aberdeen course and what the reasons were for adding that one in the week before The Open?   
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, I played the Scottish Amateur there, I don't know what year, like 2007, something like that, and all I remember was the first tee shot is beautiful, looking over the Northern Sea.   It's a tough golf course, very linksy, and that's very good coming into the British Open.   And just to get acclimated to the links style, the weather and stuff like that, and of course, it's a brilliant golf course.   
It's an exciting time of the year, to play those tournaments, links golf is always so much different.   Looking forward to it.   
   
 Q.   How much did Augusta do for your confidence, having that fantastic battle with Jordan Spieth?   The two of you looked like you might do it but then you were both pipped.   What are your memories of that?   
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, you know, it's such a special place.   It kind of feels like you're walking around in a dream walking around there, especially being in contention.   I knew he was a couple of shots ahead of me ‑‑ really just being there and trying to beat him.   And for myself, my confidence, I think I've gained a lot of confidence after that.  
   
 Q.   Would you like to play Jordan again in The Ryder Cup?  
JONAS BLIXT:   I have some favourites but I'm not going to reveal (smiling).   
   
 Q.   With how difficult it is for first timers to perform in the Masters, playing for the green jacket, looking back are you surprised?  
JONAS BLIXT:   I played two weeks before the tournament and I felt very confident about the place.   Really suited my eye.   It's really the only tournament I actually follow if I'm not playing it, and you kind of know the shots before you get there, and you know what the ball is going to do.   
No, you play against these players, like I said, from the Nordea Masters, I've been able to play the big championships and contend with some of the best players in the world.   So it wasn't really‑‑ too surprised knowing I really liked the golf course.  
   
 Q.   It's not as tough as they say?   
JONAS BLIXT:   Like to see you play there (laughter).   
   
 Q.   No, for you‑‑  
JONAS BLIXT:   I would say that, you know, it's‑‑ oh‑‑ no, I like the golf course, it's set up for like if you really get your short game in shape, you should do pretty well there.   I don't feel like I have to be too perfect, like off the tee, it's a second‑shot golf course and if you miss, you really have to use your imagination to get up‑and‑down.   It's a tough golf course, absolutely, it's very tough.   But you know, sometimes you have those weeks and when you play really well, and that was one of them.   
   
 Q.   Do you find yourself inspired by the captain, playing so much around the world for The Ryder Cup?   
JONAS BLIXT:   I'm trying to get a hold of him.   We were supposed to meet at Sawgrass.   We never got a chance to do it there.   We were supposed to meet this past Monday but our flights were delayed, so I got here a day later and I missed him there.   
Hopefully I get to meet him this week.   When I've spoken to him, he seems like a great captain and a great guy.   No, I would love to play for him.   
SARAH GWYNN:   Thanks, Jonas, good luck this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT