MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JONAS BLIXT:   I think I drove it a lot better today.   I gave myself a lot more chances to attack the pins.   Got a little quick with my irons and some irons wasn't as good as they were the first couple three days.   Yeah, didn't get close enough to the pins to make enough birdies and I put pressure on him in front.   But still pretty happy about my performance today and it's something to really build on.   Yeah, no, great mindset, just got a little quick on the irons.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JONAS BLIXT:   It's pretty obvious.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Just talk about the experience of being in the hunt on the back nine at the Masters.   
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, I talked about it all week, you really get to know who you are.   It's different feelings springing up in your body that you never felt before.   I was happy I had the experience of the PGA last year and really being in contention.   That really helped me today, I think.   
I think I hit a lot more, a lot better shots today except for maybe the last two holes, but except for that, I felt like I could still a being at that time pin pretty good and I just didn't get the breaks that I needed to, in order to really threaten Bubba.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JONAS BLIXT:   I had emergency driving sessions every night.   No, it was nice to have Jorge here and really kind of felt like he fixed a couple things, some of my aim and the way I hit it.   So it gave me a little sense of being a little more comfortable today over the tee shots.   
   
 Q.   You described the PGA success as sort of a building block.   Talk about this being a building block going forward for you.   
JONAS BLIXT:   The PGA I was almost a little scared.   You know you got to be aggressive, but there's so many things that you get nervous, you get excited, you get ‑‑ it's just out of body kind of experience a little bit.   
Today I felt like that helped me a lot and I could stay myself and stay, I know it's a cliche, but play a shot by shot a lot more, instead of getting ahead of yourself and seeing what could happen.   
If I can build on that and get better every time, then hopefully one day I can also have a Green Jacket.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT