MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon.   Like to welcome Jonas Blixt, his third consecutive major, he shot 1‑under par today 71 to finish in joint second. 
Going to open it up to your comments on the round. 
JONAS BLIXT:   I had a‑‑ kind of lost for words here.   It was a great day.   I played decently.   Hit my driver a lot better, just didn't get my approaches as close as I wanted and didn't give myself enough opportunities to make birdies. 
Overall, a decent round, and when you shoot under par at Augusta National on a Sunday, you should be pretty happy. 
Now, Bubba Watson played better.   I got beat, and he deserves to win.   I congratulate him for that.   But I learned a lot today, and have a lot more new experiences and can't wait to come back. 

Q.   What did you learn?
JONAS BLIXT:   I think I got a little quick.   That's about it.   I think I had a pretty good mind‑set out there and I really tried to make birdies, but I tried a little bit too hard at times.   I don't feel like the moment really got to me, but there was a couple good swings there that were a little quick and just didn't execute it as good as I wanted to. 

Q.   So much was made all week of the first‑timers, the 24 first‑timers, and now two of you wind up tied for second place.   What kind of a statement does that make? 
JONAS BLIXT:   I don't know.   You should ask the media that.   There was a bunch of us first‑timers in the field, and the percentage ‑‑ if you look at the percentage, that might be the difference.
But you know, I think me and Jordan have kind of similar games, and I think that plays into playing well at this golf course.   It was a lot of fun to play out here.   I don't know, really. 

Q.   Does it say experience maybe is overrated here? 
JONAS BLIXT:   Absolutely not.   Absolutely not.   There's so many ridges and spots that you can't‑‑ where you can't miss it. 
Playing with Ben Crenshaw the first day, he's not long enough anymore, but he knows where to miss it and really knows where to chip it from.   I learned a lot from him.   I mean, he's still got the short game, which is really impressive and he putts it really well. 
So looking back at that, I probably would have learned a little bit more playing with him in the practice rounds or something like that.   But yeah, you learn something new at Augusta National every day, and every pin position is unique.   It's a tough test. 

Q.   You seem to have accumulated quite a record in the majors already for only having played in three.   What do you attribute your success in the toughest four tournaments so far? 
JONAS BLIXT:   I think they are a lot of fun to play (smiling).   It's really tough.   You beat your head in a little bit but you can't beat yourself up too bad.   You know, the atmosphere, there are so many people here, the excitement of being here, it just adds to the experience. 

Q.   What are the things that you've done right? 
JONAS BLIXT:   Chip and putt.

Q.   Is it that simple? 
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, it helps a lot.   I think my caddie and I have a good strategy out there, where if I get off‑line, where we can get up‑and‑down from.   Coming up here a couple weeks before and seeing where to chip‑and‑putt it from and where it miss it from, it's great. 
But, you know, I love Majors.   I love when it's tough.   It's not a shootout.   So the harder the better.

Q.   Is the Ryder Cup now very much in your thoughts?
JONAS BLIXT:   I'm probably the wrong person to answer that question, but that would be a lifelong dream to appear on one of those teams.   I'm going to do everything I can, absolutely everything, to be on that team. 
But it's up to Paul McGinley to make the decisions on that.   You know what, I'm going to do‑‑ I'm going to try to play as good as I can in order so he doesn't have a choice but to pick me.   But if I don't, I mean, I want the Europeans to win and I'll cheer ‑‑ I'll support them as much as I can, but I would love to be on that team. 

Q.   Nobody was really able to make birdies on the back nine and make any kind of run.   Were the conditions particularly tricky?   It's obviously hard on the back nine on Sunday, but nobody really was able to make a run. 
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, no, you're right.   There's a lot of tricky pins out there.   Yeah, I didn't feel like I got it close enough to the pins in order to make that many birdies.   I felt like maybe a couple breaks should have gone‑‑ could have gone another way, and then I really would have had a chance. 
But just a little bit off and not being able to get those maybe within ten feet to really make some birdies and really make a push at it.   So, I mean, it's hard to be aggressive around here, too, because if you're too aggressive, then you get out of position, then you don't have a chance at all.   So you kind of play to your spots.   But no, at least for myself, I didn't get it close enough. 

Q.   Do you feel at all pressure from Sweden after the Swedes have been very close to getting a major, and when you're in contention on a Sunday, do you feel the national pressure to get a Swedish major? 
JONAS BLIXT:   No.   I would love to be the first one.   I mean, doesn't matter if anyone else wins before me, but I would love to win a major.   That's one of my lifelong dreams. 
I hope that curse kind of ends soon.   I'm going to do as much as I can and work hard at it to end it, but no, it almost feels a little bit of a curse because we have so many good players coming through and I think it would be huge for Swedish golf and, yeah, Sweden. 
MODERATOR:   Jonas, you're heading in the right direction.   You're second in your first Masters.   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT