MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Congratulations, great start. 
JONAS BLIXT:   Thank you. 

Q.   Where were off the tee on 18?
JONAS BLIXT:   Under the crap. 

Q.   You just punched out?
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, I just punched out.

Q.   How long has it been since you had a putt lip out as cool as that one?
JONAS BLIXT:   A little heart breaker, because it was kind of moving towards the middle and at the end it turned a little left and caught the lip and went back.
You know, I made a lot of putts today, too.   So I can't really be too angry about it.

Q.   You have to be focusing on every single shot. 
JONAS BLIXT:   The golf has been harder and harder.   You have to be focusing on every single shot.   Every single shot can be the best shot of your life and every single shot can be the worst shot of your life.   So, yeah, you really have to stay focused.

Q.   Did you notice a big change from the practice rounds?
JONAS BLIXT:   Absolutely.   Night and day.   I mean, you still get some breaks out there, that you kind of knew about.   A couple of birdie putts I made today I already putted.   But you've just got to play a little more break and the speed.
But, absolutely, it's a big difference compared to Monday.

Q.   What happened on 15?   Talk about the good stuff, too. 
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, I was‑‑ I think I relaxed a little bit and I just caught it a little friendly.   That's Augusta.   It's going punish you if you don't focus.

Q.   That was a pretty extraordinary shot on 13.   Did you mean to get it right over the creek and run it back to the pin?
JONAS BLIXT:   No, I hit it really skinny.   We were really worried it was not going to carry the creek.   And when it got over the creek we kind of knew it was going to be good.
No, we did not try to hit it that low, absolutely not.   Probably lucky that I went out in the morning.   The greens were a little softer, because in the afternoon a couple of them have been over the green.

Q.   17 did you hit a 3‑wood?
JONAS BLIXT:   Off the tee? 

Q.   Yes. 
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah.   I was just happy it was in the fairway. 

Q.   Make any real long ones on the birdies?
JONAS BLIXT:   10 to 12 feet.

Q.   On what hole?
JONAS BLIXT:   5.

Q.   Birdie there is good. 
JONAS BLIXT:   Birdie on any hole is good. 

Q.   That's a tough one to miss on 18. 
JONAS BLIXT:   That was a little heartbreak, yeah, absolutely, it would have been nice to shoot until the 60s out here. 
But, you know, I made so many putts on the front.   I mean I could have easily made double on 7 and got a good break there.   And made a couple of putts just to stay in it.   Yeah, absolutely it would have been nice to be in the 60s, but I'm okay with it. 

Q.   How long was your putt on 7?
JONAS BLIXT:   Probably like 9 feet, like one of those sliders.

Q.   What's your sense of relief now?   Obviously you want to put up a good number.   You know you can do it.   You've got this under your belt now. 
JONAS BLIXT:   I just need to play smart and aggressive.   Augusta the thing is you never know what's going to happen tomorrow.   I feel like I can shoot really low out here.   And I really like the golf course the way it sets up.   But you could also have a really awful day when you catch all the bad breaks.
But, no, it's wonderful to just be here and walk around here.   It's such a great surrounding and acoustics and everything is just‑‑ it's a cool, special feeling.

Q.   Have you played with Ben before?
JONAS BLIXT:   I've never.   He's a great guy. 

Q.   Did you have a real adventure on 2?
JONAS BLIXT:   A big one, yeah. 

Q.   What happened, if you don't mind?
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, Henrik Stenson kind of jinxed it.   I'll talk to him about that later, I might challenge him in the parking lot.   I won't do that, he's way stronger than me.
We talked a little bit about the golf course.   He's been playing here a couple of times.   And you hit it left once on two, and then you won't do it again.   And I kind of thought about it today a little bit.   Told me to miss it left and I was going to miss it left.   And I got really lucky twice.   And I made par.

Q.   You played a practice round with Harrison, do you know him well?
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah.

Q.   What's your relationship with him?   He's a local guy. 
JONAS BLIXT:   He's a great guy.   He's one of the best guys.   Like you said, he's a local guy.   He's just a fantastic guy.   He's only going to get better, too.   I mean I kind of saw that he's been playing really good this year, and I kind of saw that last year.   He's just got to get that self‑confidence going.   And that's what he's got this year.   I'm really happy for him. 

Q.   3 through 9 was really a nice stretch.   What were you feeling during that five or six holes?
JONAS BLIXT:   I just got a good feeling being on the grounds.   It's a soothing feeling.   I'm just trying to get myself to make birdies.   Hit the ball on the right side of the hole and not struggle for par and just give yourself chances and not be too stressful, like No. 2 today.   And, you know, I hit a lot of good shots during that stretch and made a lot of good putts. 

Q.   How long was the putt on 3?
JONAS BLIXT:   15 feet. 

Q.   And then 6?
JONAS BLIXT:   6 was 7 feet.

Q.   8?
JONAS BLIXT:   8 was 15, 16 feet.

Q.   And then the last one on 9?
JONAS BLIXT:   It was long, it was probably 25, 30 feet. 

Q.   So in a little bit of a zone.   Ben called it a beautiful round of golf that you played.   Would you agree?
JONAS BLIXT:   Not the whole round.   I mean after the tee shot I felt like it was a good round of golf, absolutely.   It can get a little straight off the tee.   It would have been a great round of golf, absolutely.   My game is pretty good right now. 

Q.   How close were you to becoming a hockey player?
JONAS BLIXT:   13, 14, I wanted to be a hockey player.

Q.   What changed?
JONAS BLIXT:   I grew up.   I mean they work out in the summers, and I didn't, I played golf all summer.   And that made a big change.   I was probably better at hockey when I was younger than golf.   And then played golf totally.   You never know what's going to happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT