DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2013
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Excellent round of 7‑under par, was there any particular aspect of your game responsible for the good scoring? 
JONAS BLIXT:   I think I hit the ball quite well today like I did yesterday, but holed a couple more putts and got a couple of tap‑ins to make the round a little easier.   I'm very happy about the round.

Q.   I know this is your first time playing in this championship, but you had a practise round the other day with Henrik Stenson, or nine holes at least; how valuable was that, because he knows this place like the back of his hand?
JONAS BLIXT:   He told me a couple of pin positions to look out for on the back, and yeah, he definitely knows this place a little better than I do. 

Q.   Was it tricky today?   Because the golf course is quite different, they moved quite a lot of tees, and in that you are unfamiliar, was it quite tricky in that respect? 
JONAS BLIXT:   No, I think the golf course was playing the way it should be played.   There's like two or three par 5s that you can reach and make it tricky, you can make everything from a 3 to a 6 and 7.   I think it makes it a lot more fun for us players to play it and it makes it more exciting to watch.

Q.   How far up your list of goals is qualifying for The Ryder Cup Team? 
JONAS BLIXT:   Again, minus two. 

Q.   You're that keen? 
JONAS BLIXT:   Yes.   (Laughter).

Q.   Happy with that?
JONAS BLIXT:   It's been a really good day.

Q.   What made the key?   What made the difference today compared to the opening day? 
JONAS BLIXT:   Got off to a good start and then holed some putts, and I got pretty close to the pin on a couple so I could tap it in, which made it a lot easier to make birdies and eagles.

Q.   I take it made it was good playing alongside Pablo, because both of you were ripping it for a while?
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, he's such a bad guy.   You really don't want to play with him.   No, just grinded it out, and being with him‑‑ no, just kidding. 
He's a great guy and we had a lot of fun on the golf course.   I was wishing for him to make the last putt so we could play again tomorrow.

Q.   I take it you're having a lot of fun all told, playing this event for the first time. 
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, it's great to be here.   Dubai, it's a wonderful place and I never really expected it.   It's great.

Q.   Start of the year it couldn't even have been a possibility, could it?   Not much. 
JONAS BLIXT:   We'll see.   Have to talk to my agent about that. 

Q.   I mean right at the start of this year, because you wouldn't have known what you'd achieve across the year. 
JONAS BLIXT:   Oh, no; that win in the Greenbrier Classic this year just turned my whole year around and kind of jump‑started my career a little bit, too.   I wouldn't imagine being here in the beginning of the year, but I couldn't be more happier to be here.

Q.   Am I right to see to assume at that time confidence soars, as well, on the result of victory and playing in elite fields?   You obviously feel that you belong. 
JONAS BLIXT:   I think you never can be too comfortable with doing that.   You're always trying to get better because all the guys are getting better and better.   I feel more confident, comfortable on the golf course playing with those guys, and a lot more TV coverage and people walking around. 
So yeah, I think I kind of learned my lesson a little bit and I'm happy to be here.

Q.   One final thing.   I gather your preparations for this event were just a little bit different and getting out on the water? 
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, I was trying to take a day off and kind of had an adventure Monday.   Went jet‑skiing and it was perfect, the water was beautiful.

Q.   Good at it? 
JONAS BLIXT:   Jet‑skiing?   Absolutely not.   It's like my singing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT