PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2013
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JONAS BLIXT:   After that I felt pretty good about my game.   Hit some really good shots, hit a lot of good tee balls and got myself in a position to really attack the golf course and attack the lead.   I was a little far back at the time, but you never know in a major what's going to happen.   
You know, coming down the stretch, it's not‑‑ no easy holes out there and you know, got a little jittery again.   Kind of exciting to be playing there, being up there with those guys and seeing your name up there.   I think I got to get used to that a little more for the next time.   I can't wait to do it again.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JONAS BLIXT:   With a smile.   I played well this week.   And you know, I got a lot of ‑‑ I learned a lot, especially about myself and how to ‑‑ how I would react in a situation like this.   
I'm going to, you know, go back and analyze it a little more and see if I can do better next time.   
   
 Q.   Plans for the rest of the year?   
JONAS BLIXT:   I think I've got week off now and then we've got the FedExCup playoffs.   This part of the year is just really exciting to be a golf player.   You have got so many good events.   It's nice to be playing pretty good coming into them.   Very excited about that.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JONAS BLIXT:   It was awesome.   I mean, I tried to push him.   When he made a good putt, I mean, I would‑‑ you would say, Come on, let's go.   Push each other a little more.   
So it was a great day.   You don't want to get in his face too much.   You know, you have your own game plan.   Usually you have your own way of moving and how you act on the golf course.   You don't want to get too much in there and pressing.   Next time maybe.  
   
 Q.   Was it terribly disappointing to find yourself down by five thirty minutes after you started with the two bogeys there?  
JONAS BLIXT:   I mean, it wasn't the best start.   Still felt there was a lot more holes to go and I can make a lot of birdies.   I mean, if you hit it in the fairways, you can definitely attack the pins here and get after it a little bit.   
I felt like I made a couple of birdies today.   Made too many bogeys.   But overall, it was a learning experience and it was a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JONAS BLIXT:   No, I wouldn't say that.   I didn't feel any nerves on No. 2.   I was nervous on the first tee shot.   Then after that I just misjudged the greens a little bit on the two chips.   The greens were a lot firmer today than they have been through the week.   They kind ran out a little bit.   
I hit a good putt on 1, just missed it.   
No. 2, I completely misjudged it, the chip shot.   
Kind of pretty happy about the game after that up to, you know, the last few holes.   Just really tough holes coming in here.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JONAS BLIXT:   I think I felt like it did today.   There was a lot more hype, a lot more media, a lot more people.   So definitely, I mean, it was like I would compare it to the first time I was in contention in a PGA Tour event.   You get jittery.   You get very excited about where you are and you know, it's a lot of fun to contend.   But I feel like this was a new stage a little bit.   And I mean, if I could handle the first part when I was in contention hopefully then I can probably handle this a little better next time.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JONAS BLIXT:   I mean, you have so many expectations on yourself and then you build it up with‑‑ it's a little bit of both, I guess.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah.   Oh, yeah.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JONAS BLIXT:   I mean, I'm still human and I still have feelings.   I definitely felt them today.   
Next time I try to control them a little better and I know I'm going to control them better.   I know I got better the beginning of my career out on the PGA Tour.   I can't wait to get back.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT