DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2012
Jonas Blixt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   69th in the FedExCup points standings after a final round 68 here at TPC Boston.   What will you do the next few hours?
JONAS BLIXT:   Try not to watch the TV.   I don't know really.   Sweat it out. 

Q.   Did you know where you stood as you made your way through the back nine?
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, I tried not to watch the TVs and stuff like that, but I caught a glimpse at 15, I think, and I saw I was just outside, and then I birdied 15.   I thought I had a pretty good chance of being inside.   I still felt like I needed to make birdie at 18. 

Q.   You had to make a par putt on Sunday last week at the Barclays to advance here to TPC Boston, and right now you're 69th in the standings after a 68.   You say you like to play within yourself and not check out the leaderboard or your position, but it was tough to do on that back nine, right? 
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, your eyes just doesn't do always what you want them to do.   I caught a glimpse of it, and I saw I was right on the number.

Q.   You're close, you're not solidified to move on.   What are you going to do over the next few moments, hours to find out what your fate is going to be?
JONAS BLIXT:   I don't know, pray.   Go scream or something, I don't know. 

Q.   How do you feel?
JONAS BLIXT:   Terrible.   It was awful.   It's almost the worst position ever.   It's a little nerve wracking.   At least I played a good round today and I can be happy about that.   I'll look at it in a positive way and keep my fingers crossed the next couple hours.

Q.   You sound a little nervous right now.   Are you feeling a little pressure right now?
JONAS BLIXT:   Just more nervous about the TV than my actual playing golf.   Yeah, we'll see what happens.

Q.   That was a great birdie at 17, and you reacted like you knew that maybe you moved inside the top 70.   Did you at the time that rolled in?
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, I caught a glimpse on 15 or 16 and saw I was just outside.   I thought I needed to make at least two birdies.   If I made two birdies I thought I would be in for sure, maybe one I might have a chance.   I made one at 17, and then you can always go for the green in two on 18, and I thought maybe we can get lucky and make another birdie.   It was a huge birdie on 17 for me. 

Q.   So what is the wait going to be like now?   What are you going to do over the next few hours?
JONAS BLIXT:   I have no clue.   Sign a couple of autographs, try to think about something else.   Yeah, pray, do something.   I don't know.

Q.   You're playing well, though.   After a mid‑season injury, you're coming back, and I saw you at Wyndham, you're striking it well.   That's got to be a real confidence booster. 
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah, it was nice coming back and playing all right.   I make some stupid mistakes sometimes in my opinion, but at least I'm here, and I've got an opportunity to move on to the third round of the Playoffs.   I see that as a very positive thing. 

Q.   You said it was a playoff mustache.   Did you start it before Barclays?
JONAS BLIXT:   I needed to grow it, so I started off a little earlier.   It kind of worked out a little better than I thought.   Yeah, it's been growing in so far.

Q.   When did you start it?
JONAS BLIXT:   Like a week before, like pretty much the week of the Wyndham.

Q.   Is that a hockey thing?
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah.   Well, I played hockey growing up, so I thought it was kind of a fun thing to do. 

Q.   Is the harder now to be outside the ropes?
JONAS BLIXT:   Oh, you can't do anything about it.   That's the worst part.   You want to be there and compete and‑‑ it was easier to be on 18 and trying to make birdie than standing here and getting asked questions what are you going to do the next few hours.   I have no clue.

Q.   Compare the emotions of making that putt at 17 and watching this one lip out here. 
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, I knew I still had a chance.   But 17 was huge because I thought I needed two birdies coming in, so I absolutely needed to make a birdie on 17, so that was‑‑ I was a little pumped when I got in a one.   At 18 I thought I had a good chance to make birdie.   It lips out, my heart drops a little bit.   It was one of those feelings, especially when you think you hit a good putt, and you're watching it, it's going the way you want it, and then it just stops.

Q.   Were you thinking you were done then? 
JONAS BLIXT:   I had a feeling I was done, yeah.   Yeah, I was a little‑‑ I don't know how to say it in English.   It was awful.   It was really awful.   But I still have a chance, so we'll see what happens.   I think I needed to make the putt on 18 to make it.

Q.   How much time did you have last week when you made the putt last week at Barclays as far as waiting it out?
JONAS BLIXT:   No time at all.   They came up to me and told me I made it for sure. 

Q.   Not as much drama?
JONAS BLIXT:   Yeah.   That's what it is.   I can't do much about it now.   I did everything I could, left everything out there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT