NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2005
Alicia Molik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ALICIA MOLIK: I think the difference in the third set was, I mean, the games I lost, my service percentage really dropped. Justine is a girl that always returns well. She put a few at my feet. I was slightly slow on a couple of those -- my first shots. And, you know, she broke me pretty early in that third set. The second service game that I lost in the third set, same thing. My percentage dropped. I knew she was returning well so probably went for a little bit more, when I probably should have kicked a few more in. 

ALICIA MOLIK: She, you know, she was returning well, I thought, on her backhand side especially. But, you know, as I said, my first serve percentage really did drop off. So, you know, I'm very much in control when I get those first serves in, so, yeah, probably served a few too many second serves. Gave her a look in. 

ALICIA MOLIK: You know, I don't think there was too much really in that first set - in each of them really. But the standout thing, I think, was - really forget the first two - but I think the standout thing was in the third set. I had a point to break, you know. I'd wished I'd gone for a little bit more instead of just putting the ball back deep on her backhand corner. I probably should have stepped up and gone for something big. It's not often you get an opportunity to break. It could have been 2-Love in the third. I think that was the critical moment in the match. 

ALICIA MOLIK: Oh, absolutely. Every time I've lost against Justine it's an opportunity lost, you know. The fact that she's come back, she's obviously in great form, she's not going to come back, you know, if she hasn't fully prepared. So, you know, she's playing damn good tennis. But, yeah, I definitely see it as an opportunity, you know, that I probably should have taken. But, you know, again, all these matches I'm going into against these better girls, these good players, I'm expecting to win. So, you know, when you come out -- when you come out of a match like that as I guess the person without that third set, it's very disappointing. 

ALICIA MOLIK: I think, you know, maybe, you know, next couple of matches I get those breakpoints, I've got to maybe have a little bit more time to think about them and really have a real good plan, a real assertive, aggressive plan. I feel like I'm playing well. I've got another couple weeks at Amelia and Charleston. I like the green clay. You know, it's not like it's, I guess, too disappointing, but I always try and take the positives. But, you know, again, the next couple weeks I'll try to look at my first serve percentage, be a little bit more aggressive on my returns, you know, little things like that. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT