OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 20, 2004
Alicia Molik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, I mean, I created plenty of -- I guess if I could take a positive, I created a lot of chances, I created a lot of opportunities, had that many breakpoints. Had a couple of set points. But, you know, I just probably on a couple of them just went for a little bit too much. But, you know, I wanted to go for the ball, but maybe I probably just had to hit a couple more shots back. She's pretty reluctant to step up. She just sort of rallied the ball in and hoped I missed, and I did. 

ALICIA MOLIK: I mean, I was well into the second set, as well. But I don't think the tiebreaker had much to do with it. I think the fact that I was 3-1 and serving had a lot to do with it. Probably sent down a few bombs when I should have probably just taken advantage of bad court positioning. She was probably a couple of meters behind the baseline. If I could have it again, that game, I'd probably serve her out wide a little bit more and try to get her off the court instead of, you know, serving a couple of those big ones. But, you know, in the heat of the moment you get pretty excited, and obviously I did. You know, that's probably something that I would change. 

ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, I mean, it's unusual or unique situation. I've lost today in the semifinal for the gold and the silver, but I get a chance to I guess redeem myself and back it up tomorrow. I play Myskina tomorrow. We've had some great matches. So, yeah, I mean, I'll be looking to improve today - well, actually, I'm playing today now. I'll be looking to improve today today basically (because it's after midnight). 

ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, I mean, I've been playing great. Tonight I still think I could have played, you know, quite a bit better. You know, obviously I'm disappointed I've lost, I'm disappointed I didn't take my chances. But I've been playing great tennis the majority of the time, almost all the time. So, again, like I said, I get a chance to come out tomorrow and play some good tennis. I mean, yeah, I'm going to go into especially the US Open with, you know, a whole heap of confidence. 

ALICIA MOLIK: Oh, absolutely. I mean, I didn't play tonight to be playing off a bronze. I played tonight to be playing for gold or silver. I tried my guts out. I tried my hardest. Not everything went my way. I wasn't a hundred percent en song like I'd been the other days. I tried as hard as I could, and I didn't pull it off. What can I do now? I guess just take the positives and try to improve on that tomorrow. I think I'm a pretty positive person and I'm pretty good at dealing with situations like this. I'm sure I'll come out tomorrow and play some great tennis. 

ALICIA MOLIK: Well, probably Sunday, the day after we play tomorrow. Yeah, head there. I'm actually heading to New Haven, possibly play doubles next week. A couple of easy days before New York. So it will be great to hang around, but unfortunately for us tennis players, we've got another pretty large event not too far away. So it's pretty important that we get to America and get acclimate -- well, not so much acclimatized, but get our body en song with the time change and time difference and start preparations for the US Open, which is probably one of my favorite tournaments. The courts, the balls suit me. So I'll be looking to get there as early as I can to start my preparation. 

ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, Magui Serna. We've been playing all year, so we'll play there, which I think will be good. It will be good to maybe have a couple days off singles, get my mind off it. Play a bit of doubles. She's a good friend of mine. We have a lot of fun, too. Yeah, I guess a chance to relax and play a bit of tennis and have some fun at the same time. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT