OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 18, 2004
Alicia Molik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, God, it was a great day today. I think that's probably the best I've served in the last I think I could say 18 months today. So I think that's a really good sign. Don't have much to complain about really against today's match - in today's match. It was always going to be tough. Lisa's a great player. She can do so much at any time. So I think I played her perfectly today. 

ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, I think we've only played the once. But, you know, Ai, she runs really well. She likes to play a running game so I'll try to take that away from her a little bit more. But, I mean, I served great today. So many positives to take out of today, so I think I can go into tomorrow's match -- if I go in with the same frame of mind. You know, today I went out there. I new it would be tough. But I knew if I played more quality points than bad, I knew I'd get through with the win. I was kind of pretty comfortable out there today. Even though we were going game for game, I felt that the pressure would probably mount on her a little bit more because I was serving so well. So I think I'll, you know, go out with that same frame of mind tomorrow: relaxed and aggressive and controlled. Proved to be the winning factors today. 

ALICIA MOLIK: I've always thought about a medal. But a medal would be great. I mean, I've literally taken it one match at a time. You know, it's been a pretty full schedule. I've got my mind on doubles tonight. So I've been pretty preoccupied. I mean, one thing at a time. I've got a bit of a rest now. I've got to get up for doubles. We play the Colombians. So, you know, I want to do just as well in doubles as I am in singles. So there's a lot to work towards and there's a lot to focus on and a lot to get ready for. 

ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, I mean, I hit my ground strokes as heavy as I've hit them. I served the best I served in 18 months. I returned aggressively. I kept her at the baseline when she likes to play a chip-charge net game. I think I took away most of Lisa's strengths today. When you can do that, I think you can call it a pretty good day. 

ALICIA MOLIK: I mean, I'm winning. You're always confident when you're winning. You know, it's not so much the results, but, you know, what I've done in the middle of my matches in the, you know, crucial times, crucial stages, and the way I think I've handled pressure points in the last couple of matches - both here and in Stockholm a week ago - that's something that I've really improved on. You know, that's probably a major reason why I'm a better player now. I feel like I can produce when I need to step it up. Against these better girls, that's what you need to do. No one's ever going to lose points; you got to go out there and win them. So I've been more prepared to go out and do that now. And, yeah, that's the reason I'm producing, that's probably the reason why I'm very confident right now. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT