OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 17, 2004
Alicia Molik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How do you sum that up? 
 
 ALICIA MOLIK: Uhm, I don't think I played quite as well as yesterday. I think yesterday, because it was so windy and the conditions weren't great, I think my levels of focus were probably a little bit better and a little bit more en song yesterday. But it wasn't as windy today. I expected to come out blazing considering, you know, the conditions were so bad yesterday. But, you know, if I could start the match again I'd probably start with the same amount of focus as yesterday and I'd be prepared to hit a couple of those shots. But, you know, I think the good thing about today was I was down in the first set. I was game points -- breakpoints down. I was game points down. I was set points down. But I think in every instance I won the point and I think she lost the point. So I stepped it up at the right time today, which I think was a good sign about the match.  
 
Q. What pleased you the most? I mean, I know what you were just saying, but to break it down into the positives, what would they be? 
 
 ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, probably that when I was down, I went on to win it. I won the points. I hit winners. I was aggressive. Yeah, I really took it to her, I think. Especially the couple set points I think, I came up with a couple forehand winners and a second-serve ace as well. So, you know, it's knowing, you know -- I think it's a good sign when those pressure situations come, when you haven't been playing the best, I wasn't playing the best in the first set, and when you can step it up, which I did. I think that's a good sign and a positive sign.  
 
Q. Would you have lost that match a year, eight months ago, if you were in the same situation? 
 
 ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, definitely would have been a possible match that, yeah, finding myself maybe losing serve and getting down and getting set points down. Probably was, yeah, much more difficult for me. I don't think I -- when I used to find myself down or, you know, in those critical, crucial situations, I don't think I went out to win the point as much. I think now I think my mentality has changed a lot. I think that the girls, you know, don't give away too much. They don't give away too many free points. I think the only way to go about it, which I've found to be successful, is to go after the point, be aggressive and try and win it, which I did today. I stepped it up when I needed to. So, again, that was the positive.  
 
Q. Must be also nice to have the Australian women carrying the singles flag this time? 
 
 ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, Pratty had a good one today. I didn't actually get down for it. I was back relaxing. I've got to double up and play with Stubbsy later on tonight, we're next match on. No, but I heard it was a pretty lengthy match and she was pretty happy. We were on the text and whatnot. No, it's good for the girls. I hope we can continue with our doubles as well.  
 
Q. What about the next match against Lisa Raymond? 
 
 ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, I haven't played Lisa before. But, I mean, no doubt I've watched her play plenty of times. I've played her in doubles, so I know she plays a pretty aggressive game. I know she has fantastic volleys. She likes to get in so, you know, I'm going to try to keep her on the back of the court and not let her play what she likes to do all the time: chip and get in. You know, keep the ball low and hard and flat, that's sort of what she likes to do. Try and take that away from her a little bit, you know, not let her play her strengths so much.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT