OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 16, 2004
Alicia Molik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How was that? Tough conditions, obviously a great opponent. 
 
 ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, it was pretty horrible out there. But, I mean, we warmed up in it this morning. It's not like the wind is blowing at my end and not hers. But, I mean, as I walked out of the village today, I knew, you know, if I didn't get too frustrated and didn't let everything get to me, I thought, you know, if I held my head, I'd be fine. So, you know, it's tough. It's very easy to, you know, blame the wind and get mad and get, you know, pretty edgy out there. But I think I, you know, dealt with it pretty well today.  
 
Q. Talk about continuing the roll. 
 
 ALICIA MOLIK: Yeah, uhm, yeah, I've been in great form. Coming off I think basically perfect preparation, winning in Stockholm. I played Elena just over 12 months ago, and I think I was -- I put myself in a winning position. It was a close match. I lost. But, you know, I'm a far better player now than 12 months ago. So I knew, you know, create opportunities for myself today. It was just a matter of getting hold of the conditions, using them and my weapons and combining them, which I think I did reasonably well today.  
 
Q. You always seem to play well when representing Australia. Some of your best results, Hopman Cup, Fed Cup. Do you particularly enjoy representing Australia? 
 
 ALICIA MOLIK: Again, this is different because, you know, you're amongst other teammates as such, other sports. You know, it's always nice to have friends and teammates and familiar faces out there supporting. It is different. It definitely does help.  
 
Q. How far ahead have you looked? 
 
 ALICIA MOLIK: I haven't looked. I just heard as I was walking off the court, I play the winner of Sanchez Lorenzo and Srebotnik. I don't know when they play, but I've played both of the girls before. You know, Elena was the first hurdle. I hadn't beaten her before. Not too much reason to look ahead. But getting through that... Like I said, I've played both girls before. I know their games very well. Yeah, I mean, I think my game's going to match up pretty well against both of them, regardless of who I play.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT