AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2010
Alicia Molik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. COIN/A. Molik
  3-6, 7-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. We'll let you do the talking. Talk about the second set.
 ALICIA MOLIK: I think -- not that I think. I just started thinking about a lot of other things. Getting off the court, cooling down. What I would say at the end of the match. Who we were playing in doubles tomorrow. All the things that you shouldn't really be thinking about on the court.
 My mind slipped away for a couple minutes and that was enough to let her back in the match. I didn't even know what happened at the end of second set.
 I felt like to that point I played -- you know, not even first or second gear. Still a set and 5-2 up. That's what I was originally going to tell you guys once I had won 6-3, 6-2, that I did have a few more gears to go. But then it slipped away from me. She gained confidence. Very rookie mistake really in honesty?

 Q. How valuable a lesson is that?
 ALICIA MOLIK: You can't ask for a better lesson. On the whole I'm pretty disappointed with that. It sucks.
 But I've been in that position so many times before and done the right things. It just goes to show you can't let your guard down. Maybe you know at the level I've played at the last three or four months, there's times when maybe your mind can slip away and you still come through with the win.
 At this level, a girl like Julie Coin, you cannot. So I suffered the consequences basically, in honesty. I probably deserved it in a way.

 Q. Did you put that down to the break you've had from tennis?
 ALICIA MOLIK: No, because I've played probably 55 matches in the last maybe three and a half months. That's probably more tennis than anyone's played leading into January.

 Q. Maybe at this level.
 ALICIA MOLIK: I haven't played at this level too much. I'm 29 and I've played a lot of matches like that and served a lot of matches like that out. I should know what to do at that point in time.
 But those things happen. It's not as if I'm not going to rock up at the office tomorrow. It's disappointing, and I probably won't sleep too well tonight. But, yeah.

 Q. So what is next on the agenda for you?
 ALICIA MOLIK: Doubles tomorrow, third match on. I'm practicing 11:30 to 12:00, and then hopefully mixed doubles as well.

 Q. A partner there?
 ALICIA MOLIK: I'm playing with Meghann Shaughnessy.

 Q. And in mixed?
 ALICIA MOLIK: I'm not sure if they've done the acceptances of the draw just yet, but I hope so.

 Q. Who is your partner, though?
 ALICIA MOLIK: Matt Ebden from western Australia. He's been playing a lot of the same events as me the last couple months, too. So nice guy and a great player. Yeah, that's the way it goes unfortunately.

 Q. How long do you think it'll take you to get over it?
 ALICIA MOLIK: Oh, I don't know. I think I'm too old to waste too much energy, and I think I'm very good at, I guess, analyzing what I did and what I didn't do and absorbing that.
 It was great to have a chat with my coaches. I knew what I did and didn't do well, the positives, and I certainly knew the negatives.
 So I'll step back out on the court tomorrow and try and work on those things. Probably more so on the singles court in the next couple weeks.

 Q. Putting aside the mental lapse, what other thing do you take from the way you're playing?
 ALICIA MOLIK: As I mentioned, I felt like up until 5-2 in the second set, I was in second gear. I felt like I had three more gears to go. I felt like I was playing her smartly. She didn't like the off-pace serves and my slice. Definitely had a few more gears.
 But, um, I can't remember your question. Sorry.

 Q. Just generally, I guess, what else do you take about your game and I guess where you're at and what you need to do?
 ALICIA MOLIK: I guess the other thing I take from it is I started to play fantastic in the last five minutes: being aggressive on returns. I think doing the right things when push came to shove because I really needed to because time was running out on the clock late in the third set. But I need to keep what mentality throughout the match.
 The other thing I take is even when I was match points down and Love-40, I still didn't have a fear of losing. Still felt like I could win the match. In past years I have been a lot nervy and I didn't feel that today. I was anxious and unsure of myself.
 All of those things were in place today. It was weird, because obviously there was a big piece missing to the puzzle. Big piece.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT