SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2014
Amanda Butler
Kayla Lewis
Cassie Peoples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll take an opening comment from coach and then open it up for questions. 
COACH BUTLER:   Have to give Kentucky a lot of credit for the way they played, in particular the second half.   It was just a great SEC ballgame.   Two really good teams.   My opinion, best in the country battling the way you would expect them to play this time of year.   Unfortunately, just came up a little bit short.   Had some critical breakdowns in really timely moments. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions. 

Q.   Coach, you had success against Kentucky during the regular season.   What was the difference in this one? 
COACH BUTLER:   Second half we answered a couple times, then we just had some timely defensive breakdowns.   The rebounding battle, one of our goals is to neutralize that.   We're trying to always scratch around and make plays off the boards as much as we can.   We didn't do a good job with that. 
In the second half, that was really what was keeping them afloat.   I thought we were playing great basketball, but kept giving them second chances.   A good team's going to take advantage of that. 

Q.   Cassie, you stepped up late and hit two really big threes.   What was your mindset at that point? 
CASSIE PEOPLES:   Pretty much the same mindset I have every game:   hit open shots that I'm given.   Our team needed a little bit of spark.   I just felt that was a perfect opportunity. 

Q.   How was it inside?   Was there something they did different on you? 
KAYLA LEWIS:   I don't think there's anything they did different on me.   Kentucky is a great team.   They have a lot of people.   Not just their post players, but their guards rebound as well.   It's everybody's job when you play a team like this to rebound, not just the people inside. 
When you don't capitalize like that, you give the other team 13 more opportunities to score, which we did tonight.   I give Kentucky credit for that.   I don't think there's anything special that they did. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT