AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2013
James Duckworth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DUCKWORTH/B. Mitchell
  6‑4, 7‑6, 4‑6, 5‑7, 8‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It looked like you really had to dig deep for that one. 
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, I did.   It was a tough match.   A lot of things I had to deal with out there.   But, yeah, it's good to get through in the end.

Q.   Any mixed emotions playing an Aussie?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, well, he's tough.   Benny is one of my closest mates on tour.   We have known each other since we were about 10 or so.   We practiced together; had the same coach for the last couple years.
Yeah, I guess it's tough playing someone, you know, who you're so close to.   You want the best for them,   but at the same time you have a job to do. 
Like I said, I'm happy to get the win.

Q.   I guess at least Australia had a winner at least. 
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, exactly.   We had to do a media interview before the match, and I said then, you know, hopefully the winner goes through and wins the tournament.

Q.   Any chance of that happening, you think?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   We'll have to play a bit better.   I'm just looking forward to my next match, and hopefully I can do some damage then.

Q.   You know each other's games so well; was that a struggle?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, we have practiced together a lot, so we kind of know what each other's strengths and weaknesses are.   It was a tough battle out there.

Q.   I think the crowd started singing Advance Australia Fair towards the end of the match today.   Was that important to have the crowd on you?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, I mean, there were certain parts of the crowd that were for Benny and which were cheering for me.   It was a great atmosphere out there, and, you know, I was pretty happy to be part of it.

Q.   What did your coach say after the match?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   I haven't actually seen or spoken to him about the match yet.   He just said, Well done and just focusing on recovery.   I was out there for four‑and‑a‑half hours.

Q.   Must have been hard for him sitting there between you two. 
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   I imagine it would have been, yeah.   It was a lot of ups and downs, and, yeah, it was a long match.
You know, he's happy I got the win.

Q.   How long is your longest match in your career?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   I played a quite a long four‑setter last year which was three‑and‑a‑half hours maybe.
Other than that, I think... 

Q.   So at least by an hour long this is longer than you played before?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, yeah, I think so.

Q.   How did you react physically?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   I actually was starting to get like a few switches at the start of the third set in my legs.   But, you know, like come the fifth set I was fine.   I actually pulled up quite well afterwards.   I did a lot of training beforehand with my coaches up in Brisbane.   It was really hot up there, really humid.
So, yeah, put a lot of physical work in, and it paid off.

Q.   Can you explain what it feels like when you finally get there at the end of four‑and‑a‑half hours to get there?   Because it was a see‑sawing battle the whole way through. 
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Well, it's happiness, excitement, a bit of relief, as well.   Yeah, lots of emotions.   Yeah, right now I'm really, really stoked to be playing the second round.

Q.   I understand you guys are staying at the same hotel and have been eating meals together.   Are you going to eat together tonight?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   I will probably be here late and eat here and getting some physio treatment done, so probably not tonight.

Q.   Is that the greatest satisfaction you have had in a match, probably the biggest match you have played given the crowd and the support there?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, I mean, it's always good to win at a Grand Slam.   On the other hand, you know, I still kind of feel for Benny.   He's a good mate of mine and he's pretty disappointed.   So, yeah, it's a good feeling, but I still feel for him.

Q.   Obviously since he walked off the court, have you two caught up?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Just in the locker room together.   Not much was said; not much to be said.

Q.   On paper it opens up things a little bit more for you; is that how you see it?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, I guess.   Kavcic though is still quite a good player.   I practiced with him a few times.   Solid baseliner.   Doesn't miss much.   Doesn't give you much. 
Yeah, it's going to be a tough match. 

Q.   It's going to be pretty hot on Thursday; how will you handle that?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   I actually like playing in the heat.   You know, I'm used to it, you know, playing here in Australia a lot, and training, like I said, in hot conditions in Brisbane. 
Also helps with my serve a bit.   Probably going through the air a bit quicker, so, yeah, looking forward to playing on a hot day.

Q.   Is it a unique feeling when the crowds start quacking?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, I guess not many people get quacks from the crowd.   Like I said, it was a great atmosphere, and something I feel privileged to be part of.

Q.   Pat Rafter was out watching.   Is it part of their sort of Davis Cup audition?   Would you like to get a gig in the next month?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, for sure.   It would be great for Davis Cup.   It's one of my dreams.
I went to the tie in Germany.   I was the fifth player when we lost to Germany in a bit of a heartbreaker. 
Yeah, it was on my first time being there and being amongst, you know, the group for the week.   Yeah, it was great fun.   Learnt a lot from Lleyton and Pat and Rochey.   And definitely, yeah, something I will try and build towards.

Q.   Do you get any privileges?   Like sharing a room with Luke Saville, do you get biggest bed now or... 
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Luke actually was in the biggest bed, but I think I might keep the same routine.   (Laughter.)
He lost in the big bed, so maybe it's not such a good bed.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT