AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2012
James Duckworth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DUCKWORTH/J. Zopp
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You looked pretty comfortable out there.   Were you nervous at all?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah.   I was pretty nervous walking out.   There were lots of people out there.   First Grand Slam. 
But, yeah, I managed to hide my feelings quite well and, you know, I'm really happy with the win. 

Q.   What were your expectations really?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Well, I mean, I thought I was in with a good chance.   I'd seen Jurgen play a few times before up in Brisbane.   I thought he might be a bit tired.   He played three three‑setters in the qualifying.   He won 11‑9 in the third, 9‑7 in the third, and then 6‑3 in the third, I think.
I thought if I went out there.   I served well, was able to look after my own serve, I'd get chances.   I was able to just take them. 

Q.   Seemed to take a couple of deep breaths serving for the match.   What was going through the head?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   A lot of different thoughts.   I was basically just thinking, you know, please make a first serve.   Yeah, luckily I made a few. 

Q.   You dream about this kind of stuff.   How big is this for you?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   This is the biggest moment in my career.   I've always dreamt about playing the Australian Open in front of my home fans and my family and friends.   Yeah, it's an unbelievable feeling.

Q.   Have you been to the Open before?   Did you play previous years?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   I played qualifying last two years.   Last year I played main‑draw doubles as well.   I lost first round in quallies both years.   But I feel since last year I've improved a lot.

Q.   You've been hitting with Patrick Rafter a bit recently.   Has that helped at all?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, definitely.   I was up with him the week before Brisbane in Noosa.   I worked a lot on visualization with serving patterns.   That's helped me a lot. 
He's obviously a former world No.1, Grand Slam champion.   He's a great guy.   I learnt a lot from him. 

Q.   It's tough, but with a win in Brisbane and this one here, do you feel like you're on your way?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, I feel like I can match it with these guys at tour‑event level.   You know, it will probably take me, I guess, a few more tournaments to start feeling really comfortable.   I'm already feeling better than what I did in Brisbane. 
Yeah, it will take a little bit more time, but I think I'm going about it the right way.

Q.   Did you spend last year mostly in Europe on the clay?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   I did.   I spent from I think March until end of November on clay through Europe, then South America. 
I injured my knee in February.   We decided it would be a bit easier on the body playing on the clay being it's softer.   I started having some good results. 

Q.   Mainly challengers and futures?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah.

Q.   Did you get any starts in any ATP events?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   No, I didn't play.   I started last year at 750 in the world.   You know, you're not really getting into any ATP events.   I was just playing futures and challengers.

Q.   Are you still studying?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah, I'm studying commerce via distance through Deakin University. 

Q.   Melbourne Deakin?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah. 

Q.   It's the luck of the draw, isn't it?   You could have drawn anyone.   You got a qualifier.   You still have to make the most of it, don't you?
JAMES DUCKWORTH:   Yeah.   There were definitely a lot worse draws I could get.   But in saying that, you still have to go out there and beat the guy in front of you.   I was able to do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT