AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2016
James Duckworth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. HEWITT/J. Duckworth
7-6, 6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was it like to be part of that occasion?
JAMES DUCKWORTH: I mean, right now, you know, I'm disappointed about the loss.  I mean, it was a great atmosphere.  You know, I'll look back when my career ends saying that I shared the court with one of the best players ever in his last tournament on a big court.  You know, we played some good tennis out there.
Yeah, he's playing well.  But, yeah, there is a lot of disappointment right now.
Q. Can you take confidence from your performance, though?
JAMES DUCKWORTH: Yeah.  I mean, there's certain parts of my game that I think I used pretty well.  But, yeah, there are still a few things I need to work on, as well.
Q. Lleyton admitted it was awkward playing against you because of the relationship that you have.  Was it the same way for you?
JAMES DUCKWORTH: Yeah, definitely.  I've known him for a number of years now.  We've spent a lot of time together.  You know, just before the summer, I went over to his place a few times, we practiced there.  We practice a lot at tournaments.  Go out to dinners a lot.  I've had a pretty close relationship for a few years there.
It's always tough playing a good friend and also someone I've looked up to for a number of years.
Q. What did you say to him at the net?
JAMES DUCKWORTH: You've had a great career.  You're a legend.
Q. Did you feel the weight of expectations of a nation pulling against you?
JAMES DUCKWORTH: It was a little bit different.  It's not exactly common to go out at your home Grand Slam playing on the biggest court and most of the crowd's not really on my side.  Just the massive roar when he came out, when he was winning points was a bit odd.  But it is what it is.
Q. What are you going to take out of this experience?
JAMES DUCKWORTH: I mean, I think, you know, I'll only benefit from playing on a big arena with a big crowd.  You know, I think it's just a good experience in itself.  Hopefully I can learn from it a little bit.
Q. Obviously there was a lot of pressure on you before the game.  Did you feel that pressure during the game?
JAMES DUCKWORTH: I mean, during the match, you know, once it started, I was just focusing on what I had to do to win the next point.  So, I mean, that sort of went out of my mind as soon as it really started.
Q. For a few years there weren't that many up-and-coming young Australians on the tour.  Now that there are, that must feel great.
JAMES DUCKWORTH: It's great we have a number of us pushing forward, up the rankings.  Also it's good for our Davis Cup team.  In the next few years, I think we've got a genuine shot at winning it.  So it's great for Australian tennis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT