APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2016
James Duckworth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DUCKWORTH/I. Cervantes   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Is of how did that feel, James?  
JAMES DUCKWORTH: Yeah, it was good to get a win.  It was really tough conditions.  The wind was swirling around a lot in there.  It would come from one direction and then go from the other.   
It was tough to find any sort of rhythm with that.  But I think I handled myself pretty well; served pretty well; used a bit of variety in my game, which helps in those sorts of conditions.   
 Q.  Good to get a win here?  
JAMES DUCKWORTH: Yeah, I've had a couple tough draws here.  Yeah, it's great to win at home.  Had a lot of family and friends out there today, so it was good to win in front of them.   
 Q.  I think this will be first time with three Aussie men through to second round.  How does that feel?  
JAMES DUCKWORTH: Yeah, it's great.  I think Australian tennis is in a pretty great place right now.  Got some good players.  Could be four.  Grothy is playing tonight as well.   
So, yeah, we're all pushing each other.  I think we can have a few in the quarterfinals as well.   
 Q.  Tell us in what way the guys are encouraging each other?  
JAMES DUCKWORTH: Well, I mean, for example, I turn up at the national academy in Brisbane.  It's myself, Jordan Thompson, John Millman, Ben Mitchell, Oliver Anderson to name a few.   
One of us started doing well, and the other guys -- you know, we're all practicing together and we're thinking, If he can get to top 100, why can't I?  Everyone sort of follows suit.  We're each day practicing with each other and competing hard.   
Yeah, not a whole lot difference between all of us of us and we're all sort of gradually improving.   
 Q.  (Question regarding confidence.)  
JAMES DUCKWORTH: Yeah, it was great to get a win at a tour event.  Yeah, I'll be looking to take that into next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT