AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2015
James Duckworth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. DUCKWORTH/B. Kavcic  6-2, 5-7, 6-7, 3-6, 6-2  An interview with:  JAMES DUCKWORTH   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  You got your revenge.  JAMES DUCKWORTH: Yeah, pretty happy to have won a five-setter against him today.  Played a few times here in Australia and then the French as well.  It's always a tough match.  Really excited to win.   Q.  Tell me about the atmosphere out there.  The crowd was roaring, yelling, Quack, quack, quack.  What was it like?  JAMES DUCKWORTH: It was a lot of fun.  I really enjoyed the crowd support.  A lot of guys out there got behind me, and, you know, they created a great atmosphere.  It was a real buzz being out there.   Q.  Obviously the fifth set was huge, winning that.  The third set tiebreaker you obviously won six points in a row.  How key was that?  JAMES DUCKWORTH: Yeah, yeah, it was massive to somehow win that one.  A bit disappointed to have lost those six in a row, but felt I kept my composure pretty well and was able to grind out that set.   Q.  What was going through your mind at the start of the fifth set?  JAMES DUCKWORTH: Hold serve.  Just hold serve (laughter).  I was going to try to play a bit freer on his serve, try and take my chances.   Q.  Richard Gasquet next.  Have you had a chance to think about that next?  JAMES DUCKWORTH: Yeah, a little bit.  I played him at Wimbledon last year.  Lost in five sets there against him.  He's a quality player.  You know, he's been around for a while, been inside the top 10.  Obviously got a great one-handed backhand.  He's going to be really tough, but looking forward to it, yeah.   Q.  How much does revenge drive a tennis player?  JAMES DUCKWORTH: Yeah, I mean, it was big to get one back on him after he beat me in that thriller a couple years ago.  But, yeah, look, it was mostly just playing a better sort of style of play and then being able to give myself the best opportunity to play in the next round.   Q.  What memories do you have of that day?  JAMES DUCKWORTH: It was really hot.  I was pretty tired, pretty sore.  I just backed up from a five-setter on the Tuesday, then I had a three-set doubles on the Wednesday.  Yeah, I was pretty tired.  It hurt a bit.  It was an opportunity for the third round.   Q.  What have you got in your game that can hurt Gasquet?  JAMES DUCKWORTH: I think I have an all right serve.  I think my ability to come forward a bit, you know, make him pass me will trouble a lot of the top guys.   Q.  The mindset going in there, what is it?  JAMES DUCKWORTH: Just to play aggressive tennis and really just take it to him, make him beat me.  Yeah, that's the goal.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT