US OPEN
August 25, 1997
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you bring us up to date on your physical ability? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Nine or ten weeks since the operation. I spent most of the -- part in
Austria doing the rehab. I'm at the point where I'm starting to go jogging, so I've been
bicycling and jogging. It's been going fairly well. Obviously I always hope to be quicker,
but it's been going fairly well. 
 
Q. Are there mixed emotions being here, being here tonight but not being part of it?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Yeah. I mean, I felt awkward already this morning. It's not so much fun
coming here not being able to play, obviously. It's been a fun evening to see all the past
champions. It's been extremely impressive to see everybody come out here, so I'm happy to
be around. 
 
Q. Would you not have come, Steffi, if it was not for this event here?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: No, I wouldn't have come. 
 
Q. Steffi, there's been a lot of talk that without you, Martina Hingis is not a real
No. 1. What do you think of that topic? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: It's nothing that I worry too much about. She deserves to be where she's
at because she's played some incredible tennis this past year. And so that's all I can add
to it. I mean, I hope to be back, but right now that's the way to look at it. 
 
Q. You beat Martina Hingis (inaudible)?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: I don't think I would try to come back if I didn't think that, no. 
 
Q. When do you hope to come back, Steffi?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: I hope to be ready -- I should be definitely ready for next year. If I'll
be ready any earlier, I'll have to wait and see. But right now that's what I'm planning
on. 
 
Q. Do you have any doubts about your future as you come back from the physical problems
that you've had?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: No. I've got a very positive attitude towards it. From the way the doctor
has been telling me, it's been going fairly well, so I don't see a reason why I should
doubt it. Not now. 
 
Q. Is there a chance you could play the Chase Championships?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: It's not what I'm thinking right now. I want to be ready. When I come
back, I want to be really fit and healthy. So if that's going to happen, I don't know. I
don't want to bet on it. I really -- really I'm gunning for the Australian Open. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT