THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 25, 1996
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can we forget all this business now about you liking to play first thing in the morning? 

STEFFI GRAF:  Yeah.  I mean, it was perfect conditions out there, obviously no wind.  Could have kept on going.  It felt great, felt great. 


Q.  Is this one you'd want to put in a time capsule and save forever? 

STEFFI GRAF:  I wouldn't mind.  That's why I'm out there, to play that kind of tennis.  I tell you, it's a great feeling, great, great feeling. 


Q.  You were looking up into the sky (indicating). What were you saying? 

STEFFI GRAF:  What else can I do?  I was astonished.  I felt like I could hit whatever I felt I wanted to do, so. 


Q.  How often does that actually really come about, Steffi? 

STEFFI GRAF:  Not very often. 


Q.  Once a year? 

STEFFI GRAF:  No, a couple more times.  But I don't know, it's difficult to say.  Always the opponent has to figure in all the things have to kind of match up. Obviously, against Mary Joe, you have the time and have the possibility to play that kind of tennis, you have rallies, you have time for it.  I don't know.  It's difficult to count. 


Q.  You never know until you get out on the court? 

STEFFI GRAF:  I've been feeling pretty good all day, which is usually, you know, the opposite.  When I feel bad in the morning, sometimes I play my best tennis.  It's been great all day.  I've been hitting pretty well all day. 


Q.  Can you usually tell the first game or two how you're going to play? 

STEFFI GRAF:  You can.  I mean, you get a confidence in what you're doing.  The thing is, you really don't know how long you can hold it up.  It could be that you play a great first set, then you lack a little bit concentration.  Didn't really happen today at all. 


Q.  Do you remember the last time you played this well, hit the ball that good? 

STEFFI GRAF:  It's been a few tournaments.  But it's been a few tournaments since I've played.  It's been a few months.  I had a few good matches in Philadelphia.  I think it's been the best for quite some time. 


Q.  How does last year's Steffi Graf compare to this year's Steffi Graf?  Second tournament this year, how do you feel? 

STEFFI GRAF:  I think physically I feel a lot better.  I think mentally, knowing what I've achieved last year, I think I feel pretty comfortable out there.  Surely, you know, if you keep on missing a few months of tournaments, it's not always the easiest to start, but it's still been feeling pretty confident. 


Q.  So you didn't play so fast because you want to watch the Oscars? 

STEFFI GRAF:  Absolutely not. 


Q.  Steffi, what's a perfect day for Steffi Graf? 

STEFFI GRAF:  In general? 


Q.  Yes. 

STEFFI GRAF:  Doing unusual things.  I mean, doing things that you're not usually doing, going to concerts, just not always be around a tennis court. 


Q.  Would that include the beach? 

STEFFI GRAF:  I'm not such a beach type.  I do like the sun at times, but not very much. 


Q.  Do you do that kind of thing during a tournament? 

STEFFI GRAF:  Beach? 


Q.  Not the beach.  But you say trying to do stuff on your off days.  Here in Miami it's a pretty exotic place. Do you just keep it low key? 

STEFFI GRAF:  I would have wanted to go on Saturday night, it was a Grace Jones concert, but it was 2 o'clock in the morning, so it didn't really happen.  It's difficult, especially during the tournament.  Here you have three matches in a row so it's kind of difficult to squeeze something in.  You go to cinema, maybe watch some basketball or stuff like that.  It's difficult to get a night out. 


Q.  It looked like you were in complete control of the match today.  Did it feel that way to you? 

STEFFI GRAF:  Yeah.  It did.  It did.  I served extremely well, so I always was in the position to initiate the points.  I think I was putting so much pressure on her, at the end I forced her to make more errors because she had to get closer to the lines. 


Q.  Were you expecting a difficult challenge or you were just totally in control of her? 

STEFFI GRAF:  You don't really know that for a match.  You hope for it, but you can't expect it.  She's been pretty often injured and lately she's been starting to play better and play more tournaments.  I felt it would be a lot tougher. 


Q.  Just switching back to off beat things a minute, talking about what you like to do.  Can you indulge in terms of diet when you're not playing? 

STEFFI GRAF:  Diet? 


Q.  Are there things you would like to eat but don't eat when you're actually preparing for a tournament or are in a tournament, but you're happy to indulge in as a specialty or luxury when you're not playing? 

STEFFI GRAF:  That's been pretty difficult for me because I need my daily sugar.  I always don't eat that well.  I eat worse when I don't play a tournament.  I take a little more care of it, but still, I don't know, I'm a little dependent on sugar, so I do have a good amount of it daily.  How come you're interested in my diet? 


Q.  Couldn't think of anything else we haven't asked you before.  They're always worrying about my diet. 

STEFFI GRAF:  Don't watch mine. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT