THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1996
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Steffi, you looked a little uncomfortable in the last set.  Was the back hurting?  You didn't go for certain balls? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  Not really, but I think because I played so well in the first set and I was leading 3-Love, maybe just concentration was not all the time there and I saw the way I was playing and the way I was feeling, but on the other hand, she really hit some incredible shots, not always the most -- not always the easiest shots.  
 

Q.  Are you hurting at all anywhere? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  I am doing pretty well, doing pretty well.  Sometimes the back a little bit, but it's been pretty good.  
 

Q.  Steffi, I've seen you at the fight in Las Vegas.  What is your opinion about women fighting? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  Well, actually, I went with my mom and I wanted to see it and she said, you know, you got me to the boxing, but I am definitely not going to watch any women boxing, so actually I was sitting in the alley waiting for the fight to get over until I was finally able to get in with my mom; I ended up not seeing any of it, but I heard it was pretty good.  I probably would have watched.  I still prefer men fighting, though.  
 

Q.  You missed a bunch of tournaments coming up.  Have you decided how you are going to make them up?  Have you changed your schedule?  Where do you go from here, I guess? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  Well, I wouldn't mind making up the Australian. (audience laughter.) But I don't know how.  I am happy that I am able to play now, so I take my time and play the tournaments that I can.  I am not trying to make something up.  I mean, I try to play whenever I can and see how it goes from here.  
 

Q.  What are you scheduled for following this? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  Federation Cup.  
 

Q.  Were you happy or unhappy with today's match, the way it went, especially in the second set? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  You know maybe I wasn't too happy, I just kept -- didn't keep my focus out there, but other than that, I mean, I felt really good the way I was going for my shots, you know, especially for the first set.  I really felt my service was going in the right direction, you know, from the baseline I felt pretty solid, so I really can only say I wish I would have probably focused a little more, but she also played some good games at that time, too.  
 

Q.  Steffi, how does Monica Seles not being here affect your confidence? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  Well, it doesn't really vary or differ anyway.  Either way I am going into a tournament.  
 

Q.  I know you think you have a chance to win every tournament you play in.  Now that she is not here, does that give you more of a sense of that? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  I am pretty happy that I started the tournament.  I didn't really worry about anything else yet, so I will probably, but not right now.  
 

Q.  Steffi, have you lost weight, you look leaner? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  I haven't, no.  
 

Q.  Steffi, did you give any thought whatsoever to not playing to retiring after last year, or did you always think, I am going to be back and I am going to be playing? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  No, not at all.  Not even thought, no.  
 

Q.  How is the foot? 
 
STEFFI GRAF:  Great, very good, I can't complain, it's behaving.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT