WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 16, 1995
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Steffi, in the first set, where you saved the three break points and broke right back, what was going through your mind in that sequence?

STEFFI GRAF:  It was going back and forth at that moment. And we both served really well.  So we didn't give each other a lot of chances to do something on -- on the serve.  So I knew that it would be really important to get a break.  And when I got to 4-2, 5-2, I felt pretty comfortable at that moment.


Q.  Steffi, she was really matching you stroke for stroke.  She tried everything, she was at the net, had five aces.  Why can't she beat you?  It's on every surface, so don't say the surface.

STEFFI GRAF:  Well, I think again my serve was really important.  I think I've been really steady.  I've been mixing up my serve when it was important.  And just basically I think whenever it was 30-all, it was at tie point, I think I play a little better points.  But like you said, she was really going for all those things.  And played really aggressive.  So it was pretty -- 6-3, 6-4, it was really close. 


Q.  Is there a feeling, when you have won 12 out of 12, that even in a tight match like tonight, I can't lose?

STEFFI GRAF:  Actually, I rather look at statistics.  So I wasn't aware that I haven't lost.  So, I know that usually her kind of game is a game that I like to play against.  Because even though she's aggressive at times, she still gives me enough time to do things.


Q.  Who is faster than you?  She --

STEFFI GRAF:  Some players just play faster.  And that's -- I mean like Davenport or hitting it faster, or Frazier or Majoli can hit fast.  But usually she needs the good timing for her strokes.  That's why I usually have some time.


Q.  Have you specifically been working on the serve or is it just related to your back and your momentum, how it's going?

STEFFI GRAF:  I don't know.  But I haven't really changed anything on my serve.  I just take a little more time.  And serve has a lot to do with the kind of -- if you have the rhythm or the timing, it usually works well.  But once you're off it can take a little bit to get back.  And at the moment I feel it's on.  I haven't changed anything.


Q.  Does it ever have to do with how you're feeling physically?

STEFFI GRAF:  No, not really, no, unless my arm hurts.


Q.  Considering the level of play in this tournament, were you somewhat dismayed or amazed at the attention your new  outfit got by all the local press?

STEFFI GRAF:  I haven't read too many papers.  But a lot of people have been saying to me, telling me, even when I called back home, Germany, and people saying, oh, I heard you had a new dress.  And I was like, what?  So, it was one of the first subjects that everybody was talking about.  And, hey, that's not all the story.


Q.  Steffi, why do you think there have been so many upsets this year?  Does it have to do with the timing of the tournament, end of the year?

STEFFI GRAF:  I think so.  A lot of players have a little injury here and there, and a little tired, too.  Obviously that has to do a lot with it.


Q.  What is exactly your pain in your feet?

STEFFI GRAF:  I have blisters, major blisters.  I just tried different orthodics, that's why.


Q.  Steffi, doesn't it make it much easier for you having a home in Manhattan and playing a tournament where you have your base and relax totally?

STEFFI GRAF:  I think it helps a lot.  I've always felt comfortable at places where I feel at home.  And obviously having an apartment makes it a lot easier.  I can schedule things the way I want to.  I can relax.  I can cook, I can do a lot of different things.  And it's just like more normal rhythm for me, to go in the morning and do regular things.  I think I  feel more comfortable this way.


Q.  Steffi, at the U.S. Open, before the Open you said you weren't sure you could actually win the tournament.  Do you feel different now, this week?

STEFFI GRAF:  Yeah.


Q.  You're feeling healthier?

STEFFI GRAF:  Feeling healthier, feeling more happy with myself and just in general.  I think I have a different attitude than I had then.  But it doesn't mean that -- maybe I'm a little more cocky, but still I'm so realistic.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT