U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1995
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Was that your best match so far?

STEFFI GRAF: Yeah, absolutely I would say so. I think there wasn't really a lapse in
between and very few unforced errors. Much better serve. Just in general, a lot better
match than I have done so far.

Q. A lot of people were saying this might have been a good chance for her to upset you.
Do you think her concentration level was higher; were you trying to establish earlier your
dominance?

STEFFI GRAF: I think in general it was going to be -- should have been a lot tougher
match and I think that maybe I was focused a lot better because I have had a couple of
matches. I think that helped me a lot, just to, you know, to get a better feeling out
there. And I felt today -- I mean, I just got into the rhythm right early on. I think that
helped me and I think she was a little off on her serve so that helped me to get into the
match as well.

Q. When you are as focused as you were today, is there a feeling that only you could
beat yourself when you are playing this well, that another player out there cannot knock
you off your game?

STEFFI GRAF: You usually don't really have that kind of feeling. I think, you know, it
was a good game today and, you know, I felt great out there, but no, it is not that you
feel invincible, no, I don't think that it is like that.

Q. Had you heard a lot of the talk about people thinking that Chanda could beat you and
did you have any reaction to that or thoughts about it?

STEFFI GRAF: Not really. I mean, I, myself, said that she has a lot of talent and that
is what I have been seeing. I think when she goes back -- knowing her when she was eleven,
twelve years old, I think on a National Championships in Florida in Boca Raton, I just
walked by and saw her, I said "I think she has a lot of chance," I think I knew
even then that she would be a good player. I think that is what she proved. Maybe she was
not at her best today, but I think she showed quite a few times this year that she can do
it.

Q. Do you generally feel more comfortable round by round?

STEFFI GRAF: Yeah, I would definitely say so.

Q. Are you over your back problems for now; it is not a concern?

STEFFI GRAF: Not such a big concern.

Q. A lot of people thought that the two matches today out on Stadium, Hingis,
14-year-old, and Rubin had chances of knocking off you, and Sabatini. Do you think that,
you know, it was the old guard today or the established guard today --

STEFFI GRAF: I don't tend -- I don't try to think of the old guard, but, you know, it
is a nice change to see some new faces out there. And people say -- and even I, at times,
believe that they can upset you and they are trying to, you know, make a name for
themselves and, you know, they have got a lot of talent. It is just -- maybe it just lacks
a little bit of experience at times.

Q. Can you discuss your next match against Amy?

STEFFI GRAF: Did she win already?

Q. No. I guess I got ahead of myself.

STEFFI GRAF: All right. So I think I got to talk about both of them or you just want to
talk about Amy?

Q. Please.

STEFFI GRAF: Well, I think either of them -- I mean, Amy is probably more of a steadier
player from the back and Natasha is somebody that tries to, you know, get you off your
rhythm, she tries to come in, tries a lot of different things. And the last few years I
have started to have a little bit more problems because I don't really get as much of a
rhythm playing against her than some other players. For example, I think against Amy it
will be a little bit more comfortable out there because I know know what to expect rather
than from Natasha, not knowing what to do.

Q. Do you look forward to a match like Chanda where somebody who comes right at you and
attacks and just hitting out, right from the beginning, as opposed to somebody who is
trying to change pace on you the whole match?

STEFFI GRAF: Yeah, I prefer that. Yeah, I prefer to play somebody that plays similar to
me, goes for their shots and -- you know, because then I usually know what to expect and
usually find a better rhythm.

Q. Do you think you made any kind of statement today about your chances for the title?

STEFFI GRAF: I am in the quarters, so I think three more matches to go. I am a lot
closer than maybe at times I thought I will be, so I guess I am excited about that, but I
am not talking about a title right now.

Q. Why is that? Why didn't you think you would be this close?

STEFFI GRAF: For a lot of reasons which I don't really want to get into.

Q. You had a lot of doubts on yourself coming in here?

STEFFI GRAF: Yes, a lot of doubts.

Q. Any expectations?

STEFFI GRAF: No, none. None at all, actually.

Q. How much of those doubts faded with the four matches?

STEFFI GRAF: I think that, you know, it is one week later and/or eight, nine days later
since I felt that, you know, it would be difficult for me to play. I think these eight,
nine days helped me a lot. The matches helped me a lot and time helped me, so I think I
was just -- I am more relaxed from that time on and it is just-I don't know-more at peace
with myself.

Q. After today, would you say you were playing as well as you did at Wimbledon?

STEFFI GRAF: I think, definitely, that was a very good match, yeah. 

Q. Have you ever had these kind of doubts, I mean, within yourself before a major like
this?

STEFFI GRAF: Yeah. I have, maybe not as big of a doubts, but I have had doubts, yeah.

Q. Did you prove to yourself anything specific today; are some of those doubts going
away?

STEFFI GRAF: Yeah, I mean, that is what I said earlier in the week. I think I just need
to play a few matches and that is what really happened. I just needed to get more
comfortable on the court and, you know, get more focused and, you know, I needed these
couple of matches to get where I am right now.

Q. So the doubts -- are they more emotional doubts than physical?

STEFFI GRAF: A mixture. Mixture of both.

Q. Does Monica have anything to do with that?

STEFFI GRAF: Not yet.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT