THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1995
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 TONI WATERS WOODS:  Any English questions.

 Q.  Uhmm, that is hard, English. It will come to me.  I haven't
been here before, Steffi, so you have probably discussed this
subject.  But do you feel, overall, it was beneficial for you
to have that much time off?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I don't think it was really beneficial because
there were a lot of doubts during that time and I didn't really
know how things would be, if I would come back and if I would
be able to -- if I could play well enough; if I could physically
be physically fit enough.  I think there were so many questions.
 I think it was difficult to come back in the beginning.  I think
it was a real difficult step for me, but maybe the difference
now is that I am a little bit fresher probably because I haven't
really played too much and maybe I enjoy playing now a little
bit more because I wasn't sure if I will be able to keep playing
or not.

 Q.  You classified yesterday's match as "near perfect."
 How would you call today's?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Quite a bit off.  I think it was the other direction
that -- well, it was a different match.  I mean, she is a lot
harder for me to play against, I have to say.  Her game doesn't
really match mine and she doesn't really give you a rhythm. She
played slow.  She played some faster ones and she didn't give
me the timing and then I think I didn't move as well and just
made too many unforced errors, I think.

 Q.  Did it upset you when she did that gesture when she hit
the backhand winner down the line or were you having fun with
it when you aced her on the next points?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Definitely, I would say I had some fun afterwards.
 No, I mean, it was for her, she played one-handed; it was an
incredible shot, so I applauded too because it was amazing.  No,
I didn't -- I didn't get upset - not at all.

 Q.  You are going to keep that in your act now?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No.  That is not me.  It was at that moment.

 Q.  I haven't seen you called for a footfault before.

 STEFFI GRAF:  Well, it has been happening quite a bit lately,
but that is because the wind just pulls the ball a little further
and I'd stretch for it instead of just, you know, letting it drop
again, so it happened quite a few times last week in Delray.

 Q.  Steffi, Monica Seles is back in the headlines again with
her situation.  I think you were recorded as saying that you would
share your No. 1 ranking; is that correct?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yeah, but I did say that I don't own it right now.


 Q.  Do you talk to her at all or have you talked to her recently?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No.  I have not talked to her for about a year
or so.

 Q.  So you really don't know her mood or anything like that?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No, I don't.

 Q.  Do you think it would be good if she comes back?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Obviously, I think it would be good.  I have mentioned
that before.  I think it would be -- I think for herself, probably,
I think it would be a good step and probably in a good direction
because it would show that she would be ready to face a lot of
things and I think it would be great for the sport and for the
spectators; I think, for everybody.

 Q.  Do you feel like you have Natasha's number? They are close
matches, but you always pull them out.

 STEFFI GRAF:  It is difficult to say, but she is always giving
me a hard time, but then at the end, I seem to be able to make
the important points and I think that kind of sticks probably
in my mind.

 TONI WATER WOODS:  Anymore English questions?

 End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT