THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 19, 1995
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Steffi, in your opinion, comparing Steffi Graf in 1988
and Steffi Graf today, which will win.

 STEFFI GRAF:  That's difficult to answer, but I think I would
say that I am a better player now than I have been at that age.
 I think my serve has improved and I think I have more of a game
plan on the court and I think that I can do more on the court
at this time.

 Q.  And the desire?

 STEFFI GRAF:  The desire?  It is still there.  That is still
strong.

 Q.  Steffi, in a way, did you surprise yourself with the comeback
that you made this year winning the two tournaments since you
have played; playing such good tennis so soon?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yeah, I was very surprised in Paris, I mean, I
didn't expect that at all to start off the way that I did with
the first tournament and I had some tough opponents with Jana
in the semis and with Mary in the finals, but in the beginning
of the tournament I didn't think I was prepared, but afterwards,
I was shown different, so I am pretty surprised, I have to say,
and then to have been playing well so far, I mean, yeah, I didn't
expect it, really.

 Q.  Is that giving you much more confidence for this event
in the hope of defending the title?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Oh, yeah, for sure.  I think I changed a lot before
Paris confidence-wise, for example, after Paris, or for the last
few weeks, I think at that stage, I really didn't know where I
stand and how I would react to be on the court again and playing
matches because I haven't really had a lot of matches and I didn't
know how physically I would be ready for it, so I think it showed
me a good things and I think that is why I think I have a lot
more confidence now than I did before then.

 Q.  How do you feel was the reaction of the fan tonight, the
public?

 STEFFI GRAF:  In which way do you mean?  Like how they got into
the match and stuff?

 Q.  Yes.

 STEFFI GRAF:  I think we had a few good points, but then again,
there were a lot of quick rallies and -- I think it was difficult
for the public to get really into the match.

 End of FastScripts....             
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT