THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 18, 1995
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Steffi, how would you rate your performance today?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Windy.  I guess I played well until 5-1, then I
kind of didn't finish it up very well.  But I think until then,
I think I played a solid match.  It was extremely windy out there
with the wind.  It just has been difficult to serve; difficult
to return and find the right places, so I tried to do the best
out there.

 Q.  In getting upset -- this is like two tournaments in a
row, Steffi, where the wind is just constantly there and you can't
really work the way you want to work out there.  Is it beginning
to anger you in any way or upset you?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No, it is just disappointing because you can't
really play your best tennis.  It is just impossible.  And on
the other hand, usually you expect the wind here in Key Biscayne.
 Usually in Delray, you really don't have too much wind, but you
kind of expect it here, so I think you have to accept it, but
just sometimes you don't really find your rhythm very well.

 Q.  Is there a little bit of an incentive-- more of incentive
when you are No. 2 than No. 1 to really do well; to get back to
where you want to be?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Not at all.  I don't think that really is in my
head at all right now.  I think that I am more concerned about
the way I am playing, the way I feel, rather than where I am standing
right now.  Not at all, no.

 Q.  Steffi, the vote is this afternoon on the ranking question,
the devisor.  Have you changed your mind at all or have you settled
in your own mind on what your views are?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Sorry, if I have what?  If I change --

 Q.  Well, whether you have made up your mind how you feel
about that question?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yes.  You want the answer.

 Q.  Yeah.

 STEFFI GRAF:  Well, the thing is obviously the tournament directors
need the top players to play and so people have been saying that
12 is not enough and because of the -- we are trying to find incentives
for the players to play the tournaments so the only way or there
will be -- to raise the tournaments as the devisor and I mean,
what -- I mean, I don't really care too much about it because
I think 14 would be a good solution.  I think 16 is too much for
all the players to play; especially the top players, and the young
players or the older players -- I think, in general, 16 would
be too much, but I think I would feel fine with 14.  Obviously,
it is difficult if you are injured; if you are not feeling well
or you have to miss a couple of months to make up the tournaments,
but that is the way it is.

 Q.  Steffi, you have been doing more work on behalf of the
Tour; more appearances.  Are you happy to be doing that.

 STEFFI GRAF:  Well, that is a difficult one to answer, but I
think I know that it is my responsibility and so I accept it,
but sure, I am not really the person who wants to spend off time
doing appearances, but some things have to be done and I absolutely
agree with them.

 End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT