VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 17, 1994
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Steffi, she seemed to thrive on your pace, when you slowed the ball up that seemed to work a little bit, was it trouble to keep up that game plan? 

STEFFI GRAF:  Well, I was constantly on my defense and I just played really short today.  I think my returns were really short and she could take easily advantage of it and she didn't really miss a lot of shots, so it was really difficult for me. 


Q.  Was that as much as you can expect after being away for so long? 

STEFFI GRAF:  Well, I think the most difficult is I lost my concentration.  Right from the beginning was difficult to concentrate and I was tired for some reason, and so it was really difficult, so, I knew it is not going to be easy coming back after such a layoff and I haven't really played a lot of matches.  Obviously, it is not easy. 


Q.  Steffi, is this a year that you are just, like, grateful that it's all over with and you would just like to forget? 

STEFFI GRAF:  Well, certainly I'm not extremely happy.  I started off really well, but, I think right now, all I'm concerned about is my health and that's all I'm going to try to work on for the next few weeks. 


Q.  When you were away from the game two months, did that give you a taste for being a way or did it make you really want to be back? 

STEFFI GRAF:  It's really difficult -- obviously, I didn't play any tournaments, but, you know, I did so much physical work and therapy every day, I didn't really feel I'm doing any different than before.  Sure I had more time for myself and I enjoy it, but I don't think I can take it as realizing how it would be without tennis. 


Q.  Steffi, is there any risk or any chance because of the back problems that you might not turn up in Australia? 

STEFFI GRAF:  I have no idea.  I will certainly try all my best that I can in the next few weeks.  I will try everything I can. 


Q.  Steffi, I realize difference surface, different circumstances; can you compare how she played today versus Paris? 

STEFFI GRAF:  I think she was extremely solid.  I mean, she -- off both sides, she didn't really make a lot of mistakes, I have to say, and she was really going for her shots, taking a lot of risks and doing it really well and I think it's difficult to compare it to -- compare to the two times. 


Q.  When you said the other night your back felt fine during play, did it ever tighten up from that point when we talked to you till now? 

STEFFI GRAF:  No, not really.  Actually, it's been fine since then. 


Q.  Is that encouraging; is it better than you thought? 

STEFFI GRAF:  Much better than I expected it to be, I have to say. 


Q.  Steffi, considering your layoff, do you think that your play tonight was on the way back? Did you expect to play better tonight? 

STEFFI GRAF:  I expected to play better.  I was really disappointed the way I played.  I think I was hitting the ball better than I did tonight. 


Q.  Do you have holiday plans? 

STEFFI GRAF:  No. 


Q.  I mean, even to go home? 

STEFFI GRAF:  No.  Nobody is home. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT