U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1994
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Is it getting monotonous winning like that? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: What?  
 
Q. Boring. 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: No. No, it doesn't. No, I mean, I am just waiting for the right match to
come along.  
 
Q. Did she give you a little bit of trouble early on in the second -- 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: I mean, yeah, she got kind of another rhythm because she knew that and she
got adjusted to the speed a bit more. Maybe I just tried for a little bit too much, just
tried to do too many winners and made quite a few unforced errors. I just needed to cool
down and just play the points a little bit better.  
 
Q. Given Martina's upcoming retirement, could you comment on kind of what she has meant
to you in the game? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: She has been always an opponent I always looked forward to play against
her. She dominated tennis for so long and she was somebody that if you need somebody to
look up to and look at the professional attitude, I think she was the right person to do
that. She showed all the players how to give everything for the tennis; the way she
approached tournaments; the way she was in great physical shape. She really had the game,
I mean, it is not there anymore. The serve and volleying, the touch, and I think she had
also a lot of-- in a way, a lot of grace about the way she played and the way she kind of
was around the court. I think people have not been recognizing enough, I think, what kind
of person she is.  
 
Q. Do you remember the first time you met her? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: No.  
 
Q. What about the first time you played her? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: I think it was even here, but I am not quite sure. I think it was here, I
lost to her 2 and 2 or something, I think -- I mean, it was just real difficult to play
against her the first time. She is a lefthander; she comes in, all these things didn't
make it a lot easier for me playing her.  
 
Q. What do you consider your best match together against her? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: There have been a couple. I think the time that I played probably -- I
mean, we had quite a few matches. I think the one I was down a set and 2-Love in
Wimbledon, I think that was a memorable match. Again, we had close one 7-6, third set. I
could name quite a few, quite a lot to remember.  
 
Q. Do you like to remember them? Do you like to think about them sometimes? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: I like to, but I don't do it very often. I rarely look back at matches.  
 
Q. Do you get the sense that when young players, or younger players that play you now,
that they -- that you get the sense that they feel about you like you felt about Martina
when you first started playing her? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: No. Actually, I don't, because it is something that I don't think when I
go on the court to play somebody, I really don't. I just play the match and everybody is
so different getting into a match, some if they play top player they lose, tighten up. I
don't think you can compare.  
 
Q. Did Conchita's loss surprise you? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: She didn't have an easy opponent. I played Ginger quite a few times and
she is somebody that you really have to beat. She is not somebody that gives up and she
doesn't make a lot of mistakes. She is very solid off the baseline. She knows what to do;
when to come in; how to play a match. So she isn't a very easy player; especially if you
don't have a good day, she is a tough player to play against. I knew it would not be an
easy match. I didn't think she would lose, but there was a possibility.  
 
Q. How do you feel physically? Do you think you can keep playing the way you did today?

 
 STEFFI GRAF: Yeah, I think so. I mean, I felt fine on the court, I mean no problems at
all, so I think I have been pretty stable like that, and consistent. So I hope it is going
to continue like that. But I am pretty sure.  
 
Q. When you were down a break a little bit there seemed there was a little lull in the
match. Did you feel you to pick up your game a notch there? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Yeah, because in these couple of games I think my concentration was not on
every point, and I just didn't play the points very patiently and I just felt that I just
had to play a couple of good games because she started to play a lot better too.  
 
Q. What about your next match, I mean, you just have to play through these; is it just
something you have to get through to get where you want to be? 
 
 STEFFI GRAF: But it is not the way I look at it. I still go out and I mean, I have
never seen her play. I have never seen her really on the court before, I never played her,
and that is what happened the first round, so these matches are not really that easy, but
obviously I have been getting through them pretty quickly, so I am happy with that.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT