THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 15, 1994
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 STEFFI GRAF:  Davenport is next.  What can I say?  I mean, I
am also surprised the way things are going, I have to say.  I
am on the court really having the feeling that I can't miss anything,
so I am a little stunned myself.

 Q.  Are you seeing the tennis ball a lot bigger than you have
for a long time?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No, I wouldn't say.  It is just usually you have
some days where you play maybe not as good or you miss more than
usual, but I haven't had it for quite sometime.  It is a great
feeling.

 Q.  Going into the match today did you think back two years
ago when Date took you to three sets over here?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Like I usually say, I don't look back too much.
 But I do know she has really been playing well, especially the
beginning of this year, every tournament she has played, except
Tokyo, she played very well.  That is why I knew I better watch
out and I was prepared to play longer rallies and whenever I did,
I think I was the one who was able to play a little bit longer
and little bit more strength in the strokes, and still I expected
it to be more difficult.

 Q.  Steffi, how would you compare the way you are playing
now to 88 when you won the Grand Slam --

 STEFFI GRAF:  It is difficult to compare to playing six years
ago.  I think I have definitely grown in my game, overall.  I
think everything has gotten better and at that stage, I don't
think I really knew all the possibilities that I would have, to
what to do with the ball.  I think I found out a little bit more
about it the last couple of years.

 Q.  What is more fun than hitting the ball the way you did
in that last game -- those last four games?

 STEFFI GRAF:  What is more fun?

 Q.  Yeah.

 STEFFI GRAF:  Oh, come on.

 Q.  I am not talking about that.

 STEFFI GRAF:  What do you know what I am thinking? She is guessing.


 Q.  It is the color of the face.

 STEFFI GRAF:  I guess there are a few things, but tenniswise,
I don't think there is a feeling; it can't get any better than
that.

 Q.  If you say that you have grown as a player now compared
to back to 1988, if you had to pinpoint one specific thing that
has changed everything for you, what would you say that is? Would
it be the new racket?  Would it be the training?  What?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I would say that it started with Heinz.  That is
what I really have to say.  He had a lot of ideas which I wasn't
just -- at that moment, I needed a change, I needed a push.  For
a couple of years I wasn't working as hard.  I didn't do anything
different.  I just was playing tennis as a routine and he changed
that.  He made it more difficult, but he just -- he just showed
me things that I wasn't shown at that stage.  So I would think
that he was the biggest change, the best change that I have had.


 Q.  More difficult, but would you also say he has made it
more fun again?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Well, if I am playing like that all day, yeah,
he has made it more fun.  Maybe the training sometimes is not
as much fun.  If you are doing things that maybe you are not as
good and you have to do them, it is difficult for me, but I know
the result will show and I just need some time for it.  I have
a lot of trust in him.  That is why I am just doing these things.


 Q.  Do you think there is a chance that you could be an even
better player if there was somebody out there who could push you
on a consistent basis?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Maybe.  I think it is difficult.  I don't think,
really, because I have been -- because there are matches that
I would have with that one person; it would only be a couple of
times a year and I don't think that I can work much harder than
I do or can do more things that I haven't explored, so I don't
think so.

 Q.  Do you feel that the other players reached a level of
frustration knowing that you are pretty much unbeatable right
now?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Ask them.  Ask them.  I mean, it is -- I think
it must be frustrating, especially for example for Kimiko today,
she had no chance of doing anything.  Whatever I did, I just didn't
miss.  I think that is a frustrating thing to be playing somewhere
out there like that.

 Q.  What is the feeling in that zone whatever you hit is a
winner, you don't miss?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Like I said, the ball is getting close to the line;
it is impossible; it got in again, it is just incredible because
you can do so much things on the court.  You can play down the
line. You can play shots that you know and even if you are in
trouble, you know you get back in that point, I mean, it is a
very good feeling.

 Q.  Do you know who King Midas is?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yes, I have heard of him.

 Q.  You know what the significance is?

 STEFFI GRAF:  What is significance?

 Q.  Who he is; what do you know about him?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Not much.  I know he existed sometime. I don't
know.  I don't know.

 Q.  That everything he touched turn to gold?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Oh, that is him.

 Q.  Do you feel a little like that?

 STEFFI GRAF:  On the court right now, yeah, I'd say so.

 Q.  What is your preparation going to be like for the French
Open this year?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I think it will be very similar to the years that
-- to the other years that I have prepared for the clay court
season.  I will be starting whenever the tournament finish rightaway.
 I will play Hilton Head which is only one week after this, which
is very little to transfer from the hard court to clay courts.
 I will stay for a little while in Boca, train there, go home,
play Hamburg and play Berlin, just the same schedule.

 Q.  Who are some of the toughest players to meet for you on
the clay?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Top of the list is Arantxa.  She is probably the
best clay court player there is around, but also it is a surface
that Gabriela is more comfortable with and Mary Joe.  On clay
court you have more specialists, I think.  At this time it is
a lot harder to play on that, especially for me.

 Q.  What is it about Arantxa's game in particular that makes
it tough?

 STEFFI GRAF:  She is very steady and the court is very slow,
which makes it more difficult to play winners, so you have to
work out the points better.  Obviously, my game suits me better
on a faster surface because of my serve and she could more easily
return it.  Doesn't make as many mistakes as on hard court.

 Q.  Is it tough to make that transition from hard court to
--

 STEFFI GRAF:  It is.  Usually takes me a while.

 Q.  Trying to be more patient?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yeah.

 Q.  The way you are dominating right now on the tour, is that
good for women's tennis, would you think?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Is that good?  I think what is good about it is
that I am playing such great tennis and I think that is good for
the women's tennis. I think it shows that I am trying hard.

 Q.  What did you think of Arantxa's result today?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I was surprised, very surprised.  I haven't seen
a lot of the game.  All I saw was the last game, so I can't really
comment on it, but I was surprised.  She is usually very steady.
 She always play 'till the end of the tournament and she rarely
loses before she gets to the semis or something, but apparently
Brenda must have played very well, served very well, come in,
you don't have that many players anymore, so maybe she wasn't
that used to it.

 Q.  Surprised about the fact that she had five matchpoints
in the second set, Arantxa?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Did she have 6-1?  Somebody told me.

 Q.  Yes.

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yes, that makes it even crazier.  I mean, leading
6-1, you should close out.  I don't know what happened during
that point, I don't know.

 Q.  I guess she can't beat you this week.  Steffi, you are
surprised by that, would you allow yourself at all to think that
when Arantxa loses, Gaby loses, Jana loses all on the same day,
would you allow yourself to think that maybe I am not so invulnerable?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I haven't thought about it.  I don't think I would
think about it, really.  Not at all.  Because it is tennis, it
happens.  I will have my bad days too.  It is not what I have
been having for a while, but I know it is going to come, so I
don't see about it, really.

 Q.  You really think that one day you will have a bad day?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I am human.  Am I? 

  End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT