THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 14, 1994
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Steffi, Jim Courier is of the opinion that one of the reasons
you are dominating so right now is because you are simply more
fit than the other women players. What is your feeling about that?

STEFFI GRAF: I don't know -- I mean, on some players you can say
they are maybe not as fit and some you can say they are fit. It
is just -- it is difficult to just put a label on everybody, I
would say.

Q. Does that contribute to the disparity in the women's game
and the dominance by the top players, do you think it is the fact
that not everyone out there is in top shape?

STEFFI GRAF: Maybe. But it is up to them to decide what to do.
I mean, you can't make the decision for them. I mean, they must
know what they want to do and how far they want to go and, so
it is really up to them what to do.

Q. Must be a tremendous-- give you a tremendous sense of confidence
playing someone who you know is less-- in less than peak condition
when you go out there, I assume?

STEFFI GRAF: When I go out there I don't really care too much
about it because I just go out and see how everything is going.
I mean, I am trying more to concentrate on my serve rather than
the opponent. I do realize that sometimes knowing maybe I can
outrun the other one, but it is not what I am there for. I am
there to play my game.

Q. Is your conditioning a big part of your game; do you feel
like that is the reason for the success?

STEFFI GRAF: It hasn't been really the last couple of years. I
think from beginning this year, it has because physically I am
much fitter than I have ever been. I trained harder than I have
had, and the other on the other hand, I don't have as many injuries
anymore as I used too. So it is all coming together. 

Q. You said you were looking for a bit of a challenge. Did
you think you got it during those few games that forced you to
raise your level a little bit after that?

STEFFI GRAF: Today?

Q. Yeah, today after you got to the five and then --

STEFFI GRAF: Yeah, I did have to tell myself to concentrate and
play the point better than I did a couple of games. On the other
hand, I did make some more errors maybe more than usual, but she
did play very well in that one game and she broke me. She returned
very well. But I did have to tell myself, "come on, let's
go."

Q. When you do that, when you tell yourself, "let's go"
or something, do you find yourself more focused and the games
start going well for you?

STEFFI GRAF: Yeah. Obviously the other points I maybe didn't concentrate
as well. At 5-3 I said okay, let us take it point by point.

Q. Because the second set went very, very quickly.

STEFFI GRAF: Yeah, then on, sometimes you let down on a few games
and that is what happened, but I didn't want it to happen again.


End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT