THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 12, 1994
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  What are you going to do with the rest of your day now?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Well, my Poppy is waiting, so I don't know, I am
not going to do too much.  Maybe I am going to work out a little
bit more today.

 Q.  Do you want to just tell us how well you felt you were
playing today.  The score is obviously good, but how well did
you feel you were playing?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I think it was all right.  I think it was good.
 Obviously, the wind was swirling a little bit and so sometimes
you didn't know which way it was going, but otherwise my serve
was working well.  Overall, it was fine.

 Q.  When the wind swirls there did you notice a pattern?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Not like yesterday where it was coming pretty much
from one side.  Today it was switching around a little bit.

 Q.  Do you have a little more desire when you come back to
a tournament that you lost the previous year?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No, I don't think it really sticks in my mind.
 I am just there and it is a new year and I don't really look
back too much.  Not at all.

 Q.  Do you look ahead in your half of the draw to see who
is the strong possibility that might give you a little bit more
problems later on?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I mean, I know who is in my half.  I just usually
take it match by match.  I don't really look too much on the possibilities.
 When it is there, I look at it; not before.

 Q.  How do you feel when you notice that somebody who might
have given you trouble somewhere later on even in a final gets
knocked off right in the beginning like Helena did today?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Well, I said it last week.  She can play some great
tennis and then again she can play some bad tennis.  Apparently
today it wasn't really her day.  With her, you never really know.
You don't know how she is going to wake up.  I don't know.

 Q.  You said Sunday you were hoping to be able to kind of
work out more and get in shape. How did you spend those four days?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Working a lot.  I mean, again, I did my workout
in the gym.  I practiced more than I have been able to do before
the two weeks in the tournament, so I did what I wanted to do.


 Q.  Do you feel the way you want to feel at the moment?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yes, I do.

 Q.  Do you ever feel like in an early round match that you'd
like to be out there maybe a little bit longer?  Some people want
to and it is not possible, sometimes you just have to get off
there quickly as it is.  Do you have to now go spend another hour
on the court this afternoon?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I would prefer longer points to be pushed more
even if it is first round, semifinal, whatever match, I am out
there to be challenged.

 Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT