U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1993
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously, the knee wasn't bothering you too much tonight?

STEFFI GRAF:  Obviously, it didn't.  Usually I play pretty well when I have an injury, but normally I don't make it a habit.


Q. Could you tell us what happened today how you hurt it?

STEFFI GRAF:  It was end of my practice first, I hit a hot shot ball was coming toward me; tried to get away and I hit my knee with the racket and I kept playing points and then I started -- I hit a forehand and I twisted my knee; that is when I suddenly had a lot of pain, so I just stopped right away from there and saw the doctor.


Q. You had such a close match with her a month ago.  What was the main difference?

STEFFI GRAF:  I played so much better.  I think she didn't play the first few games.  I mean, I think she was a little bit nervous in the beginning and she made a few errors and then from then on, I just dominated the points real easily.


Q. The time before, did she play you the same way today?  It looked like a routine early round victory 45 minutes, 6-1, 6-Love.  In fact it looked like she was really trying to let you off the court.

STEFFI GRAF:  That was difficult for her today.  I mean, she -- I think-- once I think it was 4-1 or 5-1 in the first set; she didn't really know what to do, because whatever she did, I mean I played faster; then I moved well around the court.  She didn't really have anything that she -- had a chance on trying to go for it.  Then she tried a few higher ones.  I mean, I just went for every shot and it just worked today.  I took her first serves and I played very deep and with a lot of pace.  It was difficult for her to just doing something.


Q. Do you feel extraordinarily good right now; are you surprised at how well you played and are you--  how you are playing right now overall?

STEFFI GRAF:  I don't think they could have played much better.  There were rarely any mistakes.  I mean, it wasn't a game that I just waited for the right point.  I mean, I just went for it right from the beginning, my serve was fine.  My return, I mean, there is nothing I really could criticize.  For that stage, I played great.


Q. Steffi, you won every game but one.  Is that an indication of your dominance today or sort of the way your game is going in general now?

STEFFI GRAF:  Well, you don't play like that everyday.   I mean, you got to treasure these moments.  It is -- like I said, five weeks ago we had a close match, a lot of close games.  It just happens; one day you play great.  Next day you don't play as well.  You can't really--


Q. How is your game right now?

STEFFI GRAF:  Fine.


Q. In the beginning of the match were you worried about the knee at all?

STEFFI GRAF:  Very.  Actually- - I didn't, I mean from the beginning I didn't really know what to expect.   I mean, I took a lot of painkillers.  It will be all right.  But probably -- I played a few points or I practiced a couple of minutes before the match and it helped me a little bit because before it really hurt when I stepped on it, and plus with the knee brace, it felt pretty good and I think it was great that I played a few minutes before to just make sure that I would be confident and know that it is possible to play on it.


Q. Mary has been claimed as one of the best of the up and coming players.  You have had two matches against her.  Can you say that she is a good player in the future?

STEFFI GRAF:  Definitely.  She has the shots. She plays them extremely fast and her body is perfect for tennis, actually.  I mean, physically she can't be in better shape.  I think she knows that for herself.  For her service motion and the way she plays, she kind of has it, really.  She will need awhile to play the points maybe a little bit better, but I think she definitely has the talent for it.


Q. After all her trouble with her father that was all publicized, do you think it was very tough for her to come into a Grand Slam and this whole atmosphere?

STEFFI GRAF:  Probably was tough to her get into the tournament but I think it helped in a way.  It helped her just to concentrate on tennis and to be in a tournament and to have matches and enjoy it. I think she really enjoyed herself.  So I think in a way that helps to play a tournament.


Q. Is it tough for you Steffi to play somebody who is just on the cover of sports illustrated and had this sort of article done about her and so forth is it tough for you to concentrate on tennis?

STEFFI GRAF:  No, not at all.  No, I mean, I know that people were would be more for her today and I knew that -- I would sense more that she would be more without pressure today.  I thought everybody was expecting a lot from me, rather than from her, so I was surprised that she was a little bit nervous at the beginning.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT