U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1993
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q. I guess nobody wants to ask you any questions.  Did you
expect to be playing today? You seemed to be the only one of the
major seeds playing.

 STEFFI GRAF:  I kind of asked to play today in a way because
I have a banquet to go to tonight so I prefer to have the next
day off.  That is all.

 Q. You are ready to play your second round this afternoon?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Well, yeah, I mean, I am ready for the tournament,
so I would be ready, yeah. 

Q. Do you have any worries about your foot or is that not a
problem?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No, hasn't been any problem anymore since after
Wimbledon, so I hope it won't come back.  I mean, there is always
a chance, but there is nothing that really bothers me right now.


 Q. What specifically was the problem at Wimbledon?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I had an inflammation in the bone and it got aggravated.


 Q. Are you among the players that seemed to be relieved; that
they are not trying this new line calling system, did you have
feelings about it one way or the other?  I believe you practiced
with it.  Did you care one way or the other?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I just -- I am somebody who is not so much into
electronics, and I prefer to have people sitting on your side
because it is just part of tennis and that is why I prefer it
this way, really. I mean, even if the line calling would be maybe
better, I just prefer it this way.

 Q. The way you are dominating this year, how would you compare
it to when you were No. 1 for those years and the way the rest
of the tour is playing?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I think couple of years back I don't think there
was that much tough matches as there is now.  I have a lot of
tough matches, close matches that I could have lost as well this
year and I -- which was a strength of mine this year. Few years
backs things were a lot easier.  There wasn't that tough of a
competition than 5-6 years ago.

 Q. Steffi, in a couple of minutes Monica Seles is going to
be talking to us.  I am wondering if you have any reaction to
the women lifting that so-called freeze on the No. 1 ranking.
 Monica is not being frozen as the No. 1 player now because obviously
she is not playing and she said last week in an interview it is
the women's players choice not to leave her No. 1 during that
recovery.  I am wondering if you have any reaction, possibly,
and the rest of the women's tennis players not putting her in
a so-called special category to preserve that No. 1 ranking?

 STEFFI GRAF:  You got to understand, all of us, we have to play
all year long.  I mean, we all have to struggle through injuries,
through our problems and through tough matches and through tough
tournaments.  You know, it has been a very sad incident and it
is tough for everybody, but I think it is difficult for us as
the players to choose what to do.  I think it is not up to us,
the players, and I think the way it has been handled, I mean,
it is difficult to say if it is the right thing or not, but I
think it has been handled as good as possible.

 Q. Do you consider her situation more of a special case than
a routine foot or arm, back injury?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Definitely.

 Q. Steffi, have you talked to her at all? Have you met with
her here?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No, I haven't seen her at all.

 Q. Do you plan to?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Hopefully if I see her I want to talk to her.

 Q. Last time you spoke to her was actually in Germany?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yes.

 Q. How is your game this year as compared to last year, do
you think you are playing better?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I think I am more of a complete player than I was
last year.  I think I have got -- I feel more confident with my
backhand and all-around I think my strokes have improved.  They
are more solid now than last year.

 Q. Steffi, do you feel when Monica returns the issue of her
being seeded or how she might be seeded in a particular tournament
how should that be handled?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I am not an official, so don't ask me. I am just
a player.

 Q. Thank you.     


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT