U.S. OPEN
September 7, 1992
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Steffi, do you feel like you played your match well;
as strong as the score looked?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No, I think there were a few games that I wasn't too happy
with, but overall, I think it was okay.

 Q.   Are you pleased with your performance overall in the
matches you played and getting ready, feeling yourself building
up?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Not 100% yet, tell you the truth.  I think the matches weren't
too bad, but overall I think there were a few times when I wasn't
really happy with the way I played.  I think I was lacking a little
bit of consistency.

 Q.   Is your shoulder-- is it a possibility that you might
take a protracted break?

 STEFFI GRAF:  What?

 Q.   That you might take a rest to try and get rid of this
shoulder problem?     

 STEFFI GRAF:  It wouldn't work.  I have done it before, twice, and every
time I did it, it was just the same when I started off.  So it
is really nothing that helps a lot.  It is just that I really
have to do a lot of gymnastics for it.  That is what I have to
do to strengthen the muscle around it.  It doesn't happen if I
rest.  Not at all. Something-- it is even worse after that.

 Q.   How much has it been bothering you?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Not at all.  Not at all, this tournament.

 Q.   It sounds like you feel you are going to have to play
better than this, I guess to beat Arantxa?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yes, I definitely have to.  That is what I have said, consistency
is going to be really important in the next match.  She is somebody
who doesn't give away any points, so you to have work for them.
 You are not really allowed to give them away too easily, because
then she is going to be right there, and so, I have to show a
little bit better of concentration.

 Q.   How much concern is there whether you can do that; or
is it something you have done before in these tournaments-- so
you are pretty sure that you can do it?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yeah, I think I will be ready.  I mean, it is always different
if you play somebody who is a ranked player, Sanchez or any similar
player, and it is the quarters, so that will be a factor too.
 I mean, I am looking forward to it, and I will be a bit more
motivated.

 Q.   Have you played her before and have you ever seen her
forehand like that?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No.  I saw her play once, but I didn't remember the forehand.
 Well, to tell you the truth, I mean, again today I saw she--
I thought she was a right-hander, I don't know, I am not surprised
when I saw this morning, she was a left-hander, but -- I don't
know.

 Q.   Steffi, you have played on such a high level of tennis
for so long.  Are you more critical of yourself if you miss a
shot like maybe you know you should have made or something like
that?  Are you getting to be too critical on yourself, too hard?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I always was, but as I am getting -- I am getting really
worse.  It is a problem that I have at the moment.  I am really
trying to play better than I am playing, and I really am really
getting upset really quickly with my game, the last few days,
so, yeah, I am getting more critical.  I wish I wouldn't.

 Q.   Can I just ask you, if in your opinion, the fact that
Monica is quieter now on the court, has that affected her game
in any way?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I haven't seen her play since Wimbledon, so I have not the
slightest idea.  I don't know.

 Q.   Do you think the Olympics has slightly put the top women
players out of their stride for the sort of post-Wimbledon period
and now -- because maybe people aren't playing quite as well,
do you think that is because of the effect of the Olympics, possibly
coming so soon after Wimbledon, people are kind have been maladjusted
by it?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Well, it is-- for me it was really difficult tell to play
Wimbledon; then play Federation Cup and then having to be ready
for the Olympics.  Then have to go, like, two days later I was
on my way to the States, and I think that is really tiring for
yourself; I think for all the other players too, because you have
to concentrate on every tournament so much, that you just don't
have any rest, you don't really have any time to get away from
it. And because every time is a new change from grass; you have
to go to clay; then you have to quickly change to hard courts.
 That is not too easy.  So I think that is something that, for
sure, was for Jennifer too.

 Q.   How hungry are you for the title now compared to previous
years?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Very hungry.

 Q.   Thank you.  


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT