U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1992
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   As you go into the fourth round, Steffi, which aspects
of your game are pleasing you and which do you think need work?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Well, I think I am really pleased with the way
I served.  The one thing that I haven't been happy with is my
return.  Again today, probably in the beginning of the first set,
or mainly throughout the first set, I don't think I returned,
really, too well.  And I think with my backhand, I can step in
a little bit more.  My slice has not really the punch that I want
it to have.

 Q.   Steffi, you haven't been so happy with the way you are
playing.  Do you feel like it is going to click right next week?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I didn't really have opponents who give you any,
really, rhythm, or let you get into your game.  I will have some
tougher matches, which I think will help.     

 Q.   Talk about the upsets with Jennifer and Martina.  Was
either one more shocking than the other?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I think the shocking one was probably Martina losing
to Magdalena.  Even if she had a first tough round and was nearly
losing there, but I didn't really expect her to lose, because
she really likes to play on that court, and she is always a big
threat at the U.S. Open.  That is why I was surprised.  With Jennifer,
I wasn't so surprised because there has been, again, a lot of
pressure on her and there has been too much talk about winning
this title.  So I wasn't that surprised.

 Q.   Do you look at the next match any differently since Martina's
upset?  Does it make it a little easier on you to focus --

 STEFFI GRAF:  On the upsets?

 Q.   You could see that it could happen to anyone.

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yeah, I mean, you have to really watch out now
in the early rounds.  That is what I have been saying. That is
why the women's tennis has gotten so much better because of everybody
really improving, and that is why I take every rounds seriously.


 Q.   How important is mental toughness, would you say, in
winning a competition like this one?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Very important.  I mean, it is mental toughness,
confidence and to really have your game together.  These three
components are the most important.

 Q.   Did you like the way she played you especially in the
first set?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Today?

 Q.   Going for the shots?

 STEFFI GRAF:  She did definitely go for her shots.  She did it
awfully well.  I have to really give her credit. She-- I mean,
I saw her the first time this morning before I practiced on the
court.  She had been playing there already, so I kind of knew
what to expect, what kind of game, but didn't thought she was
going to be that consistent on it, especially in the first set.


 Q.   You prefer these 11:00 A.M. starts, rather than some
of the other times?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yeah, I like to play early.  Play early, to have
a certain time where you will be playing.  You don't have to wait
and sit around.  You can come in early, practice, and then get
out of there.

 Q.   How do you spend the rest of the day?

 STEFFI GRAF:  There is an arts market in Greenwich this weekend.
 Try to see if there is something interesting.     

 Q.   Steffi, in a reference to your T-shirt, have you ever
seen the Yankees play?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No.  Only on TV.  Only time I have been to Yankee
Stadium was for a "U2" concert.  I did see the Mets
play the Braves this week.  But I haven't seen the Yankees yet.


 Q.   Are you a baseball fan?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No, I am just slowly getting into it, the sport.
 I haven't really followed it that much.  I mean, for the past
year, so I am getting into it.

 Q.   Do you think Monica is back to her game again after those
three consecutive final tournament losses?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Oh, yeah.  I definitely think so.  Just being part
of the U.S. Open, knowing that you played a Grand Slam tournament,
I think that is already motivation that focuses you, even if you
have lost before.

 Q.   Are you surprised here you are not going to play Nathalie
Tauziat now and the way she lost in the last round?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I was surprised the way she lost.  I mean, I know
Amanda is a really good player and she is really playing well
this year, but I didn't expect it to be 6-Love, 6-Love.  I didn't
know what happened to her.  

 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT