U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1992
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Are you quite satisfied with your performance, this morning?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Not really.  I think my -- overall, I think I played
good.  Only thing that really bothered me was my return.  I didn't
really return so well.  Otherwise, it was all right.

 Q.   We were talking with Pam Shriver about that match you
had with her, the three set, three tiebreaker match, several years
ago.  She said, more than anything, that might have been the match
that launched your career, at least, to the top.  Would you agree
with that sort of assessment?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Well, it is-- we have been talking, a few days
ago about it, actually, and I have been asked which one was the
most memorable match of the U.S. Open.  It is definitely that
one, because it meant a lot to me.  It was a thrilling match.
 It wasn't like -- it was a very-- I think from my point of view,
it was a really good game.  I enjoyed it the most and I have a
lot of good memories about it.  It is a good chance, that it helped
me a lot after that.

 Q.   Steffi, when you see an older player like Pam perform
the way she did, playing intelligently, is that something that
you can appreciate about how much it takes for her to do that?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Yeah, I mean she -- there are not many players
around anymore that play like her, that is for sure.  There are
not many serve and volley players, so it is getting more difficult
to play against them because you rarely have these chances to
play them.  But, still, you know, it is not going to be an easy
match, you know.  She is going to try everything to win the match
or try to play as good as she can.

 Q.   Steffi, do you find here, especially on that court, you
have to spend a lot more energy and try to focus on the match
because of so many distractions and noise?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Not really.  I don't think so.  I think the center
court and grandstand are very similar.  On both courts, people
are walking behind you.  There is always a lot of noise around.
 I never really had any trouble to concentrate or just to focus
on the match.  I never really had.

 Q.   Does the weather, being damp, make any difference with
your shoulder?

 STEFFI GRAF:  No, my shoulder is absolutely fine.  There is nothing
that is bothering me now.

 Q.   Steffi, this is a question about Jennifer. She has expressed
a lot of confidence since her gold medal victory in Barcelona.
 Should she take away that much confidence from one match against
you, one victory?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I think it is -- I mean, you never really can say
what kind of matches or what kind of things -- what kind of turns
your confidence around, but I think it meant a lot to her.  She
really was -- she was very happy about it, and she was really,
I think, playing some great tennis.  I think -- she definitely
got a lot of confidence out of it from what I hear and how she
has been playing lately.

 Q.   Do you think she can take it on a role here, perhaps
and win?

 STEFFI GRAF:  I don't know.  I think it is a tough tournament.
 A lot of players have chances to win and she is definitely one
of them.  But it will be tough.

 Q.   How many players do you think realistically can win?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Five or six.  Five, I would say.

 Q.   If you win, in your mind, winning Wimbledon and the U.S.
Open, do you--

 STEFFI GRAF:  Do I look at myself being the number one of the
year?  I have heard that one before.  No, I don't.

 Q.   Do you think any differently about being number one now
in your career than, say, when you were really on the hot run,
'88, right around there?  Does number one mean anything different
to you?

 STEFFI GRAF:  Not right now.  I mean, not at all.  I mean, I
have had it and I have had it for a long time, so I think it doesn't
really mean that much to me, right now.  Not at all.  Maybe it
does at another time, but I don't care about it, right now.

 Q.   Thank you, very much.    


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT