U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1992
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How come you lost two games, Steffi?

STEFFI GRAF: Well, I don't know. It is difficult if you start
off like that. I mean, to keep going all the way through it is
difficult.

Q. How is your shoulder? It looks as if you had no problem
with your shoulder or your cold. Is that because --

STEFFI GRAF: My shoulder has been really fine for the past week
now. Without any problems at all. My cold is almost gone, and
so I am feeling a lot better. I tell you that.

Q. What did you feel when you won the first ten games? Did
you feel like you were really on or she just wasn't --

STEFFI GRAF: Actually, it was quite the winners. So I was surprised
I played a consistent result without making any mistakes. She
obviously doesn't have the game to really push you harder. You
can take your time, wait for the right shot. That is what I really
did; plus you're patient in the beginning, then I went for it.
I was happy that actually I have been playing a lot with men to
adjust a little bit.

Q. Have you been told that now that you say your shoulder has
been feeling fine for a week, that it is unlikely to be a problem
or is there a chance that it could come back?

STEFFI GRAF: It is something that I have chronic now, which means
it can come back whenever. That is what it has been doing for
the last few months now. It started beginning of last -- middle
of last year. It was pretty good in the beginning of the year.
When I worked a lot on blades and a lot with gymnastic. But I
haven't really been doing that too much, so I started doing it
again.

Q. So you have to sort of live with that uncertainty, until
you get a stretch where you get enough time off to fully --

STEFFI GRAF: It doesn't help. I tried it twice now to take off
time, and I did it last year for three weeks and I have been trying
it, and it is something that -- there is nothing really I can
do about it. 

Q. Is there something that is likely to trigger the ailment
when you say it is chronic, be it a serve, a forehand; be it fatigue,
something during the match that can trigger it?

STEFFI GRAF: Not really. No. The problem is you know coming on
different surfaces, really, to adjust to the different bounces,
that is when I have to -- when I am miss-hitting the balls or
something like that; that is when it starts, and it starts the
inflammation really.

Q. Are the rigors of a two week tournament like this something
as likely to create a fresh problem with it?

STEFFI GRAF: Sorry.

Q. Will the rigors of the two week tournament like this, in
this kind of format, the kind of thing that would likely create
a problem with it?

STEFFI GRAF: I don't know. I hope not. It has been good for the
past week, but you never know.

Q. What surface is most problematic?

STEFFI GRAF: Clay. I mean, clay really hurt me a lot after coming
from the Grand Slam really very difficult. I mean, during Federation
Cup, I took a lot of pills with it to be able to play, and so
the clay was really very difficult. Then to change again from
hard courts, just when you change courts, it is really getting
difficult. 

Q. Is this a more true surface?

STEFFI GRAF: A more what?

Q. True surface, more consistent?

STEFFI GRAF: Yeah. Definitely. It is a little better.

Q. When you are beating somebody like that that you did in
the first ten games, what is your feeling for her, do you have
any?

STEFFI GRAF: Well, tell you the truth, I mean, you just -- you
don't get tougher competition, that is all. You are like -- I
mean, if you played like that you want to have some tough points;
you want to work hard for them. And so I mean, you feel that you
definitely feel for her, but you are also disappointed. 

Q. Going back to your shoulder, is it something that -- is
it something that you are reconciled to having to live with or
is it something that you could say, if it takes six months and
I have got to get it fixed by surgery, is it something--

STEFFI GRAF: It is nothing that you can do with surgery. It is
not. I mean, it is difficult for me to really say. Underneath
the caps in between that thing, in between -- Forget it. It is
nothing really that has to do with the bone itself, that you can
get away easy. It just gets inflamed all the time. 

Q. Jennifer Capriati said a couple of weeks ago, Steffi, that
no matter what happens here, she believes Seles is going to be
number one at the end of the year. Do you feel--

STEFFI GRAF: Yes, I see it the same way. Definitely see it the
same way.

Q. So even if you win here and you have won Wimbledon and the
Open?

STEFFI GRAF: Yeah.

Q. Why do you think she is number one even if you take the
last two?

STEFFI GRAF: Well, I mean she has been more consistent player
than I have been this year, especially in the beginning of the
year, that is what you got to look at. You got to look at the
whole year; not just a few matches.

Q. On Wednesday Jimmy is going to play his first round match.
It is his 40th birthday. How do you see that -- what do you think
of that that he is still playing stadium court at the U.S. Open?

STEFFI GRAF: It is just incredible looking at it. I mean, looking
at him and seeing him still the way he plays now, I mean, you
got to respect that man so much. It is just -- you got to really
idolize him actually, because it is something I don't think really
anybody has done before. 

Q. Will you watch the match?

STEFFI GRAF: I have been always watching him. I mean, always interesting
fights that he has on the court, it is for any tennis player,
you still learn so much from him.

Q. What do you make of Jimmy playing Martina?

STEFFI GRAF: It is exhibition. I don't really look at it as anything
important.

Q. Steffi, do you fear that -- your game is playing back obviously,
but do you fear that any approaches in volleys are more likely
to cause trouble for your shoulder than staying back?

STEFFI GRAF: I don't know. I mean, it is difficult to say really,
but I mean, it is -- I don't know. I think whatever match, it
doesn't really matter if that person comes to the net or not.


Q. But for you, it is basically, it is unnatural for you to
volley?

STEFFI GRAF: Yes.

Q. Is it unlikely that you will be doing much of that at all,
because--

STEFFI GRAF: No.

Q. -- Your shoulder is raised into an unnatural position?

STEFFI GRAF: No, it is not really the volley that hurts me too
much. Tell you the truth. It is more the back -- the groundstrokes
really bother me.

Q. Steffi, you have won just about everything. Which title
do you treasure most and which would you like to win most again?

STEFFI GRAF: Wimbledon. I mean, that is the one that is important
to me the most. 

End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT