NCAA MEN'S GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2018
Brandon Mancheno
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're honored to be joined tonight by our national runner up, Brandon Mancheno from Auburn University.  Brandon, just some opening remarks and talk a little bit about your round today and obviously being able to get to the playoff hole, your mindset going to the extra hole today.
BRANDON MANCHENO: It was a great week for me, especially being a freshman.  I wanted to really focus on helping my team get to match play this week, and we did that, so I'm happy we have the opportunity as a team.  The playoff was -- it was exciting.  He made a good putt on me, and I'm happy for him.
The round today was tough.  The wind was up, and it was just playing tough for everyone.  I just tried to stay calm and stick to my routine, and I played all right, and I had a chance to win, so I was very happy.
Q. What was the biggest adjustment for you today?  The wind was up the first three days.  Talk about having to adjust your game with the wind.
BRANDON MANCHENO: Some holes played a little bit longer, like 17, they had the tee all the way back, so we really were just trying to hit the fairway there and get on the green.  That's a par hole.  Some of the holes that were birdie holes yesterday were definitely par holes today, and the pins were in tough spots.  You just really had to miss it in the right spot, and if you didn't, this course is going to make you pay.
Q. Talk a little bit about going into tomorrow; obviously a long four days of golf, now you have to switch gears a little bit, going to match play.  What kind of adjustment will that be for you?
BRANDON MANCHENO: It frees me up a little bit more, honestly.  Now I can just go out and play aggressive, and it's exciting to have the opportunity to do this.  I think me and my teammates are really excited for the task at hand.  Oklahoma is a great team, so we have a good task tomorrow.
Q. As a freshman, to be able to get to where you were today, what were your goals coming into this championship and to be able to get there obviously to achieve that?
BRANDON MANCHENO: Coming into this championship, I just wanted to have a solid week and put myself in contention, which I did.  I mean, I worked hard all season coming into this, so I felt prepared, and this course suited my game pretty well.  I was feeling good about this week.  It was a good week for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT