NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v MAVERICKS
May 18, 2011
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You've been with him the longest. Talk about how Dirk's game has evolved from what it was earlier. 
 JASON TERRY: Well, Dirk's transformation started about four years ago when Avery tried to get him to post-up a little more and not shoot so many threes. I think he really worked on it, and he's been doing it tremendously well in this postseason. Not only does he go to work in the post, but he makes his teammates better by making the pass.

 Q. What kind of transformation was that for him to make as a basketball player, how difficult? 
 JASON TERRY: Oh, it's tough, it's tough, because when you're used to doing one thing so well and so often, it's like, why change? What it's done is made his overall game better.

 Q. With his versatility and his size, it makes him such a unique set of circumstances to deal with for a defender, but it's something that you guys have seen now for so many years. Just talk about how his size element does make things so much more difficult for defenders. 
 JASON TERRY: Well, seven feet, not a lot of guys can contest or block that shot. Again, he's looking down into the rim. If he has space, he's going to get a shot off.

 Q. How much space was he getting really?
 JASON TERRY: Not much. Some of those shots were really difficult. As we watched the film, a lot of them were great efforts. That's just what Dirk does. He makes shots.

 Q. What do you guys have to keep in mind in terms of how they change up on him? 
 JASON TERRY: Well, we've seen a lot of defenses over the years changing up, giving different looks for Dirk, so we know how to counter whatever they throw at us. For us it's our mentality to continue to be aggressive and not overwork Dirk. We don't want him to wear down, so to speak.

 Q. You guys know the attention is going to be on him now because of the performance that he had in Game 1. I'm sure as role players you guys are more than ready now. 
 JASON TERRY: You've got to believe they don't want to give him 24 free throws or 48 points. Either way, it's not going to be good for them. He's going to have a lot of attention, but the rest of us are ready. We're ready for the pressure. We know if he's doubled, we're going to have to make plays to be successful. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT