NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 18, 2006
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Can you talk about you guys going home now down 3-2, what's kind of the team mentality right now about having to defend the home court?   
 JASON TERRY:  Well, we've got to come out in Game 6 with a controlled anger.  We're definitely disappoint about our performance in these three games here.  So we'll put that behind us, go home to a great crowd, great atmosphere.  That's what home-court advantage is all about.  We know we'll be ready.   
 Mentally we're a very strong team.  You know, there's nothing we haven't seen.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the last play with the time-out situation, and talk about how the other players stepped up tonight.   
 JASON TERRY:  I really can't comment on that last play.  Didn't really know what transpired.  So we have to watch the film and see.   
 But overall, I just thought we came out, we answered the call.  We were facing adversity.  I liked our energy, our focus.  We were concentrating on every possession.  You know, it's a game of mistakes.  But come down to the last play, for it to be won or lost on a foul call is just disappointing, disheartening.  Like I said, it's the NBA Finals.  We're going to bounce back, we're excited about the opportunity and we're going home.   
  
  Q.  You've seen a lot of stuff in your career, how do you characterize the last three games the way things have shaken down for your team in Miami?   
 JASON TERRY:  We're blessed and fortunate just to be in the position we are.  We know that.   
 They did what they had to do.  Give them credit.  They took care of their home court, and now it's our turn to take care of ours.  We're definitely looking forward to it.   
  
  Q.  You said "controlled anger."  Is your team angry right now?   
 JASON TERRY:  Oh, yeah.  There's no question about it.  I mean, if you're feeling any other way, then you shouldn't be here, you shouldn't be in a Maverick uniform.  We're disappointed, but when we go home, we're going to control that anger, we'll have Stackhouse back, and we'll be ready to go.   
  
  Q.  Angry about the loss or the sequences that led to the loss?   
 JASON TERRY:  A little bit of everything.   
  
  Q.  Was fatigue a factor tonight because you had to play extra minutes with Stackhouse out of the line-up?   
 JASON TERRY:  Not at all.  We're a well-conditioned team, we've prepared for this all year long.  We have all summer long to rest.  We'll leave it out there on the court every night we step out there.   
  
  Q.  Dirk still seems to be struggling to consistently hit his outside shot.  Is it something that the Heat are doing to him defensively, or is he just in one of those funks where he cannot consistently knock it down?   
 JASON TERRY:  We'll see, we'll go home, get some home cooking and Dirk will be ready.  We're not concerned about anything Dirk does offensively.  I thought he was there all night defensively.  The way they are playing him, they are basically in a box in one and bringing another guy over, so it's tough for him to get his shots.   
 When he does have an opportunity, he's being aggressive, he's taking the ball strong to the hole and that's all we can ask of him.   
  
  Q.  That box in one, is that something you are unaccustomed to seeing defensively?   
 JASON TERRY:  No, teams have tried that on us before, San Antonio, Memphis.  We'll be ready, it doesn't matter, we still had our opportunities to win the game.  We didn't take advantage of them, but like I said, we're going home, and we'll see in Game 6.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT