NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 13, 2006
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  The Heat had a comeback in the last fourth quarter in the last game, too; obviously it didn't turn out like this.  What's happening from your guys' end in these two fourth quarters? 
 JASON TERRY:  We have to give them a lot of credit.  Tonight they came out with great energy.  They got off to a great start.  We made a run at them.  As you know, basketball is a game of runs.  We just didn't execute down the stretch defensively or offensively.  They were the aggressor at the end of the game and they really took this game tonight. 

 Q.  How do you guys keep this from snowballing mentally, both for them and for you, and just make this a one-game kind of collapse? 
 JASON TERRY:  Well, we've been great through adversity all season long, and this is no different.  We'll look at the film, go back and correct the mistakes that we made.  I think that's what we've done a great job with all season.  We're a very mentally tough team, and we knew Miami was going to come with everything they had tonight.  You know, give them a lot of credit.  They really came out and wanted the game on both ends of the floor. 

 Q.  Dirk talked about a possible overconfidence on your guys' part in the fourth quarter. 
 JASON TERRY:  No, I mean, we're a very confident team.  You know, our confidence is at an even keel.  I just think we didn't execute.  It's obvious.  We don't score; they do. 
 And that's what it is.  These games come down to the fourth quarter.  You have to execute.  With five minutes left, they were the better team tonight. 

 Q.  Talk about guarding Dwyane Wade tonight, how tough was it? 
 JASON TERRY:  Oh, it was very tough.  You know, he's a tough matchup, any night.  And tonight he really had it on his mind that he was going to be aggressive getting to the basket, especially in that fourth quarter, he really, really took over.  So, you know, we'll watch the film, make adjustments and come back Thursday ready to go. 

 Q.  All through the night, Dirk Nowitzki had another wonderful night at the line, missed the last free throw at the very end obviously.  How much do you think the extra exuberance that the crowd showed behind the basket affected his last free throw attempt? 
 JASON TERRY:  We're all professionals.  You know the crowd is going to be crazy.  I don't think that had much of a factor if, any, on that last free throw.  We all missed free throws throughout the game so, we're not looking at that one play as that cost us the game or anything.  You have a big lead with five minutes left in the game, and we just didn't execute. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT