NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 29, 2006
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Does that translate into the defensive end?  He said it really starts with defense, if the defense is active.  He tends to be more active offensively?   
 JASON TERRY:  He's more alert, more alert and he's down and ready.  You can tell from the tip what Josh is going to do.  We love it.   
  Q.  Looks like they play off Steve Nash and always try to find a way to win that game?  How do you prepare for that?   
 JASON TERRY:  We prepare the same way.  We don't variate from our system whatsoever.  We have to come out and execute.   
  Q.  In the first part you and Steve seemed to get tangled up and elbow (inaudible) got cut?   
 JASON TERRY:  I don't even remember the play.  Bodies get tangled every game.  So I don't know.   
  Q.  Jason, are you superstitious at all?   
 JASON TERRY:  Yeah, I've got too many of them.  A list of them.  Sleep in the shorts before the game.  Gotta have my long socks.  Eat chicken before every game, same meal.  It's a number of them.   
  Q.  What happens if things don't go right, what happens?   
 JASON TERRY:  Don't even want to think about what happens.   
  Q.  Do you throw it out, though, do you switch up the meal?   
 JASON TERRY:  I try to divert it some way, but, you know, it never seems to work.   
 But at this point of the season I'm on it.  I'm not going to slip up.   
  Q.  So like with Josh, with 23-0 scoring 20 points, if you wore pink polka dots to every game every time you knew you wore them you'd be 22-0, would you keep wearing them?   
 JASON TERRY:  No doubt.   
  Q.  Is winning Game 4 a knockout punch?   
 JASON TERRY:  No, it's not a knockout punch, but it's a game, it's a must-win for us.  Our approach is playing like it's a Game 7.  We're not going to change our mind set.   
  Q.  This team showed a lot of toughness last night, your team seemed like things were going against you and then there was sort of the flare-up with Thomas.  Did you guys draw energy from that?  It looked like that?   
 JASON TERRY:  Not at all.  It was a situation where we're standing together.  He walks right through us.  Stuff happens in a game.   
 Like I said, it's the Western Conference Finals.  And guys are going to do whatever it takes.  That was just a situation where, you know, it was kind of edgy.  The momentum was shifting either way.  They benefited from it more than we did.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT