NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 28, 2006
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Jason, how important was it or how nice was it for you to have a game like this after struggling the last few? 
 JASON TERRY:  Tonight was a little bit of a struggle also.  Picked up two early fouls.  My job was to be aggressive for my team.  I was able to do that especially in the second half.  The guys were second picks and giving me wide-open looks. 
 Q.  Jason, what have you guys done to contain their fast break, they've gone from 32 to 21, tonight only 4 fast break points? 
 JASON TERRY:  Well, we've just tried to get back at all costs, pick up the closest man to you and really just not crash the board with three and four guys.  If you have opportunity to get a loose rebound like we did in the fourth quarter, we'll take it. 
 But it's not our focus to just run in there and not get back on defense.  These guys are so dangerous when they're out there in transition, and, you know, our focus solely first on defense is to get back. 
 Q.  Can you talk about what you and Josh did in the second half about making key plays down the stretch? 
 JASON TERRY:  Well, I thought Josh was very active with his hands.  He got his hands on plenty of balls.  There was plenty of us, Diop blocked some shots, Dirk blocked a big shot.  Stackhouse.  We made enough defensive plays down the stretch, when we needed to get stops we were able to do so, then we executed offensively. 
 That's what these playoffs are about, getting to the fourth quarter and being able to execute on both ends of the floor. 
 Q.  How has Diop impacted your team offensively? 
 JASON TERRY:  For a big man he's moving his feet very well.  He's had to switch out on guys like Nash and Barbosa and he's able to contain and not get penetrated on as easy.  He's a presence.  He's a presence in the middle and then defensively he doesn't hurt us because he can still run, he's athletic enough to get back and match up. 
 Q.  Talk about your slow start and how you -- you always stay aggressive anyway, but talk about how you got the slow start, the fouls and second half you played well? 
 JASON TERRY:  My plan tonight was to come out extremely aggressive.  I guess I was a little too aggressive, drew a charge on Steve Nash right there at the first two-minute mark.  And it really had me passive until half time. 
 But, you know, I broke out of it.  My teammates encouraged me.  Rolando Blackman stayed in my ear on the bench watching the game the second half, take advantage of your opportunities.  If you can get to the basket do so.  If the jumper is there take it.  That's what I was able to do. 
 Q.  You guys had very few turnovers tonight especially in the second half.  Just talk about how you guys were able to keep control of the ball and keep it out of their hands? 
 JASON TERRY:  We learned from our mistakes in Game 1, where we got to the fourth quarter, we had four or five turnovers.  That was very uncharacteristic of us.  We got to value every possession as you know every possession is critical, especially at this point. 
 Q.  Avery is a perfectionist when it comes to defense, how happy is he with your guys's progress in that category? 
 JASON TERRY:  We still got a ways to go.  If we look at our first half we should be a little disappointed with our start in the first quarter.  We did not execute well at all. 
 But we came out in the second half and really put together some stops which helped us get a lead and take momentum. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT