NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 25, 2006
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How possible is it for you all to revert back to old habits?  Can that happen after all (inaudible)? 
 JASON TERRY:  Revert back to old habits? 
 Q.  Old bad habits. 
 JASON TERRY:  Old bad habits.  Man, that's what happened last game.  Watching the film we're extremely disappointed in our effort defensively.  We've watched the tape.  We've been here before.  We've had games where we just don't look like ourselves and we've bounced back great and that's what we'll have to do in Game 2. 
 Q.  How many times did you hear Avery say transition defense out there? 
 JASON TERRY:  That was a point of emphasis for today.  We definitely know it has to be way better than what it was in Game 1.  And it just takes time to get used to the pace they play and I thought we did that today in practice.  We adjusted to it.  And so now it will on us to get out there and you know get this microphone -- no, it will be on us to get out there and really get after it.  You know really focus and concentrate on getting back and not giving them easy baskets. 
 Q.  Josh's day today, how much did that change (inaudible)? 
 JASON TERRY:  It doesn't change much.  I mean we love to have Josh out there.  He's a big key to what we do.  But our strengths all year long has been our depth.  When guys have been injured we've rallied around and we've got guys to come in and play well. 
 Q.  (On the loss of Raja Bell and Josh Howard)? 
 JASON TERRY:  It takes away one of their shooters and one of our best defenders.  So it kind of balances out. 
 Q.  How frustrating is it to put what you feel like is pretty good defense on Steve Nash and have him flip some circus shot and go in? 
 JASON TERRY:  That's why we're taught good D.  Weren't watching the same game as me.  We can play a lot better on Nash and all their guys. 
 We didn't execute our game plan at all going into Game 2 as I said we'll come out aggressive and we're going to execute on defense and offensively.  Had a nine-point lead with three minutes left.  We're in good position to win that game and we just broke down mentally. 
 Q.  Seems like you guys are in a good mood and okay with -- 
 JASON TERRY:  Man, this is the best time of our lives we're in the Western Conference Finals.  One game doesn't make a series.  And now we got a chance to get that game back tomorrow.  And that's what we're going to do. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT