NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 11, 2011
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jason, you were here in '06, I was wondering if you could comment on what they might be doing differently against Dirk that they weren't doing in '06 and what Dirk is doing against them to play so much better?   
 JASON TERRY: I think it's primarily the same coverages that we've seen then. We talk about all the time they're not going to change their strategy. They are who they are. They play aggressively. They try to take you out of what you want to do and make you play to the weak side. They haven't done anything different than what we've planned for.   
  
  Q. What have you done in the last two days to avoid thinking about the fact that you're right there? You're one game away from the title?   
 JASON TERRY: Nothing at all. I just go every day living in the moment. It's all about this moment right here, knowing that you may not have another opportunity to be in this position again. So you're not thinking about no kind of celebration or what it's going to feel like. We're thinking about coming out in the first quarter, being aggressive, and maintaining that aggression for 48 minutes.   
  
  Q. What do you remember from them celebrating on your court in '06? Did you stop and watch it?   
 JASON TERRY: I remember getting hit in the head with confetti. Just watching them celebrate, ride off on golf carts, champagne bottles and all that. I remember being back in our locker room, myself and Darrell Armstrong holding each other and just crying the night away. Something I'll never forget.   
  
  Q. Hey, Jason, what does it say about Tyson Chandler that he was able to step in and take that charge from LeBron at the end of Game 5 and get the call on what was like a 50/50 call at that point?   
 JASON TERRY: In those type of situations, you can't think about what will happen or what-ifs. It's like I'm either going in and taking the charge and they're going to have to call it. They're going to call it a block or they're going to call it a carry. There was no indecision on his part. It's part of our defensive scheme and he was there. That's something Tyson has given us all year long. He's going to give you 100% effort every time down the floor.   
  
  Q. I know you've used a lot of things for your own motivation during the series, including your own words. When you saw the D-Wade and LeBron video of them imitating Dirk sick, did that get you fired up?   
 JASON TERRY: First of all, I didn't see the video and really don't care. If you need anything other than that trophy to motivate you at this point, you're probably setting yourself up for failure.   
  
  Q. Jason, going back one more time to the 2006, you talked about that you remember all that stuff. How often have you thought about it over the last five years? And even having an opportunity with the ball in your hands at the end of the game, a rushed opportunity or even an opportunity to tie it.   
 JASON TERRY: This is an everyday occurrence for me. Sometimes middle of the night, a lot of times first thing when I wake up in the morning. Definitely every day when I walk into that gym, into that arena, it's something you live with. Obviously, in that game at the end there, I had an opportunity to push it to overtime. What happens in overtime, we'll never know. What we do know is we didn't win, but we're here now. We're here in this moment with an opportunity to win it all.   
  
  Q. You've had games with offensive struggles, last game obviously you guys broke out. Do you feel like now offensively things are being dictated on your terms?   
 JASON TERRY: Last game we made shots that we knew we would get. That's probably been the most frustrating thing about this entire series is having those opportunities that we normally get and we're just not making the shot. Play the percentages, I know as a scorer, as a shooter, myself if I get those same opportunities I'm going to make shots. My teammates are going to make shots. So it's something that all year long we've built our hat on defense. Defense is how we win these games, and offensively, if the shots go in, it makes it even sweeter.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Jason.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT