NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 9, 2011
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Miami Heat  103
  Dallas Mavericks 112

 Q. Jet, Dirk came in here, was very complimentary of your game. He was asked about how you like to talk a little bit, and does that fuel you. So I would like you to respond to that. Does the talk fuel you? He said you like to hear yourself talk a little bit. Can you comment on that? 
 JASON TERRY: Sometimes he puts a muzzle on me. He don't like me to talk to you guys too much because I give away the game plan. It's something I grew up with, watching my idols like Gary Payton and guys like that. Being from the inner city, it's just a part of my game. 

 Q. Jet, you've really stepped up in the fourth quarter of the last two games, but specifically tonight those three-pointers closing it out, how much did you take the responsibility on instead of just putting it on Dirk? 
 JASON TERRY: It's my job. All season long, ever since I've been a Maverick, I've been the guy in the fourth quarter they depended on to either make plays or make shots. So I really relish in that role. Regardless of what's going on throughout three quarters of the game, in the fourth quarter I know I'm depended on to come through. Thank God I was able to do that again tonight. 

 Q. Jason, the dribble penetration, you seem to have added more and more of that, especially with LeBron on you. Is that something you picked up, that you could be successful with? 
 JASON TERRY: Again, just being a student of the game, watching these series play out, Games 1 and 2 you feel it out, you get things on film that you can see where you can be successful. The dribble penetration, yes, is a part of my game. Obviously I know what I'm best at, catch and shoot. But I can put the ball on the floor. I think that's just something maybe they weren't as prepared for. It's something I see where I can have some success and is a part of being aggressive. 

 Q. Jet, you guys hit 68% of your threes tonight. Are you getting better looks or just making wide-open shots? What's the difference in this and the other games? 
 JASON TERRY: We are getting the same looks we knew we would get. After Games 1 and 2, you watch it on film, you see it and then you realize where you're going to have the opportunities. I said to myself, I said to my teammates, we're not going to continue to miss those open shots that we're getting. And so, again, being confident, preparing, getting extra shots in, in those spots is what allow you to go out in the game. 
 And when you get those opportunities, knock them down. 

 Q. Jason, I'm wondering what effect do you think Wade's injury had on his game? Could you see any difference after he came back and in terms of the time he was lost to his team? 
 JASON TERRY: When he came back in the game, he came back aggressive. So I don't know if he was hurt or what. To us it doesn't matter. He was on the floor. He got opportunities. He drove to the basket. So he's a tough cover. If he's out there, he's a threat. 

 Q. Jason, can you take us through the play where you drove and kicked out to J-Kidd for the three. It looked like you were so decisive with that pass. How did you know he was going to be there? 
 JASON TERRY: I had some opportunities in the third quarter where I wasn't as decisive. So I knew once Coach put me back in the game, I had to get something done immediately. I was really looking to get to the basket and draw a foul. They do a great job of help defense. My outlet was Jason Kidd. He shoots it well from the shot he was in. The right decision. The right play to make. 

 Q. Jason, how critical was it to win this final home game for the fans, not just from the standpoint of going down 3-2? 
 JASON TERRY: The fans have been great. They're the best in the business. We really take pride in our home-court advantage. We use it as an edge. And from the tip they were into it. It's something that we love. We cherish it. And now we have to go on the road and take care of business. We want to win this thing for them as much as we do for ourselves. 

 Q. Jason, five years ago you guys got to two. You never got any further. You never got that third win. What is your feeling right now going to Miami? 
 JASON TERRY: Game 6. It's the first one to win four. We have our opportunity in Game 6. We must go out, play aggressively and take advantage of our opportunity. 

 Q. Jason, can you take us through that deep three that put you up seven late, shot clock running down. Describe that play for us. 
 JASON TERRY: Preparation for me. It's something I do at the end of my workouts. Get into a good rhythm. Rhythm dribble. If there's space, I'm going to let it fly. The clock was winding down. It's just like being out there on the playground back home in Seattle. Emulating your idols in The Finals situation, game on the line. Raise up, knock it down. 

 Q. Would you have taken it with more time on the clock? 
 JASON TERRY: I definitely would have. (Laughter). Dirk don't want to hear that. I may have in that situation. I really wanted the ball in that situation. Jason Kidd got it to me and I was in rhythm. 

 Q. Jason, you said you needed to treat Game 5 like it was Game 7. Now, do you feel you need to treat Game 6 like it is Game 7 in order to avoid the actual Game 7? 
 JASON TERRY: Sounds repetitive, but yes. Game 6 is Game 7 for us. We want to play like there's no tomorrow. If we do that, I have no doubt in my mind we can be successful. We must come out aggressively. 
 Tonight was great. We came out offensively and found our rhythm. Defensively we took a step backwards. We didn't have the same focus on certain areas in the game for 48 minutes. And so I said if we can get to 100, we like our chances. We did that, but we definitely don't want to give them 100 points. Because then it leaves the window of opportunity for them to get a win. 

 Q. Jason, a lot of teams and a lot of players talk about being unselfish. But this team really seems to thrive on that. You guys are always willing to make the extra pass for whoever is open. Can you just talk about whether it's yourself or Dirk or someone kicking out to make the extra pass and it really resulted in nearly 70% three-point shooting. 
 JASON TERRY: It's all about our leader Jason Kidd. The way he plays the game, the way he has always played the game rubs off. The extra pass for us is what we have to do to be successful. We have two or three guys maybe that can break you down and penetrate and get in the lane. But for the most part, we do it with spacing, we do it with the extra pass. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Jason.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT