NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 8, 2011
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   JASON TERRY: Dwyane Wade is the best rebounding guard in the basketball. So your job is not done after the initial play. You still have to box out. 

 Q. Were you surprised sometimes they put guys in the parking lot, it will be Dwyane or LeBron and the other guy sort of on the side? 
 JASON TERRY: Not necessarily. They got great players. Their job is to get their players in the situation to be successful. It's worked for them. That's why they're here right now. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 JASON TERRY: Bittersweet. Sweet we got the win. But again, the opportunities we're getting we haven't seized the moment and taken advantage of them. 

 Q. Can you talk last night, Shawn goes down with the calf, Haywood goes out with the hip, Dirk gets sick. Despite that, you guys are down nine and come back to win. How do you explain what this team is doing, with guys going down, you guys coming back and winning games like that last night? 
 JASON TERRY: All our guys are prepared and ready in any type of situation. Guys go down, somebody has to step up. DeShawn Stevenson last night was counted on to play a lot of minutes. And he performed and performed well. 

 Q. Did you think maybe it may be easier to go around LeBron and get to the rim instead of taking shots over him? 
 JASON TERRY: I'm going to take what the defense gives me and be aggressive. I can't look at it as I'm going to drive this time, or I'm going to take the jumper this time. It's whatever the defense gives me, and I have to be aggressive and look for those opportunities. When the opportunity is this, take advantage. Still have not found the range in this series. 

 Q. What's the collective mindset when you know you need to get it done? 
 JASON TERRY: The ultimate objective is to win at all costs. As long as there's time on that clock, we're going to play it all the way out. I think that's what has kept us in these games and allows us to continue to come back if we get down. 

 Q. How are you feeling? You had a bone bruise --
 JASON TERRY: It's getting better. That's encouraging for me. As it does, hopefully these shots are start to go down. A couple of them were in and out. Can't blame that on the wrist. 

 Q. How much did LeBron's struggles last night have to do with the defense you guys put on them? 
 JASON TERRY: I don't think LeBron struggled at all. Watching the film, he was a facilitator. Eight points, nine assists, something like that. He let Dwyane do his thing last night, which is what they've done throughout the season. They take turns. You can't look at it that he had a hard game. It was a situation where he wanted to facilitate. Bosh had a tremendous night. I think they executed what they wanted to, they just didn't get the outcome. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT