NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 6, 2011
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How can your bench be more productive? You guys were lights out against the Lakers and the Thunder and struggled at times in this series. What about the bench?   
 JASON TERRY: We have to be more aggressive. More aggressive and looking for early opportunities offensively. And then defensively hold our own.   
  
  Q. Jet, do you feel you've gotten a little cold with your shot in the fourth quarter? Or is it all LeBron's defense?   
 JASON TERRY: I have to get more opportunities at the basket to be effective. That's on me, being aggressive, looking for more opportunities.   
  
  Q. You own the fourth quarter. You were third in the entire league in the fourth-quarter scoring. You didn't score in Games 1 and 3. How much do you take that on yourself?   
 JASON TERRY: I take it to heart. Obviously the success of this team is predicated in the fourth quarter, myself and Dirk, being opportunistic with the basketball. He's had a lot of opportunity and gotten it done. Two out of three games I have not. He needs some help. I'll be there to lend him a hand the rest of the way.   
  
  Q. When you don't score in the fourth quarter, where does the burden go?   
 JASON TERRY: Our record is not good. Give them credit. They are doing a good job defensively. We're going to take some of that ownership upon myself and be a lot more aggressive and assertive in those situations.   
  
  Q. How much does your bench dominate --  
 JASON TERRY: It's hard to say. They don't really play their bench like those other series where it's our five and their five. It's more like they may answer with one or two guys. But for the majority of the time they have LeBron or Dwyane Wade or Chris Bosh or a combination of two or three of those guys on the floor in that situation.   
 So it's really not a matchup of the benches. We should outscore them, which I think we have two out of the three games. So we really can't look at that as a factor.  
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT