NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 4, 2011
Jason Terry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Hey, Jet. All season you've been a closer for this team in the fourth quarter, but you've struggled some in the playoffs. Do you think that Game 2, fourth quarter maybe get you going in that respect? 
 JASON TERRY: I hope so. For me, obviously in the playoffs, teams are going to lock in to what you're doing. They're going to beat you to the spots that you like to get to. But the good players seem to get it done anyway. Hopefully that will be a good sign of things to come, and we'll see what happens. But I'm going to continue to be aggressive and continue to look for opportunities. 

 Q. With the two off days between games, do you expect there to be any real tangible momentum carried over by you guys after the way you finished the other night? And do you think also, if I can two-part it, can the importance of a Game 3 be overstated? There's a stat that teams that win Game 3 end up winning it all more often than not. I'm curious if you think that tomorrow night will be a stranglehold for the series for the winner. 
 JASON TERRY: Regardless of what the stats say, we know what we have to do to come out and be successful. We're coming home. This is a home-coming for us. We really want to come out early on in the game, feel good about ourselves and come out and play Maverick basketball, which we have not done consistently for 48 minutes in this series. 

 Q. Miami has shot more threes in this series than they have free-throws. How good of a sign is that for you guys? And what are you guys doing to contribute to that fact? 
 JASON TERRY: Some of those shots they're taking are with the shot clock winding down and they're really forced into taking some tough shots. They're making some of them, too. LeBron is shooting exceptionally well in this Finals from long range. For us, we want to make them take tough, contested threes. I think for the most part we were able to do that. But there are some situations where Mike Bibby, Mario Chalmers have gotten loose on us for some open looks. We have to limit those. 

 Q. Can you talk about just your relationship with Dirk. It seems like you are really honest with each other and how that's grown since all your time together here. 
 JASON TERRY: It's a brotherly relationship, and it's something that has grown through our tough times we have grown closer together. Obviously when I first came here, I was supposed to be the one replacing his best friend, Steve Nash. A lot was made of that. All in all, we've come and grown together. Obviously, our chemistry on the court while we're playing is tremendous. It's what fuels this team, and then off the court, it's genuine. We're always honest and upfront with each other. And that's why I say it's like a brothership. 

 Q. How are you able to take any criticism from him? It seems like you are able to say something and maybe you're the only guy who is able to say something to him as well? 
 JASON TERRY: Yeah, it's funny, when we first started out he was brutal. He was brutally honest to a point, and I took it hard. Because I didn't have that coming from a losing situation in Atlanta. Guys didn't really hold each other accountable. But when it's coming from a guy that's your leader, it means a lot. You take it to heart. And then you go out and try to do something about it. And vice versa, if I see something I don't like with Dirk, I say, hey, big fella, we need you to get that rebound. 
 We like it, it's something that works for us and guys feed off it.

 Q. Jason, you have had LeBron and Wade guarding you a lot this series. Obviously this isn't the first time you've had a bigger player on you. I wonder what your strategy is when you're going against size like that? 
 JASON TERRY: My strategy is to utilize the space on the floor, utilize my speed and quickness to my advantage. Knowing if I do get to my spots where I'm comfortable, I've to rise up and make a play or make a tough shot. Because like you said, these guys are big and strong. 
 Again, just using the space on the floor and trying to use my speed and quickness. 

 Q. Just to follow up to your relationship with Dirk, can you talk how he has evolved into a great leader. 
 JASON TERRY: When I first came to Dallas Dirk's leadership was questioned all the time with the media. They don't see him vocal enough, getting on guys enough. He's done it. He's grown. He's grown into that role. Leaders are born. It's something from within. He's always done it by example. But the last two seasons he's really took it upon himself to be that vocal leader that we've needed and at critical times he's shown that leadership. In the Portland series we blow a 20-point lead. We come in in the locker room after the game. Coach wasn't the first one to talk; it was Dirk. I think guys looked at that and seen that, hey, this is our leader. We're going to ride with him. 

 Q. Jet, the two best road teams during the regular season, you guys already stole one on the road. Returning home for three games. Do you look at it as it's a home-court advantage or do you have to make it a home-court advantage? 
 JASON TERRY: We're looking at Game 3. That's the only thing on our mind right now. We're at home. What does that mean? It means our building is going to be crazy. We're going to play with a lot of energy. Some of those shots we're missing better go down. That's what home court is all about. 
 So we're going to have fun with it. We're excited. Our fans are excited. We're back in The Finals after five years. I'm ready. It's going to be fun. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Jason. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT