NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE SEMIFINALS: PELICANS vs WARRIORS
May 8, 2018
Anthony Davis
Jrue Holiday
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Game 5   
Warriors 113, Pelicans 104   
 Q.  Would you guys call this season a success?  
ANTHONY DAVIS: Any time you don't win a championship, I don't see how it could be successful.  We can take a lot of positive things from the season.  Of course one of our main guys  went out and everybody doubted us.  Everybody counted us out and we were able to keep fighting, keep pushing as a unit and able to come this far.  There's no moral victories but it's a lot that we can take from the season.  Any time you don't win the Championship, not sure how much success you really had.   
 Q.  Anthony, you mentioned and referenced DeMarcus.  Will you go to management this summer and say, hey, you know, I'd really like to see him back going into next season and beyond?  
ANTHONY DAVIS: I'm still trying to get over this, so that's something I'll be talking about later on.   
Right now, just trying to get over this, this series loss, and that's really it, honestly.  When the time come up, we'll discuss it then.   
 Q.  You didn't have Rondo in the second half and fall down by 26.  A lot of teams are going, one, two, three, Cancún.  Why were you able to make it a game?  
JRUE HOLIDAY: Just think it's a characteristic of our team honestly.  When one guy falls, somebody else steps up.  I think we did a good job of that tonight.   
Also, we never give up.  I think I said that last, last game.  No matter what the score is, no matter the time, whatever it is, we play desperate and I felt like we did that tonight.   
 Q.  What do you take away in terms of how you've grown as a team and the identity you've formed?  
JRUE HOLIDAY: I think a lot of it is chemistry, to be able to go through adversity and come out of it strong.  We never let anything keep us down.  Every time that something hit us, we hit them right back.   
As a unit, just, again, our character is resilient, and we've honestly showed that all season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT