NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Jrue Holiday
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jrue, wanted to ask you, you're teaming up with Darren on the back board; talk about how you look forward to hearing his name being picked, as well. 
 JRUE HOLIDAY: I'm happy for him. Definitely teaming up with him, it could have been one of the greatest things. He's such a great point guard. He's one of the All-Stars in college basketball, so I mean, I learned a lot from him offensively, defensively, because he's a defensive style player and just an offensive genius. 

 Q. Having been preached defense, how is that going to help you in the NBA being such a good defender? 
 JRUE HOLIDAY: Just my size, that helps me, too, because I can go out there with the little guys and with my size being 6-4, I can guard point guards or I can go up to the two guards, or maybe even three. 

 Q. There was a great cover on Slam Magazine; talk about how amazing that cover was at that time. 
 JRUE HOLIDAY: That's great. It's basketball and we know each other very well. I'm happy for Lance Stephenson if he comes up. If he does well, he's definitely going to be lottery. 

 Q. Bittersweet, you staying in the Green Room until 17 but you're going to the Philadelphia 76ers, a playoff team, how are you going to translate into the NBA for a team lake?
 JRUE HOLIDAY: I'm excited. They have Andre Miller who is a great point guard. I can definitely learn from him. You know, a playoff team, I get to experience that. I get to experience my first year, the pleasure of being in the playoffs, and playing against the best team. 

 Q. A lot of athletes complain that fans almost cross the line sometimes on being hard on them there; how familiar are you with the city of Philadelphia?
 JRUE HOLIDAY: I've been there a couple of times. I'm not that familiar with it. But the way you're describing it, it sounds like L.A.

 Q. L.A., the fans are laid back, they leave the game in the 6th inning in Dodger Stadium.
 JRUE HOLIDAY: That's Dodgers. If you go to a Laker game, they are pretty tough. 

 Q. Did you see the 76ers play last year and what were your impressions of them?
 JRUE HOLIDAY: You know, Iguodala and Andre Miller, they are the two that stood out to me, and they are great players and I'm trying to take something from both of them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT