NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 26, 2010
Jared Dudley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What can you say about Alvin? 
 JARED DUDLEY: He's done that ever since he took over here. He's had confidence in every player. Everybody has a green light. He knows that he wants you to shoot your shot in. 
 And I thought we had Channing, myself, Steve, when it's your shot, shoot it. If it's not, give it to the next guy.

 Q. At what point did you see Channing at his lowest? 
 JARED DUDLEY: At his lowest? Probably Game 3, he was like 0 for 6 or 0 for 7, and you could tell he had a little pressure. He wants to help us out so much, and he knows he's key for us. As you saw last night, when we play that well, it's hard to beat us.

 Q. What do you think it means to him to be a Sun? 
 JARED DUDLEY: I think he probably grew up being a Suns fan. Probably grew up going to the games and saw Barkley take that team to the Finals. We're at a point now, two games away from the NBA Finals, and I think for him, it would be a dream come true to get there. 

 Q. You've had a tight season and Playoffs, but what about last night? 
 JARED DUDLEY: I think it was big because of the timing. It was tied up, fourth quarter. Kobe's in, Gasol's in, and you have five guys off the bench who, if you're not from Phoenix, you might know two or three guys. Barbosa being the sixth man of the year. 
 But it just shows you where this team's capable. One day was Amar'e for 41, Robin the other day of the bench, some days it's Steve at 30. That's why you can't game plan for this team defensively.

 Q. This team in Game 5, L.A., it's a must win game?
 JARED DUDLEY: I hope so. Offensively was never the problem. We scored over 100-plus points. It was defensively. You see the Lakers score. Shot percentage from the field, you shoot that high percentage, you're supposed to win the games. They're shooting 58, 57%, we can't have that. We get in the 40% range, 49. If it's 49, 48, we'll have a chance to win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT