NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 24, 2010
Jared Dudley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   JARED DUDLEY: Girly defense. (Laughing). That's funny. I never heard that. I mean, we're kind of like Syracuse 2-3. (Indiscernible) is a Hall of Fame coach. I'll play the most girlish defense that helps us win. If we have to go, I don't know, box in three, triangle, whatever wins. I would not like a Lakers team overpowering you with super talent inside. 
 We're someone who has to use our quickness and be somewhat tough to offset their steal. And zone was good at one point. Maybe tomorrow it might be something else.

 Q. How about underhand (indiscernible)?
 JARED DUDLEY: I'm confident with my free throw shooter shooting regular. I mean, maybe someone else. I remember they told Shaq to try that. But no, everybody on the team looks pretty good.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 JARED DUDLEY: I never seen him do it. I remember talking to him about it. I don't know here in Phoenix. Just remember in (indiscernible) shooting underhand.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 JARED DUDLEY: You gotta have -- anytime you have a big man that's a loose cannon, wire-type, it's good for your team. Big men are supposed to be rugged and hard fouls. We need that edge. 
 We knew for us to win this series, he had to come back and be effective. Did I think he would be this effective? No. When I seen him making (indiscernible) progress, I went, I don't know if he's ready. We put them in. He's improved. His wind has gotten better. He's someone that can match up size. He can score without getting a play call, so those tip-ins, offensive rebounds, it's crucial for us.

 Q. The left-hand?
 JARED DUDLEY: Left-hand was like Bill (indiscernible) back in the day. When you got it going, when you start feeling it, spin move, always had the right-hand hook shot, left-hand that was something new.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 JARED DUDLEY: Make other people shoot the ball. Anytime when Kobe is not shooting the ball (indiscernible), it's a (indiscernible).

 Q. (Off microphone?
 JARED DUDLEY: I think the zone in the NBA, more so than college, you can't play consistently a whole 48 minutes. You can play five, ten blips. It can be frustrating. 
 You look at their body language, some of the players are going -- certain people don't shoot the ball three or four times down. If you ask Kobe if you don't shoot the ball within six, seven possessions, you know what, something's wrong. If the zone can limit that and frustration sets in, it's an advantage for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT