NHL DRAFT
June 25, 2010
Jack Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Are you shocked with how long Cam Fowler had to wait? 
 JACK CAMPBELL: Oh, definitely. He's one of my buddies, and I thought he was going to be long gone by 12. Anaheim got a franchise defenseman tonight. They've got to be pretty happy.

 Q. What did Dallas just get? 
 JACK CAMPBELL: Hopefully we've got a lot of work to do. But hopefully I'll be there for a few years.

 Q. Did you have any indication that they were going to take you? 
 JACK CAMPBELL: It's one of the teams that I talked to a little bit more. It's a team that I really wanted to go to. Marty Turco has been my idol my whole life. I've been working with the Dallas Stars goalie a little bit. 
 You know to be drafted by Dallas, it's such a first-class organization, it really is a dream come true.

 Q. What do you know about Dallas, the city? 
 JACK CAMPBELL: I don't know too much. I know it's a pretty good city and a lot of fun. I'm looking forward to taking it to the next level.

 Q. Why was Marty Turco your favorite player? 
 JACK CAMPBELL: I loved watching him growing up. But recently I looked past that and seeing what he does for the community and how great a guy he is. He's really an inspiration for me as a person, and I was fortunate enough to meet him this year after a Red Wings game. It really was a life changing experience. 

 Q. He has a terrible record. Is that something if it comes to pass, you hope not to emulate? 
 JACK CAMPBELL: I'm going to do my best to help Dallas win a few hockey games coming up.

 Q. Did you have a Wings goalie that you were ever a fan of --
 JACK CAMPBELL: No, just Marty.

 Q. How would you describe your goaltending style? 
 JACK CAMPBELL: I'd say I'm technically sound with a good level of athleticism. I try to balance the two, and I love the pressure moments, and I love when the game's on the line, I want the puck. I love to win. 

 Q. Do you have an age which you hope to be playing in the NHL? I know you're big on notes on the wall and such. Do you have a year or two down the road? 
 JACK CAMPBELL: Right now it's up to Dallas. I'm going to be working as hard as I possibly can on a day-to-day basis. I'm going to be doing everything I can to be ready. When they call me and want me in are there, I'll be ready. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT