KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2016
Jordan Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Kansas State   
Stanford - 26, Kansas State - 13   
JORDAN LEWIS: The mistakes that were made up front and the back end, obviously those are things that can be corrected.  From the defensive perspective up front, I felt like we did a good job of playing physical with the O-line and stuff like that.  It's just that we can't control everything that happens in the game.  But for the most part, I felt like we had an okay game.  Something to build off of.  We didn't get the end result that we wanted, but we have something to build off of.   
 Q.  How do you think the defense did against McCaffrey?  
JORDAN LEWIS: I think we did a good job against him.  If you look at the stats and stuff like that, you'll see, I don't know how many rushing yards he finished with, but if you take out those, I think it was two or three big runs that he had, those were critical.  Like a mistake or check call, that if a check call would have been made, somebody would have been in that gap and that wouldn't have happened.   
So I felt like overall we did a good job against him.  But I mean I didn't feel like we got dominated.  I feel like we made mistakes at the wrong time in the game and then were trying to catch up at the end.  It was just too late to play catch up all the time.   
 Q.  Were there major adjustments you guys made in the second half?  
JORDAN LEWIS: I mean, we always make adjustments on after a series.  The defense does.  But like we didn't really do anything different from the first half.  I felt like overall we played an okay game.  It's just that we made mistakes and gave up those two big chunks and that hurts you at the end of the day.   
 Q.  Do you walk away encouraged or discouraged by what you see?  
JORDAN LEWIS: I walk away encouraged.  I think everybody's going to walk away encouraged.  Of course you want to win, but I mean, we had a bunch of guys that, you know, stepped out of their comfort zone and grew today.  We grew as a team today in my opinion, and we did some good stuff that we need to build off for the future.   
 Q.  I think you guys played a good game?  
JORDAN LEWIS: Yeah, I think we played a good game.  Obviously if you just look at the whole scheme of things from a defensive perspective, like I said, we made two mistakes where we didn't make a check call or something went wrong.  And if you take that out of the game plan, that takes like two touchdowns off the board.   
So I feel like overall we did well as a defense.  Not good enough, obviously because we didn't win, but we have something to build off of.   
 Q.  Tell me what you thought was going on with that last touchdown that McCaffrey made?  Because, I mean, it was obvious he was going to get the ball and you knew what was going to happen.  You knew what he was going to do when he got the ball.  
JORDAN LEWIS: Yeah, like we practiced that all week long and that certain formation that they did.  We had a certain package that they'd do for that formation.  Just there was an error in the defense when something was made.   
 Q.  Somebody messed up?  
JORDAN LEWIS: Yeah, an assignment was missed.   
 Q.  You can't do that with him?  
JORDAN LEWIS: Yeah, you can't do that.  You can't make that kind of mistake.   
 Q.  I know it's hard to kind of track what someone else is on your team is doing while you're on the field.  But Elijah Lee had 12 tackles?  
JORDAN LEWIS: Elijah Lee, that's important.  The linebackers and safeties did a good job.  That started up front.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT