TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CONNECTICUT v OKLAHOMA
December 29, 2010
Jordan Todman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JORDAN TODMAN: We do what we do and we have our bread and butter. We do whatever works. And throughout the season, our running game has probably been our strong point. Anybody can be able to tell you that. We know that the defense will go out there to stop us. And that's what we practice all week pretty much.   
 So it is tough. We can't have penalties because penalties kill drives and bring us back. I feel like Coach Edsall does a great job of disciplining us. On the offensive line, Coach Foley is on the offensive line on holding and jumping offsides and false starts. We know beating ourselves will help us win the game. We will do mostly positive things and whatever it takes to win.  
  
  Q. It seems like you guys are pretty comfortable in playing really tight games which a lot of college teams aren't.   
 JORDAN TODMAN: A lot of teams might get rattled. For us, I feel like we have been through it all. This season has been a roller coaster for us. We have had ups and downs. We just put it together and say win the game, whatever it takes, win. And it is like you go down to halftime a few points or up a points. Anything can happen. Play every play like it is your last until the clock hits 0:00:00.  
  
  Q. How does it feel to be here in the big light of the Fiesta Bowl?  
 JORDAN TODMAN: It is a great feeling to be here and a great opportunity for us and for the state of Connecticut. It is a good feeling, trust me. We see all the lights at Media Day. It is a chance to make history.  
  
  Q. Talk about the respect factor. How do you feel about it to be here?   
 JORDAN TODMAN: It is like a smack in the face. We won the Big East and we are here rightfully. If somebody says that, that's their opinion, that's cool. I am probably not going to change that. At the end of the day we are here because we won and we belong here.   
  
  Q. When it comes to being on the field against Oklahoma -- you have seen them many times -- what kind of swagger are you going to bring to the field?   
 JORDAN TODMAN: We have our own swagger. We are definitely tough guys. I will tell you that. The offensive back has heart and soul, and same for our defense. For me being the running back, my goal is to make plays, and that's what I'm going to go out there and do. But for a particular swagger, I will play like every play is the last.  
  
  Q. Describe your play.   
 JORDAN TODMAN: I kind of do it all. I'm not the huge running back, but I also get it done. I have got the speed to get to the outside. I can also catch a ball out of the back field and I can make a lot of people miss. That describes me as a back.  
 I think I have done pretty well here. I'm very happy. I couldn't complain. I got one more game to go to improve.  
  
  Q. A couple of your teammates have told you after the Louisville game turned the season around.   
 JORDAN TODMAN: I agree. We sit back coming into the season, we didn't expect to start that way off. We expected to go out there and win the Big East right out. That's anybody's goal, to go out there and win their league and play the whole season undefeated.   
 We sat back and we thought this is a UConn ball and we are a lot better team than this. We turned things around. I stood up, I said a few words to the players, and I can look around in the room and I could tell they got the same vibe as I did. We looked each other in the eyes and we got through that.   
 Everybody's mentality, efforts in practice just changed and changed for the good. We started winning, and winning is addictive. When you are winning, you are happy and everybody is smiling. You are excited to go to practice and travel. We have one more to go out there and get.  
  
  Q. Talk about Coach.   
 JORDAN TODMAN: We do it by his rules. Once you buy it into his system, it is successful. It is the players who have come here before me and also gone and come back and give me a few words. That's something they will tell you. Coach Edsall, he is definitely a serious guy. He is a jokester and makes us laugh, but at the end of the day we are out there to win the game, and he is going to let us know that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT