COLLEGE WORLD SERIES: LUBBOCK SUPER REGIONAL
June 7, 2019
Tim Tadlock
Micah Dallas
Josh Jung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Texas Tech-8, Oklahoma State-6   
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with an opening statement from coach.   
TIM TADLOCK: Really good college baseball game.  We're thankful to come out on the right side of it.  Thankful these guys are on our team sitting to my right, those guys over in that locker room.   
Nobody has a better seat in the house than I got.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Micah, what was working for you?  Seemed like you were keeping the ball low early on in the game.  
MICAH DALLAS: Yeah, OSU, they're a great offense.  If you leave it up, they'll for sure make you pay.  That was the game plan going in, try and miss low, just try to get some groundballs.  If they swing and miss, they swing and miss.   
 Q.  How big was it to get those two runs from Dylan early on, having that cushion?  
MICAH DALLAS: Yeah, that's big-time.  The first to score really helps the momentum go.  It's big for me out there, too, them showing they have my back even if I do mess up.   
 Q.  Josh, everyone is going to look to the solo home run.  What were Braxton and Gabe able to do with those 13 pitches early on?  
JOSH JUNG: That's one thing we pride ourselves on, is seeing as many pitches as we can for the guys behind us.  We got him in some pitch count trouble there early in the game.  I think he was at 58 pitches one and a half times through the lineup.  That's big.  Everyone gets to see pitches, see what he's got.  The guys behind him, Gabe, Braxton, Neuse, benefit from it.   
 Q.  Micah, career high strike-outs.  What is your game day approach in a game like this?  
MICAH DALLAS: Normally, I can't sleep in too terribly long because I'm already thinking about it.  I just head to the field, eat what they have there, just try and prepare as best as I can.   
 Q.  Have any older pitchers given you advice along the way and helped you?  
MICAH DALLAS: John McMillon has kind of taken me under his wing this year.  Play catch with him.  He's just like a second pitching coach for me.  Taylor Floyd is also there for me a lot, too.   
 Q.  Josh, you obviously had the home run, then made a couple defensive plays.  How important is it for you to just not contribute on one end?  
JOSH JUNG: I guess defensively we just need someone to step up and make a play.  Happened to be me this time.  Throughout the season, we've had different guys step up and make plays.   
One of the biggest things we pride ourselves on is not giving up too many runs.  Seemed like we hit a lapse on defense for a second, two or three errors.  We were just looking for that one play.  Anyone on the field could have made it.  Just happened to be me this time.   
I think it sparked us to get through the rest of the game.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, guys.   
We'll continue with questions for coach.   
 Q.  How big were those 13 pitches that Gabe and Braxton were able to look at?  
TIM TADLOCK: Talking about early?   
 Q.  Yes, sir.  
TIM TADLOCK: Any time you can separate balls and strikes, it's good for the guy behind you.  Really proud of the way those guys handled that today.  You're thankful and you understand it's baseball.  Dylan hit it on the nose, right up the middle.  Thankful the ball got through.   
 Q.  In terms of what Josh was able to do, something you've seen so much that you're used to it?  If it's a big moment, you know he's going to come through?  
TIM TADLOCK: Well, I don't know about that.  The play in the eighth was a really good play, a really big moment.  I think he alluded to it.  Kind of created an opportunity there.  Even though the ball Boone hit was hit really hard.  How many times you see a ball knock somebody's glove off?  Not very often.   
That was a big play.  I mean, no doubt about it.   
 Q.  It seems another big moment for Micah.  He just passed with flying colors.  What is it about this freshman that allows him to step up?  
TIM TADLOCK: Well, it starts with fastball command.  It starts with his background.  He's a very grounded young man.  Doesn't get too high or too low as far as week-to-week.  Understands the preparation he's got to put in.   
You don't always see that with a freshman, but he's a guy that's been really consistent in that regard.   
 Q.  Do you know who your starter is going to be tomorrow?  
TIM TADLOCK: Kilian.   
 Q.  How big is it to get that 1-0 lead and know it's just one more game to Omaha?  
TIM TADLOCK: Well, it's better than the alternative.  It is baseball.  We got a lot of respect for Oklahoma State, their team.  We understand you got to earn the right to win.   
But it doesn't hurt anything as far as winning Game 1.  But you got to show up tomorrow and earn it.   
 Q.  Taylor went down a little bit.  What did the trainer tell you about what happened?  
TIM TADLOCK: Haven't had a chance to talk to him.  At the time sprained his ankle or rolled his ankle, something along those lines.  Hadn't talked to him since the game was over.   
 Q.  How do you feel he responded from that?  
TIM TADLOCK: He made some pitches.  He made some pitches.   
 Q.  Dylan, obviously he's back it seems like, his ability to be in the lineup.  
TIM TADLOCK: Yeah, I mean, we felt like we did the right thing there as far as giving him as much time as we could.  Proud of the way O'Tremba played in his absence.  With a hammy, if you've ever pulled one, you know it can come back.   
Just needs to do a good job preparing, getting ready to play.   
 Q.  Late in the game it seemed every time Oklahoma State responded, y'all had an answer to that.  Does that just speak to the experience of this team?  
TIM TADLOCK: A little bit.  That's definitely part of it.  I thought the bottom of the eighth was huge.  Easton gets on with a leadoff single, I guess.  We get a little more separation there.   
Yeah, I mean, I think both teams, you don't get to this point by taking pitches off.  These guys, even though they're amateurs, they're doing a good job with that.  Each day is a new day.   
Like I said, you got to earn the right to win.  You do that, as cliché as it is, got to play this game right where your feet are.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT