ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 21, 2019
Vijay Shankar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First tell us what is your condition about the toes.  
VIJAY SHANKAR: Personally?  Personally, I've got a lot better.   
 Q.  A lot better?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: Yeah.   
 Q.  Will you be able to play?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: Yeah, hopefully.   
 Q.  Were you surprised that it landed on your toes?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: Actually, when you play someone like Bumrah, you always expect that.  Still, sometimes we do miss that.   
 Q.  The team has possibly got off to as good a start as it could have expected.  From the team's point of view, how do you keep going?  Are there areas that you think needs improvement?  How do you guard against complacency?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: Yeah, definitely, being a professional, it's very important to keep improving and get better every day.  That is the only thing which each and every individual think about.  If you can keep getting better, we can set ourselves better standards every game. I will look to get better in every aspect of the game.  Sometimes it's better to understand the situation, which will be very important a few important times in this tournament.   
 Q.  Hi, Vijay.  Afghanistan have not had the best tournament so far.  Their previous performance in the Asia Cup against India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka was pretty good.  How is the conversation in the changing room?  Will there be any major changes for tomorrow's game, or are you taking it as the other games?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: No, it's not about against whom we're playing.  I think it's about how we play as individuals.  As I said earlier, we always look to get better, even when we get to practice session.  That is the only motive that we have.  So we'll just look to get better.  So it doesn't matter against whom we're playing.  It's just about how we play against each and every individual.  It should be the same.   
 Q.  Vijay, does it really feel like you're playing the World Cup the way things are going on?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: No, definitely, first of all, it feels great to represent the country.  World Cup is very special because it happens once in four years, so for every individual it's very special.  The first important thing is representing the country.  That feeling will always be there, be it World Cup or any other tournament.   
 Q.  Vijay, this time last week you hadn't played in the World Cup.  Now you've got a game under your belt, you've got runs, you've got a couple of wickets.  Has that settled you down mentally getting into the tournament?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: Yeah, definitely it gives any player some confidence because that is really needed for any individual.  Last game gave me some confidence, and especially playing against Pakistan, making my debut against them.  It was a very special thing for me, performing under pressure and coming out good.  The team winning at the end of the day is really important.  It felt really good at the end of the day.   
 Q.  Vijay, how do you think your bowling has evolved?  Are there any specific things that you're looking to do?  Like bowling fast or swinging it and stuff like that?  Because that is the differentiating part in you, the fact that you are a fast bowling all-arounder.  
VIJAY SHANKAR: Yeah, I always look to get better in all three aspects of the game.  I know I can keep getting better.  I know I can bowl a lot better than what I am bowling even now.  I'm just working on my bowling.  I'm working -- whenever I get to a practice session, I make sure I improve a bit at least.  I always have a good chat with my bowling coach and try and get better each and every day and look to get something from him which can help my bowling.   
 Q.  Vijay, I wanted to know that, as the team strategy goes, they got the 35th over or 40th over, it's hard because going number for you.  Does it create a pressure, if you're coming in at 46th or 47th over, like the kind of power hitting skills, you have to replicate that?  Does it create another kind of pressure?  Because probably you both have seen bowling all-arounders.  So that creates the pressure?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: Definitely.  That pressure will always be to deliver whatever the situation demands.  So it's not about how powerful I am because I've also played down the order.  I've also got experience playing at number 6, 7.  It's not about taking that extra pressure.  It's about taking extra responsibility and delivering it at the right time for the team.   
 Q.  Vijay, can you disclose anything about the order?  Anything you want to announce about the squad tomorrow?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: I don't know either.  I'll know early in the morning tomorrow (laughter).   
 Q.  The way that England dealt with Rashid Khan, he was supposed to be a great bowler.  He's a great bowler, but he did suffer that day.  Any plans to replicate an attack on Rashid?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: No, every day is different, and every wicket is different.  You cannot take things for granted.  So tomorrow might be a completely different scenario where we'll have to -- we might have to target him, or we might have to play off.  So it is just about adapting ourselves to different situations as quickly as we can.   
 Q.  Vijay, you've been with Rashid in the Sunrisers team.  Really as a player, as a bowler, what are the -- how do you look at his development, and what is it that you have to watch out for when it comes to him?  
VIJAY SHANKAR: He's definitely one of the best bowlers right now in limited overs, and he has done well.  For me, having played with him for a couple of years, it's very important for me to pick things from him, like whenever I bat against him in the nets, I try and pick his variations.  Definitely, he's a good bowler.  So anyone can go for runs any day.  It is about how we come back strong. So for me, it is about how I play against him tomorrow.  So that will be the key.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT