BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 1, 2018
Jalen Hurd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Abilene Christian - 27, Baylor - 55
Q. How did that feel, first one out of the way, how did that feel tonight?
JALEN HURD: Fantastic.  It feels great to be back on the field.  Super excited about it.  We've got more to go, more working to.
Q. Was it fun being able to score the first touchdown of the season?
JALEN HURD: Yeah, for sure.  I didn't really think about it like that, but, yeah.  It's cool to think about it now for sure.
Q. You looked very comfortable out there playing receiver.  How comfortable did it feel for you making that transition, playing the first game at that position?
JALEN HURD: It's super comfortable, man.  I've played it for a minute now.  I've played it for two years because I was off for a while, so I've played it for a minute now.  So very comfortable.
Q. That was a long gap between games.  Was it -- how big a relief was it just to get back on the field after that much time?
JALEN HURD: It was good.  I had a little -- I haven't had goose bumps for a while in a game.  I had little butterflies, little nervous.  But after the first play I was good.  So it was really fun to be back out there.
Q. You're very confident about your ability, obviously.  Was there some nerves though playing a new position against another team for the first time?
JALEN HURD: Well, it wasn't about just the new position or anything like that.  It was more just I haven't been on the field in a minute.  It was kind of surreal just to be back on.  So it was really fun.
Q. How impatient did you get to play against the other team in a game that counted?
JALEN HURD: Very impatient.  Especially in camp, and the lead-up, you just want to go against an opponent rather than your team.
Q. What's this going to do to your body?  Because as a running back, you get punished.  I'm sure you'll feel it the next morning?
JALEN HURD: I feel great.  I feel fantastic, man.  It's completely different.  I feel right now completely different.
Q. The offense clicking tonight.  Talk about the offensive line and opening those holes for the running backs.  It was tremendous tonight?
JALEN HURD: Yeah, offensive line did great.  We have, I feel like we left a lot more out there as well.  So just like anything, we'll never be satisfied.  We've got to get back to work.
Q. There were two quarterbacks out there having the offensive moving.  Having two guys like that, what was that like?
JALEN HURD: It was great.  Seeing what they can both do, and who is going to just prevail.  Or, you know, it's a good little match-up they've got going, so.
Q. It didn't look like you lost anything from one to the other.  Which is kind of rare.  Usually when you go quarterback to quarterback, especially for receiver, that's tough.  What's that say about the chemistry you have going on?
JALEN HURD: Absolutely.  I've worked personally a lot with both of them and all the receivers really have.  So there is no falloff between both of them.
Q. Do you have to learn different things or different tendencies for each guy?
JALEN HURD: No, not really, just because when you practice practice a lot with them, and we kind of, if you do have tendencies, then you know them.  So it's not really -- it's nothing that you're going to adjust to.  We all try to become one.
Q. What is it like when you've got (inaudible) on the other side of you, you've got Platt out there, and kind of coming in waves with guys that can make big plays?
JALEN HURD: It's insane, man.  It's a lot of talent and I'm really looking forward to it.
Q. How exciting is it for that receiver room to see the improved focus on getting the ball deep down the field?
JALEN HURD: Absolutely.  It's fantastic.  I think just because of the depth that we have in there and the talent that we have in the receiver room, just we're able to do that.  We're going to create a lot of havoc for people.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT