OUTBACK BOWL: NORTHWESTERN VS TENNESSEE
January 1, 2016
Jalen Hurd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Tennessee   45, Northwestern   6
An Interview With:
JALEN HURD
Q. Any question you were going to play today?
JALEN HURD: No.  I battled a little hamstring pull at the beginning of the week, but I did treatment all week, and I put in my mind that I was going to play either way, and that's what I did tonight.
Q. What did you do to get back so quickly?
JALEN HURD: Well, on Thursday I ran around a little bit and I felt pretty good, and like you said, I got treatment all week, but there was nothing really that was going to stop me from playing.  Even if it hurt, I really didn't care.
Q. What did it feel like out there?
JALEN HURD: It was awesome, and you could tell that we were really like wearing on them, and the environment and everything.  I think it just goes back to our strength and conditioning program and our style of play, how we practice, and you could tell that we were really wearing them down.
Q. How important was conditioning today with the heat, and how important was the performance of your offensive line?
JALEN HURD: Very, and going back to that drive, I was just thinking the whole time, summer workouts, summer workouts, because summer workouts is probably the hardest conditioning we have.  Anybody coming there, I don't care who you are, you're going to be hurting in the summer workouts, so I was thinking of that, thinking how hard we worked over this time, and just trying to push through.
Q. How much of a springboard is this going into the off season?
JALEN HURD: It's incredible.  Just like last year, we won, and then this win going into the off season, it's just a confidence booster, and you know, we have nothing but to just get better from now.
Q. (Inaudible.)
JALEN HURD: Yeah, it was a decent stiff arm, and I was just trying to get everybody live.  I liked it.  You really can't prepare for anything like that, just when the opportunity presents itself, you just try to make a play.
Q. (Inaudible.)
JALEN HURD: Absolutely.  We're already prepared for it.
Q. What was the experience in Tampa like for you guys?
JALEN HURD: It was amazing.  I want to compliment the Outback on their hospitality.  We had a great time, and Tampa is a great city.  I feel very blessed.
I also want to thank my linemen, how well they played tonight, opening up holes for me, and last but not least, thank my Lord and savior Jesus Christ.  I'm a very blessed individual, and when I get awards like this and time to get up in cameras like this, I'm just very honored.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT