ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 28, 2015
Brendon McCullum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Who won the real battle of big brother against little brother?BRENDON McCULLUM: I think he won, but I definitely had some mad successes as well, and that's what's more important, I think.  It's good game.  It was good, entertaining training.  The boys are in a nice relaxed state and enjoying themselves.  Obviously, tomorrow is a huge occasion, but they've done so well all the way through, a nice, relaxed, calm emotional state, and it will be the same tomorrow.  We'll go out there and just try to do our best.Q. Can the little kid from South Dunedin believe that this is about to happen tomorrow?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, it's pretty amazing I think so far the ride we've been on, and I've said that time and time again.  But it's been the greatest time of our lives.  It's been an amazing trip.  We dreamed right from the start to now give ourselves a 50-50 chance in the final is an amazing achievement.  So we've done some special things over the last little while.  We've had some tremendous support back home, and also from around the world as well.  I think the brand of cricket that we've played has really touched a lot of people and endeared ourselves to a lot of people who follow this game. We've got one more big hurdle tomorrow.  We'll give it everything we've possibly got.  Hopefully if we play well, we'll be smiling at the end of the day and be able to look back on a fantastic campaign and something which would hopefully invigorate the game and New Zealand.Q. You've been using analogies from time to time during the World Cup.  Is this like Kiwi rounding the bend at last, about to rip the Melbourne Cup away from the Aussies?BRENDON McCULLUM: That would be nice, wouldn't it?  I'm not sure what else we'll do out that day, but I'm sure tomorrow we'll go out as the underdogs.  Saying all along underdogs are favorites is an irrelevant tag once the game gets underway.  But I do like using racing analogy, and used plenty of it throughout the World Cup and I'll use some tomorrow before we go out to play as well.Q. Just following on from that, actually you obviously like the horses.  But you said you've got a 50-50 chance, but TAB got has Australia at 1.45 and New Zealand at 2.60.  If you weren't playing tomorrow, you'd probably fancy those odds, wouldn't you?BRENDON McCULLUM: That's a terrible question in the current climate, Andrew?  I went to Mooney Valley last night though, and managed to watch some horses.  That was good fun.  We got entertained there and it was great to get to relax leading into such a big game as well.  But, yeah, obviously love my horses.  As I've said about this team as well, at times referred to as a horse and I said the horse is never better, and I stand by that comment as well.  We'll play well tomorrow, doesn't guarantee us anything, doesn't mean that Australia won't beat us, but I'm very confident we'll turn up and display our skills just as we have done throughout the tournament.  So we'll give ourselves a good chance.Q. Can you cast your mind back to the start of the tournament.  This is obviously the position you would want to be in against Australia at the MCG.  Is this the final you wanted?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, I think that's a fair call.  A hundred thousand people in Australia's backyard, Melbourne Cricket Ground and the history and traditions and the against a very good Australian and yeah, it's been a great ride so far.  I guess this is the ultimate game for us to be able to play in everyone's theory.  So with that I'm sure some guys will be nervous tomorrow morning, so I guess there is some excitement about us going out there tomorrow and putting our skills against the best in their backyard.  So that certainly whets the appetite and creates the greatest stage we can ask for.  So it's certainly going to be a special day.Q. On the flight over hear from Auckland you said something to a teammate that nothing is too difficult.  Is that the mantra that got you here?BRENDON McCULLUM: To a degree, yeah.  I think was trying to organize golf and only got two teams and that meant we're only going to have nine players.  But, yeah, in a throwaway sort of a line that is kind of one of the things which we've tried to instill within the group.  There is no challenge which is insurmountable.  With a lot of hard work, lot of heart, lot of belief and make sure that everyone's heading in the same direction.  You're able to play a brand of cricket that gives you your greatest chance, and that's what we've had throughout this World Cup and we've built over a period of time.  Again, it doesn't guarantee you success, but it gives you the greatest chance. I know tomorrow we'll still remain authentic to how we play.  We'll play an aggressive brand of cricket with bat and ball in the field.  We'll play with the humility which we've played with throughout this campaign as well.  And hopefully the big fella upstairs shines on us when the pressure situations comes into play.Q. A lot has been made about the size of this ground compared to what you've been playing through back at home in the World Cup.  Have you been getting your bearings and just taking in this vast arena?  What are your thoughts about this massive stage compared to what you've been playing with back home?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, obviously it's got a different look to it.  We've played on grounds all over the world.  If you look at Abu Dhabi and the Emirates that's a big ground as well.  Obviously doesn't have the same amphitheater that obviously the MCG presents, but I think boundary size it's bigger.  But in this day and age with bigger bats as well it still brings into play the fours and sixes. So we'll adapt accordingly.  It's something that we'll relish, I think.  We'll look forward to the opportunity to play in such a big stadium and a different kind of cricket ground, and we'll give it a good shake.Q. Given Dan Vettori's troubles with his body, are you marvelling that he's having such a big impact on-field impact now and how do you and the rest of his teammates see what he's done throughout his career?BRENDON McCULLUM: Marveled all through his career.  He's a tremendous ambassador for the game of New Zealand and also worldwide.  I think right throughout his career, he's played at the right spirit.  He's given over half his life to this game.  He's been an outstanding teammate and a very close friend as well.  I guess when he comes down on his career he'll still have many fond memories and close mates from his time playing on this team.  But he's been instrumental to us getting to this point in the tournament, and it's no surprise to me that he has been able to play in every game because he worked so hard to get back.  He had this as his vision and his dream to be able to make an impact on the game that he probably hadn't quite made, albeit everything he's done in his career. It's a testament to a guy with great character, and a great bloke and certainly a strong leader in the group.  It will be nice not just him but other guys as well to achieve the ultimate success for them.Q. Usually teams have a two to three run-up to the World Cup, preparation, et cetera, et cetera.  Everybody gets to see what happens on the field, but what is it -- what's been done in the background in preparing for this World Cup in terms of players, et cetera, et cetera.  Could you talk about the run up to the World Cup?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, it wasn't so long ago that we weren't in a great space in International Cricket.  And I guess we went through some pretty tough times and that led us to strip things right back and led us to be totally honest to where we set in the international game, and how we are viewed not just with New Zealand and also externally, and that is not just as cricketers, but people as well.  Also to develop and understand the style of play we wanted to play which gives us our greatest chance of being the bigger teams on more regular occasions and also being able to win World Cups. So I guess at that point in time we stripped it all back and we started to try to plot our way forward.  I can't -- it's been almost the perfect way back to be honest.  We've still had some tough times on the way.  We've lost some personnel on the way through.  But I think what we've got at this point in time is a group of guys not just on the field but back room staff, reserves, even guys on the periphery of the squad as well who are all desperate to represent New Zealand and make a difference in this game.  We're also on the same bus heading in the same direction, and that allows us to be rather instinctive on the field and pretty, I guess, brave as well, because you know you're going to get totally behind from the group. So we've got a great group of guys from 1 through 25 on the squad, and the guys who it's been a pleasure to be able to share this experience with.  It won't stop at the end of the World Cup.  We've still got a lot of hard work to do to achieve what we want in this game, and where we want to stand in International Cricket, but we've made a good start.Q. The last time you played Australia, it became a bit at the end of Mitchell Starc, trend ball slugfest.  What are your plans for meeting Starc this time around, and how crucial will it be for your chances?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, Mitchell put an outstanding spell in that last game.  He and Trent Boult, and they were able to get the ball to swing quite substantially.  They posed a lot of questions about a lot of wicket-taking deliveries.  It was a great game of cricket.  A tremendous advertisement of the game, and a low-scoring thriller played in front of a packed house.  I guess it was a bit unlucky that one team had to win, and one team had to lose.  I think it will be no different tomorrow that both teams possess match winners throughout this squad, throughout their lineup.  And like he said, it's who grabs the key moments which will determine the outcome of the game.  I've got many strong players and many match winners, not just focusing on Mitchell Starc, but we've done our homework on all of them.  And we've obviously made sure that we've embedded our plans as well for how we want to play rather than spending too much time focusing on them.Q. I'm not sure if you've read Martin Crowe's article today, but he wrote about his pride for you and the team and some of the boys being like their sons he's never had, and the fact he's going to be here to see you guys play in the final and it could be his last match he actually watches.  I just wonder what that means to you and the other players to have him here?BRENDON McCULLUM: I read the article.  I think he's a fantastic writer.  I think what he's going through at the moment is incredibly difficult.  We had him involved in the group, and not long ago as well we came and spent time with the team and it was great.  He seems to have really found peace with himself and the game as well, and he's been instrumental in helping some of our guys on the team peel back their games and really focus on being able to develop individually but also buy into the team collectively. So he's been a really big asset, and there are many guys as well who have assisted guys individually which has helped the team collectively.  So it was really sad what he's going through, and we just hope that he's able to find some peace in the time that he's got left.Q. Do you think this match and everything that is leading up to it can possibly develop into an Australia and New Zealand rivalry like a cross-border rivalry of India and Pakistan?  And when you were in UAE you spoke about the 46 all out and how that deemed South Africa turn around everything.  Did you ever get to thank them for that 46 all out?BRENDON McCULLUM: I think it was 45 all out.  Yeah, look, the rivalry between the two countries is -- I think it's a healthy rivalry.  I think we've seen some epic battles over the years, and across codes as well.  It's not just cricket and rugby, it's all codes.  We've seen tremendous battles between the two, and both countries stopped while the teams are playing respective sports.  So tomorrow is no different.  It's a healthy rivalry which can continue well after our time.  It's one that we look forward to as well. In terms of 45 all out, it's what I was saying before that it gave us the ability to strip it right back.  That's sometimes well said.  At that point in time it was a tough space to be in.  I look back on it and I wouldn't have changed it.  It's allowed us to get where we're at in the game at the moment.  It's allowed us to refocus on what's important to us, and it's allowed us to develop not just as cricketers but people as well. That's what our country, I guess, what they enjoy most about this current team is we have humble guys who are trying their absolute best to represent a country and play an attacking brand of cricket.Q. Talk about that attacking brand of cricket and needing to play the style of game that beats the top teams.  Do you feel like the aggressive is something that the Australians could be a little scared of because they're not used to having teams really serve it up to them like the Kiwis do.BRENDON McCULLUM: I guess I look at the way they play the game skillwise, and the way we play the game skillwise.  We probably try to play it pretty similar.  Both teams go about their work slightly differently.  But in terms of the fundamentals of the game, I think it's played recently similar.  They're very attacking as well, led by Michael Clarke and his innovation as captain too.  And I guess the way their top order, they've got some devastating stroke players as well.  And obviously their bowlers look to try to swing the ball and take wickets. So you flip that over and it's probably similar to us.  I guess on the day I guess that's why you see such great contests as we saw last time when both teams went toe to toe, and I'm sure tomorrow will be no different. Yeah, I guess the outcome is unknown at this point in time.  But I know the style of play we'll take out there tomorrow, and I'm pretty confident Australia will bring the same too, so it should be another really good contest.Q. Do you think it will be too much?BRENDON McCULLUM: Too much aggression?  I don't think so.  For us we need to play well, that's how we're going to beat teams on regular occasions.  We're not afraid of losing.  For us we think about what we can achieve.  That's not always going to work and there are going to be times when we come out on the wrong side of it.  But that gives us our greatest chance of success against big opposition teams on a regular basis.  So we'll continue to play like that and develop a sense of fearlessness about you, and also develops a real can-do attitude as well, which I think we've seen, and even boil it down to that last game that we were able to achieve very much because of that attitude, I think.Q. When you win the toss tomorrow, have you got a clear idea in your mind about what your preference would be?BRENDON McCULLUM: I guess I do at this point in time, but we'll wait to see what the overhead conditions present us with tomorrow.  Pitch looks good.  Obviously, outfield is outstanding, fast.  We're going to play the same team tomorrow as what we played in the semifinal.  So from our point of view we'll go out there and try to be as good as we possibly can.  Whether we bat or bowl first, we've won games batting first, we've won games chasing.  So for us, it's more about the belief rather than an absolute necessity to bat or bowl first.Q. You mentioned Michael Clarke's captaincy earlier.  You guys are the same age.  You made your debuts, One Day debuts within six months of each other.  You're now both captaining your countries.  Do you believe you've got what it takes tactically to beat Michael Clarke?BRENDON McCULLUM: Well, I don't think it's Michael Clarke versus me.  I think it's Australia versus New Zealand.  And I'm more than happy with the horse that we've got and the tactics we're going to employ.  It doesn't guarantee us success but I think the game we've got is going to make us hard to beat.  Innovation and instinct can only come from a place of hard work as well.  We've got to earn the right to be able to be as aggressive as we want to be, and I guess Australia will be no different. Yeah, I certainly don't see it as a Michael versus me final.  It's Australia versus New Zealand, and I'm sure that's where all the focus will be.Q. We all know the way you bat, which is extremely aggressively.  With the size of the occasion tomorrow, do you change the way you bat or do you do exactly what you always do?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, I'm not planning on changing.  I'll stick to the same, the same aggression.  It would be a bit silly to change, wouldn't it?  We'll have a go.  We'll step up tomorrow and we'll try to be as good as we've been throughout this tournament.  And it gives us, as I said, our greatest chance of success.  So to try to play like anyone else is foolish.Q. This whole thing about the MCG, I think half your team haven't played here before, and nearly any of you have played here for six years.  Is it going to feel like a 12th Man almost?BRENDON McCULLUM: No, I think it's a great stage.  It's a great stage to be able to test ourselves in the development that we've made.  Boundaries are big, but the bats are bigger too.  I think you see the balls are flying.Q. The overall atmosphere?BRENDON McCULLUM: I think Eden Park, I think AB de Villiers said the other day that Eden Park was probably the most electric crowd he's played in front of.  Eden Park the crowd is right on you, so I've played in front of 90 or 100,000 people in Eden Gardens as well.  So once you're out there and involved in the contest, the game remains the game.  It's a contest between bat and ball.  As long as you get yourself in that state, and that helps sometimes when you've got the crowd on your side.  But ultimately it's not going to determine who wins or loses the game.Q. New Zealand people think of New Zealand sport and they think Dan Carter, Colin Meads, Grant Fox.  How much does it mean to you that over the past six weeks you've sort of put your names up there at that kind of level and being viewed in that way?BRENDON McCULLUM: It's a pretty amazing ride.  The guys have been great about it as well.  We know when the World Cup is over we'll sort of return a little bit to where things were.  But at the moment we'll just try to embrace the fan following and what we've been able to achieve for New Zealand.  I think it's captivated the country back home.  We've felt the support all the way through.  Even while we're here in Melbourne are feeling the support of the people back home.  For us to now at this point in time be talked about and followed in the same breath as some of the great All Black teams, it's immensely satisfying, but we know we've got to continue to build on that too. So, yeah, we're thankful for what we've been able to achieve and the support that we've had, but it would be nice to win and go for another game.Q. Irrespective of the result tomorrow, the success of this tournament for New Zealand, you guys have looked on to perform.  Part of the Kiwi juggernaut, would you guys add to the fact that you've had an eclectic mix such as yourself, a good, healthy, eclectic mix of youth and experience?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, that's a good point.  I think we do.  We look to our team, and some of our strongest leaders are our some of our youngest guys as well Kane Williamson and Tim Southee strongly in the group.  The beauty about this current team is age does not necessarily guarantee a leadership role in the group.  It's about how you carry yourself.  It's about how you perform.  It's, I guess, the overall package as well. I look around the change room and I see a lot of leaders within the group and even some of the fresher guys into the side.  They still possess the behaviors and the skills and the desperation in their character that you can rely on them during crunch situations as well.  That's been one of the real things we've been able to embed is make sure we've got a good group of people that are all playing for one another, and age is no barrier there, but leadership certainly helps.Q. There seems to have been an effort during the week to intimidate New Zealand with the size of the ground here, the size of the task that you face.  Is New Zealand intimidated?BRENDON McCULLUM: No, we're not intimidated, I don't think.  We're excited.  I guess right through the week there's been a healthy sort of chat about those things externally.  But from our point of view we're just going about our work in the same way.  We know if we play well we'll be tough to beat, and, yeah, that's pretty much our preparation.Q. After the second semifinal while coming here from Sydney I met many Indian fans who are coming here to support New Zealand.  So far would you say that's a bonus for you and it's going to help you somewhere?BRENDON McCULLUM: I'm pleased you touched on that.  Because I reckon we might have the home crowd tomorrow actually.  I think it's probably no secret that most of the other teams around the world would probably fair New Zealand to win Australia.  So hopefully we'll get a good smattering of support tomorrow, and I'm sure the Indian guys will certainly be rooting for us.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT