ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 20, 2015
Brendon McCullum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Brendon, we've seen Chris Gayle training this morning, and he very much looks like he's going to play tomorrow.  How does that change things for you guys?  I guess what sort of proposition to the West Indies with him on the side?BRENDON McCULLUM: I don't think it changes things too much because we expected him to play anyway, but he's obviously a world class player and destructive on his day.  The West Indies team are stacked with match winners, not just Chris but many other guys in their lineup.  But we've prepared accordingly, and now it's a matter of us being able to go out there and replicate the game plan which has served us so well over the last little while.  If we do that, hopefully we'll be hard to beat regardless whether Chris is playing or not.Q. Give us your thoughts on Chris.  I know you rate him very highly.  How do you get on with him off the pitch?BRENDON McCULLUM: Very good.  We obviously played a few seen seasons together at Calcutta.  We spent a lot of time playing against each other over the years as well, and we've had good times off the field too.  He's obviously a great character.  The game is richer for his experience and his involvement, I think we've seen some of the hands that he's played over a number of years.  He's obviously a very destructive player and a real character off the field too.  He's a guy which International Cricket is lucky to have.Q. Is there anything that sort of stands out for you and sort of sums up what sort of player he is?BRENDON McCULLUM: Well, I think there are a number of innings Chris has played over the years.  Obviously his 200 in a T20 game is something which stands out pretty strongly.  200 or whatever it was, 190 or something, and the innings that he plays he's very capable of achieving those innings. We've had some success against him recently, but we still know what dangers he presents as well.  But again, to stress, we're not just focusing on Chris.  They've got many guys in their lineup who are capable of playing match winning innings with the bat and also destructive spells with the ball.  So we've got to respect the entire team that they put out and make sure our focus is on executing our game plan.  If we do that, as I said before, I think it will make us a very, very tough team to beat.Q. The team has been out and about around the town with fans.  How have you absorbed that hype and that atmosphere this week?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, it's been great not just this week but throughout the World Cup, and even leading into the World Cup.  It's the greatest time of our lives.  We've said that time and time again within the group, and I think it's starting to obviously flow into the media and the public as well that our guys are certainly enjoying this tournament.  Enjoying the involvement that we've had, and obviously the success we've had along the way. I think the brand of cricket we've played has really captivated New Zealand as well and starting to make people around the world sit up and take notice of how we go about our work too.  So it's great.  We love the fact that we're playing in front of big crowds and we have the support we've had from our country so far. Yeah, hopefully it continues for another week or so yet, but certainly it's been a great tournament to be a part of so far.  The guys have had some incredible experiences over the last sort of while.  I guess it's one of the things that you don't want to finish anytime soon.Q. Obviously a huge match for the team, but what about for you personally?  Where does it rank?  Is it the most important game of your career?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, that's a good question.  I think it's obviously a really important game, and it's hard because you don't want to put added pressure on the occasion.  One of the things which we've worked really hard on over the last six to 12 months is being able to make sure we still head into pressure games with the same level of preparation and confidence and understanding of what works for us so we can go out there and exhibit our skills and that's what tomorrow is going to present for us as well. There is added pressure because it's a knockout game, but it still doesn't take away from the fact that the game is a game, and that doesn't change just because there is more on the line. For us, I still think we need to go out and play that attacking brand of cricket which we've played throughout.  It doesn't guarantee us success, and I've said that all the way along.  But I think it definitely gives this team the greatest opportunity of being successful.  Yeah, it's a big game, but we'll go out there and enjoy the moment, enjoy the stage that we'll be presented and a full house at Wellington and hopefully we perform accordingly.Q. Can you think of another one that would compare in your career so far?BRENDON McCULLUM: We've played a couple of sort of big World Cup games beforehand.  There are big moments in every series as well.  Test Matches there's been key times where we've been able to go and create history through some of our actions as well.  So I don't want to highlight one game in particular.  But if we can get the job done tomorrow, we'd obviously be pretty pleased with that.  Then we'd head into what would be our next big game as well. So, yeah, we'll prepare accordingly.  We're not going to get too far in front of ourselves as a group.  We know tomorrow will be a tough challenge, and we need to make sure we stand up and plan to execute our skills.Q. Rich Hadlee sat there yesterday where you're sitting and said four years of planning and preparation and six league games just comes down to 7 hours of good cricket in the end.  Is it really that simple though?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, it is, I think.  In this many game it has a funny, funny way of biting you if you take your eye off the ball.  We know what works for us.  We need to go out there and make sure we're nice and calm in our mindset, and make sure that we know what's on the line but still be able to execute the skills that have served us so well over a number of games now. In seven hours the game can turn on a knife edge.  In horse racing, a big horse racing fan, if we miss the start it doesn't mean we're out of the race.  I think the horse has never been better, and we've got every chance in this game to be able to go out there and win even if things aren't a hundred percent.  That's something we probably can't say about too many New Zealand teams in the past that's encouraging.Q. Team tomorrow, have you settled on that, and are you going to reveal it to us?  Is everybody fit?BRENDON McCULLUM: I'll sort of reveal it to you without revealing it to you.  We need to have another look at the wicket tomorrow, but it's safe to assume that barring Adam Milne coming in for Mitch McClenaghan, then the team would remain unchanged.Q. The pitch at the stadium plays a little bit differently now than might have been the case in the past, is that a fact?  Does that contribute to what you do with the toss?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, it can play differently.  I think we saw against England that the pitch itself was fine, it was just the overhead conditions meant the ball swung.  There was not one cloud in the sky that day either, so I guess there are many different reasons why the ball swings and why it doesn't. But the pitch itself is always a good wicket here.  It does play slightly differently, but I don't think it's going to be a pitch which will determine the result.  I think it will be a good surface which if the team plays well, they should be able to win.  So we'll have a look in the morning -- or in the afternoon, sorry.  We'll have a look at the overhead conditions and we'll work out whether we want to bat or bowl first, and it will come down to the toss of the coin.  We all know how that goes.Q. The attacking brand of cricket that you've played has obviously gotten you a lot of success.  Has much thought gone towards the plan B in case it doesn't work on any given day?BRENDON McCULLUM: Firstly, we want to play that brand of cricket.  We've identified that that's what's going to make us a team which is going to be tough to beat.  I can't see that changing.  I would hope it doesn't change.  I think just because there is pressure on a game it shouldn't take you away from what is your best opportunity to win.  That style of cricket we're playing has obviously served us well.  Things don't always go according to plan.  Then you obviously have to move into plan B. But I think we've got the players, not just skillwise, but also the characters within the group that can quickly adjust to that as well.  But I think it's safe to assume we'll still try to play an entertaining and attacking brand of cricket, and I'm sure West Indies will do the same.  So I'm sure it will be a great game.Q. Chris if he plays will be coming in with an existing injury we all know about.  Will you be keeping a close eye to make sure he does the amount of time in the field that he should do?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, that's not up to us, I guess.  I'm sure the officials will make sure that that's the case.  But I don't think that the spirit of cricket will go out the window because of such an instance. But I expect Chris to take full part in if he does play in fielding and batting as well.  I'll leave that up to the officials.  I haven't even thought about that to be honest.Q. The fact that you are such overwhelming favorites in the World Cup game and perhaps the best shape you've been in any knockout game, does that bring a bit of unease or are you comfortable with that?BRENDON McCULLUM: I'm comfortable with it.  Again, I've said right throughout the tournament that we're the favorites.  We're the underdogs.  Once the coin goes up and the contest between bat and ball starts, all of that talk, all of the pre-match favoritism goes out the window, and tomorrow is no different just because it's a quarterfinal. We know that on paper we're a strong team, but we need to make sure that we turn up and display the type of skills that we've been able to throughout this tournament.  If we do that, I'm sure it will be a good chance.Q. (Indiscernible) and Darren Sammy spoke to the media over the last couple of days and really put the pressure on you playing up to the underdog status.  Do you expect them to bring that sort of heat come the game, and maybe even try to rattle a few guys?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, I didn't think that they were overplaying the underdog status.  I think they were offering the comments as well, and I guess they were trying to make sure they remained confident within their group.  I kind of liked Darren Sammy's boxing analogy as a boxing fan.  I thought that was quite clear. But I think it's irrelevant once the game gets underway.  So we'll see what unfolds, and we've seen throughout this tournament already what is said in the media sometimes comes true and sometimes it doesn't once the game gets underway.  So I guess we'll have to wait and see and we'll find out tomorrow afternoon.Q. The other semifinalist is already known.  Is it the slightest possibility that you can take your eye off the ball here and look towards Auckland already?BRENDON McCULLUM: No, we're not good enough for that.  We know we have to make sure that we are respectful of the opposition coming up against every game.  I think that's a skill that we've shown through the tournament so far that we play what's in front of us, regardless who that is, and we deal with the games which follow when they come about.  Tomorrow is no different.  Our focus is very much on this game against West Indies and make sure we perform accordingly.  If good things happen, we'll deal with those in due course.Q. Continuing on the boxing.  Now that we're into knockout cricket, are you fearful of that?  I know you talked about good match winners only need ten overs to turn a game and that sort of thing.  Given it's unbeaten now, it could all cap nothing if one player turns up and delivers that one partnership.  Are you fearful of that?BRENDON McCULLUM: Not fearful.  Realistic that that could happen.  If that's the case, then we play our best game and someone who is good enough to get over top of us, then we play the game that we play.  We're certainly not fearful.  I don't think you can be fearful of anything in this game.  It's a competition between two teams and a competition between bat and ball.  That's pretty much where it lies.  You can't be too worried about the emotions which come into the game.  You've just got to deal with the game as it unfolds. If West Indies turns up tomorrow, someone plays a match-winning inning which is good enough to overcome and upset our best, then I can live with that.  That's just how the game is played.  But I'm still confident that we've got the team that even if we don't have the perfect trip, we're still a chance of being there at the finish.  We'll wait to see what unfolds.Q. Brendon, on a game like this do you bring anyone in to present jerseys or give anything to the team?BRENDON McCULLUM: Are you angling for a job?Q. I'd be terrible.BRENDON McCULLUM: No, no, we don't.  We want to keep things as normal as possible.  We've got some really good routines which we go through and some really nice touches that management have brought about over the last two to three years.  And there is some recognition of guys, I guess, being part of history along the way and being able to achieve special things. Just because it's quarterfinal we won't bring in anyone specially.  In Test Matches we do.  We get someone to come in and present us with our cap skin, which is really nice.  It's a mark of respect for those who have been before and can speak for how important the black cap is to us as well on this occasion, we'll continue to, I guess, prepare and as we have done for every other game.Q. In the game against Bangladesh, we saw you chase that ball and bring that dive in the outfield.  In moments like that, could you just tell us how you approach such a thing?  Do you give a second thought as to how close that advertising board was or other factors or any potential dangers?  In such a moment, what goes on?BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, well, I think as captain you need to make sure you're leading by example with the small things.  We've seen those sorts of traits where we're desperate to try and save every single run.  It's so important to the way the team goes about its work.  I can't ask someone else in the group to be able to be given that if I'm not able to do it myself.  That goes for everyone on the team. So you don't give a second thought of time and time again that sort of play my cricket as if every game could be its last, and that serves me and this team well over the last little while.  So I think given the opportunity again tomorrow and you'll see the same sort of characteristics being displayed by a group.  That is desperation and they're buying into the team plans and trying to make sure we're as tough a unit across the board in all three facets of the game as possible and diving on the boundary is one of those things which is key to us.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT