ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 27, 2015
Brendon McCullum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Brendon, first one how has Tim Southee pulled out today?   BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, I think he's all right.  It was just a blow to the shoulder.  I asked him this morning if he would go on in the league, as well, because, I mean, you just go down, which I couldn't quite work out (laughter) but he's good.  I think yeah, he bowled well today.  He's through his works, so I would expect him to play.  We are going to play the same team, as well.  So, yeah, so far so good with all the injuries.   THE MODERATOR: So obviously confident enough to name the same team to play; is it the same reasoning as before, they have performed well so far?   BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, absolutely.  I think the guys have really stood up over the last sort of while, performed well.  The combinations that we have rolled out have worked pretty well, as well.  Against the structure of the tournament where we are able to get a bit of a break and get some time downtime has allowed us to freshen up some of the guys, as well. These guys get first opportunity.  It's hard on the guys not playing, but look, they are completely committed to the group, as well.  And at some point in this tournament, the guys who have not had yet the opportunity to make an impact will get a game.  But this game, we think that this team is our best team to go on with.   THE MODERATOR: Have you got any nerves kicking in yet.   BRENDON McCULLUM: No, I was a bit nervous about that walk up the stairs, though.  That was far too far to come for a media conference. No, no real nerves.  I think it's excitement.  The guys are in really good space.  We have been playing some good cricket of late.  Living the dream, really.  Getting an opportunity to play for your country and a World Cup at home; and tomorrow is going to be a great event, 40-odd thousand people playing against Australia.  Doesn't really get much better than that. So the guys are excited and I'm sure there will be some news for some of the guys leading into tomorrow's game.  But we'll just go out there and try and display our skills and see how we get on.   THE MODERATOR: I just wanted to ask quickly, as well, when it comes game day these day/nighters, do you have your own personal process that you work through on game day and what is that?   BRENDON McCULLUM: No, not really.  Once I arrive at the ground, I sort of try and get my head on I guess.  But otherwise try and just maintain pretty relaxed emotions, and yeah, just try and go about living your life normally. When you play a lot of cricket, life goes on around it, as well.  So you have got to make sure that you're attending to those details, such as wife and kids and things.  And then once you get to the ground, it's a matter of, I guess, trying to focus on what your job is.   Q.  Steve Waugh has labelled you guys favourites tomorrow, so often underdogs heading into a match against Australia.  How does it feel for you this time?  BRENDON McCULLUM: I've said all the way along, favourites, underdogs, it's irrelevant once the game gets underway.  We are very respectful of how good this opposition that we are coming up against tomorrow; the Australian team has performed well for a number of years and have been exceptional in World Cups, as well. Under Darren Lehmann, I think they have become a very strong team, with a lot of match winners throughout.  That's what we are up against tomorrow, but our focus is very much is how we try and execute the game that has served us so well over the last sort of while.  If we do that, we'll be hard to beat.  Doesn't mean we are going to win, but we will be hard to beat if we perform to the standards that we know how.   Q.  Do you think that victory or defeat could mean more for one team than the other?  Which team can land the bigger blow here tomorrow?  BRENDON McCULLUM: Both teams, I'm sure, are desperate to win tomorrow.  I think midway through a tournament, to get a significant victory over a very strong side is a huge confidence boost for the group.  If you lose, as long you go out and you play the game the way that you want to do it, it doesn't -- it's not life or death as such.  It's just a game of cricket which we are going to try and give everything we possibly can to try and perform. This tournament still has a long way to go.  Still a lot of pressure games coming up in the next sort of while and tomorrow is one of those.  I guess it's nothing more than that.   Q.  Of all the things that could come out of a victory, momentum, confidence, topping the group, what's the most important aspect for you if you were to win tomorrow?  BRENDON McCULLUM: It's just displaying our skills.  We know the blueprint that works so well for us.  It's how we do that in front of 40-odd thousand people against a very good side.  If we can step up and do that, then we'll be pretty pleased with our performance win or lose. Obviously you want to win but you can only control the things which are -- the cards which are in your hand, and that's what we'll try and do tomorrow.  If we can do that, then we'll be pretty happy with where we're sitting in the tournament.   THE MODERATOR: There's been a fair bit of talk about the captaincy in Australia; the fact that Michael Clarke is coming back in, having not captained Australia since Adelaide in November, do you see that as a positive for you, I guess?   BRENDON McCULLUM: No, because I think Michael Clarke is the leader of the Australian team.  I think we saw during the tragic circumstances around Phil Hughes's passing how strong a leader he is and the way that he carried himself and the way that he spoke on behalf of the team. I think that earned adulation and respect from not just  Australian people, but also people around the world.  We were certainly in awe of how he was able to handle himself during that time. I think he's very much the leader of that team.  We are very respectful of that and I think they are strengthened for his inclusion back in the side.   THE MODERATOR: Just what would it mean for you to beat Australia at a World Cup, and obviously just the genuine belief that you do have what it takes to go the whole way then.   BRENDON McCULLUM: We've got that belief, anyway.  We know we are going to need some luck along the way.  Just the nature of I guess how the tournament is structured with the quarter, semi and a final.  There is match winners throughout every team that we come up against. Australia is no different, but the points that are on offer tomorrow are no different than points that have been on offer against Scotland, England and Sri Lanka, as well. So it is a big game.  It's going to be a great atmosphere.  It's going to be a really enjoyable game to be a part of, and one that I'm sure guys will remember for a long time.  But, the points are still the same and we'll go out there and try and do a job.   Q.  Mike's talked a lot about maintaining an even keel, don't get too high, don't get too low.  I'm wondering with all the hype that's been swirling around for the last six or seven days ahead of this game, has that proved anymore challenging do you think for the team, or not?  BRENDON McCULLUM: I think we knew that that was going to be the case, especially if we started the tournament well.  Hence, we tried to, I guess factor that into our plans a long time ago; that we were going to have to ensure that every one of the squad, not just on the field, but also the backroom staff, were able to I guess be nice and stable in how we go about our work. And that was the beauty of the preparation that we had leading in; we were able to deeply ingrain that sort of thought process and mentality amongst the group. I guess now we arrive here, and the fanfare and the anticipation of this game, it is big, but I feel that the guys are in a good space because of the work that we've done previously.  So I don't think that we'll be over-awed or anything like that.  I think the guys will just go out there and try and perform their skills and if we do that, then we'll be a good chance.   Q.  You're up against one of the big three tomorrow.  How important is this to New Zealand's status of in game that you put in an emphatic performance?  BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, it's important but as I say, there's many games left in this World Cup and there's many opportunities left for us to continue to show the skills and the hunger that we play with to the world.  And I think we've earnt some respect around the world in the last 12 to 18 months through the way that we have, not just performed, but I think the way that we have carried ourselves as a team and the brand of cricket that we are trying to play. You can't win every game.  That's just the nature of this game that we play and the fickle nature that it does serve up at times. But, you can control what you bring to the table and I think as long as we see a team which is engaged in the field, desperate to save every run in the field and fight as hard as we possibly can with both ball and bat; then I think the result will certainly -- we've got a good chance of getting the result we want.  Doesn't guarantee anything, but that's all that we can -- I guess where our focus must be.   Q.  Do you have to adjust the brand of cricket that you've been playing; that you've set the blueprint that you talk about, because it is Australia; perhaps, distinct from someone like, say, Scotland?  BRENDON McCULLUM: No, I don't think so.  The style of cricket that we are trying to play can be successful against the very best teams. I think if you look at the Australian team, you look at our team, probably play a similar brand of cricket.  Probably both teams go about it slightly differently.  But we play a very similar brand and so we have seen that you can have success playing that way, and Australia have had a lot of success over a long period of time playing that aggressive, I guess confident style of cricket, and that's what we are trying to play. We are trying to be as positive as what we can in every situation that we come up against and trying to I guess continue to have the public -- endear ourselves to the public with the manner in which we play. Because it's Australia, it doesn't change anything.  We still think that that's our best way of being able to get a result, so I don't think you should try and change, especially at of the last moment, the style which has served you well over a long period of time.   Q.  Much of the talk about Australia has been the unusual dimensions of this ground, probably has you licking your lips, but do you have to be careful to not get too carried away.  BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, it's unique.  It's certainly got its quirks this ground, as do a lot of grounds in New Zealand.  Like you say, that's the beauty of playing here, as well.  It serves up different strategies and different tactics, and that puts different demands on players with both bat, ball, and also as a captain. It doesn't mean that you're going to -- every time you hit the ball down the ground you're going to get four or six.  It's still the opportunity to work guys out from a bowling point of view, and there's areas that you can try and target from a batting point of view. It makes for an interesting, like you say, an interesting, game and it will be interesting to see how both teams I guess try and utilize that short boundary with the bat and try and stay away from it with the ball.  But I guess we are never quite sure until we get underway.  Tomorrow, yeah, it will be a nice quirk to see different tactic installed in this game I think.   Q.  Your fielding display against England was talked about, one of the finest people have seen in recent memory.  Is that your way of your team, of making their presence felt on the field, as opposed to maybe some of the more verbal sides, that make clubs like Australia, they go about things a slightly different way, albeit they are a find fielding side as well; do you see your fielding as the way you stamp your authority on the game?  BRENDON McCULLUM: Yeah, 100 per cent.  It's the thing that you can control in this game.  Everyone wants to score runs.  Everyone wants to take wickets.  But that's not how the game works. But fielding, you can control.  To me if you have got engaged fielders; if you have guys who are running off the ball, as well, are keyed into the game, that are easy to get ahold of on the field then you can start to demand -- well, you can start to play with some more freedom, as well.  From a check captaincy point of view, you can be a little bit, I guess strategic, once you can get ahold of guys. If you are trying to grab guys on the field, then it's near on impossible to make those subtle changes to be able to control the game. Fielding for us is a nonnegotiable.  It's a sign of our tied, I believe and it shows to everyone how desperate we are as a team to perform.  And I think our last performance against England and the field was the best I've seen in the New Zealand team.  And that was right throughout the -- right from the top of the order right all the way through to a No. 11 taking diving catches out on the boundary. Yeah, it's a really good sign.  It's something we pride ourselves on.  We do a lot of work, but to me, it's more the attitude of once we arrive; when we are on, I think our fielding is outstanding.   Q.  What have you made of Australia's mind games throughout the week, Aaron Finch, saying you're under pressure to perform here, David warner, saying you might be guilty of a brand explosion.  Has it bothered you at all?  BRENDON McCULLUM: Probably am guilty of a brand explosion.  You play long enough, you're going to come up with some pretty -- you're going to make some people weary at times.  I've read most of the the reports, as well. I think the Australians have been very complimentary of our group.  I think there's been some sensationalism in some of, I  guess, the reporting of it.  But yeah, I think they have been very respectful about how they have discussed our team, and we are very much focused on just going out and trying to display our skills and perform as well as what we know we can.   Q.  You mentioned home advantage and you guys are clearly thriving on playing at home, and Wellington was an obvious example of that.  If you do win this game, you probably will top the group and that means you'll get to play at home all the way until what could be a possible final and you could even a semifinal here against Australia here, which would be at home.  How important is that?  BRENDON McCULLUM: Playing at home is great and that's the beauty of this World Cup for us is it's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for us to play against the very best teams in the world and a massive tournament on your own soil. So we have seen the way that the public has reacted.  They have really gotten behind us and supported us, and the guys loved it.  It's great when you can see full houses turning up to games of cricket and walking down the street, and people are driving past with flags hanging out their cars and everyone is really complimentary of you. It can only help playing at home.  I certainly don't think it can hurt, and the guys have really enjoyed it.  We have encouraged everyone to just enjoy the tournament, as well; lap up the ability to be out and about with some of the fans and supporters of this group, as well.  Don't see it as a burden but more I guess the support of where this team has come from to where we are now. Yeah, so far, so good, and we'll see what unfolds for the rest of the tournament.  But we'll focus on the game tomorrow first.   Q.  You mentioned the square boundaries.  Seem to be lot of short pitched bowling practice with the batsmen today.  Is that something you're expecting tomorrow?  BRENDON McCULLUM: There's always short pitched bowling in the nets from our boys, especially me, normally.  Those guys are trying to get picked, normally tend to bowl a little bit quicker and a little bit shorter, as well. It is one of the things on this ground.  The links that you bowl, you need to be pretty smart with.  The square boundries are not overly long either, though.  And we have seen in the past that if you focus too much on trying to bowl that back of a length; there are players capable of playing the horizontal bat shots to good effect and you can go the journey. So you've got to be pretty smart about how you -- or when to use the short ball and when to give it a chance to swing, as well.  That's again, one of, I guess, the nuances quirks of playing at the screen.   Q.  Given the way David Warner plays, is he pretty much the key wicket for you tomorrow in terms of setting the tone and are you confident in your plans to him?  BRENDON McCULLUM: We've spent a lot of time on all of their players.  If you look at their order they have match winners right throughout their lineup and they all represent different challenges in their own right.  We have not focused more on one person than the rest. David Warner is an outstanding cricketer who has performed in all three forms of the game over a period of time.  You know, he is a dangerous player that we need to make sure that we keep quiet, but so is Aaron Finch and so is Steve Smith and Michael Clarke and the rest. We have got to make sure that we are able to execute the plans that we want to and if someone does get away, then we know -- then we have the plans of how to shut them down.  Then it's about executing them.  You can have all those plans but unless you execute then your plans are not really worth anything. So that's what we have done well over the last sort of while, it's what we did well against England and we have got to make sure that if we are able to get ourselves in a position of strength in the game, then we continue to press home that advantage, as well. Yeah, it makes for an interesting contest tomorrow.  We'll see how it unfolds but I'm confident that we've got the team that's capable of winning and I'm sure Michael is confident that his team -- that he's got a team capable of winning, as well, so it should be a great contest.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT