NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 7, 2006
Shaquille O'Neal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  aa Q.  Dwyane was just in here, and he didn't sound too healthy.  At had a point do you start to get concerned about how well he's going to be for Game 1? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  Who asked that question?  Well, Doctor, I don't have the diagnosis on that.  I'll be sure to do a physical checkup and get back to you.  (Laughter). 
 Q.  Back when you were leaving L.A., Dallas was considered a possible distinction.  Can you talk about the irony that you meet the Mavericks in the NBA Finals two years later? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  I don't think it's irony.  I think it's just two classy organizations, first time being here, and it's going to be a fun, fun series.  Mr. Cuban is a great owner, great for the town, he's done a lot for the town, a lot for the organization, and I've always been a great fan of his. 
 We're going to play basketball and hopefully we can be the first to win four. 
 Q.  You've talked about where you fit into the game and where Dirk fits into the game and the evolution of the center, can you describe that and say sort of where you still fit in, even in that evolution? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  He's one of the greatest players to ever play the game.  He's earned his spot.  If you look at what he has done year by year, earned his spot.  And a great player, great shooter and he's a 7-footer. 
 You know me being 7-foot, you always think of a 7-footer just playing inside basketball.  But he's one of the first that can do it effectively.  You know, when I was coming up, if you tried to do it, they would tell you, get your ass inside.  But he does it and he does it very well.  He's one of the best at it. 
 Q.  So given that, where do you fit in? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  Well, I'm still me.  You know, everybody has their niche, and I think I created my niche. 
 You know, he also has a niche and he's a great player.  He's actually one of the players that I will allow my son to watch and model his game after if he ever decides to play this game. 
 Q.  Udonis was out there saying that you've told them that you've seen all kind of small ball techniques and yet you've still got your rings and Finals appearances, if this team does try to go small and take you out of the game defensively, what do you guys do defensively to counter that because offensively the answer is pretty obvious? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  We just have to play good one-on-one defense and just rebound the ball.  This team, they take it to the hole very well and they shoot the long ball very well.  So we have to just kind of get it and, you know, play our game. 
 But this isn't something that we haven't seen before. 
 Q.  If Dirk is the center, they are trying to isolate on you, you're getting a lot of help?  How do you play that? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  We just have to play to the best of our ability.  No one can really play him one-on-one.  But, you know, a guy that's playing a lot of offense like that, on the other end, he's also going to have to play some defense, so if I have to stick him, he has to stick me also. 
 Q.  Is it at all different, you've had nearly a full week off again, is it at all difficult to stay sharp when you have these kind of extended breaks again, or in hindsight does this work out to be a good thing because of the way Wade has felt the last few days? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  It's a little bit of both.  I've been anxious the last couple of days.  I try just to not be too anxious.  Tonight is where I could get it back and start really, really focusing because tomorrow, once that ball goes up, it's going to be one hell of a series. 
 Q.  Two years ago, you were here with Gary and obviously things didn't end well.  Have the two of you talked about that experience and what's different about this year? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  Different team, and you know, me and Gary, you know we talk about that all the time.  I was the one that convinced him, come to Miami.  I told him it was sort of my fault that we didn't get it done, but if you can come join me, you can hear him laughing now, you know, he's a loud guy -- but I just told him if you come play with me one more time, we'll possibly get it done. 
 Q.  When Pat was the president and not the coach, what kind of conversations did you have with Pat soon after he made the trade for you about getting back here? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  We had many conversations.  One was -- one was that he was going to be straightforward with me.  He told me what he wanted.  He told me what type of organization he ran. 
 You know, for me it wasn't a problem.  I knew that before he even told me that.  That's why when I was going through what I was going through, that was one of the cities that I wanted to go to.  He's a straight shooter, real good guy, been real.  To me.  I have no complaints at all. 
 Q.  Was there anything specifically said about both of your desires to get back The Finals even with him just serving as president, was there anything specific about this moment? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  There was nothing to talk about.  He just told me I'm going to get you the guys around you so that we can have the possibility to win.  He only said it once.  He only had to say that once.  I think he knows this is what you play for, this moment right here. 
 It wasn't anything we needed to talk about.  Then after the first year where we almost did it, but we didn't do it, we had another conversation.  He said you could either take the 35 million and do it by yourself, or you've got to give me some of your money so I can get some players.  I said, I'll give you some of my money.  Just go out and get some players.  He did that, and we're here.  So now we've just got to, you know, be the first to win four games. 
 Q.  Wondering, at this point in your career, does it mean any more to you to get to The Finals to have a chance to win the Championship than maybe it did a few years ago? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  It means a lot.  You know, for me, personally -- just adds to my book.  You know, when I hear you guys talk about me, I'm going to force you to say, he was the greatest.  (Laughing). 
 Right now, as a player, I have three, but I'm not satisfied with three.  You want me.  And I have the opportunity right now to get more.  So just going to play hard. 
 You know, we have a real tight group, 15 strong, and we have a good opportunity to get it done. 
 Q.  You said in 2004 that you thought it was your fault you didn't get it done? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  Yeah, kinda. 
 Q.  Why? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  I'd rather not get into it, but me and Gary, we just should have done things different and we didn't.  So, you know, that was just my way to let him know that it won't ever happen again, if you come join me. 
 Q.  A lot of the players and even some of the coaches have said that this team is really a lot different from the regular season Heat team, but have you grown from that first series against the Bulls until now?  What made you take that next step up? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  I think we have.  I think we've gotten better in each category. 
 We've gotten pretty good.  We've always been a tight-knit group, and now we're even tighter and we're playing at a high level.  Had a couple scares, but, you know, Coach Riley did an excellent job of getting us, making us regroup, having our mentals right and we just stepped up. 
 Q.  When you look at -- I guess I was looking in the papers today, they have you guys underdogs.  Do you like playing out of that role? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  We've had -- we've been getting doubted all year.  So, you know, this isn't anything new for us.  So that just basically means there's no pressure.  Especially if you're the underdog.  That's the good thing about being the underdog, there's no pressure.  We just have to go out and play our game and do what we do. 
 Q.  Let's just say that a snake bit your mom right here, right on the chest area, would you be willing to suck the venom out to win the title? 
 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  No, but I would your wife.  (Laughter). 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT