NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 20, 2005
Shaquille O'Neal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Shaquille, everybody's now referring to you as the elder statesman.  How do you feel about it? 
 
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  I agree with that.  I've been in here 12, 13 years and myself and Grant Hill, we are the oldest this weekend and we're also talking about how we can remember when we was here with Jordan and Dominique and Barkley and Karl Malone and John Stockton.  I'm very impressed with the young guys, LeBron and D-Wade and how they handled themselves.  I think the future of the game is in good hands.  
 
Q.  Kobe told us you guys didn't talk all weekend.  Is there a reason for that? 
 
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  (Laughter). 
 
Q.  Are you like the good luck charm, wherever you go, they win in this game. 
 
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  Well, my job was to, you know, just keep everybody loose in the locker room.  You know we've been having fun all week. The guys were very energetic when I came into the locker room, and Stan asked me to make sure we go out and get the win and everybody played with great enthusiasm and we got the win.  
 
Q.  Shaq, Allen Iverson was saying that he really cherished the opportunity to play with you tonight and was just complimenting you.  Was that pretty much the way he played the game as well with all of his assists? 
 
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  Yes, he played fabulous tonight.  He kept everybody involved.  He took his shots and he's one of the greatest point guards ever.  He's like a little version of me, goes in there and gets beat up every night and never really complains, hard to guard, tough guy.  It was fun tonight playing with Allen Iverson and Vince Carter, Gilbert Arenas, guys like that.  
 
Q.  Just about Iverson again, he talked a lot about how he feels he's changed and how much he's grown up and how different he is.  Do you feel he's different from say, three, four, five years ago? 
 
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  It's not that I feel he's different because I never really judged him.  I like Iverson for who he is and he's always been a hard-nosed player ever since his rookie year.  He's always been dedicated to the game.  You know, certain people do things certain ways, and I think that's what make this game so special is that everybody's different.  I think it would be a boring game if everybody was the same, just like it would be boring if you guys asked the same dumb questions.  (Laughter). 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT