NASCAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 21, 2010
Ozz Negri
Jeff Segal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone, we would like to welcome you to a special edition NASCAR Grand Am teleconference. Joining us today are Ozz Negri and Jeff Segal coming off the race at Barber Motorsports Park with plenty of momentum going into Saturday's Bosch Engineering 250 at Virginia International Raceway.   
 Ozz is coming off a second place finish in the Porsche 250 when he joined Michael Shank Racing the No. 60 Crown Royal XR Ford Riley. Coming off your strong finish at Barber, coupled with tough luck suffered by some of the championship contenders, what are your thoughts heading into VIR at this several stage of the championship?   
 In the meantime, we'll introduce Jeff Segal. Jeff, co-driving the SpeedSource No. 69 FXDD Mazda RX-8, he carries a two-race winning streak into VIR, having won four of the last seven races and had some tough luck in the Rolex 24 after Jeff won the pole in dramatic fashion.   
 Jeff, you found your way back into contention with back-to-back victories; can you continue that into VIR at a track where Mazda has never won.  
 JEFF SEGAL: I certainly hope so. Our team is very strong right now. We have been running the same car for a few years, the same driver lineup for a few years. So we are really gelling well right now, the entire team. And also last few races we have a lot of momentum, which is huge and counts for a lot in terms of our performance.   
 But this is a track we have struggled in the past, and the rules changes certainly are not going to make things easier. Having said that, I'm confident; it's such a strong car and the team knows it so well. So just looking forward to another good finish.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Jeff.   
 Coming off your strong finish at Barber, a number of the other perennial contenders had had some tough luck; what your thoughts heading into VIR at this early stage of the championship?   
 OZZ NEGRI: You know, J.J., we take care of every single race, we know how competitive the series is. You know, we have got a good momentum going, up in third in the championship, second as a team and third in drivers; it's a lot of momentum, good confidence.   
 We have got a good car since Daytona when we were on the front row. But at the same time, you know, we can't deny that you know this year is probably one of the toughest years, and we are going to have to work very hard to earn it.   
  
  Q. Ozz, tell me a little bit about driving with John Pew this year, obviously after having a long and fruitful relationship with Mark Patterson, every driver needs to build a level of familiarity and trust with a co-driver, after being with Mark for a period of time, what's it been like for you to having to adjust to having a new teammate, a new wing man and someone that you have to go into battle with?   
 OZZ NEGRI: Well, it's funny you ask me, because obviously I know John for quite some time. And I know how his mind works and how he drives, because he's been our sister driver for the last two years. It's been some work and we've been spending quite a lot of time together.   
 We have been go-karting every single week and John is a very easy person to work with. He definitely listens, his heart is 100% into doing well, and you know, performing well. And he's got time on his hands that he can dedicate and can give me time so I can work, you know, on and off the track with him.   
 It's been fun and most of all, to me, it's been, how can I say, it's been very -- I'm having difficulty finding the right word, but you know, I'm very excited about -- motivating, that's the word. I'm very motivated about working with him and getting great results just as I did with Mark.   
  
  Q. I followed your career back in Formula 3, and you then came over to the States and raced in Indy Lights and have gone on to a great career since then. But I guess for you, when you came over here and were looking to continue your open-wheel career, did you ever think you would have this long and prosperous of a career in America and driving sports cars in the Rolex Series?   
 OZZ NEGRI: Well, first of all, I'm extremely, extremely happy, and glad with, you know, where I am right now.   
 It's very funny, I've been talking on and off with Ruben Varicello (ph), a good friend of mine, we talk sometimes between his races, and he's been asking me, you know, how is it; you know, how is it to race sports cars there in the States.  
 And I tell him, I said, "I never had as much fun in my whole life." And that's pretty much a good part of the success, you know, because you're going to enjoy what you're doing, it helps you doing well. If you're not enjoying, then, you know, the fun is not there and the heart is not there. I can tell you that every time I go in my car and I get with my team -- it was a little bit difficult at first, you know to come from single-seater street race to the endurance race.   
 I used to be a lot more aggressive. I kind of had a little bit of a tough time in the beginning of my sports car career, you know, with some aggressive moves, but I finally learned. I finally learned the hard way a couple of times, you know, the sports cars world runs a little different, and I'm totally enjoying it, totally, totally enjoying it.   
  
  Q. Jeff, pretty big rule change in GT with Porsche getting some concessions and you guys getting 75 pounds added to your car, wondering what your thoughts are on that and how you think that's going to affect your RX-8.   
 JEFF SEGAL: You know, first off, it's frustrating. As a driver you want to make sure that you have the strongest car that you possibly can. Porsche works incredibly hard on the preparation and the development of the cars. They built three new cars over the winter this year, just building off of what we learned over the last two years. Nothing monumentally different but a bunch of really small things that have defined the car and made it that much better.   
 So when we showed up for Daytona testing, we had a car that we know very well and a car that we had improved in any every way that we know how. We had been running the same chassis and engine and driver lineup for the last few years, so we really have that continuity going for us.   
 Obviously Martin, in particular, has been quite successful in the last few races and, ultimately I guess there's political pressure to do something about that. In my opinion, you know, I wish I could see the data where it made sense, how these decisions are come by, but at the end of the day, I just drive the car.   
 Obviously for me I think it's not going to help anything but we've got such a strong car, such a strong team and the depth of engineering, sharing all of the information, I think it's something that we can move on from. I think we'll still have a strong car and a good race in VIR, and I can tell you that we'll be trying as hard as ever to make sure we win another one, right away.   
  
  Q. Ozz, a lot of your wins have come late in the season. Is that just because of the tracks at the end of the season suits your team best, or is there -- like this year, you had a great run at Barber -- yeah, Barber. So is there anything to that, the tracks, or is it just how your team works?   
 OZZ NEGRI: Well, I don't think it's -- I don't think it's normal. I think it's just coincidence.   
 You know, we have been very strong in the beginning of the season before last in '08. We have a couple of podiums and you know, a pole position at Daytona 24 Hour. You know, it's just the way that it goes.   
 You have to understand that we are Pro Am driving lineup, and our strategy in the race, it's a little limited. You know, it's not as flexible as when you have a pro-pro in the car. So everything has to be almost absolutely right for us to be able to, you know, be on top of the lead I would say.   
 And you know, the races, for example, the last race that I won, New Jersey, it was all, you know, on a pit stop. I came in for the last pit stop at nine, and you know, everything, all of yellow flags, they fell at the right time and we didn't need to take that much fuel. We all came out of the pits and when we call came out of the pits, I was third, so I had only to pass two cars in the race.   
 This series is so competitive. It is one of the most competitive series I have ever driven in. You know, everything has to be aligned so you can be up front and win races. And I promise you, we are working very, very hard, me and John and the whole team, we are working very hard to win one of these races.   
  
  Q. I want to think about what it is that you did with Mark Patterson and relate that to John Pew. Earlier your relationships with both were spoken up; what are the differences between John Pew and Mark Patterson, driving differences?   
 OZZ NEGRI: Well, they are two very different characters. Mark is very confident, very outgoing. Mark is very brave.   
 John is quite a lot more technical and a little shy at times. John, what is good about John is that John has given me all the time I need to help him. So I've been learning his moods a lot quicker than when I did with Mark, obviously, because we have that time on our hands, and John is 100 percent committed to racing. Mark has his business and that was his priority. John's priority racing and doing well, so we just been spending a lot of time together watching videos and you know, looking at data, studying what happened to Barber, what could we have done better and so on.   
 So I think, you know, the speed that things are happening and will happen with John, it's going to be quick and pretty, you know, a lot of people will definitely notice a good change on John. I've been getting him to race go-karts, so we can work on his race crafts and on his speed with cold tires, feedback and everything. You know, that time like I never had with Mark, which I'm having with John -- by the way, John raced this past weekend at Homestead at Lotemax Championship (ph) and he won both races, Saturday and Sunday, two pole positions. The Saturday race he won on a dry track; on Sunday, he won on the wet track. So this is extremely good training. I'm very glad to, you know, to be part of it, to be helping him, and I know we can get those fruits for ourselves in the next few races.   
  
  Q. Mr. Segal, if my second grade math kicking in here, math skills is correct, you are on the verge of your 25th birthday; is that correct?   
 JEFF SEGAL: That is absolutely correct.   
  
  Q. Okay. Now, when we go back, when you joined the team, there was probably an incident -- not probably; there was an incident at Daytona International Speedway during a sports car race there in which the No. 69 car has made a number of highlight reels since. When you look at Mr. Assentato and go back those years in the cars; embryonic phase, to put it mildly and since then you guys have picked up the pace and won quite admirably, and I would point out, haven't you won like four races in the last seven or eight or something along those lines?   
 JEFF SEGAL: Four out of the last seven.  
  
  Q. When you look at Mr. Assentato last night on Grand Am Weekly, one of the guests said that a gentleman driver like him shouldn't win to the extent which he won, and I would like to know, when you take all of that into consideration, the wreck, the roll and all of that and now advancing to this point, why is it that Mr. Assentato should win?   
 JEFF SEGAL: To be perfectly honest with you, I think anybody that says that just certainly doesn't know Emil very well at all. He's one of the most competitive guys that I've ever met, and you know, obviously, I'm quite thankful to him for giving me the opportunity to step up from what was at the time the Koni Challenge into the Rolex Series and he took on a project.   
 From the time I got in the Mazda, I had never had a problem going fast, but I certainly had a lot to learn in terms of maturity and making the right moves at the right times, listening to the team, working with the team to help engineer the car and so on.   
 So you know, the incident we had at Daytona is a perfect example of that. I think that's something that happened. It was really unfortunate, because it was the last few laps of the race in second place looking really good. But it was a learning process, and hopefully it never happens again.   
 But in terms of Emil and the success that we have had together, he fits the mold perfectly for a gentleman driver. He absolutely embodies what Grand Am is looking for in the Akin Award that they have. He is incredibly passionate about racing, but he spends 99.99 percent of his time working on his business. He shows up at the racetrack usually at the last minute with no sleep and jumps with the car, and we are always astounded at how quickly he goes. And I think you have to know his history to understand why that is.   
 This is not a guy that decided at a late age he wanted to go racing. This is a guy that's been passionate about racing his entire life. He was racing Formula 4s at Limerock way before I was born, and he's somebody that made the rather wise decision: Hey, maybe I shouldn't be screwing around at the racetrack. Let me go build the business and be successful there and I can come back to it, and that's exactly what he's done. I think he strolls through; he has a ton of skill, his feedback is great and he's a great co-driver because he understands the whole process. He understands what we need to do to get that car up to the front. There's never an argument about feed time. There's never an argument about strategy in terms of when he does and doesn't get to drive. He just gets it. And I think that the success we have had has been in a large part due to him.   
  
  Q. Jeff, with your success this year and winning races and the team doing well, what has that done to both your attitude and that of the team, and how do you keep that sustained going forward?   
 JEFF SEGAL: I think it's been really, really helpful. The whole Mazda family has been very successful because we all share all of our data across the board, every Mazda that's out there is part of that Mazda family and we really do all help each other. Having said that, traditionally, the 70 car, has been the strongest Mazda.   
 So for a long time it was a bit frustrating that we always had the speed to always get close, but when it came time for the results it was always there, and really what's that done is motivate our whole team that works on the 69 car to just work that much harder. Everybody on the crew has upped their game in the last two years in terms of the pit stops, the strategy, the preparation on the car. Everything about it has come up a level.  
 And for me, it's taken a big step to realize that it's not just about driving the car. I can't just show up at the race weekend and drive the car. I have to be hands-on with it in terms of deciding what kind of things we want to do with setup before the race and kind of managing the team as much as I can.   
 And I think we have seen the fruits of that labor, and I'm just really proud of all those guys. I think everybody is incredibly motivated even more so now, because there's no reason we can't win on a consistent basis and it's sore of an addicted thing. It's very, very good for the momentum of our team.   
  
  Q. What's the most challenging part of the track last year, Michael had success last year, just talk about that and the momentum you have coming into the race, and how much last year's finish for the team will give you confidence going in?   
 OZZ NEGRI: Well we always had a very strong car at VIR. To me it's one of my favorite tracks. I love, you know, fast corners and that's what you get at VIR, you know, going up the hill with a fast axis and then also the last couple of corners going on to the front straight. It's just like Jeff was saying, it's teamwork, and you know, we are not just drivers.   
 We are the drivers, but we are also part of the technical part. We need to relate to the team what we need, what we want with ideas, suggestions. Me and my engineer, we talk quite a lot before the race, before race weekends, and we come out there with a plan. And then it's up to us to just deliver that plan, which has been -- it's been working very well this year. It's also my sixth year with Mike Shank Racing, and you know, we are pretty much like a very solid, closed group. We know each other quite a lot and we know which member of the team needs and what you are thinking. You know, I think we are very in sync with each other.   
 VIR, they are a couple of things that you know we definitely look for which is traction coming out of those corners and changing direction and making sure the car can change direction well going up the hill to the fast axis and then coming back down the hill on the back side of the track; that's what we mostly look for.   
 Also, you know, this is an endurance race, so we have got to be able to go fast but we have got to be able, also, to go fast for a long time. You know, that's very important and that's what really helped us at Barber. We had a great car on low tires. A car that is very easy to drive and a car that stops so well and enabled me to make the passes.   
 Like I said, this is all work done before we go to the race between me, my engineer, Dave Kanning and Jeff Schaffner and the whole entire Mike Shank Racing organization.   
  
  Q. I was interested in something you said earlier, I had a driver, an open-wheel driver this weekend tell me he felt better as a driver after driving in sports cars. And it sounds like that's something that you feel, also. Am I accurate in that?   
 OZZ NEGRI: I don't know if it's exactly like this. I was pretty successful in the formula cars, and you know, so far I achieved a little bit more in the formula cars than what I did in sports cars. I would love to win one of those Rolex watches by winning the tournament, 24 Hour, and being in the Top 3 in the championship, that's mainly our goal.   
 But what I'm really enjoying is the racing; the way the drivers are competitive. You cannot leave anything on the table, absolutely nothing. I mean, you see that most of the IRL teams, they keep saying that, you know, Ganassi, it's a tough team to beat. It's a tough team to beat.   
 It's exactly the same thing here at Grand Am, we have Ganassi guys, we have the GAINSCO and we have Sun Trust and you know, any motorsports, all those things, they are so hard to beat that you're going to bring your best here. You've got to lay out your best game and you always have to be able to pull from the bottom of the hole everything you learned in your career; you should be able to run up front and that's really cool about Grand Am racing, there's about ten cars that can win every weekend.   
  
  Q. That's not the case, though, in open-wheel. Let me ask you a little different way: When he was saying that the ability to manipulate the car, open-wheel is almost a spec series now, his ability to manipulate the car in sports car racing, the competition that you're talking about, all of that has made him a better driver. Do you feel that, that you're a better driver now, even the success that you had in open-wheel, do you think you're a better driver now?  
 OZZ NEGRI: Yeah, absolutely and just like he said, the competition being so difficult, the level of competition being so high, you have to be digging, digging for more, digging for more all the time, learning. It's a never-end learning curve; I can promise you that. You go to the track and you've got to find some more time or, you know, find some more ways to go fast or to keep up front more information to deliver to your engineer so he can help you go fast. So you know what, I definitely think I'm a much better driver than I was before, absolutely.   
  
  Q. Is open-wheel out of Oswaldo Negri's system now?   
 OZZ NEGRI: Listen, everything that there is wheels, an engine, a steering wheel, it's in my system, I can tell you that. Everything that has an engine and I can drive, it's in my system for a long time hopefully.   
  
  Q. I saw in your bio that you mentioned Senna (ph) as a driving hero when you were coming up. Was it his passion for the sport or the speed or the car control that he had in his career? Are those things that you emulate in your driving?   
 OZZ NEGRI: I would say so. I had the pleasure of racing for the same team that Senna (ph) used to race in go-kart. And obviously I was only a junior watching someone already very successful and brilliant in what they were doing. So you really try to see what are the qualities, you know, and where and how can I beat the guy, how can I be as good as he is.   
 You know, so just keep working very hard and you know, his education, he was always very serious about what he was doing; that was his priority in life. You know, the way he was going after his goals was something that would impress me and that's one of the things that I really use, you know, in my career. I don't take no for an answer and I go after everything until I'm totally exhausted and I cannot find what I want anymore, and I'm talking about a way of going quick or a way of making my car go quick or having ideas, just stuff like that.  
 If you talk to my engineer, he will say that I'm the biggest thorn in his side because I call him Sunday at 6 o'clock, 8 o'clock at night; I call him any time that something shows up on my mind. But he definitely accepts all this, because he knows that what I want is just the success of our team and our car.   
  
  Q. Is that something that you take into the rest of your life if you want some music or you're looking for the perfect meal; do you take that same passion and aggression into everything that Oswaldo Negri does?   
 OZZ NEGRI: 100 percent. And sometimes I get a pretty hard time from my girls. I have a wife and two girls and they tell me that I always do everything, you know, to the max, and I don't relax. I definitely try in life, I definitely try to find a balance in things. I don't think too much of one thing is good enough, and too little is not good enough, either.   
 So I try to look for a balance and you know, sometimes I can tell you that my wife and my kids are the ones that give me that balance.   
  
  Q. What are any special challenges or anything special you need to look into to take care of heading into Virginia International Raceway, as opposed to some of the other tracks on the circuit?   
 JEFF SEGAL: I think first and foremost, the biggest challenge is going to be trying to establish a baseline for our car with the rules adjustments. We haven't run the car like this. We don't know how the tire is going to react or what changes we'll have to make to compensate. Right off the bat we have something extra on the agenda to take care of.   
 The second challenge particularly for this week is the time frame, having practiced in qualifying and really every opportunity you have to improve the car, be so close together in one day, we really have to be spot-on with every change that we make. But specifically, with VIR, the track last year seemed to suit our car pretty well, and unfortunately our car was caught up early in an incident in the race and we never got to show how good our car was.   
 But you have really two competing forces at VIR which makes set up a bit challenging. The first one is that you've got a really, really strong straightaway at the back straightaway. So you have to make sure your car has good top speed so you can take over other cars and so that you don't worry so much about being overtaken on other portions on the straightaways.  
 Having said that you can't just turn the car out and make it a rocket on the straight because you have a lot of really high-speed corners, particularly the upper climbing axis, it's; fifth gear, sixth gear in our car and you're just sort of trying to hang on to make sure you keep it on the track. Things happen so quickly. So you want to have a lot of downforce on the car for that, but at the same time you can't afford to have the drag on the car for the straightaways.  
 In terms of setup, it's challenging. Having said that, it's a track that I really like and I have a lot of experience at that track and I'm pretty confident that we can unload the car strong out of the trailer, which is very important, and then go on to have a good race.   
  
  Q. I got a recent review on a YouTube that Mr. Assentato, your co-driver, did last year, narration of one lap of VIR and he went around the Oak Tree turn that leads to that long back straight you just referenced, and while he was narrating it he said, "Get the heck out of here." What did he mean by that? Was it the preceding S's, or just that whole section and looking forward to just nailing the throttle on that long back stretch?   
 JEFF SEGAL: You know, Emil is really a character. At certain tracks that are certain corners that he just doesn't like. You know, there are certain tracks where you'll look at his data and you can't believe how quick he's going, and there are other tracks where the simplest corner, he'll struggle and struggle and struggle.   
 And probably what he was referencing was that Oak Tree corner, I remember last year going over the data over and over and over again with him trying to get through that corner, because really it's not a terribly difficult corner; it's incredibly slow. It's very straightforward, but it's very, very important because of the long straightaway that's after it. And I think Emil was probably just referencing that that was a corner that he's not particularly fond of. That wouldn't surprise me.   
  
  Q. You referenced your dear wife, Claudia, and your daughters, both of whom I've seen grow up, and now the oldest of which is in college; have any of them ever tried to talk you out of racing?   
 OZZ NEGRI: No, absolutely not. They love what I do. They support me very much. They only one day just told me that they wish during the week, at least once or twice, I would wear a suit and a tie like the other normal dads that they do, which is pretty funny.   
 No, they really support me. My whole family, all of the races, they are shown live in Brazil. Everybody watches. So it's a good and big Brazilian community which watch the races. So their friends and cousins, they are always supporting, and you know, they love what I do. They are aware of, you know, what it takes, time away and everything.   
 And you know, they help me very much and support me very much with it. And my wife, I mean, I know my wife since I was 12 years old, as you know, so when I met her then, I was already racing go-karts. So that's how she met me, like knowing that I was racing and that I would be racing as long as I could.   
  
  Q. I remember we talked a couple of years ago when you were in the Koni Challenge Series, and you were starting to get fast then. It's always fascinated me what causes a guy to get fast; what flips the switch for JEFF SEGAL and he learns how to get fast, and not just be fast but learns winning time. You've won two races in a row, so obviously you've learned what winning time is.   
 JEFF SEGAL: I think probably the most important thing for my progression as a driver is the people I've been surrounded with, from the time I started racing, especially racing in Grand Am, I've had a really good support network to draw from. I've had incredible co-drivers, I've had really good teams and you sort of draw from each of those guys.   
 You know, in the Koni Challenge series, I don't think I ever had a problem going quickly in that car, but I definitely couldn't tell you why I was going quickly, and I couldn't tell the team what they needed to do to improve the car.   
 So a lot of it was just sort of raw, you know, I didn't have the background to draw from, and obviously with more experience and listening to the input that some of the really experienced guys give, you start to draw from what they are feeling and put it into words.   
 And from there, besides telling the team what is wrong with the car, you can start to suggest changes on your own and you really -- it spiraled for me from there. So definitely the people I've been surrounded with, long-time friend and co-driver, Nick Longhi, has been incredibly helpful to draw from, and now active in our program driving in the endurance races. Sylvain Tremblay at SpeedSource has been a great mentor for me, and in the Challenge Series working with Joe Vardy (ph), an incredible guy and is the guy I would say is responsible for the championship we have won there.  
 And I would say that I have learned a lot not only from those guys but the guys I've driven with, and I would say that's it the difference between me now and a few years ago. I don't think I drive the car any faster than I could then but I can definitely make the car go faster than I could then. And just the more experience you get, you understand how to win races and that's something that in the last few years has really click for me.   
 You know, it's not about going maximum speed every single lap. I mean, sometimes you've got to think about your decision and how that it might affect you later in the race, whether it's saving fuel or tires or breaks or thinking twice about making an aggressive move on somebody where you might have contacts on them and the biggest thing is when you have an incident with somebody, it used to be enough for me to say, it wasn't my fault. But ultimate willy it didn't matter whose fault it is; if you damage the car, you're not going to win the race. So even if you're absolutely in the right, you still have got to make the decisions that keep you out of harms way, and that's probably the most important thing that I have learned.   
  
  Q. Maturity and experience obviously has flipped the switch for you. Magic Johnson in the NBA used to talk about winning time and you came right to the edge of that. Can you recognize winning time during a race because of that experience and maturity behind the wheel?   
 JEFF SEGAL: The last two races have been funny the way the strategy has worked out. It certainly was not an accident that he with were where we were but our strategy has been to reason run a very conservative middle stint and just make sure that we are in position to be in contention for the win when the last stint starts.   
 So we sort of have those underwhelming middle stints where I'm just being incredibly careful and trying to get excellent gas mileage and trying to get a good tire there to set you up. But the last two races I've been sitting in the car with maybe 35 minutes left going, man, we could win this thing. And on the one hand that's a great feeling, knowing that you're in contention, but on the other hand, it's a terrifying feeling because when you start to think like that you maybe start to lose your focus.   
 So I tried to block that out of my mind as much as possible. I know going into the race what my game plan is for driving, I know what I need to do. Ultimately this is all about a championship at the end of the year, so until the end of the year when the points thing is very clear, right now, all I care about is scoring good points.   
 And if that means that I finish second or third or fifth, I'm prepared to take whatever the car and the circumstances are going to give us and we have been fortunate to win last two, hopefully we win a few more this year but really there's a bigger overall strategy and the wins are sort of just icing on the cake.   
  
  Q. So finally, Scott Pruett told me once that at this part of the season, he's racing himself, he's getting the car ready for the championship run at the end of the year. Is that kind of the same thing for Jeff Segal, that he is getting the car ready and getting himself ready so that when the championship winning time comes at the end of the year, you're there and can capitalize on the work you're doing now?  
 JEFF SEGAL: Yeah, I certainly hope so. It's an incredibly long season and a lot of things can happen, so it's far too early to go into any sort of championship mind-et no matter where you are in the points. But really, for me, maybe my approach is a bit different.   
 I can look at the schedule and probably identify three or four races that I was less confident about than others, whether it's the performance much the car at the track or some other circumstance, you know, there are a few races that I'm less confident than other ones, and as we get through the season, and I can check off more of those races. And then I've got the ones I'm really comfortable with, you know, in my mind, sort of sitting there in the bag, I'm happier and more confident, but really anything can happen.  
 You can go to the track where you're second clear of everybody and you're driving really well and everything looks great and you can have a ten cent part fail and we've had that happen.   
 So really you have to put yourself in the position to win and then hope everything works out.   
  
  Q. For clarity again, it's getting yourself and your team ready for what you hope to be a championship run later in the year?   
 JEFF SEGAL: Yeah, absolutely, 100 percent. Right now I think the standings are sort of irrelevant. All we can do is make sure that we perform as well as we can and get as many points as opportunities present us with, and if we are in contention at the end, then we can start to race other people for sure.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, and thank you Ozz and Jeff for joining us today. Best of luck in Saturday's Bosch Engineering 250 at VIR.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT