NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 24, 2006
Steve Nash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Steve, obviously you hadn't scored much until the very last three minutes of the game.  Did you consciously feel like it's time for me to take over the game when you scored 10 in a row? 
 STEVE NASH:  I think late in the game you definitely don't want to pass up opportunities.  You have to be aggressive.  And for much of the second half I was trying to facilitate our other guys and take mismatches into the post and our guys were playing great down there.  So I really wanted to let them go for it. 
 But you know late, especially when they got the nine point lead, it was important to make some shots and to be aggressive. 
 So I guess in a way I tried to be a little more aggressive. 
 Q.  Can you talk about your teammate, Boris Diaw, how huge he was tonight? 
 STEVE NASH:  Boris was amazing.  I'm very, very proud of him.  He's just getting better and better.  And he's doing it on a big stage now.  So it's exciting to see a young guy really want the ball and to be fearless, you know, when it counts.  And obviously he had a terrific game and then made a big shot for us.  I'm really proud of him. 
 Q.  Steve, what did you think of Devin Harris play tonight how did he help spark their run in that third period? 
 STEVE NASH:  He was great.  Stretches he kept them in it.  And he's really a terrific penetrator and got to the free throw line a few times and finished around the basket.  He had a great game. 
 Q.  Steve, can you talk about respect kind of being hard to come by?  Everyone said the Lakers would give you a hard time and Clippers might upset you.  Now does this win finally give you some respect? 
 STEVE NASH:  I don't know.  You know, we're not really concerned with it.  I don't know if we'll ever really get respect unless we win the thing.  So it's not important to us.  You know, we feel good about ourselves.  We feel like we've overcome a lot of adversity this year to be where we are and we want to see how good we can get. 
 Q.  Coach said Boris's big shot there that was actually designed for you and you realized pretty soon that they had read the play and can you take us through what you heard what you saw and the adjustments you made? 
 STEVE NASH:  I saw their bench basically yelling out exactly what was going to happen.  So I was like, okay, plan B.  And I was about to call time out but then I thought Boris's playing great, if Tim can get it to him let Tim get it to him, I won't crowd and make a crowd.  If he didn't, Tim would have called time out or I would have.  Got it inside to him and Boris made a heck of a play. 
 Q.  I was wondering if you could talk about the tempo of the game tonight and how the Suns were able to dictate the pace of the game? 
 STEVE NASH:  Well, I don't know if I can say we dictated the pace of the game, because they were pretty successful tonight, too.  Obviously you wouldn't be talking about the tempo if we hadn't made that last shot.  So you know they're more than capable with their speed and depth to play at that pace as well. 
 And you know it's not necessarily a case where we dictated the tempo.  We happened to win by one basket.  It's a tempo we were very comfortable with but they were comfortable with it obviously too. 
 Q.  Their focus of preventing y'all's three point game, do you feel it will be this easy to get to the rim for the rest of series? 
 STEVE NASH:  I think there will be a lot of adjustments.  You know, it's difficult to say what's going to happen.  But you know you gotta make the most of whatever defense they decide to play, and if they're going to take away three-point shots, you know we gotta make them pay in other ways. 
 So we'll see.  We'll see what transpires.  It's going to be a long series.  And it's going to be very important for us to be able to read and react to how they play us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT