NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 19, 2005
Steve Nash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Are you going to take yours to Majerle's and make a collection for Phoenix? 

STEVE NASH:  He can have it, I guess.  We need to cut the top off so we can put beer in it if we take it to Dan's.

Q.  Phoenix Suns are represented pretty well so far, you must be proud?

STEVE NASH:  Yeah, it's fun.  We even got Thunder Dan back in the swing of things.  It's great for the organization.  This year has been really exciting for all of the fans, coming out and really getting behind us.  I think that was a really important thing for the organization this year.

Q.  Did you do any preparation or just go out? 

STEVE NASH:  This morning, you know, we did a bit, but I've been struggling a little bit lately, so I didn't want to really run around and do something.  So just kind of figured out that bounce pass and then let it go. 

Q.  Just try to put a little pressure on Q and Joe?

STEVE NASH:  Well, I felt the pressure because I expected one of them to win.  I expected Amare to win, so I felt like I might be the weak link.  It was nice to get it out of the way.

Q.  Have you told Pop that you want to only play a certain amount tomorrow?

STEVE NASH:  We're going to see how I feel tomorrow and see how it goes.  If I feel like it's a good idea not to play too much, Pop, he's great, he'll let us do whatever.  Hopefully I'll feel fine and really have a good time. 

Q.  What's wrong with you, what is ailing? 

STEVE NASH:  I've had a little hammy for about three weeks almost, so it's just kind of getting worse and worse.  Yeah, that answers your question, I think. 

Q.  Second question, a bunch of your teammates yesterday were mentioning you for MVP honors, the early leader in the clubhouse.  I know you've said before, your teammates do such a great job that you don't want to take a lot of credit, but is that still nice to hear, like guys from Kevin Garnett, Shaquille O'Neal?

STEVE NASH:  Unbelievable.  I don't know if I was blessed with the same gene pool as those guys, so for me to be in the position that I'm in is a lot of fun.  It's extremely flattering and humbling.  You know, I have so much respect for those guys, just to be mentioned with them, let alone by them, it's amazing. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT