UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Marquise Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Marquise, there is no way that your knee was down in that kickoff? 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: There was no way my knee was down. I didn't think my knee was down, but they called it.

 Q. You'd know, you were there. 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: Yes, sir.

 Q. Marquise, what's it like coming in, first year, go undefeated. You get this opportunity to go for the title? 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: It's a dream come true, man. Coming from high school, all the way from being on a track scholarship and then, you know, walking on to the football team and having an opportunity to be here today. It was just a blessing to be able to do it.

 Q. Do you think the freshmen and the young guys feel a little more anxious when you get out there? 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: I don't think so. You know, the older guys have helped everybody stay in control, and you know, stay focused on what we have to do while we're in Pasadena. 

 Q. Do you feel like you're jumping in like a World Championship or playing the National Championship?
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: Playing the National Championship. Man, it took a lot to get here. Being undefeated. Having to go undefeated against all these great teams that we played against, you know. And it also being a team thing as opposed to me making it to the world championship, it's kind of my own thing, you know. I depend on the guy right next to you to do his job, it's pretty neat. 

 Q. Is it good to get D.J. back in the rotation or are you going to compete to keep him out? 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: I'm going to keep competing to keep my job as well. Hopefully he can come in there and make some positives and turn everything around.

 Q. You guys make a great combination. 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: Yes, ma'am. I guess. 

 Q. They're anticipating this to be a defensive game. Is it less conventional to what you do or have you thought about that? 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: I'm very excited, you know. It's just another challenge for me to go out there and go make something happen. It will be a great game, playing against a great team, great defense of the we've just got to go out there and focus and do what we've got to do to come out with the win. 

 Q. Compare what Coach Brown did talking about the young guys with all the experience on track and performing in front of large crowds and stuff like that. How are you going to use your track experience to get ready and maybe get some of your teammates ready? How has it helped you? 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: It's helped me a lot. It's experienced what I have in track you know, just got to get focused. Stay focused on the task at hand. We said at the beginning of the year they'll go undefeated. Win the state championship, you know, win the Big 12 South. Win the Big 12 Championship, and win the National Championship. So we've accomplished three of those goals and we have one more to do. It's just helped a lot to prepare for this game.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT