UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 27, 2012
Marquise Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Marquise Goodwin.  
   
 Q. How confident are you in David Ash as the starting quarterback?   
MARQUISE GOODWIN: I'm very confident. He's done an exceptional job out there, both he and Case McCoy. Whoever fills in that role, whoever assumes that role, is definitely prepared for the job.   
   
 Q. How has he prepared for that starting role?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN: Like I said, they are both capable of starting. They both go out there and work hard every day. I guess it's really all about who minimizes their mistakes. You know, they are both out there grinding, making plays in practice, studying film. They are competing for that job every day, all day. Even when they are sleeping, they are competing with each other.   
So I guess it's really Coach's decision who goes out there to play to start; but, you know, they are definitely both capable of being the man. So just really excited to see what he'll do September 1.   
   
 Q. How do you think David's changed from the Holiday Bowl to today? Where do you see the most change in him?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN: He's definitely matured a lot as a person. Grown up a lot since he's been here over his one‑year span. You know, he's really assumed a real leadership role on this team. He knows his place. He knows his role, and he's doing it very well.   
So you know, he'll be ready to go.   
   
 Q. Inaudible.   
MARQUISE GOODWIN: Oh, yeah, definitely. I wasn't even‑‑ oh, yeah, that was my first game back. You know, it was just different. I didn't even know, really, any of my teammates coming in, and he was like a deer in the headlights last year his first game. And now he's really confident. He's been perfecting his craft, and so he'll be ready to go September 1.   
   
 Q. What are your expectations?   
MARQUISE GOODWIN: Winning, that's what I'm looking forward to most. Just going out there and competing every day in practice, and then have fun on Saturdays. That's what it's all about. When you put in the work during the week and on the weekends, it's all fun.   
So winning is fun, and we'll be doing a lot of that this year hopefully.   
   
 Q. Inaudible?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN: Really we don't have nothing to prove to anybody but ourselves that, you know, we can be better than what people think we are. We definitely have been working hard, grinding every day, making plays. We are capable of being the top receiving core in the nation.   
We obviously don't get credit for it but I think he'll do very well this year. We have been grinding every day. Been putting in the work. Been watching film in the weight room, been putting in work, so we definitely have those qualities to be the best. We just have to show everybody and gain the respect from everybody that we can't be the best.   
   
 Q. Is the offense excited to show what they can do and make a name for themselves?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN: We are definitely excited. Defense has always a rich tradition around here of being really great in what they do. And the offense, we'll definitely get a chance to show what we can do. Last year was the first year we had the new offense put in, so coming up this year, we are very confident in our new offense.   
It's not so new to us any more, since we have installed it, we have really gotten a lot comfortable with the coaches, as well as each individual player, and we know what everybody can do. We look forward to playing on September 1 and showing everybody else how confident we are.   
   
 Q. Are you anxious?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN: I'm anxious, I'm not going to lie. It came around really fast for me, coming back from the Olympic Games so soon and getting right back into football.   
I'm just really excited to see what we can do as a team.   
   
 Q. Is it strange for the seniors to see how much the team has changed from last year?   
MARQUISE GOODWIN: It's definitely different. Not so much strange, but just a little overwhelming. It's like, I just came in as a freshman, played in the National Championship game, and here I am my senior year, having to kick off my last opening game as a college football player.   
It's definitely been an exciting journey to share with the people that have been here, and that have helped me get to where I am now and helped me accomplish all the things that I have since I've been here.   
I'm just excited. It's my last first game for the university, and ready to put it all out there on the line.   
   
 Q. Does Alabama's defense‑‑  
MARQUISE GOODWIN: Really haven't watched too much film just yet. We really have just been working on Texas. So this year we are going to prepare a lot more for Wyoming. I know they have got a lot of key players on defense, so I'm looking forward to playing them.   
   
 Q. What do you tell the freshmen?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN: Just the mentality of working hard every day and really just fighting every day for your position. You know, around here, receivers haven't really got a whole lot of respect as far as being like a good group. And so I think we can change that this year, the whole mentality of receivers, being smash mouth, going out there and blocking for the running back, being unselfish, doing the little things that it takes to help our team win and not being so, what can I do to make me a winner today.   
Just changing the whole mentality in the room and continuing to make each other better every day and doing the little things right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT