UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 21, 2011
Marquise Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   You've had a really big impact on this game the last two years.   What are you going to do this week?   
MARQUISE GOODWIN:   Man, this is my last chance against A&M, already my third year.   Time has flown by so fast, especially this season.   You know, the opportunity presents itself, I'm just going to do what I need to do to help the team win.   I'm not going to be Superman, I'm not going to be Captain America, I'm not going to be Flash, I'm going to be Marquise Goodwin and I'm going to go out there and play my heart out.  
   
 Q.   What's so special to you about this game?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN:   It's been a great rivalry over the past, you know, however long this rivalry has been present.   They hate us, and we go in there and both teams give their all.   They fight hard, no matter the record.   You never know who's going to win.   It's an exciting game, so it's going to be really fun.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe how it feels to play in Kyle Field?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN:   Kyle Field is pretty loud.   As I said, they don't really like Texas Longhorns too much, so when we come in there we get a lot of boos.   I'm pretty much looking forward to it actually.   I can't wait.  
   
 Q.   They've got that barking dog and the guys with those swords.   Is that what also makes it intimidating?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN:   I'm not intimidated one bit.   But like I said, it's an exciting game.   I can't wait to play.   I wish it was Thursday today.   
   
 Q.   You brought up your recent history with them.   What are some of your favorite memories against A&M?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN:   Man, my favorite memory, just securing that W my freshman year.   Man, it seemed like yesterday.   We just pulled together as a unit, offense and defense, and it was a hard‑fought game.   We had a better record obviously, but you know, they came in, they didn't play us like they played the team before, and it's never like that.   Same way with Oklahoma; both A&M and Oklahoma, any other team, they play Texas different than they would play any other team that they play.   So you know, to have that type of competition, it's just a blessing to go out there and to know that you're going to get a good competition from those guys that's lining up across from you.  
   
 Q.   How much different is a short week, and is that going to throw y'all off a little bit?   How much different is it?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN:   It's so much different.   You go from not really‑‑ Monday being your day off to Monday being the busiest day because you've got to get ready for Thursday.   You know, you have to manage your time differently.   We have to work around schedules with classes and everything and meetings and rehab and prehab.   
It's pretty difficult, but we have to do it.   
   
 Q.   Is part of what makes this week so special is because it is different?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN:   Most definitely.   Not a whole lot of time to prepare, but we've got to make the most of our time that we have.   
   
 Q.   Case hasn't played a ton the last four weeks, obviously came in the last couple weeks but hasn't played a ton.   Do you think he's ready for a start in this kind of atmosphere?   
MARQUISE GOODWIN:   I think so.   He's got it in his blood.   You saw what his brother did two years ago.   He's got it in him.   Young guys, it's hard to come out and try to lead a team, you know, your first two years, your first year.   It's hard.   I didn't play a whole lot my freshman year, but it was still hard for me to come in and try to make plays on especially 3rd down.   You know, they have to make a play every play, and so I think they're ready, though.   I think all they've got to do is stay focused on the task at hand.   Just got to go out there and have fun, realize it's just another game, same game that we played the first game of the year.   It's just a different title on it.  
   
 Q.   You talked about your frustration not having as many catches in the passing game.   Have you sensed that with the quarterbacks, too, that they've got that frustration that it's not happening?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN:   Most definitely.   They get frustrated at times just as anybody else.   You know, it's just one of those things; it happens, and it's happening to us, and it is what it is.   But you know, we've just got to figure out a way to win no matter what.   It's not all about how many touchdowns I catch or how many touchdown passes the quarterback throws to the receivers or how many touchdowns the running back runs or how many yards the running back is going to get this game.   You know, it's all about executing as a whole, executing as a team and going out there and getting the W for the team.   
   
 Q.   Do you think both quarterbacks are kind of going through growing pains as they try to grow up and mature on the field?  
MARQUISE GOODWIN:   I wouldn't necessarily say growing pains.   I do feel like it is a little rough for them at times.   Like I said, them being younger guys and having to step up and play at the level that they are, this is not six‑man high school football, seven‑man.   This is Division I college football at the University of Texas where everybody is going to play you hard every time, every snap of the ball.   And so it's a lot of pressure put on those guys.   I commend them for doing what they have this year, them being young and having to be the brains of the operation.   They seem to handle it well, and they can do anything‑‑ they can't do anything but get better from now on.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT