UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2011
Marquise Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Obviously you're from the Dallas area, what does it mean playing this game to you especially?
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: It's a home game for me. I get the opportunity to see my family and a few friends and it's a great rivalry. We get to play Oklahoma. They are ranked No. 1. Obviously they deserve to be there and it's just a great opportunity to show not only the fans in Texas but all across the world what we are capable of.

 Q. You made an impact a few years ago; does that make it a little bit easier for you now having to go back through it and dealing with all that there is to deal with this game? 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: It's a lot easier. It's my third year, and I'm only 20 years old. So just a great opportunity to go out there and show what I can do. I was fortunate enough to play my freshman year to actually score during the game and produce; so you know, I'm looking ahead and wondering just what I can do now. Knowing I did that my freshman year, and I've got a lot more skills now, a lot more fundamentals, and so I'm just excited to see what I can do this year.

 Q. From that moment, does that give you a perception as a freshman, going in with no experience and not knowing what the game is like?
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: Definitely, I was there at one point as well as anybody who played their freshman year. I was able to make an impact on the team that year and it was a just a blessing for me to do so. It was a great opportunity for me to go out and make that catch. 
 Even now I, tell them go in and focus and do what you've been doing all year. It's the same game that you've been playing since you were probably in the pee wee league. There's nothing different, it's just a different title to explore your game.

 Q. What do you like about the offense, the things that you have to you do --
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: It's electrifying. It's a great opportunity for everyone to get the ball and a great opportunity for everyone to get the opportunity to show what they can do. I have always been told it's going to be a small window of opportunity and it's going to be up to you to take advantage of it or not to. And Coach definitely gives that you opportunity to go out there and shine and whether you mess up or not, there will probably be someone else there to take your position. So subbing people in and out, getting them reps; I commend them for that. 

 Q. Is it that if you get a drink of water, you might miss your call -- is it like that, where everybody is sort of on their toes? 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: You are definitely not going to miss your call because you're going to be on that sideline waiting for your package to be called. So you have to be on your toes at all times and drinking water, I guess that can wait. 

 Q. How about the rivalry in general, what it's like? 
 MARQUISE GOODWIN: A lot of excitement. Texas - OU, battling, it's a big grind. That's all it is, a grind the whole game, everybody just smashing each other's head, getting after it. It's a great game, great atmosphere, and you have half crimson and half burnt orange and white. It's just a great rivalry to be a part of. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT