WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2005
Jonathan Marray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What went wrong at 3-Love in the fifth then, do you think? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: I think basically I missed a few first serves, and I think I maybe had a double-fault. And, yeah, I mean, he was returning quite well - well, he started, he was returning quite well in the fourth and the fifth. And, yeah, basically that's what happened. I missed a few volleys, yeah.  
 
Q. Was the fifth where it went wrong? The fourth set was -- 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, the fourth set was, yeah, he kind of stepped it up a bit. I mean, I think maybe if I tried -- if I got a better start to the fourth set and maybe kept with him for a few games, his head might have dropped a little bit. But I suppose he got a good start in the fourth and he took off from there. He got the momentum and, yeah, I lost - what was it? - 6-1 or something, yeah.  
 
Q. Is it difficult when the finish line's in sight like that? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah. I mean, obviously, it goes through your mind, which it shouldn't really do, about trying to win, especially in -- well, a tournament like this, it would be obviously nice to get through it. But, yeah, I mean, he stepped it up a bit as well, so I don't think I did a huge amount wrong.  
 
Q. Does it feel as if lightning struck twice after what happened last year? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, a little bit. I mean, yeah, I was a break up in the fifth again last year against Beck. But, I mean, I was a bit happier with my performance this year, I think, rather than last year. I mean, I didn't -- last year I kind of -- I really had big chances, obviously, matchpoints and everything. But I think it was me last year that lost it, rather than this year; I think he kind of just won it.  
 
Q. He never looked happy on court. 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: No, I mean...  
 
Q. He was chuntering away. 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah. I mean, I think he was questioning a few calls. But, I mean, probably he hasn't played many people the way I play and stuff, and it's -- don't know, really. Maybe I put him under a bit of pressure and he missed a few and got frustrated with himself.  
 
Q. When you said it was "me that lost it last year" rather than "he won it"... 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, well, I think so. I mean, I had my chances and it didn't -- yeah, I kind of lost the match, whereas this year he stepped it up and played a bit better.  
 
Q. He was saying he was getting some calls from the crowd that were quite unsavory. 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Is that right?  
 
Q. Did you pick up on that? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: No. I don't know. I don't know. I mean, obviously, most of the crowd I think were behind me, but I didn't hear anything that was out of order or anything.  
 
Q. Is it frustrating when you can't take performances like that through the rest of the year? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Well, I hope I can do this time. I mean, last year, yeah, it was disappointing after the performance here and, yeah, last summer as well. I kind of, yeah, I lost the plot a bit for the last six months of that year. But, I mean, hopefully this year I can put that right. And, I mean, I've got six months now. I'm hardly losing any points, so I can kind of build on my ranking and hopefully improve it.  
 
Q. Sounds like there are quite a few positives from your performance today. 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, I mean, yeah, definitely. I'm not feeling like I did last year anyway. Yeah, I mean, I didn't play my best and I still had -- well, nearly won the match really. So, I mean, I've got things I can work on. And, yeah, I mean, I'm quite positive about it and hopefully can bring it into the next six months.  
 
Q. What do you need to do to take that final step and win a deciding set at Wimbledon? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Well, I just have to basically play a bit better in the last set and maybe not get as tight - but you're always going to, I suppose. But I don't know really. Just... I don't know.  
 
Q. Are you still going to stay a serve-and-volleyer? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yep, yep. I don't think -- I mean, that's the way I've always played and I don't think I'd beat as many people from the back to be honest with you. So that's the way I play.  
 
Q. What begins to go through your mind when you are so close to winning? Do you drift a bit? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Well, yeah, you do, I suppose. Yeah, I mean, I think I probably did a little bit.  
 
Q. What were you thinking about? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Well, you think, Right, you're close now. And then especially from last year as well, I thought, "Let's not do what I did last year." You try and stay a bit in the present, but your mind does wander sometimes. You think it would be great to win this and whatever. But, I mean, that's probably something I'll learn, to stay in the present and keep concentration a bit better.  
 
Q. Some were saying that it inspires British players to come here and play. Would you agree with that, or does it maybe give you a touch more nerves as well if you're stepping out in these surroundings? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: I mean, if you want to be playing tennis at a decent level, you've got to play in these conditions, in these surroundings. I think everyone -- it's everyone's dream to come and play here, I think. I think it's good for us to get the opportunity and play here, and that just shows you how not-so-far-away from all these guys, I think.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT