WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2004
Jonathan Marray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Very disappointing way to lose, with a matchpoint. 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, obviously. Yeah, losing is not great. But when you have a few chances, few matchpoints, it's even worse really, isn't it?  
 
Q. Everybody's talking about the forehand on the third matchpoint. 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah. Yeah, I think I'll remember that one for a while, actually, as well. Yeah, I mean, I got in the point, made a decent return. I was obviously trying to get into the net.  
 
Q. First of all, you missed a smash, didn't you? Well, you didn't miss it. You didn't put the smash away. There was a rally. Suddenly, you were left with this kind of... 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Can't remember. I'm trying to forget it already, I think.  
 
Q. Did you find yourself thinking about the third matchpoint as the game was going? Did you put it out of your mind? I know it's easier said than done, but you've got to try to put it out of your mind. 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, got to try and put it out of my mind. Probably played on my mind a little bit. But you try and wipe it out. Don't think it really affected me. He just played a little bit better towards the end, really.  
 
Q. He's a decent player to play, obviously? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, he's not bad. Bit disappointing.  
 
Q. Can you take something out of the fact that you got so close? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, I mean, at least I got myself in position at the end of the day. Yeah, I was just saying, you know, six months ago, if I'd be playing first round Wimbledon, taking someone of his caliber to five sets and stuff, I would have been happy about it. But, I mean, obviously, having the chances that I had today, yeah, I'm just gutted. Missed that forehand long.  
 
Q. What was your ranking this time last year? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: I'm not sure. Probably like 600 or something.  
 
Q. What will you do next? Is it Manchester? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, Manchester, Nottingham. Then maybe I think Brazil or something, the States, some challengers. Take it from there.  
 
Q. Is it next week or two weeks' time, the challenger? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, it kind of starts the Monday after the final here, so... Yeah, so only a week and a half away.  
 
Q. Manchester first? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: I think it might be Nottingham first --maybe.  
 
Q. That forehand, was it all over in a blinding flash? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, I mean...  
 
Q. Were you thinking about it too much? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, probably had too much time. Don't know really. Just, I mean, I went for it. Maybe should have gone down the line. Easier to say now, isn't it? I just went for it and probably was a bit tentative with it and pushed it long, yeah.  
 
Q. As you said earlier, in general it's been a good year for you, hasn't it? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, definitely. Very good year, yeah. Yeah, great six months. But, yeah, my game's come on quite a bit. Obviously, won a few matches like in Queen's and stuff. Should have really won my second-round match in Nottingham as well. But, yeah...  
 
Q. You are putting yourself in these positions. 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Exactly.  
 
Q. That's the important thing. 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, I put myself in the positions, but am not exactly finishing them off at the minute. But I'm sure it will come - one day.  
 
Q. Were you playing Juniors here last year? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: No.  
 
Q. Do you remember what you were doing 12 months ago? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Well, I was in a doubles here, actually. So I was about still. But, yeah, I mean, I was actually around Wimbledon still.  
 
Q. You said you will go to Brazil? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Maybe Brazil.  
 
Q. "Maybe"? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah. Just play some challengers there, I think.  
 
Q. And, I mean, how high would your ranking have to be to start thinking about US Open quallies? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: I think - I think we worked out that I'll probably be in the US Open quallies, scrape in. Yeah, I'll go to Brazil, maybe play a few tournaments in the States before the quallies.  
 
Q. First time there? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: First time out there playing in the US, and first time going to Brazil. I'm looking forward to it.  
 
Q. The fact is, it's hard courts. They will be fast. 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, I mean...  
 
Q. There are a lot of possibilities? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: The courts here are pretty hard. They're saying they're not that quick, really. So I have good results on hard courts leading up to the summer, so I don't see why I can't put my game on and win some matches.  
 
Q. Was it particularly difficult from one end of the court serving with the sun? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: No, the sun wasn't really that much of a problem. The wind from the start of the match today was difficult, obviously, for both of us. It was hard to get your rhythm on the serve. So I think I did make quite a few double-faults. Yeah, I mean, it was difficult conditions. But it's the same for both players, so I can't really blame anything there.  
 
Q. Your bank account is looking a bit better? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, little bit better. Could have been even better if I won today.  
 
Q. Traveling costs, I mean, if you go to Brazil... 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, I've got enough to travel and stuff. I'm quite happy at the minute. Yeah, it's fine.  
 
Q. I'd read somewhere that when you were a bit younger, you sometimes camped at tournaments? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, I mean, some fella was trying to get a story out of me, a funny story out of me. But, I mean, it was just like in the junior tournaments, one tournament a year in the summer. Camped out once like. It wasn't as if I do it all the time (smiling).  
 
Q. How did you spend yesterday? Was it difficult for you? 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: Yeah, well, I was in pretty early yesterday because I was supposed to be first on again. We were practicing indoors half an hour at about eleven. Then basically just got to sit around and wait all day. Just I was here all day really, like in the changing rooms.  
 
Q. Did you do crosswords or get... 
 
 JONATHAN MARRAY: No. When I'm abroad, I usually read a lot. My family's here, and I had people to talk to. So stuff like that.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT