CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MISSISSIPPI STATE v GEORGIA TECH
December 29, 2014
Quayshawn Nealy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I heard Shamire Devine has the most beautiful beach body of all time.   Are my sources correct?
QUAYSHAWN NEALY:   Yeah, your sources are correct.   The guy's pecs, from his arms to that sloppy six‑pack, I would say it's the best body that has been on Miami beach.

Q.   Fun week?
QUAYSHAWN NEALY:   Fun week, definitely.   The thrilling part about this week was yesterday and getting on those jet skis.   Oh, my gosh, I've only been on them a couple times, but I don't remember it like that.   I was always on the back, so to finally just drive one, oh, my gosh, those things are powerful.

Q.   Coach is treating you guys like adults knowing that you'll handle yourselves with professional class, but when it's time to hit the field he knows you'll be ready.   Is this month long layoff way overdue?
QUAYSHAWN NEALY:   Yeah, it's definitely overdue.   I feel like we're ready.   I feel like we went back to camp almost the last week or so, and I feel like, yeah, he has loosened up the knot a little bit and let us get out there and have some fun, and I feel like we've had a lot of fun, but when it's time to work, we get back on the field and work.

Q.   Looking at Mississippi State's offense and what they do, what stands out?
QUAYSHAWN NEALY:   Well, we have to focus on getting our communication to each other because they're a tempo team.   They like to run the hurry‑up offense and they'll spread you out and pass the ball, and a big part of their offense is the quarterback.   The guy is 6'2", 235, he's a big quarterback, and he's a triple threat quarterback, too.   He can run, pass, and extend plays with his feet.   We're going to have to keep him in the pocket and get a lot of defenders to him when we tackle him.

Q.   Your coach always loves historical perspective and he knows what the past has done and he knows what a special opportunity you have in front of you with that 11th win.   What would it mean to you and this program to come away with that number?
QUAYSHAWN NEALY:   It would mean a great deal for us seniors and for the underclassmen to send the seniors out that way.   One in four teams out of 120 plus years at Georgia Tech, to go 11 games, win 11 games, would be a great deal, and I definitely want to make history.

Q.   Have you thought about this is the last time?
QUAYSHAWN NEALY:   Oh, definitely, and no better way to get out than to have these blue jerseys.   Everybody on the team loves the blue jerseys because we don't wear them that much.

Q.   And you get to keep it?
QUAYSHAWN NEALY:   Yeah, we get to keep it, this one and the ACC Championship, so we get two jerseys this year. 

Q.   Talk about your knack for touchdowns.   You've scored a bunch of touchdowns in your career.   How have you been able to do that?
QUAYSHAWN NEALY:   Well, I would have to say first my teammates.   Some of my touchdowns have been off tipped passes with a fumble, sack or whatnot, but I credit them for making the effort to strip the ball and put me in the right position‑‑ my coaches, too, as well, for putting me in the right position, and then secondly, I'll just say that I guess I'm just around the ball at the right time to make those big plays, and just thank God and give him the credit for putting me in that position to make plays, and I'm glad my talent just jumps out.

Q.   They wouldn't let you wear No.2 here?
QUAYSHAWN NEALY:   Well, actually I could have got it after my first two years, but I got accustomed to 54, and I thought this is my identity now, so just go ahead and stick with it.

Q.   Talk about your defense because obviously a lot of the credit for the season goes to the offense, and then you guys have given up some big totals.   How good is your defense?   Do you feel like you're underrated? 
QUAYSHAWN NEALY:   I do feel like we're underrated, but that's always‑‑ our offense shows out every weekend.   Week in and week out, they show out every weekend.   We sometimes get gashed at times, but our defense is going to fight until the end, and no matter what happens out there on the field, we have each other's backs, we have our coaches' backs, they have our backs, and I feel like that really is like‑‑ has molded our defense into what it is now.   I mean, we've come up with big plays at the end, too.   DJ White came up with a big play, Georgia came up with a big play, Virginia Tech.   Give credit to all the guys.   Just putting in a little work in the off‑season to make those big plays and make us who we are today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT