TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2019
Zach McPhearson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Zach, I guess from a defensive perspective, what did you all learn from the Oklahoma game?  
ZACH McPHEARSON: Just overall, probably to stay consistent. We looked at the film today. I mean, some good, some bad. It just didn't work out too well for us.   
We're going to go out there today and make the corrections, do what we've got to do to get better and just stay positive and move on to this week.   
 Q.  What was some of the good in the film?  
ZACH McPHEARSON: It was a few plays. Tommy Leggett had a couple of good plays. Just a lot of effort things, not really, I want to say, from a scheme perspective, but just a bunch of good effort plays that some guys on the defense made. I mean, just -- it's just got to be more everybody doing it.   
 Q.  Can you think of the most frustrating thing that stood out on the tape when you watched it today?  
ZACH McPHEARSON: Yeah, it was a lot. I just know that we didn't play to the standard that we want to play at. We hold ourselves to a high standard, and that's just not the brand of football that we represent. We've got to do better.   
 Q.  What do you see from Oklahoma State and a guy like Tylan Wallace and Spencer Sanders, dual threat at QB. What kind of problems do they potentially have for you guys this Saturday?  
ZACH McPHEARSON: Well, obviously, as QB, we've been seeing it a lot for the past few weeks, a QB that can throw and run. I feel like we're ready for it in an aspect, but on the outside, in the secondary, we've just got to challenge the receivers and not give them anything free, play every play with a chip on our shoulder.   
 Q.  With a guy like Tylan Wallace, one of the best receivers in the nation, in the Big 12, how nice was it at least to see a guy of his caliber in CeeDee Lamb last week so you had some sort of reference?  
ZACH McPHEARSON: It was good. Going against him, he's a great player. Going against Tylan, we've got to challenge him. He's a good receiver, well-respected throughout the league. But we've got to make him earn everything.   
 Q.  When it comes to improving your tackling, is it just a mindset? Is it just a reps kind of thing? How do you do that?  
ZACH McPHEARSON: Tackling is just a mindset, that's all it is. Just in the moment, you've just got to have the will power to do it, whether you're mind's made up or not. That's all tackling is. Tackling can be taught in some ways, but when you're out there, it's just a mindset. You've got to want to get the ball carrier to the ground.   
 Q.  When you kind of look at Oklahoma State, at least the small amount that you guys have looked at so far, what kind of stands out to you in terms of their offense and the playmakers they've got?  
ZACH McPHEARSON: They have a great running game, obviously. I would say overall just probably their run game, just trying to stop their run game and make them pass the ball. They're going to try to beat us around the ball for the most part, but we've just got to go out there, stop the run game, and then they're going to want to pass the ball and then stop that and shut the offense down.   
 Q.  Does Chuba compare to anyone you guys have played so far?  
ZACH McPHEARSON: Yeah, probably Oklahoma. In a way, they're pretty similar.   
 Q.  What can you take from this game as far as (indiscernible) --  
ZACH McPHEARSON: Well, Oklahoma, they really like to try to hit us on the stretch with the boundary. I feel like Oklahoma State is going to try to do the same thing. We got hit on that against Arizona too. Teams probably look at it as a weakness in our defense. We're going to focus a lot on that this week just to stop the stretch in their boundary.   
 Q.  Are you a big flush it kind of guy right after a game when you lose by 30 or 40, or do you kind of let it motivate you a little bit?  
ZACH McPHEARSON: Right after the game, I'll probably be pretty frustrated. It sits on my mind for a while. After a while, you've got to get over it and focus on the next week. Just in my position, that's the mindset of a DB. You can't let stuff sit on your mind too long or it's going to keep on happening. Just got to play the next play and move on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT