CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MIAMI VS WISCONSIN
December 27, 2017
R.J. McIntosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. There's always so much talk about Wisconsin with their power game and Miami with the speed.  How do you think those things are going to match up on Saturday?
R.J. McINTOSH: I think speed --
Q. Do you think people take power for granted sometimes?
R.J. McINTOSH: We just have a lot more speed, so we're going to come out fast, physical.  We can beat this team, so all the hype and stuff like that, you won't have to worry about that.
Q. What kind of happens when Manny Diaz has two, three weeks to study a team?
R.J. McINTOSH: It's scary.  We know their weaknesses.  We know things that we have to do, be better at.  We're fresh right now, so it's going to be scary.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
R.J. McINTOSH: Yeah, I think everybody has that I've talked to.  It's a Miami thing.  I'm not really focusing on that right now.
Q. Is that kind of their next recruiting, that they locked in one signing class, now you've got to recruit you guys these days?
R.J. McINTOSH: Something like that.  It's always, always up to us.  I'm not really worried about it.
Q. Do you think you'll take some time after the game --
R.J. McINTOSH: Maybe a little time.
Q. How do you focus on that obviously without -- people talking about it.
R.J. McINTOSH: I try to stay away from social media.  Definitely I try to block that out.  A lot of people out there think they know what's going to happen, but I try to stay away from it.
Q. How much does it mean to you to have this game where you played high school football?  Here we are in Broward County today; what has this whole experience been like for you?
R.J. McINTOSH: This is very special.  I feel like I'm grateful for this opportunity.  My mom, my dad, my family, they have the opportunity to come out to watch me play this last game of the season, and for it to be home is very special.  Not to be in the cold is also very special.  That's a blessing.  They're up there and it's cold up there.  I'm glad we don't have to play nowhere like that, like my freshman year.  I'm grateful for the opportunity.
Q. How much have you seen this program change since that freshman year to where you are now?
R.J. McINTOSH: It's a big jump.  It was a big jump from that level that we were then.  I think Coach came in and helped change this program around, players locked in, took in to what they wanted to do, what the coaches wanted us to do, and we all became one instead of all people doing their own thing.  That's helped this program change from where it was at.
Q. What's Jon Ford's skill that makes you think he could be a really good player?
R.J. McINTOSH: Just being that big can help make him a great player.  He's strong already as a freshman.  He's quick.  He's coachable.  So if he locks in and takes what Coach tells him like I did basically, I think he'll become a great player.  He needs to learn how to use his hands, which he is.  That's all he had to do is just focus on what Coach tells him and just lock in.
Q. How about Garvin?
R.J. McINTOSH: He's already a -- he gets a little stronger, he's going to be like Joe.  He's quick off the ball.  He's low, and he's definitely coachable.  He's a humble kid.  He listens to all the other D-ends like Chad and Joe and stuff, Trent, asking them what should he do after every one-on-one rep.  I think he's a humble kid, and he's going to be great.
Q. Have you gone up against Corey Gaynor much in practice?
R.J. McINTOSH: Oh, yeah.
Q. What's the scouting report there?
R.J. McINTOSH: He's a good player, too.  He's strong.  He told me I played against him before in high school.
Q. He remembers it?
R.J. McINTOSH: Yeah, but I didn't.  He's a strong kid.  He's smart.  He knows what to do as you can see.  He came in playing a little bit, learning to play quick.  Yeah, he's got to gain a little weight, though.  If he gains a little weight and takes all the advice that all the other O-line give him and the coaches give him, he'll be great, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT