BUICK CLASSIC
June 8, 2000
John Maginnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN MAGINNES: It's been so long since I played well, I'm at a loss for words. It was a
lot of fun. I mean, it was a beautiful morning. I don't know if any of you guys were here
at 7:10 this morning, but it was really nice outside. It was a little cool. But, you know
I get excited about this tournament every year, because it's on such a great golf course.
You know, it's one of the few that's been in the same place for 30 or 40 years. Played 36
down in New Jersey on Tuesday and came out and hit balls for about an hour yesterday, but
was too tired to do a whole lot and said, "Well, we'll just go and see what
happens." I didn't play a practice round. Just got it up there and teed it up this
morning. I had a fun day. It was a very relaxed group. I've played with Murph a lot, Sean
Murphy, who played well. I think he shot 1-under. And he and I are just sort of gabbing
out there and having a good time.

JOHN MAGINNES: I made about a 25-footer on No. 2, which is a nice way to start the day.
The next birdie I made was on 6. I almost made a 1. I hit a little wedge in there three,
four inches from the hole. It should have gone in, actually . No, I'm just kidding.
(Laughs). I missed a lot of birdie putts that I could have made today, but then I made one
on 9 from 35, 40 feet after hitting it on the rough and having 6-iron to the green for my
third shot. But I hit it close on 10 and 11 and missed them. And made a bogey on 12, which
that hole, par is really about 4 3/4; so to make a 5 there, you're not really losing a
whole lot by the field. Then I came right back and hit it to eight feet on 13 and got that
one to go in. And made a 6-footer on 17. It was about as easy a round as you can have at
Westchester, as far as not struggling to make pars, because there's a whole lot of bogeys
out on that golf course. And I managed to keep it manageable all day. I made a few really
nice putts for par, but nothing outrageous. 

Q. Did you make the Open qualifying? 

JOHN MAGINNES: No. I'm going to Maine to eat lobster next week and drink beer. 

Q. You said you haven't been playing well lately. What's up? 

JOHN MAGINNES: You know, if I knew, I would be better. It's just a crazy game. You
know, the harder you work out here -- I mean, I keep getting up in the morning and saying:
"I know I can play, I know I can play." And the next thing I know, I'm 3-over
par. You know, I stand on the range and hit the balls and put in the time and put in the
work. You know, you just do the best you can. I'm not the kind of guy that gets real down
on myself anymore; I used to. It's a long year, you know. I haven't started worrying about
losing my card or anything like that. When I play well, I generally play well over a
length of time. I'll have a bad stretch and then I'll have a good stretch. Hopefully, this
is the beginning of a good stretch.

Q. So this has happened in your career before?

JOHN MAGINNES: Oh, yeah. I think it's happened to all of us in our golf game, hasn't
it, regardless of whether you can shoot 67 or 87 and smile at the end of it. 

Q. Did the limited practice time affect you?

JOHN MAGINNES: No. I played 36 in that rain on Tuesday. (Laughs). I played 36 holes in
New Jersey with it raining side ways and 50 degrees. I had plenty of practice time. And my
game tends to get better the more I play, and I haven't played a whole lot. I think it is
a -- I didn't play New Orleans, I didn't play Memorial, I didn't play Colonial. So I
haven't played a whole lot. Didn't play Atlanta. Didn't play, obviously, the Masters. And
I need to play a lot more golf, and I think Tuesday actually helped me. Although, I didn't
qualify it was 36 holes of competition that I really needed.

Q. Why haven't you been playing? 

JOHN MAGINNES: I didn't get in the invitationals. There are a couple tournaments that
just don't suit my game, and before you know it, you've taken two or three weeks off. And
I've been reading a book that everybody should read, John Wooden's book, Reflections of a
Lifetime on and Off the Court. And last night, I was reading this part of it, he said, you
know, whether you have a Ford or a Cadillac, you have to make it the best possible car out
there running. And it kind of hit me. I said, you know what, maybe I am a Ford running
against a bunch of Cadillacs out there, but all I can do is be the best Ford I can be. I
can't worry about what the Cadillacs are doing. I'm an old '67 Mustang with vinyl seats
and eight-track cassette and eight-track player trying to beat up a bunch of Cadillacs. 

Q. Are you curious to see if you can build on this? 

JOHN MAGINNES: I can't wait until tomorrow. Yeah, I mean, that's the thing about this
stupid game is I know I can. Whether or not I will is another story. But I know I'm
capable of getting it around the golf course. I'd like to have a shot Sunday afternoon,
obviously, but that may or may not happen. It doesn't scare me to think of winning the
golf tournament. I mean, I have an 18-month old to feed for the next 25 years. (Laughs).
And my options are pretty limited as to -- as to what I can do if it doesn't work out. So
I'll just keep working as hard as I can and staying positive. It's a shame the wind is
starting to blow out there, too. I just wanted to add that. (Laughter.)

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT