NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: SAN DIEGO
March 15, 2018
Grant Riller
Joe Chealey
Jarrell Brantley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: For the College of Charleston, Jarrell Brantley, Joe Chealey and Grant Riller.  Questions for the student-athletes?   
 Q.  For Grant and Joe, this is going to be a match-up between guards.  Talk about their three guards and what you've seen from them and the keys that are going to happen?  
GRANT RILLER: I know Harper a little bit from AAU, so kind of been matching up against him in the past.  Bryce Brown I don't know too much about, but I know they're having a good season.  I think it should be fun.   
JOE CHEALEY: Good backcourt.  They can score the ball and play make really well, looking forward to the match-up.  Should be fun.   
 Q.  Clemson is kind of like the popular pick to upset in that 5-12.  You guys are a popular pick to upset Auburn.  Do you take that into mind at all?  Do you have to play the game as normal?  Do you use motivation that people respect and you are picking you as an upset?  
JOE CHEALEY: Try not to pay attention to the noise, what people are saying.  I'm sure a lot of people are pick us to lose.  We try to focus on our preparation and go about it the same way.  We're confident in our game plan and go out and do our best and try not to focus on what everybody else is saying.   
 Q.  The excitement just to be on this stage.  How is it sinking in now that you are part of the tournament you've watched for years on TV, and how do you think you will handle the moment when the lights turn on and you realize you're about to lace it up in the Big Dance?  
JARRELL BRANTLEY: I would say for myself I think this is an amazing experience.  Some people never get to cherish this moment, so I think that's the biggest part of what we're doing, embrace everything we're going through.  We've been through adversity, good times and bad times.  So I think when we get on the court after we get past the first few minutes we will be all right.   
 Q.  Grant then Joe, Coach Grant every year he's been with this program, incrementally better every season.  What is it about him that's allowed you to get better each year?  
GRANT RILLER: Sticking to his system, buying into what he says.  We've a lot of hard-working guys.  We've been together for about three years now, so just the experience.  I think that's about it.   
JOE CHEALEY: Yeah, I think you said what is it about him?  He talked about our work and we get that from Coach.  From day one he stepped in and told us we was going to have to work hard and we could achieve some remarkable things.  That's what he instilled in us from day one.  I think that's what it is about him.   
 Q.  Grant, you said taking his mindset and the things that he's instilling in us.  What exactly is he instilling in you guys?  
GRANT RILLER: Hard work and toughness.  That's with where he came from in the past, so just trying to feed off him.   
 Q.  Jarrell, being from Columbia, what does it mean for you watching the game last year, your home town team going into the tournament and now you get to do the same thing.  Is there pride in that, now it's your time to represent for the Midlands as well on the big stage?  
JARRELL BRANTLEY: A little bit.  I haven't been carried away with that mindset, but it has been fun to put on away from home, but I think of Charleston as my home and my teammates.  So I think this is more fun.   
 Q.  This is going to be a game where Auburn likes to press.  They like to turn the ball over and you guys are a team that doesn't turn the ball over very much.  Talk about how important that's going to be tomorrow?  
JOE CHEALEY: It will be the battle of styles, who can impose their will on the game.  We know they like to play fast and try to pick up the tempo.  We try to take care of the ball.  I think we got talented guys, older guys, and we're confident that we will be able to do that.  It will be fun.   
GRANT RILLER: Same thing as Joe said, really.   
 Q.  Grant and Joe, you guys both had serious injuries during your career.  Jarrell, you could have earlier in the year but you came back.  How good does it feel that you're all clicking, healthy, ready to go?  Is this kind of been what you've waited for in the pinnacle of where everything should be?  
GRANT RILLER: Definitely for myself my injuries in the past, try not to think about it too much, but just being here and everybody being healthy, this is what we lived for and worked for.  So we'll be ready.   
JOE CHEALEY: What it's taught me is to enjoy the moment.  It can be taken from you in a second, so I don't take any of this for granted.  I know the guys don't.  We're happy to be here and we're ready to compete.  I'm happy.   
 Q.  Jarrell, as much as the guards are going to be a focus in the game, Auburn has the most success when they're role players are contributing.  You're going to face off against a couple of those guys.  How important do you feel your match-up is against Desean Murray and Chuma Okeke and Horace Spencer to keep them from scoring double figures?  
JARRELL BRANTLEY: I think I will attack it, like I attack every other game, follow the scout, follow the game plan and stick to my standards like what Coach gives us and stick to my standards.  I think I'll be all right.   
 Q.  Jarrell, I believe you went to Ridgeview correct?  
JARRELL BRANTLEY: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Your former team won the state Championship has anybody reached out to you, knowing they made a deep run, you won your conference tournament and now you have a chance also?  
JARRELL BRANTLEY: I keep up with a few of the guys there and a few of the coaches.  A lot of guys got away, but for the most part, I don't talk too much to them.  But it has been fun to watch them win and hopefully I can continue to win, too.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, gentlemen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT