GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 26, 2007
Daryl Fathauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DARYL FATHAUER:  It's fun, lot of fun.  It's been a lot of fun the last couple of days.  My brother and I both are just lucky to have this. 
 I think I made the most of it.  (Indiscernible) got some information from them, help from them.  It was fun.  Too bad it didn't go a little bit better, but hopefully there will be more experiences like this. 

 Q.  What was the best part of the week? 
 DARYL FATHAUER:  Just having all our friends and family out here.  Getting to hang out with them or not hang out with them, but just having them out there cheering for us.  Hit a few good shots for them.  The volunteers and fans.  A lot of our friends are volunteers out here.  We see them on the range.  They're out here helping us out. 

 Q.  After an experience like this, how do you go back to a normal collegiate golf tournament, I guess, next week? 
 DARYL FATHAUER:  Well, the fairways won't be as tight.  And hopefully the greens won't be as quick.  So hopefully it will be a little bit easier. 
 Now that we know what this is like, I mean, I asked Johnson and Jarrod how they got out here, and they gave me advice on what they did and how they did it.  Hopefully this last year of college golf, and hopefully, we'll be out here again. 

 Q.  Did you get wind at all about what your brother was doing out there? 
 DARYL FATHAUER:  I know he shot 1 under in the first round.  I don't know how he's doing. 

 Q.  He was 1 under on 17 and then went into the water.  He would have made the cut if he hadn't double bogeyed 17.  He played very well.  Just your thoughts on him just barely missing the cut? 
 DARYL FATHAUER:  What did he end up with? 

 Q.  He ended up plus 1.  But if he had parred 17 he would have been in? 
 DARYL FATHAUER:  Wow, that's rough.  Him playing pretty good and for that to happen, I don't know what to say.  I don't know what he has to say.  I'm sure he's pretty upset. 

 Q.  He told me he was nervous.  His quote was I choked.  It's pretty harsh, but did you find yourself being nervous out there? 
 DARYL FATHAUER:  A little bit.  But after, it was mostly just yesterday.  I mean, it calmed down a little bit today.  It wasn't too bad. 

  Hit it pretty good today, couple of bad holes, but didn't make the cut.  Just do what you're trying to do.  Get out there and the last couple of holes I didn't do T for the most part did what I was trying to do today.  Didn't hit it as close as I would have liked to, and also didn't make the cut. 

 Q.  How does this experience help you or your collegiate tournament? 
 DARYL FATHAUER:  We went into this playing it just like a normal event.  Hopefully, it will help us.  Maybe get out here and play with these guys some day and see what it takes. 
 Just asked questions of Jarrod and Johnson.  They said they had decent -- Johnson had a decent college career.  He works hard.  You know, hard work and if you can get it good, you can workout here. 

 Q.  You said they gave you some advice and that sort of thing.  What was that.  If you were to pick one or two most memorable pieces of advice, what do you think you would take with you specifically from playing with those guys? 
 DARYL FATHAUER:  Definitely don't get down on myself even though I'm not playing so well.  They said just hang in there.  It's just a sponsor exemption.  And they gave it to us to see -- gave us a taste of what it's like.  We're very thankful for that.  Just don't give up and just hang in there. 
 Couple bad rounds and you come back in there.  Get it going next week at our college event, and finish out our college careers well and see what happens after that. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT