SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA VS ALABAMA
December 14, 2020
Kyle Pitts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for joining us today.  This is Ben Beaty from the SEC.
We'll begin today's call with Eastern Division champion Florida, and we will start with Kyle Pitts.
Kyle, please take a moment to give us your general thoughts on the upcoming game.
KYLE PITTS:   My thoughts for this game is obviously anybody in the SEC, this is the dream goal, one of the things that people write on the board at the beginning of the season.
It's very important to any coach, player, anybody who likes the SEC, the SEC championship.  So to have the opportunity to be able to play in this is an exciting moment.
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions.
Q. How difficult was Saturday night for you, being basically unable to help your team?
KYLE PITTS:   It's always difficult being on the sideline without my pads on.  I wouldn't say as difficult, but not being able to play and compete, but happy for my brothers are in the game.  Showing they can step up at any time.  Being able to have the versatility with everybody else that can fill that void, make it seem like nothing's wrong.  That's pretty good about this team.
Q. What are the challenges with Alabama?  What is this offense going to have to do for you guys to pull out this game?
KYLE PITTS:   I think this offense will just go out and play our game.  Nothing too special.  I think execute on defense I think.
Q. How are you feeling?  How is your health?
KYLE PITTS:   I'm doing pretty well.
Q. When did you realize that you weren't going to be able to go on Saturday against LSU?
KYLE PITTS:   Like Coach Mullen said, it was kind of a game time decision.  The medical professionals made that call.  I trust them.  We all trust them.  I went along with their decision.
Q. Did you try to lobby to play?
KYLE PITTS:   Yes.  I was planning to play up till then.  Then they told me it was best that I don't.  I went along with the decision.
Q. How close were you in the recruiting process with Alabama?  Were you considering going there at any point?
KYLE PITTS:   I feel like I'm not a country boy.  I mean, I got an offer from Alabama, but that was something I didn't really consider.
It's a great school.
Q. When you say you were lobbying to play right up until game time, who do you lobby, what do you say?  Was there any more lobbying at halftime?
KYLE PITTS:   It was just between me, Coach Mullen, and the training staff.  But they kind of knew.  They know what's best for me, what's best for my future.
I don't think you can come out at halftime and suit up.  I just had to deal with it.  It's not something I kind of beat myself up about.  I trust their judgment.
Q. How nice is it to see somebody taking your NFL future under consideration when they're making those decisions?
KYLE PITTS:   That was a big part I had to realize, they're looking out for the future, not just this one game.  Although we do have more games to play, I have more football to play after I leave the university.  Like I said, I trusted their judgment.  They knew what was best for me.
Q. How do you feel like you and your teammates are going to handle this week coming off that loss?  Everybody looking at Alabama as the favorite, counting you guys out.  Y'all haven't been underdogs all season.  Will that put a chip on your shoulder, will you ignore it?
KYLE PITTS:   We're putting last week's game behind us, just worrying about what we have in front of us.  It's always no one expects Florida to win.  Not discrediting Alabama.  They're a great team.  We're also a great team.  We just have to go out and show the world we can beat them.
Q. Your reaction to what happened with Marco Wilson.  A lot of people were frustrated in the moment, maybe you or some of your teammates.  Have you talked to him, get him through these last couple days?
KYLE PITTS:   I guess I actually kind of missed what happened because I didn't see him throw the shoe.  I feel like he was just hyped up.  He was excited.
I mean, like I said, that was last week.  Everyone has been supporting him, knowing it's all right.  That doesn't define your whole career.  Us just uplifting his spirits, despite what the media says and all the fans say.  We know how Marco is as a person.  To uplift him is what he needed.
Q. What did that tweet mean, you tweeted the other night?
KYLE PITTS:   Just losing.  Nothing to say.
Q. It created quite a buzz.  Were you surprised?
KYLE PITTS:   No.  I kind of figured that, because that's what's fans and media are supposed to do.  Sometimes they take things out of proportion or jump to certain statements.  There was nothing behind it.
Q. Do you feel like you're going to be at 100%?
KYLE PITTS:   Yes, ma'am.  That's the plan.
Q. When you're going in as 17-point underdogs, does that change y'all's mindset in practice?  Do you acknowledge that or just ignore it?
KYLE PITTS:   I would say we ignore it because that's what people's jobs is, to make predictions like that.  It's only predictions.  We have to go out and win Saturday, play the game that we play.
Q. I know you only spent one year with C'yontai Lewis.  He used to make it such a big deal in the off season about getting back to the SEC championship.  How much did he talk about that your freshman year?  Did that make an impact on you?
KYLE PITTS:   It did because C'yontai was a great leader.  He always made it a point, for that season, that's like one of the best moments and best places and experiences you can be a part of.  Us having an opportunity to win it this year, compete for an SEC championship, it's a great feeling.
We all know what's at stake.  Just go out and compete, play the game that we can play.
THE MODERATOR:   Kyle, looks like that's all the questions for you today.  Thank you.
KYLE PITTS:   All right.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT