WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 8, 2009
David Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How does it feel regardless of what happens Wednesday, you are going to Miami?  
 DAVID WRIGHT: It's good. You know, we've accomplished the first goal. You know, I thought that, you know, coming out and playing as well as we have the last two days, you know, we got a full head of steam moving forward. We got two off days to kind of, you know, relax a little bit. We got to maintain that intensity, maintain that focus we've had the last two days.  
  
  Q. David, how do you approach the next game, Wednesday?  
 DAVID WRIGHT: Well, I mean, it's such a game of momentum. You know, these kind of double elimination tournament formats, we have to go in there and stay focused. And, you know, really get our work in. You know, we can't relax and take a day off because it's tough to turn that switch on and off like that. So we got to go in with that same intensity and that same approach we've had the last two days.  
  
  Q. You guys, did you kind of have a great couple days, because you have good chemistry, or do you have good chemistry because you've had a good couple days?  
 DAVID WRIGHT: We've clicked the first workout that we had. We're having fun. We're all getting to the field early, I mean, it's something special to be part of. When you put this kind of talent and the type of guys that are in there, you know, very unselfish, and, you know, just awesome group of guys to be around.  
  
  Q. Has it exceeded your expectations in terms of the results with what the offense was able to do tonight?  
 DAVID WRIGHT: Tonight, yeah. I mean, you don't expect to go up there and just put together good at-bat after good at-bat like we did. We just kept the line moving. You can't ever expect to go out there and put up those kind of offensive numbers.  
  
  Q. Obviously, it's still a ways to go, but are you sold on this experience already as a player?  
 DAVID WRIGHT: I love it. I love it. It's a tremendous, not only baseball experience, but just a personal experience. I mean, to be able to, like I said, be around this group of guys and have the kind of fun that we're having, I mean, on the field, in the clubhouse, it's just a blast to be part of this.  
  
  Q. How hard is it to play emotional games at this state of the year?   
 DAVID WRIGHT: Well, I mean, it's not tough. Especially last night, you take the field in front of, you know, 42, 44,000 people, you know, that doesn't take much at all to get up for it. But I think the biggest thing is going up there and staying strong for nine innings. At this time, you are used to playing five, six innings, and to go up there and stay sharp for nine innings, you know, I think is the biggest challenge.   
 But we're finding a way to do it, and, you know, guys really are going up there and playing very unselfishly.  
  
  Q. What's it been like, as still a young guy, to play with guys like Chipper and Derek in this tournament?  
 DAVID WRIGHT: It's great. As a young player, you're always still trying to learn, but especially being a young player and being around some of the game's best, The guys that have experienced, you know, World Series and just all-star game after all-star game. And, you know, as a young guy, to be around that, you try to soak it in and try to learn from those guys, you know, on the field and how they carry themselves, how they prepare.   
 I'm getting a lot out of learning how these superstars prepare, you know, talking about a pitcher, talking about their approach, what they look for, you know. I think that's where I am kind of getting the most out of what I am going to bring back to my game, is watching these guys prepare and just the way they go about their business, their work ethic.  
  
  Q. (No microphone).   
 DAVID WRIGHT: You wonder about it, but it's been pretty incredible the way that, you know, we've gelled and the kind of chemistry that we have.  
  
  Q. Who is responsible for that?  
 DAVID WRIGHT: I think it's everybody. You got a bunch of great personalities. You got guys that are going out there and really taking it seriously to represent their country and, you know, not want to let each other down. I think that's when you get kind of the results that we've gotten so far, is when you go out there and play for one another and not necessarily yourself.  
  
  Q. Are you prepared for the possibility that you may have to play a lot more if Chipper's out?  
 DAVID WRIGHT: I'm ready, plus we got Mark, and we got Youk that can come over. But Davey told me going into this, Be ready to play nine and be ready to play a lot. You know, I feel like I'm ready.   
 You know, it's not necessarily a question of, you know, being ready, because I feel like I got my legs underneath me, and I feel like I can do it if need be.  
  
  Q. What kind of stuff have you guys done?  
 DAVID WRIGHT: Just a lot of stuff. We had a couple of big dinners. A lot of guys get here early, we just pull up chairs and play cards and watch some of the other games. The stuff that normal teams do, but we got big tables when we go out and eat dinner, and pretty much every guy gets there early and just wants to hang out. That's something special.  
  
  Q. Did you think it could be that way even at any stage?  
 DAVID WRIGHT: Well, I knew most of the guys kind of coming into this. But I didn't know that it would gel so quickly, and really, you know, kind of be so close-knit as fast as we've become.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT