NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2006
Adam Morrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 ADAM MORRISON:  It's great.  I mean, he's the greatest of all time.  You know, I'm just happy to finally get picked.  It's been a long process, but I'm happy where I'm at and looking forward to starting. 

 Q.  How much of a feel did you have that they were going to take you? 
 ADAM MORRISON:  You know what, I had kind of a good feeling.  The first workout was real solid.  You know, the talks with my agent, they said they really liked me and so I was just making sure I stayed positive, and it was good.  You know, I didn't really have a feel.  I was just waiting until Mr. Stern said the final deal. 

 Q.  I heard your agent saying you were very nervous, one of the most nervous on draft night that he had seen.  What was going through your mind and how nervous were you? 
 ADAM MORRISON:  Obviously this is, you know, a big deal in my life, and all of these players' lives.  This is something we've been working on since you started dreaming about basketball.  I was very nervous, but I feel like this is a perfect fit for me. 
 You know, Charlotte is a good basketball team, so I'm excited to get there. 

 Q.  Obviously you had no control over where you were going to be working next year.  How much do you know about the City of Charlotte?  I mean, are you familiar at all with the town, what it has to offer? 
 ADAM MORRISON:  When I went to the workout, you know, one thing I did notice is there was no traffic and it was quiet and I love it.  So that's one thing I'm very in tune with; I'm very small town-ish I guess you could say.  I like all of the practice facilities and stuff.  It wasn't my choice, just show me where the gym is at, and that's all I need to know. 

 Q.  Are you disappointed that you didn't end up going No. 1?  Obviously you're happy to be in Charlotte, but do you mind where you got picked? 
 ADAM MORRISON:  No.  I feel, like I said earlier, I feel like this is a really good fit for me.  So the number really doesn't matter.  I feel like I can help Charlotte, and I just want to be part of a winning organization.  They are on their way to doing that, and so, you know, I'm just excited.  The number wasn't a big deal to me. 

 Q.  Did you think you might end up in Toronto? 
 ADAM MORRISON:  Maybe for a second, but when I heard they were going big, there goes my chances.  But that's fine, teams are picking what they need.  It's a business now, so it's good. 

 Q.  Would you anticipate that maybe you would get some hands-on instruction from Michael Jordan and is that something you would love? 
 ADAM MORRISON:  Yeah, it would be awesome if I could get some hands-on instruction from Mike.  Any time the greatest player of all time is telling you what to do, if he told me how to tie my shoes a certain way, I would probably listen, or I would listen.  So whatever he's got to say, I'm going to definitely welcome it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT