SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 2004
Mark James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  How tough was it out there today?
MARK JAMES:   Putted very well, good score in those conditions.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  How harder was it today than yesterday?
MARK JAMES:   Much harder.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Any club differences?
MARK JAMES:  I can't remember what I hit.  It was a heck of a lot stronger, the wind.  It was a big difference.  I played a 6 iron yesterday on about the sixth par 3.  Hit 3 iron today.  The pin was about 15 yards further back.  It was about a club and a half longer.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  You started with a bogey, what happened there?
MARK JAMES:   Wedge to 35 feet and 3 putt.

4, 3 wood, 8 iron, 40 feet, one putt.

9, drive, 2 iron into the clag on the right, chopped it out, came up to the front, ten feet and missed.

10, drive, 2 iron, pitch to eight feet, one putt.

13, 4 iron, 8 iron, six feet, one putt.
Q.  Inaudible?
MARK JAMES:   I could have played better.  Still hit a few poor shots.  I was a bit better than yesterday.  It's sort of course that makes you hit bat shots, that's the trouble.
Q.  Inaudible?
MARK JAMES:   No, just pop up occasionally with almost anything.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK JAMES:   Yeah, putted out, really.  I was in it a couple of times.  It's quite thick anyway.  It's thick stuff, anyway.  It's not easy.

You tend to not really hit low shots over there.  But playing on the main tour the last few years, you can go several months without having to chase and then you hit a links course it's dip.  We play a few links courses on the main tour.  It's not the fact that we play in America.  It's the fact that we play very few links courses.
Q.  Do you enjoy that type of shot?
MARK JAMES:   Yeah, it makes a change, you have to move the ball both ways quite often and hit it low and try and stop it.  It's a challenge and you're always grinding a bit if it's windy.  It's different.   Rather play that every week of the year than in a straight jacket.
Q.  Would you like to see more tournaments in Europe or playing links courses?
MARK JAMES:   I think on the main tour it would be a good thing for our guys to play an extra tournament on links.  We've said that over past few years, if it's possible to get one moved to the week before the Open to Carnoustie a couple of years, and it's really good practice for the guys to play links courses.  Yeah, it would be good for our players because it's no doubt some of the younger players may be could do with more links golf.  I think it would give us a better chance in the Open.
Q.  Were the greens trickier
MARK JAMES:   Right at the end of the fairways.  Well, I don't know.  They seemed fine to me.  Just have to go out and have a look.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK JAMES:   Well, yeah, if it's that sort of thing, that would be great, yeah.  I think it would be good for the players.  It definitely takes a number of rounds to really get used to it.  Shots you hit in practice rounds sometimes you can't hit in the tournament.  I definitely saw last week some players hitting the wrong shots out on the course, for links golf.
Q.  Care to name a few?
MARK JAMES:   No.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK JAMES:   No.  Just see guys trying to hit the wrong shot, trying to launch it up when maybe if you just did something different.  I think just have an extra week.
Q.  Inaudible?
MARK JAMES:   A good chat?  Well, yeah, absolutely.  Definitely, good shot.  Seriously, it is, I was playing with him.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT