FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2004
Mark James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE SENKO: Mark, thanks for joining us again.  Another strong round today.  You're 14 under going into tomorrow.  Maybe just a quick synopsis to your day and then we'll get to some questions.
MARK JAMES:   Yeah, it started off, missing the first two greens only just off the back of the first and 2 putted.  And the second, I made a good up and down from the back trap after a pretty good second from the hazard left.  So that was a good start to make two pars, really.

And then I settled down and hit some good shots and started to make a couple of putts and I played very solidly after that.
DAVE SENKO:  You started at No. 4 with a birdie.
MARK JAMES:   Yeah I hit 6 iron to about 20 feet.  Dana had putted for par just before me from just outside the same line, so he gave me a perfect line.

Then the next, 5, I hit 3 wood, 9 iron to about ten feet made that for birdie.

10, I hit 3 wood, sand wedge to three feet.

12, I hit 8 iron to eight feet.

14, I hit 3 wood, 8 iron to about three or four inches.  So it was relatively easy.  I struck the ball well on the back nine.  I was pleased with the way I hit the ball the back nine.
DAVE SENKO:  Any other saves?
MARK JAMES:   I hit it just over 16, good shot with a 9 iron and chipped it back to about five feet and made that for par.  That was all.
Q.  What's going through your mind on 17 where you lay up, tied for the lead and five minutes later, you know, you've got a three shot lead after what happened to Dana?  How did that change your approach to what's going on?
MARK JAMES:   It didn't really change my approach.  I sort of have pretty much got a game plan for the course, keep it out of trouble on the fairways and keep it away from the water.  I decided to lay up there every day and just play for par.  It didn't affect my game plan.
Q.  Three shot lead, just curious as to how you approach tomorrow, whether you go in there being a little more cautious or if you're still trying to be aggressive?
MARK JAMES:   It will be exactly the same.  The greens are too hard to really be too aggressive.  You have to balance getting it near the pin with not adding a long putt, which is very difficult on this course, the long putts are fiendish.  It will be pretty much exactly the same game plan.

The fact that I'm leading doesn't make any difference.  I know I'm going to have to  get to 17 to win.  Someone from the back of the pack will shot 66, 67, so I think 17 may be the number.
Q.  How long did you have for your second shot at 17 and how far did you lay up to?
MARK JAMES:   I don't know how far I had to the green.  I hit 3 wood off the tee, just to lay up way short of the water, if I busted a driver and get it in the water.  I just hit 3 wood, 4 iron and sand wedge.
Q.  How far did you leave yourself?
MARK JAMES:   100 yards.
Q.  Do you try to ignore watching what happened to Dana and just concentrate on your shot?
MARK JAMES:   No, I mean, I always watch my playing partners.  It's sickening to watch.  You know once you've done it once, you've got to have another go and keep going.  And it was a makeable shot for him, that's the trouble, a 7 wood.  I certainly would not say it was the wrong shot.  It's just a tough shot and it's just one of those things.
Q.  Have you felt like you've gained some momentum since you came back on TOUR after the knee surgery?
MARK JAMES:   I only played one event before the knee surgery.  Fortunately came back pretty quick and got off to a reasonable couple of starts after my first couple events, I finished 13th and 7th.  I didn't feel that I was lagging too far behind.  Just tried to play solid since then.  And I didn't putt very well, but my stroke is getting better now and I've had a couple of good finishes.  I feel overall I'm gaining momentum, but whether or not I can win is a different matter.
Q.  Is it difficult playing all new courses in new places and things like that or is that part of the adjustment?
MARK JAMES:   No.  The courses are an a problem.  In Europe we would turn up at a venue we've never played, playing one practice round with a yardage book and knowing the course immediately.  So that's not a problem getting to know the courses.

I've been trying to play conservative just in case there's obvious things I shouldn't do.  So it's not been a problem getting to know the courses.
Q.  You've had a lot of success on the European Tour and been on the Ryder Cup several times, what would it mean in your rookie year on this tour to win a major championship your first year out?
MARK JAMES:   It would be fantastic.  It would be brilliant.  I would be over the moon.   Just to come over and keep my card would be great, finish Top 30, that would be a bonus.  I think all of us who play seniors golf, I think it's great that we can play when we're 50 and make a living.  It's amazing.  So to do really well and keep my card and win majors, that would be even better.  Whatever comes along, I'll take it.  I'm glad to be here, really.
Q.  This tournament, do you have a different feel of atmosphere from the regular events; does it feel like a major?
MARK JAMES:   Oh, yeah, the course, although the scoring is low, there's an awful lot of trouble around and it feels a little more claustrophobic at times.

You know, the Champions Tour is very well supported every week.  And, you know, yes, this does feel it's four rounds, no bogeys, it's a top class course, it feels like a major.  But that's not to say that the regular events don't feel like really good events; they do.  There's been some regular events that have been on some really good courses.
Q.  You talked about not being involved in the Ryder Cup for 15 years, did you want to be a part of it in some way or play any role, did you ask or did they not ask you?
MARK JAMES:   I assisted Seve in  '97 and I was captain in '99 and I assisted Sam last time.  I'm not on the regular tour anymore, so I think it's right for guys like Sam and myself to step aside.  It's time for new people to get involved, definitely.
Q.  It wasn't anything     no drama there?
MARK JAMES:   No, there isn't anything.  (Laughing.)
Q.  Yesterday you referred to 15 years, so just following up .
MARK JAMES:   No, that wasn't the     no, don't read anything into that.  That's just how it is.  I was actually asked by BBC to commentate but I couldn't, I've got a couple of company days already that week.  I'll probably go over to The K Club in '06 and do TV or something.
Q.  How do you feel about the Ryder Cup now, the direction it's gone after last year, a few years ago, how do you feel the atmosphere is surrounding it now?
MARK JAMES:   There's very little crowd problems.  I think always the danger at times and in the future for the Ryder Cup is if the home teams start to lose, then I think the home crowd will get disgruntled.  That didn't happen at The Belfry; did happen at Brookline.  I think that's danger time for future Ryder Cups.  I think something that needs to be     the marshals and reception need to keep a check on the crowd behavior at times like that.
Q.  You mentioned your putting coming into form a bit, have you used the same putter for a while or is that a change?
MARK JAMES:   I got a new putter a few weeks ago, Crazy     didn't go too well the first week.  Wanted to cross the "Z" out and put a "P."  It's been good since.  I putted great last week to, finish 19th.  So it's been funny this week, it's got a longer line if the back that's easy to line up.  I feel more comfortable with it.
DAVE SENKO:  Thank you, Mark.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT