FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2004
Mark James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE SENKO:  Mark, congratulations on another 5 under today to go with 4 under yesterday.  You're 9 under, maybe just get us started, just talk about your day, different conditions than yesterday.
MARK JAMES:   Yeah, it was a lot easier today.  Yesterday was a really tough afternoon.  Today I started playing very well and kept going right through really.  Very few bad shots, if any bad shots.  Poor shot on 6, but got away with it.  I only missed one green again, so it was relatively easy.
DAVE SENKO:  Start with the birdie at No.  2.
MARK JAMES:   Yeah, driver, sand wedge, six feet, one putt.

The 7th, I hit driver, 7 iron, sand wedge, 6 foot putt.

Next I hit 9 iron, 7 foot putt.

8, driver, sand wedge, ten feet.

12, I hit a good shot just over, chipped to about eight feet and missed it.  Dropped one there.

13, I hit driver, 5 wood just off the right and chipped to five feet and holed out.

16, 3 wood, 9 iron about 15 feet and holed that.
DAVE SENKO:  What's been the biggest, not obstacle, but the first year, not knowing all the courses, first time you've played here obviously but on the Champions Tour this year.
MARK JAMES:   I think not knowing the courses is a problem I've always had.  In Europe I've gone to places for just one practice round in the yardage book and that's usually sufficient.  I don't think that's been a problem here at all.  I've played reasonably solidly all year.  I think it's just a question of upping my performance.  Maybe holing a few putts, a bit more greens this week, and maybe slightly better.

I've been close all year.  I've only been out of the top 20 once.  It's been close.
Q.  You birdied the first four holes yesterday and had a rough finish, and what did you do after your round yesterday to get prepared for today?
MARK JAMES:   Nothing.  I went home.

Yesterday I played solidly all the way through.  I holed putts the first four holes and then my putter went really sour the rest of the round.  It was just crazy the way the putts went.  I missed a load of putts in the middle yesterday and played real solid.

Today a few putts were just spread through the round.  I stroked the ball better overall today.  It's just both rounds were solid.  Both rounds I missed one fairway and missed one green.  I haven't been hitting that many greens, so played a little better this week, more consistent.
Q.  You said it was a lot easier; what made the course or the conditions easier?  What was the difference today initially?
MARK JAMES:   Well, the course isn't that long.  It's 7,000, but it's probably playing ineffectively 6,800, which these days is not that long.  That helps.  You can hit a lot of 3 woods and there's not that many holes where you're hitting long irons in.  So distances, it's a relatively short course the way it's playing.
Q.  Being close on the calendar and geographically to the Ryder Cup up the street, does it bring back any more memories this week at all, or does it cross your mind that much that Oakland Hills is just up the street and they are only a couple of months away from having the Ryder Cup?
MARK JAMES:   Not really.  This year I have no involvement for the first time in probably about 15 years.

No, didn't cross my mind at all.  I'll be going home Ryder Cup week and watching it on the television.
Q.  I think yesterday on the Golf Channel they were asking you why you look grumpy when you were playing sometimes; is that something that you're aware of or that you notice?
MARK JAMES:   No, there's a good reason for that.  I am grumpy.  (Laughter.)

No, it's just the way I look.  Yeah, sometimes I'm a bit like that, but, you know, I wouldn't say it's a regular bit.  I snap out of it in a couple of seconds.  Yeah, I show my emotions a bit out there and I'm concentrating hard.  Yeah, I look like that sometimes.  It would be boring if everyone looked the same, wouldn't it?


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT