VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2001
Mark James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK JAMES:   It is a long time, seven months, but more the prospect of thinking in the back of your minds, you might never play the Tour again.  That would have been  -- sounds a bit depressing, that, but it does cross your mind.  I wouldn't have liked that.  It's fantastic to be back.  Great to be playing and great to see everyone.

MARK JAMES:   I couldn't really put it in one.  These things happen to you in all walks of life.  I think I've been lucky, really.  Everyone gets their  -- but I've come through it, I think I've been lucky, and so, you know, it's not  -- in no way is it depressing or there's no feeling of having bad luck or negative like that.  These things happen, and happen to people you know, close to you, and you hope to come through it.  So far, I've been lucky. 

MARK JAMES:   Yeah, in good shape.  I've been working out for five weeks.  Hitting balls for about a month.  Squeezed a couple weeks of skiing before the end of the season.  I had to put bandages around my stomach.  So, yeah I'm in good shape.

Q.  Are you as strong, Mark, as you were?  Stronger? 

MARK JAMES:   Physically? 

Q.  Yeah. 

MARK JAMES:   Probably the same.  Doesn't seem to have been too debilitating.  You can't be certain, but my stamina seems reasonable and the only real experience I have with that is at The Belfry, a couple of weeks ago.  I was in the gym the morning of the third day and then walked around the following, and then hit ball in the evening afterwards and there was no real tiredness or anything.  Probably in better shape than I was before, because obviously I've been ill for quite some time.

Q.  How many rounds have you played, practice rounds? 

MARK JAMES:   Two. 

Q.  And the first was when? 

MARK JAMES:   First was about three weeks ago.  I went and played against Gordon Brand's 13-year-old daughter?  Took me seven holes to make a par, by which time she had an unassailable lead on her road to victory.  (Laughter.)

Q.  When you were diagnosed, what did the doctor say and did they give you much chance? 

MARK JAMES:   Initially, well, the odds changed sort of from the start of  -- the start when we were not sure of the diagnosis over what type of cancer it was or whether or not, in fact, it may have been a secondary tumour that was discovered.  The big one might have been spawned from another tumour or organ or something and I think the odds were 60, 65 percent.  But once we knew what type of cancer it was and the odds were turned to 90 percent. 

Q.  Did anybody say, by the way Mark, this could be a life or death situation? 

MARK JAMES:   I don't think they needed to tell me that.  I mean, I'm not making light of it, but you know you're ill, and I was  -- you know, in a way, it's nice to hear that the odds are in your favour.

Q.  How many tournaments did you play knowing that you were badly ill? 

MARK JAMES:   My first symptoms were  -- I got back from  -- went to Spain on holiday in August and my first one was back in the Scottish PGA and I was in the physio  van about three times and trying to get him to crack every muscle in my back because I had a backache and that was the start of it and it progressed after that.  By the time of the German Masters I was sitting down between every shot.  I could not stand and wait for the green.  So, I had to sit down.  It obviously wasn't right. 

Q.  You had not been to the hospital or anything at that point? 

MARK JAMES:   I was seeing doctors.  No, I was due in the Monday after the German Masters for an ultrasound and that's when everything came to light.

Q.  Can you tell us what the lowest and what was the most when sort of  -- when the real encouragement kicked in?

MARK JAMES:   I think the lowest time was probably after I had to have a full laparotomy to get a proper biopsy, CT biopsy through my back, and that didn't gather enough material, and so I had a full laparotomy for a biopsy and waiting for the results.

Q.  Can you explain what that is, translate? 

MARK JAMES:   They sort of slice you from the breastbone down to just below your belly button. 

Q.  What was the moment when you really  --

MARK JAMES:   I reacted extremely badly to the first operation.  Didn't sleep for 48 hours afterwards.  You know, sort of waiting for the results of that biopsy was  -- the low ebb, basically.  I wasn't particularly depressed or anything, but that was the low ebb.  I was at fairly low ebb.

Q.  What was the moment when you thought you could beat this thing?

MARK JAMES:   Pretty soon after that, you start to recover from the operation, we had the results of the biopsy, we knew it was a treatable type of cancer.  What was inside me was the primary cancer effectively, it had been spawned from something that was no longer there, and may, in fact, have been  -- probably was minute.  So, I saw the consultant on my way out of the hospital after that first operation, you know, he said, "Well, this is what it is.  This is what the treatment is, and you've got a 90 percent chance."    And then, really, everything looks more optimistic.

Q.  Do you believe in God?  Did you pray to him? 

MARK JAMES:   I'm  -- actually I can't remember whether I'm atheist or agnostic.  I can't remember the difference.  I think battling anything, you need a certain amount of faith, but not necessarily in the Lord. 

Q.  Was there ongoing treatment?  Was there things that you have to do or things that you have to take now or is it all finished? 

MARK JAMES:   No. 

Q.  You can lead like a normal life and eat the same? 

MARK JAMES:   Absolutely.  I'm behaving as before pretty much.

Q.  Oh, no. 

MARK JAMES:   (Laughs).

Q.  Full schedule now?

MARK JAMES:   I'm playing what I would have played if I had started in February, but I'm not going to catch up from this tournament so I'm going to play probably 14 between now and the end of the season.

Q.  Did you speak to anybody else concerning the cancer? 

MARK JAMES:   I have spoken since to Olivier Edmond (ph).  I believe that's the name.  That's all, really.  I spoke, you know, once you  -- it's amazing.  Once you get cancer, you hear so many tales, it's quite remarkable.  And I think it's probably not talked about enough in everyday life.  It's something you sort of compartmentalise and try to keep it there  -- you don't really think about it and then whether everybody talks about it, you realise how many it is around and how many it affects people's lives. 

Q.  When something like this happens, when you have friends in the game come through for you, do you find that you've got very good friends?

MARK JAMES:   Well, I knew I've got some very good friends.  But, yeah, a lot of guys rank me up, and all of the cards, it makes a big difference.  Wishing you well, it makes a big difference.

Q.  Will you write a book?

MARK JAMES:   No, I had already written one some years ago.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Did Paul Azinger ring you? 

MARK JAMES:   I don't think I should say whether  -- I mean, if I answer that, and if I say whether one person did or didn't you could move onto someone else and I don't think that's fair on anyone who may not have rung, so I'd rather not go down there.  

Q.  I think he was asking the press for your number originally?

MARK JAMES:   I think it would be unfair on anyone who didn't and thought they should have or whatever.  I won't say anything about that.  It just isn't fair. 

Q.  Any expectations for your career that you would have had if this had not happened?

MARK JAMES:   No, I don't expect to make this Ryder Cup team because I've missed a lot of the tournament.

Q.  Good story if you do?

MARK JAMES:   I think I've been playing too little.  It would be a wonderful story for you, wouldn't it?  You would be buzzing. 

Q.  What are your expectations for this week? 

MARK JAMES:   I expect to miss the cut by two.  (Laughter.)

Q.  You may have anticipated the obvious question earlier, but did Nick Faldo send you a get well card?

MARK JAMES:   Yes, he did. 

Q.  Can you tell us what was it  -- because we know what was on the letter?

MARK JAMES:   I'm not going tell what you was on it. 

Q.  What was your second round like?  Was it better than the first one? 

MARK JAMES:   I did actually play a lot better.  It was the end of last week.  I played against a friend of mine called Lucky.  Unfortunately, he was.  But it was a good game. 

Q.  What was the name of the course? 

MARK JAMES:   Alwoodley. 

Q.  How many did you lose to Gordon Brand's daughter? 

MARK JAMES:   Not many.  I did make one birdie I think I lost  -- I think I lost 2-1.  I was putting a bit of pressure on her but she held.

Q.  What's her name?

MARK JAMES:   Lizzy.  She's a good player.  Plays off 23 and she can fly a 3-iron. 

Q.  How long do you think it would reasonably be expected to take to get back to the level you would like to be?

MARK JAMES:   I may never get to the level I would like to be, but then again, I wasn't at the level I would like to be at before.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Back to the level that you have every reasonable expectation of achieving? 

MARK JAMES:   Well, I never have a reasonable level of expectation.  My level of expectation is always higher than my level of achievement, which is why I'm always depressed.  (Laughter.)

Q.  World No. 1 is out? 

MARK JAMES:   I think it is at the moment for a lot of people. 

Q.  Has it changed you, and if so, how would you describe the way it's changed you?

MARK JAMES:   I don't think it's changed me now.  I think if I'd been a different type of person, maybe more stressed and more uptight and more edgy, it might have had a sort of  -- a sort of fighting-chance effect on me, but unfortunately, I've come out pretty much the same as I went in.

Q.  A lot of people do say, Mark, that when they have faced life-threatening situations that they suddenly  -- golf, in this particular case, becomes much less important, or whatever it is that they have to face?

MARK JAMES:   Yeah, I mean, the minute I was ill, everything pales into insignificance.  I simply wanted to get well from the first operation for the biopsy.  I was over a stone and a half lighter than my normal weight, and just it was a question of feeding me up and getting me better and strong enough to fight and do my bit.  The doctors do their bit and I wanted to do my bit.  In fact, did it so well, I have to start going on a diet in January. 

Q.  When did you set the target of making this your return? 

MARK JAMES:   I think probably three or four weeks after the operation, second operation.  I pretty much knew  -- the first operation, that would have been around the middle of March.  From the first operation, I knew how long roughly it would take me to get over it and felt I would be ready.  In fact, I recovered quite a bit quicker from the second operation, but once I sort of set this as my target, I didn't want to rush back.  I  thought psychologically rushing back might be a foolhardy tactic. 

Q.  Did you not think of going into a slightly less-profile start?  I mean, this is, as you said, for a big event, coming bang into it  --

MARK JAMES:   It's tough to find low-profile events at this time of year.  Not trying be funny, but it is difficult. 

Q.  When you were told you had beaten it, Mark, what did you do?  Did you do the high-fives?

MARK JAMES:   You are not really told you have beaten it.  You go back for scans every three months for a couple of years.  I don't think after you've had cancer you say "I'm cured" or "I'm better."  You say:  "Looking good and fingers crossed and I'll be going back the next few months" or for  -- I don't know how long.  I'll be going back for a scan in July and hope that everything is fine.   There's no high-fiving.  Everything right through, little step after little step, looking better.  It's shrinking, they think it's -- another operation  -- got most of it out, looking better.  It's little steps, not suddenly one day you're better.

Q.  You're not in remission; you're better?

MARK JAMES:   I don't know exactly what these terms mean.  All I know is that for now I'm okay, but these things can reappear, which is why you go back for scans every few months for a couple of years.  So I think to use the term, "Cured" or completely recovered is probably  -- possibly inappropriate. 

Q.  Do you have a feeling that you should try and raise money to donate it to the research or to the hospital or to any other body associated? 

MARK JAMES:   I've already done things  -- there was a fee that went to the Cookridge Cancer Hospital where I was given chemo and another one, as well I did for the Daily Mail and News of the World.

Q.  Which is where? 

MARK JAMES:   Cookridge. 

Q.  Since you arrived here, have there been any other comments from any other players that particularly appeal to your sense of humour? 

MARK JAMES:   God, I can't remember.  It's easily  -- it usually happens every week of the year.  Nothing that sticks in my mind. 

Q.  You told me that Brody had said that you looked like a conehead in a photograph.  Have you seen him? 

MARK JAMES:   I did see him today, but he didn't say anything particularly amusing for him.  Everything he says is usually amusing, but he came up to see us, actually.  I think they came up in January and I had no hair at all.  Even less.  No eyebrows, nothing, no moustache and he kindly  -- he kindly sent me a weak eyebrows and moustache. 

Q.  How was Jane through all this? 

MARK JAMES:   Fantastic.  She was a huge support during all that.  The first few weeks, which is a difficult time, and right the way through, I think incredible support. 

Q.  Are you the sort who has or might sort of well up that you are back to where you thought you might never get back to, playing the European Tour again, the reality of it this week?

MARK JAMES:   I think things go through your mind that you might not live or you might not play golf or you might come back and just lose heart.  That happens to players in their 30s; their heart is not in it.  So, yeah, you have these things, and time will tell what sort of shape I'm in psychologically.  But, yeah, you don't need a serious illness to lose your cutting edge between years. 

Q.  Who tended the vegetables? 

MARK JAMES:   There weren't any winter vegetables to take care of.  I wanted to get my daisies up when I was getting out of my first operation.  Saved them fortunately, just. 

Q.  So do you feel grateful to be alive? 

MARK JAMES:   Sorry, what was the exact wording again? 

Q.  Do you feel grateful, happy to be alive?

MARK JAMES:  Of course, yeah.  Anybody who has had a serious illness is.  But then I was grateful to be alive before. 

Q.  Do you think you'll be grateful to be alive halfway through the players' meeting tomorrow? 

MARK JAMES:   Players' meeting, why? 

Q.  Back down to earth? 

MARK JAMES:   No, I enjoy players' meetings.  It's important, isn't it, the players opinions and attempt to put these to the staff if they are not being put to them.

Q.  Are you acting chairman?

MARK JAMES:   I act as chairman because I am chairman.

Q.  But you haven't been at the meeting? 

MARK JAMES:   I thought it was a tabloid question.  Needed to watch the wording.

Q.  But you are chairman? 

MARK JAMES:   Yes, I am chairman of the tournament committee. 

Q.  Will you chair the meeting tomorrow?

MARK JAMES:   No, it's an AGM.  I'll be sitting in the audience, probably ready to ask you questions about the report which I plowed through. 

Q.  What are you expecting from the media? 

MARK JAMES:   Simply a few cold drinks.  Maybe the odd sandwich.  I don't know.  I have no idea.  I mean, I've read the report.  I don't know if anyone's had any reports on the report.  But I thought it was largely very positive.  I don't know what's going to happen at players' meetings.  I'm sure the players are there to give whoever is running it a grilling.  If I run a players' meeting there, I think it would be a grilling, and I'm always happy to answer questions.  That's how it should be.  There's no cover-up for anything in the tour over anything anyone said.  It can be slow to effect change at times, but there's certainly no cover-up of any black hole or anything like people have been claiming.  Or at least there doesn't appear to be. 

Q.  You're here playing the flagship event of Europe; should Sergio Garcia be here? 

MARK JAMES:   I wouldn't even contemplate commenting on Sergio's schedule.  But thank you for the opportunity.  (Laughter.)

Q.  If you were Ryder Cup captain, would you like him to be here?

MARK JAMES:   I refer that to the honourable gentleman.  I have absolutely no comment on that.  No, that's not my  -- that's not my business at all. 

Q.  Will you still be involved in the Ryder Cup, unofficially?

MARK JAMES:   I'm not sure what exactly I'll be doing that week, but I will be at The Belfry. 

Q.  If you were writing another book, what would the title be next time? 

MARK JAMES:   Well, I thought of writing another book, but, I don't know. 

Q.  Grateful to be alive? 

MARK JAMES:   The tabloid version. 

Q.  What's about brush with the Grim Reaper?

MARK JAMES:   Got a nice ring to it, but probably not.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT