WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 1999
Mark James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 MARK JAMES: Delightful. 
 
 MARK JAMES: I've been playing right for most of the year. I didn't play particularly
well today, I didn't 3-putt and I hit it pretty close on the greens. I struggled through
and made a pretty good save at the last, as well. 
 
 MARK JAMES: I think my average score was about 78. 
 
 MARK JAMES: Yes, definitely overachieved. I'm certainly not overconfident. 
 
Q. Mark, this has been your first time to actually see some of the American Ryder Cup
players, have you spoken to any of them, and if so, could you share some of the
conversations about that?
 
 MARK JAMES: I've spoken to all of them I've bumped into. We haven't discussed the Ryder
Cup. I think everyone said all they want to say. And I think we're leaving it as it is
now. And some of us are probably agreeing to disagree on certain aspects. But I think the
time for discussing what we've done is gone. And we're all trying to get on with playing
golf. 
 
Q. When was the last time you 3-putted?
 
 MARK JAMES: The last time I 3-putted? I didn't 3-putt today. I don't know, I had 37
putts the first two rounds last week, 34 the last round. I've got about 12, 3-putts
probably last week. 
 
Q. You had no 3-putts at all today. This is possibly a course as difficult --
 
 MARK JAMES: Yes, but I only had two long putts, I think. One hit six feet short, one
eight feet past. 
 
Q. Have you change putters at all?
 
 MARK JAMES: Since when? 
 
Q. Since last week?
 
 MARK JAMES: I used 2 or 3 last week. I'm using one today that I finished off last week
with, purely because it's shorter, when I put it in the bag, I can't see it. (Laughter).  
 
Q. During the time we were waiting for you, why is this season proving so good when
you've been doing it so long?
 
 MARK JAMES: Because I'm a slow learner. 
 
Q. I don't think you expected this season?
 
 MARK JAMES: I thought it wouldn't affect me too badly, because I can switch off from
things. And on the course I'm not one to concentrate for four and a half hours, I can lose
my tempo and just switch back in a couple of seconds. I thought I would be able to cope
with it. It was still a nice surprise when I started playing well early on this year. If I
putted a bit better, I really would have had a very good year. From tee-to-green I've been
fairly safe and pretty solid. So it's pleasing, really. 
 
Q. Mark, how important is it with the high winds to get a good underpass, when some
people are really being blown around?
 
 MARK JAMES: It depends on exactly how bad this gets. A sort of day when you shoot 77,
it's hard to come back. This is one course where a good player can come back. I've seen
people shoot 62, which seems more incredible when you come here. You have to be a really
good golfer on this course. 
 
Q. Mark, do you think we're placing unrealistic limits on players with regard to age?
I'm thinking of Randy Floyd, who only relatively recently played Ryder Cup at over 50. You
seem to think rather differently with age?
 
 MARK JAMES: I think it's a question of desire. When you've been doing the same thing
that involves an awful lot of traveling and work for 20, 25 years, it starts to get a bit
wearing. And as you get older you have to -- you lose -- if you're not careful you can
lose your fitness. To play the same number of tournaments now as I did when I was 23, I
have to work out a lot to maintain the level of fitness so I can practice and stay alert
on the course. And that all takes time. And also you get to an age where you have other
things you want to do, other distractions. It does get more difficult. But I think the
fact that a player is of a certain age should not preclude him from playing to a certain
standard. But things do tend to get in the way. 
 
Q. Mark, the American players were very open last week in saying that the Payne Stewart
tragedy brought them closer together and made them realize what a fraternity golf is. Do
you feel that way and do you think the European team is closer now to the American
counterparts as a result of this tragedy?
 
 MARK JAMES: I think they've always thought themselves a fraternity, and we've always
been pretty close. 
 
 MARK JAMES: No, I think it was -- it could have been. 6, just off the right of the
green, chipped up, 2-putts. 8, driver, sand wedge to 6 feet, 1-putt. 9, driver, 5-iron,
short, chipped to 6 feet, two putts. 11, driver, 4-iron, 6-iron, 15 feet, 1-putt. 13,
driver, 5-iron to two feet, 1-putt. 14, 2-iron, 5-iron, 2 feet, 1-putt. 
 
Q. What is your fitness regime, Mark?
 
 MARK JAMES: I start off the day with -- I reach over and press down the alarm. And I
jog to the bathroom. 
 
 MARK JAMES: I don't really have a daily thing. I work out relatively little when I'm on
Tour, and I stopped running a couple of months ago, so I've done very little of it. Early
in the year when we're near beaches or in hotels with good gyms I'll work out. I work out
at home nearly every day, there's no other way. If you want to compete with guys that are
23, you have to be fit, if not fitter, than they are. It's as simple as that.  
 
Q. Do you have fitness equipment in a special room at home, Mark?
 
 MARK JAMES: Not really, no. I go to the gym. If I do it at home, I get fed up after ten
minutes and go to the fridge. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT