NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 25, 2011
Tom Thibodeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What did you tell Derrick going into the next game?
 TOM THIBODEAU: Drive the ball, make the right play. If they collapse, hit the open man. That's what we have to do. I don't want him to change the way he plays. I think the more we can get out in the open floor and attack that way, the better. 
 I thought -- we had 26 fast-break points. So that was a good number for us. We've got to make shots. When you make perimeter shots -- we didn't shoot the three well, and we have to make shots to open up the paint. If we don't, they're going to be in the paint. 
 We just -- for the most part, the first half I liked our offense a lot. The second half it got tougher, and we have to do a better job. 

 Q. The last play of regulation, was that pretty much Derrick's call to go for the jumper, rather than the drive? 
 TOM THIBODEAU: Yeah -- well, we wanted the last shot. That's his shot. He's got his -- you know, like if he sees an opening where he can drive, we want him to drive. But if he wants to pull up, he's made that shot all year for us. So if it goes in, we're all praising him. It doesn't go in, everyone wants to criticize him. 
 One game he's shooting too much. The next game he's not shooting enough. That goes with the territory. The thing I love about him is he's got the courage to take and he's got the ability to make. And so I trust him. There's no one out there I would rather have than him. 

 Q. It's been tough for him in the fourth quarter these last three games. He's been such a great closer for you all year. Why has it been tougher for him the last three late in the games? 
 TOM THIBODEAU: Again, some he's going to make. He's not going to make them all. I just want him to have the courage to take, and he does. He never hesitates. The next time it comes around, I'm confident he'll make. 

 Q. Why do you think you're having success as much as you have had against D-Wade? 
 TOM THIBODEAU: Again, with those guys you have to try to make them work for their points. They're great players, and you're not going to guard them individually. You guard them collectively. But he's a great player. And when he's on the floor, he's doing a lot of other stuff too. He's missed some shots that he normally makes, but we keep a lot of pressure on him at all times. 

 Q. Are you making them work hard enough for their points, do you feel? 
 TOM THIBODEAU: Well, I think they're averaging 91. Everything is hard-fought. I didn't like the fact that -- I thought they got to the line too much in the last game. That's a concern. Our discipline in challenging shots is important. I don't want to recklessly foul and give them points. For the most part, yesterday's game was 85-85 at the end of regulation. We had a shot to win it. That's what you want. 

 Q. Do you chalk it up to star players are going to make tough shots? Whatever you do, they're still going to make them, and that's just the way it goes? 
 TOM THIBODEAU: You've got to try to make it as hard as you can. But they do have the ability to make tough shots. We can guard them well, and sometimes they can still make. But they're a great team. We've got to play better. 

 Q. Do you feel Boozer is back to the consistency and the quality of play? 
 TOM THIBODEAU: Yeah, I really like the way he's playing. I think offensively he's been terrific. He's playing with a lot of confidence, getting the ball in the paint, making plays. He's been rebounding the ball well. I think he's healthy, so I think that's a big part of it. I like his aggressiveness. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 TOM THIBODEAU: We've had a great crowd all year. They give us great support. But we have to play well. That's the most important thing. We have to give them something to cheer about. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 TOM THIBODEAU: I just want him to play to his strengths. Great low post defender, great screener. The pick and pop shot, keeps the ball moving, veteran experience, helps you execute. He brings a lot to the team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT