NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 24, 2011
Tom Thibodeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Tom, can you describe what you were trying to get on the last play of regulation. Were you isolating Derrick? 
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: Yes. A shot. You know, we wanted to get the last shot of the game, give him space to get to the spot, you know, and he missed. 
 But listen, Derrick Rose, I wouldn't want to have any other guy. I'm with that guy all the way. He's a great player, a great competitor, and I have great belief in him. 

 Q. Can you talk about LeBron's game tonight, and how well he played. 
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: Hey, they're a great team. They compete, they play hard, they play great defense, they made some tough shots down the stretch. It was a hard-fought game, and they made plays at the end. 

 Q. Tom, how important was Derrick going to the basket in the first half, dunking so emphatically? Did that have a real lift for your team? 
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: Yeah, he was attacking the basket. I guess he's tried to continue to go that hard. He hasn't been able to get to the line like we thought he would, and we don't want to discourage him from attacking. There's a lot of contact, and he hasn't gotten the calls. 

 Q. Can you just talk about how you tried to turn the team's morale around going home, the challenge you have ahead. 
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: Yeah, well, it's no different than what you do all season long. I think you learn from each game. So hopefully we can take things from this game, study, learn, correct, grow, and get ready for the next one. And we're going step by step. 
 We'll have a great practice tomorrow. A great shoot-around, and be ready for the first quarter. That's how we're thinking. 

 Q. When Omer went down with his injury, you kind of rode Carlos, Joakim and Taj. Can you talk about the decision-making behind that. 
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: We just wanted to -- we thought that group was playing well. We got some scoring from Ronnie, Kyle and Carlos in together. So we wanted to ride that a little bit longer. And I thought they were playing good defense, so we stayed with that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT