NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 22, 2011
Tom Thibodeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Chicago Bulls 85
  Miami Heat 96

 Q. Back when you were in Boston, there was so much emphasis put on KG and Paul and the big three, and Ray was often seen as that third guy. How valuable was it when you were there to have that third guy, and how hard is it to guard that supposed third guy on the other end now with Chris? 
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: Well, I thought Bosh was terrific right from the start of the game. Very aggressive. And I thought we allowed him to get his confidence early. And then he's hard to slow down once he gets going like that. We gave him too much space. We didn't challenge his shot properly. We didn't give the appropriate help. So he had a big night. 

 Q. In Boston how valuable was it to have that --
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: I think it always comes down to your three primary scorers in that you have to try to make it hard on those three. That's the case with every team. Chris Bosh, you know, he's a lot more than a third scorer. The guy has been a terrific player in the league for a long time. He's very skilled. He's got a low post game. He's got a face-up game. Terrific shot fake. And, again, we allowed him to gain his confidence early, and he made it difficult on us. 

 Q. Tom, if you're loading up on LeBron and Dwyane Wade, is Chris Bosh kind of the peril that you have to deal with? 
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: Well, yeah, obviously you have to commit to Wade and James, but that doesn't absolve you from covering the others. You have to have the ability to do both. You have to go in with a multiple-effort mindset. You have to close hard. Whenever you put two on the ball, you have to protect the paint and then get back out. I didn't think we did that. 
 So they got going. The first quarter, you know, was hard-fought, low-scoring, but then after that it was too easy. 

 Q. Sorry if you already answered this: Why do you think they've been able to shoot such a high percentage against your defense? 
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: Well, they're making shots. We have to get up and challenge their shots better. We have to finish our defense. The rebounding was good. Challenging their shots wasn't. 

 Q. It also seems, at least down the stretch, that Derrick is a little more tentative. Are they doing anything against him defensively that is taking him out of his game? 
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: Well, they're a very good defensive team. You have to get stops and get the ball out, try to get in transition, run late, get some easy scoring opportunities. But they're a tough team defensively. 

 Q. You talked about the need to get easier baskets, and you did have 16 fast-break points. Were you pleased with that or did you need to get more? 
 COACH TOM THIBODEAU: Well, the defense concerned me more than the offense. We struggled in the first quarter. But I thought -- we missed some lay-ups, we have to finish better around the rim. Overall, I thought the ball movement was better in the second half. 
 You want to try to get easy scores, but once their defense is set, you have to get them moving. We can't allow the clock to wind down on us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT