TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 13, 2000
Hicham Arazi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIKI SINGH: Questions, please.  
 
Q. You've had some big wins before. Do you consider this one of your top ones?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: Yeah, definitely it's my best win since the beginning of my career. It
was great to beat him after he beat me in Australian Open. It's a good revenge. 
 
Q. Did you do anything different today than did you in Australia?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: No. I did exactly the same, but in Australia he was playing a great
tennis. I couldn't do anything. I played great also. Today he was not playing as good as
in Australia. So that was the difference. He made a lot of double-faults. He made a lot of
forced --. 
 
Q. Unforced errors?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: Unforced errors. So I took my chance. For me, I played good. I serve
well. I had a good percentage of first serves. It was a good match for me. 
 
Q. Did he just seem kind of unfocused out there? 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: I was not thinking too much about him. I was thinking more about myself,
you know, staying calm and try, you know, to do my best until the last point. That's what
I did, and it was worth it.  
 
Q. The tour book says that you have a habit of reading poetry before some of your
matches. 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: No.  
 
Q. I wonder if you read any poetry today. 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: No, no, no. It comes a lot of times this story, but it was more my coach
was reading the poetry. 
 
Q. You don't read poetry?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: No. Happens to me once or two times, but he do it more. Never happens,
you know, before the match.  
 
Q. It seemed like in the third set maybe the key was to hold serve, and then toward the
end of the set, try to break serve. That's exactly what happened. Was that the turning
point?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: I don't know. You know, there is many things going in your mind in the
third set. He came back, you know, in the match. Yeah, it's true you have to hold your
serve. You have to put a lot of first serve in, otherwise he put pressure on you. I was
serving . For me, I think it was good that I start serving, you know, in the third set. I
don't know. I don't know what it was. Maybe he give me some points, you know, some
important points in the third. A lot of things, you know, happen. I was fighting also
good. I was playing some good point in a good moment. I was serving good in a good moment.
That was the key, I think, the serve. 
 
Q. Did you intentionally try to move him all over the court, make him go back and
forth?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: You know, it's pretty difficult. He was playing like he's playing all the
time, like very deep, you know. He's playing very close on the line, so it's very
difficult to make him run. He's hitting very hard. So I was not thinking too much, you
know, just trying to keep the ball inside the court, and that's it.  
 
Q. You don't like to read poetry. What do you kind of like to do? Tell us a little
about yourself away from tennis. 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: Just relax, you know, with my friend, play a little bit also golf. I
don't know. Just listen music and watch TV. During the tournament?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: That's it. Practicing a little bit. 
 
Q. What has kept you over the years from taking that next step up? A couple years ago
you had a great match at The Open. You ended up losing, but it was a terrific match. Your
talent is kind of obvious, but you haven't been able to take that step. Has it been, like
you said earlier, not staying calm on key points?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: Maybe. Yeah, sometimes I lose my mind (laughter). The regularity also on
the matches. 
 
Q. The tour book also says you speak six languages. Is that also a mistake?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: That is also a mistake. 
 
Q. You do speak six languages?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: No, I don't speak six languages. 
 
Q. How many do you speak?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: English, a little bit, I try; French; Arabic; I also understand Italian,
speak a little bit; and Spanish also.  
 
Q. That's five. 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: Yeah, but I'm not very good on it. My friends, the other Moroccans, they
are speaking better than I do.  
 
Q. Why is Morocco suddenly doing so well? You have three people here. That's more than
Germany. 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: Yeah, I don't know. It's just a coincidence. I lived all my life in
France. I was practicing in France. I start with my father who is like a tennis player,
yeah, teaching tennis. Karim Alami was practicing in Spain, and sometimes also in the
States. Younes also practice in the states. Yeah, just coincidence. I didn't know them
very well when I was young. I was just doing my thing. I don't know. That's it.  
 
Q. Do they have the facilities in the country to bring more young people through to be
good players?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: In Morocco?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: No, no. That's why they going all the time like outside. 
 
Q. At The Open, we heard that the Moroccan Federation is very messed up, yet you have
three players here. Why is that? 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: It's still a little bit messed up. Why, I don't know. I don't have too
much contact with them. I go like two or three times a year there in Morocco. I don't know
what's happening there. It's not happening too much.  
 
Q. After a big win, do you ever hear from people or friends from Morocco?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: No. The Federation send me a fax when I'm in quarterfinal in Grand Slam.
Maybe today, I don't know.  
 
Q. When was the last time you lived there full-time? How old were you?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: I lived there until two. 
 
Q. Until you were two?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: Yeah. 
 
Q. So you don't have real strong feelings? You don't know the place as home?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: Yeah, I was going when I was a kid all the time there in vacation for
like two months, till 17.  
 
Q. You didn't play in Scottsdale, did you?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: No, no. My last tournament was in London, then I took two weeks off. 
 
Q. This win today is quite a confidence booster for you, I'm sure. How do you think
you're going to do the rest of the tournament?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: For sure, I mean, I have a lot of confidence now. But for me it's not
good to have too much confidence. It's better to be the opposite, you know, to get in and
think that I'm bad player, then after on the court I can do some good stuff. If I get in
too much confidence, it's not good (laughter).  
 
Q. Looks like you could be playing Rusedski. 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: That's a confidence again, huh? That's the third round.  
 
Q. What's your history against him?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: I lost twice against him. Tough matches, but twice.  
 
Q. Late in the third set, the crowd kind of got behind Andre. Did that affect you? Did
you have to block that out?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: In the third set?  
 
Q. Yes, late in the third set. 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: I feel it, yeah, just at 5-3 when I was serving for the match. Before
that, no, it was okay.  
 
Q. You do a lot of things strategically that people say you shouldn't do against
somebody like Agassi. Do you change your game much at all for people or do you just kind
of play the same game all the time?
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: I don't know. I think I try like to play like all the time. I didn't
understand too much.  
 
Q. People say you shouldn't play behind the baseline against Andre because he gets all
the angles. 
 
 HICHAM ARAZI: Against Andre, you don't have to go to the net because he pass well. You
don't have to serve hard because he's returning hard. You just have to play and then you
see (laughter). If you're in a good day, he's a little bit not too much like in, then you
have a good chance to win, if you stay there in the match.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT