TMS MONTE CARLO
April 21, 2001
Hicham Arazi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Your tactics were to play deep on his backhand?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Yes, of course.  I knew that I had to play cross court on his backhand because when he moves aside, that's when he's the strongest.  So you have to play along the line on the other side.  That was my tactics.  It was not too difficult for me as a left-hander, but he was also attacking me on my forehand.  So we played cross court quite often.  
 

Q.  Otherwise, is there something else you intended to do on the court?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: To try to be patient and wait.  Sebastien played well on clay this week, but I believe his preferred surface is hardcourts.  Generally, he likes to finish the rallies quite early, so the question was to remain patient and to wait for his mistake.  
 

Q.  Did you have the feeling you bothered him?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Yes.  I played really my best match of the whole week.  I played deep, solid.  I didn't make many errors, I fought until the last point.  In my opinion, it's thanks to that, to this competitiveness, that I was able to qualify myself for the final.  
 

Q.  He had the break in the beginning of both sets.  Did you have a problem getting into the match, or was it him...?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: He started off very well.  He was attacking the ball and pushing me a little bit.  Then he started making some mistakes, and I was able to come up in the middle of the first set when I broke him.  Then he made many, many mistakes at 5-4 I believe.  He made two or three unforced errors.  It's true that he started off well, but after he had a bit of a lapse.   
 

Q.  Did you really believe this miraculous ball of Grosjean which was supposed to go out but hits the net, stays in the court, and hits the line?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: I couldn't believe it.  I knew that in the former matches there was a change of situation and there was one here, too, because he broke me but I was able to finish it off in two sets.  But I was really angry at that shot.  
 

Q.  Talking about former matches, I saw that you played against Grosjean, but you said you didn't remember. 
 
HICHAM ARAZI: That's right.  
 

Q.  How can you explain that?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Maybe because I lost it.  I don't remember all my losses.  It's true that he had beaten me at home in Morocco.  (Laughing.) But anyway, sometimes I have memory lapses. So now it's 1-all.  I hope to have revenge, one against the other.  
 

Q.  How does it feel to be in the final of such a tournament after a difficult period for you?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: It's absolutely great and difficult to believe it.  When I came here, I was really thinking to go past one or two rounds and to gain a bit of confidence.  And now I'm in the final in Monte-Carlo.  For me, there is the French Open and Monte-Carlo.  Therefore, it is fantastic.  It's a beautiful dream which is coming true, and I hope I'm going to go further tomorrow.  
 

Q.  Did you believe you were able to raise the level of your game enough to do that?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: It was rather mentally.  My game was there for a while, but mentally it was not following.  Now, tactically and mentally, everything comes together at the same time.  I believe it's thanks to that that I'm in the final.  
 

Q.  What is the importance of Thierry Champion in all that?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: He brings me many things, his experience.  He was a very good player.  He was fighting a lot.  Therefore, he brings me that capacity to fight  after I've seen him playing. Then we talk before the matches, after the matches, we practice hard.  Now and then he gets me waking up at seven o'clock in the morning.  
 

Q.  You don't like that?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: No, but I got into the habit and it's working well.  
 

Q.  How long have you been working with Thierry Champion as a coach for you alone?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: I don't have him for me alone, there is also Paul-Henri Matthieu.  But otherwise, it's been three weeks.  
 

Q.  It's better to have him permanently with you, I imagine?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: But even before, he was traveling all the time with us.  It's been eight months now that I started with him.  Since the Cincinnati tournament, he was all the time with us.  He was free all the time.  
 

Q.  Talking about dreams and performances, reaching the finals of a Master Series, you are now reaching the level of the major Moroccan sportsmen like El Guerrouj and Aouta.  How does it feel? Do you want to go even further?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: It's only my first finals in a Masters Series.  It's extraordinary for me.  Those two sportsmen you are talking about have done a lot more than I did.  They are world champions.  Therefore, I'm far behind I believe.  
 

Q.  And Kuerten, if you have to play against him, what do you think?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: He's the best player on clay during the past two years.  I played him four times and he always beat me, but they were very tight matches.  So I believe anything can happen.  If I'm in the final tomorrow, I will go on to the court with nothing to lose.  I will try to enjoy myself and to hit everything.  
 

Q.  In this type of situation do you believe you will be tense, or on the contrary, you will be really cool, thinking, "I have nothing to lose"?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Any way I'm going to do my best.  I have not much to lose in this match.  In such a situation I play better. 
 

Q.  And if you had to play Coria, you might be considered as the favorite. 
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Yes, shit.  (Laughing.) 
 

Q.  It wouldn't be the same thing anymore?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Difficult. 
 

Q.  Do you know him?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: No, but he has had very good results since the beginning of the season.  He won an ATP title in South America, and he was very consistent in his results.  He's also a very good player.  In fact, it doesn't matter.  I will go to the court in the same state of mind, be it Kuerten or Coria.  
 

Q.  Playing in five sets, is it a handicap or an advantage in the final?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: In the French Open, in the Grand Slams I always played well, so it's more of an advantage.  But if it's against Kuerten, he also played well in the Grand Slams.  It's not going to be obvious. I hope I will be able to hold on if there is a fifth set. 
 

Q.  And about the problem of concentration, is it more difficult to keep concentrated in a five-setter or not?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: No, as far as concentration is concerned, everything is fine.  I'm in the finals, I'm happy, and I would be even more happy if I'm able to win tomorrow. But as far as concentration is concerned, it can last three, four or five sets.  It doesn't matter; I will be present until the last point.  
 

Q.  You're not going to Jimmy'z tonight?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: I don't know that.  What is it?  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT