TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2001
Hicham Arazi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Was it difficult to play with that kind of wind?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: It wasn't obvious.  There were many mistakes on both parts.  It was quite bothering.  
 

Q.  He had a set point against you.  Were you a bit worried at 6-5?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: I don't remember.  I think that during the moment when it happened I didn't really think about it.  I think I made an ace? 
 

Q.  Yes. 
 
HICHAM ARAZI: No, I was not thinking about it.  I was present, I made an ace, I was playing point after point, and I was not concerned by that set point.  
 

Q.  The second set was relatively easy.
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Yes, I think he let go a little bit in the beginning of the second set and, as you said, the conditions were really not in his favor. 
 

Q.  And now Henman?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Yes.  I played him twice on clay.  I beat him the first time, and he beat me the year after in Hamburg.  It's going to be an interesting match, a tight match I believe.  
 

Q.  He improved a lot on clay?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: During those past two years, he did.  He made the third round or Round of 16 in the French Open, I believe.  He improved a lot on clay.  
 

Q.  The quarterfinal gives you new perspective, especially with a match where the prognosis would be in your favor?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: That's for sure.  It's an interesting match to play against a non specialist of clay, but you must always remain cautious.  He beat me last time, he even beat me the last three or four times we've played one against the other.  So it's going to be a quite difficult match.  
 

Q.  Before reaching that stage, you didn't have very good results.  You were injured also.  How do you feel match after match here?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Very good.  I came early, last Wednesday, to have time to prepare myself properly.  It's true I didn't have very good results before.  I only won four matches since the beginning of the year, which is not a lot as far as confidence is concerned.  When I came here, I had a relatively easy first round, and little by little I became more confident.  And it's getting better and better.  I believe I can do something interesting here.  
 

Q.  What does it mean, "something interesting"?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Playing a quarterfinal is already interesting.  Let's see if we can go further.  
 

Q.  You were saying in the beginning of the tournament that you were afraid of no player apart from yourself.  Is that still the case?
 
HICHAM ARAZI: Yes.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT