U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2006
Walter Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tell me about the hole in one.
WALTER HALL:  It was very unusual.  Two years in a row now I made a hole in one.  Yeah, I made one last year at NCR.
Q.  What round was that last year and what hole?
WALTER HALL:  It was on number 13, and I believe it was the third round.
Q.  That's amazing.
WALTER HALL:  Yeah, it's sort of a luck shot, isn't it?  I was just trying to get it up on that green somewhere up there.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
WALTER HALL:  I drove it in the rough, and every time I drove it in the rough I just had to pitch it sideways and then make two sevens on par 5s, and that's where all my shots went right there.

I had horrendous lies both times, missing the fairways.  I missed about five fairways all day, and it happened to be the par 5s.  But anyway, that's okay.
Q.  Walter, your hole in one, did it drop in?
WALTER HALL:  I don't know; I didn't see it.  I hit a really good 7 iron and it landed about 15 feet short, right of the hole and hit that hump, and we couldn't see from the tee.  But we heard the folks at the green yell, so...
Q.  What kind of crowd was there?
WALTER HALL:  It was a pretty good crowd.  They have had great crowds here, great crowds.  Three tremendous crowds.  And even that early in the morning there were a lot of people in the bleachers.
Q.  What kind of charge did that give you?
WALTER HALL:  Well, it gave me a great start, but I came back to earth real quick.  I 3 putted, I bogeyed the next hole, and then 3 putted the next hole.
Q.  What does that do to you mentally when you bet that boost?
WALTER HALL:  I had quite a few of them, probably 16, 17 of them, so you have to get back to earth, you might say, and especially on a golf course like this.  It's just    it's so tough, you just have to keep the ball in play, and I didn't do it several times.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
WALTER HALL:  Yeah, I've been pretty lucky.  I've had a lot of holes in one.  I've been very lucky.
Q.  Have you ever had one to start a round?
WALTER HALL:  Never.  Never.  Because we don't start on a lot of par 3s.  That was definitely the first one to start with.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
WALTER HALL:  That's exactly right.  It could have pumped me up, but instead it went the other way.  I think I got a little overconfident and it went south.
Q.  How much did it deflate you emotionally to bogey the next two holes after that?
WALTER HALL:  I knew I had a lot of golf left and I knew I had to continue to hit fairways and hit greens.  Probably a hole that really hurt me a lot was the par 4, just the short par 4.  I hit it about three foot from the hole and missed the putt.  An easy putt.

That really    that would have got me back under par.  Then I bogeyed 16, just an easy chip shot.  Hit on the front of the green, came back on down the hill.  And then I didn't hit a very good chip shot and missed about a five footer.

Then 17 was just a tough hole.  Just where that green is, that's really tough.  And 18 I hit a pitching wedge on the green and spun it back off the green and I didn't get that one up and down.
Q.  When is the last time you played a course like this?
WALTER HALL:  Never, that I know of.  I mean we played some bad roughs.  We played Aronimink in the PGA and it rained all week and they couldn't do any cutting, and that was really tough.

But, of course, they got a lot of these fairways sideways and you're not going down the fairway.  You're always crossing at an angle here.  That really reduces the size of the fairway to about half.  And    but you know.
Q.  Too bad it's not all par 3s out here.
WALTER HALL:  Really.  Really.
Q.  Are you going to make the cut?
WALTER HALL:  I'm seven over:  It's going to be close.  I think 7 is going to be close.  I really do.  But if it is, it is, if it's not, we go to the ford next week.
Q.  How about 8 and 9 on the back side to finish.
WALTER HALL:  Well, I drove it in the rough on eight and hit a sand wedge in sideways and then I hit a perfect lob wedge.  I thought it hit about 20 feet short of the hole but it hit the down side of one of those humps and careened all the way over the green, and now I got a he really tough shot.  And I was lucky enough to make about a five footer.

And then on nine I hit a really good tee shot.  Hit a 6 iron on the front, spun it back off the green again.  There's so many false fronts and false edges here.  You know, you're just a little bit left or right or a little bit short and the ball won't be on the green.  But anyway, it's a great golf course.  I hope the wind blows.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT