MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 9, 2017
Scott Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SCOTT MILLER: Those are both very good questions. We had a situation where a directive was given from the tower and it wasn't followed. We'll do our due diligence to figure out why the directive wasn't followed, make sure that we're prepared never to make that mistake again. 

Q. After everyone came down pit road, you had a couple cars that actually violated the commitment code violation, that was waved. Also the 20 had damage, you held him to the five‑minute clock. Why did you not wave that?
SCOTT MILLER: I mean, that was a major repair. Would have had to change the radiator. That was one of those things, that's the call that we made. 
I don't think it would have really changed his day any because it would have probably taken 15 or 20 laps to change the radiator. 
At the end of the day, we didn't make that call, but I don't feel like it really changed the outcome of their day much either for us not making that call. 

Q. How do we stop these things from happening as we get into the Playoffs?
SCOTT MILLER: Well, we obviously have to do our due diligence. It's not like this is a common occurrence for us. It was a very strange thing. The track workers are usually very, very good at following the directives. Tonight they didn't follow the directive from the tower. We will do our due diligence to figure it out. 

Q. At that point was it too late to close pit road? A lot of drivers said they thought pit road should have been closed. 
SCOTT MILLER: We probably should. I mean, those calls are very dynamic. They happen very, very quickly. It's the race director in charge of pit road open and closed. The track services and safety crew is in charge of the other. 
We didn't sync up tonight. We will make sure we don't let that happen again. 

Q. In the spring there was an incident where there was a safety truck out. That caused an issue with the pit road entrance. This is the second time something happened at this track this year. 
SCOTT MILLER: Again, it's the race director's call. I don't remember the details of the first one. But it's very tight over there. Every track has its own set of circumstances. It is very tight on this end, on pit end. 
As I said, we will analyze the situation and do a better job. 

Q. How do you make that happen, when you're going through that process to make that happen?
SCOTT MILLER: We get all the people that were involved in the incident, put them in a room, go through it, recreate it, try to determine how we don't let it happen again. 

Q. For those that don't have the understanding of how it comes down from the tower, could you take us through it, a simple explanation for those maybe watching on TV, don't understand how it all works?
SCOTT MILLER: I mean, we obviously have a lot of people in the tower watching a lot of different things. All of it is based on directives from the tower and radio communication to the people and workers that were out on the racetrack. 
When those directives aren't followed, we end up in a situation like tonight. As I've said, we will dissect it and figure out how to not make the mistake again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT