WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2013
Rod Pampling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How'd you play today?   
ROD PAMPLING:   Good.  
   
 Q.   Can you elaborate?   
ROD PAMPLING:   It was interesting early on.   I didn't hit it great, but I made a lot of really good putts out there which kept the round going.   As the day warmed up, I sort of got into the round and started making some birdies and getting up near the lead.  
   
 Q.   Was it a little breezier today?   
ROD PAMPLING:   Yeah, definitely.   It started early too, so had you to be really careful with the wind because it switched out there as well.  
   
 Q.   Nice position to be where you are going into the weekend?   
ROD PAMPLING:   Oh, yeah.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if they'll get far away from 6.   
ROD PAMPLING:   I guess it will somewhere near there, but it's certainly nice to be up in contention again.  
   
 Q.   Lee Westwood mentioned he thought the greens were getting slower as the day progressed.   
ROD PAMPLING:   Let's just say, obviously, it's a (Indiscernible) day.   There are no bumps on the green.   They're a touch quicker, but you can adjust to it easily.  
   
 Q.   Where were you when you found out you got in?   You were like the last guy in.   
ROD PAMPLING:   I was in the car driving back out.   We were first alternate so I was down at Athens about lunchtime on Wednesday.   So once you're the first alternate I figured I'm coming back anyway.   I just hoped that someone pulled out, and thankfully‑‑ I guess it was Ben that got injured.   So, yeah, thank Ben for his spot.  
   
 Q.   It wasn't like you had to get in (Indiscernible)?  
ROD PAMPLING:   No, no.   I was in Monday trying to pre‑Q and went four extra holes there, and it didn't work out.   So I was playing.   I wasn't at home, so we were in game mode.  
   
 Q.   You lost in a playoff Monday?  
ROD PAMPLING:   Four hole, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You drove down to Georgia?  
ROD PAMPLING:   Yep, drove down Tuesday, drove back Wednesday.   My caddie is local, so he knows the road (laughing).  
   
 Q.   Can you give us some details on your birdies?  
ROD PAMPLING:   Tell me which holes they were.   10, I made‑‑ it was a solid hole, made a 15‑footer for birdie there.   Par‑5 15, the chip shot up to three foot, made that.   18, was obviously a nice birdie there.   Hit a driver, 3‑iron maybe 20 foot, made that.   7 was driver, 3‑iron to the back edge and two‑putted there for birdie.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT