AT&T NATIONAL
June 29, 2012
Rod Pampling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How did it feel out there?
ROD PAMPLING:   I don't know how much worse it can get out there.   It's ridiculous.   It's just so hot, you're looking for wind anywhere, shade.   It's just a hot, hot, hot day.   Yeah, obviously we survived and put a good round in.   I'll be heading back to air‑conditioned comfort for the rest of the afternoon.

Q.   Terrific round today.   What were some of the keys on this tough golf course? 
ROD PAMPLING:   It's a positional play.   It's still extremely long, but if you do miss, you've got it miss it on the right or the left of the fairways.   We've played here enough to know which pins we can get to and which you can't do from certain sides.   You're certainly favoring the sides.   Yeah, we didn't drive it great, but we did because we were in the right spots.   And then when I hit good shots in, we took advantage, made some nice putts out there, and that's certainly what you have to do to make a good score.

Q.   Were the greens more receptive today?
ROD PAMPLING:   No, not from the first hole today, 10.   I hit this shot, landed five yards short of it, and I thought, this is going to be good, and yeah, over the back. 
They're certainly‑‑ hopefully they don't lose the greens, but they're pretty firm out there.   There's not a lot of difference.

Q.   Talk about that first tee shot.   You're hitting 4‑, 5‑, 6‑iron over water, first swing of the day.   Talk about what that's like. 
ROD PAMPLING:   Well, thankfully it was pretty calm, and it was a little bit cool.   I'd hate to be there now with‑‑ it's just so hot, hanging onto the club.   It's a stock standard 5‑iron.   You can't look at obviously anything else, you've just got to hit the shot and hopefully you hit it right and go from there.

Q.   Do you change your routine on the practice tee?   Do you end up hitting a few more of those shots when you know that's going to be your first swing of the day?
ROD PAMPLING:   No, not really.   As I said, it was a standard 5‑iron today.   We hit enough of them the last time, so I know what they are.

Q.   Feeling pretty good about things for the weekend?
ROD PAMPLING:   Yeah, it's good.   As I say, I'm comfortable on the golf course, and we're rolling it really nicely, which is a huge advantage going into this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT