FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 26, 2012
Rod Pampling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Couldn't be better conditions today?   
ROD PAMPLING:   Yeah, the weather was pretty impressive.   This is a tough place to live here.  
   
 Q.   Why don't you?   
ROD PAMPLING:   I haven't got the money.  
   
 Q.   What kind of score is 8‑under on the North?   
ROD PAMPLING:   I played yesterday going into the Pro‑Am, and I was like, gosh, if we can get anything under par now, I'll be very happy.   It's a really long golf course now.   But we got off to a good start.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
ROD PAMPLING:   I think especially on the back, they're just strong holes.  
   
 Q.   The par‑4s, par‑3s?   
ROD PAMPLING:   Yeah, just played them solid.   The rest helps as well.   The greens are nice.   It was just the rest of the holes just played solid.  
   
 Q.   Tournaments like these always start competitively.   
ROD PAMPLING:   I guess they do, but you can certainly take yourself out of it.   So it's obviously very nice.   Maybe about six shots better than I've ever shot a round of golf on the North course, so I'm extremely happy.   
Yeah, I'm looking forward to getting on the South course.   Obviously now, the North course (indiscernible).   I've played three days now in a row on the South.   So I'm used to that course.  
   
 Q.   You haven't won in a while.   How does it feel when you play like this on the first day?   
ROD PAMPLING:   It's great.   The last few years have been a struggle.   It's just mental stuff.   We did the work over the holidays and just getting the head back where it's supposed to be.   Realizing that that was the issue.   The game's been fine, I just haven't let it happen, basically.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
ROD PAMPLING:   Yeah.   Well, actually do the work that you're supposed to do.   I don't know why we do it, but we let things slide a little bit.   But it's just basically kind of getting into gear and getting the head and doing the mental stuff.  
   
 Q.   Kind of breaking your routine that way?   
ROD PAMPLING:   Yeah, it's doing the work.   It's practicing the game.   You still have to practice.   I guess I just kind of fell into that, oh, it's pretty good and that sort of hole.   Yeah, it's different.   I'm a bit more aware of it certainly.   
I felt great at it today.   Normally we've been getting the middle of the rounds have been decent, and then you let it slide and don't keep it going.   But today it felt great.   Plus the guys in the group were playing fantastic as well.  
   
 Q.   How do you keep it light?   
ROD PAMPLING:   It's very light.   Pat's very entertaining out there and so is Brandt.   So it was a fun day.   We're all playing good golf and everyone was happy.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
ROD PAMPLING:   Yeah, I think we had par‑5s were pretty low combined.   It was just a good day.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
ROD PAMPLING:   I guess it was just 15 (Indiscernible).   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
ROD PAMPLING:   Oh, 15.   That was a fat shot down there.   He got a long yardage shot in.   He was back there and he just blobs it 20 yards right, and he's just like wow.   What a tough pin.   You can't get aggressive with this, can you?   Then he can't repeat what he called himself afterwards.   Yeah, it's just funny stuff.  
   
 Q.   It wasn't a psychological breakdown.   You talk about your wife's psychology.   What paces does she put you through?   
ROD PAMPLING:   Just basic stuff that can't be written as well.   It's just doing the work that I've done over the years.   That's what I kind of had to say.   I thought it was okay, but it obviously hadn't been.   So that's pretty much it.   It's nothing new.   It's not reinventing the wheel.   It's doing what we should have been doing.  
   
 Q.   Is that the first time you've come out with that attitude in a while?   
ROD PAMPLING:   Oh, no.   Trying to get it going.   Last week the same.   Just the putts didn't fall early on.   Then we got the wind out of the sails lately.   It's just doing it, practicing it more than anything.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
ROD PAMPLING:   Just focus techniques, breathing control.   Yeah, that's just when you start thinking about different things.   Well, I just imagine a stop sign.   You see, I can see that picture of the stop.   So it's basically distracting your mind.   She's always said to me most men think they can do more than one thing at a time, but we can't.   So if I focus on that, it takes me away from the actual issue of what's left.  
   
 Q.   Is it blocking out the negativity too?   
ROD PAMPLING:   Basically.   It just takes the stuff away, and then you get back into your thought process.   Where you want to aim and focus on that target.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT