ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2009
Rod Pampling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good playing. Kind of got off to a nice start and then settled down. What happened at 12 with the double bogey before we talk about the four birdies?  
 ROD PAMPLING: It was playing really long. Had a 5-wood, and I didn't catch it. It had come up quite a ways short, and just buried in the trap right under the left side. Really didn't have a whole lot, and I couldn't get it out. So that decent spot to chip. Then I hit it six foot and missed the putt. So, yeah, pretty easy.  
  
  Q. What was the mindset at that stage?   
 ROD PAMPLING: Well, I wasn't happy. Trust me I wasn't very happy. You know, hitting the 5-wood, and the ball plugs, you're never too happy at the end of that. But I'd been playing good. I hadn't made too many mistakes.   
 I just settled back down and see if we can make some birdies coming in. Missed two opportunities on the short par 4, and then the next par 3, decent shots.   
 I hit three really close ones in a row, and then obviously on 18, I was over 2.   
  
  Q. You played great at the World Golf Championship, Top 10 there, and how would you sum up your year? Ordinary?   
 ROD PAMPLING: Yeah, I didn't play well, obviously, at Tampa and Bay Hill. I just wasn't quite on, and then the short game wasn't on as well. They're tough courses.   
 But last week started off nicely. It was kind of towards the end of the week things weren't going the right way. Hit four bad tee shots and they all went into the water. When you look around, there's not much water there, but I managed to find it all. And they add up pretty quick. That's not too bad.  
  
  Q. Having said that, did you come here with a reasonable amount of confidence from last week?   
 ROD PAMPLING: Yeah, you know what, I played really nicely the first few days. I got back on the range early this week, and found that form again. It was just a matter of getting some putts going in. If I have a good putting day, it would really be a nice chance.   
 You know, the form's good. Just keep patient and see what we come up with.  
  
  Q. Any different today? Is it drying out?   
 ROD PAMPLING: It's been pretty dry from the word go on Thursday. It's really good. I think they might have put a touch of water on last night, which they kind of needed.   
 Yesterday afternoon was getting crusty a bit. Now the course is playing really nice. Hopefully, they'll leave it the way it is. They're setting the course up really well. They're not making it ridiculously long, which potentially they can do. But I think they've done a good job.   
  
  Q. Are you happy you got yourself within a sniff of the lead?   
 ROD PAMPLING: Yeah, obviously there are still a few holes to go. Jerry could still do something. But at least we've at this stage, we've made ground, so that's all you can hope you do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT