AT&T NATIONAL
July 6, 2008
Rod Pampling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round, just obviously an awesome round and one away from breaking the record.   
 ROD PAMPLING: Yeah, you know, it was a very boring round of golf. I drove it very well. I hit a lot of greens, and I made I guess one putt on the front nine, the eighth hole for birdie and then still is the same on the back nine until we holed that shot until I think it was 14.   
 Then, yeah, we made two birdies on 17 and 18, and so really, it was -- I didn't have a chance to get nervous out there. I was just kind of hanging around not doing a whole lot and then all of a sudden 4-under in the last four holes, all of a sudden, we're tied second now, and just wait and see how Anthony finishes.  
  
  Q. Were you thinking about the record at all?   
 ROD PAMPLING: No. I didn't know what record.   
  
  Q. The course record.   
 ROD PAMPLING: I think I shot five today, so that's 65. I think Lonard was the one who shot 7.   
  
  Q. Do you expect anybody to come back to you?  
 ROD PAMPLING: Do I expect to? No. Do I hope so? Yeah, of course I do. It would be nice to have a chance in a playoff, but I don't think so.   
 Obviously Anthony, he's on the 16th hole now, his par 5, with his length, I would imagine that he's going to birdie that.   
 17 is a nice pin where you can really get to it, and 18, anything can happen there. When you're challenging for the lead and you actually have to hit a shot to the back left corner, it's pretty tough and it depends on how they drive it.   
  
  Q. What do you think of Anthony Kim's game?  
 ROD PAMPLING: He's obviously very solid. He's got plenty of game and hits it miles and does all the right things. He'll be out here for a long time.   
  
  Q. What about momentum going into the British Open?  
 ROD PAMPLING: Oh, yeah, the game has felt really solid since Colonial. I should say, I feel like I'm putting good. We didn't make many putts this week, but it certainly feels good. So hopefully we can get them going in and there will be a chance next week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT