AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2008
Rod Pampling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Thoughts on your round)?  
 ROD PAMPLING: It was a good, solid day. Any time you shoot 4-under around Congressional, you should be happy.   
  
  Q. How much different is it from last year?  
 ROD PAMPLING: Last year the rough was extremely difficult, so you had to hit every fairway basically to have a shot at the green otherwise it was chipping out sideways.  
 It's playing fantastic and this time allows you to have a go at the greens if you're in the rough, which obviously then brings in the trouble if you do go long. I think the course is playing great.   
  
  Q. Shooting 4-under here at Congressional --  
 ROD PAMPLING: Yeah I played well here a lot of the times and I have a good feeling around here. Yeah, the form has been solid and it was nice to shoot a good day.   
  
  Q. Your birdies?  
 ROD PAMPLING: We started on 11, hit it -- actually just came up a little bit short and had a bit of a wait there and chipped it in and that was a nice way to kick the round off. On 14, hit it pretty close there. Hit it to about four foot and made that.   
 Was in the green-side bunker on the par 5 on 16. Got that up-and-down.   
 17 was pin-high left about maybe a 25-footer, made that.   
 And then we had bogeys on 4 and 6.   
 On 16, hit it to about 12 feet and on 18 was another maybe 15-footer.   
  
  Q. The rough -- you were in that spot last year --  
 ROD PAMPLING: I doubt it. I would have been trying to hit it just short of the bunkers on the green there and chipping it up.   
 I like the way it allows you -- playing with Ryuji, and he was on the right side in the rough and he had a crack at it and his went over the bunkers left. He was lucky to make five.   
 The rough is fantastic and it gives you a chance; and if you get a flyer, you're really in trouble. Whereas last year, it was basically hit it to the front of the green and nine times out of ten -- unless you're playing well, and I was chipping and putting a lot of them.  
  
  Q. Does it feel like a U.S. Open course?  
 ROD PAMPLING: Oh, here, it's a great golf course, yeah. You could still play a U.S. Open out here now. It's a fantastic golf course.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like your form is at a crescendo this season --  
 ROD PAMPLING: It's hit and miss, and if I make the cut, I'm playing really well or if I miss the cut -- it's one of those years I'm like 50/50, whereas most years I only miss three or four cuts a year.  
 It's certainly been different but the form has been good. We all miss a win so whenever you have a win, it always finishes your year off nicely.  
  
  Q. What's the key to shooting a low round, and to shoot another good round the next day; it's a tough thing to do?  
 ROD PAMPLING: Yes, it is, it certainly is a tough thing to do. But go out there with the same game plan, play shot for shot and see what comes our way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT