THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 31, 2007
Rod Pampling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 
 Q.  Well, fun out there? 
 ROD PAMPLING:  It was, definitely, a lot of fun. 
 
 Q.  Talk about your round a little bit.  Obviously you finished on a high note on 18? 
 ROD PAMPLING:  Yeah, it was a good, solid day.  We hit a lot of great tee shots, a lot of great iron shots in there and knocked it -- obviously made some nice putts.  I was thankful I had a few good reads off my playing partners, which certainly helped make some putts.  As I say, I finished off the last with a nice birdie. 
 
 Q.  The golf course, obviously we've seen some good scores out there.  Is it -- we thought it might be playing pretty tough. 
 ROD PAMPLING:  Well, it is a tough golf course, you know, but we've got perfect conditions for golf.  When we get perfect conditions, with the quality of field, you're going to shoot low.  There wasn't that bit of wind that gave the course a little bit of defense.  It's still a good, strong golf course.  Trust me, it'll get us back, I'm sure. 
 
 Q.  Greens fairly quick? 
 ROD PAMPLING:  Yeah, very firm and quick.  The golf course is playing great.  Lucky we had a nice day with no wind so we could be a little bit more aggressive than usual. 
 
 Q.  Kind of an up-and-down day for you.  Are you focusing on the good things or the strokes you left out there? 
 ROD PAMPLING:  Well, nine birdies and two bogeys, it was just a couple at the end there, but it was a nice, solid day.  I played really well, and yeah, just keep with the same flow with that and see what the next three days hold. 
 
 Q.  On 14 when you go in the creek, what happened there?  Was that a mis-club? 
 ROD PAMPLING:  Well, obviously it was.  We hit it too far.  We hit 5-wood there every day and it had been fine.  Obviously the fairway dried out really quickly overnight.  Obviously it was the wrong club. 
 
 Q.  So you hit the same club you always hit on that hole? 
 ROD PAMPLING:  We hit that, yeah, Tuesday, Wednesday, and it was fine every other day.  You know, that's just one of those deals. 
 
 Q.  Share of the lead, how pumped does a round get you upcoming back for tomorrow? 
 ROD PAMPLING:  It's great to shoot a good round around here.  We obviously have three days left so there's a lot of golf to be played.  It's nice to be leading after day one, puts you in a pretty good position. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT