WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 19, 2004
Rod Pampling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   How many holes did you get in?
ROD PAMPLING:  We're on the 13th fairway.
Q.   In general are you pleased with the way the day went?
ROD PAMPLING:  Sure.  It was a long day, everybody was kind of waiting around, but I got off to a nice start, made some nice putts and just kind of held it there.
Q.   What do you think of this tournament?  Is this one of those events you've wanted to get into for a few years?
ROD PAMPLING:  Sure, these are great events to get into.  There's no cut.  The World Ranking points, it's definitely one of those that you need to get into to keep heading up the World Rankings ladder.
Q.   Is it living up to expectations so far?
ROD PAMPLING:  The course is fantastic, it really is.  Obviously we got a lot of rain, but it's still playing     not super quick, but it's still a lot quicker than I thought it would be.
Q.   Even after that deluge, it was still
ROD PAMPLING:  With the amount of rain we had, you kind of expected the ball to just plug on the fairways, but no, they're popping out of there quite well.
Q.   Was it kind of a bummer, though?  It was almost perfect until
ROD PAMPLING:  The course was fantastic yesterday afternoon, but there's nothing much you can really do about it.  We've all got to play the same golf course.  I'm sure if we don't get too much more rain it'll get back to being relatively quick anyway.
Q.   Having to get up at the crack of dawn to finish a couple holes, is that kind of a
ROD PAMPLING:  That's just part of it.  You just know with the delays, if you haven't finished you're going to have an early start, but that's just part of what you have to deal with.
Q.   Did you have a few more people this week recognize you after The International?  Are the American fans recognizing you now?
ROD PAMPLING:  Sort of.  Playing with John Daly it's a little hard, they're all going for John.  It's still nice.  People say, "Well done at The International," so obviously my face is getting out there a little more.
Q.   You're not getting stopped at airports yet, though, are you?
ROD PAMPLING:  No, not at that stage yet.
Q.   Is it weird, though, playing with Daly when you feel like everybody is rooting for him?
ROD PAMPLING:  No, that's just part of it.  John is a crowd favorite and you just expect it.  The crowds are fine.  They don't sort of yell and holler when you're trying to hit, so it's fine.  It's part of it.  It's fun to be there with him and listen to the crowds.
Q.   You seem to have a knack in your career for getting off to good starts on the first round.  Is that true?
ROD PAMPLING:  I suppose it's been true in the big events, but generally it's     I don't know, I'd have to look back to see, but it always helps to start well.
Q.   Is there something about your preparation where you've got to get it together
ROD PAMPLING:  I think maybe just getting used to the situations, and by Saturday and Sunday you're right in there.  It's just getting used to that.  It's slowly but surely getting accustomed to being up there on the weekends.
Q.   Are you still in a little bit of a confidence high after The International.
ROD PAMPLING:  I know I'm playing well, sure.  Whenever you win you're always going to be confident.  I played well last week until the last day, so I know my game is there, it's just a matter of letting it happen.  Yep, so far it's still happening.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT