BUICK OPEN
August 19, 2002
Rod Pampling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Thank you for joining us, second round 66, puts you at 9-under par for the tournament; tied for the lead.  There's still a lot of players on the course today but you have got to be happy with your position going into tomorrow's third round.
ROD PAMPLING: Definitely.  It's a nice position.   Yeah, it definitely sets myself up for a good weekend and giving me a chance, that's for sure.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Having played in the afternoon yesterday talk a little bit about the differences between playing in the morning and the afternoon or is it so sublime out there that it doesn't really matter when you are playing?
ROD PAMPLING: I think yesterday afternoon was a little bit more breeze up and it was pretty much into the par 5s on 17 and 8.  So that was the kind of holes you had to pretty much play, definitely a 3-shot hole, and today I was right on the front edge of both of them, so that made it a little bit easier.  I just think the putting surface was just a little bit smoother this morning.  The greens are rolling great, but I think just yesterday afternoon there were a little bit few more heal marks and that which is to be expected. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Questions. 
Q.  (Inaudible)
ROD PAMPLING: Iron-play, I think hitting a lot of  really good iron shots, that was the key. 

Q.  A lot of good golfers out there in this field.  No. 1, No. 2, No. 4 in the world.  Two of them already finished; they are not in the lead.  You guys are out there.  How does it feel to be there and knowing those guys are somewhat back there?  How does that make you feel as well?
ROD PAMPLING: Obviously, it is a very strong field, to be in front well at this stage.  Obviously there's still the afternoon field still out there. It's great.  I know I am playing well.  And I know my game can compete with the best in the world, so yeah, it tells you my game is pretty close to being right.  I am looking forward to the challenge and the weekend of playing with these guys. 

Q.  You are 9-under now.  Do you expect you will have to be at least that on the weekend to be in contention at the end?
ROD PAMPLING:  If conditions stay the same, yeah, I definitely think I have to double my score which it's definitely out there.  As I say, I played good today.  I played pretty solid yesterday.  But yeah, 18 is a good number.  If you want to give it to me, I will take it now.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Started on the back side and you finished up with birdies on 15, 16, 17.  Tell me the club selection and yardage you had there on 15.
ROD PAMPLING: 15 was 7-iron.  We had 153 meters to the hole, 7-iron about 15-foot, pin-high left.  Made that.
Then on 16 driver, 3-wood to about 10 foot short and chipped it up to a couple of inches.
17, we hit 6-iron to about 10 foot.
1 hit driver, 3-wood onto about 20-foot there.  2-putted.
2, hit it down the right side and caught top of a tree sort of fell down so I had 200 meters in.  Tried to cut a 2-iron around just didn't cut finished in the left rough just near the green and chipped and 2-putted.
3, birdie, 4-iron on 3, just over the back edge just right behind the hole, that was maybe four, five yards.
4, 3-wood, 9-iron into the left trap and holed a trap shot.  I was maybe 20-foot from the hole.  It wasn't that far away.
7, was driver 3-wood to the front edge and chipped it up to two foot, made that. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Talk a little bit about your expectations for the weekend and getting to play in the afternoon tomorrow.
ROD PAMPLING: I expect a lot from my game.  I know I am playing well and just go out there and keep my emotions under control we'll look forward to a really good weekend. 

Q.  The book says you have made a ton of money on the BUY.COM, even though you didn't win.  Are you getting a little anxious to get a trophy instead of just all those checks; nothing wrong with the money?
ROD PAMPLING: The money is good.  Oh, sure, you'd like to have a win, but last year our goal was to finish top 15, as high as we could.  If a win had come along, great.  This year, obviously this is my first year out on Tour, the goal is to finish -- get our card, and reevaluate as we go.  Obviously now we have played pretty good earlier in the year so we're looking for a top 70 on the money list.  We really haven't  -- if a win comes along, great, but it's not something I am putting pressure on myself that I have to win this year.  It's my first year out here, so I will wait 'til my second year before I win. 

Q.  There is time to worry about that?
ROD PAMPLING: Yeah.  Definitely.  Don't need to win out here to make some nice money. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you and good luck this weekend.
ROD PAMPLING: Thank you. 






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT