BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2012
David Drysdale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Seem like an act of cruelty to recap that round?  
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Not really.   I felt so comfortable this morning.   Hit the ball beautifully on the range.   Went out, hit two lovely shots down the first, nice birdie at 2.   Gave myself a few chances.   A decent 3‑wood down the fairway at No. 8 which just ran under the sort of grassy bank that crosses the fairway and a sandy divot.   From there, I probably should have just chipped it down and wedged it over the water, it was a little bit of a gamble.   I didn't quite catch it right and went into the water and my drop went into the water and made an 86789.  
From there, just a tough day.   And then getting the wind direction, I had 152 to the flag on No.9, hit a little wedge over the green, just you can't get up‑and‑down from there.   
10, 180 into the wind, 5‑iron over the green, made double.   Just compounded the errors, really.   Just didn't hit bad shots.   Just wrong clubs going through the wind.   
The wind was gusting, the wind was dropping, getting the direction was a bit difficult.   I know this course well enough to know that that's a tricky sort of‑‑ that's their Amen Corner, if you like, sort of 8, 9, 10,11 around there and just made a complete mess.   
   
 Q.   Nine shots dropped in six holes, was it a case during that round that you were unravelling or was it just that there was one shot unlucky that just set you off?   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Things like I had 180 to the front at No. 12.   There's easily been two clubs of wind out there at times.   I hit a 6‑iron 185.     I tried to hit 8‑iron straight at No. 12, shot in the trap.   
Next hole I had 190 into the breeze and I'm standing there thinking, what am I going to hit.   190 into the breeze normally for me, I know the greens are firm, would be a real good 5 possibly a 4; I hit 6‑iron ten yards over the 13th green from 190.   
It's just bizarre how far the golf ball is going, even into the wind.   I just knocked it‑‑ I know the tee is forward at 17, but I could get on there easily, hit my drive 330 yards at 17 into the breeze.   It's just going a long, long ways.   I misjudged it a few times and that's where all of the dropped shots came from.   
   
 Q.   What's your view of the condition of the course?   A number of players being highly critical at the firmness of the greens; that the balls are bouncing all over the place and that there's not enough water on the greens.   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Well, they certainly have firmed them up since they were changed two or three years ago.   I don't see how you can have soft greens in weather like this when you have really warm, windy weather.   It's firm and it's just is what it is.   Wedges are releasing a long way.   
   
 Q.   Have they just misjudged it over the last couple of days?   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   I don't really think so.   I think that's sort of‑‑ I would always like to play a firm, fast golf course.   It makes it more difficult.   Because we've had so much rain in Europe the last few years, it seems like we play target golf nowadays, which I don't like.   I grew up playing links; I quite like to see the ball release.   I don't see an issue with it and especially the weather we've had all week, it's not possible to have holding greens.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT