BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2012
David Drysdale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about a good day. 
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Yeah, it was probably not as good as yesterday, well, obviously not as good as yesterday, but I think really for the way I played, 70 was quite a good score.

Q.   And after the bogey at the first, you regrouped nicely and got a good score together. 
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Yeah, it was a slight bogey at No. 1 to be fair.   I only had a 7‑iron going in there and missed the pin left.   Missed a short‑ish putt for par and birdied 4 and 5 to get back.   And holed quite a large putt at No. 8 for birdie, about 20‑foot for par.   My putting kept me going today. 

Q.   Eagle opportunity at the last, not very far off, was it.
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Yeah, but again like yesterday's shot I was aiming ten yards right of the flag and if I'm honesty pulled it a little bit again.   But was straight at it and had a decent chance for eagle from probably 30 feet.

Q.   Anything that really turned against to you counter yesterday? 
DAVID DRYSDALE:   No, not really.   I mean, I made a fantastic, lucky par at No.9, drove it in the left trap and right on the face, just came out of 0 yards and holed probably a 20‑footer for par.   But other than that, no, it's been quite even today I think.

Q.   Well, these things tend to even out?
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Yeah, sort of reckon.   I guess they do.

Q.   Have you watched back on TV and seen what's happened on the first one and the way your ball bounced out of the water? 
DAVID DRYSDALE:   I saw it once last night on SKY News.   Incredible.   I actually thought it pitched in the middle of the water.   I was thinking, how can it pitch in there and get out but when I saw it on TV, it's only about a foot away from the left side of the water.   I mean, it's not deep.   It's probably only about six or eight inches.   It must have just gone straight in with so much power and hit the rocks and straight out.   Unbelievable. 

Q.   And lovely position to find yourself in still after two days, isn't it? 
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Absolutely.   Should be there or thereabouts going into the weekend.

Q.   With the wind picking up, it probably will strengthen your score even more?
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Yeah, certainly forecast to pick up all day.   17 and 18 are still chances even if it's windy. 
In good position going into the weekend.   I would have grabbed that with both hands before Thursday, definitely.

Q.   What was the mind said given how you played yesterday, was it to try to consolidate what you have done or push on? 
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Mind‑set this morning, thinking I had the best of the greens and the calmest of the weather, because the wind is forecast to get up all day.   Basically just to go out and play almost the way I've been playing all season, hitting fairways and hitting greens and try and make a few putts.   I wasn't really feeling any extra pressure or anything.   I was quite relaxed and just didn't really play as well as I did yesterday. 

Q.   One stage at the back nine looking to be quite problematic for, but birdied 18, put a better shine on it?
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Yeah, I drove it in the bunker at No. 13, which is a tough hole anyway.   And in the bunker off the tee at 16, so a couple of my takes from the tee.   But a nice 4 to finish it at 18. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT