BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2012
David Drysdale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   David, wonderful 66 but perhaps the unlikeliest birdie of the lot at 18.   Explain your view of what happened there.   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Trying to cut my second shot on the left, and I think it landed‑‑ don't know how it came back out, but I'll take the break.  
   
 Q.   Thank you very much to Ernie Els for these bouncy pebbles he put in there this year.   You could do with a little bit of luck this season obviously because we know that since Seville there was the bad back problem and you've had a couple of injury problems.   How would you sum up your season, and how much of a bonus is this today for you?   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Season has been good, from tee‑to‑green, I've been hitting the ball well, haven't holed many putts all season.   The back injury, I was a little unlucky but I seem to get something every year for a couple of weeks.   
Overall, tee‑to‑green, my golf has been good this year.   Just haven't been rolling the putts and today, I hit a few shots on the last few holes but played nicely the first sort of 12 and 13 and managed to roll a few putts in.  
   
 Q.   Describe the feeling of looking up and seeing your name at the head of this great championship so far.   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Fantastic.   There are so many great champions, I don't know how long the tournament has been running but it seems like forever.   I would be very young sitting and watching the telly.   I don't know if it will be leading at the end of the day but it will be there or thereabouts.   
Back was pretty bad when I got home, had three or four days off before Seville and then was fine and then felt it again on the Wednesday.   I have a physio in Edinburgh.   And then I had six days in Dubai, 40‑plus degrees heat there, so got a lot of heat on it; and touch wood, I haven't felt it.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on this tournament?   This is your fourth time.   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   I played in 2003 and last two years.   It's the Flagship Event and best tournament on The European Tour without a doubt and one you want to play in, and because so many guys want to play in it, it's tough to get into.  
   
 Q.   You've had some decent finishes that you've played so far.   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   I think I missed the cut last year by a shot which is unbelievable.   You get the wrong side of the draw‑‑ was making the cut all day on Friday but ended up missing right on the number and I think I got a 40th or something.   It's not been fantastic.   But it is a golf course that should suit me.   I generally drive the ball straight and that's definitely key around here.   Hopefully keep it going for the rest of the week.   
   
 Q.   What are your expectations now that you've carded the 66?   Does it change your approach to the week now?  
DAVID DRYSDALE:   Not really.   I've been waiting all season to sort of put a round of golf together.   Keep trying to play the way I have most of the season which has been pretty decent from tee‑to‑green, and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit off 18?  
DAVID DRYSDALE:   212 front but 222‑‑ wind is out of the left, I was trying to hit it kind of on the flag and a little bit of a fade in the wind and thinking of getting on the right side of the trip on the back trip, thought I would be fine but one of these, you try and cut‑‑  
   
 Q.   Were you relief when you saw where it finished?   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   I was jumping up‑and‑down in the fairway‑‑ it bounced up on the green, but was happy to see where it was, definitely.   One of these shots that's the total opposite of the golf shot you're trying to hit.   
212 front, it's quite an easy, should be quite an easy shot.   
   
 Q.   How long was it before you realised where the ball was?   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   It was pretty much when I got to it.   
   
 Q.   You spoke to Damien on the way up?   
DAVID DRYSDALE:   He said it bounced up, but I couldn't see it.   It's just on the rise where I was walking up the fairway so I couldn't really see it.   It's still in the hazard actually.   Just in the hazard.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT