THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2009
David Drysdale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. One of your favourite venues?   
 DAVID DRYSDALE: Didn't look the front nine, my back nine, the front nine. Put a great one together, five birdies in a row, 1 through 5, fantastic.   
 Gap wedge to the first to 15 feet, nice putt to hole.   
 Same distance again it out of the bunker.   
 A wedge close at No. 4 to about four feet.   
  
  Q. A chance at 6?  
 DAVID DRYSDALE: I had a chance, a 10-footer, I thought it was left center it went left. But I had chances even the last couple, as well.   
  
  Q. Overall quite happy?   
 DAVID DRYSDALE: I shot 65 I think in 2006. I seem to start well around here.  
  
  Q. Athletes talk about being in the zone when they have a consistent spell of really good form, are you in a place now where you are expecting to perform well almost?  
 DAVID DRYSDALE: I'm playing well, so I do expect to score well, but I didn't start particularly well today, I had a few loose shots and was tough on my game but then I got in the zone if you like, from the first, my 10th. You can't expect anything in this game, it comes up and bites you as soon as you think you've got it.   
  
  Q. Do you feel that added pressure on your first hole of the day?  
 DAVID DRYSDALE: I felt line. Hit a nice 3-wood in the fairway and I half-thin-shanked a 7-iron in the right bunker. I felt fine but I was a little nervous as you are, even though I'm more at home in Scotland than anywhere else. No, I was fine. Great support today. Quite a few people up from my area watching today, so it's been fun, yeah.   
  
  Q. As many birdies as you've had?   
 DAVID DRYSDALE: Funny enough, last week I started in France the first round, same sort of thing happened to me. I birdied the second, which is my 11th, eagled 3, birdied the next and birdied the next. I seem to be having a few of these runs for three, four, five holes where I'm putting a score together but not going an awful lot outside of that.   
 It's nice to get a bit of recognition for playing good golf.   
  
  Q. How good was your up-and-down at the 14th?   
 DAVID DRYSDALE: That was, I tell you what, if you give me 50 balls, I don't know if I could get up-and-down again to be honest. That was pretty important at the time.   
  
  Q. From?   
 DAVID DRYSDALE: From long left, or pin-high left. Hit what I thought was quite a nice wedge shot in there. It pitched in the back fringe and jumped into the grandstand. It was a great up-and-down.  
  
  Q. Any part of your game you're particularly pleased with at the minute?  
 DAVID DRYSDALE: It's all pretty decent. Nothing really fantastic, but driven the ball pretty good. Putter has been all right.  
  
  Q. You can play more relaxed because of the situation you're in.   
 DAVID DRYSDALE:: A position I've never been in, so not in a position of having to make cheques to keep my card. Seem relaxed on the golf course. Enjoying it more I guess.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT