BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 26, 2009
David Drysdale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 64 today, you certainly took advantage of the benign conditions, was it playing a lot easier today? 
 DAVID DRYSDALE: It was. Yesterday was quite easy, as well, to be honest. I played quite well yesterday and then a little bit of a lapse mid round. Today played lovely all day and could have been a few lower. 

 Q. Talk us through your stretch on the 9th, because you had a few good holes there. 
 DAVID DRYSDALE: I did. I hit a wedge to about two feet on No. 9. 
 10, driver, 5-iron. I think 10 is probably the hardest hole on the golf course. It's about ten feet, nice birdie, and then a 3-wood into the par-5 11, to maybe ten, 12 feet for eagle. So it is a fantastic little round.

 Q. Could you pinpoint a key to your game today?
 DAVID DRYSDALE: I drove the ball straight until the last hole, actually, missed the fairway. But other than that, I pretty much hit all the fairways. 
 That's the key. The rough is thick, so if you hit the fairways, you have a lot of chances. It's pretty much target golf.

 Q. Has the course drained very well?
 DAVID DRYSDALE: It's incredible. I can't believe, we didn't play Tuesday, it poured down. We arrived Monday five o'clock, and 27 hours in a row it rained. Golf course is fantastic.

 Q. How do you feel going into the weekend?
 DAVID DRYSDALE: Looking forward to it. Hopefully I can just perform the way I have done the first two days, keep it going. 

 Q. Did you get to Turnberry?
 DAVID DRYSDALE: Yeah, I played it twice. 

 Q. When was that?
 DAVID DRYSDALE: I played it the Friday after Sunningdale and then the Friday after that. Played it in flat-calm, which was quite easy and then played it in a hurricane and it was impossible. 
 It's looking fantastic, though. Lots of juicy rough around there, as well. 

 Q. Can you believe how well the season has gone? I saw you at Q-School and thought, well, here we are again, and it's really taken off. 
 DAVID DRYSDALE: It has, really from sort of August last year, I started working with David Downie who has helped me a lot coaching-wise. My game has been getting better and better, and ball-striking, certainly. This is the best position I've ever been in before. Last couple of days I've been playing my own golf instead of having to think about winning a cheque or getting my card. So a nice position to be in for once. 

 Q. So do you feel you can show yourself for the golfer you really are rather than the golfer you're trying to prove?
 DAVID DRYSDALE: Yeah, that's the plan. I just want to relax and play. I've never had an opportunity to do that. I guess it's pressure you put on yourself to avoid that Tour School every year. First and foremost, you want to get your money up and card secured.

 Q. How many times did you go back to Q-School? 
 DAVID DRYSDALE: More than the fingers I've got, anyway. I think probably '98 through to -- I kept my card one year, 2002 and got my card from The Challenge Tour one season. 

 Q. Where is David Downie at? 
 DAVID DRYSDALE: He's here somewhere. He's at Ladybank. You all know Ladybank, Fife. 

 Q. He used to play the Scottish Amateur. 
 DAVID DRYSDALE: Did he win the Scottish Stroke Play or something? He turned pro, as well, roughly same time as me. We played professional golf for about four or five years together, and now he's got his amateur status -- no, he hasn't got his amateur status back; and now he's professional because he can't get paid for coaching. 

 Q. Will you play the next few weeks? 
 DAVID DRYSDALE: I'm not in next week. I was 13th reserve. I have not looked if it's moved at all but Top-10 would be nice. 

 Q. And Loch Lomond?
 DAVID DRYSDALE: Loch Lomond I'm going to be miles away. Fingers crossed. 

 Q. More excited about the Open than any other event you've ever played? 
 DAVID DRYSDALE: Definitely. It's going to be my first-ever Open, first-ever major. Can't wait. I've been to the course twice in the last two weeks. It's looking fantastic. It's tough. 

 Q. What do you like about it? 
 DAVID DRYSDALE: I grew up on links golf, so it sort of suits my eye if you like. Pretty similar to Royal Dunbar, except from a thousand yards longer and an awful lot narrower basically. 
 But no, I'm looking forward to it. I hope it's firm and fast. It's getting that way now. 

 Q. So friends and family has already told you they are going to come and support you? 
 DAVID DRYSDALE: Yeah, just about everybody. All of my family are going to go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT