ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2017
David Drysdale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. At the 10th, you were level par through 11 holes and came back with five birdies in the last seven holes.  What was the key to that?
DAVID DRYSDALE: Yeah, I mean, I actually got off to a reasonable start.  I was a couple under through six I think and then let it slip, a couple of close swings.  But hit a couple of good shots down the last few.  Hit a few close and holed a few six- to 12-footers, which is nice.
Q. You've played in this championship about a dozen times and you know these courses well.  How valuable is that knowledge in that you don't get much chance to prepare?
DAVID DRYSDALE: Yeah, especially with the amount of golf we've played recently, finishing on Sunday, and then at Close House, and I just had a game at Carnoustie; we know them so well, it's not necessary to play at all.  Just come out and have a wander and a look at the greens and get the pace of the greens.
Yeah, played them so many times.  Got all the knowledge and know all the bounces and lies off tees.  Certainly key at St. Andrews.  But got a lot of inside knowledge.
Q. What about the support you receive in Scotland?  Do you have friends and family watching?
DAVID DRYSDALE: Yeah, I have a few friends and my parents are up.  They come and support any of the local tournaments.  All the British events, anyway, Scottish events.  It's a little bit chilly for them but there was a few claps, a few roars out there.
Q. Playing with a couple of music legends today.  How much do you enjoy this format where you get to spend time with guys of that calibre?
DAVID DRYSDALE: Yeah, it's great fun.  The guys are, like you say, legends.  It's such a relaxed atmosphere.  Every day is a bit like a Wednesday Pro-Am, just sort of chilled.  Definitely has a different feel about it but you've still got to switch on, concentrate when it's your shot.
Yeah, it's good fun chatting to these guys.  They are still touring all over the world.  Mike did 50 gigs last year, just incredible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT