PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2015
David Drysdale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DRYSDALE: I think I was 3-under through my front nine, the back nine.  Just steady golf, gave myself a lot of chances, could have been lower, but I'm happy overall.
Q. Your playing partner, Paul Maddy, said you fed off each other and even Korhonen was holing long putts, as well?
DAVID DRYSDALE: Yeah, we all played pretty good all day.  It was never any bother.  It was a lot of good shots, just good shot after good shot.  It was nice to see.
Q. It was probably perfect conditions or near perfect conditions to play, isn't it?
DAVID DRYSDALE: Obviously with the fog this morning it was looking a bit cool and possibly a bit rainy, but once the sun came up it was fantastic.  It's probably in the 20s now, or something like that.
Q. Was that in your mind in the approach to today?  You probably knew you had to get off to a good start?
DAVID DRYSDALE: Well, after last year, we ended up playing 36 holes.  I mean, it's a bit of a Armageddon that it could possibly be three rounds.  That wasn't in my mind.  Just hit one shot at a time and be patient.
Q. Are we to take it that you are fully fit now because you've had your worries in recent times?
DAVID DRYSDALE: Yeah, I tore my calf muscle at the start of the Italian Open.  Ten days of physio.  Barton back home, he's done an amazing job.  I was back hitting the ball Tuesday of Dunhill, made the cut last week.  I would say it's probably 100 percent now.
Q. Is that very much down to the physio or is it your own willpower as well?  Because not everybody comes back that quick?
DAVID DRYSDALE: I've done a lot of work, lot of stuff in the sea, a lot of stuff in the gym, believe it or not.  A lot of people don't think I go to the gym, but I do a little bit now and again, and the physio.  Without Barton, it would have (inaudible).
Q. Did I hear that correctly, a lot of stuff in the sea?
DAVID DRYSDALE: Yes, just in the North Sea.  Up to my shorts, up to my knees just walking up and down, great resistance and great temperature for it as well.
Q. It's freezing with you live?
DAVID DRYSDALE: A jacket and a pair of shorts in the ocean.  It's cold, but it was good for it.it's






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT