MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 7, 2020
Alejandro Pozuelo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You had a great season, and Toronto FC did very well despite all the difficulties that the team had, but it ended earlier than you wanted.  Does this award make you feel any better about the season?
ALEJANDRO POZUELO:   Yes, like I said at the time, for the Canadian team and for Toronto, we had a difficult year.  We need to play in other pitch.  We don't play in Toronto, so this is difficult to be away from the family.  But we need to adapt and I think the team, we adapt in this situation, and individually, myself, I think I played really good games but because my teammates help me to do this.  Just for me, I think it will be good year.
Q. Do you think that the 2020 season was the best football you ever played?  I might have missed that in the Spanish part of your interview there, and if so, how much better do you think you can even get in the future?
ALEJANDRO POZUELO:   Yes, in game, also, I played really good three years.  Also I nominated to be best player in Spain.  Also in my passing game, I played really good, yes.  But I tried to come here, I know before me in my position, it's normal position, but I come to replace Giovinco, and everybody that speak about this and everybody told me if I have some pressure to come and to play in this situation.
And I said, I played before in game, I believe in myself.  I know I can play good and I try to do like this.  But I feel like I played three, four, five years, very good level and I try to continue to -- next year, I try to do the same.
Q. Since we last spoke, Greg Vanney has stepped down as head coach at Toronto FC.  How did Greg help and improve your game in your two seasons working with him?
ALEJANDRO POZUELO:   Yeah, we know we have a very good relationship inside and outside.  This is good for me and for everybody.  We know Vanney is very good person, very good coach.  And he helped me a lot to play my high level.  We speak a lot of time after training, after the game.  I try to play my best level because he's very good guy.  He try to learn some more even between the line.  I try to play the right, No. 10, midfielder, I tried to adapt to the situation.
But I think the key in this team is because Vanney is the coach and he is very good coach, very good person, and he help me a lot and to win this MVP.  I also want to say thank you to the coach because he leave now and next year, we need to adapt to the other coach, but I want to say thank you -- that you for him, so I can win this trophy.
Q. When you hear as a player, when you hear the words "Most Valuable Player," what characteristics does a player need to have in your mind to be considered a Most Valuable Player?
ALEJANDRO POZUELO:   Yeah, I still don't believe it.  But it's true.  It's difficult because I'm very normal person, and when I speak with the players or with Alejandra, and she told me, you are ready -- what is the recognition to win this trophy. But like I say, I'm very normal and I don't know if I push to win the MVP to the MLS, but when -- maybe tomorrow, after tomorrow when I saw everybody in the press to speak, but maybe I can believe more.
But now, I still don't believe.  I am here in my house with my family, with my friend, to try to separate, but like I say, I'm very normal and I don't know, I honestly don't believe it.
Q. What does this award mean to you?  Can you put it into words?
ALEJANDRO POZUELO:   Sorry, I don't heard you.
Q. What does this award mean to you?
ALEJANDRO POZUELO:   It means a lot to me.  At this point I still don't believe I've won the award.  As I said before, I am a person that is very calm and I don't pay too much attention to what's going on around me, and we need this award a lot because it shows how important is Toronto, how important was the season.  And I'm very proud because this means a lot, and maybe tomorrow or the day after tomorrow when I start seeing more news, I will believe that I won this award but I am very proud to represent Toronto.  I know it's something easy to say, that I have won this award, but it's something that takes a lot of work to get here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT