AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2006
Sophie Ferguson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Never gets easier, does it, out there?
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  No, I think today Nadia played really well and didn't really do a lot wrong and didn't give me any free points.  So, yeah, it was a pretty tough match out there.  I guess she showed me why she's No. 6 in the world.  
 
Q.  Down two service breaks in the second set.  What were you telling yourself?  It was tough there.
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  Just trying to tell myself that it's never over, you've just got to hang in there.  I mean, you never know what can happen out there.  Just, yeah, hang in there and do what I could.  
 
Q.  Do you think you're a better player now than you were this time last year?
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  Yeah, I think so.  I think I've had 12 months of experience, 12 months of hard work and training.  Yeah, I think I'm improving every year.  
 
Q.  I think you said when the draw came out you took some confidence from that match last year.  At the start of this game, did you sense that maybe something was not quite right with your game?
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  No, not really.  I think she just sort of came out and didn't give me any free points, barely made any unforced errors.  Yeah, she was too tough today.  Played well.  
 
Q.  What is the rest of your program like? 
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  You mean for the rest of the year or this tournament?  
 
Q.  Are you playing doubles at all this tournament?
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  I'm playing doubles this tournament. 
 
Q.  Then?
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  I haven't organized my schedule.  I was just waiting to see what happened here.  I'll probably sit down and do that later in the week.  
 
Q.  Who is your partner here?
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  Christina Wheeler from Australia.  
 
Q.  Contrast from 12 months ago must be really stark.  Even though you lost that game against her last year, you would have felt emboldened by that performance.  Today you didn't play your best. 
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  Yeah, well, I think every day's a different day.  Last year I went out and, you know, had nothing to lose, played a good first set, then obviously fell away in the second two.  This year I think she just came out.  Maybe last year she was unsure of what I was going to be like and how I was going to play.  She had the unknown kind of factor.  But I think this year she knew what was coming.  She went out there and played well and was too tough today.  
 
Q.  You felt that sort of I don't know whether "pressure" is the right word, but going out with a different mindset than 12 months ago?
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  No, not necessarily.  I mean, I still obviously have nothing to lose.  I'm ranked, what, 250 and she's No. 6.  Yeah, just went out there and did what I could.  Yeah, as I said, she was too good.  
 
Q.  What are the goals for these 12 months?
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  Well, obviously the number one goal is to improve my ranking, yeah, to see how it goes.  Play some tournaments, yeah, obviously try and improve my ranking and get that up into the top hundred where you're main draw Grand Slams, start to get a few wins on the board.  
 
Q.  What do you think are some of the things that are missing from the game, in your own words?
 
SOPHIE FERGUSON:  Well, I think experience.  I mean, she's played a lot more matches than me, been around a lot longer.  That would be a factor.  I think probably I've still got to work a lot on my movement around the court.  And, yeah, just making my game I guess a bit more solid, not so many unforced errors.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT