UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 24, 2015
Tracy Claeys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What has (No microphone) been able to do?  The few times you've played them, you've come up with just enough.  I know so much of the game planning for them has been focused on running backs, but where does Stave's success come from?
COACH CLAEYS: Listen, in the past you have to concentrate on the running game.  They've got a Heisman Trophy candidate in the back field the last three years, I believe.  So that's where your attention goes.  You know you're going to give up a few play action passes.  You hope you don't give them up over the top.  That's where we've made mistakes.  Not staying over the tops of routes and getting them tackled.
But I think this style of offense that Paul's gone back to fits him a lot better than what Coach Andersen was doing with all the quarterback runs.  I think he manages the game much better from the pocket.  So he's played awfully well, and it will be a challenge.
Q. What do you think the bigger motivation is for the kids this week?  Is it the Axe?
COACH CLAEYS: There is no, to me, there is no comparison.  It's the rivalry game and getting the Axe.  No disrespect to the bowl but that's a side product to this.  I don't think you're respecting the tradition if you go and talk about the bowl games, because this Axe has been in play for a long time, and we haven't had it for a while.
So without a doubt, that is the No. 1 priority.  Our goal is to bring the Axe back to Minnesota, and then the bowl game would be a by product of that.
Q. How about for offensive lines, is their line as good as they've been in the past?
COACH CLAEYS: They've lost a couple kids, so run-wise, they're not doing as much run stuff.  I see all the time coaches do what their kids do well, and I think Paul has done a good job of that.  They're throwing the ball more because they don't have necessarily the Heisman candidate in the back field.  But they still run it awfully well and good enough to keep you honest.  But then he's added some passing game things to it that makes you play more balanced.
The thing you can't fall into is giving them a two-way go.  We still have to be able to stop the run and get them in throwing situations or we're going to be in trouble.  But, yeah, they're not as heavy run, but at the same time they're a lot better throwing the ball than what they've been.
Q. How about the receivers?
COACH CLAEYS: Do a good job of catching it.  I think the possession routes, they go up ask catch the ball and make the plays to keep the chains moving.  So it's a little bit more complicated in the passing game, little bit more passing routes.
The other difference is defensively Dave's been our defensive coordinator.  I think this is his third year.  They're more comfortable with the 50 defense, their kids are, they're playing a lot more of it.  Not as much four-man front.  Their kids are playing fast and they're doing a lot of studying and blitzing.
I think defensively for where they've lost some of the running game on offense, they've definitely picked up on how well they're playing on defense.
Q. Last year Erickson (No microphone) you guys.  How good is he and what makes him effective?
COACH CLAEYS: He's a good receiver.  He's tall.  He can throw the ball up to him on play-action passes.  We have to do a better job.  They're going to catch the ball.  The thing is tackling them as soon as they catch it and not giving up the big plays.  That will be the key.
Q. Do you expect any of the injured starters from Saturday back?
COACH CLAEYS: Not right now, no.
Q. I know that every year you do it on its own merits, but every year you come out of that Wisconsin game and not getting the Axe, does it increase the urgency?
COACH CLAEYS: Not really.  The day we show up on the game for the Axe and we play better for four quarters than Wisconsin does, we'll bring the Axe back home.  It's a very simple formula, it's hard to execute.
Q. This game has been so physical over the years.  You've both kind of come into this beat up.  How ready do you think this team is for that kind of brawl?
COACH CLAEYS: I tell you we've three pretty good brawls here.  This time in the rivalry there are a lot of the small aches and pains go away when it comes time to kicking off.  So both sides, I expect, will play very well.  Hopefully we can hang in there and make a game of it.  But I think our kids will answer the bell and be ready to go.
Q. With Matt having to do so much mixing and matching on the offensive line, how have you been impressed or looked at his body of work?
COACH CLAEYS: I think any time, the thing they've gotten good at it is they've helped the team is they've improved so much in the pass protection part to let Mitch throw the ball.  We've still had our problems running the ball here and there, but against Ohio State that had a little bit to do with who we were blocking.
But with the 50 front being different, a true three-man front is we have our challenges up front.  Because if we get in position to throw the ball, we do a lot of aggressive, different things out in 50 front, that will be the challenges.  We've got to be able to run the ball.  Like I say, he's done a good job up front with those kids, and hopefully we can be solid this week.
Q. A lot has been made over the protocol with the Axe and the end of the game the last two years.  What is your take on the best way to handle that?
COACH CLAEYS: Beyond believing in tradition, I've told you that all along, football traditionalist.  Before the game we'll make contact with them and make sure that's all worked out so we don't have any issues.  But whatever the tradition of the game is, I think you need to do the tradition of the game.  We'll get that worked out.  There won't be an issue.
Q. Last year Gary wanted it kind of hidden during much of the game, and they brought it to one of the end zones?
COACH CLAEYS: Gary is no longer in the Big 10.
Q. Coach Kill reportedly is going to be at the game.  What kind of impact will that have?
COACH CLAEYS: It will be good to see him.  He's going to participate in the Senior Day before the game, which he should.  He's the one who recruited those kids here and just had a lot to do with their development.  Obviously not just the kids, I think players and even the fans, it will be good for them to know.  For everything that he's done for here and how that all went down, I think it would be a very appreciative day for him to be here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT