ATP CUP
February 3, 2021
Alex De Minaur
John Millman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   A question to both of you.  I know a tough result, but great to see so many fans out, great atmosphere.  Can you talk about the experience of playing out there today?
 JOHN MILLMAN:   Yeah, look, I think that's what's great about this competition is that, especially in Australia, too, with such a diverse culture, obviously there's a lot of Greek supporters, especially here in Victoria, in Melbourne, and, yeah, it's what makes the competition unique and special.
 So really nice to play in front of a good-sized crowd.  I thought the atmosphere was really good.  Yeah, enjoyed the experience.
 Q. Alex, your thoughts on the match with Stefanos, a couple set points in the second, just didn't happen.
 ALEX de MINAUR:   Yep.  As you said, look, it was a close match.  I had my opportunities.  It was there to be taken.  I didn't feel like I played those points well.
 Look, it's a good level.  I'm happy with my level.  Now it's just about tweaking a couple of things going forward, and hopefully, you know, be ready for the Open.
 It was amazing to play in front of the home crowd, which is something I've definitely missed for a year now, and I'm looking forward to coming out at the Open and hopefully playing some of my best tennis there.
 Q. You just mentioned the word "tweaking."   What needs to be tweaked, if you're able to say?
 ALEX de MINAUR:   Look, I think it's a couple of things here and there.  I played some great tennis over these last couple days.  I think it's just a couple of points here and there which I need to tweak, I need to get in with a better mindset.
 Yeah, look, I've put in all the hard work, all the work during the preseason is done.  I'm hitting the ball great.  It's just about playing those big points a little bit better.  They'll eventually fall my way.
 Q. John, you were disappointed last night.  How you feeling tonight?
 JOHN MILLMAN:   Look, it was a better performance.  Obviously, you know, yesterday against Carreno Busta, he's one of the better players in the world.  How he went about 2020 was pretty impressive, especially after the COVID break.
 It was a different match.  Really happy to get another match under my belt.  And any win is a good win, especially early on in the season.
 I actually had a pretty tough match last year in the ATP Cup against Michail, so I was pretty happy to kind of be probably a little bit more of a professional performance, get through that, and get some time on the court.  It is nice, because you can train all you want, but until you get a couple of matches, you know, that's what helps you in the long run.
 Yeah, at the end of the day this is all about obviously we want to be winning our matches at the ATP Cup but we also want to be putting in good preparations for the Australian Open.  And, you know, I'm probably better for it now having had a couple of matches.
 Q. Obviously Greek tennis is all about Stefanos.  Did you know much about your opponent today?
 JOHN MILLMAN:   Yeah, well, I played him last year, didn't I?  Battled through six in the third last year, he played a pretty high level.  Probably knew a little bit more what to expect this time around.
 There's a different intensity also in the ATP Cup when you're playing for your country.  I think some of these guys have the ability to play probably above their level, because, you know, they get to play on a massive court in front of quite a vocal crowd, and especially here in Australia when you're Greek you normally have a fair bit of support too.  I was well aware of his level he could bring from a pretty competitive match last year.
 Yeah, I thought I was probably a little bit more prepared kind of mentally for this one than probably I was last year.  So yeah, I'm looking forward to actually getting out and watching the doubles now and seeing those two boys at it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT