BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
December 31, 2012
John Millman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. MILLMAN/D. Young
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It's a tough way it get into a tournament, but you must be thrilled to make it through.   
JOHN MILLMAN:   Yeah, I think this year has got to be one of the strongest year for the Brisbane International.   I know it doesn't have the biggest history yet.   I think the cut was 209, so I only actually just scraped in.   
To get through to the last round ‑‑ or to get through today ‑‑ I beat Bogomolov, Jr. yesterday and Donald Young today to get into the tournament.   Both them in 2012 were top 40 in the world, so I think I've got to be proud of my efforts.   
But the way I'm playing, I really can't be satisfied with just making tournament.   I would like to win a few more matches.  
   
 Q.   What sort of a springboard can the first tournament of the year give you if you perform well?   
JOHN MILLMAN:   I think for an Australian tennis player, one that's trying to work his way up the rankings, I think the Australian summer is probably the most exciting time.   It's great.   It's a great opportunity for Australians because it is the first tournament of the year, as well as the first slam of the year.   
So I think to really start off in a positive way is so important for every player, but especially one that's aspiring to get into the top 100, and that's definitely my aim.  
I've seen other players like Matty Ebden and Marinko Matosevic start off the year well in the last couple years.   You know, you just try and emulate that.   They kind of inspire you because you hit with these guys and they're very good players.  
But, you know, I think I getting the confidence and getting these wins like today kind of give you the confidence to succeed and get higher up the rankings.  
   
 Q.   Do you know who your first opponent will be?  
JOHN MILLMAN:   No.   There are a couple more qualifying matches.   I think two more on court now.   It'll be after that.   It's one of four players.   Obviously anyone who is playing main draw of this tournament is very good.  
Potentially Tatsuma Ito who I played three times in 2012.   I didn't get him, but the last time was 6 in the third and that was in Japan.   
Knowing my luck I'll probably draw him again.   I told him last time it will be fourth time lucky, so we'll see how it goes.  
I think regardless of who I play it's going to be a tough match.   They've all been tough matches so far.   Pretty confident going into the next match.  
   
 Q.   Great support here, too.   
JOHN MILLMAN:   Yeah, I've been lucky enough to play on the show courts the last couple days, but understandably Florian Mayer and Giraldo got it.   I was out on the hill, but they crammed onto that hill.   
It's a massive advantage.   For 50 weeks of year you don't have that, so got to make the most of it while you're here.   I'm lucky to have such a good support base in Brisbane of.   I'm really happy to be playing here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT