AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2020
John Millman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. FEDERER/J. Millman   
4-6, 7-6, 6-4, 4-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Your emotions?  
JOHN MILLMAN: Yeah, disappointed. Left it all out there. Didn't win.   
 Q.  What did Roger say, what did you say to each other at the net? Can you remember?  
JOHN MILLMAN: To be honest with you, I'm not trying to stonewall you here, I actually don't remember. Yeah. I was pretty gone with it. I just don't remember, mate. I'm not trying to be a prick. Yeah.   
 Q.  In the last tiebreak, 8-4 up, just talk us through, what do you think just happened? Do you think you just got a little bit...  
JOHN MILLMAN: Not really. If you watched to get up to 8-4 I think I hit a running forehand line pass, a running forehand cross pass, a stop volley that I was probably dead to rights to make. Then Roger made it tough. I don't know.   
That's what the best players I guess do. You know, we had, what, 10-, 15-ball exchanges when I had my service points and sometimes -- we were serving pretty well.   
I'll have to go back and watch it. But, yeah, I mean, if you engaged in 10-, 20-ball exchanges, you ticked a few boxes, you know.   
It's not as if it was double faults or first-ball errors. I went after it. At 8-All, I had a chance, he played a pretty good volley, I'm running full tilt. Missed one line. Again, that would have been a pretty good pass.   
Then I played a great point I think at 8-9 and he picks the right way. What do you do, you know?   
I mean, I reckon there will be some people -- you'll cop it, I know I'll cop it about that. But, I don't know, I think when you understand tennis and stuff, I don't think there was a whole lot wrong.   
You know, my friends and family and my support team, they'll have my back on that one.   
 Q.  Is that how you'll also feel about it, that you didn't really do much wrong?  
JOHN MILLMAN: Yeah, but it still hurts, to be honest with you, yeah. Probably rather lose it like 10-5 or something. Obviously would have been great to have served an ace and have a few matches and put it to bed.   
It didn't happen. You know, shit, I played some all right tennis to get there, to that stage. I could have gone away easily in that fourth set. Roger was playing pretty well. Had the momentum. I thought I turned it around pretty well.   
Yeah, left everything out there.   
 Q.  Can you speak about how the crowd has been in general the past few days? You've had so much support.  
JOHN MILLMAN: Yeah, I love the support. Roger probably had a little bit more tonight. There was a guy trying to heckle me, calling me a few things, and then I called him something back.   
Yeah, I love playing in Australia. We don't get to do it too much. Puts us at a real disadvantage throughout the year that we don't get to play too much in Australia. I think Australians are at a disadvantage because of that. I try to make the most of it when I'm back here.   
Very grateful that everyone stayed and watched the battle and, you know, some of them got behind me (smiling).   
 Q.  Level-wise, how would that one compare with the New York match?  
JOHN MILLMAN: Yeah, I don't know, mate. Yeah, I mean, I thought it was a pretty good level. I don't know. You guys probably watched both of them and can probably -- yeah, I don't know. I thought it was a pretty good level. I don't know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT