NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2012
Tyler Zeller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Statements and feelings about the whole Draft process and such?
TYLER ZELLER:   Very excited to go to Cleveland.   I think it's a great opportunity to be able to play.   I know that there's great opportunity for playing time, as well as learning from all of the guys and the coaching staff.   I think it's a great honor to be able to go there and I really look forward to getting there tomorrow and meeting everybody. 

Q.   Looks like the center position is open, wide open, so talk about how you are looking forward to that opportunity to be able to possibly start on opening night. 
TYLER ZELLER:   It's a great opportunity.   Any time you play in the NBA, let alone play on a team and be able to start is a great opportunity.   It's something I know I'm going to have to work for.   There's some great players already on the team and I know that I'm going to have to go in and just try to compete as much as possible. 

Q.   I had a great opportunity to meet your mom just a minute ago; tell us about the opportunity to be here.   You've got Kentucky, North Carolina, Kentucky, North Carolina.   I guess you went out because you had four in the first round‑‑
TYLER ZELLER:   That's what I like to think. 

Q.   Is that what that means to you?
TYLER ZELLER:   It's a great honor to be able to play with all of those guys.   They are fantastic players.   I know Kendall, John and Harrison were fantastic players, fantastic teammates, and I really looking forward to watching their progress at the next level.

Q.   Your mom expressed a great excitement of going to Cleveland.   What do you know about Cleveland, if anything? 
TYLER ZELLER:   I don't know much.   But I do know that I'm from Indiana, I'm from the Midwest.   So it can't be that different, right?   I don't know, I've never been there, so I don't know much about it but I know I can handle the winter.
As far as the team, I know Kyrie came over and played with us last year multiple times.   I think it's going to be a fun team to play with.   I think that we are definitely going to get up and down and I love that kind of play. 

Q.   What's the thought process, here you're picked by Dallas, obviously you want it, you're a Green Room kid, and then all of a sudden a team trades three picks to get you. 
TYLER ZELLER:   I would like to think I'm as good as three players, but I don't know if that's true.   But it's something‑‑ I actually knew that I was being traded as I went up on stage, my agent told me about 30 seconds before the pick was made that there had been a trade made. 

Q.   Your uncle, Al Eberhard was drafted in the first round in the '70s.   Did you speak to him?   Is it crazy you were drafted around the same time?
TYLER ZELLER:   Yeah, he got picked 13‑‑ the Internet says he got picked 15, we tease him about that.   That's something that we have a good time with.   He played for Detroit.   He was hoping I went there but it didn't work out with it, but it should be fun.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT