JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2019
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I would say that was an effective moving day for you.  
BILL HAAS: Yeah, it was a nice day.  Just with no -- bogey-free card, those are the ones you like.  I was able to hit a couple shots close and made a couple nice putts, a long putt at No. 3, the par-3, and a long putt for par at 12, the par-3.  Without those, it's a different day maybe.  Hopefully that's just a sign.  Things like that happen on weeks that you win.  You make putts that normally you don't, and hopefully we'll have a week like that and do it again tomorrow.   
 Q.  You talked about how important confidence is out here.  When you back up a good start with a round like this, how much does that help you?  
BILL HAAS: It definitely helps you.  Today was a day where I had to prove to myself that I could do it after two good days, and I have to somewhat rely on I've done it before.  I've had good Sundays.  I've had good Saturdays.  Even though I haven't done it lately, I certainly -- I have to tee it up tomorrow with that mentality, and if not, then I'm going to go the other way.  I'm going to be as positive as I can on the first tee tomorrow and just see what happens, do my best.   
 Q.  We sometimes see separation on a day like today.  We've got anything but today.  It's really bunched.  What does it take tomorrow?  
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I think if the weather stays like this with less wind, it's warm, the ball is going, the greens with the humidity are staying somewhat soft, you're still going to see some 5-, 6-, 7-unders.  And that will be impressive if the leaders do that.  But with that said, if the guy is two or three back, which is a lot of guys in that position, then the leaders are still going to have to shoot 4- or 5-under if they want to win.  Something in the 60s tomorrow and I think middle 60s is probably needed to win.   
 Q.  Nice to be in the mix here at TPC Deere Run.  How did you put three good rounds together?  
BILL HAAS: Today was a few nice putts, a good save at 12, the par-3 kind of kept my card bogey free.  Had a great playing partner, Bryce Garnett, is a good buddy.  Just watching him hit it the first two days, Vaughn Taylor, if I could hit it like him, I'm trying to imitate him out there.  Just trying to have good tempo and then make putts and give myself a chance.   
 Q.  This course is playing differently than it has in years past.  How different did it play for you?  
BILL HAAS: Yeah, usual we're used to some thunderstorms and soft conditions, and I would say the ball is running pretty good here.  I'm driving the ball a lot longer than I normally would.  And with that said, with the humidity the greens are staying somewhat soft, so they're receptive.  You give a lot of these guys short clubs in their hands with soft greens, you're going to see a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  It's been a mixed bag in terms of your finishes this season.  Where are things at with your game right now, mental side of things, all of that?  
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I mean, I think with this week, it's given me confidence that I can shoot a good score on a Saturday and wind it up on a Sunday.  Hasn't been my best golf.  I admit that freely, that just have not been sharp.  I've been working hard, probably working harder than I've ever worked at the game.  I'm telling myself that those results will come.  Hopefully they come tomorrow, being in this close a position to the lead, but if they don't, I've got to believe that this hard work is going to pay off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT