NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 15, 2013
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good couple of first days, in position at least through two rounds.   Just talk a little about the tournament so far?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, really just kind of hanging in there, ball‑striking on that back nine was actually terrible.   But chipped out of the trees on 12, got up‑and‑down from 120 yards.   18, I chipped in for par. 
So I would say 67 was about as good as I could shoot today.   So take that for what it's worth.   Hopefully tomorrow, correct some things and maybe do some good on the weekend.   Got good memories of this place.   I love seeing chips like that go in.   But obviously I feel like if I can ball strike it maybe a hair better on the weekend, maybe I can do something really good. 

Q.   Esoteric, best memory of golf so far for you? 
BILL HAAS:   Probably the FedExCup, TOUR Championship in Atlanta in 2011.

Q.   Inaudible. 
BILL HAAS:   My dad would always tell you, if you're not in that pairing, would you rather be in that pairing or would you rather be the last one off that's with the rookies, and not that there's anything wrong with being a rookie and all that stuff on TOUR.   But the point of what I'm saying, being with those guys means you're doing something good and just use that as a confidence booster. 
And also, playing with Phil, one of the best players to ever play the game.   So if anything, you just learn stuff when you're out there. 

Q.   Got to be good memories? 
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, I only played two holes with him last year in the playoff, so certainly neat to play with him but they are both great guys to play with and certainly very talented guys.   If anything, it just makes you want to measure your game to them and get better. 

Q.   What's it going to take the next couple of rounds to win this thing?
BILL HAAS:   The scoring seems to be a little better than the last few years.   It's supposed to be good weather.   If it stays like it is, then I would say around 12‑under.   I mean, the greens certainly get a little bumpier, a little firmer, and the pins get a little tougher. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT