HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 6, 2013
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What would you vote for? 
BILL HAAS:   I think everybody wants to play, but I think everybody wants it to be the person that plays the best that wins.   On the 10th hole, somebody might hit a putt, the same exact put and go up there a foot from the hole and that same exact put ten minutes later might blow off the green 30 yards and make triple and I just don't know if that's identifying the best player. 

Q.   We had the rare scenario when we started the first round of the Hyundai Tournament of Champions, some guys went out and they called play and they had to just revert back to zero, and we are almost in that exact same scenario now here a couple days later.   Do you think they ought to do the same thing if play does not continue this afternoon? 
BILL HAAS:   Seems like the fair thing to do, like I said, 10 through 14 were playing so difficult and there is a group yet to tee off‑‑ I was in the last group on 1 and we had not even putted out a hole yet.   I don't know if it's fair for those guys.
With that said, golf is not necessarily a fair sport.   You're battling the elements all the time.   So hopefully we get a decision made and we can just play golf or‑‑ I don't know what we'll do. 

Q.   We saw balls wobbling on tee boxes and moving on greens, for the average fan watching today, what's the most difficult aspect of competing at this level in conditions like this? 
BILL HAAS:   It makes you unbalanced.   You're used to the ball sitting there still and your being able to get in a stance and hit the shot. 
Certainly makes it much more difficult.   Anybody that goes out there and plays in 40‑mile‑an‑hour winds‑‑ probably nobody plays at home in 40‑mile‑an‑hour winds; why would you.   It's just very difficult.   Pretty self‑explanatory. 
And it's unfortunate because I think the fans back home were all calling us a bunch of wusses and why aren't you playing.     Well, it's not our decision; it's the rules officials' decision and we are just doing what they say. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT