WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2012
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Interesting, nobody is going really low today.   What's making the course a little more difficult?  
BILL HAAS:   I don't know, I just don't think it's getting got right now.   I think it's certainly there.   By the end of the day, I think you'll see a 6‑ or 7‑under.   I certainly the first nine was very pleased to be 1‑over through nine.   Just wasn't hitting it in the fairway, and if you don't do that here, you can't play well.   
The back nine I hit some better drives and was able to take advantage.   Luckily my putter saved me a few times and got a few coming in.  
   
 Q.   Big stretch of golf here coming up for you.   Just talk about the next five, six weeks and starting with today.   
BILL HAAS:   I think my goal is just to stay patient.   I'm going to shoot some good scores.   I think I might shoot some that I don't like, but this is a big stretch of golf, and one day is certainly not going to make it a bad stretch.   I've just got to‑‑ this is crunch time.   This is a time when‑‑ it's the reason we play all year, to get to this point and put yourself in a position to do something really good.   I'm somewhat there, I just‑‑ I feel like I could do a lot of good these next couple weeks before the FedExCup.  
   
 Q.   Have you played at all the Ocean Course?   How much experience do you have there?  
BILL HAAS:   I've only watched the Senior PGA there.   I've actually never played it.   
I mean, it's about as far from my house at home as you can get in South Carolina.   It's not really a place you just go practice golf.   It's a good haul down there, about a four‑hour drive.   I haven't been down there much.   I've played on Kiawah.   I played the State Am at the River Course, I played the Palmer Cup at Cacique, so I've played some tournament golf on the island, which in a sense I don't think that can hurt, just being down there, the grass, the wind and all that stuff you get on those courses.  
I'm looking forward to it.   I like playing down at the beach.   We have a beach house in the north part of the state on the coast, and I enjoy going down there, so I think I'm just looking forward to renting a house and enjoying the week.  
   
 Q.   What were your impressions when you did watch the Senior PGA there?   
BILL HAAS:   I remember thinking it was tough.   I thought the scores were better there than what they should have been.   Granted, I don't remember them having that much wind, but enough.   But I remember my dad played pretty well.   I remember ball‑striking it very well to shoot what he shot.   So I think that's going to kind of be the key next week.  
   
 Q.   So you're not really worried about getting there ahead of time and seeing what's going on?   Does it help at all to have grown up playing South Carolina golf?  
BILL HAAS:   Well, the course I grew up on had bent greens.   
   
 Q.   So not much?  
BILL HAAS:   No, I think what I grew up on does not help.   But we play enough golf, we adapt to each green as it is, and I think the‑‑ I don't think‑‑ if you go and play well in a major, your preparation maybe makes you more comfortable out there, but playing well is the reason you do well.   If you play poorly, no amount of preparation is going to save you that many shots in my opinion.   Does that make sense?   
   
 Q.   Yes, it does.   
BILL HAAS:   If I go play 10 rounds before and go down there and miss fairways and hit it in the water and all that stuff, preparation doesn't do nothing for me.   You just have to execute golf shots.   I'll be down there Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday getting as much information on the course as I can, and from there I think I've just got to execute.  
   
 Q.   What are you doing well right now?   Because 67 is a pretty good score out here.   
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, today I just kind of hung in there.   I hit some foul balls early that I was able to get away with.   And then the back nine‑‑ if I had a 10‑footer for birdie, I made it, and if I had a 30‑footer, I lagged it up there nice.   I made a nice par save at 1, driving it in the right junk, and I chipped it out and pitched it up there.   I did the little things well today.   I certainly wasn't on top of my game.   So I'm very pleased with 3‑under.   But I am planning on hitting some balls, and I would love for it to be an easier 67 than it was.  
   
 Q.   Do you like to play the week before a major?   
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, I think so.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT