WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2012
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Bill Haas into the interview room here at the Wells Fargo Championship, defending FedExCup champion making his ninth start at this tournament.   Talk about being back. 
BILL HAAS:   It's always great to be back here in Charlotte.   I was born here, only lived a few years here of my life, but I still feel like it's coming home, I guess, even though I consider home Greenville, South Carolina, just down the road.   We all call that little Charlotte, kind of a small, clean city, and just love coming back here.   Got a lot of friends here.   Wake Forest is just up the road, and just recognize a lot of people, Johnny Harris, being a good family friend of the Haases, and he always treats everybody great here, and a fun event.   I'm probably saying what everybody else says who enjoys coming here.
JOHN BUSH:   You won earlier this year at Riviera.   Just recap the year for us if you can. 
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, started off nice with that win really and one then other top 10 before that in San Diego, and since then it's been kind of a‑‑ it's been not as much fun.   But I feel like I'm close a lot, a lot of the weeks, just trying to get it all clicking the right week, and this would be a great week for it to start. 

Q.   You mentioned the other day you caddied for your brother in the Monday qualifier.   Does that help you?   Was it fun? 
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, it was fun.   He's been working for me, and it's something I think he enjoys doing, but he also likes to play, and I know he has the itch.   Every time he's out here he thinks he can play with all these guys out here. 
I guess it was somewhat me returning the favor, but also I just kind of wanted to do it because I think he's got the talent.   Unfortunately he's just been working so much for me he hasn't had time to practice.   He went out there and hadn't hit a ball in a month and a half and shot 71.   He's got the talent, he's just ‑‑ I was really wanting him to get in the field, and it would have been an issue for me with a caddie, but I was hoping he'd get in.   Just thought maybe I could shot him a shot or two.

Q.   Who's more expensive, you or him?
BILL HAAS:   I am.   He doesn't pay much. 

Q.   The last five weeks, has there been any one part of your game that hasn't been quite up to snuff? 
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, I think the end of last year and the beginning of this year, my chipping and pitching around the greens was just excellent.   It was an A+ if I'm grading myself.   That seems to have tapered off, and a lot of that is maybe putting, too.   I'm not quite making those five‑footers.   You make every five‑footer, you say you're chipping real good, and if you miss all those, you say you're chipping bad.   So it's all short game issues. 
Certainly you're always tinkering with the swing trying to perfect it, trying to make it more consistent and I'm doing that, also.   But if you're saving shots, it's easy to say you're playing well, and if you're not making any putts it's still easy to blame everything on the rest of your game. 
I'm very close, not far off, but certainly the last five weeks, Augusta especially, Hilton Head, missing the cut there, I didn't feel like I played that poorly at either one, and just didn't quite get it done.   And that's the frustrating part of the game, but I also know that I'm always so close, and this is certainly a week I feel comfortable, so hopefully just having that comfort feeling around here might help turn that around. 

Q.   You had a chance to play 17 from the new tee today.   What are your thoughts on the change and the fact they might be flipping back and forth during the tournament?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, I played a decent number of rounds out here even before when I was younger, and that was where I always played from, and I think that was the way the hole was designed.   I mean, that was.   That's the old tee box, and then they've made that new one.   I think the new tee is great, also, it's just definitely harder. 
But I still think ‑‑ today I hit 5‑iron into the wind all over water.   If you pull it you're in the water, and if you push it you still have the same shot.   I just think it helps receive a shot a little bit better than from the right.   It's still a difficult hole.   You're still going to see 4s and 5s there but maybe you'll see one or two more birdies.   And then on Sunday with that back pin, I don't know if they'll put it back there, but if there's a back pin, maybe you'll see a few more close shots which maybe adds to the excitement because you've certainly got all you can handle on 18. 
JOHN BUSH:   Bill, we appreciate your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT