MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Three birdies on the front side.   You had it going for a little bit. 
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, bogey at 1 is tough, but it's a tough hole.   I three‑putted 5 from 15 feet to go 2‑over, so obviously was going the wrong direction.   But then made a nice putt at 6, made a nice putt at 8, and all of a sudden I made three putts there at 6, 7 and 9 to get to 1‑under par thinking the back nine you can kind of get it if you hit some good shots.   Disappointing to not make a birdie on the back nine, but overall pleased.   I made a six‑footer at the last for par to keep me in there. 

Q.   Did the wind affect you on the back side?
BILL HAAS:   A little bit.   There's certainly a little breeze, but it isn't much.   This is certainly very playable.   More than anything you're not getting any roll in the fairways and you're picking up a decent amount of mud.   I don't want to say I was getting a lot of mud balls because it could be worse.   The fairways are exceptional for how much rain they've gotten.   But there was a couple‑‑ No.7, the hole up the hill, I hit a nice shot that went 40 feet right, just little things like that that are just making it play trickier.   Obviously Henrik is playing very well, but it's tough.   You've got to get some good breaks and also make your putts.

Q.   Do you feel a lot more comfortable your third Masters now that you've been through two of them, and does it feel a little better for you this year?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, a little bit.   I remember feeling pretty good even my first one.   I think being comfortable on these grounds, watching my dad so many years and feeling like I can compete here if I do the right thing.   You've got to make some tough putts.   You've got to grind it‑‑ dig down deep and make putts that maybe you wouldn't make any other week.   You've got to grind it a little bit more here.

Q.   The FedEx Championship and then winning earlier this year, do those things also factor into your confidence coming here this year?
BILL HAAS:   Maybe a little bit.   Maybe that sense of I was 2‑over through 5 and maybe that little bit of confidence knowing that, hey, the tournament is not over with.   I was on the cut line with six holes to go at LA and ended up winning.   If you just have a good little run, which I did in the middle of the round, and if I could have kept that going, it could have been a great round. 
But yeah, I think for that reason in itself, it relaxes you and says to you, hang in there, you're going to hit a good golf shot, just keep plugging.

Q.   Do you think young players have an advantage here because of the length and maybe some of the pin placements, that kind of thing? 
BILL HAAS:   Long hitters have an advantage.   I don't know if that has anything to do with young.   Obviously there's a lot of young players that hit it a long way.   But obviously with pin placements, they don't know them maybe as much as an older guy.   I saw Scott Verplank was 3‑under through 7 earlier.   He's obviously short and maybe using his savvy and using his experience to get him around.   I don't know if there's ever been a rookie to win the Masters, has there?   Fuzzy was a rookie?   Okay, so there's been one, but there hasn't been many first‑timers here, young guys win, because I think it takes a little bit of experience, and it does help here.

Q.   Do you feel like you're right there, even though you've gone through one round?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, there's so much golf left.   I mean, even if I was 4‑over I'd say that I had time to make that up.   I didn't necessarily lose the golf tournament today with a big number.   I think I just kind of kept myself in the mix.   I'm going to need something in the 60s, and I still haven't broken 70 around this place.   Something in the 60s this week is something I'm planning on doing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT