FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2012
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I know it wasn't your best stuff today, but the top players that's what they do.   They get around.   This is a tough golf course, and to shoot 2‑under par firing on about six cylinders, you have to be pretty happy with that?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, absolutely.   I felt like I was hitting it okay early, and then late, I don't know what was going on there.   Just did not feel comfortable with my golf swing, and it showed. 
But I'm very happy to shoot 70, but if that continues, it will be a long day tomorrow, I think.   I think we'll go work on it a little bit, and it could be one more thing.   It's never far off from being good, and it's never far off from being bad.   But hopefully we'll figure something out and do a little better tomorrow.

Q.   How many times have you had two bad days in a row?   You've got to like your chances of playing pretty solid tomorrow. 
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, I think so.   Yesterday I actually ball struck it nice.   To shoot 71 was the highest I could have shot yesterday.   So today was the first day of being uncomfortable. 
So I know it's not far off.   Thursday and Friday I felt pretty good.   So, lucky to shoot 70.   I'd take advantage of that tomorrow.

Q.   How are the greens?   The balls seem to be bouncing a little more today.   Have they gotten better from yesterday's round or about the same? 
BILL HAAS:   They're about the same.   Late in the day after the whole field has walked on them, you can't help but make a footprint.   You're going to putt through spike marks, you're going to putt through heel prints, and there have been a couple putts that looked like they were going in that didn't and it's probably because of the greens. 
But I can't complain about my putting.   It saved me a few times.   Obviously, there are a lot of people under par.   So I feel like they're rolling about as good as I've seen them in years.

Q.   I see something in the 60's in your future.   Good playing and way to hang in there today. 
BILL HAAS:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT