BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2011
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good round today, a little trouble at 16, but I think all in all a good day. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, today was tricky. The wind was up a little bit. But like you said, to get it to 4-under, 10-under total with four to go with that par-5, 15, to play, seemed like I could get that one in. To make double on 16 stings a little bit. But a nice save at 18, overall can't be too disappointed. I've got a chance to do something really good tomorrow.

 Q. 5-under on the par-5s this week, pretty good strategy for you?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, everyone thinks you should take advantage of the par-5s, and that helps. The par-3s, the first day I played them 4-over, and since then I think I've played them 4-under, so that's a big deal for me. I think if I can play the par-3s well, then I think I can score out here.

 Q. Right now it looks like you're going to Atlanta, but tomorrow is a big day. There's a lot on the line for you tomorrow?
 BILL HAAS: Sure, yeah, I wish you wouldn't have said that. Obviously I'd have to shoot a really poor number tomorrow for that to be an issue. But I have a sour taste in my mouth after last year finishing 31st, and in the back of your head nothing is safe. These closing holes are very difficult. You can make anything, as I proved today, making 6 on 16. Tomorrow I'm just going to go out and try to play solid golf and not care so much about what the lead is doing, just if I can shoot a decent number then a lot of stuff will fall into place. 

 Q. Is it hard to put stuff out of your mind? There's more than a golf tournament obviously on the line. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, obviously there's things to play for, but there's things to play for every day, and I think just when it comes down to crunch time here, every shot counts. That's just what I'm telling myself out there when it's not going well, that if I can save one shot here or one shot there, then that might end up helping me somewhere down the line. Just trying to stay patient. The 6 on 16 stings a little bit, but I did plenty of good out there that I can rely on for tomorrow.

 Q. You alluded a minute ago to last year missing by one spot. What were the circumstances? Did you not play well on Sunday here? 
 BILL HAAS: I don't think I shot -- I think I shot 72 or 73. I finished middle of the pack. I needed a good week. I was maybe 28th or 29th going into the week and kind of hung around, hung around, and ended up coming off the last hole, I made par, made a nice putt from the fringe for par, but then I was at the mercy of what everybody else was doing, and you can only do as much as you can do. 
 I bogeyed 17 last year coming down, so I remember that. But I made a nice par save on 18, so I felt like I did what I needed to do there, and it just didn't work out. It's just crazy how it can come down to one shot. One shot last year I would have been in the TOUR Championship, and hopefully that's not the case tomorrow.

 Q. Were you at the computer looking at it the whole rest of the day when you got in?
 BILL HAAS: I remember watching it on the clubhouse here and we were watching it on TV, and they kept doing the projected, and when I finished I was in, and then when it came down to the end people missed putts or made putts and they made other people get more points. That's a tough thing to happen, too. It wouldn't have been tough if I was 50th. It's a bittersweet place to be.

 Q. What about The Presidents Cup? Where is that in all this?
 BILL HAAS: Well, it is what it is. I want to make the team. I think if I play well tomorrow, I think points-wise I might be able to sneak in there. I have a chance anyway. If I don't play well tomorrow, then it is what it is. There's a lot of guys that are outside the number that have really had strong years that could easily get picked ahead of me, and I'm okay with that because American players are playing great, and I pull for the team. I obviously want to be on it, but I want to make the team on points. 

 Q. Is it hard to look at the board?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, but today I never once thought about the Presidents Cup. It's nothing I can control other than if I play poorly I won't make the team probably, and if I play well tomorrow I have a good shot. Just trying to take it -- this tournament is a big deal. If I came here and played really poorly, I had a chance not to make the TOUR Championship, and that was one of my goals. If I can play decent tomorrow and then really play well in the TOUR Championship, then I won't care about The Presidents Cup. I want to be on the team. It's in the back of my head if I can really finish strong here and have a good week this week I might have a chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT