WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2017
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk us through your round.
BILL HAAS: A long day, I was one of first tee times this morning.  Played pretty solid this morning, didn't give KT much.  He was kind of in a driver's seat.  Even if he lost, he knew he was going to be in a playoff.  I needed to play my way into that playoff.  I was grinding, and then I had a two-hour wait.  The playoff certainly wasn't pretty.  I got lucky and chipped in on the second hole for par just to move on.  Went all the way to six holes.  Finally made a birdie to win on the sixth playoff hole.
Q. How weird is it that you finish your match and then you have to wait to go back out to play the same guy?
BILL HAAS: It is weird.  In a perfect world maybe we would have some playoff holes that we could go play to get off the course.  There is really nowhere for that to happen.  There's two hours of tee times after we finish.  So those guys had to tee off.  Just part of it.  That was the way the draw was.  If we had played late today, and we had a playoff then we would just keep going.  Just kind of how our tee times fell and everything.  Certainly wasn't fun.  I rather been eating lunch and knew I was going on tomorrow anyway.  Just got to go with what you have got.
Q. What did you do for the two hours?
BILL HAAS: Just had lunch and then rewarmed up.  You warm up like it's going to be an 18-hole match, I guess, and it took six.  I needed that warmup.
Q. (No microphone)?
BILL HAAS: Yeah, that was fortunate to be able to drop down there near the green kind of after a bad second shot.  Then he had about 15 feet for birdie.  I needed to make it or at least hit it close and make him two-putt to win the match.  For it to keep rolling and trickling just barely over the front lip, that was pretty sweet.
Q. Kevin Na tomorrow.  What kind of match do you expect out of Kevin?
BILL HAAS: He's one of those guys that doesn't shoot a bad score.  You don't see many high numbers from him.  I would expect him to shot 3, 4, 5-under.  In order for me to beat him, I'm going to have to play solid.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT