THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 31, 2011
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Got to be fairly good emotions for you right now. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, a little bit. Definitely disappointed. Hats off to Scott, though. He hit a real nice shot in there on 18, and that was a tricky four- or five-footer there and he made it right in the middle. 
 I'm definitely disappointed, but he won it.

 Q. How fine a line is it? You've been on both sides.
 BILL HAAS: Right. Obviously one shot, very fine line. I got a nice break on 17 there in regulation where it stayed on the green in my bunker shot and was able to take advantage of that. It obviously bounces right. I wish it would have gone maybe even better during the week. 
 But I don't know. Like you said, bittersweet. There are some good things, but obviously disappointed. 

 Q. Bill, great tournament. Four birdies today; a lone bogey at 15. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, that was my loosest iron of the day I would say on 15. I hit the shot I wanted to hit. I was gonna draw it in there. Been hitting some nice draws all day. I don't think I started far enough right. I hit it solid, hit the shot I wanted to hit just didn't (indiscernible.) 
 And honestly, fortunately came away with a bogey there. Obviously was disappointed with the golf swing and the result here today, but I did a lot of good things and gave myself a shot on 18 in regulation and on 18 in the playoff. I just didn't make the putt.

 Q. Both of those putts at 18 were in the same place. The regulation shot on 18 was a little farther. A lot of players talked about how last year they have the greens in their memory and they've changed a little bit? Was that an issue? 
 BILL HAAS: I didn't play last year so I didn't have last year's thoughts in my head. But to hit the same shot I hit in regulation, basically to have almost an identical putt in the playoff, I couldn't ask for anything else. Obviously I would've liked it to be closer, but I knew what it was gonna do, and I just didn't start it far enough right. 
 It felt like I nice putt and maybe I pulled it, but disappointed that I didn't put a better roll on that one because I did know what was going to do. Just didn't trust it in the playoff.

 Q. Last question. When you're on the driving range with Bob Estes and you're practicing, what is your mental mindset?
 BILL HAAS: Well, I knew on 17, 18, and so I hit some 9-irons which I knew was going to hit on 18. Then I hit some drivers to warm up for the tee shot on 17. 
 It was more just to pass time until you go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT