WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2011
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Before we talk about the finish on 18, I did want to ask you about the birdie at 17. That was a heroic play.   
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, I didn't hit the shot I was trying to hit, but where that pin is, with all the trouble that's around there, that was a one in every ten shots somebody is going to get one back there like that. To do that and then to be able to make the six-footer after that was pretty cool, and I felt the crowd behind me somewhat. I don't know, more than anything I just wanted to make 4 on the last and make the guys at least earn it coming in. I know Lucas was maybe one ahead of that.   
 But I definitely was not going at that pin on 18. I pulled it, I was in between clubs and I hit the 6 instead of the 5, and I was trying to hit it a little hard maybe, and I just pulled it. It was just a bad shot. I think part of me was saying, don't bail out and miss this thing 20 yards right, either. I just wanted to hit a good shot in the middle of the green and give myself a chance, but didn't pull it off.  
  
  Q. Is that an indication of your maturity as a player, to keep that aggressive mindset right down to the end?  
 BILL HAAS: It might be a little bit. Like I said, I was trying to be aggressive to the middle of green, so I didn't necessarily pull off the shot. You've got to be aggressive to the smart play, and missing it in the water is obviously the wrong play. Even if I miss it right, I have a chance to maybe chip it in or at least maybe make 4. Pretty disappointed with that finish, but I got up-and-down for a 5. I didn't want to make 6, and you're always playing for something.   
 So pleased with -- if you would have told me I'd play the last three even par, I'm happy with that. Maybe even look back at playing 14 and 15, playing those 1-over, and those are two of our easiest holes. Not to blame it on that, but overall a good week.  
  
  Q. In the balance of things, you had a really good golf tournament.   
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, I appreciate it. I obviously would have liked one more round in the 60s after that 64, but four rounds under par, always good at any tournament.   
  
  Q. Not where you wanted to finish, but assess the round.   
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, the round was somewhat solid, maybe not 100 percent sharp, but I made a few putts that I needed to make to save pars maybe. I made a couple there, I made birdie at 10 and 11, was kind of feeling some momentum, hit a good one at 12 and missed that. Made a nice save at 13 and felt really good, and then coming into 14 and 15 knowing that those are two birdie holes and you've got to at least get one of them, and I didn't do that, and I played them 1-over actually. I bogeyed 14 with a three-putt.   
 I'll be kicking myself about 14 and 15, but I was proud of myself; I hit a nice iron in at 17 and made 2 there. Just didn't finish it off like a true champion, I guess.  
  
  Q. I heard you telling some people about the approach at 18. It wasn't that you were going for the pin where it was located but you pulled that shot?  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, if I'm in the middle of the fairway I don't think I'd go for that pin in my situation. If I was two back and definitely needed 3, then maybe. But I knew I was either one back or even after that birdie at 17, and honestly I was trying to be aggressive to the middle of the green. I didn't want to bail right. I just maybe got a little quick, and I pulled it. It was a bad shot, but overall not too disappointing.   
  
  Q. How much did you watch the leaderboard throughout the course of the day? Are you watching it that intent or are you more worried about your game?  
 BILL HAAS: Today actually I thought I did a good job. I was more concerned with my game. I thought 16-under at the beginning of the day could give me a chance, but then again, that would mean that the guys at 15 and 14 didn't have a good day. But I tried to do my part and get it to 16. Didn't quite get there. I was surprised after I birdied -- on 17 tee I looked over and saw the leaders were -- there was like maybe three at 14 at the time, and I was surprised to see that I was only one back. Like I said, seeing that and proud of the way I hit the shot at 17 to tie it up there, but then again, the leaders still had 14 and 15 to play, they were going to make birdies, I think Lucas maybe made a birdie, but I'm definitely pulling for the South Carolina guy in Lucas to maybe pull this thing out.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT