WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2011
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell me about the experience today because you played fantastic. You are making this look easy. 
 BILL HAAS: That is not true. I really putted well today. I made more putts today than I've made all year probably. Off the tee I didn't feel that comfortable. I probably only hit four fairways today, but the few that I shot I was scrambling out there and made some putts.

 Q. What was the 16th experience like? Unfortunately you had to go after Phil Mickelson. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, he's definitely the fan favorite but he was on the green and they booed him a little bit, and then I hit it deep 20 feet right of the hole and I got booed. So I guess they're seeing some good shots there today.

 Q. They saw a hole-in-one earlier today. Jarrod Lyle hit a hole-in-one. 
 BILL HAAS: I guess if it doesn't go in they boo you.

 Q. Tell me about overall your game; it seems like what you said, when you're not driving it well, you're putting it well; if you're driving it well, you're putting okay. Just everything seems to be going pretty good. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, today was a day when I did get a nice look at it, I made them, which is a nice feeling. The hole looked pretty big. I hit a nice shot into 18 to finish the day off. So yeah, everything feels good. I obviously would have liked to hit driver a little better so I'm going to go hit a few and try to figure that out, and hopefully this weekend will be really good.

 Q. What did you do yesterday?
 BILL HAAS: I didn't do much. We came out here, we hit a few balls just to practice, just to do something. But yeah, it was weird to have good weather and not be playing.

 Q. Who do you like for the Super Bowl?
 BILL HAAS: I think I like Green Bay. I think Aaron Rodgers is playing too good and the whole team seems to jell together too good.

 Q. Give me a score. 
 BILL HAAS: 27-24. 

 Q. Take us through your birdies if you can, please. 
 BILL HAAS: No. 2, I made a nice about a 20-footer there. 
 5, I made -- drove it in the rough, hit a nice shot on the green 20 feet, 15 feet, made that. 
 7, par-3 there, kind of hit a good shot but 30 feet right and made that. 
 Bogeyed 9. 
 10, drove it in the left rough, hit a nice wedge up there about 15 feet, made that.
 11, nice drive, nice 8-iron about 20 feet right, made that.
 17, hit a good drive but was kind of bailing right just because I knew you can't go left and hit a nice chip up there about three feet and made that.
 And then 18, I laid up with 3-wood off the tee. Just haven't been driving it good so that's not a tee you want to be driving it bad on so I hit 3-wood and 8-iron to about three feet at the last which was probably the best shot of the day.

 Q. Talk a little bit about your confidence level right now. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, it's up there, and today, like I said, I wasn't -- ball-striking wasn't as good as it's been, especially off the tee. Maybe I just had that confidence that you miss and it doesn't necessarily have to be perfect, just get it on the greens. These greens are really rolling nice, and if you hit a good putt they'll go in.

 Q. Have you ever gotten on a roll like this?
 BILL HAAS: This is probably some of my best golf. I really felt good going into Sunday last week and shot 75, so I'd argue that I'm not 100 percent sharp, just had some good finishes. But yeah, to come out after doing that and shoot a pair of 65s feels pretty good.

 Q. Coming back after that has got to be a big confidence boost. 
 BILL HAAS: And actually playing with Phil, he's a guy that you want to impress or play well with just because you know he's going to, and I didn't do that on Sunday, so it was nice to come out here and play well with him. You always like showing guys that are better than you or have been out here longer or have an unbelievable record, so just to play alongside of him was fun.

 Q. Did you talk to your dad after Sunday?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, he basically just said break off the rear view mirror; you can't do anything about that. It was still a decent week, and just keep doing what you're doing. Yeah, to be patient, you're not always going to play well, so just enjoy what you're doing.

 Q. I know you said you haven't been playing well consistently, but to the average person it sure looks like you have. How hard is it to maintain that? 
 BILL HAAS: I mean, it's hard, but like I said today, just starting off I think I made three putts over 20 feet today, and if you're doing that, then it takes a little pressure off your long game. Hopefully that keeps going, but I don't expect that to, so I've got to -- I need to drive it a little better, and it's close. I really did hit some nice ones out there, too, but it wasn't quite sharp today, and I was fortunate to shoot that number. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT