WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2011
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That was an impressive round out there today, 65. You made it look really easy. Did it feel easy to you?  
 BILL HAAS: The front nine, my back nine, I did play nice. I really started swinging well there. But I had a terrible warmup this morning, was frustrated. I think I'm getting a little maybe -- was getting tired, but I had a nice two days off here since we didn't get to play the first couple days due to frost. But kind of got lucky on the back nine, was able to hold it in there and played nice coming in.  
  
  Q. Obviously last year was a huge year for you. You picked up two victories last year. What's the difference between Bill Haas last year and now versus when you first got on TOUR?  
 BILL HAAS: I don't know. The second win was huge in the Fall Series. The Fall Series has been big to me. I've kept my card in that Fall Series a couple times, and winning a second time last year really boosted my confidence. I didn't quite finish off last year in the FedExCup like I wanted. Finished that off nicely, and I'm riding that confidence right now and striking the ball pretty decent.  
  
  Q. You've got some awfully strong coaches in your corner with Billy Harmon with his pedigree and background as well as your dad. You use them both. What do they mean to you and how are they different?  
 BILL HAAS: Well, your dad is your dad, and I think he's a guy I've always listened to. I've always -- maybe I've gotten a lesson here or there, but it kind of goes in one ear and out the other and I'll always go back and ask my dad what he thinks. A lot of what my dad says is through Billy Harmon just because that's who's taught him for such a long time. They're kind of one and the same. I think they have similar ideas. It's just what side of the coast I'm on, I can see either one of them.  
  
  Q. You've got a lot of momentum right now. What is going on for you?  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, the first few weeks I've really been driving the golf ball well. I didn't have the greatest warmups this morning, was struggling with the driver, and partner that with maybe a little rust. We didn't get to touch a club yesterday. The course closed. And this morning with it being cold maybe it took me a little longer to warm up.   
 But I really started driving it nice on the back nine. If you're in the fairway and you've got short irons in, you can score out here.  
  
  Q. What did you think of this marquee group, a little unfinished business from Torrey Pines?  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, I did not play like I'd like on Sunday last week and maybe a little bit of that was I wanted to come out and prove that I can play in this kind of group, at least better than I did on Sunday. I was pretty disappointed with that.  
 Just nice to get off to a good start. It's a long week ahead. I'm happy with where I am.   
  
  Q. Give me a pick and a score for the Super Bowl.   
 BILL HAAS: I'll go Green Bay, 27-24.   
  
  Q. A few comments on the day?   
 BILL HAAS: I feel fortunate honestly. I had a bad warmup this morning and maybe part of that was rust just from not getting to play yesterday, the course being closed, and was kind of struggling early. I was fortunate to be a couple under.  
 And then honestly the back nine I started playing nice. The back nine was pretty stress free.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)   
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, I mean, I will say -- I was confident, but then again, I told you I had a bad warmup and I was frustrated on the first tee today. Every day is a new day. Golf you just never know. But I feel very fortunate to shoot 6-under today. Even though I've been playing well, coming off that 75 at Torrey, this was a nice way to bounce back.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BILL HAAS: Sure, I think definitely there was a little bit more focus. Phil is a huge deal everywhere he goes, especially here. And Bubba coming off a win, obviously playing very well. I'm happy to be in that group, just happy to play well today and prove that I can play in that kind of group. But tomorrow will be another day, and it's going to be a long week just with the weather delays and all that.   
 It's early, but happy to shoot 6-under today.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BILL HAAS: Maybe. Like I said, I think I was a little rusty. That impacted me just having a tough start, tough to get going. It's cold. You've got four layers on. Phil was in short sleeves. I don't know how he was doing it because I don't think it was that warm out here. Better than it was this morning, but it's still pretty cold.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT