THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 6, 2010
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: Okay. I'd like to welcome Bill Haas to the McGladrey Classic. Bill, congratulations on your win last week, your second of the year, your first came at the Bob Hope Classic and then you got one last week at the Viking Classic. So if you would, kind of talk about the win and what it means to now follow that up with coming back to an area where, you know, kind of close to where you grew up, and then we'll take some questions.  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah. Last week was a pretty exciting week. I told myself I wanted to come out in the Fall Series and try to finish off a little better than I did in the Playoffs, and I didn't make the Top 30 for the TOUR Championship. So the little mini goal was Top 30 on the Money List.   
 And winning was definitely a surprise and a very welcome surprise in that that got me -- I'm 26. So hopefully I'll be able to hang on in the next few weeks out here.  
 MARK STEVENS: Yes. He's 26 on the Money List right now and Top 30 would qualify next year for the Masters and the U.S. Open. What's your plan the rest of the Fall Series to try and ensure that that stays that way?   
 BILL HAAS: Playing here, obviously, and then I'm kind of playing it by ear. I've committed to play in Malaysia and China, if I get into China. I'm kind of -- I'm the alternate for that week, but unfortunately if I play those two events, then it kind of cuts me out of a couple Fall Series events.   
 But just thought it was a good time to maybe try to do that and take advantage of those opportunities, and I may end up having -- if I don't play that great here, then maybe play Vegas because I think I can play that week. So maybe just one more after this.   
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Thank you. Questions?   
  
  Q. Bill, if you could, just talk a little bit about the course and just what kind of challenge you think it's going to pose this week.  
 BILL HAAS: Only thing I know is from what I've read. I've never played it. I didn't get down here till last night. I'm going to go play it in the Pro-Am here in a bit and hopefully be able to take it all in and be ready.   
 But sometimes, the positive spin on that is if you don't know there's trouble there, you're not nervous about hitting it in the water. So maybe not knowing, lack of knowledge might help me this week.   
 But just took a couple days off to rest and regroup after that win. And looking forward -- it's not really hometown. I mean it would be a six-and-a-half hour drive. But the fact that, you know, Davis lives down here, and I've known him for a long time, and Lucas and Charles and Jonathan Byrd and all these guys that I know pretty well from growing up all live down here and play out here that I felt like I, being from the South, feel like I'm somewhat involved. But excited about it.   
  
  Q. Some guys when they win one week, they have a hard time kind of bouncing back and winning the next week, you know, at a whole different place. How do you keep that momentum going, if at all?  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, you know, just winning out here I think is that difficult. There's so many guys -- every guy that's teeing up this week can win, and you really gotta be on your game to be able to do it twice in a row, and this is only my second try of doing that. And I made the cut after the win last time, and kind of just grinded it out and wasn't even close to winning, but just kind of want to do that again this week, go out and play solid golf, play four rounds and hopefully I'm there on Sunday.   
  
  Q. That was a Monday finish, though, at the Hope. You were really on fumes.   
 BILL HAAS: Yeah. Monday finish, and then you tee it up at one of the hardest courses on Torrey Pines next week, so it was a tough week. But you know, I've had two days to rest. I got no excuses. I'll be ready to go hopefully tomorrow morning.   
  
  Q. Bill, I'm working on a fitness story. How often do you use the trailers and what's your routine in there, and secondly, your perception of how much it's changed since your father was on the PGA TOUR?  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah. It's changed a lot, I think, but I think when he was out here towards the end of his career, he was one of the guys that used it -- one of the first guys that used it all the time. And then now it seems like everybody goes in there.   
 And I try to go in there as much as possible every morning and get stretched and just get loosened up because we do play so much and your body gets stiff, and you're on different beds every week, and your body can get pretty sore and over worked. So it's nice. I mean without those trailers, a lot of us wouldn't be able to go week to week.   
 MARK STEVENS: All right. Thanks a lot, Bill, and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT