THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2010
Jay Haas
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: At this time we'd like to welcome Bill and Jay Haas, the first father and son combination to play in THE PLAYERS Championship at the same time. We've had several other combinations but not in the same year. Jay got in by winning the Constellation Energy Senior Players Championship last year and he's playing in his 29th PLAYERS Championship. Bill is playing in his fourth PLAYERS Championship and Bill captured his first win earlier this year at the Bob Hope Classic. Congratulations to both of you on this week. I'm sure it's going to be a fun week. Maybe each of you could make some brief opening comments and we'll go into some questions. We'll start with Bill on the left.   
 BILL HAAS: Just comments about the week?   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Yeah, please.   
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, this is, I think, our 12th event maybe playing together on TOUR, something around that number. And this is definitely -- it's cool when you can play practice rounds together, talk about not just what he's doing out there on the Champions Tour or what I'm doing out here. It's nice to talk about the actual event we're playing together on this stage, this event.   
 Just to be here is cool, and to be able to do it with him, it's awesome.   
 JAY HAAS: Yeah, it's been a while since we've played in the same event. In probably '05, '06, we probably played in a dozen events together, and it never got old. I've missed that a little bit. We talk all the time and text, and to be out here and to watch him and how he's progressed is awfully special.   
 We played today with a couple of the Argentines and had a lot of fun doing that. But it's just -- it was something that I've been looking forward to since I won last fall and had forgotten that this was a perk of winning the Senior Players. I don't know if it's a perk or a punishment, however you look at it. It's an awfully long golf course and difficult and everything.   
 But I think the fact that I'm here and playing alongside Bill is something that -- one of my goals, I guess, is to try to play in the U.S. Open one more time and THE PLAYERS one more time and the PGA one more time and all that, to win those respective senior majors. But to be here, really neat stuff.   
  
  Q. Jay, you kind of had to warm up to this course. When you first played it --  
 JAY HAAS: It was very chilly, wasn't it, if you look at my stats.  
  
  Q. Yeah, what's the difference now?   
 JAY HAAS: I don't know. There for a long time, I just -- you could just pencil in MC for me on this tournament. I made one out of every 12 or something cuts here. But then I had a couple decent events. And then maybe '03 or something finished second. Is that right?   
 I don't know, I think I got to the -- I started to realize that maybe it was more important to put the ball in the fairway and not so much about distance and things like that. And just whatever it took to get the ball in play was maybe what I needed to do.   
 And just kind of learn the course a little bit more. I guess I just always got frustrated here. I'm not a terrific wind player, and it seemed like in March we always had heavy winds here.   
 This is not an advantage for me playing this time of year, but I don't mind that. I like it being hot and the ball running a little bit more and things like that. But I'm just amazed at the scores at this golf course, that the cut is even or 1-over par.   
 It's hard to fathom when I break down the golf course, I don't think it's that easy at all. Maybe my mindset is that it's a tough golf course and that's how I play it, I'd kind of respect it a little bit and don't try to put the pedal down too much.   
 But it's been a long time since '03. But I'm -- I had a good practice today and yesterday, so maybe things will go better.   
  
  Q. Do y'all have any bets for this week?   
 BILL HAAS: No. I hope we both tie for 1st.   
 JAY HAAS: We don't ever have any bets or -- I'm pulling for him, he's pulling for me. Never did say, well, I'll challenge you today or anything like that. A long time ago we used to go out and he was trying to beat me every time, which was good. But no bets this week. He feels sorry for me, I think.   
  
  Q. You picked a trio of players today. You didn't pick short hitters to play with today.   
 JAY HAAS: Wow, that was a bad mistake. Angel hits his hybrid club past my driver, and Bill is a solid 25 by me, and Angel is another 15 by Bill. And Andres is another 5 or 10 by Bill sometimes. You could tell the difference. If you had your eyes closed and you wondered which one was the 56-year-old guy, you could tell by the sound of the ball coming off the club.  
 But that's neat for me to see that and see how good these guys are. There were holes where Angel was 40 by me and then I hit the green and make a par, and he made a par. So that's the good part about golf is that it's not about the strongest and the fastest and all that stuff. I don't have to return his serves or anything. But I wouldn't mind being 40 yards longer.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Gentlemen, thank you. Best of luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT