MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (No microphone.)
 BILL HAAS: Really struck the ball well both days. I really did yesterday and made some good saves, but was pretty disappointed from even from where I drove the ball. 
 Even today I think 18 was probably the first fairway I missed all day. So when you're putting it in the fairway and today with it being a little softer I was able to get it up there a little further than some people. I'm very happy with 2-under, but I put myself in plenty of good spots to be able to do that.

 Q. You've played Majors before, is it going to be hard to attack this course on the weekends just because you haven't played that much here?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, absolutely. But if I keep driving it like I drove it, certain pins there's no reason to not be aggressive. And you have to, these guys are 9-under right now, I mean somebody's making birdies. And 2-under's great and I made the cut, but now I want to contend. I think I'm playing well enough to do that. 

 Q. What do you think it will take on the weekend from your position seven back?
 BILL HAAS: Seven back right now? Could be further by the end of the day. I don't know. I just want to keep playing well, go shoot, 3-, 4-under each day, I maybe have a shot, just depends on the conditions. If they stay like this, you can make birdies. 
 I think guys will continue, the guys that are playing well, can keep shooting 69, 68 out here, so it's going to take an unbelievable weekend to be right there at the end, but if I strike it well I think I could do something good.

 Q. How much tougher were the conditions today and how did yesterday's round and today's round compare in your mind?
 BILL HAAS: Oh, I personally thought yesterday was windier, but the ball was running further. Today the ball wasn't hardly running in the fairway so you had some longer irons into pins and there were a lot of them that were tucked. And if you didn't hit it five feet then you might end up 40 feet away. So some tough pins led to some tough scoring, but some guys are doing it.

 Q. Your round today compared to your round yesterday, which was better?
 BILL HAAS: Obviously today being two shots better, I didn't hit it in the water on 11, but still made five there, but I still picked up a shot from yesterday. So hopefully I'm hitting it in the fairway there on that hole, hopefully I can get that hole tomorrow. If you put it in the fairway you can make birdies out here.

 Q. Is it nice having your dad out there walking around every hole with you?
 BILL HAAS: Absolutely. I mean occasionally I'm in a certain spot, I'm kind of looking to him to see if he knows kind of where I am. And I made an unbelievable up-and-down on 14 from short, which was a tough spot and he's kind of giving me the sigh of relief sign, you know, just because he knows how tough that one was. And it's definitely nice having him and my whole family is out here.

 Q. Your family has a tradition here at the Masters. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, somewhat. My uncle, Bob won here, my dad's played 20 something odd Masters and I'm just happy -- two of my other uncles have played here also -- and I'm just happy to join the family legacy just to play here once and my next goal is to get back here again.

 Q. Talk about the eagle or 3 and 4 there. You had a pretty good stretch. 
 BILL HAAS: 3 and 4. No eagle today, unfortunately.

 Q. You chipped in?
 BILL HAAS: Chipped in, yeah. I hit a bad, I hit a good drive and it was kind of a funny yardage and just didn't hit a good second shot and it spun back off the green and had kind of a tricky shot, but it was kind of into the breeze so I was able to put some spin on it and I was just trying to get it close and luckily it went in. 

 Q. What about number 4?
 BILL HAAS: 4, that was great. I heard people say that's one of the hardest pins in any Major out here. Luckily they put the tee up for us, they were somewhat generous, but it was still a 6-iron shot and I hit about 20 feet behind the hole and made a nice putt there. 

 Q. What's been the best thing for two days now in your mind just the whole experience?
 BILL HAAS: I think so. You're renting a house, got family staying with you, friends here, and having everybody yelling at you, got a lot of Demon Deacon fans out here supporting yelling, "Go Deacs." It's just a great week, there's a lot of positive energy around this place. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT