MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about the round. Good start. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, got off to a good start, which is everything I could have hoped for, to be 2-under through 3, and I honestly hit a bad iron at 11 and a bad tee shot at 18, and that's really the only clubs I really felt like I really missed. 
 It could have been a little better, but I also made some good saves. I got up-and-down from 100 yards on 18 and I got up-and-down from 40 yards on 1. So those are two shots I saved, and I'm very pleased with even par. 

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 BILL HAAS: I don't think so. I mean, the ball moved. We determined as a group that I didn't fully address the ball, so there was no penalty. But the ball moved so I had to play it from where it was. But then I hit two perfect shots into 11. Maybe the three-putt there at 11 after what I thought were two perfect shots rattled me a little bit on 11, but I would have laughed if you would have said I'd hit it in the water at 11 today. It was a perfect drive in the middle of the fairway and you can miss right.

 Q. It's such a family tradition you have here. You finally got a round in here. What was it like for you?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, that was nice. Yeah, the first three days here are fun, but you're not putting the score on the card, and so you don't really know what it's going to be like. And then today is in my opinion pretty tough conditions. The wind is blowing, the greens are super fast, and you just can't miss certain shots in certain places. You've got to be not necessarily under the hole but just on the right side of pin placements, and if you're not, you're going to make bogey. That's all there is to it, unless the hole gets in the way.

 Q. What is your first memory of the Masters, by the way? 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, I remember going to the day care at the church across the street on Washington Road, just one day, and I remember telling my mom I never want to go to day care again. I didn't go to day care often, and this is one place I went.

 Q. How old were you?
 BILL HAAS: I had to be young, six, seven, maybe not even that old.

 Q. Any one piece of advice from any of the family members that have been out here before that stuck in your mind or gave you a little bit of pause today, how they told you to play a certain shot or anything?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, I think they just said you've got to hit good golf shots. This place doesn't allow you -- even though the fairways are somewhat wide, it doesn't allow you to miss shots. They just said be patient and hit when you're ready, and just make good golf swings, and I did for the most part today. I'm pretty pleased with it, but I think I can do better tomorrow.

 Q. Even par, do you feel like you're right in there?
 BILL HAAS: Absolutely, it doesn't shoot me out of the tournament by any means, but I mean, Tom Watson shooting 5-under is obviously doable. Obviously in the ball is in the right places you can make some putts, and you can do that, so hopefully I'll do that.

 Q. Did you enjoy the crowd?
 BILL HAAS: Absolutely. I've got a bunch of friends and family here, so it's nice to have them out here, and I like the crowd. If you can't get fired up to play in front of these people, this amount of people and your family and friends, then you shouldn't be playing.

 Q. How about the importance of making that great save on 18?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, absolutely. I said when I chipped out, I said, I really wanted to shoot even or better today, especially after I made two birdies on the back nine to get back to even. I hit a pretty good shot into 17 and missed, and downwind on 18 you can't really ask for a better wind for the shot, but I hit a bad tee ball. So to get up-and-down and shoot even feels very good. Feels like a birdie almost. 

 Q. Looks like you did a nice job of reading the greens. 
 BILL HAAS: Pretty good, yeah. There were a couple putts that maybe I didn't get started right. No. 1 was about a 10-footer, No. 4 about a 15-footer for par. Those were my two best putts of the day, and those are the things you have to do to shoot a good score around here.

 Q. On 12 it looked like you hit a perfect shot there and obviously it went over and you were in a little bit of disbelief?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, I think that had to do a little bit with 10 and 11, a three-putt and then hitting in the water at 11, and then I thought a hit a good shot at 12, and for it to go over was just another disappointing thing. I knew it wasn't bad there, but if I'm 15 feet left it's a birdie hole. So disappointed I didn't get it over there. But I'll take 3 on that hole all four days.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT