WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2010
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is there a point where you start to stop thinking about it and stop pressing for a moment?   
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, that kind of happened, only because I didn't think it was possible to come after -- if you had asked me after Hawaii, I shot 8-over in Hawaii and didn't really have it; and worked on a few things through Billy Harmon and my dad at the start of that week, and all it takes out here is one little thought that clicks, and it did that week.   
  
  Q. What was it?   
 BILL HAAS: Just a simple setup thing, the way I was setting up to the ball. Didn't change much on my swing but something that allowed me to be more aggressive through the ball and it was working, and it was working for five straight days. It was nice.   
  
  Q. How much different did it play today?  
 BILL HAAS: Didn't blow quite as hard. A little different direction. Instead of straight down the holes, they are a little cross; or straight in, they were a little cross, which helps.   
 But when I finished my 17th and 18th hole were straight downwind, it totally flipped with this storm coming in. And honestly it started raining and I didn't think we were going to finish on the 17th green, so got a little fortunate to play 18 downwind.   
  
  Q. Obviously that start, do you feel compelled that you have to take advantage right there when it's blowing that good that early in the day?  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, but it was still blowing, though. I still hit 7-iron into No. 1 as a par 5. It was still blowing 15 probably. Just yesterday it was blowing about 30 it seemed like. So maybe, I don't know, guys are used to it, but the scores are better today. I don't know, everybody is good out here.   
  
  Q. I know you don't set your schedule too far in advance, but would you be playing in Puerto Rico if you had not won?  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, I played México and I wasn't in the Match Play. I've played that one every year in the past and I've played Puerto Rico in the past. I might have gone. I was complaining about the wind earlier and how it's windy here, and I was like, well, I be could complaining about the wind in Puerto Rico.   
 This is nice. I feel fortunate to be here. I probably would be there. That tournament is a great tournament, and it needs all the players they can get down there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT