FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 27, 2010
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: We'd like to welcome Bill Haas to the interview room. Bill earlier this week became one of eight father-son combos in TOUR history with wins. If you'd talk a little bit about what it's been like since, in the two days since you won, and then talk about your mindset coming into this week. 
 BILL HAAS: It's been short-lived. Just to me now already the pro-am is over with, and tomorrow I tee it up again. I haven't had much time to rest. I feel a little tired. I actually played pretty well today in the pro-am, and the last few swings were starting to get a little loose and all that. 
 But I feel good, got the same swing thought working. I'm going to go with it. This course is totally different than last week. Got to make pars out here. Birdies were good last week, so a little different mentality, but overall I'm just trying to attack it like I did last week.

 Q. What kind of confidence does it give you now that you have that first win going into the next tournament? 
 BILL HAAS: There's definitely more confidence, and there's more -- I'm not going to say I'm more relaxed out there because I hit a bad shot on the first hole and I remember complaining about it. So it's like, golf will get you if you're grinding, no matter what happened last week. I'm trying to approach it like that. If I were to miss the cut last week, I would be trying to forget that and start over this week.
 Well, I love thinking about it, and I'm still -- I haven't slept but a total of four hours since, and it hasn't been because I've been partying. I've been excited and haven't gotten much rest since then. But I'll be focused out there trying to forget about next week and just know that everybody starts at even Thursday morning and go from there. But I'm definitely golf-wise more confident than I was before starting last week.

 Q. The guy you were playing with -- I saw on The Golf Channel, you said, "What do I do? I've never won before," after 18. Did you kind of figure it out after a little bit?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, I just kind of looked -- I tapped in, and they were all congratulating me, and I wanted to say good playing to them because both guys I played with played excellent. All of a sudden, I'm like, where am I supposed to go, do I sign my card or who do I talk to, I just don't know what to do. It's one of those things, even though I knew I had two putts to win, even when I tapped it in, I'm still like, what else can happen wrong here? Can I make another bogey after this 18th hole? I don't know, it was different feeling than I've ever had for sure.

 Q. How about winning the same tournament that your dad won?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, that was special. That was talked about before going into the last round a lot. A lot of guys said this would be great for you to win a father-son duo, and it is special. It'll be something we can look back years to come and both of our names will be on the list of past champions there. So that's pretty neat. 
 I wouldn't have cared if that win came anywhere whether he had won it or not, but I think that does make it a little more special.

 Q. This area got hit very hard with rain last week. Do you see signs of that out on the course?
 BILL HAAS: A little bit. I feel terrible for them, I see they've lost a bunch of trees. You see a lot of roots coming out of the ground, a lot of trunks, and that's terrible. But the course itself looks great. They did a great job. The fairways are perfect. You're getting no roll, it's going to play long and all that, but I don't think we'll have to play it up or anything. There's not much mud on the ball. 
 I think the weather is supposed to be good the rest of the week. The greens are soft, but they're usually pretty soft here. There's not much different there. It's going to play long, difficult. There will be guys every day that shoot probably 5- or 6-under, but I'd say the majority on the South Course, even or 1-under is a great score there, and hopefully get it on the North. 
 MARK STEVENS: Thanks a lot, Bill, and good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT