CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 12, 2009
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We're joined now by one of the players who's finished for the day, a 4-under par 68 on the Magnolia Course today for Bill Haas, who steps in and joins us for a couple of minutes. Bill, congratulations. Great round today. Tell us about it. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, thanks, guys. I played pretty solid, driving it pretty decent, what you gotta do around here. This Bermuda rough is pretty nasty. 
 And today was kind of cold and windy down here for Orlando, so anything in the 60s was good today, I think. 

 Q. Talk about the conditions, because you know, we're used to seeing 22, 23, even 25-under win this golf tournament. Doesn't really look like that's going to be the case this week. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, I hope not because I've always left this course scratching my head. I don't get how people shoot that low here, so I'm glad, I guess, the weather is rough, just because for me a 68, that's probably my best score here as a pro, I think. So I hadn't had the 22 expectation under par this week, just wanted to come finish the year off strong. 

 Q. Talk about the Fall Series. Obviously you didn't need to play. You had a couple of top -- well, three Top-25s, in the Playoffs, and you're still playing these days. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah. 

 Q. What's the decision there?
 BILL HAAS: The Fall Series, I was going to use that as a way to maybe win, for one thing, and also the Top 30 on the Money List gets into the Masters. And that was a lofty goal, but it was definitely a goal set starting the Playoffs, and then starting the Fall Series, but unfortunately we've had bad weather at Turning Stone, didn't shoot 30-under like they were shooting out of Vegas. And then Jackson, which is one of my favorite events out here, gets canceled, so it didn't work out the way I wanted, but like I said, I just basically want to finish the year off on a good note. 

 Q. Have you given your brother any advice? I know he's going through the Second Stage this coming week. Good playing to get through the first. 
 BILL HAAS: Absolutely. I was proud of him, but I don't know. I don't even know if that's my place still yet, being the younger brother. I'm sure he would welcome advice, but I don't think it's taken too greatly. 

 Q. Well, you can always talk about Wake Forest football. Oh, wait. How's that been going?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, not so great. How's East Carolina? They're all right this year, aren't they?

 Q. You know, you guys are playing us, you guys are starting your basketball season against us in the Greensboro Coliseum on Sunday. 
 BILL HAAS: Oh, nice. 

 Q. So you get to start out with a nice comfortable win. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah. I don't know, though. We got this one guy Al-Farouq Aminu who's pretty good. I don't know after that how deep we are, but we should be okay. It's just ACC is so tough to play in. 

 Q. Bill, I'm a Maryland Terrapin, so we just kind of disregard football season right now. It's onto basketball for all of us. 
 We're talking to Bill Haas who is near the top of the leaderboard, one back right now, 4-under par, 68 for Bill today at the Magnolia Golf Course. John was talking to you about the Fall Series, and you mentioned that goal, the initial goal, Top 30 at 63 on the Money List coming in, very important for you. Immediate goal I guess to stay in the Top 70 and get some of those invitationals as well. 
 BILL HAAS: Yeah. That's not that high on my list just because I think the FedExCup I think I finished 41st there and that gets me in the same amount of tournaments that Top 70 on the Money List would, so that wasn't necessarily that important. 
 But mainly I wanted to move up. This has been my best money year, and I'm still missing a lot of cuts, and just want to go out here and every event know that I can play solid and compete all four days.

 Q. You mentioned Mississippi was one of your favorite events, and we know what happened there, and unfortunately that whole event was canceled. From a player's perspective, how tough was that the last couple of weeks? You're gearing up for that event, you want to make a move on the Money List and make something happen and all of a sudden it gets washed out. How much did that throw you back?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, it's tough, and then the next week we had a week off, so it felt like the year was over almost. It was too bad for that tournament because that whole town, everybody in Jackson gets behind that event and they didn't need that to happen. 
 Fortunately for me it wasn't as big a deal as it is for some of these guys near the 125 and all, 150 and those numbers that need a couple of events here.

 Q. You've had four Top 10s this season, but 10 Top-25s and you mentioned that you missed a lot of cuts. You either seem to play your way into contention or unfortunately you've had some weekends off. Where's the mindset there? I mean and it doesn't look like there's any pattern, you play great one week, and then the next week it -- where are you looking for that consistency?
 BILL HAAS: You know, I think it's just -- and for me it's a little bit of nerves, honestly. I get just as nervous on Friday knowing that I'm one behind the cut than I do being -- it's the same feeling that I get when I'm one behind the lead, and I don't know if that's bad -- it is bad because I need to play the first shot on Thursday like it's the last shot and not put myself in that situation. And then when I do, I get nervous and sometimes -- you know, I miss more cuts by one shot, I think -- I mean everybody has. I don't want to act like I'm the only one doing that, but some of the weeks that I've played pretty solid, I'm still missing cuts I feel pretty good, but hopefully that'll change. 

 Q. That's interesting, and I know exactly what you're talking about. 
 BILL HAAS: Right. 

 Q. Because you know, you get to the last four or five holes and you know you need four or five pars, and you kind of -- your mindset changes, boy, if I could just make a birdie, I wouldn't have to worry about this. 
 BILL HAAS: Right. You get people on the ropes saying he's six behind, seven behind the leader, he shouldn't be nervous. Well, I mean we don't make the cut, we don't make money. I move back on the Money List. There's a lot to play for even though we're well behind the leaders. 

 Q. How much fun are you having now that you've got four full years on the PGA TOUR?
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, a lot of fun. I mean every -- we're on the chopping block every year, unless you're a Top 10 player in the world. If you don't perform, they don't care. They don't pay you and you don't get to play the next year. So just to stay out here and feel like I'm getting a little better every year has been fun to see some improvement. 

 Q. Well, Bill, we appreciate it. Great round of golf at 68 at the Mag. Go get them at the Palm on Friday. Thank you so much for your time and good luck this weekend. 
 BILL HAAS: Absolutely. Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT