WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2009
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You had it going this morning.  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah. Felt good.  
  
  Q. Talk about the streak, birdie streak.  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah, got off to a good start birdieing 12 which is a hard par 3 and then the next hole I made about a 30-footer to keep going and then the next hole I actually 3-putted from 60 feet.   
 So it wasn't an easy two-putt but then the next hole I knocked it on in two, par 5, two-putted for birdie. Next hole, par 3, hit it to four feet, made that.  
 Next hole hit a pitching wedge to about 8 feet and made that. 18, made a great par or save from about 15 feet. That was definitely nice to do that.  
  
  Q. Was this your best day?  
 BILL HAAS: Definitely my best day. Only other green I think I really missed was 9, I chipped in and then 18 -- felt like I hit a pretty good drive. Ended up being about a foot in the rough. On 18 if you're in the rough you're in trouble.  
  
  Q. What is it like to finish up -- I assume you'll be the first round leader, you get to enjoy it for an hour.  
 BILL HAAS: I think it's good. I don't have time to get nervous about it. It's only the first round, so much golf to be played, and I'm going to go out in the next round and try to keep it going.   
 The putter feels good and out here as soft as the greens are, you're going to have birdie putts. You hopefully will make a few.  
  
  Q. Like coming back to this area, obviously you got a lot of ties here and to do well would mean a lot, I'm sure.  
 BILL HAAS: Absolutely. Just to play well would be nice. Didn't have much expectation coming in here, I missed the cut last year, hadn't been playing all that outstanding.   
 I was working on some stuff and it feels good. Jerry, my coach from Wake, my uncle, came down yesterday to watch and it's definitely nice to be close. Maybe later this afternoon I might drive up, my sister is in school at Wake so I'll go out there and check it out. It's definitely nice, close to where I went to school so to play well is nice.  
  
  Q. You've lead rounds before.  
 BILL HAAS: I don't know.  
  
  Q. Do you remember?  
 BILL HAAS: Not that I can remember.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT