WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2009
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: Okay. I'd like to welcome Bill Haas to the Media Center. Bill, if you care to talk about -- you've had a pretty long day today, started pretty early and finished off your first round, had the first round lead outright and if you kind of talk about your day so far and where you think your standing is right now going into the weekend.  
 BILL HAAS: Okay. Yeah, I feel pretty good. Made some changes equipmentwise, got new irons with new shafts, totally different, both of them. Totally different putter that I started using two weeks ago at Flint, three weeks ago, I guess, two weeks off, but the putter feels really good.   
 Just when I sit over 10-footer I feel like I can make it, which is a change for me. If you have that kind of confidence, I think it frees everything else up, driver and irons.   
 I drove it better this morning. This afternoon I was struggling a little bit getting in the fairways and if you don't do that, you can't do much out here, the rough is pretty thick.  
 MARK STEVENS: Questions?  
  
  Q. Bill, 15, in your second round, you hit it in the water and made a heck of a par. Did that kind of keep you from getting down in the dumps a little bit?  
 BILL HAAS: That bogey would have been almost like a 3-shot penalty. People are making 3s and 4s there, and if I would have come up with a 6 that would have been terrible.  
 But to make par, drive it in the creek there, just a terrible swing, but to grind it out, and make par there, basically grind it out -- coming in, 17 and 18 are playing tough. I drove it in the rough in 17, good driver at 18 but didn't take advantage of it.  
 Pretty much was cruising. My two bogies so far are 3-putts, both on 70 footers, 60 footers but you take those away and I'm a bogey-free round. So feel pretty good going into the weekend.  
  
  Q. Bill, fellow ACC competitor and our defending champion talked about the other day how important confidence really is.   
 He said you got to have a good golf game but you must have confidence to get it done. How confident does your first couple of rounds here make you for the weekend?  
 BILL HAAS: Great. Anytime you can make a cut is good, you're playing four rounds and then to be 9-under par for two rounds is even better, and that's something I can build on and think about tonight when I'm going to sleep because I'm doing a lot of good things and do it tomorrow.  
 He's right, Carl is right, if you're not confident you're not going to play well. There's nobody that said, "Oh, I didn't have it this week and I won."   
 Tiger, maybe, his C game can win but he's still confident. He knows he's the better and he is the best so you got to be positive.  
  
  Q. Bill, you mentioned the equipment change.   
 What prompted that and what's the biggest difference between what you were playing and what you play with now?  
 BILL HAAS: You know, nothing really prompted it. I just I guess I'm not in love with anything. I've missed 11 cuts this year. I've not fallen in love with anything that's been in the bag.   
 I'm kind of all time -- if somebody sends me a pretty good looking set of new irons I'm going to use them. These are a little shinier. I wanted to use them.   
 I took two weeks off and I played a decent amount at home and really played well with them. So I guess coming in, you know, I had the confidence, practice going into the first round here.  
  
  Q. Bill, is that a pink putting cover --  
BILL HAAS: It's red.  
  
  Q. When you came out of college, obviously a lot said about being Jay's son and expectations and people just thought you were going to set the world on fire.   
 What did you want to accomplish when you got on Tour? I know you mentioned patience in years past but is it maybe other's expectations you were thinking about?  
 BILL HAAS: Little bit. I would have assumed I could have won by now which I could have won by now but I felt like I had the game to do so. I've been humbled a ton.   
 I think I've lost a little of the confidence that I had in college. It was easy to win in college, and got out here where basically every player was a dominating college player. You're playing against the best at what you were the best at.   
 All of a sudden I became pretty average. That's what I've done for four years is been average. I'm trying to work hard and take it to that next level and not that I'm looking forward to the off-season but hopefully play well in the FedExCup and in the off-season kick it into a new gear and maybe physically get better and also with the golf game.  
 MARK STEVENS: Any last questions? Okay. Thanks a lot Bill and good luck this weekend.  
 BILL HAAS: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT