STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2008
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BILL HAAS: Definitely better scores today. It's supposed to be little less windy tomorrow, that much better. Hit good golf shots. Anybody can win it. There's going to be 25 guys that can win today. We have to play a solid round of golf.  
  
  Q. Obviously your dad had some success here.  
 BILL HAAS: He won in '92 and '93. I was only ten. I don't remember a whole lot about it. I do remember -- that's one of the only wins I remember. I remember him making his putt on 18, which was pretty cool. I think I was too young to really appreciate it. I'm sure I'll talk to him tonight, and he'll give me his bit of advice.  
  
  Q. When you saw that, you were watching on television?  
 BILL HAAS: Yeah. I was not here.  
  
  Q. Were you playing a lot --  
BILL HAAS: Not really, no. I swung it a few times, but I was not playing.  
  
  Q. How has your year gone?  
 BILL HAAS: Got off to a good start. Kind of like I had a six-week, month-and-a-half stretch I didn't really have it, didn't really score well and missed a lot of cuts and put me kind of behind the 8-ball like I was last year. This is the time of the year when I start to playing a little better, and I'm doing it again.   
 I don't know how. I either play too much or I don't know. Maybe a little less, maybe a little more rest next year, little less play and all that stuff.   
 I'm enjoying the experience. I don't like taking weeks off. I like being out here. See how it goes the rest of the year.  
  
  Q. Compared all in all, what have you done this year?  
 BILL HAAS: Ninth at the FBR. It's a party on grass. Totally different. It was almost 100,000 some people out there on Sunday. I don't know if we have 10,000 people out here. It's definitely a different scene. But I don't know.   
 Everything is different. The grass is different. The heat is different. It's just all about -- this time at this year am I going to play well. Tomorrow hopefully I wake up in good spirits and hopefully I shoot a 67 or something tomorrow.  
 I have the same swing thoughts. I don't know if it was exactly like it was. I've done some of those good things here, but I think, you know, just fine-tuning. Tomorrow morning on the range, I'll take a few swings and hopefully it will help.   
  
  Q. Are you comfortable here?  
 BILL HAAS: I don't know. Bermuda rough and the bermuda right around the greens is similar to what I grew up playing. Maybe I'm used to that, but I just think out here these guys are so good, and if a guy plays good one week, no matter what course they play on, they play well.   
 I played decently this week. I'm shooting good numbers. I'm only 3-under on the card. It's not like we're 12-under or anything. We're grinding out here, and 70 is a good score on this course. I'm going to try to shoot that other better tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How about last year?  
 A I do remember I was leading on eight holes on Sunday. I made a few bogies on 9, 10, 11, kind of shot myself out of it, but then I birdied the last two holes. I kind of ramped it up and made some good shots, had some good holes coming in. But I would like not to fall backwards tomorrow, maybe just kind of keep pressing, play solid little pars, few birdies here and there and put pressure on the guys that are up there.  
  
  Q. What about your dad?  
 BILL HAAS: I don't know if he plays next week. I don't know if there's anything during the regular Open. Maybe when I'm home next week, we'll play a little golf, my dad and I.   
 I watch him on TV. Every time he plays, I watch him. We talk about it but don't get a whole lot to play together. When we do, it's always a learning experience. I'm still second best in my family.  
 To win anywhere out here would be a dream come true of mine. I haven't been that close honestly. I haven't been leading by 2, 3 to go. I just kind of knocked on the door. Kind of what I'm doing this week and hoping maybe, you know, just one round of golf, one good round of golf that I've shot many times in my golfing career. Try to do it tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You had a good finish. Did you feel like you left something out there?  
 BILL HAAS: Little bit. I made a long putt on 13 and I birdied 12, which was a pretty good birdie. I kind of feel like I stole two there, but kind of coming in, the wheels were kind of falling off, the great save at the last, I'm glad I did that to make myself feel better about it. I missed a 8-footer at 16. Missed a 10-footer at 17. It was a day if I was feeling good making putts it could have been a 66, 56 pretty easy.  
  
  Q. Wind was not as much a factor today. Heat was for a lot of guys.  
 BILL HAAS: Honestly, a few times I had to catch myself. I thought I might go down. You read putts and stand up. It's probably some of the hottest I've ever been. Maybe it's me. I wore a third shirt today. I've got to stay hydrated. Supposed to get hotter tomorrow with less wind. That's almost something you've got to battle. I think the wind would be preferred, guys would prefer it because the scores wouldn't be as good and we grind it out a little more, be cooler out here.  
  
  Q. Got to be excited.  
 BILL HAAS: I feel good. I've done some good things lately. I feel like I'm striking the ball well and driving the ball well, which you've got to do out here. Fairways are a premium out here. The rough is tough to judge. But, you know, who knows. Everyday is different, and hopefully I'm comfortable tomorrow and rip it down the middle.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT