TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2007
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Bill, 3-under today, right in contention.  Talk about where your mind-set is. 
 BILL HAAS:  Yeah, I feel good.  Another round tomorrow in the 60s would go a long way.  I didn't -- off the tee, I didn't really have it today, and I only hit maybe four or five fairways.  So to shoot something in the 60s, I'm pleased with.  Hopefully I can figure that out. 
 It was windy, not an easy day but there were a lot of good scores.  Guys were still making putts.  You've got to do it.  It's going to take a low number tomorrow to be anywhere close, but if I can just play solid tomorrow, I'll be pleased. 
 I feel good.  I didn't quite have it off the tee today.  I didn't hit many fairways, so to shoot anything in the 60s today, I'm pleased with.  If I can come out tomorrow and just drive it a little better, you never know; I can shoot another good number. 

 Q.  Conditions were windy, we didn't really have any wind on Thursday and Friday.  Just talk about the difference, and yet the scores were still there. 
 BILL HAAS:  Yeah, I saw a lot of good scores on the leaderboard, and I think that was good.  It made me have mind-set of you've still got to be aggressive and make some putts, and par wasn't necessarily the best score. 
 The par 5s are gettable.  I wasn't so sure there on last but I would have played them again 4-under today if I would have made that.  But I think I'm an 11-under on the par 5s, and I'm 12-under for the tournament, and so if I can play those 4-under -- 3- , 4-under tomorrow, hopefully that will be good enough. 

 Q.  What's your game plan for tomorrow?  You're in contention, obviously with the scores this week, it's just been low scores every day, so obviously we're going to have a shootout. 
 BILL HAAS:  Yeah, it's going to take mid 60s tomorrow to even be close.  The guys in the lead tomorrow they are going to have to shoot in the 60s to hold it. 
 I'm looking forward to it.  I've been in contention not that many times, but a few times, and to me I've disappointed myself. 
 Tomorrow, I'm just going to go out and be patient and take it a shot at a time.  Every shot counts, every putt counts and I'll grind it out. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT