FUNAI CLASSIC AT THE WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 19, 2006
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Bill, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  Good start to the week.  Nice round of no bogeys today.  Just talk about what you did well.
BILL HAAS:  Conditions are good scoring conditions, and I've been not driving the ball particularly well.  The front nine I did and the back nine I drove it terrible and got away with a few things and made a few good saves to not make a bogey, which is nice.

And I putted pretty well.  You've got to putt well on these greens.  They're perfect, they're very nice.  I think that was probably my key was putting.
Q.  Assess your year so far since you're kind of one of the marked guys coming out of Q school here last year here in town and obviously a guy people have been looking at suspiciously for a few years since you got out of college.
BILL HAAS:  I'm happy with it.  I think we all as players have high expectations, and I wouldn't say I've reached all of them.  But the year is not quite over yet, and you never know what can happen.  A lot of young players, a lot of rookies did very well this year.  I don't mind being overshadowed by them as well as I'm doing decent.

I'm happy to be here.  I'm happy to play next year, and hopefully it'll just keep improving.
Q.  I asked Charles a minute ago, I guess you could say in theory that maybe the guy that throws the low number on the Mag out there is really actually leading the tournament given the shot differential of two or three strokes between the two?
BILL HAAS:  Is it that much different?
Q.  It was 2 point something last year and I don't think there's a Mag guy on the leaderboard right now, is there?
BILL HAAS:  Well, it's going to be a long day.  The ball is going pretty good, no wind.  I can see I think someone is 10 under through 13 holes, I can see even 10 or 11 or 12.  If you get it going    that's obviously ridiculously low.  It's definitely doable when you see someone out there    59 can be done, and this is a week    there's many weeks it can be done, Bob Hope, this is one maybe of them, and I would say on the Palm, not the Magnolia.
Q.  Charlie talked about playing Palm first and then three straight days on Mag.  Is that a good deal for you, maybe getting into the flow by playing the easier course first?
BILL HAAS:  Definitely.  We definitely both had decent rounds, and if we both shot 1 under today then we knew we were going to have to shoot 3  or 4  tomorrow to be around for the weekend.  It definitely is nice to get    now we've got three days on the course where we're going to finish.  There's all kinds of theories, but I don't think it really matters.  There's still 72 holes and you've got to play all of them.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT