WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2006
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How did you feel coming down the stretch, Bill, knowing that that Top 10 was there?
BILL HAAS:  You know, I was nervous on 17 for some reason, I guess, because there's water and a lot of things that can happen.  For some reason making bogey on 17 loosened me up, and I felt good on 18.  A little nervous over that last putt, but it was a pretty easy putt, right edge.
Q.  Coming into the day did you think this was a really big spot for you or were you trying to just make it a regular round of golf?
BILL HAAS:  Trying to make it a regular round of golf, but how many are out here?  You're playing for something out here every day, every week.

I said I wanted to shoot something like 70 or 69 so I was right where there I was hoping for.  Obviously a 64 or something like that would have been great, but today conditions were tough and I'm pleased.
Q.  Your dad said he was watching over his shoulder and then he was watching on 18.  Did you kind of feel his presence?
BILL HAAS:  A little bit.  I was watching him, too.  It was nice; I saw pretty much every shot he hit when we were waiting.  That made it a little more comfortable.  But I had a good pairing.  Playing with Vijay, he's pretty impressive to watch.  It was more just comfortable.  The conditions maybe helped me a little bit.  I was worried about the umbrella and keeping my hands dry more than anything.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BILL HAAS:  Just more experience.  When I got to 8 under I was just trying to stay there as opposed to get to 10 and win.  Maybe I need to change that mentality a little bit, but right now I'm playing week to week and trying to improve.  This is my best finish as a professional, so this is a steppingstone and a positive for me.
Q.  How much do you think this alleviates the rest of the year?  You didn't make your card today but you went a long way towards it.
BILL HAAS:  You get Top 10 out here a few times and that takes the pressure off of you.  It makes it easier, but yet I've got a long way to go.  The good thing is there's a lot of events left and I can make some money in other weeks, but it's nice to make big chunks sometimes.
Q.  What did your dad say to you?
BILL HAAS:  He just said way to go.  We didn't really talk.  We'll go hole by hole later, I'm sure.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT