WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 28, 2016
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on 5-under for the second day in a row?  
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I said yesterday, I haven't played terribly well here in the past.  So to shoot some good scores -- and this is, I thought, very difficult conditions, so very proud of that score.   
 Q.  You've done this in markedly different conditions to yesterday.  The course must have changed in its nature, as well.  
BILL HAAS: It's just you have to really be conscious of the wind.  It was gusty at times.  It seemed like the ball -- it's cooler, a little bit of a mist.  The ball wasn't going very far anyway, so the holes into the wind played very tough today.   
 Q.  You've had already a Top-10 position at The Open Championship this year, so does it suggest that you're good at playing in the wind?  
BILL HAAS: I don't know.  I've had plenty of bad rounds into the wind, as well.  I actually think I'm a little bit of a spiny player, so it hurt me a little bit.  You just have to focus on hitting a solid shot, and if it the wind affects it, it affects it.  You just have to play for it.   
 Q.  I take it you're getting your rewards with the target golf into the greens.  
BILL HAAS: Absolutely.  I think that's the one thing that's letting us shoot some good scores is the greens are soft.  So maybe when you're even out of the rough, if you have a decent lie, if you fly it on the green, it's probably going to stop on the green.   
Certainly getting helped with the soft greens, but that makes it play a lot longer, as well.  We would all like it to be a little firmer, for sure.   
 Q.  I certainly wouldn't belittle your score, but when you come in and see Hideki has shot a 65 in these conditions, your thoughts then?  
BILL HAAS: He's a heck of a player, and just really must have played nice golf.  Because I didn't lose many shots out there; I made some nice par saves and made some nice putts, some 15-, 20-foot putts, just to shoot 4- or 5-under.   
For him to shoot 7, or be 13-under, that's really, really impressive.   
 Q.  And your position in relation to him, that's impressive, as well?  
BILL HAAS: Yeah, very happy.  Hopefully going to shoot something under par on the weekend and try to make him sweat a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT