BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 25, 2004
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Thank you, Billy, for joining us for a few minutes.  It was a great round and a wonderful way to start your professional career.  You're going to make the cut obviously.  Hopefully you'll play just as well on the weekend.
BILL HAAS: That would be nice.
Q.  Do you want to make a couple comments about making your first professional start and then we'll take questions.
BILL HAAS: It's almost less stressful than The Open was when I played as an amateur.  I was in this room when I played in the Charlotte and Greensboro tournament on Tuesday giving interviews, and now I'm in here.  I think this week is less than that and more of this.  It's a little more laid back.  That's the approach I'm trying to take.
Q.  Questions?  Billy, what is your goal?
BILL HAAS: The goal maybe is the 150 out at the end of the year.  I set day to day goals.  While 65 is a great score, there is a 62 and 61 out there.  Not that I expect to do that, but those guys are great players, and it can be done.  I feel like I can at least shoot 65 again if I do my best.  All I can do is play golf, and if I play well, results will come.
Q.  Because of the 150, does that affect whether you're more conservative or aggressive?
BILL HAAS: I don't think so.  I think you have to have an aggressive mind set.  The rest of the field or most of the field is having 25 tries at it, and I get 7.  I'm shooting in the middle of the greens.  You can make a 20 footer as easy as you can make a 4 footer.  It looks better at 20, but I feel I need to be aggressive in making cuts, and I don't think I need to say, screw it, I've got next week.  I need to grind every shot and every hole.  It will be tough.
Q.  11 looked like you were a little cozy with the trees there.
BILL HAAS: The par 3?
Q.  10, I'm sorry.
BILL HAAS: Yeah, a little too far left.  I hit a great shot.  I kind of aimed at the bunker and hooked it.  It did just that.  I was very pleased.
Q.  Do you actually allow yourself at this point to think you can actually win the tournament?
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I'm thinking that.  I think if I play well, like I said, if those guys at the top don't go ridiculous again.  I'm happy with 8.  If I can shoot 8 again and get to 16, I'll be very pleased.  I'll probably get beat because of the way the scores are now.  I can't do anything about that.  I expect to play well and, therefore, expect to win.

I don't know.  That sounds conceited or cocky to say I expect to win every tournament.  I'm not a regular on this tour.  I feel like if I play my best golf, I can compete out here.  If I play my best golf on the weekend, then I should be somewhat close.
Q.  A couple more questions.  How did the course play today as opposed to yesterday?  And did you feel like if you continue to shoot consistently, the 14 might be where the leader finishes?
BILL HAAS: I think later in the day yesterday, the greens got a little bumpier.  They might have gotten a little firmer.  We have golfed perfect greens.  For us it was easier.  I hope the wind picks up and there's a storm brewing out there and guys shoot in the 70s in the afternoon.  It won't bother me any.
Q.  One last question?  Do you think at all about the company you're putting yourself in?  Do you think at all about what other guys have done?
BILL HAAS: Not really.  I think maybe at the end of the week after I finish up, hopefully I finish up well, I'll be able to look back and say, wow, it was pretty neat to do that well in a first event.  A lot can go wrong; a lot can go great.  I don't think I'll allow myself to sit down and enjoy this yet.  I think I need to concentrate and really grind on the next two rounds.
Q.  Thank you, Billy, for joining us.
BILL HAAS: Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT