WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 27, 2016
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice way to finish on a damp old first day?
BILL HAAS: Absolutely.  I didn't hit many great shots coming down the stretch there, and to get to 5-under, and then got a great break at 6.  Should have rolled back in the hazard but it plugged in its pitchmark and was able to get that up-and-down.
3-putted 8 for bogey, but then that chip-in at 9 was a great way to finish.
Q. To be 5-under par in these kind of conditions, I take it there's a lot of satisfying shots out there.
BILL HAAS: Absolutely.  I did some really good things at times and it seemed like when I needed to recover from a fairway bunker or out of the rough I was able to do that today.  I got some good breaks and certainly need to clean it up a little bit but overall very pleased.
Q. Is it playing longer than it usually does?
BILL HAAS: I'm getting shorter every year goes on and these young guys are getting longer.  So for me to hang in there; this course is playing about as long as it could ever play, and they moved some tees up for us today and I hope they keep doing that just for my sake.
It's playing difficult.  You've just got to hit some quality shots.
Q. How are you in terms of jet-lag and things?  Have you been over here, in this part of the word, in Malaysia acclimatising?
BILL HAAS: I didn't actually go to Malaysia.  Just came here.  I'm a little tired right now.  I mean, shoot, it is what it is.  When you're out there on the course and you have adrenaline going, I don't think you feel being tired that much.  But it's pretty hard for me to sleep through the night, so that's the only difficult thing.
But happy to be here.  This is a nice tournament to be in.
Q. I take it down the years, you've seen the way that it's grown, the prestige of the event now?
BILL HAAS: You look at the, it's an outstanding field.  Yeah, I think the tournament, it speaks for itself and the winners are all great, fantastic winners, so hopefully come Sunday, we have a long way to go but hopefully I'll be in the mix.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT