THE 145TH OPEN
July 17, 2016
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BILL HAAS: Certainly on a time of day when I needed to shoot something good, I'm disappointed.  Didn't get off to a good start.  The putter felt a little shaky early and then just didn't put the ball off the tee in the positions I needed to do it.  Mainly it was left was my miss, so I don't know why that is, but it's something I can work on and hopefully build upon for the next time I'm in this position.
Q. (Inaudible). Was there a comfort zone with that?
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I pulled the one on 5.  6 was actually more the wedge shots than the putt.  I had a 10-footer there.  You're going to miss 10-footers.  But, yeah, missing a three-footer there after a great chip at 5.  I don't want to say derailed me, because I felt like I could still do something good.  I was trying to be aggressive with the wedge at 6.  Just hit it in the bunker.  A spot you just couldn't hit it.  So to go, basically I should have made 3 on 5, and I definitely shouldn't have made 6 on 6.  There's two shots, maybe three in those two holes.  Then you look up and you're 12th back already.  So it was pretty much a grind from that point on.
Q. (Inaudible).
BILL HAAS: Yeah, my goal was to shoot something under par.  I thought if I shot something under par and the leaders fell backwards, I'd give myself a chance coming down the stretch.  But obviously looking back, they shot great numbers.  It was a two-man race, and hat's off to them.  I finished top 10, and I think I'm down by 17 or something like that.  So that's just really good golf by those two guys.
Q. (Inaudible).
BILL HAAS: Yeah, take away positives.  The negative is today.  If I had shot 75 the first round and then grinding my way to 9th, I could see it positively.  So I've got to think of it that way.  But in the back of your head you just know I was in position to do something really good and I didn't take advantage.
So disappointed, but I hung tight.  I parred the last seven holes when I was tied for 9th.  So I wanted a top 10, I wanted a top 5.  So I achieved a small goal.
Q. (Inaudible).
BILL HAAS: Coming down the stretch there, the wind's off the left and I just was really telling myself, "Don't bail right.  Try to make a good, aggressive swing," and I was maybe just being overly aggressive or a little flippy with the hands.  I'm not sure what it is.  But if I knew exactly what it was, I wouldn't have done it time and time again.  But I was trying my best, and just couldn't hit the fairways.
Q. The atmosphere, what was the atmosphere like?
BILL HAAS: Yeah, it was pretty electric out there for him.  It was fun to watch.  He's certainly a fan favourite and deservingly so; he's a great guy.
Q. PGA Championship, is that your next start?
BILL HAAS: It is my next start.  Yeah, I'm not playing Canada, so I'll go home for a week and then hopefully work on a few things and try to think about the positives and not the negatives and take those into the PGA.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT