THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2016
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BILL HAAS: It was about as calm as it can be.  No wind to speak of hardly.  Maybe about three or four miles an hour coming down the stretch.  But with the greens being receptive as they are, that's the reason you're seeing such good scores.   
 Q.  Everything seems to be so easy for you; is it that easy when you're you out there?  
BILL HAAS: No, I'm grinding still.  It felt good, but I made a 30-footer or 40-footer on No. 6 for birdie, and I made a couple short ones.  I did the things that you have to do to make it a 65.  Certainly could have been a 68 or 69 pretty easily, but then again, the putt at 17, and I missed a short one at 2, as well.  You've just got to take the ones you get and be happy.  The greens are perfect.  They're rolling.  So if you get one rolling on line you feel like you can make a putt.   
 Q.  The fairways are firm and fast, and for some people they don't like them cut down like they are.  You must like it like that because they're kind of sitting up nice, aren't they?  
BILL HAAS: The fairways are great, like you said.  If you hit a nice, quality drive they're running out a little bit.  You're going to see some guys, Jason Day and Justin Rose, I played with him last week, and he was just pounding the ball.  I would think if they hit a correct drive like they want, they can hit a lot of shorter irons in than normal around this place.  Today was the day you had to get it.  I'm sure we're going to get some wind on the weekends.  The greens, you can already feel like maybe starting to get some firmness to them.  So come Sunday, you won't see scores like you're seeing.   
 Q.  Can you describe how the course played for you on Thursday?  
BILL HAAS: You know, I got lucky a couple times, made a nice long putt at No. 6.  Overall, though, I drove the ball nice, as I think you have to do around this course, and then with the greens being soft, I felt like my weaker irons or not quite as good a shots, they ended up fine.  I think my iron game needs to get cleaned up a little bit for the week because the greens will firm up.  I'm sure we'll see some more breeze than we're seeing so far.  It'll get tougher and the scores won't be as good, but happy to shoot a good round when you had to.   
 Q.  A chance to get in that playoff a year ago.  What does it do to come back a year later knowing how close you are in terms of confidence, feeling like let's go one more step?  
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I've had bad weeks here, but I've also -- like last year I felt like I had a chance to maybe win this thing.  The back nine, I had a great finish to even be in the mix.  But middle of the day I had some bad putts that I've thought about since then, and really felt like I could have had a chance to be in that playoff or maybe even win outright, but every player can say those things.  It worked out the way it did.  But any time you have a good week, you build on that the next year, and certainly I felt those good vibes today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT