MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2016
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You looked like the most surprised person in the room when the ball went in on 13?
BILL HAAS: Yeah, in the air I was telling it to get down. I've hit it over that pin before and you're asking for a 6 right away if it goes over that green. 
It was on a good line, obviously, but I was still concerned with either hitting the hole, the pin, which could make it go anywhere or just one bounce and over the green.
Actually when it landed I thought it was going to be good, but for it to go in was obviously a huge bonus.

Q. How did par feel like on a day like today?
BILL HAAS: It feels good. But when I made the birdie on 15 to get 1‑under, it's funny how much one shot makes such a difference. One shot feels like 65 and even feels like even. It's weird how that works in your head. 
Really pumped the way I parred the last hole, it was not a very good second shot. But that second shot is playing hard, left‑to‑right wind with a little hurt. It's just a hard shot. You can't go left there, and so I obviously didn't, I went right. 
But proud of the way I hung in there, certainly wasn't the prettiest of golf again, but in those conditions I don't think it's going to be too pretty.

Q. Is this one of toughest days you've played in the Masters, condition‑wise?
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I've only played a handful of Masters, but I asked Larry, have you seen it here in your 30 years, I think it's his 29th or something, maybe 29th since he won his first, so maybe at least 30 for him ‑‑ I asked him if he's seen three days like this. And he said, no, there's been years where there's been one day like this, but never three in a row blowing this direction. And usually it's warmer. And if it does blow it's usually out of the south. And 18 is more down out of the right as opposed to in and out of the left. So playing very difficult.

Q. If you were really honest with yourself, were you looking forward to playing golf today?
BILL HAAS: No. When I was warming up, I said I don't even know if I can finish today. I've said it all week, I've not been striking it like I'd like, so warming up and into the wind, a little off to the left and it was the worst‑‑ if I had to warm up in that every day, I would never practice. That's just a hard wind to hit balls in. I got a little discouraged going out. 
The thing people don't realize about this course is they've made the range be like your first tee shot of the day. And that's a luxury, especially when it's windy like this.

Q. Are there any pins out there at all that the rules committee seems to have backed off a little bit?
BILL HAAS: No. I don't think so. But I said earlier that there's just only so many pin placements. And I think they want to use some placements they've used before. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that. No.7 is straight downwind. I don't think you can hit it within five feet with a lob wedge. You can hit it 20 feet long. I fatted a wedge in the middle of the fairway, and hit it short of the bunkers, and you just‑‑ there's a hole you just can't get it close to. But I think that's part of the tournament is when you can't get it close, you've got to hit it to that spot and then you have a tough two‑putt. 
And then there's other holes, 14 downwind, where that pin is today is acceptable. And 15, front right, that's accessible. I don't think they held much back. 
But then again I don't think they‑‑ I don't think anybody expects them to put them in the middle of the green. It still wouldn't be easy, even with that. So you might as well use the pins they want to use.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT