WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2016
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First three days, three wins, a nice win over Adam today.  Some comments?
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I'm extremely proud and happy to make it this far, it's as far as I've ever gotten in this event.  And luckily today maybe Adam didn't have his best stuff and that gave me the opportunity to be close there at the end, because I struggled as well, tee to green.
But I made some nice putts that kept me in the match and luckily coming to 17 you never know.  And it worked out in my favor.
Q. How much was it a dogfight out there?  He eagled, birdie to make it all square there on 13.
BILL HAAS: Basically that's what a Masters champion does, he was 2 down after 11.  He made an eagle and three birdies after that, certainly put it on me little bit.  When I came down to 17 I knew I had to have a birdie, birdie finish, or at least birdie one of the holes.  To hit decent shots and make those putts is a great feeling.
Q. What was the mentality you took into this match, and how much of a benefit was it to know you have to halve to advance?  You did win it, but you have to to advance.
BILL HAAS: It only matters basically one hole.  If I had been 1-up going to 18, that was the only way I would have relaxed all day.  If I had gotten more of a lead on the front nine, knowing that it was a 17-hole match instead of an 18-hole match, that would have been nice.  The way the match was, it was close all day.  So the half point did not play much of a role.
Q. Does that bode well for you tomorrow?
BILL HAAS: I think everybody that goes into tomorrow, everybody is boding well.  If they've advanced then they're playing well.  And I'm certainly going to have to strike the ball better to keep advancing.  Doing enough things to keep me around, but the other side I've got to work on some things.
Q. It's 2:30 and you're done for the day, and where a lot of guys will be playing well into 7:00?
BILL HAAS: Absolutely.  But somebody told me that I'll be one of the first matches out tomorrow.  Knowing that it will be an early morning, but certainly nice to kick my feet up and maybe watch some basketball later.
Q. What did you think of the format this year?
BILL HAAS: Last year they went with it, as well.  It's different.  I always enjoyed if you lose you go home, you win you move on.  But certainly for the sponsors -- I think you have to ask Dell, if Dell likes it, if we're making them happy then I think all the players are happy.
Q. You're still playing with a one-and-done mentality, even though it's group play?
BILL HAAS: Well, I think that's what it is.  And I think if you lose a match, it's almost impossible to move on.  There is that chance, if it works out, that you might get in a playoff and could still move on.  But certainly if you go out and lose your first match, I think you have that feeling that it's one and done.  But both ways work.  Both ways in order to win you have to win your matches.  So it's not much different.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT