WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2016
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We talked about this yesterday, what was it like out there today knowing that you didn't have to twin match, that you could halve the match?
BILL HAAS: I didn't really want it to have to come down to a half at the end.  Sure enough, we're playing 18 all square.  It made it nice.  I think Adam felt like he had to birdie the hole and I felt like a par could win it.  So maybe I had that little bit of an edge.
There wasn't much edge out there.  I struggled all day tee to green.  Adam gave me a few holes.  Matter of fact, when we shook hands, he said, I don't know what to say about that, but you need to play better tomorrow, which was the truth.  It wasn't pretty golf.  To finish the way I did, that's going to feel good tonight.
Q. Speaking of the finish, we're taking a look at the two putts on 17 and 18 right now?  How comfortable are you on the green compared to off the tee right now?
BILL HAAS: That's the only reason I'm winning any matches is with my chipping and putting around the greens.  My driver, I've really struggled with.  My irons I've hit some good ones, but I've also hit some really bad ones.  That's tough.  It's tough to score, tough to compete against these guys.  Luckily I've been able to get up-and-down when I had to.  If I did hit a good shot, I was able to make the birdie and that's the only reason I'm here.
Q. You have been telling us for a couple of days that you have not been hitting the ball well, but you are advancing to Saturday morning's Sweet 16.  Can you fix something quickly to get it back in gear for tomorrow morning's match?
BILL HAAS: I hope so.  I'm certainly going to go work on it a little bit.  Also, you never know in match play.  You've only got to beat one guy.  If I can hang with him for enough holes then you never know what could happen at the end.  Luckily today it worked out in my favor.
Certainly a guy like Zach Johnson, the way I've seen him playing and the scores he's shooting, I don't think I have a chance against him.  Again, you never know.  He may have a down day and I get hot tomorrow.
Q. You did what you had to do and it was out in the wind and you did it in style.  Take us through this match.
BILL HAAS: Like you said, it was not pretty.  There were multiple holes won with just giving him holes.  That's what you don't want to do in this format against a guy like Adam.  You don't want to give him any holes.  Luckily, he returned the favor a few times.  I think I felt -- he felt like he could maybe be safe on 17 and make me make birdie.  I was able to hit a nice wedge there and make the putt.  That feels great.  To get the last hole all square made me feel a little comfortable.  Didn't look like I missed the fairway at 18, but felt good to feel like I did something there.  Then 18, I was trying to lag it down there because I knew a half for the match would have me move on.  So that last putt was just a bonus.
Q. I was going to ask you that, going into this match knowing that you only needed to halve it, how much does that give you confidence?
BILL HAAS: Well, it certainly gives you a little more of a chance, I guess.  If I didn't win 17, if I missed that putt at 17, I knew I still had something on 18.  But with that said, going into 18 all square was even more of a bonus.  Certainly a big putt at the right time.  Like you said earlier, it wasn't pretty.  So I've got to figure something out if I want to advance further than this.
Q. To win all three matches playing the way you are, is it giving confidence if you do get through, you can take it all the way?
BILL HAAS: Absolutely.  You just never know.  You've only got to beat one guy.  If he doesn't play great, that's a bonus.  If he does, you better raise your game or the match will be over early.  Luckily, nobody has gone crazy low against me.  So far so good on that respect.  But I do believe in myself.  I do think I can play better.  If I do that then you never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT