WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2016
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I didn't get to see any of the match but obviously you played well enough to win.  Tell me about it?  
BILL HAAS: You know, honestly he played equally as good of golf.  I hit some drives right.  The par 5, No. 6, maybe, I hit it right and was able to knock it up on the green.   
14, 15, I hit two drives right but was able to knock them on the green.  So just good breaks that went my way, and could easily have been bad lies and he wins the holes and the match is a different story.   
Just got off to a tough start.  And he played nice early.  He was 3-under through 5.  And I was hanging in there, hanging in there, and luckily had a nice little run there, about 9, 10, 11, 12, was a good point in the match for me.   
 Q.  What do you think about this golf course?  
BILL HAAS: It was good.  I think with no wind you'd see a lot more birdies.  But this wind has been tricky.  For me I'm struggling off the tee box.  You get that wind blowing and it's hard to hit fairways I'm finding.   
But I think it's fun.  I think the back nine is beautiful and right on the river there.  And the lake -- it's a river and a lake.   
But it's just -- I think this place -- Austin should be proud obviously of this course, this membership should be very proud of their golf course.   
 Q.  The last time you went head-to-head in match play, you had a memorable experience at the Presidents Cup.  Did that give you any momentum or confidence going into today?  
BILL HAAS: I mean if anything else you can at least look back and say I've won matches before.  And like today, and like that match, I didn't necessarily have my "A" game.  I did at times.  I made some unbelievable up-and-downs.  All you need in match play is for things to bounce your way, make a few extra putts and if your opponent doesn't play great then it's a totally different story, anything can happen.   
He played good enough, I could see him winning his match 6 & 5 tomorrow.  It's the nature of this format and pleased to be able to have one win and give me something to play for tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT