VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2016
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How important is it to play well this time of year?  
BILL HAAS: Anytime of year.  I don't think there's a bad time.  I think the beginning of the year helps you get off to a nice start.  The middle of the year you're pushing towards the Majors and then the end of the year the FedExCup.   
So, the best players play good all the time and I'm happy if I can just plug along and be up there towards the top every now and then and my goal is to be there more often and so far this year it's been a little bit of a struggle, some good weeks, some bad and the ball-striking still is just not quite where I would like it.   
You play with Henrik Stenson and you watch him -- it's beautiful to watch, it's motivating because like man, somebody can hit it that good and that long and that straight.   
But, luckily my putter has held me in there for two days.  I think if I play decent this weekend I can have a chance.   
 Q.  How does this weekend look where no one has gotten better than 5-under and guys making the cut?  Probably like an 8 shot spread.  
BILL HAAS: Guys that made the cut on the number can win.  You got that.  But also gives the guys like myself and some of the other guys near the lead if we can go low one of these next two days you can separate yourself as well.   
So, obviously in a good position but it's also one of those courses that can get you if you're not sharp.  I'm going to try to save as many strokes as I can when I don't have it.  If I hit good ones, try to capitalize.   
 Q.  I heard Webb say he likes this course because it feels like the Carolinas.  Do you have a similar affinity for this course because of that?  
BILL HAAS: The east coast of Florida, Miami and West Palm this is complete -- completely different than there.  I prefer this -- like growing up like he's saying, I prefer this type of tree-lined, not just wide open which it seems like if you push one left, right wind, it's 40 yards, 50 yards right.   
Here you can kind of work your way through the course.  But, again, if you get off line, these trees can -- you know it plays really narrow out there with some of these big adult trees.   
 Q.  Nice birdie at 18.  How was it for you on the golf course today?  
BILL HAAS: It hadn't been the prettiest of golf but it didn't need to be.  You see the leaders are only 4, 5-under.  It's playing tough.   
Yesterday was really breezy which I thought even par was a good score yesterday and today, just my misses seemed to be okay, you know, and I was able to get up and down when I had to and my only bogey was actually I was like 12 feet off the side of the green from the hole and it was just kind of a fluffy lie in the rough and didn't chip it very close.   
Overall, never really felt like I was scrambling for par even though maybe I hit a few off line off the tee and stuff like that.  So, kept the ball, like they say, in front of me today and nothing too crazy and hopefully can do that on the weekend and hang in there because right now it's prime for somebody to go low tomorrow, you know, separate themselves.   
 Q.  You're a multiple winner on the PGA TOUR.  What's the key for you when you play a golf course like this, this tough and tough conditions?  
BILL HAAS: I think you just got to keep grinding.  Every week we play -- you know, it's hard and you see scores are not very low and 3, 4-under goes a long way.  If you get 1, 2-over, nobody else is running away with this thing and focus on the next hole and try to just make pars and pars are good here.  That's different than a lot of weeks we play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT