SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2018
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Go ahead and get started.  Like to welcome the 2010 Sanderson Farms Championship winner.  Thanks for joining us for a few minutes.  Just looking up a couple of notes and noticed that in your three starts here you have not finished outside of the Top 5.
I know we've had different courses and so forth, but you've a chance to get out and see the course.  Just your thought on the course and how it sets up for your game.
BILL HAAS: Yeah, course is fantastic.  Certainly, like you said, I had a lot of success Annandale, so personally I miss that place.  We're lucky to have a nice course like this.  I thought it was more challenging.  I think you have to drive the ball very well.  Somewhat narrow fairways and certainly some trouble on some holes.
So if you drive the ball well, I do think you'll see some good scores.  Right now the greens are firm and fast, and so definitely a challenge.
THE MODERATOR: And if you could just bring us up to speed on how you're feeling and how your game is shaping up for you.
BILL HAAS: I feel pretty good.  You know, I wouldn't say I'm 100%, but I haven't been for a while -- even before this year.  Just getting older.  Many game feels okay.  I'm playing well enough I think to compete.
It's just a matter of saving some shots here and there and giving myself a chance on Sunday, which is what we're all trying to do.
THE MODERATOR: Starting the season on a medical with the two events, and got off to a great start in the first one with a top 10 finish at Safeway.  How much is that on your mind?  Looks like, if I did my math right, you're in need of I guess 45 FedExCup points to clear the medical.  Is that something you let the process take care of itself or what's your mindset with that?
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I mean, I'm fortunate enough that they gave me a couple starts as a minor medical, because certainly didn't end last year the way I thought I could play.
You know, by missing a few events early in the year they were able to give me a couple starts back.  Just trying to take advantage of those.  Certainly focused on this year as well.  If that doesn't work out, this week doesn't work out, then I certainly have to go forward and try to get better and maybe earn my way into a few more starts and go from there.
But, you know, they -- I don't know who "they" is -- but don't let you not think about it.  It's really the only question I've gotten this whole week is, you know, how do you feel about being on a minor medical?  It's just there and it is what it is.
Really the truthful answer is I put myself in that position, and I'm hoping I can play my way out.  Really your only way that it's done out here is by play.  The better you play the more chances you have to improve.
THE MODERATOR: You can put me on the "they" list now.  With that, we'll open it up and take a few questions.
Q. Are you relieved to get to a new season and put last year behind you?  Just a tough year.
BILL HAAS: Maybe a little bit.  I really don't even know.  I think when I start having some more success, or if I am going to have that, then I certainly think these times I'll -- not appreciate them, but I'll be able to put them behind me a little bit.
But it's just golf.  I think that's what I've learned the most.  It's just a game and it is what I do for a living, but all of us are trying to put a score by our name.
If you don't shoot 70s, and 69s and 68s, it doesn't matter.  They don't care what you done in the past.  If you shoot 71s and 2s and 3s, then there is no place for you out here.
But I think what I've learned last year was it can go the other way and it's not the most important thing in the world.  With that said, I think I've worked harder in the last eight months than I've ever worked on my game.  I'm hoping that I'm going to see results at some point.
Q. What have you worked on?
BILL HAAS: Just playing, trying to get better, my swing, putting.  I'm trying the arm lock putter, up the arm.  Trying to get my -- you know, my leg.  I had a minor surgery in those four weeks' time.  Rehabbing that and trying to get to feeling better to where I feel a little healthier.
I feel fine to swing, but I'm not going to be jogging any time soon.  I can walk and play golf, and I feel like that's all I need to do.  I feel good everywhere.  Again, last year I shot a bunch of 71s and 2s and didn't shoot a bunch of 69s and 70s.
I think there are a lot of ways you can find those strokes.  It's not necessarily hitting it perfectly or anything like that.
Q. You had surgery since the Wyndham?
BILL HAAS: Uh-huh.
Q. What did you have?
BILL HAAS: Just meniscus, like a clean out.  It wasn't major by any means.  Just a way to feel like I needed it and trying to get that stronger.  I think it's weak for reasons.  That's the reason the meniscus was an issue.  I think I got some other stuff going on.  Just trying to strengthen everything around that and just feel better physically.
Q. The man whose name is on the tournament said that you (indiscernible) putting needs to come around.  Is that an accurate assessment?
BILL HAAS: That's just another knock today I got.  You can't putt.  I guess just add that one to the list.  No, I felt like I putted okay.  Didn't make a whole lot of birdies.  With the pins right in the middle of the greens, if you can't make them today you might not make many this week.
At the same time, I feel like the way I was striking ball I was playing well enough to shoot a good score.  Hopefully this week -- if you make a few putts you're not supposed to and then make the 5- to 10-footers you're supposed to make, I feel like I'm playing well enough to do that.
Hopefully they go in better than today.  I didn't want to show Joe everything today.
Q. Which knee and have there been benefits?
BILL HAAS: My right knee is where I got the surgery, and so I was able to play on it I thought because I don't put a whole lot of weight on it.  But I really felt like in my swing I get on my left side too quickly.  I was just saying, Well, maybe I'm getting on my left side too quickly because my knee is not strong.  That's one reason I decided to do it.
So we'll just have to see if that's the case.  But feels pretty good, uh-huh.
Q. Is that left over from the accident?
BILL HAAS: No.  Actually injured it in December last year playing basketball by myself in the driveway.
Q. Step on a rock?
BILL HAAS: I don't know.  I don't know.  I thought I tore my ACL.  Didn't tear it fully.  Just has a little -- according to the doctor -- like torn a little bit, but not in half or whatever.  So just not as strong.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BILL HAAS: Just by myself, yeah.  Got no excuse other than I'm not that athletic I guess.
Q. Mentally you talk about putting things in perspective.  How hard is that while also not being satisfied with where you were right now as far as your game?  Is it a struggle back and forth?
BILL HAAS: 100%.  I think if you ask half the people they will say it's not a big deal.  Everything is good.  You're here.  It could be worse.
On the other side they say, Well, you need to go practice because you have an opportunity to do well at golf.  I think both are good perspectives to have.  I certainly would like to teach my kids that hard work pays off.  I'm not going to quit.  I'm certainly not going to give up.  I'm going to keep trying.
But at the same time, if it doesn't work out, then I have to believe that there is more to everything that's going on than whether or not I'm top 10 in the world.
Q. Who helped you the most all of last year?  Who pulled you up and put you back together and kept you going?
BILL HAAS: I think a number of things, a number of people.  My dad, my mom, certainly my wife.  I've had a ton of support.  The thought of the man and his family, the man that didn't make it in the accident and what his family is going through and how I have an opportunity and he doesn't, so that kind of gets me going.
Certainly don't feel sorry for myself and I'm not trying to say that at all.  I'm just lucky that I still have the opportunity to be here talking to you guys.
Q. Do you have any lingering injuries from that?
BILL HAAS: I don't think so, no.
Q. So is the ACL healed?
BILL HAAS: I don't think -- it doesn't heal itself so it's just weaker than the other one, I think, according to my doctor.  I don't think it'll ever -- again, I don't think I'm going to be playing pick-up ball or football because I think I could injury it worse.  It's fine to play golf, walk.  It's fine.
Q. So not going to play yourself in HORSE in the driveway?
BILL HAAS: I still shoot a lot, but I was running and by myself and trying to get exercise like you're supposed to.  Didn't work out.
Q. What are your options?  What do you do?
BILL HAAS: You know, honestly, I'll be figuring it out on the go.  I guess I'm back -- I do have some status as a past champion.  I'll get some starts and then hopefully ask for some sponsor starts and stuff like that and get in.
Then for the next couple years I still would have an option of top 50 all-time money to get my full status back for a year.  I would use that if I had to use it, but I'm trying to not to have to use it.  So I don't think I'm going anywhere for at least another couple years.  Just play better and earn my way.  If I top 10 here I earn my way into Vegas, and just go from there.
Q. If I understand this right, you've got to get 45 points.  What would that entail?  Winning it?
BILL HAAS: I think Top 8 somebody told me.  Top 8 by itself or better.  Truth is, if I'm in 9th place playing the last hole, I'm just going to be thinking about making a birdie anyway to try to better my position.
I don't know.  I don't know that I would play well thinking, We got to finish 9th or better or 8th or better.  I think I just have to go play golf and try to shoot the best I can shoot.  If I have a chance to do something good on Sunday, tackle it then.  It's a whole new position that I've been in.
Again, at the same time, I would love to see how I handle it.  I just don't like to put that pressure on me, all this or else, because then if I don't succeed, you know, I don't want to put myself down.
I just got to say, From here on out I got room to go up.  Just like a lot of other players out here have the same opportunity.  Just going to try to do my best, and if it doesn't work out this week...
I got to finish Top 8, so there are 128 guys trying to make that not happen and they're all really, really good.  Odds are maybe not.  At the same time, I think if I play my best I do think I could win this week, and that would take care of everything.
Q. When did you switch to the arm lock?
BILL HAAS: Used it in Napa for the first time.  Practiced with it at home some.  Just seen some players having success with it.  Thought it was worth giving it a try.  It felt okay for a few days in Napa and felt not so good for a few days.  I do think it's worth trying.
I am playing with Lucas this week and I know he does it, so I am interested to watch him putt and maybe after the rounds pick his brain with that because he's had some nice success.
Guy like Webb, a buddy of mine.  Seeing Keegan do very well with it.  But Keegan I think can putt with anything.  He can out ball-strike all of us, so things like that.  Don't know if the putter is the answer.  Matt Kuchar, watching him putt.  Never seems to miss a close putt.  I thought it was giving it a try.
Q. Is today your first time putting nontraditionally?
BILL HAAS: I used the belly putter for a few weeks and actually won the TOUR Championship that year with a belly putter, so I have had success with nontraditional.
Q. Talk to your dad much about your situation?  Do you all talk golf?
BILL HAAS: We definitely talk golf for sure.  I don't even know.  I think he would laugh if this is a "situation."  He would just say, Next week is another opportunity to go win a golf tournament.  I think he's played over 1000 golf tournaments, so he just views it as if you want to keep doing it, keep working at it and keep trying.
I think he would be the first to say that if golf doesn't work out there are more important things, and your family is pretty important.  Focus on them.  That's kind of where I am.  I don't really view it as a situation, but I don't know if I view it negatively.  I've got to view it as an opportunity.
THE MODERATOR: Okay, all right.  Appreciate your time.  Hope to see you right back here on Sunday.
BILL HAAS: Thanks, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT