DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2015
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BILL HAAS: They say don't hit it left, because then you hit it left.  Don't think about The Presidents Cup or don't think about making the team.  That makes you think about it, I guess.
And I felt those nerves, felt those pressures early.  I was 5 over through 19 holes and then came back all the way to even -- or, no, 1-under, even.  And just really at that point felt like I was going to keep going the other way.  I was just a little off with a lot of things.  And mentally I was a hair off, just because of that reason, just the stress or the pressure or whatever, just not quite there.  A couple of bad breaks, a couple of putts that could have gone.  And everyone can say that in this whole field.  I'm not relying on that.  But proud of the way I hung in there and did as good as I can do.
Q. Is it almost like you're being penalized for being your father's son right now?
BILL HAAS: I don't know.  I think -- I don't think so.  But I've talked about it with other people that I think it's unfair, if that's the way it's viewed.  If it's viewed as a penalty to be his son, then that's unfair.
Would I be thought of as a good choice if he wasn't my dad.  And if you say, yes, then I don't think he should think differently because I'm his son.  I don't know, part of me wants to say, well, he should pick me because I earned it, whether or not I'm his son or not.  And I think it would be selfishly -- it would be amazing to be in the team where my dad is the captain.  But I would say it would be amazing to be in the -- if I was in the team with Fred Couples.  Just to be part of that team would be unbelievable, to have him be the captain.  It's just cherry on top and something that we would always share.  But if it doesn't happen, I totally get it.
But I just hope he is not swayed by a writer or someone else in his ear saying he shouldn't pick him because it looks bad or whatever.  I don't think that's fair to me, to him -- I guess it would be fair to someone else to get chosen because of that.  But I just don't think that's going to be the case.  And I really don't think my dad is going to make a decision solely -- from what I understand he's relying on Davis and Fred and Strick and those guys to say what they think.
And so I think if I get chosen it's going to be because of my dad and those guys.  If I don't get chosen, it's going to be because those guys think another guy is a better choice, which will help make my dad's decision easier, whether it's a yea or a nay.  I don't want to put words in his mouth at all.
Either way I'm pleased with my year.  I hung in there a lot of times when I was struggling.  But then again I played some good golf and would love to be on the team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT