WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2015
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bill, really solid number out there. How would you rate that performance?
BILL HAAS: I played nice, honestly. One bad hole. I hit not a great iron on 12, plugged in a bunker and I was able to hack it out down the fairway short of the green and I didn't get up and down. Really if I could do one swing over again I might shoot 6, 7-under.
Good solid round. 5-under doesn't feel like great when you see all these great scores going but if I can shoot four of those I'll be right in it.

Q. Do you expect this golf course to evolve, maybe become more difficult?
BILL HAAS: The reason you're seeing such good scores is because of the rain. The fairways are soft, the greens are soft, so you're able to hold greens even if it's in the rough.
It's not the course's fault. The weather, that's what it's given us this week. You're going to see good scores but you could see it next year if it's firm and fast, you could see 10 to 12-under winning here playing a pretty tough test. That's just what we're given this week. You're going to need birdies and that's just how it is.

Q. Finally, you've been coming to this championship for a number of years and now for the first time Tiger Woods is here. Can you just speak about what he's done to this event by being here?
BILL HAAS: I played behind him today. It was unlike anytime I played. Just hearing -- certainly the All Pro Tiger pulling for him. He played great. That's what he needed, that's what this tournament needed. It's just good for everybody. 
I'm glad he's here because it's good for events like this to have him here and it's great for our game and, you know, I'm glad he played well and hopefully we can catch him.

Q. Bill, always nice to birdie the last hole, great iron shot in there to stick it inside four feet. Finish at 5-under par. Your thoughts on how you played today.
BILL HAAS: Yeah, nice solid round. One bad iron shot, the 12th hole maybe for me I hit a hard 3-iron to even get it there and I just got out in front of it and pushed it, missed the green to the right and buried underneath the lip which it could have easily just been in the middle of the bunker and maybe I get it up and down and ended up making double there. 
Outside of that one swing, I really feel like I played a nice, solid round.

Q. This course was wet yesterday and we had a ton of rain again last night. How getable was this layout today?
BILL HAAS: Yeah, ball in hand so the -- the wetness didn't really play a factor because you get a perfect lie from the fairway. But then even from the rough if you don't have ball in hand the greens are soft enough to where it's holding the ball. The course is somewhat defenseless because this course, even though it's not overly long, if you do miss a fairway usually the firm greens is what makes it difficult and unfortunately you're able to hit it close from pretty much anywhere and but with that said, you still got to make the putts and still hit the shots and it's still a great golf course. I mean if you talk to any player they're going to say they like this place.

Q. How much fun is it to play here close to Wake Forest, close to family and friends and obviously with Tiger here this week, huge galleries to support this event?
BILL HAAS: Yeah. I love coming back. I would play -- I'm going to play every year. It's great having Tiger play. I heard he committed when he missed the cut last week. I think it's great for the game, great for this tournament and certainly good for Tiger. He showed today that he's still got it, still good and he's going to be the man to beat if he continues playing like he's playing. You know, all around great that he's here.

Q. Well done today, continued success this week.
BILL HAAS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT