WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2018
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had eight birdies and three bogeys.  Talk a little bit about the day and what it was like to be paired with Justin as well.  
BILL HAAS: Yeah, it was a great day.  I feel bad for Justin, his back nine there he really hit one loose shot and then unfortunate there on 16 with a couple missed putts.  But it was fun watching him start off birdieing the first six holes -- and I birdied three of the first six, was feeling pretty good, but at the same time that motivates you knowing that you're getting beat pretty easily here.  Then obviously the way I bogeyed the 8, 9 and 10, going back to even par, feeling like I'm out of the tournament.  So to finish with five birdies, very pleased with that.   
 Q.  What are you going to have to do tomorrow do you think to pull this one off on Super Bowl Sunday?  
BILL HAAS: I'm going to have to just putt really, really well.  You watch all the leaders and the guys that win week-in and week-out they make all the putts that you have to make.  And then drive it a little better.  I think this course, the way they redesigned it, if you drive it well you can still attack it.  And if you're a little loose off the tee you can make a big number pretty quick.  So those are my two keys tomorrow and we'll see.   
 Q.  You shot an opening round 64, yesterday you're 1-over, today 5-under.  What was the difference today?  
BILL HAAS: The putter again.  I think my good scores -- any time you shoot a good score you have to putt pretty nice.  I bounced back today with some nice irons on the back nine.  Made a few of those 3-, 4-footers that you have to make to keep your round going.  Unfortunately didn't have a great second round but still somewhat in it going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  What about this course do you like that will set up nicely for you tomorrow?  
BILL HAAS: I just think with this weather there hasn't been much wind, I'm able to still have somewhat short irons in.  When you watch guys like Justin Thomas, some of these longer hitters, they can really attack this course -- every course they can attack with their length -- and with the warm weather I'm able to hang up there with them a decent amount.  This year with the great weather, it fits my eye a little bit.   
 Q.  Considering who is at the top of this leaderboard, the energy at this kind of event, what does it mean to you to play well here?  
BILL HAAS: It means a lot.  Coming down tomorrow the energy will be maybe not as electric as today with people watching the Super Bowl, but it will be exciting and you just want to have a chance.  The guys that win here I got to imagine this one is pretty special to them to be able to hold on and win on a course like this.   
 Q.  Obviously a great day, 5-under round, in contention.  Talk about your round.  It looked like a good group out there.  
BILL HAAS: Yeah, it felt good early.  Obviously watching Justin get off to such a hot start was a lot of fun.  I fell back the other way, I bogeyed 8, 9 and 10 with maybe the hardest hole on the course coming up.  My state of mind was certainly reeling the other way.  So pretty pumped, pretty proud of the way I was able to make some birdies coming in to turn into a good round.  It could have been a great round if I would have played a little better there in the middle of the round, but overall very pleased.   
 Q.  Is it one of those things that once you got the crowd going in your favor you felt the momentum coming down the home stretch?  
BILL HAAS: I think this place, the galleries is in everybody's favor if you're playing well, because they cheer for a good shot and they will boo you for a bad one.  So it's motivation to play well and hit great shots and make putts, because you don't want to be on the receiving end of a bunch of boos.   
 Q.  A lot of great scores today throughout.  Is it one of those things that the course, you play it but you're scoreboard watching as well or focusing in on your game?  
BILL HAAS: I think with this weather, with it being warm, the ball's going, not much breeze to contend with, guys are going to shoot good scores.  So I think you just got to know that an even par, 1-under is just, it's great, but it's not going to do you much good.  So out there you're taking advantage of your good drives and that's when you're aggressive.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you to win on Sunday and your thought process going into the final round?  
BILL HAAS: No different thought process, other than I have not been in this situation in a while and I have been struggling quite a bit for the start of this year, so happy to be in the mix first of all and then from there just try to go shoot good, hit good golf shots and then take advantage with the putter and if I putt well tomorrow I think I can hang in there with the leaders.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT