THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 2, 2015
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Very solid first round.  I think you wanted to get a little bit lower here in the first round with the changing weather conditions.BILL HAAS: Yeah, I wouldn't say we had the tough end of the wave, but we certainly played in I think a little bit more rain.  I didn't see how much they played in this morning, but conditions, still, there was hardly any wind, greens were soft, so it was out there.  I really just drove the ball not very well. To shoot 4-under, I'm very pleased because I think that's about as good as I could have shot.  To hit it out of bounds on 11, that's about 60 yards off my target almost, so I certainly need to figure that out if I'm going to contend.  I think it's nice to shoot a good round, but I don't think I can keep that up, so if I can figure something out with my golf swing, my putter feels pretty nice, so it's not far off.  I think if I can fix a little something here, tweak there, then I can contend this weekend.Q. How enjoyable is this week on the PGA TOUR for you and your family?  You almost run out of adjectives at some point about this location.BILL HAAS: Yeah, I mean, it's been a place that my family quickly has adopted as a place to come along with everyone else.  I've heard it's a record in the day care for the TOUR families.  I don't know how many kids are here.  It's great.  It's something for everyone.  I think the adults enjoy it just as much as the kids.  It's certainly a place that any family would enjoy on vacation.Q. Comments on a good day?BILL HAAS: Yeah, I kind of hung in there, made some nice putts just to be able to shoot a good score, because my driver wasn't great, ball-striking wasn't as good as it could have been, so my putter held me in there today.  I'm planning to go hit a few here before dinner and maybe find something, but if not just try to hit a couple good ones on the range to give me positive thoughts for tomorrow.Q. Birdies on three of the first four holes, did that kind of help calm any first-round nerves you had?BILL HAAS: I think the only nerves I have are just maybe let's get off to a good start.  I wouldn't say I was overly nervous, but certainly any time you start that way, it makes you want to shoot a low round, and with that said, 4-under is good, but obviously had the potential to shoot 6 or 7, which would have been nice, but it's out there, and I think I can do it tomorrow.Q. What is it about this place that suits your game?BILL HAAS: I don't know.  I mean, I think I enjoy the greens.  I roll the ball on these pretty nice.  You know, somewhat of a decent iron player usually.  I wasn't great today, but I do think with the greens being soft, you have to throw darts, and I think that's where you've got to take advantage.  But with that said, I think if you can drive the ball in the fairway here, if you can hit most of your fairways, you're going to have a bunch of birdie looks, so that's kind of the key in my opinion.  You can probably say that for every golf course, but tomorrow if I can drive the ball a little better, I think I can give myself more looks.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT