THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2015
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tell us about your day and how you're feeling right now.BILL HAAS: I feel disappointed knowing -- I just think of two 3-footers right out of the gate, No. 2, after two great shots, and then number 9, 3-putting from 12 feet behind the hole, so, bam, two shots there and I'm the winner. But with that said, I made some nice birdies on the back, to make this taste a little better, I guess, but when you're in those positions, finishing one back hurts.  I don't care what you say and certainly playing for a lot, no matter what, one shot worse is better than two shots worse than the winner, so I guess I'm happy about that. Gave myself a chance.  I thought if I birdied 18 I had a chance.  Looked like Kisner would maybe miss one.  I was hoping he would make that, but one, I had a putt from the fringe to get in a playoff and that's what you play for.  I was proud of myself the way I clawed back. But certainly going to be kicking myself, I mean both those putts were just really bad putts.  The first one on No. 2 I was indecisive and I kind of pushed it. No. 9, the green was the worst looking green, just had been chopped up, a lot of footprints.  And I just was tentative and I just pushed it.  It was just both really bad strokes that I can maybe draw on in the future just say, hey, stay in this thing, really grind on this, don't just wish it up there and hope it goes in, make this putt.  Those are two I wish I could do over.Q. What was the theater like, just so many guys in the mix?BILL HAAS: The first half for me it was horrible because I was going the other way and the leaders were going one way.  So I wasn't much theater to watch or to be a part of. But then I think when Rickie, I -- I birdied 14 and I saw Rickie posted 12 and I said, all right, I got to make three more.  It was, all of a sudden, my mentality changed a little, because for some reason I felt all day like I was chasing Sergio and it still, he still may be the guy, I guess, he's in the playoff, correct?  But I felt like I was chasing him. So the whole day he was just three ahead of me and I was like, all right, three birdies, three birdies, and then, bam, I was four back.  All of a sudden I had to say, all right, well, here we go. I was proud of myself the way I birdied 14 and 15.  I was certainly -- but certainly 16, 12 feet for eagle, I mean about as easy of a putt as you get.  I think I pulled it a little bit.  It was left the whole way.  I would like to see it again, just to see if I did pull it bad or if it broke a little more. And then 17, not a good wedge shot, but almost.  That could have gone in.  It was -- certainly the guy that wins here seems to always make a long putt like Sergio did.  I was wanting that to go in for sure, but.Q. Where were you?BILL HAAS: Middle of the green on 17.  Had to make that one down the slope like Kaymer did over the slope.Q. Where were you on 17 when Sergio made the putt and what was your reaction to that?BILL HAAS: I was on the tee and it was a loud roar and the hair on your arms stand up a little bit it's like, oh, man, this is cool. But then it makes you think you can do it, I guess.  For me I was like, all right, he just made birdie, I can make birdie.  I just birdied the last three, so why not make it four. That motivated me.  It was nice to know that, only one back, here we go, let's just do it. Last two holes there, I just didn't hit the quite the quality shots.  Honestly, the tee shot on 18 was a real good shot.  I was disappointed to see where it ended up there.Q. Did you have branches on your approach shot?BILL HAAS: Yeah, I had to chip an 8-iron low.  I maybe could have gone left of them, but then I would have to start at the water and out of the rough that might not cut. I felt comfortable using the ground.  When I hit it, I thought I pulled it off.  I thought it was going to roll right up there.  But it is what it is, disappointing.Q. What was your club into 16, yardage and club.BILL HAAS: 228, 240 something hole and I hit 5-wood and on number 11 I hit a 5-wood awful, pulled left, barely made par there and so I kind of told myself, well, this is redemption for this club, because it's the same kind of shot.  Wind left-to-right, hurting, water, you can't go right, water right.  And then that was a fun shot to hit, because I executed that about as good as I could.  I was proud of that shot.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT