THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2015
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BILL HAAS: Obviously pleased there with my finish, but the front nine, I think I played tee to green good enough to win today.  Those putts on the front were just so bad.  I was kind of just searching for something on the greens, made a nice one there at 10 to kind of cool me down a little bit. But knowing I needed to birdie the last five to win is not where you want to be.  So, I wish I could have put myself in a better position and maybe done something on the last couple.Q. What are the positives you take away, despite some of the frustrations as well?BILL HAAS: Certainly I got some work to do on the greens, but I think I'm working on some good things with my swing.  This is my best finish by far at this place.  This is one of our best and toughest tests, so to be double digit under par I'm doing some good things, hopefully I'll putt a little better the next event.Q. Are you happy with your round today and your performance overall over the week?BILL HAAS: For the week, for sure, very pleased.  But the front nine today is tough.  Two really close putts that I kind of was trying to tell myself during the round that those aren't going to cost you, keep grinding.  But they ended up costing me.  Honestly, I think, losing by one, missing two 3-footers on Sunday, that hurts a little bit. But proud of the way I finished there on the last few holes and certainly would like to have been one better to be in this playoff, but it was great theater, it was exciting for the fans and I was happy to be a part of it.Q. And it is a really great show here as well.  What's it like going around the course?  Do you like the course here?BILL HAAS: I do like it.  I think it's hard, but the back nine certainly there's a lot of birdie opportunities as you've seen.  I think Rickie played the last 4- or 5-under so.  I don't know if that's true or not.  Sergio birdieing 16, 17.  Lots of fun for the fans.Q. What's the pressure like?BILL HAAS: Well, today, there's pressure, I felt more pressure early, maybe that's why my putter struggled. But towards the end I knew what I had to do, I was three down with four to go and I needed to make three birdies, all of a sudden I didn't feel as much pressure.  But in the big scheme of things it is a tough place to win and the best players in the world are here, it was fun being a part of it.  I wish I could have been one shot better.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT