THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2015
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Bill Haas at 5-under today, five shots better than round 1.  What was the biggest difference for you?  BILL HAAS: My ball-striking was a little bit better.  Yesterday I think I only hit nine greens and luckily my putter was pretty good early to even let me shoot even par.  Both rounds I did some good things, and hopefully this weekend, hopefully ball-striking gets a little bit better each day, and if the putter is hot, you just never know.   Q.  Looking at your stats it's not something you see, 25 putts, which is really good, especially on this course.  Today at 5-under par, 29 putts.  You said your putter was a little bit better yesterday but overall from tee to green much better today, right?  BILL HAAS: Much better today.  You want it to be a little less stressful, and I still had a few good saves, but overall this course puts a premium on hitting fairways, and from there you've just got to hit greens if you want to stay away from all those bogeys.   Q.  The most important green to hit, of course, is 17, and you were closest to the pin with three feet until Erik Compton literally just snuck in inside of you, so if you can talk me through that hole today and the pin placement.  BILL HAAS: Yeah, a little into the wind today.  The pin was all in the back, and I didn't feel like a 9-iron could go over, so it freed me up a little bit to hit a pretty smooth driving range strength 9-iron, and luckily it was nice to look up and see it going at the flag.   Q.  Pretty good playing today.  BILL HAAS: Yeah, today, we still had a little bit of breeze.  It certainly was tougher yesterday afternoon.  This morning pretty calm conditions, and it was nice to get off to a good start on that back nine.  Made a few birdies there.  No. 1 and 2 are holes you can get if you hit good shots.  All of a sudden I looked up and I was 5-under.  Kind of happened out of nowhere.  And then the whole front nine, there's some birdie holes, but honestly from 5 on, you're kind of -- you've got to hit really good shots just to make pars.  That's kind of the way I played coming in there was just kind of holding on and hoping to make a long one, but I know I didn't have any good looks coming in.   Q.  You like this course, don't you?  BILL HAAS: I do.  It's a premium on ball-striking, and I think if you do hit it well, anyone can win, which I think is a great quality about this golf course.  You don't just see the bombers winning.  It's good for everyone.  I think when you leave here and if you don't shoot well, there's usually no second-guessing why it happened.  You probably mis-hit it a little bit or you putted poorly, and if you do well here, you've earned it, and that's what I like about it.   Q.  You hit a bunch of greens today, too.  BILL HAAS: Much more than yesterday.  It didn't feel that bad, didn't feel much different than today, just a few loose iron shots here and there, and like I said, it was a lot windier, so I maybe hit some bad ones trying to hit some certain kind of shot, but certainly today put a little less pressure on my putting.  I putted better yesterday than today to shoot even.  Hopefully I don't have any more rounds like that.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT