WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 29, 2015
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You made some nice putts?  
    BILL HAAS:   I made some nice putts, I was kind of playing solid and made three birdies in a row, and he was making nice pars.   I happened to get lucky on some long putts.   
    On the back nine, I felt good other than I guess it was 11 there or 10, and he made bogey and I had 20 feet to go 5‑up and I three‑putted.   Just kind of‑‑ I don't want to say I was not paying attention, but I just took it for granted.   
    And then all of a sudden I three‑putted two holes later, and then I was only 3‑up.   And then he birdied the par‑3 and I was only 2‑up.   I said, dang, we've only got five holes left and I'm only 2‑up.   It seemed like it was going the other way.   
    Luckily, on 14, I made a 20‑footer out of the fringe and he had eight feet for birdie.   And I made that and he missed.   And that was a big moment because I certainly was leaking oil and he was gaining some momentum.   Fortunate the way it ended up on the last few.  
   
 Q.   Great weather out there today.   How did the golf course play?  
    BILL HAAS:   It played good.   If it was stroke play, you'd see some good scores.   The greens are still somewhat firm.   If you're not hitting the fairways, you'd see some numbers over par, but generally you'd see a bunch of 3, 4 and 5‑under.   So that's what you had to do today to win a match was be a few under.  
   
 Q.   With the change of the format, does that affect your mindset coming into this week?  
    BILL HAAS:   I think either format you had to play well and you had to win matches.   If you lose a match, you're done either way, pretty much.   Obviously, Brendon, if he wins the next two and I lose a couple, he goes.   But that's the neat part.   I think he goes home tonight saying, all right, I can win these next two matches and I can still move on.   And I've got to think, all right, I've got to go win tomorrow to control my fate.  
   
 Q.   Have you thought towards tomorrow and John Senden?  
    BILL HAAS:   Not really.   He's a great ball‑striker.   And I think this is a ball‑striker's course.   I think I've got to be on my game.   I've got to putt a little better, the way I did on the back nine.   Just keep the ball in front of me and make him make birdies to beat me, I guess is my goal.   But I guess that's the way you play anybody.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT