MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How would you assess your round today?
BILL HAAS:   I played solid.   My two bogeys were a bad drive at 18 cost me.   With that said, I hit a nice bunker shot to about six feet. 
I made a few of those today.   So I felt good over that and I thought that I really would have liked to have made that one. 
But I made a couple nice putts.   I made about a 12‑footer for par on 3 and about a 12‑footer for par on 16.   So those kind of evened out my two bogeys.
I got to say that 3‑under was close to as good as I could have done today, so I'm pleased.

Q.   Some of the guys were talking about pin placements and it felt like Sunday.   How much would you agree with that?
BILL HAAS:   There was some tough ones, but I think maybe they did that because they knew the greens were soft.   If you drove it well, you certainly could still be aggressive on some pins.   But there was a few that, if you missed a little bit, it was almost guaranteed bogey. 
So, certainly didn't shoot myself out of the tournament.   Very pleased with anything in the 60s on this place.   I've only done it a couple times, so.

Q.   How much did you feel the pace of play was a little slow?
BILL HAAS:   It was slow, especially toward the end I thought, and maybe that was because it felt like it was 90 out there.   So when you were standing around is when it seemed the hottest and the toughest to focus, maybe. 
But overall, it was a pretty nice gay for golf.   It was hot, but a little bit of breeze, greens were softer, rolled perfect on Thursday here.   I mean, there was no excuse for a missed putt other than a bad putt.   So, hard to blame anything on slow play or anything like that.   I thought it was a nice day. 

Q.   Last thing, speaking of weather and hot.   Tomorrow, hot, thunderstorms, rain.   You're going to go off later.   How much does that affect your mindset going into Friday?
BILL HAAS:   I just think you have to ‑‑ you certainly can't dwell on what could happen.   I mean, whatever is going to happen is going to happen and you have to roll with it.   But hopefully the thunderstorms stay away. 
I know anything could pop up at any time around here.   This is where I'm from, so ‑‑ or right up the road, at least.   A thunderstorm or two, might have to get pulled off the course, might have to get shuttled back out there.   That's just something you have to deal with.
Аф



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT