WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2015
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First let's talk about the round, eight birdies, one bogey, 65 puts you right back into contention.   What a great move for you today. 
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, thank you.   I mean honest will I the first day I might have played my best tee‑to‑green golf and shot a couple over. 
Today, I played well but just capitalized on almost every opportunity that I had, and when I did hit a loose shot, I seemed to have an okay shot and I was able to play. 
Yesterday I played okay.   Just finished, I was 3‑under and bogeyed four of my last six, which can happen out here.   And I guess I knew that on the back nine when I got to about 4‑under.   And I was like, well, I guess maybe that focused me a little bit coming in, any shot you can turn a 68 into a 72 here pretty quick.   You know, was able to hold on there. 

Q.   When I was out following you, you had legitimate birdie looks; are hole locations more gettable today?
BILL HAAS:   I think so.   The TOUR is doing a good job, I think a lot of these greens seemed to welcome a wedge where we are hitting 4‑irons and 5‑irons so they have done a good job on a lot of holes of keeping them playable, and if you do execute a good shot, you can have a good look but it will be a tough test. 
I think tomorrow, the wind always blows down, so the pins maybe will be tougher.   But just happy to shoot‑‑ I didn't believe I could shoot in the 60s on this golf course, so very pleased to shoot a good round. 

Q.   Congratulations on the baby.   You didn't want to miss this event, did you. 
BILL HAAS:   I talked to my wife about it a bunch.   I felt like the Top‑50 players in the world are here, and I think it's fun to stack your game up against them.   No matter how I do, it's fun to play against these guys and be a part of it. 
My son got home safely and my wife is feel pretty good, we have a bunch of help back home, so they this handle it better than maybe that I'm not there.   So I look forward to going home for sure.

Q.   Thought you didn't like playing in the wind. 
BILL HAAS:   I don't.   Nobody does, really.   You've just got to hit good golf shots.   Hit some solid ones coming down the stretch.   We were lucky, it was blowing all day, but the last four or five holes is when it started picking up with this little storm front coming in.   Executed some nice iron shots down the stretch.

Q.   Was it an advantage playing early or will these guys have more wind? 
BILL HAAS:   I don't know, obviously I would love to play later.   That's part of the game, playing early and playing late, but obviously I think we got a number of holes with lesser wind than what's going on right now.   Happy to be done. 

Q.   One bogey all day. 
BILL HAAS:   One bogey, No. 4.   I made double there the first day.   So those bunkers were looking pretty good to me and I did I hit it in the bunkers.   Hit a nice bunker shot about six feet and just missed the putt.

Q.   You don't hit a lot of fairways, but you do great with the up‑and‑down. 
BILL HAAS:   You're right, I don't hit a lot of fairways and I think that's what I'm going to need to do tomorrow if I want to contend is I have to drive it better.   Very pleased to be under par, shoot an under par round because like you say, I have not driven the ball all that great but I was able to capitalize on my opportunities today.

Q.   You played a different course of the others today?
BILL HAAS:   No, I think this course, it lends it.   You have to hitthe one shot they are making you hit, and if you don't, you can make double; and if you do, you can make birdie.   There is no really ‑‑ hit it to the safe shot and make par, which a lot of courses we play, there's a safe miss.   I think there's a lot of holes where there's no such thing as a safe miss.   Therefore, that's why you're seeing low scores and high scores.   You're not seeing a bunch of even pars, does that make sense?   That's my take on it. 
Today I was fortunate, like No. 3 is I great example.   I hit a nice iron that was about three feet left of it and I made birdie and if I had been five feet left, I don't think I could have kept it on the green just from that bunker from where that pin is.   Just fortunate that it all worked out one round, at least. 

Q.   The margin of doing really well and not so well. 
BILL HAAS:   I think so.   I think that's why you're seeing J.B. was ridiculous, 10‑under but then he probably‑‑ he said he didn't play bad yesterday and he shot 1‑over.   Sounds like a good 1‑over because he hit fourballs in the water.   He's obviously playing well but I think that's what this course will do to you and if you're not playing well, I think you can shoot a high number really quick.   Hopefully I can strike it off the tee a little better tomorrow and maybe have a good day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT