HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 23, 2015
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   9‑under it on this course you got to be happy about that.   But talk about birdieing nine of the last 11 holes?
BILL HAAS:   I got off to a slow start, I was even through, I guess my first seven holes and with two par‑5's on that side you feel like you should get those.   So I was plodding along and then Brandt's playing well, he was maybe 3‑ or 4‑under at that time, so I just was ready to, I needed to start making putts and the putter is what's been really good for me the first two rounds. 
The ball striking certainly was pretty good on that back nine, obviously, to shoot 7‑under, it's got to be decent, but the putter was what's got me in the hunt for sure so far. 

Q.   Pros talk about how great these greens are, but how good have they been rolling for you if you got the line?
BILL HAAS:   We don't play better greens on TOUR than these greens here. 
Augusta maybe they're faster, but when it comes to smooth necessary and just if you hit a quality putt is pretty much tracks towards its hole and certainly makes it a lot of fun for us.

Q.   That birdie run is that one of the best runs you've had in your career?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, nine out of 10 holes, certainly you're not going to do that many times.   Usually if it's going to happen, it's going to happen here in the desert.   So that's why we all like coming here, it's a great way to start the year, get some good scores under your belt, and obviously with two rounds left there's opportunity I'm going to need to go low because it's not like I'm leading or anything, I still got to get it going, even with some good scores. 

Q.   Overall, what do you need to do throughout the weekend to continue scoring well?
BILL HAAS:   I think my ball striking has got to improve if I want to keep it going.   Because the putter, when you get a little nerves, it's not as easy to make putts on the weekend.   So certainly ball striking, if I can clean that up a little bit, then I think I can have a chance on the weekend. 

Q.   You've won out here before, I think it's been since Mickelson in 2004 that a guy has won here for his second time.   He asked you that question, so I don't want to repeat it, what it would take to win again, but to come back to a place where you've won, it's got to be a good feeling when you come back and you're in the hunt again?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, the desert in general, La Quinta, Palm Desert, I come out here and practice a little bit in the off season, just to kind of start the year.   I've been here since last Wednesday.   I think I just get accustomed to the turf out here and I certainly like playing in less wind.   I think tomorrow the wind's supposed to pick up, so I think that's going to make it more challenging, you won't see as many low scores tomorrow.   So, yeah, I mean the time, any place you've won before, you got those, you can rely on that, if you got a tough putt you say well hey, you've done it before, so why can't you do it now and it's always nice to rely on these experiences.

Q.   When you say that you've been out here before in recent days at Toscana?
BILL HAAS:   Right.

Q.   You still working with Bill Harmon over there?
BILL HAAS:   Right, I work with Bill Harmon and my dad came out with me as well Wednesday just to kind of start his week off so me my dad and Bill Harmon, they're both working with me, trying to get me straight and but also just kind of going around, we hit balls in the morning and then go play and be done by 1 o'clock and it's just fun for me to play with my dad.   And play with any of the Harmons, especially Billy and to get their expertise, certainly helps.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT