DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2014
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you describe your round?BILL HAAS: Today I was a little scrappy.  Yesterday I really played nice.  And pretty simple form. Today I got away with a few bad swings, and certainly maybe left a couple out there.  But I made up for it a few times scrambling, and getting up and down.  Overall pleased.  Hopefully I can button it up on the weekend or the next two rounds.  But happy to be where I am.Q. Obviously a good week to improve your position in the FedExCup standings.  But I'm sure you and a lot of other players know it's the final opportunity to impress Tom Watson.  How much is that motivating you?BILL HAAS: It's a motivator all year long, I think.  I didn't put myself in position to be a lock or anything like that.  So it's a win/win for me.  I play well, I'm happy, because that means I'm moving up in the FedExCup.  And then also it gives me an opportunity to get picked.  I have no other option, you know, other than -- the top two, probably to be considered.  So I'm just going out and trying to play my best.  And a finish in the top-10 would be great for the week and for the tournament.  But it probably doesn't do anything for me for the Ryder Cup.  So I'm just trying to give myself an opportunity on Sunday.Q. The wind is picking up, the greens are really firm.  You have to be pleased with the 2-under round?BILL HAAS: I am.  Especially considering I did not feel that comfortable on the tee.  Yesterday I played really nice.  And it's just amazing how this game can change daily. I just didn't feel quite comfortable on some of those tee shots, and hit a couple of balls that I got lucky and was able to play.  Aside from No. 4, the easiest hole on the course, probably, making bogey there hurt.  I hung in there nice and proud to shoot a couple under.Q. The scores are usually really, really low.  Henrik was 22-under last year.  But the conditions are totally different.  This is a different track when it's dried out.BILL HAAS: Absolutely.  Mainly the greens being firm.  If you don't hit the fairways, you can hardly hit it close.  I will say I've always said this course is not that easy, and these guys are shooting low numbers the last few years.  And I think you're seeing the true test this course has.  Even though you're probably hitting shorter irons in if you hit good tee balls, because the fairways are running.  The greens are more difficult, for sure.Q. Former FedExCup champion, you have to be excited about the playoffs, do you get a little more fired up playing in the playoffs?BILL HAAS: I do.  I think we all do, though.  I was very fortunate, probably 20 things had to go my way to win the FedExCup that year.  And they all seemed to happen.  I was very fortunate.  But it also makes me realize that I'm going to have to win each and every week.  You have to try to keep putting yourself in the position.  And you never know what will happen in this game.  So far so good.  Two more good days this week, will go a long way.  And certainly would like to give myself a chance to win here.Q. And football season is under way, and your Demon Deacons took is on the chin against LA Monroe, I guess you're not worried about that early?BILL HAAS: No.  I would like to see Deacons win.  I am a fan of them, no matter what.  I'm pulling for them.  They've got a new coach in there.  The quarterback looked okay.  The offensive line wasn't protecting very well.  Hopefully those guys can get on the same page and win a few games.Q. I knew you'd give us a nice analysis of that game.  You watched?BILL HAAS: I did watch.  I'm a fan, and it's just unfortunate a small school, hard to get the five star athletes in there.Q. Comments on your round today.  2-under par?BILL HAAS: 2-under today.  Definitely a different day.  I think it's a little more breezy, it's from a different direction.  I thought it played somewhat difficult.  But there's still some scores out there.  I saw Kuchar is 5- or 6-under today.  You can still do it.  The greens are perfect.  They're firm, but if you're hitting good shots you can make a lot of putts.Q. Is it easier now that you've got yourself into contention?BILL HAAS: I mean maybe so, certainly easier if I was 3-over right now.  I'd certainly be out of it.  But I don't think you need to -- I'm definitely not putting that pressure on myself.  One week is certainly not going to make me make the team.  And I'm certainly not going to make the team unless I win, probably.  And that's what I'm trying to do anyway.  I think I just try to focus on this week, focusing on the TOUR Championship, trying to keep moving forward.  And if the Ryder Cup happens, it happens.  It would be a huge bonus to a pretty solid year.Q. (Inaudible.)BILL HAAS: Yeah, deservingly so, I think.  I don't know if I was 20th in the standings.  I don't think I deserved to be on the radar.  But with the Wyndham, playing well there, and last week playing pretty solid.  This week obviously I think I need a win, so it is what it is.  But that's my ultimate goal, anyway. So I might as well go out there and try to do it.  Would certainly love to be on that team.  But a lot of deserving players.  Fortunately for me I think the best player this week might get the nod.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT