WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2014
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just one shy.
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, I played nice.   I had a really good day.   It was kind of nice having Camilo in front of me seeing what he was doing, he was playing well.   I knew I couldn't exactly put it in kind of slowdown mode and obviously the guys behind us looking like I'm going to finish 4th or 5th shooting 64 on Sunday.   Lot of good scores.   Greens are just perfect.   Testament to this golf course.   The scores are good.   The course isn't that easy.   The course is in great shape.   The ball is rolling nice.   If you get the ball on line you'll see a lot of putts go in.

Q.   You knew when you got 18 you needed a birdie.   Toughest hole in the world trying to birdie when you need one.   Great tee shot. 
BILL HAAS:   It's tough.   I was in between clubs.   The 16th hole down the hill I had an 8-iron and flew it 180 yards over the green.   Little bit of adrenaline, juiced up and I only had 166 to the hole.   The wind with that pin I kind of want to draw something into it.   It just -- 8-iron seemed like too much club.   I hit a 9 and hit a nice shot.   I was proud of the shot I hit. 
It was a club -- I was a club off again, just a hair short and just not close enough to have a realistic chance.   30 feet, obviously I was trying to make it and by four feet but disappointing.   Hit a nice shot and not get it close.

Q.   Finally you're inside the Top 30 now after this finish in FedExCup point standings.   Your thoughts on your game as we go to Barclays next week.
BILL HAAS:   Anytime you have a good round on Sunday you take positives from it.   I'm looking forward to the next four weeks.   Playing a lot of golf right now, try to get some rest and just see what happens. 
Really doesn't matter unless you're in the Top-10, doesn't matter so this is just more points to add to it and I'm going to need to play good golf the next few weeks if I want to make it to Atlanta.

Q.   Good stuff today.
BILL HAAS:   Nice day.   I was 3-under through 5.   I got up on the 7th tee, made par on 6 and got up on the 7th tee feeling good.   I saw Camilo was 5-under through 6, already two ahead of me.   That wasn't even talking about the leader. 
So, I knew right out of the gates I would need to shoot a good score.   Felt like I gave myself some chances.   I had a nice look at 14, nice look at 17 and a good drive at 18.   I just needed a better iron shot to get myself a little closer.   Made some putts, too, but certainly I would like to do that putt over on 17 and 18.

Q.   Talk about momentum for The Playoffs.   Do you feel like you got it now?
BILL HAAS:   I think so.   The swing feels pretty good.   Putter was better this week.   Anytime you have a good week you take positives and build on that.   Always enjoy coming to Greensboro.   This makes me want to come back.

Q.   Being in the hunt again, only three Top-10s, you got the juices flowing.
BILL HAAS:   I haven't had that many great finishes.   To be in the hunt, 16, 17, 18 I felt like I hit quality shots under the gun and pressure and I'm proud of that.   Take that into the next time I'm in that position and maybe I can hit some good shots and capitalize.

Q.   Do you look back at the double bogey where the ball falls on the fan and goes out of bounce? 
BILL HAAS:   Anytime you look and say I wish I could have played that hole a little better.   18 for sure I played it 3-over par for the week.   That's a hole that I would like to redo.   That's a big swing.   It's a hard hole but you got the play it better than that.

Q.   Standing in the fairway knowing you got to get a birdie on that hole.
BILL HAAS:   I was in between clubs.   That's what we said, we got to make birdie.   Kind of a good feeling knowing what you have to do.   You can't really bail and hopefully two-putt.   I hit an 8-iron over the green on 16 and I had less yardage on that shot on 18.   So I hit the 9-iron trying to turn one in there and it was just the wrong club.   I executed like I wanted to, just I was going off of a couple swings before that and I don't know if it was wind or it plays uphill, ball might not have carried that much.   In the air I was liking it.   To see it be 30 feet is disappointing.

Q.   Not many weeks you shoot 16 under par and don't win.
BILL HAAS:   Take the positives that any other year that might have won this week.   Certainly 16-under any week in the next four weeks will win a tournament.   Just at that time positives and try to keep going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT