WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2014
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Better round today?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah.   Today wasn't, you know -- yesterday was better except for the one last hole.   Today, I had another bad hole, made a 6 on probably the easiest hole on the course, No. 5. 
So, overall I got to be pleased.   If I can somehow do those two holes over again today on 5 and yesterday on 18 I'm right there in the mix if not leading.   So, I think I'll be in a good position. 
Leader might be about 14.   I'll give them a couple coming in here.   So, get out to a decent start tomorrow, you never know what will happen.

Q.   How about your game overall?
BILL HAAS:   I need to hit it in the fairway a little more.   I don't feel quite as good off the tee.   My irons are good and my putter felt nice this week.   If you can get it in the fairway on this course you can make some birdies.   Tomorrow that will be my key, just getting it off the tee a little better.

Q.   Doesn't seem like people are moving forward as much today, maybe some of the guys --
BILL HAAS:   Some tricky pins.   If you didn't hit it in the fairway a lot of pins were almost impossible to hit it close to.   The last couple holes I hit the in the rough and I had 50 feet for birdie.   That kind of just the way it was.   If you hit in it fairway you can maybe be aggressive.   If you miss the fairways were you lucky to have a birdie putt.   Tomorrow will be -- that will be the key, if I can hit it in the fairway, I think you can score.

Q.   Is it kind of, I mean does it get your juices flowing a little bit to be this close to the lead?
BILL HAAS:   For sure, anytime.   I haven't been there enough this year.   This is the reason I played this week is to go into The Playoffs feeling good and hopefully have a good finish and I'm in position to do that so, you know, looking forward to this week and tomorrow and obviously the next few weeks.

Q.   Trying to keep Ryder Cup out of your mind?
BILL HAAS:   It really -- it's not even in my mind that much, honestly, because I'm so far back and the only way I'm going to be considered if I win so that's all I want to do anyway is try to win so that's all I'm focusing on is tomorrow. 
It's probably going to need a 64, 65.   But it's doable out here.   I've been close the last couple days so, you know, I'm firing on all cylinders, I think I can do it.

Q.   This is a course that you played well at before, too.
BILL HAAS:   I shot some good scores.   Three solid days so far.   No reason I can't come out tomorrow and do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT