WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2017
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bill, yesterday some struggles.  Today you turned it around, 6-under for the day and you gave yourself a chance for the weekend.  How did you do it?
BILL HAAS: I made a few putts.  Yesterday really just three, four bad swings and that's a lot in our game but it seemed to cost me every time and then the looks I did have yesterday I didn't make and today I just made a few and still left a couple out there.
So, all in all, like you said, now I got to sit around and wait and see if it's enough.  I think it's going to miss because the scoring is so good.
To have a putt on the last, I told myself if you make it it's worth something.  To make it maybe I can use it next week.
Q. You played your college golf at Wake Forest.  Always a thrill to play in front of family and friends here at this location.
BILL HAAS: It makes it actually a little more disappointing because playing well here, having everybody out here, supporting a Deacon family, that's -- makes me want to play well even more.  Disappointed about yesterday but, all in all, I always enjoy coming here.  Look forward to next year.
Q. Bill, how do you come back from yesterday's round?  You're a professional.  This is what you do.  How do you come back like that?
BILL HAAS: You can't give up.  There's a piece of you when you're 3-over on a course where everybody is shooting the numbers, you like to go home sometimes.
At the same time, there might be a swing or shot that you hit that works for next week.  That's kind of what I used today, I got two more big weeks coming up and good round today I thought would be better than another 73.  I would be even more miserable.  Shooting a good round has a good taste in my mouth.  Hopefully I get to play more golf.  I don't think I'm going to.  It would be nice just to try to shoot eye a more low ones.
Q. Did you make plans in case you weren't going to be here?
BILL HAAS: I told her to go ahead and get everything packed up.  We got all the kids with us and get home at a good hour.  We'll probably wait around a little while and see how the cut is going.
I got the feeling it will be 6:00 and tied for 69th.  Anything can happen.  We'll see.  We have to hang around.  I don't know mind hanging around to see.  I don't mind hanging around here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT