U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2014
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BILL HAAS: It was tough today.  I thought actually this morning was tougher.  Usually you go out early, you get a little break, maybe.  It was definitely blowing harder this morning than it is now.  That's good for the leaders, but then the greens are only getting firmer.
Q. (Inaudible.)BILL HAAS: Obviously it was windy this morning.  My back was a little stiff, I didn't feel as good. I had a 20-footer for par on 4.  I was about to get 3-over through 4.  I made that and eagle 5, and all of a sudden I'm back to even.  And that kind of kept me in there.
Q. What's the outlook tomorrow?BILL HAAS: Hopefully they have a little bit more accessible pins.  The back nine, there were a few holes that were kind of accessible.  But I'd love to see birdies, I guess, and that's what we love to see is birdies.  They don't.  And they want Kaymer to come back. It will be tough.  So obviously you've got to hang tough.  If I could somehow shoot something under par tomorrow, if the conditions are the same, I think I would move up.  Maybe not where I want to be, but to have a decent week.
Q. This is your first Pinehurst U.S. Open.  Did they do a nice job here?BILL HAAS: Absolutely.  This is my 6th Open, and it's probably been my favorite one so far.  I think they did it right with the course and they got it perfect.  The green speeds were good.  I think they could have gotten out of control if they want to.  They haven't done that yet.  Maybe they will tomorrow.  They've been very playable. The fans obviously are great.  And the town seems to be somewhat easy to get around.  The cop are slowing traffic down in the roundabouts.  The town seems to embrace it.  This is a golf town.  If you live here, you've got to understand that golf is part of it.
Q. Did you play much here in college?  Do you have much familiarity with Pinehurst?BILL HAAS: I don't.  I came here and watched my dad play here in, I guess, '05.  And I played it one other time.  I wish we could come down here a little more in college, but you know how it is when you're up there studying and you've only got so many hours a week to practice.  As I team, I wish we would have come down together and stayed the weekend and played golf, but we never did that.  It would be my suggestion for players to use these facilities as much as they can.  It's not quite next door.  It's a little more than an hour away.  A little more difficult maybe to go down for the day.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT