U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 18, 2017
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What is your takeaway from today?  
BILL HAAS: Yeah, a lot of good stuff.  The first two days I'd say was about as good of golf as I could have played, unfortunately just didn't get low enough with the rest of these guys.   
And then today was actually pretty shaky, so I'm pretty proud of the way I was able to score because off the tee I was not as sharp today.  Maybe that was some nerves, but I didn't feel as nervous knowing I was five shots back.  It's hard to be nervous when you really have to make up rounds.  I was in a hard spot.  I just didn't want to go the other way.   
For about nine holes, I felt like I was just hanging on.  My birdie at 11 made me relax a little bit.  A very nice finish and I'm very pleased with the week.   
 Q.  What do you know about Brooks' game?  
BILL HAAS: I played with him at the Memorial two weeks ago.  He's just really impressive physically.  Just pounds the ball and he hits it -- he's very straight.  He's got a lot of Dustin Johnson in him, just long and straight.  And he's going to overpower golf courses, and he's got a great demeanor.  He's just like Dustin, I would say.  They're very much a similar player, where nothing seems to bother them.  And it's no surprise.   
You watch him hit, it's a little different than most of us out here.  So very deserving champion.  I don't want to speak for him yet, but looking pretty good coming down the stretch.   
 Q.  Not only the best finish at the Open, but your best finish at a major, period.  At this stage in your career, what does that do for you in terms of going forward, does it give you more confidence in these events?  
BILL HAAS: Maybe so.  I'm going to lose by six, at least, it wasn't like I was right there.  But at the same time, but as you said, to shoot 10-under in the U.S. Open, I know the conditions were a little soft, but today was a tough day.  There had to be some high scores.   
I can take a lot of good away from it.  I'm not getting any younger, so I'm going to have to capitalize on some opportunities here these next few years.  But Stricker was playing great.  There's no reason why I can't compete out here for some more years to come.   
 Q.  Next year the U.S. Open is at Shinnecock, what was that experience like for you the last time you were there?  Your dad was leading the tournament.  
BILL HAAS: Right.  He played.  No, he played the group in front of me, I think, on Sunday.  And, yeah, it was a cool -- my second major, second Open, but first one I made the cut in.  And we played right near each other on Sunday.  I think he beat me by about ten on Sunday, so he put me in my place.   
I have really good memories from that place.  I think this gets me in, this finish gets me guaranteed back in that tournament next year.  So really looking forward to going back there.   
 Q.  There was an article a few years back I think in Golf Digest where they referred to you as the best player never to contend in a major.  Is that a compliment, an insult or how do you view that kind of statement?  
BILL HAAS: Anytime they say best player, they're giving you a compliment.  But it is a little bit of a backhanded compliment.  They're saying you're a good player but you don't do well in big tournaments.  That's the negative.   
I don't disagree with that.  I've been disappointed with my major résumé or finishes, but at the same time it's hard to get in these tournaments.  These guys are really good.  And I've just gotten beat pretty easily in all these majors.   
This could be a springboard, who knows?  I think at the British I'll be looking forward to going there, trying to get my game in shape the next couple of tournaments I'm playing in.  Who knows, maybe I'll contend there, as well.   
 Q.  Springboard because of the finish or because of the way you played today and tough conditions, but not with your best play?  
BILL HAAS: Not necessarily the finish.  I had some good stuff early in the week and we contended, and today when I was under the gun, didn't have my best stuff.  I was still able to shoot a few under par, which is really hard to do when you're not sharp.  These courses are hard.   
At the British, when the wind will be up, if you don't have your best stuff you're not going to do well.  It's motivation to get a little better, to be able to have my best stuff under the gun.  That's what I want, I want to play a Sunday where I feel like I'm aggressive and I stripe it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT