WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2013
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can we just get some comments? 
BILL HAAS:   Pretty solid ball‑striking, maybe not ideal, but good enough, and just pretty consistent.   Hitting a decent number of greens, and it seems like my missed greens were in places where it was a doable up‑and‑down.   Certainly not perfect, and hopefully this weekend if my ball‑striking is a little bit better, I feel really good with the putter.

Q.   It's been about a month since you won at AT&T.   Can you ride the momentum?
BILL HAAS:   It's tough.   Especially in that month, I took two weeks off and had a missed cut.   You can say momentum is on the downturn as opposed to upturn, but it's just how you look at it.   The week starts, everybody is at even, you've just got to go play. 
This week is a tough week.   The golf course is playing as tough as I've seen it, I think, and definitely in the back of my mind I remember winning pretty recently, so I have positive thoughts for sure. 

Q.   You shoot 67‑68 not striking the ball well.   If it does get there‑‑
BILL HAAS:   I think I can if I strike it a little bit better, I feel like I can shoot a 66 or a 65.   But like I said, I'm not striking it great, but when I've missed shots I've been able to save par. 
No. 9, I missed the fairway right, missed the green left, chipped it up there five feet and I made it.   So a good 5‑footer made it look like I hit it well, but I didn't. 
If the putter is feeling good and I have good thoughts with that, if that stays the same this weekend, hopefully I'll be there on Sunday.

Q.   What's making it play tougher than anything you've seen?
BILL HAAS:   I don't know, because the rough is not maybe as thick as I've seen it.   Like No.9, I couldn't even reach the green, I don't think, from a good drive.   It landed 15 yards into the fairway, and it went in the rough, and I couldn't reach the green. 
The rough is thick, greens are pretty quick.   I don't know, it's just long, too, you're not getting much roll.   So I hit 4‑ and 5‑irons into a lot of these greens.   Most of the courses we play half the time you're hitting 7‑ and 8‑irons to give you birdie chances.

Q.   Not running like it did two weeks ago?
BILL HAAS:   No, not quite the same as two weeks ago.   But that was just different.   I mean, totally different.

Q.   It's not going to get any easier then if it does rain now and then tomorrow?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, it's not going to get any shorter, like you're saying.   If it's supposed to continue raining all night.   But the greens will be soft. 
I saw a quote from maybe Tiger if we have 4‑iron in, so be it, we can still be aggressive.   It may be easy for him to say, the best iron player ever.   But with the soft greens, you're able to hold 4‑irons on the green as opposed to them bouncing and going off.   You're not seeing as many missed greens, I guess. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT