WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2017
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Give us your thoughts on the consolation match, Bill.
BILL HAAS: Obviously the fact that we played that match, you want to come out on top.  I think that would have stung even more to lose both matches on Sunday.  I thought I played -- I played my worse that match of any match.  And I think maybe he was a little tired as well as I was.  But I was fortunate, a few good breaks on the back nine, and he missed a few putts for me.  It feels good to come out on top.  I didn't made seven birdies and win that way, but I'll take it any way I can get it.
Q. The ace at 7, and conceding to you at 12?
BILL HAAS: Yes, he made two eagles on me.  And 11, I almost flew it into the water fall and it kicked off and all the way down to the hole.  I got a good break, and made up for some of those good shots that he made.  Luckily that eagle only counts for one hole.  I only lose one hole when he makes those eagles.  I was fortunate to win that match.
Q. A good week looking towards Presidents Cup with your good match play here.
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I would love to play in it.  My goal is Tour Championship, win -- or win Tour Championship and then if you make the team -- if you do the first one and the second one, you're probably going to make one of those teams.  I try not to focus on the points list.  We've got enough stress.  The FedExCup playoffs, there's enough in my head to play for than to be thinking of that.  It's hard not to think about it, but at the same time I don't think it helps me to play any better to know if I'm close.  I still have four majors and PLAYERS Championship, a lot of good opportunities to play well.  That's my goal is to play decent if a few of those.  And if I do that, the rest will take care of itself.
Q. You obviously had your old man in and put things on the right pathway.  This week is something that might have you trending in the right direction?
BILL HAAS: Yeah, I think so.  I'm working on something that's a little different in my golf swing.  When I look at it on film, it looks exactly the same.  But to me it feels a little different.  When you have a feel and something to work on then that gets you excited, especially when you have a good result with it.  I'm not playing Houston.  Playing a little bit at home.  Might go down to Augusta and play.  Try to get as many swings in as I can, to try to perfect it.  If I can get to where I'm really striking nice, I think I can compete.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT