THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 1, 2013
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How tough was it out there today?  
    BILL HAAS:   Yeah, pretty tough day.   But the greens were soft.   It was tough, just as tough as the first two days, but I just didn't make the par saves I needed to make.   A few birdie putts I didn't make.   Overall I didn't feel like I played all that bad.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    BILL HAAS:   Yeah, definitely.   He hit some good putts and some poor putts, as well.   Wasn't comfortable with a lot of putts.   Had a lot of left‑to‑righters and seemed to miss a lot low.   It was getting frustrating.   But if I play the par‑3s a little better tomorrow, and maybe get the par‑5s, and hopefully shoot a low round.   If the weather is somewhat predictable tomorrow, you never can tell.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    BILL HAAS:   Yeah.   I was three back.   Certainly going to have to shoot at least four tomorrow.   I'm going to need to shoot something better than him to catch him.   It's a good position to be in.   I would like to be in a better position, but certainly within striking distance.  
   
 Q.   Jack has worked very hard to make the finishing holes (inaudible.)  
    BILL HAAS:   16 is getting better and better each year, with the green getting more consistent with the rest of the course.   
    17, you can see a birdie.   
    18, you can see a birdie, but you can make a bogey just the same.   Both of them generous landing off the tees.   Just try to get them off the fairway and be aggressive.  
   
 Q.   Three rounds in weather like this, how draining is it?  
    BILL HAAS:   It's tough.   It's the wind.   This is a tough golf course without wind.   And the greens are at least 13s on the Stimpmeter.   With that much wind, it makes it difficult to make putts.   
    Tough for me today, but there are scores out there.   You can get it.   Tomorrow I've got to focus a little harder on the putts and make a few.  
   
 Q.   Have you had conversations with your dad after the first rounds?  
    BILL HAAS:   Yeah, I would say almost every one, through texting or a phone call, I go over what I did and get his feedback.   And usually it's just keep plugging, stay patient.   He'll say what I've just said, you're in a good position, just go out there and grind.   
    I don't have to be perfect tomorrow, but I've got to be pretty good.   Looking forward to hopefully having a decent Sunday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT