RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2013
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Anytime you get around this place with 3‑under you do pretty well. 
BILL HAAS:   I played nice today.   I don't think I missed a green.   And around here, these greens are not that big.   Certainly would have liked to make a few more, but anytime you're in the 60s around this place‑‑ the wind was somewhat tricky at times.

Q.   The last couple of holes you were working from the center of the green back toward the hole, is that part of the game plan this week?
BILL HAAS:   I think so.   I like to start the ball away from trouble, generally.   And 17 you just can't go right there.   They've got small bunkers. 
And then 18, put it in off the fringe.   If it does get in trouble, maybe it's crossing on the right side of the green.

Q.   The only PGA event in South Carolina, your parents met here, what does this tournament mean to you?
BILL HAAS:   I made a joke of it that it's kind of the reason I even exist.   It's very special to our family.   It's one we didn't miss as a kid growing up.   I didn't watch much golf, and did what everybody does on vacation.   But this area is a great area and I've always enjoyed coming here.

Q.   Players talked about the decompression after the Masters, do you feel like that?   You come to this resort town and it must be a totally different feeling. 
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, it is.   When you get on the first tee, your competitive juices start flowing and I don't think anybody here cares less this week than they did last week.   Obviously you'd love to win the Masters over a regular event, but anytime you can play well, you'll take it and this is no exception. 
This tournament has been around a bunch of years and has a lot of great history, and certainly on my list of the tournaments I'd love to win.

Q.   Must feel pretty good about yourself after this first round?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, 3‑under is better than 2‑under and so forth.   So I'll take it.   I think I played nice today.   It could have even been better.   So I've got good vibes going there.   And hopefully tomorrow and the rest of the weekend I'll have similar golf.

Q.   Did the course play well for you today?
BILL HAAS:   Yeah, I think so.   There was a little breeze, but it certainly wasn't howling out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT