SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 29, 2013
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Gauge the difference of the greens from yesterday to today.
BILL HAAS:   They might have been a hair more difficult today, I think, but you know, as the weekend goes along, there's definitely some greens out there that have even tougher pins.   Par will become a better score, I think, as the week goes on.

Q.   How do you manage the accelerator out there trying -- were you in a good position -- obviously don't want to do anything to make any big numbers.   Where do you go when you put in it neutral out there on the golf course?
BILL HAAS:   When I birdied 4 to go 7-under, I was really wanting to get one more coming in there and I 3-putted 5 after two nice shots.   The hardest hole in the course.   Hit a perfect drive and nice 7-iron that came back on the slope and I 3-putted.   That was disappointing because I really would have liked to have gotten it to 8.   Overall, 6-under par in two days on this course is pretty good.

Q.   That's back-to-back putting yourself into position.   How do you feel about your game going into this weekend trying to run it down?
BILL HAAS:   Feels pretty good.   Had a tough weekend last weekend, so couple good rounds this weekend will make me feel even that much better.

Q.   You just got yourself right in the mix now.   What does this feel like coming out of Friday's round?
BILL HAAS:   Feels good, two solid rounds, nothing crazy low, but some good numbers to keep me in the mix.   Hopefully these afternoon guys get some wind like we did yesterday.

Q.   How do you approach your position now heading into the weekend?
BILL HAAS:   Just try to keep hitting good tee shots.   I think that's the key to this golf course is getting in the fairway, and, you know, if I do that, then maybe I can be aggressive.

Q.   You and I were talking earlier in the week about how you haven't fared as well as you would have liked at this course in the past.   Do you feel like you conquered some demons?
BILL HAAS:   I was talking with my brother and said it's nice to play the weekend here and actually be in the mix.   Hopefully I can keep that going.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT