SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 28, 2013
Bill Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great back-9 put you in position after day 1?  
BILL HAAS:   Thank you.   Excerpt didn't want to finish with a bogey.   Didn't hit a great tee shot, but it's kind of hanging there and barely went in the bunker and just hit a poor second shot, really, I didn't give myself much of a chance to even save par.  
  
Overall, did plenty of good things today, just, you know, you got to keep the ball in front of you here on this course.   Can't hit too many foul balls or make a big number quick.   Hopefully keep getting it off the tee pretty food.  
   
 Q.   Started with the birdie on 8.   Then the putt on 9 to kick start it.  
BILL HAAS:   Absolutely.   You want to make birdie at 8, the par 5.   Any par at 9 is good.   To make a 2 there was huge.   Able to make another birdie at 10.   Suddenly the round felt good.   Par save at 13, it was nice.   Par 5, made a bogey there hit a nice shot.   Went over the greens.   Some of these greens if you miss them barely they go 20 yards over the green.   Happy to get that one up and down and keep the yard going.  
   
 Q.   Nicest flag stick you've hit in awhile.  
BILL HAAS:   Another lucky break.   The thing that I missed it, it probably would have gone 10 feet.   Easily could have hit the pin and come back at me off the green or gone further away.   It was very nice to make that 6-footer.  
   
 Q.   We were expecting wind this afternoon, looked like it was switching, it was moving either way, lay down for a hole and just get cranked up.   Looked like you really had to battle out there.  
BILL HAAS:   One of those rounds where I was fortunate, I think I guessed correctly on a lot of the wind shots and/or other -- sometimes you hit a good one and the wind would really hit it.   Certainly very tricky.   I think the rest of the week according to the forecast will be a lot of the same.  
   
 Q.   One of the best rounds of the afternoon.   Good luck tomorrow.  
BILL HAAS:   I appreciate it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT