THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 13, 1994
Emilio Sanchez
Javier Sanchez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What does it feel to have a win over your older brother?

 JAVIER SANCHEZ:  Well, my feeling now is not pretty good because
I never beat him and I am not feeling well when he lost and today
I beat him for the first time.  It is a different feeling than
if I beat another player.

 Q.  Is it different?

 JAVIER SANCHEZ:  Yeah.

 Q.  How is that?

 JAVIER SANCHEZ:  Because when he play, I always watch his matches
and I am very happy when he win and I get not so happy when he
lose.  I am not feeling well when he loses.  Today I beat him.
 It is very strange for me.  Inside my feelings is not the same
than if I beat another player.

 Q.  Is it hard to beat?

 JAVIER SANCHEZ:  Well, we play too many times and he always beat
me.  I don't know, maybe we play more than 100 times in all my
career, but in matches in ATP we play, I don't know, how many,
but in Spain we play a lot of matches and he always beat me.

 Q.  This is the first win?

 JAVIER SANCHEZ:  Yeah.

 Q.  You think it was psychological or do you think it was
mental or--

 JAVIER SANCHEZ:  No, I think for him and me play each other is
difficult because we are brothers and we travel always together.
 I think play each other is different than playing other players.


 Q.  Feeling different about this loss as far as different
types of feelings?

 EMELIO SANCHEZ:  Well, I suppose this is the way it goes.  Also
was not normal that two high level players like us, I was such
-- I had in the record it is normal that sometimes he wins, but
looking at the match today, I think I had my chances and in the
third set, I had-- before he broke me I had three games with at
least two breakpoints and I didn't take them, so at the end he
wins, so it was very close match.  I think he probably made one
of his dreams.

 Q.  Of beating you?

 EMELIO SANCHEZ:  I suppose.

 Q.  Do you feel like you lost a little bit of a psychological
advantage that you might have had before?

 EMELIO SANCHEZ:  No, because the matches were always close and
looking back I suppose that those chances that I had today I didn't
take them.  The other times I took them and that is why I won.


 Q.  It is almost like a joke, would you recommend to do seeds
like family-- like the next tournament one is at the top of the
seed, so that the other brother should be down the list so you
don't eliminate each other in the first game?

 EMELIO SANCHEZ:  Hopefully they do something like that.  But
I think it would be unfair for the other guys.

 Q.  Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT