PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Jim McGovern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jim, I know this week wasn't what you were looking for, it was your return to Valhalla.   It's a totally different golf course than what you met before.   Could you just give me your feelings about what the week meant to you?  
JIM MCGOVERN:   It was awesome.   I came here pretty much with my number one goal to be to have a good time and enjoy myself in probably the last major I'll ever play in, so I did it.   
Yesterday was a struggle.   I didn't hit it very good.   I couldn't get myself to get into a rhythm.   I was really jumpy and I really didn't hit it very good.   I didn't do anything very good yesterday.   
Today I said let's go out and have fun, enjoy it.   Boy, you have got eight par‑5s on this golf course.   For me, it's too long.   It was awesome.   Just felt like a lot longer golf course.   
   
 Q.   100 yards more?  
JIM MCGOVERN:   I bet you it played for me‑‑ today I hit 3‑wood into, I think, three par‑4s.   So that just is‑‑ I can't score too well when I'm hitting 3‑wood into those.   I mean, the golf course is phenomenal.   Great shape, people are great, weather held out.   
   
 Q.   Help me out with the total majors that you've computed for you career.   Can we figure that one out?  
JIM MCGOVERN:   I'm going to say it's about 19, 20.   I don't know how many U.S. Opens.   Ten or 12 U.S. Opens and two Augusta, two British and I think this is my fifth PGA.  
   
 Q.   As you know, it it's a proud thing for the PGA of America to have its members to get this reward and come to the Championship.   
JIM MCGOVERN:   No question about it.   For me, it's an opportunity I never thought I would get again.   Ten years ago I didn't know if I would ever have this.   To come back here and play and enjoy it, it's just a great opportunity and I'm glad I took advantage of it.   The golf course is a little too much for me.   Fantastic experience as usual.  
   
 Q.   We will see you in some of our senior PGA professional events?  
JIM MCGOVERN:   I'm hoping, yeah.   I'm hoping they will take me.   I'm going to keep playing.   I'm not going to beat myself up with the young kids anymore.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT