NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 1999
John Kagwe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JOHN KAGWE: Probably things don't always start the way someone is thinking. I was
planning to win the race like the other guys and it is good to lose because everyday is
not the same day. Some days someone have depression, some days you have happiness. So it
is okay. The race was good and I salute the winners. 
 
Q. I am delighted to see that you have such a wonderful smile in fifth as you were in
first. It is wonderful. Any questions? Could you talk about Central Park and when Joseph
pulled away and you dropped off the pace.
 
 JOHN KAGWE: A little bit I didn't have -- I didn't have my race there where I thought
-- I was thinking maybe I would catch up and then my energy kept on going away. If I try I
lose a bit, so -- and the other guys is -- I think I lost the energy and I couldn't do it.
I had the will, but my body could not comply. 
 
Q. You just said a moment ago that it is good to lose. Did you mean that it is good to
lose in the sense that this is a learning experience for you because certainly you are
very happy person coming in here after having lost?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: Come again? I didn't get you. 
 
Q. You just said a moment ago it is good to lose. Do you mean that this is good in the
sense that it is a learning experience for you today (Questions in Spanish)?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: Yes, I have lost before but whenever you lose you come up very strong.
Because you go and work hard. Yes, the marathon was very good. 
 
Q. We watched the race on television and the picture of the men's race when there were
8 men went away for 5 and when it came back it was you and Castro and Chebet. When did you
three break away from the other five? Were you in the park or was it still on the avenue?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: Well, it is in Central Park when we were just. 
 
Q. The first little hill?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: Yeah first little hill that is where we get the break. 
 
Q. There were 8 going into the park?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: Yes. 
 
Q. Who led that break?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: Castro make the -- first who is the name-- Leone make the break then we
catch up then he didn't come back again then we go and then he grabbed me. 
 
Q. When did you get a sense that Joseph was in very good form and that it might be a
different result for him today?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: When we make that break and I was looking and Castro kept on increasing,
increasing, increasing and Chebet was holding and holding and then I knew that Chebet when
Chebet who make a break then Castro would lose, so I thought Chebet was not breaking when
Castro was breaking and he was trying to break and Chebet was not using a lot of energy.
So I thought Chebet is going to win. 
 
Q. Did you feel comfortable until the break or were you thinking this --
 
 JOHN KAGWE: In the beginning of the race I was not comfortable. Someone tripped me five
times so I felt my leg was -- whenever I was -- my leg lost energy, couldn't step very
well for 20 meters. 
 
Q. Where did that happen at the start, somebody tripped you?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: Not in the start. It is in the race. I was tripped five times, the guy was
someone kept on hitting my right leg, the same leg until I was -- yeah, first I thought I
showed him this (indicating shows him muscle) then I said, oh, no, this is a race and if I
hit him then -- I will be the one that will be sued. So I kept quiet but I forgive him. 
 
Q. Do you know who it was?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: He is a Moroccan. I forgive him. It is not a big deal. We talked and we
agreed and he didn't like to do it if is a game, I forgive him. 
 
Q. The first Kenyan who became famous in this very was Kagwe. He used to at the end of
the race he would wear a cap and throw it away. When did you throw away your knitted cap?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: When I felt like it is giving me -- it is making me lose energy, so I even
wanted to throw my singlettes. 
 
Q. I just wanted to ask you you seem to be almost happier today than you have been the
other two times you have won the race. Can you explain that emotion?
 
 JOHN KAGWE: I was happier when I was win the race laughter. Today I want to maintain --
I don't want to feel depressed because I lost the race, new guys when I come here -- you
will start writing and you will say John was crying 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT