U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2019
Matt Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MATT FITZPATRICK: I feel like I should have been better all week.  I just -- I probably gained strokes putting for the week.  But I felt like my putts holed for par, definitely a higher percentage than the putts holed for birdie.  Gave myself a lot of chances for birdie.  Today even coming in, 17 was a chance, and then 18 it's just a wedge, just got to hit it harder, just got it wrong.  And, again, it would have been close.   
But, yeah, game's been trending the right direction.  I think three weeks prior to this I have not played -- I have not scored too well just through bad putting.  And I don't think I was probably aggressive enough with how well I'm hitting my irons.  But, yeah, over all a good week.  Hopefully can move up and a few people drop a few shots coming in.   
Q How about the Pebble experience?  Pretty impressive?   
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it's been amazing.  Yeah, it really has.  The golf course, the views and everything.  It's fantastic.  I'm just one of those psychos, I wish it'd been set up a little harder.   
I'm 3-under.  I think I got 3-under after 11 for the day.  I'm looking at all the scores, and, you know, you got like 3-under through 5, 4-under, 5-under, you know, I just think -- yeah, unfortunately I just think I'd rather see it the other way.  A real good 3-under moves you up.  Jim Furyk shot even par at U.S. Open and lost ground.  So, yeah, I just wish it was maybe a lot tougher today.   
Q Can you talk about just the walk up 18, Pebble Beach, U.S. Open, and what that means to you and what it felt like?   
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it's great.  It's a great place, the history that's gone on here.  Surprised to original learn that the first U.S. Open here was 1976 I think maybe.  I thought it'd been here for a lot longer.   
But it's a great place to play golf.  The golf course is perfect for a U.S. Open.  It's very fair.  And at the same time I guess there is a score to be had.   
Q Last year's result in the U.S. Open as well, are you feeling like sort of taking positives from these performances?   
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, yeah, definitely.  I mean, you know, I'm 4-under.  I think Gary is -13 right now.  I'm 9 behind the leader.  That's like a -- that's a lot of shots.  And I just -- I do feel like I'm quite far off right now of like getting up there.  I don't know what it is.  I feel like I've -- I've probably not drove it as well this week, but either way it's not really cost my too many shots because still going in with long irons, and it's not easy to not hit it close.   
But, yeah, I just think right now I just need to get -- still quite a bit I need to get better at before I can really sort of compete, yeah, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT