U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Matt Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MATT FITZPATRICK: I completely agree with Rory what he said the other day.  But at the same time there are some tee shots if the wind picks up, for me, it might be a little bit more difficult.  Take the 1st, for example, I can't carry 280 down the left, whereas Rory does that in his sleep.  It's a little different in that aspect on some holes.   
But it's not quite the normal USGA set-up just yet.  I think give it three days and this kind of weather, and it will be exactly where they want it.   
 Q.  Do you think it has a feel, maybe British linksy but without the water?  Do you feel it has that feel to it?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: On not really, I wouldn't say it's linksy.  You pitch it by the hole and stop it.  Maybe if it gets firmer, you can.  At the same time it's difficult because you can't putt from 30 yards off the green.  You're still chipping it, really.  I see what people are coming from.  If you look up and around, it looks exactly like that.  But I don't think it plays like that.   
 Q.  2-under at a U.S. Open is a nice opening round.  Was keeping it out of the fescue the other thing you have to do here, but what did you do to get to where you are?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: I think exactly that.  I hit once into the deep fescue.  Cost me a bogey, and then I hit once in the rough, which cost me a double, because I just got a flier.  Yeah, it was -- it's not easy out there.  You've still got to hit good shots, but I think good shots are rewarded, and I think that's what's great.   
It's still soft enough that you can hit it straight at the flag.  Pitch it two or three yards short and you're in good shape.   
 Q.  It's not a typical U.S. Open because a lot of people have put subpar numbers out there, so it's pretty interesting from that perspective.  You're one of them.  Do you think this course gave more than maybe some people expected?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: I think so.  I think Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday the practice rounds it was pretty soft.  So people could say it was scorable, and these guys are the best in the world, so to see them shoot the scores that they have done is no surprise.  Especially with it being soft early morning, and even this afternoon fairly soft too.  It was scorable.   
 Q.  Strategy for the second round?  You obviously want to move up the leaderboard, how do you do it?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: Same as today.  Play smart, play safe, play aggressive.  It's a mix of everything, you know?  You've got to take your chances when you can.  If there is a flag that you've got room around it to work it in or go at it, you've got to do it.  Otherwise, yeah, just stick to the plan.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT