AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS VS RED SOX
October 17, 2018
Craig Kimbrel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Craig Kimbrel.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the job the rest of the bullpen has been doing the last few weeks, the last few games, especially Matt Barnes?  
CRAIG KIMBREL: From top to bottom, everybody has gone out and done their job, got out of big spots when we needed it.  I know there's a lot of talk about our bullpen coming into the playoffs, and seems like everybody stepped up to the plate and done their job.  They give me the ball, I know I've made it a little bit more interesting and exciting the three times I've got to pitch.  But at the end of the day we've been able to do our job and get the wins when we needed them.   
 Q.  Obviously with the days off in the postseason it's not like the regular season.  Has that impacted, you think, some of the issues you've had in the postseason games?  
CRAIG KIMBREL: I'm not big on putting a reason to performance all the time.  I mean, sometimes games just work out the way they do.  And I'm not looking for excuses as to why I'm doing one thing or another.   
So at the end of the day I get out there, do my job and try to figure out what I can do to be better the next time.   
 Q.  Are there things you can do to adjust your rhythm and your routine to counteract the fact that the days off are different?  
CRAIG KIMBREL: I don't think it has to do as much the days off as it does staying within my mechanics and trying not to do too much.  At times games get exciting and you try to do too much at times.  And there's been some pitches that I've thrown that has gotten me into trouble.  Like I said, I was glad I was able to work out of them.   
 Q.  Alex just told us Chris isn't going to start tomorrow.  What have you all seen in your interactions with him since he's been back?  Clearly his health is more important, but just talk about what you've seen in Chris and how he feels since we haven't had an opportunity to see him.  
CRAIG KIMBREL: He looks like Chris.  He looks fine.  And as far as when he's going to start and all those things, that's going to come.  But first off we were just worried about his health and making sure he was okay.  And once we found out he was fine, then it's get ready to pitch.   
 Q.  Has he lost weight?  
CRAIG KIMBREL: I don't think you could tell -- I don't know if you could tell.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT