WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A flash interview with:
SHANE LOWRY
Q. Well, an opening round of 65.  Might look easy on the card, but I certainly know it wasn't in those final nine holes.  On the front 9...
SHANE LOWRY: Obviously I started the round beautifully and made a few birdies, holed a couple of long putts.  And, you know, then a bit of a slipup there in the middle of the play, back 9, front 9, and I was just kind of -- I got to 7-under and just became a little bit tense there.  That's something that, you know, I need to work on, something I want to get off tomorrow or the weekend, just kick on.
And, you know, it's a bad mistake if you don't learn from it.  I bent back with that 2 on the 7th hole, which was nice and kicked on from there.
Q. Let's talk about that putt on No.  7, which was 26 feet.  Were you trying to just get close, or did you have a good line on it when you're looking at it?
SHANE LOWRY: When you have two bogeys in a row, I was just hitting it into the middle of the green and trying to roll it down and drop it in.  Like these greens are the purest greens as I have ever seen.  You know when you've hit it online it has a chance.
Q. You were working the ball a lot from right to left today.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I think that's where my bogeys came from, No. 6, 125 and hit a -- couldn't believe it.  Came back at 20 yards.  [Indiscernible.]
Q. I'm sure you're going to enjoy lunch coming into the clubhouse tied at 1.  Nice round.
SHANE LOWRY: Thank you.
Q. Talk about that birdie on 16.  That had to be exciting there.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it was.  You know, to be honest, I actually -- Robert hit a decent tee shot and pitch and ran off the green and got a loud boo.  It's very intimidating up there.
It's kind of -- you know, first time I've done it, obviously.  I was just praying I was going to hit the green.  I managed -- my ball managed to just stay on the green and I rolled it in from 30 feet.
It was pretty exciting, and it was nice to do that.  I'm actually really looking forward to playing there tomorrow afternoon about 4:30 or 5:00 or something.  In the group behind Phil, as well, I'm pretty sure it's going to be fairly loud tomorrow.
Q. Seems like a really big year for you.
SHANE LOWRY: I think this is obviously my first season over here full time and playing a full schedule.  So, you know, I'd like to make two or three FedEx Cup events.
Obviously I feel like I can do a lot better.  I feel Tour Championship is obviously a decent goal.  You know, we've got the Ryder Cup, obviously, as well.  I think that's one of my main goals.
But I've got a lot of smaller goals I'd just like to achieve, be ready for every week that I play, and every tournament I play is a big tournament.
So just kind of, to put in some decent work when I'm at home and try and get ready for events as good as I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT