EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 13, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is it to be in a team environment this week?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's nice.  Obviously it's different, my first team event as a pro.  I've been here kind of a day and a half now and it's a good laugh in the team room so far.  We played 18 holes this morning.  It's nice to be here.  It's great to be here.  I'm looking forward to the rest of the week.   
 Q.  How different is it being part of the team to just setting up for yourself and playing for yourself?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's a little bit different.  I suppose you can -- at the end of the day, you still want to play good golf yourself.  You're going out there to play as best you can.  The environment is a little bit different and it's nice.  Obviously as professional golfers, we play a lot of individual -- it can become a very selfish game.  So it be in a team events and be rooting for the lads, it's going to be nice this week.   
 Q.  These are guys you know, so easy to slip into a team environment, is it?  
SHANE LOWRY: It is.  We play around the world together and we spend time in players' lounges together and going for dinner together.  The group of lads that's here this week, great group of lads and we're having a good laugh so far.  It's a great week and as I said, it's great to be here.   
 Q.  There is the risk that this could sound like a nice jolly to start the year; that it's just a nice night out and good fun.  But it's important, as well.  It's a big tournament, isn't it?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, Darren is getting that across a lot.  We need to take this very seriously as a team.  At the end of the day, we don't want to be going home Sunday evening with our tail between our legs and we want to go out there and play as best we can.   
Obviously we need to enjoy ourselves, as well, on our downtime and when we are chilling out in the team room, have a laugh or whatever.  But when we get on the golf course, be very serious about it and we are definitely looking for a win on Sunday.   
 Q.  Presumably the competitive element comes as a matter of course when you get into things a bit more.  
SHANE LOWRY: It does.  We are all very competitive people.  Professional golfers are very competitive people and no matter what we do, if you're playing a game at home with your mates or if you're out here playing EurAsia Cup, it's all the same for me.  I'm still trying to play as best I can.   
Yeah, I think, like I said, we are all very competitive and we'll be really looking to play well this week and hopefully get off to a nice start on Friday and see what happens come Sunday.   
 Q.  How are you feeling at your own game at the moment?  I know you've had a nice little break --  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's nice.  I always like taking a break like that at Christmas and getting the hunger back for the game.  Really towards the end of Christmas, I was really looking forward to going to Dubai for a few days and practise before here.  I'm enjoying my golf.  Tough end of last year but really looking forward to the year ahead and really looking forward to this week.   
 Q.  Do you set different goals, different targets at the start of a new season?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I'm not one -- I don't set a lot of goals.  I just kind of try and prepare as best I can for everything.  So yeah, obviously last year was great.  I won a big tournament and I think I'd like to win again at some stage this year.  Obviously I'm going to be in all the majors, all the big tournaments.  Hopefully I can win a big one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT