WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 9, 2015
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How does it feel when your dream comes true?  You're now a PGA Tour winner.  You're in the FedExCup, the Masters.  So much has happened to you in the last four days.SHANE LOWRY: I mean, I can't believe it.  I've been playing good most of the year, and things just haven't been going my way.  I've missed a couple of cuts by a shot.  And I was getting very down on myself. I played as good a golf as I've ever played the last four days.  Managed to hole a few putts and get a bit of luck, which is nice.Q. I don't know about the luck so much because I watched you play and thought you made every right decision when faced with a tough decision.  Every critical shot today you pulled it off, and to me, that's a sign of a champion.SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's great.  I was quite nervous with a few holes to go.  I knew I was 2 ahead.  I knew, if I could fire in, I would probably win. Then I saw Bubba made birdie on 17.  I was just trying to make pars.Q. It's easier said than done.SHANE LOWRY: Easier said than done.  I had a perfect 7-iron on 17, and the thing just took off a long way left. But what an open down there, that was probably the best in the league, especially under the circumstances.  I'm just thrilled.  I'm delighted for everyone that's helped me along the way.  It's great.  My parents are going to be over the moon.  My fiancee Wendy and stuff.  So it's just -- I mean, it's great for me and great for my family and friends.Q. Congratulations.SHANE LOWRY: I was quite nervous.  Made a lot of good decisions, hit the ball well.  Got a bit luck as well, which is nice.  It's great to be able to pull something off.  I've been down on myself a little bit this year.  Things hadn't been going my way.Q. You get into a tie for the lead, and then this incredible second shot.  Describe this one.SHANE LOWRY: I got a drop away from the tee box, as you can see, and it just made a jump over the tray.  Was hoping to make par, that's all.  Oh, yeah.  It bounced there.Q. There are always key moments.  There are always moments you say this is a turning point.  Do you think that's 14 from your point of view?SHANE LOWRY: Yes, it was massive.  I hit it in the bunker left, which is pretty dead.  Yeah, I mean, I couldn't even -- at 62 yards.  Just hoping it would go over, and that's what it did.  Yeah, that was massive.  That was key for us.Q. How much pressure are you feeling on those last few holes?SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I was.  I knew if I made two pars, I would probably win.  I knew Jim and Justin were behind me and if they made a couple of birdies it would be quite close. Yeah, it's just I got a perfect 7-iron on 17, and I've been hitting the ball so well all day, and it just took off on me.  Made a great up-and-down.Q. The putt on 18 from your point of view?SHANE LOWRY: Yes, my ball was in a bit of a hole.  I just had 52.  I was trying to get it to the front right of the green, but I pulled it a little bit.  Obviously it went through the tree, and the rest is history.Q. Great reaction with the high five.  Great job all week.SHANE LOWRY: I couldn't believe I was seeing the ball coming down from there, coming down on the green.Q. At this moment, the adrenaline?SHANE LOWRY: I said to Dermot, if I two-putt, will I probably win?  And he says, yeah.  So I was just trying to lag it down there and I managed it drop it in.Q. No more top 50 bubble for you.  You're going into a major championship on a links style course, which you love.  Just how exciting is it?SHANE LOWRY: It's exciting.  I know everyone back home, the place I grew up and there's a party going.  Everyone's going to be at home, and my fiancee Wendy and my parents and granny and everyone as well.  It's just great for me, great for my family to have their support.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT