WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 8, 2015
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Shane, 67 in the third round with two birdies.SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I'm pretty happy.  I held the last.  It would have been nice if that went in.  I'm right where I want to be going into tomorrow.  I feel like I'm playing well.Q. The shot at 12 must have been a good read?SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I did.  It was a perfect 8-iron for me.  I think I pushed it a little bit.Q. (Inaudible).SHANE LOWRY: I knew it was going.  Tap-in birdie is nice.Q. The putt at 16, it must have been --SHANE LOWRY: It really was.  I hit a lob wedge there and I left myself a pretty easy putt for birdie.Q. You've won over in Europe.  Is it different in a big event like this?  Does it feel different?SHANE LOWRY: Obviously, tomorrow is going to be a big day for me.  Being in contention here, it's obviously a lot different going in.  Get off on the first tee and hit the fairway.Q. (Inaudible).SHANE LOWRY: Yeah.  I played nicely today.  Couple of bad ones on the back nine, but other than that it was quite good.  It would have been nice if that would have went in on the last putt. I'm right where I want to be going into tomorrow, I'm second to the last group out probably behind the leaders.Q. Pretty well dialed in with the irons.  You gave yourself a few good looks there coming on the back side.SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I did.  I thought I was quite unlucky on 15.  I hit a 5-iron there that was probably a yard left of being perfect. I had a great shot onto 16, a good shot onto 17 and hit a good shot into 18 as well.  So I had the ball under control.  I'm feeling good about my game.  If I can hole a few putts tomorrow, you never know.Q. Good luck.SHANE LOWRY: Thank you.Q. 67 today.  How are you feeling today?SHANE LOWRY: I'm pretty happy.  A couple of slip ups on the back nine, but all in all I played quite nice.  Gave myself a couple of chances coming in.  It would have been nice to hole that one on the last. I'm right where I want to be going into tomorrow.  I'm looking forward to it.  Big event, a chance of going out there and doing something special.  Looking forward to it.Q. What do you draw on tomorrow as you look to try to get in the winner's circle here in the U.S.?SHANE LOWRY: My game has been good for a couple of years now.  I feel like I'm driving the ball quite well, long and straight enough.  I'm thinking, if I can hole a few putts, I can do something special.  I just need to go out and do my own thing.  Chill out in the morning and get out there and hopefully do something good.Q. Rory McIlroy played a practice round at Whistling Straits today.  Your thoughts on the No. 1 player in the world and the defending champ playing in the PGA next week?SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's great.  It's obviously great to have the best player in the world playing.  I think Rory's done a great job to get back to where he is.  It's great.  I think everyone was writing him off and saying he was going to be out for the year.  It will be interesting to see how he is next week.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT