PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2020
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon.  Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship.  We are pleased to be joined by Shane Lowry, who closed with a 74 today, finishes the first major of the year at 3-over par.
 Shane, it's been 13 months since the last major, which you won, but what do you take from TPC Harding Park?  What do you take with you and build on as you look forward to the Playoffs and U.S. Open and beyond?
 SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I mean, what do you take from this week?  Who knows?  I played okay this week.  I played okay in parts.  Made a lot of birdies.  I struggled a little off the tee, which is going to put you in trouble around here.
 But I just -- I still had a chance of it.  I was grinding my nuts off the last few holes, and I got absolutely screwed with a lie in the bunker on 16 and 18 and lipped out for birdie on 17, and it was one of those days where if I could have birdied two of the last three, which are doable on this course, it would have been a half-decent day, but I played them badly and got a bit unfortunate.
 Yeah, like obviously, look, it's been 13 months since the Open.  You don't really think about stuff like that when you're out there playing grinding away in tournaments like this like I've got a lot to play for over the next while.  I'm just disappointed with my day today because I felt like if I could go out and shoot 5- or 6-under I could have a really good week.
 You know, I spoke to Bo going down 15.  We really felt that I wasn't far away this week, especially when you look at the leaders, only 9-under at the minute.  I do feel -- a few putts here and there, and I had four three-putts over the weekend, and just stuff like that.  If I can just clean that up over the next while I can hopefully make it to the Playoffs and hopefully have a run there, then obviously go to Winged Foot, which will be a test that I'm looking forward to and a test that I will like, I think.
 Q. Do you think the driving is something that's going to be a quick fix ahead of the Wyndham, trying to make those Playoffs?
 SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I do.  To be honest I didn't like the way it set up off the tee for me this week.  I'm much more comfortable at the minute hitting a little fade.  There's a lot of tee shots out there that requires a draw, and there's a lot of kind of tricky tee shots that I just didn't really like.
 So yeah, look, it's nothing major at all.  I like that course at Wyndham, so I'm looking -- well, I'm not really looking forward to going and play next week, but I'll take a couple days off and yeah, get ready on Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday and try and give it the best I can.
 Q. That stretch from 8 to 14 obviously on Friday was tough for you there --
 SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, every day -- I got off to a great start every day, and that stretch all week really didn't do me any favors.  But look, it's just a tough stretch of holes.
 I think whoever plays them the best today will probably win the tournament.
 JOHN DEVER:   Thank you, Shane.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT