ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2015
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SHANE LOWRY: I played nicely the last couple of days.  I gave myself a lot of chances.  I probably could be a little bit better.  I'm in a really good position going into the weekend.  I hope that no one gets too far ahead this afternoon.  See what I can do tomorrow and give myself a chance going into Sunday.   Q.  You said you have got loads of chances, is this one of those feel good courses?  You enjoy playing on links and it gives you the opportunities?  SHANE LOWRY: I've always enjoyed playing links golf.  It suits my eye, I think.  It's one of those places when I saw it I quite liked it straightaway.  I'm showing that on this course the last couple of days.   Q.  Some of those courses have those rogue bounces, this one seems fair, doesn't it?  SHANE LOWRY: It is a fair links golf course.  You play well here, you shoot good scores.  It's one of those when you hit your tee shot, you know whether it's good or bad or indifferent.  You have to hit the ball well off the tee here I think is key and you get chances from there.   Q.  Did I hear you say that it's like a couple that you have won on?  SHANE LOWRY: Some of the holes remind me of that because it's quite -- like I said, it's very fair.  The greens are quite big and fairly flat.  If you hit good shots in, you've got chances.  It's got similarities, not too many, but they are there.   Q.  Given the way you have been playing on the big stage, are you particularly excited and thrilled the way your game is at the moment and the opportunities that are coming?  SHANE LOWRY: Things have been going well for me of late.  Everyone knows this game can be tough at times.  When you are going well, you need to enjoy them.  I am.  I'm enjoying playing well and I'm enjoying shooting good scores and I'm enjoying competing.  That's the main thing. I'm really looking forward to the weekend and getting out there tomorrow late afternoon and hopefully shooting a good score again  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT