DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 29, 2015
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHANE LOWRY:   Broke my putter walking off the green.   Things happen.   Aim not proud of myself for doing it.   I apologized to the lads on the last green there.   It's not the thing that people want to be seeing or kids wants to be seeing out there watching. 
Like I say, I'm not very proud of myself for doing what I did but I'm proud of myself for battling the way I did.   I'm proud of Dermot, my caddie, for talking me into staying out on the golf course really.

Q.   Was it that bad?   Did you feel like walking off? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I said after 17, really‑‑ Neil Manchip was there and I said, there's no point in me staying out there.   You hit into a good shot into 20 feet and you can't‑‑ but I managed to start rolling it well.   Battled it well and played well on the back nine.   Lucky, got a way with it.   That's golf.   Golf's a funny game.   It's a weird game and it will drive you mad sometimes.

Q.   And on the greens with your wedge, you made some pretty good shots?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I did.   I holed a nice putt on 7, which was nice.   Gave me a cushion playing 8 and the.   The weather, when I was putting on 8, it was horrific.   I had about four feet and trying to 2‑putt, that's how bad it was.   It was actually unplayable when we were out there but we still had to get on with it.   I'm happy to be in for the weekend.   Like I said, I'm not really proud of myself for what I did but things happen and I wear my heart on my sleeve; I'm a passionate player and that's what has me where I am today.   I'm not going to stop that for anyone really.

Q.   And this tournament means a lot to you?
SHANE LOWRY:   It means everything.   I knew going out there today, if I could get back to par for the tournament, I would be in with a shout going into the weekend.   Missing a short par putt on 12, just got frustrated and things happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT