MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHANE LOWRY:   Obviously I'll be pretty happy to make the cut, the way I've played the last couple of days, I've struggled.   Struggled off the tee a lot.   Drove it okay today but one bad one on 13.   I was just getting it out there.   I wasn't my normal self, and, yeah, holed a great putt on 17, a good putt on the last.   So I mean, it's going to be nice to be here hopefully for the weekend and get another two rounds experience on the golf course for future years, I suppose.

Q.   You were probably due that putt on 17?
SHANE LOWRY:   I didn't really hole much.   I just missed the green on 16 and hit a great chip shot and lipped‑out there.   I don't know what I was doing going for the green on 15, but I did. 

Q.   Did you think you had to chase? 
SHANE LOWRY:   No, no, to be honest, when I got down to the ball, it was a perfect 3‑iron and then ended up hitting a 5‑wood short.   The wind was all over the place.   I shouldn't have went for it.   Should have just knocked it down the fairway and left myself a 70‑yard pitch but hindsight is a wonderful thing. 
I think I deserved at least level par today.   I grinded out there really well and got good up‑and‑downs when I got myself out of position.   It's disappointing for me not to be further up the leaderboard because the way I've played the last sort of ten months, if anything, I would have felt over the last couple of months my chipping has let me down and my chipping feels razor sharp this week.   Luckily enough‑‑ yeah, tied 56th now but I'm pretty sure that's going to make it in for the weekend.

Q.   Did you look at what Mark O'Meara was doing?
SHANE LOWRY:   He played fantastic for two days.   You know, he's definitely still able to play.   He putted lovely.   He just doesn't do anything wrong.   He's a true professional.   He was good to play with.   He's a nice guy.   Yeah, it was good. 

Q.   Can you take something from that‑‑
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, like you can't really take anything from it.   You're just out there trying to grind it yourself.   The way the golf course is playing, the wind is all over the place.   It's going like‑‑ I'd hate to be going down the first there now trying to shoot a score. 

Q.   Yesterday, 11 and 13‑‑
SHANE LOWRY:   Two doubles yesterday‑‑ I said to myself start of the week, you can't afford to make doubles, keep them off the card and I made two of them yesterday. 
I didn't play well enough yesterday to shoot any better.   I finished nicely.   Got off to a decent start today.   Should have birdied the eighth to get to 2‑under for the round and hit a lovely second shot into the ninth hole and it just goes downwind and over the back of the green and made a great up‑and‑down.   I was quite happy walking to the 10th tee‑‑ I hit a decent tee shot down there.   Just didn't hit a good tee shot.   If I hit a good tee shot, I was 20 yards down the fairway and hitting a 7‑iron, and instead I'm on the slope hitting 5‑iron in.   That's the difference between it being a good score out there and not.   You need to really position yourself, like for example, the 10th hole, you really need to get it well down there.   But I'm on the score I'm on and to be honest, I'm pretty happy to be playing two more rounds here. 

Q.   Do you feel the pressure to come off and play a bit more freely‑‑
SHANE LOWRY:   You know, I just think I was swinging the club badly.   I think I'm getting so far underneath it.   It's not ideal when you're trying to sort that out on the Friday morning of the Masters. 
I'll go to the range this afternoon for a while and see how I get on.   You know, the ideal thing for me with that, I'd just stand and hit fades, but you can't do it around here. 

Q.   Did you go to the range last night?
SHANE LOWRY:   I did.   I went for about half an hour.   I hit some good shots actually.   Kind of found what I was doing wrong, but it's a lot harder to trust it out on the golf course.   Like on the first I tried to hit a little fade and got a way with it, hit a lovely second shot.   Played all right.   Missed my drive down the second but I'm not getting myself into position to shoot a real low score.   You really have to drive it in position and give yourself a position that's there.   I'm just not getting myself there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT