MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHANE LOWRY:   I said, let's keep it under 40 on the back nine and try to shoot 75 or less, and that's what I did.   Great chance at the last.   Quite unlucky, a couple inches shorter and I was back of the hole. 
Disappointed with the score, but still, going out tomorrow, if I can shoot 69 tomorrow, I'll be okay.

Q.   Do you feel that with your first round at Augusta out of the way and all the anticipation of it, that maybe you can play with more freedom? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I feel like I was playing with freedom today.   I pushed my driver a little bit on the first and got up and hit a great second shot and just missed the cut. 
In practice, I've been having that left, to have that low snap‑hook in my bag at the minute, and it comes out‑‑ it's been coming out every now and then, the two holes you really don't want it on; you get away with it on most holes.   You hit it on the first, you probably make bogey but you get away with it.   But the two holes you couldn't really hit it on, I hit it on today. 
Listen, that's the way it is.   I'm going to have to shoot a score now.   Like I said, my goal now is to make the halfway cut and try and get four rounds around here.

Q.   What happened on 13 and what were the things you did really well, because you made plenty of birdies? 
SHANE LOWRY:   That's the thing.   My golf is okay.   It's not that bad.   It's just like that shot is just so bad that you can't afford to hit a shot like that on a golf course like this.   You get away with it on some holes, like I said, but because I have that in the bag, I'm probably not driving it‑‑ I'm kind of steering it a little bit. 

Q.   On 11, for example, looking at Amen Corner there. 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I holed a great putt on 9 to stay level par and I was thinking to myself, you know, going okay here, if I can get through 10 and 11, and all of a sudden you have a chance of shooting a good score. 
Just hit a bad second shot on 10, poor bunker shot, made bogey.   Then hit my drive down the right‑hand side on 11 and it didn't really kick back left for me.   Hit in the semi‑rough and tried to carve a rescue around the trees, overhanging trees, and pulled it into the water and obviously didn't get up‑and‑down. 
From there, you're kind of, you know‑‑ I hit a good shot into 12.   Like I said, there's plenty of good shots but just a couple of bad shots in there that I need to get rid of. 

Q.   The examination is tough here; there's a question all the time. 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, there is.   The greens are quite receptive today, but even so, like you find yourself out of position, it's quite difficult. 
So I had a decent shot into 15 today and the chip I had, I mean, if I didn't get that coming out with enough spin, it was straight into the water.   I could have easily hit a decent chip shot and chipped into the water there.   That's just the type of place this is. 
Yeah, another day tomorrow.   My goal from here now is obviously to get back to level par and get back to under par as soon as I can, and hopefully that's tomorrow. 

Q.   Do you feel mentally or physically drained standing here now?
SHANE LOWRY:   No, not at all.   It was just a bit of a roller coaster round for me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT