DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 23, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Congratulations on an excellent final round, may not win the championship but does achieve one objective, getting you in the Top‑50 in the world and you're off to Augusta if you stay there till the end of the year.   How excited are you about that?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it was one of the goals for me playing these last four tournaments.   I've been between 52 and 54 in the world for a month or so now and I felt like I have been playing the golf to have the high finish to get in there.   Just wasn't scoring well, and finishing 15th to 25th in tournaments.   Nice, high finish this week is going to do it for me.   So I'm thrilled and I can't wait till next April.

Q.   How much pressure did you feel that back nine, knowing the dream was hanging there?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, even the tee shot on the last, I had a look at eagle there.   Carved it up the right and hit it in the rock in the hazard and bounced in the fairway, 40 yards up the fairway from where I should have been.   I got so much bad luck at the start of the year, I was due a bit of good luck. 

Q.   I take it that's a lovely way to finish The European Tour season. 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it was by far my best season.   It was nice to finish it with a 66.   Going to finish hopefully in the Top‑50 in The Race to Dubai or quite close.   It's been a great year.   There's been a lot of ups and a lot of downs as usual, but thankfully the highs were a lot better than the lows this year. 

Q.   You are smiling, but there were plenty of times out there you've been scowling across the week where things haven't worked out.   So mixed feelings? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I do feel like I got in my own way a lot this week.   I do feel like I played the golf to win the tournament this week.   It was a bit disappointing in one way but it's the end of a long season.   It was a bit stressful and that's all you can do really. 

Q.   The bigger picture is nice, well into the world's Top‑50. 
SHANE LOWRY:   I don't know where I'm going to jump in the World Rankings but hopefully a few spots and hopefully I can go to Sun City now in two weeks and jump up another few spots there.   Yeah, the future is bright. 

Q.   Within season finishes, another one does start pretty abruptly; are you staying out here a little while?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I'll have a holiday here for a week, and go straight to Sun City and four weeks at home in Ireland.   Looking forward to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT