DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 20, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was the key to that little run?  
SHANE LOWRY:   I think I putted quite nicely today.   I struggled, had a bad bogey on 10 and I was struggling up the 12th hole, quite a tough hole and holed about a 15‑footer for par which kind of got me going and I holed a nice putt on the next.   The par5, hit three decent shots and holed that putt, as well.   The greens are beautiful out there.   They are perfect, so I have no excuses.  
   
 Q.   Last week in Turkey, you started the final round, got yourself tied for the lead and basically blew up.   Were you able to putt that behind you?  
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, Sunday was quite a difficult day for me.   The last 12 holes was just kind of couldn't wait to get here to be honest.   Once I got here on Monday, I was fine.   
Obviously I put myself into contention which is a positive I can look at from last week.   I'm just looking to give myself the same chance this week and maybe I won't mess it up.  
   
 Q.   Currently 52nd in the world, Top‑50 at the end of the year get into the Masters and all sorts.   How much is that your thinking?   
SHANE LOWRY:   Has been for the last while.   It's been playing on my mind.   I just sat down with my coach this week.   He's here with me and we said to each other, just try and go out and play well and let everything else take care of itself.   Thankfully that's what I did today so far and hopefully I have three more days of it.   
   
 Q.   Talk about 66 around here.   
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it's pretty good.   Any time you shoot 66 anywhere, it's quite decent.   But this golf course can be difficult at times.   I went out there today, played nicely.   Played one real bad hole and other than that, played beautiful golf.   Pretty happy.   
   
 Q.   Pretty special run coming home with four in five.   
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it was.   It was nice.   I holed putts coming in and hit the ball well.   Hit a beautiful iron shot into 17 and into 18, as well.   It's the thing that's been letting me down of late, my iron play.   Those are two shots that I can take into tomorrow, as well.  
   
 Q.   How easy was it to regroup after presumably the disappointment of last Sunday?  
SHANE LOWRY:   It's not too bad.   The whole day Sunday, obviously the flight over, and then down here, the flight down here, you're thinking about it.   It's one of those things, I gave myself a chance to win last week.   If I can give myself a chance to win again this week, maybe I'll do it.   
   
 Q.   Because essentially you're playing some very good golf, aren't you?  
SHANE LOWRY:   I have been.   I have been for most of the year.   I've been very consistent.   I've been shooting some great scores, making a lot of birdies and I did that today again.  
   
 Q.   Is your mind on the bigger prizes, as well, elite field and a lot at stake?  
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, there's a lot at stake this weekend.   First and foremost, I've got to go out tomorrow and play decent golf and just keep doing what I've been doing.     
   
 Q.   What would you say your relationship with this course has been like?  
SHANE LOWRY:   It's been quite good.   First year I played here, I finished seventh.   I can't remember what score I was on but it was definitely in the teens.   I've shot some decent scores.   I've played here, any time I come to Dubai in January practicing, I play up here.   
So I know the course quite well.   I only played nine holes this week before I went out there today.   So I know the course quite well, and any time I know a course well, I seem to like it and seem to get on well it.   
   
 Q.   Hard to play nine holes in practise when you feel knackered?   
SHANE LOWRY:   I played nine yesterday and there was definitely no room for any more.   That's the way it's been.   It's been a long year and been an eventful year but a good year.   I've got three more days left in this season and hopefully it will be three good ones.  
   
 Q.   When you shoot 66, obviously you don't do very much wrong.   Were you holing putts?   
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I putted quite nicely today.   Drove it quite well, too.   I don't know how many fairways I missed but definitely wasn't too many.   The 5‑iron to 17 probably summed up my day.   I've been struggling with that club literally.   Hit it to six feet.   It was into off the left, quite a tough shot but that was the shot of the day for me.   
   
 Q.   The clubs that went out of the bag this week‑‑  
SHANE LOWRY:   Everything's the same.  
   
 Q.   Just ask about a few of the birdies.   The 5th?  
SHANE LOWRY:   Good up‑and‑down on 4.   Hit 5‑wood off the fifth and that's a sand wedge.   That's a hole where you want to give yourself a chance.   
   
 Q.   How far?  
SHANE LOWRY:   Six feet.   
   
 Q.   10?  
SHANE LOWRY:   I struggled with that tee shot last year.   Tried to hit driver again year but won't be hitting driver down there again tomorrow.   It was left, up against the bush but got lucky.   I was able to stand in the bush and got a swing and hit it pin‑high and hit a poor chip and missed the putt.     
Rolled in about a 15‑footer on 12.   From there, you're trying to hold onto shoot something in the 60s.   Rolled about a 25‑footer in on the next.   You're looking at 14 and 18 are good chances.   15, as well.   Had a good save on 15, too.   When I got in trouble today, I did okay and rolled in birdie putts when I had chances.   The greens are magnificent out there.   
   
 Q.   I think you said to the guys the other day that you were sick of talking about the Top‑50.   Is that when you sat down with your coach and just said, let's try to forget about it and play?  
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, just try to play good golf.   At the end of the day, it's the only thing that makes me happy‑‑ well, it isn't the only thing that makes me happy.   But when I'm out on the golf course playing good golf, if I can do that, I can try and let everything else to take care of itself.   
   
 Q.   14 and 16?  
SHANE LOWRY:   14, I hit a good driver.   It was a yard into the rough and I couldn't really go for it.   I had 240 front and hit a 9‑iron down.   Hit a 4‑iron and lob‑wedge to 15 feet and holed it.  
16 I had a good drive and 9‑iron to three feet and 17 I hit 5‑iron to six feet.   
15, I missed the green right.   Had a very difficult pitch.   Great shot to four feet and made that.   
   
 Q.   How are the greens?  
SHANE LOWRY:   Downgrain they are quite quick.   I wouldn't say they are overly quick.   They are beautiful, great pace.   Not sure what they are running at but I definitely seen the lines today.   Hopefully will see them for the rest of the week, as well.   
They were beautiful greens.   We were one of the late groups around and they weren't cut up at all.   I know there's not many in the field but you normally get greens that cut up quite easily.   They didn't cut up at all.   
   
 Q.   And you're going to Nedbank?   
SHANE LOWRY:   I'm going, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT