ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So how satisfying is 2‑under par with a round of 70 today to move up that board again?  
    SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I mean to be honest, the way I played to shoot 2‑under was quite good.   The forecast was pretty bad today and everyone was expecting the worst, but it wasn't actually that bad today.   It played quite easy toward the end and I could have picked up a couple more, but I'm happy with the position I'm in, and in a decent spot now with two rounds to go and hopefully I can go out to Carnoustie tomorrow and hopefully the weather is not too bad over there and I can shoot a decent score.  
   
 Q.   You certainly had your ups and downs today.   
    SHANE LOWRY:   I did, yeah.   I got off to a bad start‑‑ no, I got off to a good start, birdied 10, and then made a few bogeys, was 2‑over, then to 7 and 8, hit a bad chip way too hard and I hit the middle of the flag and that went in, and I kind of swung things around, I birdied the 18th as well.   Then I turned on to the Front 9, played quite nicely, but for the third hole, which was probably one of the easiest holes on the course, made bogey on that hole.   I made a couple of birdies coming in which is nice, you know.  
   
 Q.   These courses have all got their own character, haven't they?  
    SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah.   They're all different.   It's a great place to be playing golf.   Yeah, it's nice to be out there.   I mean as I said, everyone was expecting the worst with the weather today.   I really think it was fine here.   I don't know what it was like in Carnoustie or Kingsbarns, but it was okay out there today.  
   
 Q.   And certainly right at the moment the wind has died down.   I know you've been out there six hours, so you don't want to go out again, but it's kind of‑‑ you can see scores improving, can't you?  
    SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah.   Scores will improve.   I think a few lads have five or six holes to play will definitely be looking to pick up maybe two shots.   But yeah, I'm in a nice position, as I said, hopefully I can go out to Carnoustie tomorrow and shoot a decent score.  
   
 Q.   I know at Kingsbarns yesterday you were touching on your form.   Presumably came into this event full of confidence thinking this is a good week for me?  
    SHANE LOWRY:   Definitely.   I was very confident coming into this week.   Had a nice week off, and I was looking forward to it, have been looking forward to it for a while.   Just try and put myself into a position going into Sunday that I can attack the leader, whoever he is, or if it's me, I can push on, so yeah, see what happens.  
   
 Q.   How is the dynamic of playing with an amateur for three days or maybe four?  
    SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it's fine.   I mean I play with Jerry McManus.   I play with him every year, so we get on well.   We're doing okay in the team.   We probably could be a little bit better in the team as well, but yeah, it's fine.   I quite enjoy it.   It's nice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT