PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Fair to say you expected to play quite well. 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I got off to a bit of a shaky start.   I wasn't very comfortable out there, and then I birdied 17 and 18 to get back to 1‑under, and missed a tittler on the second, I think I was inside two feet.   Hit a bad tee shot on 3 and then hit a poor pitch shot and holed about a 15‑footer for par and that kind of got me going.   Felt really comfortable after that.   Just played decent from there on in.   Couple of chances, probably could have had one or two more, but other than that, I'm happy enough.

Q.   This is an illustration how a good run of form feeds into a big event like this, and the difference between coming into a PGA last year where you were happy to make the cut and this year, where you want to do a lot more than that. 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I suppose that's just the way I'm feeling coming into this week and the way I'm feeling as a player now, to be coming into these type of tournaments and trying to contend and compete. 
Yeah, I'm where I want to be.   I'm only three off the lead.   Shot a decent number today and I'm out first thing in the morning.   So hopefully the greens will be nice and temperature will be a little bit cooler.   Yeah, it will be nice out there.

Q.   High finishes in The Scottish Open, Wentworth and Hoylake; is there anything different going on than what you've been doing before? 
SHANE LOWRY:   To be honest a few people have asked me, and I'm trying not to think about it.   When you're playing good, you try not to think about what you're doing.   You just try to keep it going and ride the crest of that wave. 

Q.   Now you're going to be patient; but when you're patient and you have a chance, what do you do for the next round and going into the weekend? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Just keep doing what I'm doing.   I'm driving the ball well, so it's driver on every hole for me, and get out there and make as many birdies as I can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT