THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHANE LOWRY: It was a tough day because I already feel like I hit -- I hit a bad drive off 7, but thought I hit a decent tee shot off 8, and it didn't even carry through the wind.  It was a shock to the system. And then bogeyed 9.  I mean, it felt like I hadn't hit a bad shot over two days and all of a sudden I'm back to 1-over. I'm proud of myself the way I regrouped and the way I played the back nine.  I gave myself a chance on pretty much every hole on the way in.  I didn't really hole anything.  It was nice to birdie the last and get back to under par.  I just hope that the conditions stay the way they are.  The forecast is for the wind to calm down, which is not going to be great for us sitting in the clubhouse looking at the leaders that are playing. It is what it is.  I am where I am.  And I'm playing well enough to make a charge on the weekend.Q. What did it feel like standing on that 10th tee?SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, by then I was just trying to make the putt from there, because it's not easy down in that wind.  Like I hit my 3-iron down the 11th hole.  I must have hit it probably -- it nearly went 350 yards.  So the ball is going a crazy distance out there. But I feel like I played great the last two days.  And I'm only 1-under.  It was a bit annoying but it was very tough out there this morning.  And a little bit on the wrong side of the draw.  You can't do anything about that.  But I'm here for the weekend.  I'm under par.  So if you ask me would I have taken this on Wednesday, I probably would have. So I'm probably going to be 5 or 6 back going into on the weekend.  You never know.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: Like, yeah, I got on with it.  You know, birdieing 11 was huge to get back to par.  And I was saying to myself, just try to hang on from here, and see what I can do coming in.  I managed to play the golf course perfectly.  The par on 16 was sloppy.  I hit a poor tee shot off there.  I hit two great tee shots in the last under a little bit of pressure that I put myself under to make birdie.  So I'm happy enough.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: 4-iron.  Yeah.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I think I got a gust into.  We had the wind kind of helping out to the left.  It was only a 196 carry, but we weren't talking about the carry, we were talking about the run out on the bunker.  I did pull it a little bit, but when I seen the end of its flight, it kind of dropped really hard right, it looked like it.  I got a gust into it.  I think I was a little unlucky there.  It's things like that that are hard to take.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: I thought it was down the fairway.  If anything, I thought it was maybe a hair left of Ollie's ball.  Chesson, his ball didn't carry too much farther either.  Yeah, just hit the wrong club.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: You don't want to know.  I'm not able to say that.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: I mean, in a way it was a good thing, it was a new nine.  I played the 10th well.  I hit a poor enough pitch shot, but hit a good tee shot, good 5-wood.  Then I hit a poor enough pitch shot.  A new nine, trying to shoot under par for nine holes is all I could try to do and I did. As I said, I think I handled myself well out there, and I think I played the back nine very well.  I gave myself a chance on almost every hole.  I'm confident going into the weekend.  Probably couldn't have played any better over two rounds.  7 and 8 were a big killer today, but that's golf.  And that's the way links golf goes sometimes. Like I played 7 sensibly.  Had an awful lie in the rough and just laid it up.  And just hit a poor enough third shot.  Just misjudged the yardage a little bit, I suppose.  To three-putt from there was kind of a bit annoying, as well. But to say I handled myself well, and hopefully I can do something on the weekend.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, yeah.  I had my ball under control and driving the ball well.  My distance control with my irons is good.  And I'm playing well in the wind and crosswinds.  I'm hitting good shots.  So I hit the ball into the wind and downwind.  I have everything in the bag that I need to have a good weekend.  Hopefully I can go out there tomorrow and do something and see what happens.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: I seen he tweeted me last night.  I went to his European title fight up in Belfast.  It was about a year and a half ago, which was good. I seen that.  It's good, I get on well with lots of people, and I think we're all the same as each other in Ireland, and it's good to have their backing, as well.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT