THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHANE LOWRY: I kind of hit driver a little bit on the back nine.  If you lay back you leave yourself a long way into these greens, and it's tough to get it anywhere close.  If you lay back you're sort of playing for par.  So I took on the back nine.  I hit driver on 17, hit driver on 18, as well.  When you hit a good driver, it kills the hole.  On 17 I was between 8- and 9-iron.  And down 18 it was just a nice 5-wood onto the green. And fair enough you might over the course of the week hit it in the bunker once or twice.  But the way I hit my driver, I'm confident with the way I hit my driver.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: I hit driver on 10.  I was 1-over after 9.  I could have gotten away with a 5-wood down there.  But I decided to hit driver down there, and I didn't hit a good drive.  After that I didn't miss a tee shot.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it was even a different golf course than the one I was watching back at the house on TV.  I couldn't believe how firm the greens were playing.  The par 3 6th hole was tough to stop the ball on the green.  Any downwind holes, you know, is playing a lot different than yesterday.  And when you see 6-under leading and a good few under pars, well, it's hard not -- I think I was getting a little annoyed on the front nine because a couple of bogeys and silly mistakes, but managed to make a few on the back nine.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I did.  I think on the front nine, as well, I got the feel.  I feel I got a couple of unlucky breaks.  I hit a bad second shot on the first par 5.  I think it's the 5th.  But everyone was struggling to make five.  And I hit an okay shot into 7.  And it just ran through the back and went -- I mean a foot into the rough and it was just an awful lie.  I hit a shot to 6 or 8 feet.  A couple of things happened that made up for that.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: I can't.  Listen, there's a long way to go.  It's going to be a long three days.  So I just have to -- as I said, go back and have some dinner and go to bed and get up and see what happens tomorrow.Q. (Inaudible.)SHANE LOWRY: No one's been struck down with any food poisoning, so that's all right.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT