ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts on this week and the way it's panned out and the 10‑under par finish?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I mean, I'm going to finish in the top 5 and I mean, if you'd have given to me at the start of the week, I'd have taken it.   But the way I played today, that's probably the worst 5‑under I've ever shot in my life.   The golf course was easy out there today.   There was no wind for 15 holes, and I gave myself a lot of chances.   Didn't hole much apart from one eagle putt. 
But it's good signs going into next week.   As I said, I hit most fairways and I hit every green today, so it was pretty flawless golf out there.   Putter was cold all day but good signs going into next week.

Q.   You must have been so buoyant the way you started with those early birdies?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I knew I needed to get off to a good start.   You look at the stop of the leaderboard and think Justin is the man to beat and that's the way it's looking now.   I thought I was going to have to shoot 10‑ or 11‑under‑‑ I thought, eight, nine would have a chance but he's 16‑under now and it would have been nice for me to make a few more birdies. 
I gave myself a lot of chances but that's the way it is.   It's a decent finish and good World Ranking points and Race to Dubai points and I'm happy enough.

Q.   And good preparation for Hoylake? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Brilliant, this golf course, it's one of the best links courses I've played and it's great preparation for next week.   It's not just stand up and hit driver.   You've got to think your way around the place which is what Royal Liverpool is going to be like.   Yeah, great preparation and really looking forward to next week.

Q.   Were you just naturally making the shots that are ingrained after your tradition of playing links golf?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I grew up in Ireland but all my tournaments were on links golf courses.   Growing up that's where I learned to play my golf and I'm well able to play it and I see the sea shots very well out here.   That's half the battle, you just have to go out and do it and thankfully I did it most of the time this week.

Q.   How familiar are you with Hoylake?
SHANE LOWRY:   I've actually never played it.   I get nine holes tomorrow afternoon.   Really excited and looking forward to getting down there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT