THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it is.  I mean to shoot 65 in the final round of the major, especially when you're looking at the top of the leaderboard makes me feel good about myself.  I know if I have a chance down the line that is there, and I can play the golf.  I'm pretty pleased with myself.  I said to Dermot on the last, "If I can hole this, strange things happen in golf.  You never know."  It was a little bit left, it was a little bit short.  I didn't want to run it too far past. Great week, and enjoyed every minute it.  And a couple of mistakes here and there, but that's going to happen.  And for most of the week I played pretty good golf.   Q.  You've been playing well since Wentworth.  Are there any (inaudible)?  SHANE LOWRY: I think so, as regards to World Ranking points and jumping up that, I think that's where you need to perform in big tournaments like that.  I'm just hoping I can sneak a top five, and might be good enough to get into Firestone.  That's where I'm at now. So I just hope I can break into the top 50 in the next few months, and then come out all guns blazing next year.   Q.  Seven birdies today (inaudible).  SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's a sign of good golf.  My iron play has been quite good.  And I didn't hole much on the front nine today.  I gave myself a chance on pretty much every hole apart from the first.  I holed a couple of putts coming in which were nice.  On 15 and 16, it was really nice.  And to birdie the last was really good, as well.   Q.  Just the feeling out there, the final day at The Open Championship, taking the course apart, what was that like?  SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's great.  I felt so in control.  And I don't know why, because if you talked to my Neil Manchip my coach, I was fuming leaving the range this morning.  I didn't hit a good shot.  My last shot on the range was a low snap poke with me driver.  I just said, here, give my driver to Dermot.  I'm just going to play and see what happens. Thankfully I hit it a little straighter than I did on the range and managed to hole a few putts.   Q.  Do you see an Open victory in your future?  SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I mean, as I said all week, I'm very comfortable in these surroundings.  I love links golf.  And I think I'm good in bad conditions.  So I mean, when you come to The Open -- I'm hopefully going to play another 15 or 20 Opens in my career.  And when you come to an Open you don't know what weather to expect; you might play under any conditions. I think I could do it down the line, but I'm obviously not going to -- if I give myself the chance to do it, I know I can do it on Sunday.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, that putt on the last would have helped again.  But I think I'd have to go over to the PGA in a few weeks and do something extra special over there to even have a half a sniff of getting near the team. I haven't thought about it all year.  I'm not going to start thinking about it now.   Q.  Can you talk about what it is that kind of turned it around for you?  SHANE LOWRY: Don't know.  I honestly don't know.  Because I've putted a little bit better than I had done at the start of the third year.  It's not like I was hitting the ball off the planet when I was shooting some bad scores.  I wasn't scoring well.  I wasn't getting the ball around well.  It was nearly -- I was playing nearly golf all the time. I went to Spain and made the cut nicely there, top 15 there was kind of kick-started my season.  I chipped in on the last, give me a little bit of extra momentum going into Wentworth.  And obviously Wentworth opened up with a 64.  So I mean, from there on, I just kind of have to really looked back.  I missed a couple of cuts since that.  I've been playing good golf, and things are good.   Q.  The two putts, what were the length?  SHANE LOWRY: Say, 15 or 18 feet on 15.  I was 5-under at the time, was I?  Or 4-under.  4-under at the time for the day.  And I hadn't really holed anything.  It was nice to hole that one. And similar putt on the next.  Just kind of a little left right to the start and straight in.   Q.  After that snap-up did you go straight to the tee?  SHANE LOWRY: No, I went down to the players' lounge and had a coffee and just had a little bit of food.  I sat down with Neil and just chatted about -- just picked small targets on every shot and that seemed to work.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  Hit the driver on the first.  SHANE LOWRY: No, hit 3-iron on the first.  No -- yeah, driver down the second.  Did I?  18 greens last Sunday in regulation.  Sunday golf is okay.  No bogeys again.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SHANE LOWRY: It's not far off.  It wasn't that hard out there.  But under certain circumstances probably I think scoring-wise, yes, it's not far off it.  Definitely not far off it.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SHANE LOWRY: Oh, on the third hole?  Yeah.  I know.  When things like that happen, you think, what are we in for today?  But I hung in nicely, and delighted with it.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SHANE LOWRY: Very good.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I mean, it's obviously -- actually me and Dermot were speaking coming down the last, I think his "A" game right now is pretty much almost unbeatable, which is pretty scary how good he is.  Yeah, he's only 25 but he's been an unbelievable talent since he was a kid.  Anything he does you're not surprised to see it.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SHANE LOWRY: I have a flight at 8:00.  Need to get home.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SHANE LOWRY: I grew up part of an Irish team and part of a Leinster team; we were always winners.  We were always winning tournaments.  And always winning tournaments.  That's where I got my winning mentality and my kind of competitive edge that I need to play and compete over here.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SHANE LOWRY: To be honest, I can't remember much as amateurs.  But the one thing that stands out in my mind is how good he played when I played a practice round with him at Congressional.  And that's why I think his good golf -- his best golf is almost unbeatable.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT