THE IRISH OPEN
June 17, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL SYMES:   Many thanks for joining us, Shane.   We appreciate it, as always.   Imagine as a proud Irishman, you've been looking forward this week for quite some time.
SHANE LOWRY:   I have, yes.   I managed to get down here a couple of times in the last few months and it actually worked out well.   When I found out I qualified for the U.S. Open, I didn't need to come down and play too many practise rounds. 
Yeah, the golf course is great and it's going to be a fantastic week with the weather forecast we have and I'm really looking forward to it.
PAUL SYMES:   Last time you were here for Media Day you said you were searching for a bit of form, and that's certainly not the case anymore.   You feel like you've turned the corner? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I have.   Even though I missed the cut last week, I felt a bit unlucky and was a bit disappointed.   Felt like I played well enough to make the cut.   If I had a level par weekend, would have done okay over there. 
So, yeah, obviously feel like I'm playing well so I feel like I can do something this week.   Just try to get off to a decent start and get within a couple of shots on Saturday and Sunday, you never know what can happen. 
PAUL SYMES:   New sponsor; business good off the course as well as on.
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, just announced Bank of Ireland have come on board and delighted to be associated with such a great brand, and a brand that has Ireland and as an Irishman that has Ireland in the name, as well.   So, exciting for me.

Q.   How much extra pressure does it bring playing in front of Irish people at The Irish Open?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I mean, last year, I remember I was playing my home course, home tournament, and I sort of was feeling pressure coming off.   I spoke to a few people, and if you do it the right way, you can actually turn things around and use those to your advantage. 
I'm playing on a golf course that I know quite well, in front of my friends and family.   I mean, where else do you want to be in the world?   There's no place I'd rather be this week than playing here.   I'm looking forward to it and I'm trying to use it to my advantage, as opposed to anything else. 

Q.   Is your confidence where it needs to be to win here again?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I generally don't like to talk about wining, but I do feel I'm coming here this week to contend.   Someone might shoot a better score than me and pip me, and I might not do as well as I'd like to; but I feel that I can come here and think about it and have that winning mentality.   I really feel like my game is where I want it to be at the minute, and I'm really excited about the next four days. 

Q.   And what would it mean to you to win again? 
SHANE LOWRY:   I don't know if I can describe what it would mean to win it as a pro, would be‑‑ yeah, would be fantastic.   It would be everything, really.

Q.   The great weather, should be great crowds, as well. 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, the crowds, I believe the last time I was here in 2001, 2002, there was 35,000‑odd thousand people here on the Saturday.   I'd say we are expecting pretty similar crowds this week and it should be a great week, yeah.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT