BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What is your verdict on what has been a remarkable performance this week? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I mean, to be honest, I feel very unlucky.   You know, I felt like I hit some great shots coming in, and like I hit probably best 5‑iron of my whole year to 15, and ended up making bogey, which is a bit annoying, especially after bouncing back from a double with a birdie.   And the double bogey, as well. 
I know I hit a poor tee shot, and probably the only Bush like that on the course and found myself in it and was struggling from there.   But to hole the putt on the last and to finish second on my own is really nice.   It's given me a lot of World Ranking points and a lot of Race to Dubai points, as well.

Q.   There was elation as if you had won the championship, even though you presumably knew at that stage as you couldn't?
SHANE LOWRY:   I tried to play 18 pretty much as a three‑shotter all week.   Hit my tee shot and heard the roar as I was walking down.   I said to my caddie, Darren, he's up there making birdie. 
I didn't come here to lay up, I came here to win the tournament and to win the tournament, I had to make eagle.   Didn't hit a great second shot, got fortunate, hit a poor third shot and managed to hole the putt which was nice.

Q.   Were you aware of the lead you had built?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I knew I went three ahead after 12.   To be honest I've struggled with that tee shot all week.   I hit it left three times‑‑ twice or three times up there, and, yeah, struggled.   You can blast it into the crowd and be okay.   I just struggled with that tee shot.   I got a bit unlucky, hit a great putt on 17, and it just broke more than I thought.   Obviously one short. 

Q.   There are so many positives, aren't there, in terms of World Ranking points‑‑
SHANE LOWRY:   My season hasn't been going great but I did fancy myself coming in here, I really, really did.   I love this place.   And you know, I thought today was my day, but obviously not; hopefully next year.

Q.   Not a bad man to lose to. 
SHANE LOWRY:   Exactly.   Rory, he's definitely one of the best golfers I've ever played golf with and I've been lucky enough to play a lot of golf with him.   He's had his struggles over the last couple years and delighted for him, and obviously I'm a bit disappointed I fell one short myself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT