BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2014
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SHANE LOWRY:   Any time you shoot in the low 60s around Wentworth, it's a good day.   I love it around here.   Done okay here in the past and really looking forward to getting here from last week onwards, and went out there and managed to shoot a decent score.  
   
 Q.   Okay in the past means Top‑5, three years ago or something, which is more than just okay.   Presumably you come here thinking, yeah, this is a course I like.   
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, definitely.   I think with about six holes to play last year, I had a chance, as well.   You know, I finished badly, finished 12th or something like that.   But yeah, I love coming here.   It's a great event.   It's a great golf course.   You know, some decent weather here.   We had some great conditions this morning for scoring.   The course is quite receptive.   Managed to hole a few putts.  
   
 Q.   You've come back despite the gaps and delays we've had.   Do you notice a difference in the course?  
SHANE LOWRY:   We had about a 45‑minute delay.   We were kept out on the course when I was on 16 and just seen my second shot on 16, one back‑‑ which you definitely wouldn't have seen that on Tuesday.   Obviously I was on the 18th tee when we were called in again, which I don't really fancy that tee shot at the best of times.   It was good to give myself a chance for birdie.   
   
 Q.   Forgive me, I'll ask this, where have you been?   I don't mean to be rude but we haven't seen you for a little while?  
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I've been struggling to be honest.   Feel like my game has been okay but just been struggling on the greens.   If you look at my stats and my stuff, that's where I'll point you to.   Managed to hole a few putts this week.   Putted nicely last week in Spain, so yeah, putted well today, so hopefully can keep it going for another three days.   
   
 Q.   8‑under par today, ten birdies in your round, and six birdies on the back nine, fantastic golf.   What was the key to your success today?   
SHANE LOWRY:   I played nicely and I holed a few putts.   It's nice to get off to a good start.   I kind of missed my drive down the first, missed it a little bit and had a lovely shot into about eight feet and holed that.   A nice way to get going and birdied the second, as well, and was off and running then.   As I said, I holed a few putts and I played okay, hit some good shots and got around nicely.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about your season, how it's going so far?  
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I've been struggling a bit so far.   My best finish was last week, tie 15th.   Other than that, I've missed a few cuts and haven't really been putting that well but managed to find something at home a couple weeks ago and hopefully keep it going.  
   
 Q.   What did you find?   
SHANE LOWRY:   I don't know, I went back to an old putter that I used years ago, and brought back good memories maybe.   Hopefully it will keep going.   
   
 Q.   What is it about Wentworth?   Why do you like coming here?   
SHANE LOWRY:   I like coming here.   Obviously it's our biggest event of the year.   It's a great golf course and we are looked after really well.   I really enjoy being here and it's nice playing in front of decent crowds here, as well.   Everything I enjoy about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT