THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2013
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHANE LOWRY:  I only hit one bad shot and that was on 14.
I didn't hit a great shot on 16, either.  I should have made par
there.  Missed a short putt.
I think 70 was the worst score I could have shot today,
yeah.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHANE LOWRY:  Yeah, it did.  It's that type of golf
course, I think.  I think where it got away from me was the first
round when I was looking at the leaderboard a bit much, and
looking at everyone making birdie, and I'm quite frustrated when
I'm making bogeys.  It's a bit of a mistake but I've learned from
that, and I'll know not to do it next time.
Q.  You've had two Open Championship appearances, everyone
says if you're ever going to have a chance of winning one, this
might be it?
SHANE LOWRY:  That's a tough question.  But I definitely
know I'm good enough.  I played the par-5s poorly all week.  I
played 14, 15, 16 very poorly all week.  Yeah, ifs and buts.  It
could have been a better week.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHANE LOWRY:  Yeah, definitely with the next few
tournaments I have coming up, Bridgestone and PGA.  I played four
rounds this week, and to do quite well, I think, 9-over doesn't
feel great, but I think it will be definitely inside the top 50.
And get a decent enough check out of it, move up the Merit a
little bit.  I'm quite good.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHANE LOWRY:  Yeah, definitely.  Like I said at the start
of the week, I'm only 26 and I need to play in as many Majors as I
can, although I don't want to play in them all up.  I think in
two, three, four years time I'll be going into Major championships
trying to compete and trying to win them.  I'm not going out there
and trying to compete, if it does happen I'll be delighted.  But I
definitely think it's good enough to happen, but I definitely
think I need to get a bit more experience in them.  As I said, if
I could get four rounds at Bridgestone, and if I can get four
rounds at the PGA I'll be happy enough.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHANE LOWRY:  Pretty much the same as every other week.
Yeah, I suppose when you go and play this golf course, we were
playing it Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, I felt some of the tees
were giving the golf course too much respect.  I feel like you can
go out and do that sometimes.  And then, you know, I went out and
tried to play, because I'm quite an aggressive player, I like
hitting driver, I like to get the ball well down the fairway.  I
feel like the closer I get to the green, the better chance making
a good score on the hole, that's certainly not the case this week.
I suppose I had to adapt a little bit.  And I think my game plan
was quite good.  I think just a golf course with more drivers
would suit me.  18 was probably the hardest tee shot on the
course.  If there's more drivers on it, it probably would have
suited me more.








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT