THE IRISH OPEN
June 30, 2013
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Bit of a difference in 24 hours? 
SHANE LOWRY:   What a difference a day makes.   I went out yesterday and I tried by bit hard and I was doing my best to give this great crowd something to cheer about today. 
You know, I'm going to fall a couple shy, but still a good week.   Delighted the way I played.   You know, disappointed obviously with yesterday, but you know, great week all the same.

Q.   The round started well, three birdies in the first 12 holes and you looked like you were cruising. 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I actually got unlucky on 12.   My tee shot jammed in the hole for a hole‑in‑one; that was to get to 9‑under and I really thought there, after I was 8‑under and I didn't birdie 13 from the front of the green, which I thought if I could pull something like 10 or 11 in the clubhouse‑‑ you know, it's tough out there today.   10‑ or 11‑under won't be far away from winning this tournament.   Not to be for me this year but maybe next year.

Q.   The last four or five holes with the wind, very difficult? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, tough.   15 and 18 are two reachable par 5s which are okay, but 16, 17 has been very tricky.   It's quite tough to hit that green.   You know, there's going to be a few bogeys, maybe a few birdies coming in but I'll be interested to see what happens now with the leaders.

Q.   What's your plans now for next month? 
SHANE LOWRY:   I have a week off now just to chill out.   It's been a long, stressful week this week, but I've enjoyed every minute of it. 
Yeah, then I've got The Scottish Open, British Open and I'll have a week off afterwards and I'll play the Bridgestone Invitational, PGA.   So I'll have a very exciting schedule coming up. 
My golf feels good, so I'm really looking forward to it. 

Q.   69 is an awfully good score in those conditions, give us a sense of how difficult it is out there?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it's very difficult.   The most difficult part is putting.   I hit a few great putts that just got gusts of wind and missed them.   You know, it's a bit of luck involved, as well, so it's very tricky out there and it will be interesting to see what happens now with the leaders.

Q.   When the Big Four missed the cut and the big weight of expectation and the support went with you, how have you found all that?
SHANE LOWRY:   It was quite tough yesterday.   It got to me yesterday.   I was very disappointed the way I finished.   I knew that I didn't really give myself a chance to win today, which is something that I really would have loved to have done, and then all of a sudden after 11 holes today, I thought I had a chance. 
You know, this game is funny, and you know, I learned from yesterday.   I learned a lot from yesterday actually, and hopefully I'll take it with me when I'm in that position again.

Q.   How great to receive the sort of support you did on the last hole? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it was great.   All week the crowds have been brilliant, especially yesterday and today.   They have just been roaring for me, every single one of them, I owe a lot to them.   Very thankful for what we have here in Ireland.   The support is amazing, and you know, it's great to have such a massive tournament in our little country. 

Q.   That gave them something to cheer about, and you, as well, didn't it?
SHANE LOWRY:   It's a decent week and I'm probably going to Top‑10 now in my home tournament.   It's something that I would have loved the chance to win today.   I was sort of thinking if I could get to 10‑ or 11‑under coming in; but the holes are laying very difficult and it's tough to make birdies, but I managed to make a couple on the way in. 
I actually birdied the hard holes, birdied 5, holed a long putt there, which is good.   Didn't birdie 6.   Didn't birdie 8, which was playing on in two today, which is a bit disappointing, and I missed a good chance on 9, as well, so it could have been very special today but unfortunately it wasn't to be.   Maybe next year.

Q.   Appreciate it's been a disappointing week and probably a stressful one, but an enjoyable one nonetheless?
SHANE LOWRY:   I've enjoyed every minute of it.   What's not to enjoy about a week like this?   It's brilliant just playing on my home course in front of the home crowd; what more can I want. 

Q.   Still drinks at your house tonight? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, a little break, week off and then Scotland.   So looking forward to a few tournaments that suit my game.   So looking forward to it. 

Q.   Very good round, 69 today, do you come off the course feeling pleased with that, or thinking what might have been if yesterday was a couple of shots better? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I'm definitely going to sit down when the leaders finish this evening.   I'm definitely going to look at that leaderboard, and I'll be envious of who ever is left on that trophy.   It could have been my name on it again.   But, I mean, it's not to be.   That's what this game is about.   You don't know what's going to happen. 
I'm delighted with the week I had.   I enjoyed every minute of it, and it's something that, yeah, I'll remember for a while.

Q.   It looked after 12 holes like it could be a very special day?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I actually got unlucky on the 12th hole.   The crowd will tell you, but I mean, 5‑iron, I don't know how it didn't go in.   It jammed in the hole and came out the other side to about maybe two inches, and you know, birdied 13.   And ifs and buts are great in golf; hindsight is a wonderful thing.

Q.   Was yesterday as disappointed as you've been after a round of golf?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, most disappointed I've ever been and most frustrated I've ever been.   I calm into yesterday knowing that I had a chance to put myself in a good position to win this tournament, and you know, just got in my own way all day.   Just got in my own way.   I wasn't Shane Lowry yesterday, that's all I can say. 

Q.   It's been a very big week for you representing Carton House; have you enjoyed this week?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I've enjoyed every minute of it.   It's been great and I'm delighted with the crowds that have come out and supported me and supported this tournament over the last few days.   I think we've got some good numbers, so yeah, I'm delighted for the Mallaghan family, they have put on great show here this week. 

Q.   A couple of very good rounds; decent form heading into a big period of the summer? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I am really playing nicely, looking forward to the Scottish Open, British Open, two golf courses that I fancy myself to do well on.   Just have a nice week off this week and chill out for a while and get back into it then for Scotland. 

Q.   You turned it on for the crowd and they stood by you, and you delivered for them today, fair to say?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I definitely wanted to go out and shoot a good score and give them something to roar about.   Even that putt on the fifth hole from 50 feet was a good start to the day.   Yeah, they were great all week and delighted to give them something to cheer about today anyway. 

Q.   You've had a great week in many ways and just one day spoiled it.   I suppose mixed feelings will come into your mind?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, like I said before, I'm going to sit down and watch the end of the golf and whoever is listing the trophy I'll be very envious of them because I know it could have been me.   But that's golf and that's the way it goes.   I gave my best; it just wasn't enough this week.

Q.   As you grow as a golfer, this experience might stand to you?
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it will, a lot of expectation on my shoulders, especially this weekend‑‑ all week but especially this weekend.   Yeah, I learned a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT