THE IRISH OPEN
June 27, 2013
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE TODD:   Want to start by taking us through your day; worked out perfectly for you.   
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it did.   I got off to a shaky enough start, bogey on 10 which wasn't ideal but I knew my golf was good enough coming into the week and really happy with the way I followed that up.   Could have birdied 9 to shoot 66.   
STEVE TODD:   Take us through some highlights of the round.  
SHANE LOWRY:   I suppose I made a nice up‑and‑down on 13, the par 4, after hitting a pretty bad tee shot to miss that green right, but knowing it so well, I know I shouldn't hit it over there, but birdied there and birdied 14 straightaway.   Hit 8‑iron in about six feet.   
Then to birdie 15; so I birdied three in a row to get to 2‑under.   Started cruising from there so it was nice.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.).   
SHANE LOWRY:   Hard to say.   I mean, it's a massive tournament.   Any big tournament as big as this, I'm up for it.   I mean, yeah, definitely I was looking forward to it all week.   
I was looking forward to playing and looking forward to getting out there.   I was kind of chomping at the bit to get out there this morning and I was just sort of almost trying to play my way into the tournament nicely, and, you know, that golf course, you can easily make‑‑ you shoot 75 out there in the blink of an eye by not doing too much wrong.   
So just trying to play my way into it and not start playing my way out of it.   
   
 Q.   You were talking about your momentum from Munich and the importance of the final round, and you've obviously done that; so a quarter of the journey, isn't it.   
SHANE LOWRY:   Exactly, great to shoot 5‑under today and it great to be up at the top of the leaderboard but there's three rounds left.   
Yeah, the momentum from Germany definitely I've brought into this week.   I played decent in the practise round on Tuesday and played pretty much flawless golf yesterday in the Pro‑Am.   
You know, there was quite a few people watching and I was trying not to go too low in the Pro‑Am yesterday because I knew everyone would be shouting about and I didn't really want that and I didn't really want too much hype.   Yeah, playing well but there's still three days left.   
   
 Q.   It's a great crowd of support; even so early in the morning when you turned up.   
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it's brilliant.   The crowd from home are great and I'm sure there's going to be quite a few coming up tomorrow and for the rest of the week.   It's great to have them here and you know, it's a pleasure to be out there dealing with people from home cheering you on.   It's brilliant, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel any sort of pressure from having so many people, the focus on you this week, or is it something you're able to cope with quite easily?   
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I think so.   I've sort of tried to, this week, a lot of people are saying there's going to be a lot of added pressure on me being my home course and me living here and stuff like that but I sort of try to look at that and turn it around, and it's more of an incentive to do well.   
You know, more of‑‑ it's really a privilege to be able to play on my home golf course, stay in my own house and have all of my family and friends up home to watch me.   What more could a professional golfer want.  
   
 Q.   Do you consciously do it?   
SHANE LOWRY:   I don't really know, I just try to, I mean, I just try to enjoy it.   The last couple of days, I've tried to enjoy every minute of it, and sign autographs, take pictures if people want them.   You know, somewhere down the line I'll be first group out on a Thursday morning and there will be no one watching, so might as well enjoy it while I'm here.   
   
 Q.   Is it a positive‑‑  
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it's definitely a positive, I love playing in front of a big crowd, especially my home crowd, so it's great.  
   
 Q.   You know Rory very well; you wouldn't be too worried about a two‑time major winner I would imagine; would where you see his game at the moment?       
SHANE LOWRY:   How did I know he was going to be asking me about this.   
To be honest, I was so focused on my own game today, I wasn't really looking and watching.   I know he shot 2‑over.   I mean, Rory's Rory and I want be too worried about him at all.   He didn't get to world No. 1 by not being a great golfer, and I'm sure he could easily go out tomorrow and shoot 65 again and get right back in this tournament.   
Obviously he has not done well recently, but I think, you know, as I said, Rory is Rory and he'll definitely be back soon.   
   
 Q.   In terms of your challenge this week, where does 2009 fit?   It was a very different circumstance obviously as an amateur?  
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it was, definitely.   I went up to Baltray just happy to be there and tried to enjoy every minute of it and I would have been happy going home with four rounds under my belt but obviously I came away with a lot more than that.  
This week and '09 is like chalk and cheese really.   The preparation going into it is different.   Even the groupings are different, stuff like that.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, but I wasn't going to Baltray in '09 trying to win the tournament.   And you can say I'm coming into this week trying to win the tournament because I'd love to win this tournament but I'm trying not to talk about it too much; on the Sunday evening maybe.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.   
SHANE LOWRY:   If I knew that, Brian‑‑ if I knew that, I'd bottle it and sell it or bottle it and keep it and take it when I'm not playing well.   I mean, I don't know, I actually don't know.   Just suppose I stand up and hit it and go find it and then hit it and go find it again.  
   
 Q.   Do you have the feeling before you hit the ball or from the range or where do you get that feeling, the momentum in a round‑‑  
SHANE LOWRY:   It's hard to say, because like Thursday, Friday in Germany last week, I played good golf.   Didn't really miss a shot and then I go to Saturday and it was like I was a different man.   
   
 Q.   You probably don't want to think about it too much.   
SHANE LOWRY:   Exactly, and they are making me think about it.   
   
 Q.   So what did you do on the first?   
SHANE LOWRY:   I pulled it into the bunker.   
   
 Q.   Great start.   
SHANE LOWRY:   I know I'm swinging the club well and I know I'm playing well, so I just stand up and hit it and see where it goes and hit it again and then when I find it‑‑  
   
 Q.   The start of the day, though, you're in a pro and in this game a long time but the start of the day you hit it in the bunker on the left and you make bogey and you have all the people out there early in the morning; is there almost a panic?   
SHANE LOWRY:   Not really.   Sometimes there is when you do something like that but I was very, very comfortable.   I'm very comfortable in my game at the minute.   
Like I said I played well in the Pro‑Am yesterday, and you know, just went down and chipped it out and I knew I could wedge it‑‑ I was hitting great wedge shots.   I knew there was 17 holes left, 71 holes in the tournament.   That's really the way to think about it.   
STEVE TODD:   Thanks, Shane.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT