BMW MASTERS
October 26, 2012
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about the 64. 
SHANE LOWRY:   It was pretty decent.   I played lovely.   Played lovely yesterday, actually, but I got off to an awful start with a triple on the third hole.   But I managed to get it back.   And then today posted a good number and I'm in a good position going into the weekend now.

Q.   Any key to the round today?
SHANE LOWRY:   Ball‑striking was very good.   I hit it in the fairway almost every hole, and hit probably four shots in stiff that I didn't even have to line up the putts.   That's always a help.   Holed a couple of other putts, as well, so everything was good. 

Q.   Hope the good form keeps running? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, definitely.   Obviously confidence is high after winning Portugal.   I come in here, although I did do a bit too much celebrating, but I come in here with a lot of confidence and you know, it's good to get yesterday's round out of the way. 

Q.   Your thoughts on 64 today? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, bogey‑free 64 is always nice.   To do it in such a big tournament like this, I felt like I needed to shoot a good score and I felt like I needed to shoot low today to be somewhere going into the weekend. 
Missed a couple of opportunities on the way in, but you know, 17, 18, but very, very happy. 

Q.   What was the difference from the first day?
SHANE LOWRY:   To be honest I played lovely yesterday, but just had that triple on the third that knocked me back, kind of shocked me a bit.   I was always kind of fighting back from there and I managed to fight back nicely and dropped a couple of silly shots on the back nine. 
You know, I reckon if I didn't have that triple, I would have shot a decent score yesterday.   So my frame of mind is very good, and there's no reason why I can't go in and shoot a good number on the weekend.

Q.   I take it this is a course that suits you? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it is.   I tend to like these long and wide and big courses.   It takes good drive and good iron play to do well around here. 
So I feel like my driving is very good at the minute and everything else is obviously good, as well.   As I said I'm looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   Still on a high after Vilamoura? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Still on a high after Vilamoura.   It was great to get my first win obviously, and you know, as I said earlier, I had done a bit too much celebrating, but there's so many hard times in golf that you have to celebrate your good times.   It was good to get yesterday's round out of the way and get out there today. 
My friends met me at the airport in Dublin when I got home, and we had a night out, and it was good, the celebrations were good.   They threw a party for me at Carton House golf club which was nice, as well. 
I come out here early this week, got here Monday and done a good bit of practise Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, so it was good to get back into it and thankfully I didn't lose any of the form that I had in Portugal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT