THE IRISH OPEN
June 29, 2012
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Are you satisfied with your day's work? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it was playing quite tough out there this morning, so pretty happy.   Wasn't too happy with my score yesterday so it was nice to go around and shoot a decent score and to be around for the weekend is good. 

Q.   Playing with Matteo and Danny Willett; interesting group, did you enjoy it? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I was the oldest in the group, that felt a little bit different.   The two lads are great but unfortunately didn't have any luck today. 
It's enjoyable, great crowd, great golf course; what more can you ask.

Q.   What do you make of the atmosphere here? 
SHANE LOWRY:   This is just‑‑ it feels like a major championship.   It's huge, looking across the golf course, it's a great atmosphere, great feel, and you know, it's great to play golf in front of crowds.   That's what we play for.   It was good.

Q.   You would have played the North here. 
SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it's a good golf course.   If the weather is not too bad, it's quite scorable.   So you'll see low scores this week, it's a great golf course, probably one of the best in Ireland.   So it's great to have the Irish Open and hopefully it will be back here. 

Q.   I know it's dependent on conditions, but what do you think it will take to be in the mix tomorrow?
SHANE LOWRY:   12‑under is leading now, so scores are going to be close to 20.   It's going to take a big weekend from me or Darren or Rory.   So hopefully one of us will shoot a good score tomorrow. 
It was quite tough out there, especially my last nine holes.   The rain came in and the wind was pumping pretty hard.   Quite pleased with 4‑under to be around for the week.
I knew the cut was going to be 3‑under or something like that.   If the wind just stays the way it is, it might go back to two, but I knew I needed to shoot probably 4‑ or 5‑under just to give myself half a chance going into the weekend and I managed to do that.   Going to need another good one tomorrow. 

Q.   You would have played Royal Portrush many, many times but you've never seen it like this?
SHANE LOWRY:   No, I've never seen it like this.   The crowds are unbelievable.   It's what we play and practise for, to play in front of crowds like this.   It's a great feeling. 

Q.   I know you always have great home support from County Offaly; were there many today?
SHANE LOWRY:   There were quite a few friendly faces out there today, so good to see them travelling this far.   It's nice to know that you're popular.

Q.   What's your ambition for the weekend?   You're just behind the main contenders, where do you want to finish in this weekend, apart from first? 
SHANE LOWRY:   Well, I wouldn't be here if I didn't want to finish first.   Just a decent finish.   I'm playing good golf the last sort of couple of months and this is my first cut to make in five tournaments I think. 
So I've not been getting the results I feel like I deserved.   You never know, if I can shoot a 10‑under on the weekend, should leave me nicely.

Q.   You're looking fit; you must be doing a lot of work, as well, off the course, as well, the last few months?
SHANE LOWRY:   Well, I wouldn't say that.   I haven't been doing too much.   I moved to Kildare, Carton House now, and I've been working a lot on my game when I've been at home so it's great to have the facilities there and the lads at Carton House look after me very well, so it's great to be associated with them.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT