U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2011
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great finish?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, actually didn't play that great. I didn't feel that I was playing that well. And got it around. I kept my momentum up. And I putted really well today. But for one really short putt, everything looked like it was going in or burning the edge. It was good to birdie the last. I'm happy enough.

 Q. What was it like this morning?
 SHANE LOWRY: I was up at 5:00. It was fine, because still a little bit jet lagged, so it was okay. I actually don't feel great, to be honest. I had a few cramps on the way around, but I'm okay now, not too bad.

 Q. You'd have taken a 72?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, definitely I would have taken it going out there. A bit of rain early on kind of softened up the course. I didn't hit it that great off the tee, but I managed to get it around.

 Q. How was the course playing?
 SHANE LOWRY: The rough was wet early on. It played all right. It was actually quite -- there were some chances. If you hit it in the fairway there were chances. But the tee shots are quite tough. And level par is a decent score, so 1-over is not that bad.

 Q. Was it good getting out early?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, the greens are pretty much perfect. I could see the lines on the green perfect today on every putt. Every putt I felt like I was going to hole it. It was great to have that feeling in your mind.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I suppose -- no, I wasn't really that nervous. Just nice and relaxed. Another tournament. Another day.

 Q. What was your approach into the last?
 SHANE LOWRY: 5-iron into about 15 feet on 10. And holed a nice putt for birdie. The back nine was going to play hard. I was just trying to get it down there somewhere and not hit it left. I hit the 7-iron, came out perfect, pitched 15 yards short and ran down to 6 feet, 5 feet and holed it. It's always good to birdie. As I said, that hole would probably play closer to 5th week. 3 on it was great.

 Q. What did you learn from Whistling Straits last year?
 SHANE LOWRY: It's quite different because Whistling Straits there were more birdie chances. Out here, you went out with the mindset of, you know, I know it might sound quite negative, but not to make doubles. You can deal with bogeys out here, but a double is quite hard to take. Anytime I hit it out of position on the tee, on the fairway, I left myself a number, try to leave 10, 15 feet for par and hole it from there. If you're leaving yourself 10, 15 feet for par, it takes double out of play, really.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, that was -- as I said, momentum is a huge part of the golf. The par-putt there kept the day going. All of a sudden out here, especially if you start making bogeys, it's hard to see your way back. So it was good to get that.

 Q. How difficult was it to lookout the window to see such a Irish type morning, the greens were going to be receptive?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I don't know if I was -- I don't know if I was enjoying the rain. But I knew the course -- as I said, it played a little easier if you're on the fairway. If you hit it off the fairway it was tougher with the rough being quite heavy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT