3 IRISH OPEN
July 30, 2010
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 3-under par, 65 is quite a short round, isn't it?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it is. I was very disappointed with myself yesterday, 3-over par in what was easy conditions yesterday. But you know, I went out there this morning and just put the head down and enjoyed myself today. I wasn't thinking it was going to be my last day of playing as defending champion and just went out there and enjoyed it and made a lot of birdies. 

 Q. A bit of pressure yesterday?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I had been feeling a lot of pressure on myself. I've been putting a lot of pressure on myself all week with so many people here and so many people from home, it's hard not to have. I was more like myself on the golf course today. I was a bit chirpy and laughing and joking in between shots and that's the way I normally am. I wasn't like that yesterday and hopefully I can push it on towards the weekend now and post a low number.

 Q. Looks like you're getting in just at the right time, too?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, looks like we are on the good side of the draw, so, yes, I'm in good shape for the weekend and I will probably be in the Top-30 going into the weekend. If I can shoot two scores in the mid 60s again, you never know what can happen on Sunday. 

 Q. Great come back?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, there were all sorts of thoughts going through my head last night but I'm delighted with the score today and this morning was just thinking I wanted to be around for the weekend and now I'm definitely around for the weekend. I'm up around towards the top and I know Ross is nine ahead of me but if I can go out there and post two good numbers Saturday and Sunday, see what happens.

 Q. Felt like you were strolling along 6-under par today?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, felt like level par with the way Ross played. It's a pleasure to watch golf like that. With him making so many birdies and hitting so many good shots, when you are seeing good shots, it helps you hit good shots, as well.

 Q. How angry were you with yourself last night?
 SHANE LOWRY: I was just very disappointed with the way things went yesterday. I felt I put a lot of pressure on myself and I didn't know what to expect. I was very disappointed last night but I came back out this morning and got down to business. 
 I just put a lot of pressure on myself yesterday whereas today I just tried to go out and enjoy myself. You know, that's what I did. I was more like myself on the golf course today, sort of laughing and joking in between shots whereas yesterday there was a lot of stuff going through my head. But thankfully I went out there and done the business today and I'm there for the weekend. 

 Q. How was the crowd? 
 SHANE LOWRY: They were great, a lot of people from home and obviously the Irish crowd, there were 18,000 people yesterday or something. It great to be a part of this tournament.

 Q. You seem to be getting stronger and stronger with every week, you had a very poor round by your standards yesterday?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, you know, I've had a lot of Fridays like this where I've needed to go out and shoot a score to make the cut and I managed to do it almost every time, which is great to be able to go out and do that. 
 So I am proud of myself the way I handled myself today and the character I showed on the golf course. 
 17, hit a really bad tee shot on the left just short and came up just short on my second shot. Obviously I didn't want to go over the green on my second shot so just trying to get it on the front edge. I'm up the tier -- had to land it up the tier. It was into the wind so it wasn't as hard as it looked. I just popped it up there, ran up the hill hoping it was close and went in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT