WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2009
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us about a very good day, a whole sequence of them lately, isn't it. 
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, for the first 11 or 12 holes, very well, I didn't play great but managed to hold my score well and finished with a birdie on 16 and a birdie on 18. 

 Q. What do you make of the place? 
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's a great place. The weather is great, course is unbelievable and it's in super condition. Yeah, everything about it, it's just a great place to be, great feeling about it.

 Q. Any particular highlight in terms of the game?
 SHANE LOWRY: I had a great par on the par 5, 14 -- 13. Maybe 14. 14 I think. Yeah, 14. I had a great par there. I hit it in the water off the tee and laid up with a rescue and hit 9-iron to three feet. Probably kept the momentum going in the round. I know I did bogey the next, but I suppose if I bogeyed the par 5 -- but kept my round going and was happy the way I finished strong.

 Q. Does that tell us something about the state of your game, how good it is; that when asked about a highlight it's a par, as opposed to a birdie or an eagle?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I feel like my game has been going, my last couple of weeks I've thrown in a few good scores. Just trying to put four together and hopefully it happens this week.

 Q. After Baltray, can't imagine you thought HSBC Champions at the end of the year; but having won, looking forward to it?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, obviously when you're playing a World Golf Championships, you're always looking forward to playing -- well, my second one. It's a great one to be here. There's where you want to be, to play in fields like this. 

 Q. I take it it's a good feeling when you're on the range and looking down and seeing those other guys there?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it is, obviously especially walking around seeing my name on the leaderboard, and hopefully I can keep it up there for the weekend.

 Q. So much is new to you, I take it it's exciting, but you do you feel though you belong. 
 SHANE LOWRY: Oh, yeah, I wasn't really thinking going around today, and I was just trying to shoot the best score I possibly could, and thankfully it was 66, could have been a couple better. But that's how golf is, it could always be a couple better.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT