THE EUROPEAN OPEN
May 28, 2009
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Reflect for us on a day that obviously didn't go as you hoped. 
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I went out there, I really didn't have too much expectations. Felt a little bit flat, I suppose, and didn't play great. I'm actually glad to have that round over.

 Q. A lot of media expectation and attention on you. Has that been part of the problem, obviously so many people looking at you over the past few days and looking to see what you shoot this first round. 
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I suppose but I'm not even thinking about it like that to be honest. I'm just thinking about going out and trying to play as well as I can and unfortunately wasn't there today.

 Q. A sense of relief that it's done and dusted? 
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's the first of many hopefully and there will be some good days and bad days and I'll get on with it. It will be okay.

 Q. Did it feel any different being a pro? 
 SHANE LOWRY: No, it's all the same. 

 Q. Obviously having shot what you shot today, you need a really low one tomorrow to make the cut; will you just go out and go for it?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I'm just going to go out there and play as well as I can. If it's good enough, it's good enough. Looking forward to the next couple of weeks trying to get a bit of a run going in a few tournaments.
 I'm not under pressure to make the cut or make some money, but yeah, still have the pressure on myself to try and do as well as I can. 

 Q. Some nerves on the first tee?
 SHANE LOWRY: No, just got a bad start, 4-over through six is not the ideal start. But I don't know, I just didn't feel great out there. I didn't feel myself to be honest. I'll get on with it and be okay. 
 I'm just happy to have it out of the way really and hopefully I can go out and shoot a decent score tomorrow. I was swinging at it a bit hard to be honest. I hit the ball decent toward the end of round, which I was just happy enough with just a couple of 3-putts. 

 Q. Were you half-expecting it might be difficult the first day like this?
 SHANE LOWRY: I knew it was going to be tough like this. It's not an easy course by any means, no. So I knew it was going to be tough. 
 I didn't prepare myself to shoot 78 to be honest. I was trying to shoot as good as I could, and while it's not as good as I could have shot, a few sloppy mistakes. But I'll be okay. 

 Q. Is there a feeling of disappointment?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I'm disappointed enough, but you know, a lot of people have been expecting me to do decent enough there, but you know, I'm just going to have to deal with it, like there's nothing I can do about it now. It's over, except go out and try and shoot a good score. If I make the cut, I make the cut, but if not good preparation for next week. 
 Paul was great to play with. We talked a good way around and he gave me some good advice. 

 Q. A lot of different demands on you?
 SHANE LOWRY: Well, obviously all of this is different, but it's okay. 

 Q. Did you manage to hit a few balls yesterday afternoon?
 SHANE LOWRY: No. I hit a few balls, a few pitches, that was it. Didn't do anything to be honest. Relaxed for a bit. 
 I'm not trying to make excuses but before the practice round on Tuesday, I played 12 holes between that and the 3 Irish Open. Wasn't the best preparation but was just so busy with everything I had to do, but get on with it. 

 Q. Any practice between now and when you tee off tomorrow?
 SHANE LOWRY: No. Just get out of here, go for dinner this evening, relax. 

 Q. You hit a few balls this morning, four putts and straight to the tee? 
 SHANE LOWRY: That's what I do. I'm not going to change it just because I'm on The European Tour now. I'm just going to keep it the same and keep doing what I've been doing.

 Q. You hit a great drive down the first. What happened there then? 
 SHANE LOWRY: I was in between, wasn't a great yardage for me, 117, I tried to hit a hard 52, came out of it, sharp right, poor pitch. That pin, front right, suits me down to the ground. A little cut in there is normally comfortable shot for me.

 Q. With so much amateur golf played on links courses, do you have much experience on playing tournaments on a soft course?
 SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, in amateur golf, you play all around the world, and courses like this, playing every type of course; playing the Portuguese and Spanish Amateur and all of those, it's fine. 

 Q. Saying you were hitting the ball too hard, was that a bit of tension?
 SHANE LOWRY: No, just trying to hit it too far to be honest. I thought I hit my driver well on the back nine to be honest, I hit a few fairways so I was happy enough.

 Q. Did you learn anything today that came to you as you were going around and that you were not aware of before you began? 
 SHANE LOWRY: No, I don't think so. I was just happy to be out there. I enjoyed it out there. Obviously didn't play too well, but didn't really learn anything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT