HONDA CLASSIC
March 18, 2021
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Nice way to open up the week.  When you look at the leaderboard, you might think, wow, 61, incredible score out there, but are you happy with the way you played?
 SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, oh, yeah.  Any time you shoot under par on this course you're pretty happy.  The wind actually got up pretty early today.  When we made it to like 14, the fifth or sixth hole, it started to get up.  It's just so hard, so tricky.  There's a lot of disaster holes.  Whatever Matt Jones is doing, I want to see it because 61 out there is incredible.  That's just incredible.  But I'm very happy with my 67.
 Q. You talked last week about finding something with your putting.  Are you still working on that?  How comfortable are you with it?
 SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I obviously had a nice week at THE PLAYERS last week.  I felt like I put it out there three out of four days.  It's my long game that I don't feel overly comfortable with.  I mean, I missed a few fairways today but I was missing them in the right spots, and luckily this year there's not much rough here, and you can kind of get away with that a little bit.  Yeah, I'm just kind of -- just keep going, keep plugging away.  I feel like I've found something in my putting that I can work on and improve on, so hopefully I can keep getting better and keep shooting some decent scores.
 Q. What difference does it make staying at home to your routine and your approach?
 SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, it's actually strange.  It's lovely, but I'm not really sure it helps a whole lot because it's just -- I suppose it's different.  You're staying at home in your own bed and I've got my family there, but they travel with me a lot anyway.  Like they still have their life going on this week, like I'm heading out to pick my daughter up from school.  You know what I mean?  I'm playing golf this week and I'm working, but I've got my normal weekly routine, as well.  It is nice to be here, though, because this is a home game for me because we've moved down here, so yeah, it's nice.
 Q. So you've still got to be at the school ground?
 SHANE LOWRY:   Yeah, I'm looking forward to seeing her.  We'll play and I'm sure we'll have a good afternoon, so it'll be nice.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT