BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2019
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice to be back in this part of the world, not the way you wanted to finish the round, but could have been a 68?
SHANE LOWRY: I got nothing out of that round to be honest. I hit some nice shots and burned the edge all day, and then go into the last with a lovely drive. I may have stroked the second shot a little bit. I hit a 5-iron to hit it past the flag and just mis-stroked a little bit. I thought it was half-decent.
Yeah, I'm a bit frustrated because I could have shot a better score, but look, I feel like I played lovely out there. There's a lot of positives to be taken away from it.
Q. 72, level par, not destructive, but the game is there to shoot a better one tomorrow and make something happen over the weekend?
SHANE LOWRY: Absolutely. Obviously there's scores out there. That's the way this score plays. If you play nicely, you can shoot a score. I just didn't take my chances on the par 5s. If I do that tomorrow, if I birdie the par 5s tomorrow, I should shoot a decent score.
Q. Massive gallery at 9.00 this morning and got bigger and bigger as the day went on. What was it like playing in front of them as The Open Champion?
SHANE LOWRY: It was pretty cool to be honest. It was nice getting announced on the first tee and stuff. Yeah, I try not to think about it too much because I know I have a job at hand ahead of me but it is nice.
Q. Is it a case of having to reset to some degree? Being happy all the time about what you've done in July is one thing but you have to get on with it?
SHANE LOWRY: Absolutely. That's the thing about golf. Nobody cares who won last week. Everyone just wants to win this week. So it's kind of -- you know, that's the way the golf game is and that's the way the golf industry is. But like obviously like I said yesterday, I sit back in December, I'll be pretty happy with my year no matter what happens the next few months, but that doesn't mean I don't want to go out and play well every day I go out.
I'm going to have frustrating days like today and I'm going to have good days along the way. Hopefully I can do go out tomorrow and shoot a decent one and put myself into position going into the weekend.
Q. Because Wentworth has been so good to you in the past, you know there is a score out there?
SHANE LOWRY: Absolutely. You can shoot 6-, 7-, 8-under out there but you do need to play really well, and that's the frustrating thing about today. I felt as if I played well enough to shoot the score. Like I didn't put myself in any bad positions. Hopefully I can go out and do the same tomorrow and a few putts will drop and it will be a better day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT