ITALIAN OPEN
October 9, 2019
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The week after the Alfred Dunhill, what did you do during that week, and how did you prepare for this week in Italy?  
SHANE LOWRY: Well, last week was a bit different for me. Wendy was away, so I was on daddy day care for a week. Yeah, I was looking after Iris for a week. And I had a couple things on late in the week that I had to do, and did a little bit of practise but didn't get that much done.   
Yeah, I'm out here this week now, and thankfully I played yesterday and I felt okay. Play the Pro-Am today now, and see how it is and hopefully I can get out there this week and shoot some good scores and give myself a chance at the weekend.   
 Q.  How is your game feeling at the moment?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it feels okay. I felt good at Wentworth and good at the Dunhill. I was 1-over after the first round of the Dunhill and I shot 18-under for the next three rounds, which I was very happy about.   
You know, like I said, I felt like I played all right yesterday, and yeah, I feel good. I feel confident, and I'm looking forward to this week and the rest of the year.   
 Q.  You were overtaken in The Race to Dubai by Jon Rahm. Is that something you keep an eye on?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, look, ultimately, it's probably going to come down to the last couple of events. I'm just going to keep doing what I've been doing all year. Do I keep an eye on it? I had -- I actually watched a little bit of the golf on Sunday. But before that, I didn't watch any of it because I just didn't have time the rest of the week.   
Yeah, it's exciting. It's very exciting that I'm there and I'm looking forward to the challenge of trying to win The Race to Dubai.   
 Q.  Is that your biggest goal for the rest of the year now?  
SHANE LOWRY: It would be, yeah. There's obviously -- I want to keep trying to pick up some Ryder Cup points and keep challenging myself every day to shoot the best scores I can, and just kind of keep playing my golf, keep doing what I've been doing all year, and yeah, win The Race to Dubai, that would kind of top off what has already been an incredible year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT