DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN
July 7, 2019
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHANE LOWRY: I knew if I could shoot maybe 5-, 6-, 7-under, that I could have a good week.  I got off to an average start and to find that I think is a great positive takeaway from the week.  I've really enjoyed my week here in Lahinch and felt like I could come here and compete.  Disappointed I didn't but I didn't feel 100 per cent for the whole week.  Came here and playing okay, a couple under par rounds, was okay.
Q. The plan for this week was not preparation for Portrush specifically, but as it turns out, it is.  So as preparation, how are you set?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I'm okay.  Look, I'm going to take a few days off, maybe Monday, Tuesday, get back into it Wednesday.  I'll be ready to go next week.  Like I played some golf, maybe out in Portmarnock to get some links golf in.  It is a type of golf that you really need to be used to and it's a type of wind, you know, you're hitting a lot of different shots out there and some holes played very long.  So it's nice -- it will be nice to keep that for the next week ticking on.
Q. Rory was playing Portrush yesterday and said it was tougher than he remembered.  What are your own feelings going into it?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I think it's going to be -- I played there last Thursday.  It's going to be a tough Open.  It all depends on the weather, like here, this week, you don't get wind for a day, everybody shoots the lights out.  That's the way links golf is.
It's going to be a tough Open.  I'm going to try to go up there, fly as much under the radar as I can and just go about my business and hopefully I can get out there and do what I've been doing for most of the year and try to shoot some decent scores.
Q. You have your links boots on, the feels about the grass.  Pádraig, as competent a links player as he is for 30 years, he was talking about the difference from getting used to the grasses you play in America and Europe; links grass is a totally different feel?
SHANE LOWRY: I find when you're so used to playing in the States and greens are running 12, 13 every week, and perfectly smooth -- I'm not saying Lahinch wasn't, they are lovely greens, but you can't get them quick in case it gets windy.  To keep that ticking over and just get feeling, like a good feeling for all that type of stuff, pitching off the grass and how the ball reacts, so when it pitches on the greens, it's a whole lot different than when you're used to, you know, for 99 per cent of the rest of the year is all parkland golf.
This week and Portrush, takes a bit of getting used to.  I'm obviously in a bit of links mode now and I won't do anything else other than links golf for the next week and I'll be ready to go come two weeks' time.
Q. Not making bold predictions, but finding a key to your putting, does that mean all the elements are in place, the mechanics of your game?  Clearly your head is in a good place, as well, judging by the way you've approached things this year?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, there's no doubt I'm in a great place at the minute.  There's nothing more I can say, really.  I don't think I've ever been in a better place than I am now, so it's exciting.  It's exciting times for me and I'm looking forward to the next few weeks.
It's been a great event.  Obviously I've really enjoyed my time on the golf course the first couple of rounds.  The crowds were unbelievable.  I was out a bit too early for them to dust themselves off from the night before to get out and follow me but I still had a good following out there at the weekend and it's just been a great event.  I think this has probably been the best Irish Open I've played I think, as regards sort of the atmosphere, the crowds.  I think the whole setup, the job they have done here at Lahinch is unbelievable.
Q. Should we have a set rota for The Irish Open?
SHANE LOWRY: Not a bad idea.  I wouldn't be against the idea of going back here next year.  Obviously it's not my call.  I think when you have -- I think when a tournament can build on itself, like I'm sure there's things they have done here this week that they would like to correct and maybe do it better next year, and then a tournament transforms and it becomes even bigger and better.  I think maybe golf courses -- look, it's all up to the members.  It's all up to them, if they would like to have it back here, I'm sure -- I've heard some great things from other players about this week.  So I'm sure the players would be happy with that.
Q. Does Royal Portrush suit your eye?
SHANE LOWRY: I mean, I don't know to be honest.  Played there a couple weeks ago.  It's going to be difficult.  Who knows what the weather is going to be like in two weeks on the north coast of Ireland.  It's in the lap of the gods.  We'll just have to wait and see.  I feel great.  I feel like I'm coming in in some good form.  Hopefully I can go up there and perform.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT