DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN
July 6, 2019
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you describe that, a steady round of golf without anything really happening?
SHANE LOWRY: It was probably the worst score I could have shot.  Felt like I played all right.  Missed a few great chances.  My putter was cold today.  But look, it was just one of those days.  I went there and gave my best and unfortunately it wasn't good enough.  Like I said, I feel like I played decent golf.  I just didn't hole the putts when I needed.
The 12th hole was a killer because I just birdied, a great putt on 11.  The only putt I holed all day, to get to 1-under for the day.  You're thinking 12, 13 and 18, a few other chances.  I was thinking if I can, maybe 2- or 3-under from there, I can get to 5 or 6 and have a chance of a great week.
Yeah, look, it is what it is.  I'm not too disappointed.  I played all right, so there's nothing I can do about that.
Q. What happened on 12?
SHANE LOWRY: To be honest, I can't remember the last time I hit a tee shot that far left.  I think there's a bit of rain, got between the clubface and the ball and just squeezed off left.  Yeah, just down in the long rough and actually had an all right lie and thought I could get it out and only hit it about five yards.  Then did well to get the next one out.
Yeah, it was a tough break because you give your tee shot away; it's a great birdie chance.  Look, it is what it is.
Q. That probably frustrated you on the way home.
SHANE LOWRY: It did, but I played all right.  I birdied 13 and gave myself a few chances on the way in.  Hit a bad tee shot on 14 and 15, but other than that, I played the last few holes lovely.  Gave myself a chance on 16.  Hit a great putt.  Left it in the jaws on 17 short and then hit two good shots to the last and poor first putt but holed the second one.
Yeah, look, I'm a bit disappointed I'm not going to have a chance to win the tournament tomorrow, because I really felt I could come down here and do so.  But look, I'm not going to beat myself up over it.  It's just another week in the life of a golfer.  That's it.  You just come out and try to play as well as you can, and if it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen.
Q. You'll be out reasonably early tomorrow, so you could strike the blows tomorrow, couldn't you?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, look, today was a great day to shoot -- look what Robin Dawson is doing, to do something like that, but I just didn't do it.  Just didn't hole the putts.
Q. Funny old day.  It was going nicely.  Got kicked in the teeth on the 12th, but at least you birdied the 18th.  What's your own reflections?
SHANE LOWRY: My own view on it is I feel like it's probably the worst score I could have shot.  You know, I gave myself some great chances, especially around the turn.  Just didn't convert them when I had them.  That's golf.  That's the way it is.  I felt like I hit decent putts at times and they just kind of burned the edge.  You know, I feel like I'm probably over-reading the greens a little bit too much.  They are a little bit slower and wetter than what I'm used to and I feel like I'm not really reading them that well.  I'm missing a lot of putts on the high side.
Yeah, just one of those days where I didn't get over it where I felt like I should have.  But it is what it is.  There's nothing I can do about it.  I gave it my best.  That's all I can do.
Q. You got to 1-under par after 11, which is a really good score on this golf course because there are chances coming in and then the 12th kicked you in the teeth?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, 12, 13, 18, you're thinking, if I can shoot 2-, 3-under from here; you never know, you catch fire and you can shoot a few more.
But yeah, I don't know what happened to be honest because I haven't hit a tee shot that far left in a while.  I felt like maybe some water got between the clubface and the ball or something.  It was raining a little bit at the time.  It was just one of those holes, there's only a few holes out here where you get really penalized for a bad tee shot like that and that was one of the holes.
Look, I made a bad 7 in the end.  I actually had a half-decent lie.  I could see the back of the ball and thought I could get it 60 or 70 yards down the fairway but it went about five yards and I did well to get the next one out.  Obviously made double from there.  But yeah, it is what it is.
Q. First Irish Open you've had since you won where you are the big sort of Irish hope, but that brings a little pressure.  Is that maybe something you will get used to, because in years ahead, you're well capable of winning this as a pro; you know that.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, absolutely.  I don't feel uncomfortable out there this week.  I don't feel the added pressure on me.  I feel like there's a want from anyone and there's a want from me to do well and I really want to go out there.  Look, I want to go out there no more than anyone else and shoot 5-under today or 6-under today and give myself a chance going into tomorrow.
Yeah, look, I gave it my best.  There's nothing I can do.  I didn't hole the putts today.  First bad putting round I've probably had in a long time.  That's golf.  That's kind of the life as a pro golfer.  That's what it it's like.  You have your good days and your bad days, and unfortunately today had an average day on the greens and that's what caused me to shoot level par.
Q. But the game is good and we know there's a big event in a couple of weeks times and that's obviously on your mind?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, now it's kind of try to shoot a good score tomorrow, gain a bit of momentum going into Portrush and I'll have a few days off next week.  I'll maybe get some games out in Portmarnock and some places around Dublin to keep the links golf going and head up to Portrush and see what I can do up there.
Q. You know the way the game, sometimes you score with a good game and sometimes you score with a bad game?
SHANE LOWRY: I played better today than I played on Thursday and I shot 4-under Thursday and I shot level par today.  That's golf.  That's what golf is like.  Yeah, what's that it is.  Look, I'm not too disappointed.  I'm finished now.  I'm going to go back and relax.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT