THE 148TH OPEN
July 18, 2019
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just describe what was obviously a very nice day out there.  You gave back some at the end.  You could have got more on a few holes.  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I suppose I was quite anxious going out there this morning.  The wind was up early.  But the first few holes played okay, downwind and I got off to a nice solid start.  And I was off and running and I was enjoying myself.  And I played some good golf.   
Look, I missed a couple of chances coming in.  But I got a great break, and good up and down on 16, great break on 17, and managed to make par.  I'm fairly happy with 4-under.   
 Q.  Just the attitude that you have these days.  And obviously the fact that you finished 8th in the PGA Championship after a bad start.  You've built confidence through this season, is that evident today?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I felt very unconfident on the first tee, I'm not going to lie.  I was very happy it was downwind with only a 3-iron.  I hit a good tee shot and from there on I was off and running, and hit some good shots from there and made some good decisions.  I took my chances when I got them early on.   
I feel like I missed a couple the start of my back nine, I missed a few chances.  But look, I think 4-under is a great score on that course and I'll take it any day.   
 Q.  You made the most of those breaks at the end, 16 and 18 in particular.  The way you flowed through the round, when the bad things happened you were prepared for them, and the good things you were prepared for, you didn't get too excited.  
SHANE LOWRY: I don't feel like practice went unbelievably well this week.  I felt a little bit uncomfortable.  Went to coffee yesterday down at the Bushmills Inn and we found a little quiet room, we had a great chat for about 40 minutes.  I left that room full of confidence and ready to go.  So we just put everything out in the open, everything out on the table, what could happen, what might happen.   
It's 4-under today, go home now and relax and watch a bit of golf in the afternoon and get out there tomorrow and try to make a decent score.   
 Q.  You're right up there.  That must be a nice feeling.  But are you ready for what's ahead on this extraordinary special major?  
SHANE LOWRY: Like I said, I thoroughly enjoyed today.  The crowds are unbelievable and cheered on every tee box, and every green is such a special feeling.  I tried to enjoy that as much as I can while I was doing my work and then getting down to business.   
It's going to be an exciting few days ahead.  I hope I can give them something to cheer about on Sunday afternoon.   
 Q.  Did you notice a difference, for people you might know coming up, driving up for an Open in Portrush?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I didn't get as many tickets.  It's not quite like an Irish Open, because I only got a few tickets for people.   
But I stand on greens and tees and I scan the crowd and see a few familiar faces out there.  It's quite nice.   
Look, it's great to be playing in front of your home crowd.  I had great support out there today and I'm looking forward to the next couple of days.   
 Q.  How did the course compare to 2012?  
SHANE LOWRY: I think it's more difficult.  To be honest, I can't really remember what it was like in 2012.  I think I had a bit of an off week.   
So this golf course is tricky in parts.  If you miss it the wrong side of the holes you can get yourself in a whole lot of trouble.  But if you play all right you can make some birdies, as well.  And thankfully I did that today.   
But I think the golf course is tricky.  With the forecast for the next few days, it's going to be quite tricky, as well.   
 Q.  Speaking on Tuesday, the shots you were seeing.  Were you kind of in a flow today?  
SHANE LOWRY: I was, yeah.  I got a good break on 17.  We're talking about chipping it out, but I just seen the shot and just went for it.  That's the way I was doing things.   
I hit a pretty average second shot, but at least I went for the shot.  I was trying to hit it close and make birdie.  I felt like I could.   
But obviously I feel like my game is where it's at now, if I hit a bad shot I feel like I can get myself out of trouble.  It's a great place to be in, to be honest.  I hope it lasts for another while.   
 Q.  You're good man for those coffee talks after tournaments.  
SHANE LOWRY: We do it most evenings, you know.  We kind of get at least 5 or 10 minutes together, whether it be in the house or standing or we head off.   
To be honest, I really was feeling a bit uneasy about this week yesterday, I'm not going to lie.  It was just a great chat.  Look, obviously it would be great to do well this week and great to contend, but it's not the end of the world if it doesn't happen.   
I just have to make sure I go out and give a hundred percent today and try my best and hit the shots that I see and see where it leaves me at the end of the day.   
 Q.  Some good shots there.  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I hit the ball well.  I hit it in play.  You really need to hit it in play out here.  If you start finding the rough off the tee, you kind of start chasing it a little bit.  On the downwind holes you need to be clever where you hit it, because the ball is going quite a long way downwind.  You don't necessarily need to hit a lot of club off some tees.   
It's a course where I feel confident around here.  Look, I've played all right here in the past.   
 Q.  Why do you think you were uneasy?  
SHANE LOWRY: It's the British Open, it's in Ireland.  I'm playing well, I feel like I should come up and do well.  Why shouldn't I feel uneasy?   
I'm sure there's plenty of golfers standing on the first tee feeling uneasy.  You wouldn't be human if you weren't nervous or uneasy about playing in the biggest tournament in the world.  Yeah.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
SHANE LOWRY: I was probably as nervous as I've been in quite a while on the first tee, almost ever, I'd say.   
Look, nerves are a good thing, aren't they?  It's where you want to be.  I just hope I'm nervous on Sunday afternoon out there.  It's right where you want to be, and you have to tell yourself that when you're there.  Where would you rather be?  Would you rather be here or sitting at home watching on TV?   
 Q.  What does it mean to have this at this course?  
SHANE LOWRY: Well, I think this is one of the best golf courses in Ireland.  For me, it's in the top two in Ireland.  I think it's a great Open venue.   
And look, it's great for the people.  And when you go -- I find when you go and play big tournaments in big cities, they're not as -- the locals don't take to it as much as they do in a place like this.  I can imagine for the last couple of years, it's the only thing anyone is talking about.  It's taken over the whole place, even the towns around here.   
It's great to be here.  It's got the potential to be an unbelievable Open.  Probably one of the best Opens I think.  And I'm just hoping it's going to be special for me.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
SHANE LOWRY: Well, it's nice really to get in the car and not have to go to the airport.  I'm not that sentimental when it comes to stuff like that.  I'm just happy that I knew the golf course and liked the golf course.  It's nice to be able to go to a huge tournament knowing the golf course and not having to get to know it.   
 Q.  Were you aware of Rory McIlroy's start?  
SHANE LOWRY: I did hear about that.  I don't really have much to say about that.  I feel for him, to be honest.  What can you say?   
I don't know what the score is now.  But obviously he's one of the best golfers in the world.  He'll be all right.   
 Q.  Talk about 17.  What was that?  
SHANE LOWRY: 9-iron, 160 yards or something.  To be honest, I was just trying to get down to the front of the green.   
 Q.  Is there any expectations on the Irish players?  
SHANE LOWRY: I feel like for me I can come here a little more under the radar than the other guys.  G-Mac is from here, he grew up here.  Rory is an hour down the road and obviously had some great times here.  And Darren lives here now.  I feel like for me I can kind of be more under the radar than everyone else.  But obviously not now.   
 Q.  It was your best opening round at a major.  Your most enjoyable one?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's my best round by about 8 shots.  That was nice.  It was nice to shoot a good score and hopefully I can go out and keep at it the next few days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT