RBC CANADIAN OPEN
June 6, 2019
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Wicked round of 64, Shane.  Tell us about that one.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, no, it was nice.  I pretty much hit the ball where I wanted to today and holed a few putts, so it was nice.  Had a couple weeks off and I didn't really do that much.  Probably the least I've done on any of my time off this week -- or this year.
Didn't really know what to expect this week.  Yeah, very happy.
Q. Tell us about playing conditions out there.  They look ideal.  Are they that way?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, this morning it was quite cold and the ball wasn't going very far, and to judge distance was always a bit difficult.
As the afternoon went on and the sun came out, very pleasant out there.  Supposed to be like this the rest of the week, which is good.
Q. Your last two starts a third and an eighth.  Something clicked in the game?
SHANE LOWRY: I think mentally more than anything physically.  I think I've enjoyed my golf a little bit more over the last little while.  Obviously easier to enjoy it when you're finishing third and eighth.
Yeah, I think hopefully I can keep it going.
Q. We had a little chat whilst you were playing the pro-am yesterday.  Suddenly a storm came in.  You didn't have an umbrella, any waterproofing.  What happened?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, obviously I thought it was going to rain at 1:00 and I thought we were going to be finished.  I went and there was a couple sitting in the crowd and they had an umbrella each, so I gave the lady $100 of hers.
It actually wasn't even a great one.  It started to leak after a while.  But, yeah, I got very wet yesterday and I didn't actually get to see the whole course, but still it was okay.
Q. Fantastic round of golf there.  One blemish on the card.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I played good today.  I felt like hitting it pretty much where I wanted to.  The bogey I did make I was just a little bit unfortunate.  I was in a huge divot in if the fairway and actually hit a nice shot and spun off the green.  You get breaks like that and for the rest of the day was fairly stress-free and I managed to roll a few putts in, which is always nice.
Q. Did the moisture from not only yesterday, but that they've had in the northeast all spring long help you fire at flags?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah.
Q. 17 it just stuck.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, like holes like 13, we played that on Tuesday and you're just saying, Wow, how are we going to stop it short of this flag?  Today you're firing a 6-iron in there and it's stopping within a couple of feet.
Yeah, the rain yesterday has definitely helped us and has helped scoring.  The forecast is good for the rest of the week.  Hopefully it can firm up on the weekend and play a little more difficult as well.
Q. Seems like your playing better in this season.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I've had some nice finishes.  Won back in Europe.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, didn't know what to expect really because I had a couple weeks off and I got here late Monday evening and didn't really obviously with the weather yesterday do much.
Just kind of go out there with little expectation, but just knew that I been playing okay recently.  I was hitting the ball pretty much where I wanted to today, which is always very nice.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, well, greens obviously going to be a little bit nicer, smooth in the morning.  I think on this golf course because the rough is quite penal, it's not that much of an advantage.  If we hit it in the rough it's a bit more difficult than it is in the afternoon.
Yeah, it's always nice.  I like getting out there early on Thursday morning and trying to shoot a score.  I'm out tomorrow afternoon, and hopefully the course will dry out a little bit, play a little shorter and a little bit harder as well.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, that was yesterday.  I was out in the Pro-Am and I had no umbrella.  (Indiscernible - wind.)  I went and I asked the lady would she give me her umbrella.  I gave her $100.  It leaked on me.  (Indiscernible.)
Q. (Indiscernible.)
SHANE LOWRY: Well, we're professional golfers so shouldn't really surprise you.  I holed a couple of long putts.  Holed out pretty well some good putts.  Drove the ball nicely.
(Wind interference.)...fairways, which is always a help.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT