DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN
July 2, 2019
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Ten years on from the famous victory at Baltray.  How does it feel to be back on home soil?  And are you looking forward to the week?   
SHANE LOWRY: I am.  Yeah, it's nice to be home to different places.  I think when the Irish Open was in (indiscernible) Ireland and in a small place like this, to really buy into it (indiscernible), quicker than you expect.   
So I suppose playing on expectations, but, look, I'll have expectations of doing well this week.  I wouldn't be here if I didn't.  Just trying to play them down all hands and just trying to go out there play my own game, and see where it leads me.   
 Q.  [Question about the course.]  
SHANE LOWRY: Like I said, I think it's gone -- the rough is a little bit, it's not as thick as I was expecting.   
But like I think it's playing it -- like the first, if you look at the first sort of, your first real leg up of the day is the eighth hole, the par-3.  If the wind is blowing that's difficult as well.  The first set of holes, they're not tough, because if you play well, you can play them well.  But they're tricky.   
And then you go into the back nine, you've got 10, 14, 15, if we get this weather and all the winds, it could be quite good.  But a little more wind, I think it could play quite tricky.  But the course is in fantastic condition.   
I got down there late last night, drove by the course there yesterday, and I think it looks great.  I was down there a month ago, and it looks like a different golf course, the shape it's in is incredible, yeah.   
 Q.  [Question about the general manager and tips about the course.]  
SHANE LOWRY: No.  Like, what tips can you get?  Hidden from you and find in the middle of the game, that's the way to play golf, just play golf.   
The thing is the fairways are all quite -- there's a lot of rolls in the fairway and stuff.  You make good shots, you go out there and get rewarded.  You make bad shots and get good bounces, that's the way golf is played.  That's the way it should be played.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
SHANE LOWRY: Two great questions.  (Laughter).  No (indiscernible) yesterday.  So we got it all out of the way.  And I'm obviously looking forward to playing with the three lads tomorrow.  And I like (indiscernible), and it's great to be able to hang out with people like that and spend five hours with them.  Hopefully they're all right at golf as well.   
 Q.  [Question about the communities.]  Does it resonate more to you than anyone what it means to the people of Lahinch and the local communities and surroundings, how proud they are and how they feel blessed to have the Irish Open here in Lahinch?  And secondly, do you believe in the sentiment that 2009 and getting on to 2019, in the years ending with the number nine seem to have a lucky preference for Shane Lowry?  
SHANE LOWRY: Like I said, the first question, I will say that, yeah, when something big like this comes on me -- I'm from Clara, we've never had anything big there -- but I can imagine that the people down here have been gearing up for this the whole year and really are looking forward to it.   
And in golf, I don't believe in anything like that.  I think golf is golf.  Always doesn't give you nothing, you have to work for it yourself, go get it yourself.  Yes, it would be a great story.   
 Q.  With Rory not here, Shane, you are sort of the main Irish number one here this week, which is something (indiscernible) Irish Open before.  It's always been Rory's (indiscernible).  But that mantle has been passed on to you.  Would that be a responsibility that you (indiscernible) of?  
SHANE LOWRY: I suppose I don't feel it as a responsibility.  There's plenty of us here.  Paddy, obviously the career Paddy has had, I'm sure he's -- you can pass it on to him if you want to.  And G-Mac and (indiscernible), he'll have his following down here.   
So to be honest, I have thought of it.  Like, I obviously know Rory is not here.  And if I'm to get support around the golf course, it would be bigger and better.  And maybe that might help me as well as them.  But I haven't really thought about it a whole lot.   
It's great.  Look, if I was coming in there in a different position and there was somebody else sitting there in my position, I'd be envious.  And I should really be thankful.  And I'm lucky that I'm here.   
 Q.  How are you going to go about taking on the course?  (Indiscernible) match play (indiscernible).  But have you got a game plan for this place, got some good strategy for getting around using the local knowledge that you have?  
SHANE LOWRY: Was only for 10 holes there today.  I don't know (indiscernible).  I'd like to think I'm a better golfer now than I was then.  And I think looking at the forecast, whether it's going to be windy or not.  I don't believe it is.   
But I don't know.  I think there's a lot of drivers out there -- I think you have to be quite aggressive.  I think you try to make quite a few birdies.  Try to make as many birdies as you can, because I played 10 holes, and there's four of us playing, and there was very few birdies made.  Played a four-man match and tough to make birdies out there.   
I think if you could somehow drop four, five, six birdies in a day, then you go a long way to get yourself towards a winning score, because you're probably going to make bogeys there, I think.  And you are going to get your odd bad bounce, and the greens are (indiscernible) and there are tricky spots.  And it's just going to be tricky.  And I found the greens are not that fine, but to chip onto, they're quite tricky.  And I found that out today.   
So I think -- to be honest, I haven't given that a whole lot of thought.  I'll probably be my usual somewhat aggressive self, hit a few drivers, try to play somewhat aggressive, see where it goes from there.   
 Q.  Have you seen any of the other lads and what kind of reaction are you hearing about the blind hole and the dell?  
SHANE LOWRY: They think they're funky, like, and obviously being from Ireland, you know Lahinch and the dell and the fourth hole.  And they're funky.   
I imagine a variation of a golf course they've never seen before and next thing you're standing there looking at a hill, there's a flyover somewhere, you have to hit it or this is a bit funky hole.  And I'm sure they get used to it.  And hopefully it looks good on TV.   
 Q.  Russell Knox was here before you.  He said he's a fan of the holes.  He think they're funky; they're unique.  He appreciates them.  He says the key is to just accept that you might get -- what's your take on this week?  
SHANE LOWRY: I think I look at it and I accept that you're going to get a few unfortunate breaks.  And that's links golf and that's the way it kind of is and should be.  And that's the beauty of it; it's not straightforward.   
There's probably five or ten ways to play the shots.  And you have to pick the right one and then go about it.  And look, you hit.  You get out there, and I've been doing quite well all season, I think.   
And you just hit your first tee shot and walk after it and hit the next one and keep going and try to shoot good scores.  No matter what I shoot today, I've got to shoot a score tomorrow.  That's kind of the way I've been gone about my business this year.   
 Q.  See a good approach that works --  
SHANE LOWRY: At the end of the day, you can't -- like no matter what score you shoot today, you've still got to go out tomorrow.  It's not -- there's nothing you can do that will change the way you shot.  It's probably the way to go about it.   
 Q.  I suppose 2009 is special for you, winning this as an amateur.  How much would it mean in 2019, would it be even more special or how would it compare to 2009, or will that top 2009 winning the Irish Open?  
SHANE LOWRY: I don't know if it will top 2009.  I don't want to even start thinking about winning the Irish Open again.  I just kind of try not to think about it.   
I can then play the Irish Open every year and do my best.  And hopefully -- I'm currently only 32 now.  Hopefully got 15 or 20 Irish Opens in me.  Hopefully, I'll have a few chances, few chances along the years.  And hopefully one of them is this week.  If I do get a chance, I'll be giving my best to take up all hands and see from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT