PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2019
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess today?  
SHANE LOWRY: I played good.  I mean, I played lovely yesterday, as well.  It's just playing golf on the cut mark is quite difficult sometimes.  I was able to go out and play a bit more freer, a bit freer today and kind of let it go a little bit.  Yeah, I drove it well the last couple of days and I feel like, you know, I missed a couple of chances coming in, as well.  But look, anything under par around here is good   
 Q.  What's the experience been like here?  You've had a good season.  You've had a win behind you, and a very near miss in the Heritage, so you come here with a bit of confidence and you make the cut pretty bravely as it turned out after the first round, 75?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I don't know what happened the first day.  Like I felt good going into it.  I think maybe might be an element of playing the golf course a little bit too much respect.   
You know, because I didn't -- I hit it okay off the tee the first day.  Like I hit nine fairways and I hit two into the bunker, so that's 11 good lies I had.  I only had three balls in the rough and that's okay around here.   
I just didn't score well the first day and the last couple of days have just been nice.  I feel like I've played really solid and I said yesterday evening, when I did finally make the cut, that I want to go out and maybe try to get back to par or under par for the week.  I did a good job of getting closer to that this morning, so I'll go out and try and shoot another 68 or 67 tomorrow and see where that leaves me.   
 Q.  How do you find at the moment your golf game with the good season you've had so far in you come to a major, and while you haven't been competitive in terms of winning it, because it looks like it's going to be one man at the moment, but in general, just to be on this stage again, having missed it for a couple of years?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, look, I feel like this year has been going all right.  Obviously I've missed a few too many cuts, but look, that's the way golf goes.  It's kind of ups and downs, especially that's kind of the way my golf game is.  I think I play well five to ten times a year and then the other weeks, you kind of have to write them off a little bit.  But you hope the good weeks come on the big weeks.   
This is a pretty big week.  They are coming thick and fast this year.  You know, maybe I'm not sure -- I don't think I put too much pressure on myself this week but look, this is just a brutally tough golf course.  I didn't have it 100 percent on Thursday, that's the reason I'm sitting here on 2-over.  I went out with a great mind-set the last couple days, and managed to play the last two rounds in 3-under, which is pretty nice.   
 Q.  What do you look for tomorrow, something in the 60s?  
SHANE LOWRY: It's the same old golf clichés, hit the shot off the first hole, hope you hit the fairway and go from there because you can't get ahead of yourself around here.  Even I'm 2-under with a few to play today, you're still grinding there.  There's no guarantee you're going to shoot under par.   
So you just have to go out and just take it one shot at a time and try and hit some good shots and hole a few putts and see where it leaves.   
 Q.  Consistency.  Is there some way you can build consistency in a game that has its ability to go high, as we well know?  
SHANE LOWRY: I don't know, like I honestly don't know the answer to that question.  I think if I did, I'd be doing it now.  Yeah, just look, I feel like the things I do are the right things for me.  You know, if I did something different, would I get rewarded by having better finishes more often?  I'm not too sure.   
So it's a funny game like that.  If you try and go down the root of changing things, you don't know what's going to happen.  So I'm pretty happy where my game's at and I'm pretty happy with what I do.  So there will be no changes there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT