ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2019
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Amazing final round to watch.  Sum that up?
SHANE LOWRY: I had great chats with my coach, Neil this week about hanging in and staying in there no matter what I do and no matter what I shoot and what shots I hit, just keep going.  It definitely helped me out there today.
People looking from the outside probably thought I was gone, four behind with seven to play but I holed a couple of great putts on 12 and 13 and I knew I was in it then.  I said to Bo walking down 16, I said:  I think three 4s, 16, 17, 18, the last few holes were playing quite difficult and we could have a shout here.
Look, I'm over the moon.  It's been a long time, and yeah, I'm going to enjoy this one.
Q. Four behind with seven to play, suddenly in the next five holes you're back to 11 and now tied at 17.  That up-and-down at 17, where does that rank?
SHANE LOWRY: The green was quick and firm and running away from me.  I just felt I didn't need to do anything stupid because he could have left that in the bunker easily enough and it wasn't a great lie.
So I was just trying to get myself to 15 feet.  I thought Richard had a tricky chip, but managed to make par and I just gave myself a chance.  To be honest I hit a great putt and I thought, six feet out, this is in, and then it started to move left and just got the left edge.  I was obviously very happy that went in.
Q. Wire-to-wire in a Rolex Series Event, massive event, HSBC do a great job putting on a wonderful championship like this.  What does that mean in the sense that you've won World Golf Championships before, but this is a huge championship on The European Tour?
SHANE LOWRY: First of all to be able to play in events like this on The European Tour, it's huge, world-class field on a great golf course for huge money.
It's just great, and yeah, to win wire-to-wire, obviously I've never done it before.  To be in contention for that long, it takes a lot out of you.  I'm going to need a couple of days -- luckily we have an extra day off between now and Dubai.  I'll rest up after tomorrow and get ready for that.
But look, I really want to enjoy this one because you never know when your next one is going to be.  You look at Westy and Danny Willett winning at the end of last year, and I think not that it gives everyone hope because they are world-class players, but in this game, you just need to keep your head down and keep do what you do and if you feel that you're doing the right things, just keep at it.
Q. This part of the world is very special for you and you have connections over here.  What about the Irish support?  How much strength did they give you when you really needed it?
SHANE LOWRY: It was unbelievable.  Every day, every time I come out and play in Dubai, it's great.  I've had a great -- made some great friends over here over the years.  I've been involved with the McGettigan family and they have been very good to me.  I'm very lucky that wherever you go when you're Irish, you get the support and I'm grateful for them.
Q. You're back in the top 40 on the World Rankings, how good a platform is this to build back to where you should be?
SHANE LOWRY: Well, it puts me to where my goal is for the next 18 months and that's to be on the plane to Wisconsin with Paddy, and that's kind of where I want to be, and I think this is a great steppingstone.
Q. You must have gone through every emotion out on the course this afternoon.
SHANE LOWRY: It was an emotional roller coaster today.  I obviously went out with the lead by a few and before I knew it I was four behind.  I was brave out there today.  I grounded out well and I'm over the moon.
Q. First win since 2015 but having that winning mentality, did that help you when things weren't quite going so well?
SHANE LOWRY: It's not easy to win out here.  So you just have to -- when you get yourself in position, you just have to go for them and give yourself as many chances as you can.  I'm so grateful that my hard work has paid off here this week.  I'm over the moon.  To win a tournament like this is great.
Q. Winning wire-to-wire, that fantastic 62 on day one really set the tone for you?
SHANE LOWRY: It did.  I got two of the best leads I've ever had preseason before I came here, but you know, you're coming here and you don't really know how it's going to go.  You just want to play your way into the year and see how it goes.  Obviously I got off to a flyer of a start.  Did well to shoot 2-under the second day and I played decent golf this weekend.  It was difficult out there today.  It was one of those days where you just have to hang in and that's what I did.
Q. Inside the world's top 40 in terms of scheduling is massive for you, as well?
SHANE LOWRY: Hopefully guarantees me in the Match Play and México.  Changes my schedule a little bit.  It's all good problems to have.  I'm so excited with this win.  I can't really tell you how good it feels to be standing here.
Q. And Rolex Series winner?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, gold bib.  Nice to have a star beside my name and to win a Rolex Series Event.  Look, we are very lucky to be able to play Rolex events on The European Tour.  They have done a great job on putting these events together, and I'm just over the moon to have one of them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT