PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2018
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Shane, was the early start worth it?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah.  I played nice.  I didn't think we were going to get called yesterday, and I was going along lovely.  So I was probably a little bit disappointed.  Got a good night's rest.  My day out there this morning, did the business.  It was nice.  Conditions were perfect.  I mean, no real wind this morning and perfect greens.
Q. How many holes did you actually have to complete this morning?
SHANE LOWRY: I had eight.  I was on the 2nd tee.  Would have liked my tee shot back, but hit two nice shots in there and then holed a nice putt on the 3rd, and that got me going and played lovely from there on in.
Q. What time was the alarm set for this morning?
SHANE LOWRY: 4:45, yeah.
Q. Did you turn over or get straight up?
SHANE LOWRY: I had to turn over.  I set about four or five alarms.  I think I got up about five past 5:00.  Got here like quarter till, ten to 6:00.
Q. Having to stop in the middle of the round, obviously overnight, and then come back out and still have to play (inaudible)?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, but it's not like we haven't done it before.  It's kind of, when you come to places like this, you kind of expect it, a couple of delays maybe in the week with the storms.  Yeah, I was ready for it.
To be able to come back out this morning and play nicely was good.  With eight holes left, you can -- a few tricky holes in there.  The 6th hole is a pretty tough par 3, and 4 and 5 are pretty tough as well.  Yeah, to play those holes nice was good.
Q. (No microphone)?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, like the 8th hole, I feel like I should have made birdie there.  I thought the chip shot was a little bit unlucky, lands very soft.  I hit a good putt as well instead on the 8th.  But, yeah, I mean, to birdie the last was lovely out here.  I didn't think I had enough club to really get back to the flag.  I didn't want to bring long into play.  I hit just a perfect 8 iron there, and it was nice to hole the putt.
Q. Before the start, you were saying (inaudible)?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's great.  Look, obviously things haven't been going well for me this year.  The last few weeks have been good.  I have my brother on the bag, and he's doing a great job, really enjoyed it.  And now we're going out on a Saturday afternoon in the mix at the PGA, it's great.  I have my dad here to watch.  Look, it doesn't get much better.
Q. Is he taking all the credit, your brother?
SHANE LOWRY: I'm sure he will be.
Q. You said high single digits under par would be a good score after three rounds, and you're getting there after two rounds.
SHANE LOWRY: Look, I thought, this morning, two birdies was my goal to get to 6.  To get to 7 was lovely, obviously.  I don't know what -- I think they may try to hide the pins the most they can in the afternoon.  We just say, look, come out and hit the tee shot and walk after and see what happens after that.
Q. What's the plan for the rest of the afternoon?
SHANE LOWRY: I'm going back to the hotel to dry myself off, have a shower, and freshen up, so yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT