BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2018
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Shane, 12 points today.  Nice day.  Can we get some comments on your round?
SHANE LOWRY: Played pretty good.  Got off to a good start.  It's very tough in the afternoons in there because the wind swirls.  And I knew coming out this morning, it would be flat, calm and I needed to get off to a good start.  And I did.  Had nine points after nine, which is good.  And I hung on at the end, made nice birdie on 8.  Overall, I'm very happy.  I'm on the leaderboard and looking forward to it again.
Q. Your first start here, are you enjoying this format?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I mean, it's great.  Lovely place.  The golf course is amazing.  And the tournament's great and the format is exciting.  I tend to make quite a few birdies when I play.  So I think hopefully (indiscernible) it suits me a bit.  Hopefully I can go out, make plenty of birdies over the weekend as well.
Q. Have you played in many Stableford tournaments?
SHANE LOWRY: Not this Stableford format.  This is my first time.  Stableford golf back in Ireland, it's a different point system.  With your handicap -- with no handicap you get one for par and whatever.  So, yeah, I was looking forward to coming here, seeing what it was about.
Q. So when you're going around the course and making birdies, are you thinking in terms of points?
SHANE LOWRY: It's interesting, because it's not so much -- obviously you're trying to make as many birdies as you can.  But when you're in our position, you're trying not to make double.  Bogey doesn't kill you.  I was playing the 7th hole and the wind was gusting really hard.  And I was making sure I got my tee shot over the water.  And I was like do everything you can not to make double.  And it's kind of give yourself a chance for par and try and hole that putt.  That's kind of the way you have to play around here.
Q. This tournament just fit in your schedule this year?
SHANE LOWRY: Look, I mean, there's no two ways about it.  Obviously I'd prefer to be in Akron.  But this is a very good second to that.  Barracuda's doing a great job here.  Lovely-run event.  It's quite a relaxing event, which I like.  I've enjoyed my week here so far.
Q. Are you getting used to the altitude?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah.  I've got -- my brother's done a few weeks on the bikes.  He's quite a handy player as well, yeah, we're just kind of working off five to 10 percent early on in the morning and 10 percent in the afternoon and seems to be working so far.
Q. Assess your season for us, just the few events -- not up to your standards?
SHANE LOWRY: Not very good.  I had a promising week the last weekend.  And obviously things are going well this week.  Hopefully I can do the business the next few weeks, keep my card over here.  First and foremost hopefully I can do well over the weekend here.
And you never know, contend come Sunday and on to the PGA next week.  But overall my season has been very average.  Not missing so many putts, been making most putts, missed only a few putts.  And I'm finishing down the field every week weekend.  That doesn't really calculate well on the PGA TOUR.
Q. Anything specific?
SHANE LOWRY: No, I don't know, to be honest.  I really don't know.  That's the way it is.  I feel like I'm playing off here.  I'm just making plenty of birdies, like I'm making over 20 birdies most tournaments.  But after that, yeah, I just don't know.  That's it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT