PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2018
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice way to finish, Shane?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it was a tough day.  A long day, you know.  Woke up at half 4:00 this morning, so delighted to get up early on the last.  I grounded it well.  I didn't have my best.  The greens were so slow.  I couldn't get the pace.  Felt like I had hit my putts quite lovely the first few days.  To be honest, the one on 18, I said, let's just roll this one and see what happens.  It's the first putt I didn't really hit in the afternoon and went in.  So delighted to finish with that.   
If Brooks makes birdie, gets to 12, I'll only be four back tomorrow, which is a nice place to be.   
 Q.  You're only four back, but only five players ahead of you.  (No microphone)?  
SHANE LOWRY: I said to Alan walking into 18, I said make birdie here, and we have a right chance tomorrow.  So that's what it is.  I feel like I'm where I want to be.  I said early on in the week, late single digits, and going into tomorrow, we'll be golden, and it is.   
I'm very excited for tomorrow.  It's great to have your brother on the bag, your dad out there watching, and you're going and competing in the final round of a Major.  It doesn't get much better.  So I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  (No microphone).  Some courses you can't go and attack it.  Do you think you'll go for pins maybe more than in the first few rounds?  
SHANE LOWRY: I just have to play my own game and just be patient.  Patience is everything.  Yes, it is a course you make birdies, but I just think this afternoon there's a couple of big numbers as well.  So, yeah, look, I just -- like I didn't feel like I had my A game out there this afternoon, but I did well to kind of shoot the score I did.  And hopefully I go out and play decent tomorrow and see what happens.   
 Q.  You ran 69, 64, 69 on this course.  Based on the course and your game, how satisfied are you?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, look, I'm right where I want to be.  Of course I'm very satisfied.  I'm going to be looking forward to relaxing this evening, and late tee time tomorrow in a Sunday at a Major is where I want to be.  I've been in this position before, so I know what it's about.  Hopefully, I can go out and do a better job this time than I did the last time.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
SHANE LOWRY: I feel like the first two days, the two rounds, I putted very well.  I'm just hitting lovely iron shots.  My distance control is very good, and a couple of slip-ups on the back nine, a couple maybe there a bit tired errors, I think, more than anything else.  But, yeah, I feel like my iron play is pretty good this week, and my distance is always good.  The greens are very soft.  It's easier than what it could be out there, but you still have to hit the shots, and I feel like I'm doing that this week.   
 Q.  Do you need to get more aggressive?  (No microphone)?  
SHANE LOWRY: I don't know.  I'm not going to stand and aim at every flag tomorrow, no, because that would be just stupid.  So like I'm just going to go out, and when I get a number into a green where I have a good flow, then I'll go for it.  And try to make birdies, like today the disappointing part was not birdieing the two par 5s, especially with 17 being so far up, it's the worst drive I hit all week.  It's a drive where, if you hit the fairway, it's a gimme birdie.  So, yeah, the par 5s, you make birdies there tomorrow and sneak a few here and there.   
Look, Majors aren't easy wins.  I know Brooks is used to being up there and he has two, but it's not easy winning them.  There's going to be a few changes on the leaderboard tomorrow, and hopefully I'll have something to say about it.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
SHANE LOWRY: I'm good.  Well, I just played the 18 pretty flawless there.  So I feel like I'm obviously quite tired.  It's been a long day.  I'm looking forward to resting up.  I've got a while before I tee off tomorrow, so yes.   
 Q.  You mentioned being close in a few Majors.  Anything in particular you can draw on?  
SHANE LOWRY: Just be patient, be more patient.  Wait for it to happen.  Especially on this course with how soft the greens are, you can make a run and get three or four in a row, and all of a sudden, you're back in the tournament.  I just need to be very patient tomorrow and wait for it to come to me.   
 Q.  Shane, you did well the last two weeks.  How important were they?  (No microphone)?  
SHANE LOWRY: Look, I came here very confident this week.  I played lovely the last two weeks in Canada and Reno, and, yeah, I've seemed to just kick on.  Obviously, my game is in decent shape, and mentally I'm in a decent place.  Hopefully, I can kick on for the rest of the year, and who knows what will happen?   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
SHANE LOWRY: Trying to get a win.  Like I say, if I can shoot mid-60s tomorrow, like 4 or 5 under tomorrow, that's definitely what I need, but maybe more.  Like Brooks can go out and shoot 5 under, and that's the end of the rest of us.  So, yeah, 4 or 5 under tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT