DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 19, 2017
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Yesterday you said this number was out there, given the course was playing and the way you've been playing all week and of late?  
SHANE LOWRY: :  Yeah, the golf course is there for the taking.  There's not that much wind.  It is switching a little bit but it's not that much.  The greens are as good of greens as you'll see, so yeah, I felt it was out there.  I didn't know I was going to shoot the best score of the season on my last day of the season.  At least it gives me something to smile about going into my Christmas break.   
 Q.  The last few weeks, what particularly do you feel has kind of clicked for you, last couple of months or so?  
SHANE LOWRY: :  I don't know to be honest.  My iron play has been great over the last while.  I've given myself lots of chances.  The last few weeks, managed to hole a few putts and this week in particular, I felt like I drove it quite well.  I felt like my whole game came together this week.   
Disappointing finish yesterday.  That really kind of put me out of the running to win the tournament.  But I'm 18-under.  I'm sure the leader is probably going to get to 20, 20-odd.  I'll wait around for 20 minutes or half an hour and see what they get to and head off.  I'm happy with my results, a few World Ranking points and a few valuable Ryder Cup points, as well.  Looking forward to a nice break in the winter and back out in January.   
 Q.  How much will you use this as inspiration, motivation for a big year hopefully for you next year?  
SHANE LOWRY: :  Yeah, I feel like this is going to be my sixth Top 15 in my last eight starts.  It's been pretty good.  It's been great golf.  I felt like with a put here or there on Sundays, it could have been a lot different.  Even today I felt like I hit a great putt on 16 and 17 and thought I had both of them and they just missed.  But yeah, I was happy to birdie the last.   
 Q.  Given how well you've been playing, was that all that feeling like it was leading into a score like this, a 63 on the final day?  
SHANE LOWRY: :  Yeah, I feel like I've had it.  My Sundays have been poor of late.  I feel like a couple of my friends text me before today and were saying I was due a good Sunday.  There it is.   
Like that's as good as I could play I feel like.  It's not the 60, or there's probably one or two I left out there but that's always the way in golf.  No matter what score you shoot, you do that.  I'm chuffed with that and hopefully I get a top five finish out of it and some valuable World Ranking points and stuff like that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT