TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 4, 2017
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Saturday is known as moving day and that was a terrific moving to from six behind to a tie to the lead.  What do you think the key was?  
SHANE LOWRY: I suppose when I got myself out of position, I made a few nice up-and-downs.  My chipping was nice.  I took my chances when I got them.  Managed to drive it lovely and for the last sort of 12 holes, and yeah, it was nice out there.  I enjoyed it.   
 Q.  You've told me in the past that you prefer par a good score, difficult courses.  You don't like birdie-fests.  You're enjoying this one.  Why?  
SHANE LOWRY: This course, you know, it's quite difficult if you don't hit it straight.  If you don't hit it in the fairways, it can be difficult.  There's a lot of trouble in the pine straw and the rough, and the rough is quite thick out there.   
Yeah, you have to play good to make birdies, but there is chances of slip-ups out there, as well.  Just got to focus.  Every shot is quite difficult and you have to focus on hitting good shots and that's what I've done.   
 Q.  You've won three times before on The European Tour.  What have you learnt from those victories that you can use tomorrow?  
SHANE LOWRY: I don't know to be honest.  It's been a while since I've won.  So I can't remember back that far.   
But I'm sure when I'm out there tomorrow, hopefully something comes flooding back to me and I manage to get the job done.   
 Q.  2015 Bridgestone your last win.  What would it mean to come out on top?  
SHANE LOWRY: It would mean a lot.  I'm going to have a nice evening this morning and get up and do the same thing I've been doing every day, and go out tomorrow and play the best I can.  If it happens, it happens and if it doesn't, that's it.  That's golf.   
 Q.  You've improved with each round.  What's interesting is yesterday you talked about being uncomfortable on the golf course.  Are you becoming more comfortable now?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I hit it quite poorly starting off today, and I managed to make a good par on 1.  I holed a good putt on 2 for birdie, and made a good par on 3, as well.  I got off to a bit of an iffy start, but I played lovely coming in.  I felt like I gave myself a lot of chances.  Yeah, it was nice out there.  I enjoyed it.   
 Q.  You always focus on your own game but given what was happening to Colsaerts, I'm sure you were looking at the leaderboard.  Did that give you inspiration, as well?  
SHANE LOWRY: I knew I was going well.  Obviously I got it to 14-under and walked up on to the 14th green and seeing that I was tied for the lead, so I was pretty chuffed with that.  Managed to -- I only parred in, missed a couple of chances.  But a good par save on 16, as well.   
I'll take the score I shot today and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Was your short game crucial today?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, my short game was good today.  It's something that I feel hasn't been that good throughout the year.  I've spent a lot of time on it recently and yeah, it's been quite good this week.   
 Q.  Looked like your all-around game was in perfect shape out there.  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, as a golfer, it's hard to say it's perfect, but it was good.  I'm happy, 65 on a Saturday to put yourself up there is what you want.   
I'm very excited about tomorrow, and I'm really happy with how today went and how I played and how I handled myself.  Looking forward to getting out there and being in the hunt.  I haven't really been there for awhile, so it will be good.   
 Q.  Looked like you were enjoying yourself on the golf course.  Is that the case?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, lovely group with Thomas and Lee.  We had a great time out there, two lovely lads.  We had a good craic together.  It was nice out there.   
 Q.  You've won tournaments before, obviously as you say, it's been a while, but how much of a winning mentality does that help on a final day when you're in contention?  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, listen, it's been a while since I've won.  So I can't really remember what it was like.  I just have to get out there tomorrow and play my game and do what I do every day.  If it's good enough, it's good enough.  If it's not, so be it and that's the way it is.   
 Q.  We spoke yesterday about a potential runaway leader.  That obviously has not happened.  Should make for a great final day.  
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I actually walked on to 11 tee today and looked at the leaderboard and Nicolas was at 16 and a load of guys on 11, I was thinking, it would be a great tournament if he wasn't here.  But yeah, managed to catch him.  He's obviously dropped a couple of shots and I managed to make a few birdies.   
It's nice to be up there in a tie for the lead, and as I said, I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT