BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2017
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. There's a feeling looking at conditions today that any score under par today is a good score around here.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, par or better today is a very good score.  I mean, I see someone shot 5-under.  It's a very good score.  The wind is extremely difficult to judge out there.  It's quite strong, and you know, this golf course, even in perfect conditions is very tough.
So I'm very happy with 2-under and I feel like I'm going to have a chance going into tomorrow.
Q. You picked up an eagle on 12 and with the changes, it's playing almost like a par 4.  Are those the holes you highlight to pick up shots?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, there's only a couple of holes where you really -- No. 4 and No. 12 and maybe one of the last three holes are good chances.  If you can pick up one of the last three holes and birdie 4 and 12, the rest of the course, you really have to just try and make your pars and take, maybe if you get the odd chance, just take it.
Even the easy holes are playing difficult today.  Downwind is extremely difficult to stop the ball pin-high.  The greens are firm, and they are firming up, as well, as the day goes on.  Like I said, I'm really happy with that and I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Is it nice to have two par 5s to finish?  Obviously you finished 17, parred 18.  You can be aggressive -- or can't you be aggressive?  What's the way here?
SHANE LOWRY: 17 is still a tricky hole.  The trees on the left cut in very quickly if you try to get too greedy with your tee shots.  Had to play it a bit sensible.  I hit it down the right-hand side today and got it down to the front of the green and made birdie, I was lucky enough.
I played 18 as a three-shotter.  I hit 3-iron off the tee and just left myself a lob-wedge for my third shot.  But even where the pin is, it's cut tight to the water.  With that wind, you can't really afford to be going at the flag, even from a hundred yards.
You really need to take your 20-footer and try and hole it, and if you don't, take your par and get out of there.  That's what I did.  I had a nice finish, a nice back nine today and can't wait for tomorrow.
Q. Looking ahead to tomorrow, looks like you won't be too far off the lead going into the final 18?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I think I'm going to be lying in the Top-10 anyway, out in the last few groups, which is always where you want to be, especially in tournaments like this.  I can't wait for tomorrow.  Looking forward to chilling out this evening and getting out there tomorrow and going after it.
Q. You fought your way to a 2-under par 70.  What was the best part of your game today?
SHANE LOWRY: I think mentally I was just very good.  Even I had a bad bogey on 9, missed a short putt.  But I just kept going, kept grinding out and just kept making pars.  Eventually I made a nice eagle on 12 and managed to birdie 17.  Yeah, delighted with my day's work.  Really looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. You perform quite well on difficult golf courses, Oakmont and Firestone come to mind.  How is this golf course by comparison playing in terms of its toughness?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's been very difficult today.  There's definitely going to be a stroke average over par today.  It's really hard to judge the wind out here.  There are really tall trees and the wind swirls in them.  It's pretty much -- it's like Augusta, and the greens are really firm.  It's hard to control your ball and you need to just get out there and grind it out.  That's what I do well on a tough golf course.  I love playing tough golf, and this is one of these weeks that's like that.
Q. You're back in touch with the leaders now.  What do you think you'll need to get it done tomorrow?
SHANE LOWRY: I don't know.  I think there's some rain forecast for tomorrow, so might soften it up.  I don't know what the scoring is going to be like.  But I know I'm going to have a chance and I know I'm going to be off late, and hopefully I can get out and get off to a good start and put myself in the mix with five or six holes to go.
I've been there on this course a couple of times before.  I haven't quite got the job done but hopefully I can get out and get it done tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT