AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 9, 2017
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No Microphone.)
SHANE LOWRY: It was, obviously, a very tough day.  The holes along the water are really difficult.  I grew up playing in this wind, so.
Q. Playing in Ireland, being from that country, how much does that experience help you on a day like today?
SHANE LOWRY: I grew up in it, so I just know how to do it.  Like even though we wouldn't play golf on some days like this, yeah, it's just something that I know how to do and when it's like this, I can deal with it pretty good.
Q. The weather is no fun this week, but exciting news, you're expecting your first born in a couple of weeks, what has this time and preparation been like for you?
SHANE LOWRY: It's been nice to get away the last couple weeks with her at home.  It's exciting for us.  The end of February it will be a big change for the two of us.  But we're loving it.
Q. Describe the conditions for us.
SHANE LOWRY: Very tough.  Like for instance on 17 we had 160 and I hit 5-iron.  And I came up short, I thought, but it was pin high.  But it was tough out there.  We were lucky we were off really early.  So it was windy for most of the day, but it is very tough out there now and I'm very happy to be sitting here on 2-under.  I'm going to go in for today and see what I can do tomorrow.
Q. Four birdies in five from the 11th?
SHANE LOWRY: I don't know, I holed a nice one on 11.
And hit a great one into 12 and holed like a 15-footer.
Then 14 I hit it a monster tee shot and I was going to go in with a 4-iron, it was which was actually too much club I should have hit 5, but I managed to get up-and-down.
And then 15, it was straight with a wedge and I had hit it into like 10 feet and holed that.
So they were the holes that were good to me.
And I was very disappointed to bogey the last.  I only had 230 for my second shot, but the wind whipping off the sea, it was so hard not to miss my second shot right.  I just got a bit unfortunate where I hit to pitch from but, yeah, I'm very happy with the score and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Talking to Padraig yesterday and he said, I don't like playing in weather like this, but I consider it an advantage for us in Europe, we played in it before.  Was that your mindset going in?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, like people say, oh, you must love this weather when you're over here, but I don't like it at all, but I know how to do it.  That's just the way it is.  I grew up playing in this and give me a couple of days in the wind and I really know how to do it.  So, yeah, it's just something that I'm accustomed to and I don't particularly enjoy it, but it's a good challenge.  It was particularly enjoyable today because I shot a good score, but some days are tougher than others.
Q. Not surprised to see an Irishman have a good round here in these conditions.  But I just overheard you say you're not really a big fan of these conditions.
SHANE LOWRY: No, I think if I was at home and the weather was like this outside I wouldn't go out and play golf.  So it's just I have to do it today.  But yeah, I just know how to deal with these conditions, it's obviously very tough.  There's, I don't know, a three club wind out there anyway, so it's one of those days where you just have to batten down the hatches and try and make pars and just keep making pars and then take your chances when they come and that's what I did today.
Q. There had to be a few moments out there where you were looking back at a putt, maybe even here on 18, and the rain is pelting you in the face and those are tough conditions.
SHANE LOWRY: 18 was tough because I had a little delicate chip shot and the wind was gusting right behind me and you take the club back and the wind just blows you all over the place.  And I hit that one too hard.  I was disappointed with the bogey there.
But I did hole a number of putts out there.  And the greens are a little bit bumpy as well being so soft, so it's hard, and I was lucky to hole a couple today and, yeah, I'm looking forward to the necessary rest of the week now.
Q. How tough was 8, 9, and 10 exposed out there?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, like 8, it wasn't too bad.
But 9, like I hit driver, 5-wood on 9 and came up like 20 yards short of the green.
And then on 10, I hit driver and I was in the rough, but I hit a 5-iron and I was 20 yards short of the green there as well.  That's what you have to do there is make pars though.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT