BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 13, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHANE LOWRY: It was tricky.  I didn't feel like we played any holes downwind.  I felt like every hole was a crosswind and it was hard to figure out whether it was helping or hurting and it was flipping a lot.  It was quite strong, as well.  No, I'm really happy with that.  I holed a few nice putts from the eighth hole onwards, so yeah, happy with that start.
Q. When the morning guys came through, they were saying that they felt they probably got the best conditions of the day and it was going to be much more difficult for you guys going out but there's been some low scores this afternoon, including your 3-under par.  You must be pretty impressed and happy with that?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I am.  I wouldn't call it low, though.  If you look, I don't think many have managed to challenge the leaders this afternoon.  Like I said, it was very tricky.  I'm very happy with that.  I'd have taken my hat off if you'd have given me that.
Looking forward to getting out ton some nice greens this morning and hopefully the wind is not as strong and try to shoot a nice score and put myself there at the last.
Q. And cracking birdie at the last.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, tied G-Mac, as well. I knew I had that one to retire.  It was nice to birdie the last.  I hit a great drive and just stayed straight and went into the bunker and hit a lovely pitch from 80 yards and made it from 12 feet.  Always nice to birdie the last and especially holing a putt like that.
Q. You spoke yesterday about your disappointment not qualifying for The Ryder Cup, you said you took some time away from golf, but you're smiling again, great to see.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, had a great time today.  Good time with the lads.  It's great playing with your friends, playing with Graeme, and had my coach on the bag for just one week.  We've done it in the past three or four times and we just decided this week was a good week to do it.  I really enjoyed myself out there and looking forward to the next three days.
Dermot is a great caddie obviously and he's been with me for seven years.  Listen, he's done it for me before and we just said we wanted to do it this year and looked at my schedule, and this is the best week to do it.
Q. Back out early morning tomorrow?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, 8.00 in the morning.  Get some nice dinner tonight and good night's sleep and get out there and try and make a few birdies in the morning.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT