ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHANE LOWRY: I probably should have been better again.  I didn't birdie 16, which is easy, and missed a good chance on the last, but yeah, a bit like yesterday.  I would have taken level par, usually take 4-under, but could have been better.  My first week back after five weeks, it's pretty good.  I've got St. Andrews for two days now, which I feel like I can go out and shoot good scores.
Q. Putts weren't dropping today?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I holed a good one for par on 17.  But I holed another long one.  I just wasn't really -- didn't birdie the holes I should have, really, you know what I mean.  I wasn't hitting it close enough on the holes I should have.  I'm putting quite good and my game feels really good, so I'm just looking forward to the next few tournaments.
After Denmark, I just said, put the clubs away for five weeks.  I was half-thinking of playing Italy or Germany, but then didn't feel like I had a big enough break.  It's been a long year for me traveling to America, so I had a nice five weeks and I'm happy -- I am really happy to be back.  I've got six big tournaments coming up, so it's nice.
Q. What did you do with your time?  Go away at all?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, we actually had our honeymoon, brilliant, Italy for ten days on our honeymoon.  Had a weekend away with the lads, as well.  Just hung out at home and I actually did quite well practicing, as well, which was nice.  The fact that I wanted to do that, as well, was good.
Yeah, I worked a lot on my short game and my putting, so yeah, it's good.
Q. Did you watch The Ryder Cup?
SHANE LOWRY: Oh, yeah.  I watched; didn't miss much of it.  Obviously I think it was always going to be a tough task for us Europeans but you look at the margin of victory, I think that flatters the Americans a little bit.  If you watch Sunday again, the Americans just holed everything, which is a little bit unfortunate for the Europeans.
But like I said, it was always going to be a tough task.  I wish I was there to help them but obviously I wasn't, so try to make sure I'm there for the next one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT