THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Inaudible).
SHANE LOWRY: I gave it a go.  It was tough on the back nine.  I felt like I would have made two in the rain.  I thought the cut was going to be 3, and now it's going to be 4.  So it was really windy and raining when I had that par putt on 13, and it was just so hard.  It was a short par putt.  I missed that and I felt I was really behind the black ball.
16 is one hole you think I have a chance.  When we were standing on that tee it was horrendous, like the worst weather you could get.  So, yeah, I mean, I don't feel I had done well because I played so badly yesterday, but I'm sure a lot of other guys on our side of the draw feel very hard done by.  It's got to be a big split in the draw.  The leaderboard never even moved in the afternoon.  When we came out it was barely 1-over the course, and now it's looking like 4-over.
Q. (Inaudible).
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it might be.  It might be.  I don't know.  Sometimes you get a bad draw, that's the way it is.  But if you look at the conditions they played in yesterday and this morning and the stuff we played in yesterday morning, it was a nice day yesterday.  Don't get me wrong, but it was still windy when we played.  I was sitting back watching Phil almost shooting 62.  Most of us watched yesterday afternoon.
Q. (Inaudible).
SHANE LOWRY: That was about the most constructive thing I did yesterday.
Q. Going out today and facing that weather must have felt like a forlorn task?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I birdied the first two and I got off to a good start and hit some really good shots early on.  I felt, yeah.  I hit a good one on the third, I just missed right a bit.  If I had birdied that, and then didn't birdie 4, which is disappointing.  But from there, it was so tough, every hole.  The 7 was probably the only hole where you could have made a birdie.  Even 8 you're watching them flicking sand wedges in there this morning, and we were trying to snap poke a 9-iron to get a hold of the green.  You know, it's just I feel for the lads that are making the cut on our side that are 5 shots behind.
Q. You have to play golf and you've got to regroup (inaudible).
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, well, hopefully there will be some nice weather over in New Jersey in a couple of weeks.  But, yeah, I played great today.  Hit some balls in there this afternoon.  Just got in my own way around the course.  Just disappointing week.  I was expecting quite a lot coming in here.  It's obviously disappointing to be going home early, but it's not the end of the world.  I'll survive.
Q. What about yesterday?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I was hitting poor shots and mentally I was just not there.  I just lost confidence, which is not -- I don't really lose confidence that quickly.  With the conditions like they were today, I just had to go out and play golf.  I said to Neil before, I'm just going to go play like I'm with the lads at home.
Q. Feet up for the weekend and watch the telly?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, just go home, take it easy for a few days and then get back into it the middle of the next week.
Q. Even though this week ended earlier than you wanted to, facing another one in ten days?
SHANE LOWRY: It's tough.  Part of me would love to have a couple of weeks off, but, yeah, I mean --
Q. (Inaudible).
SHANE LOWRY: Thanks.  That makes me feel great missing that point on the last (laughing).  Thanks very much.
Q. That was a pretty good round considering the conditions.
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, like I said, I played great.  I was like Hulk Hogan yesterday and Ben Hogan today, so.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT