U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHANE LOWRY: It’s definitely up there.  It’s probably the best round of my career.  To come back out this morning and get two birdies is huge.  If you would have given me four pars, I would have stayed in bed.  I just kept on this morning where I left off last night.
I hit a great drive on 15, great second shot and rolled in the putt.  To make two birdies to have this lead going into the final round, there’s no place you’d rather be other than here.  That drive on 15 was a shot to get right.  It is a tough hole.  There’s rough on the right and there’s bunkers down the left and you can get in trouble.  I knew that was a big tee shot, and I stood up and hit the best drive of the week.
Sergio is not short by any means and I knocked it past him.  The hole is nearly 500 yards and I was only going in with a 9 iron, so it was probably the best shot I’ve hit all week.
Q. And the putt for birdie?
SHANE LOWRY: It was important.  It settled me down an awful lot.  The greens are perfect this morning, It was up the hill, a double breaker but it was a straightforward putt.  It was nice to hole it and nice to get off to that start and then birdie 17 as well.
To save par on the last was massive.  We were in between clubs on the fairway and you can’t go over that green, so we erred on the side of caution.  We came up five yards shorter than I would like and left myself a tricky putt.  It was a great putt to hole and you’ve seen I was pretty happy there.  I gave a nice little fist pump and gave myself a bit of momentum going into the final round.
I’ve just got to go out and play my own game.  No matter what happens, I just have to get up and play the next shot.  I’m sure there are going to be little twists in the tale this afternoon, I will be expecting that, and we will just have to see how it goes.  A few shot lead is obviously nice, but I’ll just have to go out and shoot the best score I can and see where that leaves me on the 18th green.  If that’s good enough, I’ll be quite happy.
I feel good.  I’ll go back to the house now, have a second breakfast and chill out.  I think there is a GAA game on TV, so I get to watch a bit of that before the final round.
I’m very excited.  Where in the world would you rather be than here?  I’m looking forward to the final round and looking forward to what could happen.  I let myself think about what could happen today, you know this could be a very special day.  But when it comes back down to it, I’ll just get back down to business.
Q. Do people get your name wrong in America?
SHANE LOWRY: They're beginning to know me a bit over here, so hopefully by this evening they will all know me.  They’ve mixed me up with Andrew Johnson quite a lot this week.  I don’t think his beard is as good as mine.  They've like called me Steve as well over here.  Hopefully by this evening, they’ll know me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT