U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. To be a morning person, he comes out and he plays his holes this morning at 2 under par.  How important was this morning going into the final round?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I mean, obviously yesterday went well for me so I needed this morning to kind of build on it, keep going.  To be honest, I probably would have taken four pars.  But two birdies is really nice.  Hit the ball lovely again this morning and, you know, it's nice.
Q. You've got a four-shot cushion now heading into the final round.  What mentality, what approach, what strategy do you have?
SHANE LOWRY: I think it's just the same as I've been doing all week.  Just trying to hit the ball down the fairway and hit it on the green.  Try and make pars.
Every par you make, kind of put it in your pocket and get on to the next tee.  If you get yourself out of position, you've got to make bogey.  And if you get yourself in a good position, then you've got to take your opportunity and make a birdie.
So that's just the way I've looked at it all week and I just need to do that this afternoon.  You know, I believe I'll be out there this afternoon with D.J., and I'll see what I can do against one of the best players in the world.
Q. A lot of leaderboards out here.  Will you check out those leaderboards?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I will.  Hopefully, I'll be right there.
Q. Final thing, Shane.  How will you manage staying in the moment and not thinking about the prize at the end of the day?
SHANE LOWRY: It's going to be tough.  I mean, let's be honest, I've already visualized myself winning.  Even out walking around the course this morning, when you get a few moments to yourself, you do think about that.
But when it comes down to it, you've just have to get the shot that's in front of you.  So I've let myself do that sometimes.  Sometimes it's not the worst thing.  Sometimes when you try too hard not to think about something, that's the only thing you can think about.  So just let myself think about it.  Then when I need to, I just get back to the job at hand.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT