U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Shane, watching the lead is always tough.  Coming in second in the U.S. Open, do you feel good about the tournament?
SHANE LOWRY: No, not really.  Bitterly disappointed, standing here.  And, you know, it's not easy to get yourself in a position I got myself in today.  It was there for the taking and I didn't take it.
But, you know, you can only learn from your mistakes, I always say it's only a mistake if you don't learn from it.  I'm sure I learned a lot from today and I don't know what it is yet, but when I'm in that position again, and I know I will be, I'll handle it probably a little bit better.
Q. Describe the struggles.  What happened?
SHANE LOWRY: I just kept on hitting, you know, okay shots.  It wasn't even great shots, it wasn't even bad shots.  Kept hitting it 25, 30, 35 feet.  On these greens, it's tricky.  Kept leaving myself a lot of work to do.
It caught up with me on 14.  Really bad streak there, obviously on 15 and 16 as well.  To do that, at that time in this tournament, is -- I mean, the more I think about it, the more upset I get.  So that's the way golf is.  I just hope to get on with that.
Q. Shane, can you walk us through the penalty, when you guys -- with the rules explanation?
SHANE LOWRY: We were told walking on 12.  No, it didn't affect the way I played.  If anything, I credit Dustin for playing the way he played on the way in, having that hanging over him, because I probably would have wanted to know straightaway if it was me.
So yeah, that's what we were told.
Q. You played 22 holes today.  Did it have any effect on the back nine?
SHANE LOWRY: No, not at all.  I played 32 holes yesterday.  So yeah, it's been a long weekend, a long few days.
Q. Tired at all?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I'm tired.  It's the end of a Major.  You're always tired.  I'm sure every player in the field's tired.
Q. Were you looking at the leaderboard a lot?  Were you aware of what was going on?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I was aware of what was going on.  I was just hanging in there.  I was hanging in there well.  I holed a great putt for par on 13 which is massive.
Had a great number on the 14, just a really poor shot.  Yeah, just kind of spiraled out of control from there.  It was one of those where I'd give anything to have that wide shot on 14 back again.
Q. How did today end, going down the back nine in a Major, especially, compared to yesterday, feeling in a zone, did you find it difficult to breathe on the back nine?
SHANE LOWRY: It's not easy.
Q. How does it feel?
SHANE LOWRY: I tried my best to win this thing.  It's difficult to describe the way I felt.  Like sort of my bad holes, they probably got a little bit quick.  Everything happened quickly.  But, you know, that's the way -- that's what happens when you play a few bad holes.  They're kind of over before you know it.  You'd like to have them back again.
Yeah, I mean, listen, I was probably a bit hard on myself right then, coming in as well.  You know, I think if I had have just relaxed a little bit more, I could have done something a bit better.
Q. When are you picking up a club again?
SHANE LOWRY: Tomorrow, unfortunately.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT