U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on a good start to the U.S. Open?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's a good start.  Any time you shoot 68 around this golf course is a good day.  Really happy the way I went out this morning.  I holed some nice putts, some key putts coming in.
I'm probably not going to play any more golf today.  9:05 tee time.  So that's probably just beyond the limit of daylight, I think.  So I'll just go back and rest up and have a nice afternoon and get out there tomorrow and see what I can do tomorrow.
Q. How do you stay focused with all these sort of interspersed breaks yesterday and then the sort of long layoff?
SHANE LOWRY: It is what it is.  I find like, if you start moaning about this type of stuff, you won't come back out, and you won't play golf.  So what's the point of moaning about it?  I find the guys that are moaning about it are guys that are going to be going home early.  You just have to get on with it.  That's Mother Nature.  I think a lot of us were expecting it anyway.  We were hoping to get our first round done yesterday.  We obviously didn't.  But you just have to get on with it.
Q. How much of this is derived from how well you did in the Masters and the U.S. Open last year?  You've been playing really well.  Do you feel more confident than ever in major championships?
SHANE LOWRY: I would say more comfortable as opposed to confident.  Like you come out here -- I mean, the first time you play a golf course like this, it's always more difficult.  The fact that I'm playing over here a lot more, it helps in these tournaments, I feel.
So, yeah, more comfortable in my surroundings.  Even simple things like knowing different players, knowing players in the locker room, it just makes it easier.
Obviously, last year at the U.S. Open has helped me a lot.  I contended there and felt like I played really well coming down the stretch on Sunday.  On a different Sunday, you never know what can happen.  That's the way golf is.  Obviously, my win in Akron was something that I can always look back on, and the way I played the last few holes there was great.
Obviously, this year at the Masters, good first round again.  I've been shooting some good scores this year.  I shot a lot of good scores on Thursday this year.  I just need to put four of them together.  As soon as I put four of them together, I think it will be close enough.
Q. How different is this Oakmont from the one you played in practice rounds this week?
SHANE LOWRY: It's a lot different.  I think we might see some good scores this afternoon from the guys going out.  But I don't think we'll see too many good ones.  If someone hits it well off the tee, you can be aggressive into the greens.  But if you start missing fairways, the rough is -- it's worse than it has been.
Greens are a little slower.  So that means you can be more aggressive with your putts as well.  So, yeah, it is -- there's a score out there, but it's still a golf course where you have to stay patient.  You can't try to force it.  Every par you make, you just have to walk on to the next tee and be happy with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT