BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you assess your play, day one?
SHANE LOWRY: It was good. I played nicely.  A bit of a slip-up in the middle of the round but I really bounced back well.  Birdieing 15 and 18 was big for me, especially that putt on the last, it's going to make lunch taste nice.  Had I shot 70, I would have been a little disappointed because the way I played.  But yeah, I'm pretty happy.
Q. Seemed like you were cruising until you got to 13.  Take me through 13?
SHANE LOWRY: I was cruising.  I hit an okay tee shot right, just right in the rough, but everyone knows you can't hit it left there.  I was in a decent spot.  I was a bit too aggressive with my second shot, hit it in the bunker and didn't get up-and-down.
Then the next hole, just a really sloppy 6-iron.  I felt like it was a little unlucky pitch on the cart path and bounced out-of-bounds, which is a bit unfortunate.  To birdie 15 and 18 was nice.
Q. You're the first guy I've gotten to talk to today.  Describe what the conditions were like this morning and what the guys will see in the afternoon?
SHANE LOWRY: They were nice this morning.  There was literally no breeze.  There was a little bit flicking here and there but not much that would affect your ball that much.  Greens were nice and receptive for us this morning, but they are definitely firming up, like 17 and 18 green there, they were definitely a lot firmer than the few before that.
So I expect to see it firming up a little bit the afternoon, which I'm not going to complain about.  Yeah, it's going to play tough for the guys in the afternoon.
Q. What's your assessment of a day like that shooting a 69?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's nice.  It's always nice to shoot a good score in the first round here and get yourself into the tournament.  I like it around here and I went there, played lovely for the first 12 holes and then a bit of a slip-up on 13, 14, but bounced back really nicely and birdied 15 and 18, which was nice.
That putt on the last was really big for me.  It was nice to shoot in the 60s around here again.
Q. So much that was so good and presumably this adds to this love affair with Wentworth.  What is it, three Top-10 finishes?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I do like it around here.  I've said that I love coming here; it's my favourite tournament of the year.  We get looked after really well, and the golf course, I love it.  So yeah, I enjoy being out there.  It was nice crowds this morning, as well, and it's just a really enjoyable week.
Q. You've seen this course in all kind of conditions.  This is almost as benign as it gets.
SHANE LOWRY: Definitely.  You know, the wind, if it gets up around here, swirls and it's quite difficult.  Although it was flicking a little bit today, it was quite light.  It affects a little bit but not too much.
So it was playing quite easy for us this morning.  I was kind of expecting and hoping to go out and shoot something in the 60s anyway and thankfully I did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT