DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 22, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHANE LOWRY: One of those days, I think our group in general, after his start, was pretty flat.  I couldn't get anything going.  I didn't really hit many good shots, but I sort of -- I was missing a few greens but my short game was on fire.  I had some lovely up-and-downs which I'm pretty happy about.  Other than that, obviously would have liked to shoot a few better today.
Q. Good to get a bit of momentum for next week?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, exactly.  I hit a couple of decent -- drove the ball okay.  New driver in the bag.  That was okay this week.  Like I said, my short game was pretty good, and I certainly feel like if I could have held a few putts this week, I could have been there or thereabouts.  That's probably the way it feels to me.
Q. Disruptive tournament doesn't help momentum, does it.
SHANE LOWRY: Well, yeah, wasn't really disruptive for me.  I finished my third round early yesterday, so I was at home and everyone was on and off the golf course.
Today wasn't ideal, rained for like 45 minutes or whatever, but yeah, I found it hard to just get a bit of momentum and get into red figures.  Because once you got into red figures, you felt like if you could make a couple in a row, you could definitely contend.
Q. The date for this tournament, what do you think?
SHANE LOWRY: We need to have it later.  We're better off having The Irish Open in September.
I'm not saying the golf course was -- golf course was amazing this week and all credit to them for that but I do think we need to have it later in the year.  Albeit we might come back in September and it might be awful, but generally the weather is a lot better later on in the year.
Q. That idea of maybe trying to get a date --
SHANE LOWRY: They are trying to get one near the Open.  That would be ideal, July, dates around the Open is perfect.  I'm sure you'd get a few extra players playing, as well.  Hopefully that would be the case.
Q. If Rory wins, it's good for the event, do you think?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I'm sure Colm McLoughlin is in there down on his hands and knees praying that Rory is going to win.  It's massive for the tournament if Rory wins.  I think he will to be honest.  The course is playing right into his hands.  It's soft, and we all know Rory wins on soft golf courses.
Q. Feel you're a smidgen away?
SHANE LOWRY: I'm not far away.  I'm definitely not far away.  I'm looking forward to next week.  I'm looking forward to going over on Tuesday and getting going around Wentworth again.  It was kind of the last two seasons, it's where my season has kind of started.  Looking forward to getting going.
Q. How would you mark your game driving, short game and putting?
SHANE LOWRY: My driving, it was okay this week.  This is a tough driving course.  With a new driver in the bag, it's kind of hard to sometimes commit to shots.  It was good this week.
Q. 7 of 10?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah it would be like a 6 or a 7 out of 10.  I normally feel like I'm a good driver of the ball anyway.  My short game was pretty good this week.
Q. An 8?
SHANE LOWRY: At least.  My putting is definitely -- what do you think?  I'm not happy with it.  I don't feel uncomfortable over the ball.
It's just, I mean, I feel like I hit the hole a lot on Thursday and if a few of those had went in, I'd be off and running and wouldn't even be thinking about it.  But the more you miss, the more you start thinking about it and it just gets very frustrating and that's the way it has been for the last few days.  But onwards and upwards.  Got a another week next week.
I'm giving myself chances.  Like I'm hitting good shots most of the time.  The big thing for me, I'm not hitting any disastrous shots.  My misses are not bigs, so it's okay.
Q. As you say, you're going to Wentworth with happy thoughts.
SHANE LOWRY: Exactly.  Albeit not a high finish this week, but the last two weeks, I've been okay.  I feel like I'm getting there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT