DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 21, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 1-under 71, reasonably happy?
SHANE LOWRY: We got conditions were fairly handy this morning, and I just got myself in a bit of bother on the second, and was kind of behind the black ball from there.
I played okay.  I didn't drive it overly straight.  A couple of holes where you need to drive it good, and then I hit it in the water on my second shot on 16 and then bogeyed 17.  Nice to birdie the last and shoot under par.
Bit of bad weather this afternoon, which I think is on its way -- if I can go out and shoot a decent score, something in the 60s tomorrow and get myself going for Wentworth next week.
Q. How different are the conditions, the bad conditions to these conditions?
SHANE LOWRY: This is obviously what they were playing in the first two days, the other lads.  I didn't feel like I played great and I shot 1-under.  Felt like I played okay the first two days and I was hitting 2-over.  Yeah, there was a few shots difference today.  Felt easy enough out there because the fairways are playing wide because they are soft and the greens are soft.  You're not missing many greens.  Yeah, it was okay.
Q. I can sense there's a bit of frustration within you.  When you went out this morning, you had a figure in mind I'm sure to try to get in contention.  Was that the way it was?
SHANE LOWRY: I thought if I got to 3-under today, 5-under, you're not asking for that much.  The conditions we had were fairly okay.  A couple of tricky pins out there.  So wasn't all that easy.  But yeah, I mean, I definitely should have shot maybe one or two better today.  But that's the way it is.  See what the leaders do this afternoon.
I would have liked to have even if I was within four or five of the lead going into tomorrow, I would have thought I'd have half a chance.  I know there's a 64 or 65 out there for me.  Just need to get out there and give myself a bit of confidence for next week.  Not that far behind.  I can still sneak a Top-10 out of this weekend.  I can still get myself a good week out of this week.  It's not over yet.
Q. Luck has not been on your side this week, a late tee time in the Pro-Am, an early tee time on Thursday and the worst break with the weather on Thursday, and Friday, which was significant.  Was it written in the stars that it wasn't to be this week?
SHANE LOWRY: I think so.  A bit frustrating because I've been playing okay.  Plenty of Irish Opens in the past where I come in in the past and not played great.
I feel like I'm playing okay this week and given myself a lot of chances the last couple of days.  Obviously would have liked to have been a couple of shots better going out today but that's the way it is.  That's the luck of the draw sometimes and I unfortunately got the bad side of the draw this week.  I could get a good side of the draw next week, you never know, that's the way golf works.
For every one bad thing in golf, something good is only around the corner, so I'm just waiting for that to happen.
Q. Something like a 64 tomorrow, rattle the cage and get the score in early?
SHANE LOWRY: I'm going to be out relatively early tomorrow.  I'll get out there and try and shoot a good score.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT