THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about the hole-out?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I mean, played 18 quite aggressively again, hit driver, and it was quite a bit downwind and it got a long way down there and I had I think 180 into the flag, hit a beautiful wedge shot.  It was always close in the air, so it was nice to see it going in.  I would say the 17th, my bogey on 17 kind of got the round going.  It felt a little flat and a little tense, and to roll that in and then eagle 18, it kind of kick-started my round.
Q. What's it like for you to face the prospect of trying to chase down world No. 1 playing as well as he is this weekend?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I actually -- I know where I stand.  I was on the 8th there and had a long putt for par, and I knew I'd like to be in the last group with him tomorrow.  You can really learn from him in those situations.  It will be nice to go out in the last group with him tomorrow and see what I can do.
Q. How was the break?  Did that make it worse for you or better?
SHANE LOWRY: No, I came back out, had like a 12-footer or 15-footer for a birdie and I came back out and rolled it in straight away.  Hit two nice shots into the next and played nice golf coming in.  Hit a great shot into 8 and it just rolled over the back of the green, and I really had no shot from there and holed a 20-footer for par which was nice.  To be honest I was playing 9 as a three-shotter off the tee and I hit my 3-wood so good that I only had 245 front so I had to go for it and left myself in an awful situation, a real tough lie in the right rough downwind, and there was no way I could really hit the green.  It was nice to make par there, as well.  Hopefully I can go out tomorrow and do something good, as well.
Q. How far do you feel like you've come since Wednesday, how frustrated you were?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, a long way.  I thought I'd be booking a plane ticket now how I was feeling on Wednesday.  Yeah, golf is a funny game sometimes.  Sometimes low expectations brings good results and high expectations brings no results.  It's a funny game.
Like I said here yesterday, I had a great chat with my coach, chatted with him this morning again, and just the same thing, just hitting all my targets, and going out there and trying to enjoy my golf as much as I can.  That's what I did today, and it was nice.
Q. Have you turned things around that quickly in the past before, or does it usually take a while to get the swing turned around?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's not my swing.  I think most of what was going on was mentally.  I think 95 percent of what was going on was mental.  I'm managing to hole a few putts, as well, which is nice.  It's been a while since I've holed a few putts.  Seeing my lines really well, and just trying to play golf with a bit of feel, and that's what I used to do when I was a kid.  Just kind of get back to that and play like that.
Q. Are you playing more like you did at Bridgestone?
SHANE LOWRY: I mean, I played good at Bridgestone, holing a few putts.  Playing similar, I suppose, and driving the ball well and playing the course aggressively.  The golf course is probably going to play tough the next couple of days I would say with this wind.  We'll have to see what it's like tomorrow.  But yeah, I'm playing good.  I think my game focuses around if I can hole a few putts, I know I'm going to do okay, so that's what I'm doing this week.
Q. When did it sort of make it mentally easier?  You talked about Wednesday you were maybe booking a flight home and the expectations were low.  This place is such a demanding sort of place on every shot.  Did it in some weird way make it easier from that standpoint?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, you just have to man up and hit the shots out here.  That's exactly what it is.  There is no holes where you can kind of just sit back and relax and just -- sometimes you can get complacent around golf courses that are less difficult than this one, but yeah, this course is very demanding with every shot, so you just have to -- I think the way I'm going about my business this week, picking targets and just hitting it out to a target as opposed to trying to steer one down the fairway or something like that.  So yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT