THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2016
Shane Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No Microphone.)
SHANE LOWRY: I played nicely, I hit a couple little ropey shots, but I had no real confidence coming in here.  My game felt poor last week and felt okay this week at the start of the week, but I kind of had a bit of a melt down middle of the back nine on practice yesterday and I was just, I wasn't looking forward to -- I almost wasn't looking forward to the week.
But, yeah, I got out there and I had a chat with my coach and I picked some good targets out there and hit some good shots and managed to hole a few putts, which is key for me, and something I haven't been doing recently, so it was nice.
Q. Have you had many low rounds like this?
SHANE LOWRY: I had a few.  I haven't had it in a couple of years, it's been a couple of years, but I remember at the start of my career it was -- I was thinking to myself I had a few.  I'm not afraid to go low around the golf course or in a nine hole, nine-hole stretch.  So it was -- I probably definitely say six or eight, maybe 10, something like that, so, yeah.
Q. (No Microphone.)
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I mean I've just been told that's the first time it's ever been done.  So, yeah, I mean there's no, you know, it's probably as good a golf course as we play all year.  It's a proper test of golf.  And to go out and do it on that nine was nice.
Q. When you say you had a middle, a melt down in the middle of the under are.  How does that constitute itself?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I mean, I just, I was losing the head.  I was like almost thinking, what's the point being here, because I felt like I was playing poorly and I was struggling on the greens.
Got a little tip from G-Mac playing with him it seemed to help me and hopefully I can carry that forward and do all right come the weekend.  I was just getting a little over the ball a little too close and he just told me move it an inch away from where it is and see how it feels then.  And for some reason it just felt like it was easier to see my lines.
Q. (No Microphone.)
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it is.  Obviously, next week's a massive week for me.  This week is big as well, but I'd love nothing more than to go back next week and win a tournament.
I mean, you know, I kind of was coming out today thinking, if I can just get four rounds in here it will be a big help for next week.  So, I'm on my way to getting four rounds in anyhow.
So, yeah, hopefully I can go out tomorrow -- the course is probably going to play a lot tougher tomorrow.  Again, by the time I play on my second round, the greens will probably be a lot firmer.
So the greens were very receptive today and obviously the scoring is quite good.  It will probably be a little bit tougher from here on in.
Q. Is 17 a little less scary?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, it's straight down wind.  Straight down out of the right.  So it was 124, which was appear if he could sand wedge for me and last year I remember to that flag it was trying to hit a little 9-iron, which is a lot, you know, much more difficult shot.  So, yeah, you just hit a hard sand wedge and try and hit it past and spin it back.
Q. A lot happening in your life since the Masters.  So was that down time sort of, did you get much practice in?
SHANE LOWRY: Yeah, I had two weeks.  Obviously, I got married the week after the Masters, and I got home after that then.
But I suppose, like before Quail Hollow last week, I played a lot of golf.  I played a lot back home.  I played the K Club a couple of times and played a couple more rounds that week.  So it's definitely not from lack of practice, it's just kind of, I'm very much a confidence player, highs and lows are a bit too much at times.
But, yeah, when I get it going I'm normally quite good.  Sometimes I can get very hard on myself and beat myself up.  So, it's just trying to get somewhere in between.
Q. That awful clash of tournaments you got in July, are you playing Bridgestone also?
SHANE LOWRY: I mean, I actually haven't 100 percent made my wind up yet.  I really want to go and defend my title at Bridgestone.  We'll have to see where I'm sitting on the Race to Dubai or Ryder Cup.  Ryder Cup rankings is kind of big.
But I'm a long way off that team as it is, so I need to play well the next few weeks.  But I really want to go back and defend.  And I'm kind of sort of 75/25 percent now whether I will or not.
Q. (No Microphone.)
SHANE LOWRY: It's not great.  It's not ideal, obviously, but that's the way it is.  That's what's happened.  There's nothing we can do about it.  As players, we have to try and make a decision.  I see a lot of guys are playing the French Open, but I have to kind of look after myself and do what's best for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT