AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 2, 2000
Frank Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Despite the great record of the White Sox this year, a lot of people aren't really aware of how good a team this is.  Are the White Sox ready to make an impression on the rest of the country outside of Chicago?
 
FRANK THOMAS: I hope so.  We've been underdogs all year, we have a total team.  It's a little different from everyone else.  We stick together very well.  We found a way one through nine and one through 25 all year to get it done.  That's going to be very, very important in the playoffs.  It's not a one-man show.  One player can't be shutting down in a baseball game.  We have great pitching.  Hopefully we'll just have enough desire and guts to go out and find a way to win somewhere in that clubhouse.  
 

Q.  Just to follow up, we know it's not a one-man show but you've had a remarkable bounce back from an off-peak year.  Can you give us the reason for that?
 
FRANK THOMAS: Well, you know, I've been here ten years now and of course I had an off year and a half, so a lot of people were counting me out.  Everybody knows who they are.  You know, I was determined to come back and show people the type of player I've been my whole life.  You know, but it was really special to have a team this year that, you know, was so easy to want to come and play for every day.  It was fun this year coming to the clubhouse day in and day out, trying to get something done, finding a way to win.  
 

Q.  You've been through this before, 1993.  What advice did you give your teammates this year around?
 
FRANK THOMAS: Just keep your cool and just stay relaxed as possible.  The toughest thing to deal with is the crowd and the ball game, every pitch.  The intensity level is much different in the playoffs, the world is watching, the guys seem to be a little bit more tight in these situations, so, you know, I tell the guys we are all underdogs, stay loose, we have nothing to lose, everything to gain.  Just continue to believe in each other.  
 

Q.  Could you talk about how much Walt Hriniak helped you at the start of the season?
 
FRANK THOMAS:  It was great to call him back and get back to the basics of hitting.  He got me on the right path in spring training.  I stuck with those keys all year long.  
 

Q.  Talk about the matchup with Seattle and how you see things unfolding in this series. 
 
FRANK THOMAS:  Well, they were in a couple months ago, I see mirror images of the teams except they're built around veterans with the same type of team spirit that we have with young guys.  I think the bullpens are pretty similar, you know, because we have two guys that we can go in and close a situation; they have two.  So, you know, I think it's a toss-up.  A lot of people beg to differ.  But I'm looking forward to a great series between the two teams.  
 

Q.  How are playoff games different if at all? Are they more defensive-oriented, more pitching-oriented?
 
FRANK THOMAS: I think in the past, you know, we all knew the pitching stands out in the playoffs.  The best teams normally have the best pitching and that's who gets to the final.  There's eight now.  So the pitchers really stand up in this type of situation, and the other guy  -- they know the guys' weaknesses.  I think we have to camouflage more as hitters and be prepared for things they prepare to do.  So, you know, hopefully this team can find a way to do something a little different to offset a Freddy Garcia tomorrow night because we know the type of starter he is, he's the No. 1 starter with three very good pitches.  Our work's gonna be cut out for us.  We will be prepared.  
 

Q.  That being said, is it unsettling to have uncertainty with your own pitching?
 
FRANK THOMAS: It's tough but we've dealt with things all year long, not having Cal, JB out there for Game 1 and deal with Mike Sirotka, not knowing if he's 100 percent or not.  It's a little different for us.  But we're gonna stick together and deal with it.  Bottom line is we got some young arms, we can hang on for four innings and that can be very key for the playoffs for us.  
 

Q.  Do you think the change in yourself was the principal reason why the team came together?
 
FRANK THOMAS: I think I had a small part.  Yes, I did make a big change this year, purposely.  It was for the best.  You know, this  -- it was a little difficult, change yourself after ten years, but, you know, I've had a lot of fun this year and I've had my best season because I'm having a lot of fun.  These guys definitely brought the best out of me.  So if it brought the team together, hopefully I can continue to do that for the guys.  
 

Q.  Having seen Alex Rodriguez through his whole career, can you talk about the player he has become and if he's doing anything different at all now than he did when he first came into the league with all that talent?
 
FRANK THOMAS: I don't think so.  He was a top  pick of the draft a few years ago and he hasn't proven anyone wrong.  He has all the tools and skill of an A-plus player and he's definitely the type of player that we have to be concerned about going into a playoff situation.   
 

Q.  Much has been made about the crowds this year, you do know it's going to be a full house the next two days.  What kind of lift will that give you guys?
 
FRANK THOMAS: Well, we've played well when this place is packed - it's been eight or nine times this year, but we were responding well.  It's gonna be different, but this team is ready.  A bunch of young guys ready to prove themselves, and hopefully everyone gives 100 percent, who cares? I tell the guys, who cares what happens, just give 100 percent for the team.  
 

Q.  Look at where you all are now.  Could you have foreseen this in spring training? Is it something you saw maybe a year from now?
 
FRANK THOMAS: Well, to be honest, I saw this happening maybe next year.  These guys came together a lot quicker than everyone thought.  This year, I think spring training, I didn't think we'd win the division, but realistically we were looking at the wildcard.  And things happen in baseball.  Cleveland has so many injuries, they were able to put their team back together down the stretch, but they fell a little short.  So we're just proud and happy that this team was able to accomplish what we did this year, and we're in the playoffs.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT