STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 2019
Gabe Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Washington - 13, Stanford - 23
Q. Gabe, first of all, seemed like a very happy team coming off the field. Talk about what this win meant?
GABE REID: It's huge. Every week is a big game for us, especially this week it felt like we were building momentum. We just worked really hard during practice. It feels really good just to come out and execute and play our game. Felt like we are starting to play to our potential.
Q. One of the points, the team had not put together four quarters -- would you say offense, defense and special teams?
GABE REID: I would say almost. We were firing on all cylinders for the most part but I can speak for the defense, we can play better. There's still plays that need to be made, which is exciting. We played so well, and sky's the limit. I think we're almost there but we're peaking at the right time to continue to build momentum.
Q. One of the keys it seemed today was just getting pressure on Jacob and forcing him to throw out quick, got him off schedule in the pocket. Can you just talk about your play, Toby coming in at the end -- pressure on the last drive?
GABE REID: Yeah, it's huge, with these quarterbacks that have great arms, it's really big to get pressure on them. We worked hard to get in the pass rush. Big shout out to the DBs, as well, playing tight coverage and then giving us time to get back there and get in decent space.
Q. Last week against Oregon State, it was a great three quarters and then the fourth quarter kind of went down and they were able to come back. What was the difference this week? You put together a solid four quarters, and essentially shut down Washington that second half, as well.
GABE REID: I think just finishing drives. I mean, in the Pac 12, every team we play has explosive play makers on the offensive side of the ball, but when they make a big play, our defense to be able to stand up and hold them to three points or get a turnover, negative plays. So just us being able to like finish drives.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT