NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 22, 2014
Lance Stephenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   At any point in Game 2 did you sense Paul was disoriented or see anything that may have suggested he may have a concussion?  
LANCE STEPHENSON:   No, I didn't see that.  
   
 Q.   So when you learned that he had said he was blacked out and had some dizziness, what was your reaction?   
LANCE STEPHENSON:   I was like, wow.   I didn't think he was‑‑ I thought he was fine.   I was surprised.   
   
 Q.   What do you think would be the impact to your team offensively, defensively if Paul George is not going to play in Game 3?  
LANCE STEPHENSON:   It's going to be tough.   He's our scorer, he's our go‑to player, it's going to be tough without him.   Hopefully he'll get right so he can play the next game.  
   
 Q.   Do you think mentally it would have a psychological impact on the confidence of this team?  
LANCE STEPHENSON:   Definitely.   That's our scorer, that's our guy.   Not having him in the game would definitely hurt us.   
   
 Q.   How much would the balanced scoring that you guys have displayed so far in this series help you in that regard, though, if you have would play without him?  
LANCE STEPHENSON:   I think we really have to rely on our defense without Paul.   Just got to make smarter plays, and guys got to step up.   It's definitely going to be tough.  
   
 Q.   What's your mentality going to Miami, having two games down there?  
LANCE STEPHENSON:   I know their crowd is going to try to get into our heads, and we just have to be mentally sharp, be focused and just be prepared to win.  
   
 Q.   Your theme has been to play with poise personally in this series.   Is that going to be a challenge down there in Miami particularly?   They may come after you particularly.   
LANCE STEPHENSON:   Definitely the crowd is going to try to get under my skin.   I know there's a guy that sits right on the courtside, he always tries to get into my head, so I've got to block him out, stay focused and just stay with my team, make something happen.  
   
 Q.   Do you know what that guy says?  
LANCE STEPHENSON:   I can't repeat it.   It's not appropriate.   It's not appropriate.   
   
 Q.   In your minds are you preparing as if Paul will be there?   
LANCE STEPHENSON:   Right now I don't know because if it's a concussion you can't play with that.   I don't know.   Hopefully he's good for the next game because we need him.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT