PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 29, 2009
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. VERDASCO/S. Querrey
  6-4, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Sam.   
  
  Q. Can you explain the ups and downs of that match. Looked like you were out of it, then you were in control of it.   
 SAM QUERREY: Not really. I mean, it did have some ups and downs. That happens sometimes. Couldn't find that consistency level.   
 But I thought I played well. He's got a huge forehand which makes it tough. But I had my chances there. Just didn't get 'em.   
  
  Q. Talk about his return game.   
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, he returned well. It was tough for me to really bomb serves tonight. It was a little cold. I'm not sure what my fastest was. For the most part, I think I was around 120. A lot of times I'm around 130. So it was a little chilly.   
 But, yeah, he did a great job returning. Even if I hit it in at 120, the fact that he was doing a good job of hitting those back deep was pretty impressive.   
  
  Q. Did you feel a little stiff coming out? You looked a little tired.   
 SAM QUERREY: Not really. I felt so good in the warmup. Maybe a little nervous, kind of getting used to the lights out there. Wasn't my fastest start. My other four matches this week I think I went off to a 3-Love lead. This time it kind of flipped on me.  
  
  Q. What was it like playing two matches? What did you do between the two matches?   
 SAM QUERREY: That's the first time I've done that since I played qualifying of a challenger like three or four years ago. Fortunately my match this morning was only about an hour. I wasn't too tired out there. But I just went back to the hotel and rested and sat on the bed, played on the computer, played Golden Tee with my friend, packed my bags and came over.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the seventh game of the second set, 10 deuces, then you broke him, and up three in the tiebreaker. What did you do to regain your confidence?  
 SAM QUERREY: That game was huge. I mean, I was still down a break at the time. I had missed about eight short forehands in that game which I wasn't too happy about. But to get through it, you know, kind of sent him a message that I wasn't out of it yet. A lot of times when you win games like that, you see guys the following game to go on and break.   
 I think it was just the fact that I stuck in there and fought off a couple breakpoints and won that long game. Kind of let him know I was still in it. That kind of carried over to the next game.  
  
  Q. As much as you probably wanted to win tonight, do you feel it might have been a blessing that you won L.A., you won the US Open Series, a lot of attention on you right now, might take the spotlight off for the US Open, you can focus on your tennis?  
 SAM QUERREY: Not really. I would have rather won. If I had to take like losing the final this week and win next week, I can take that.   
 I don't think it makes a huge difference either way. Still confident going into the US Open. A lot of matches under my belt. I would have loved to have won tonight, but can't win them all.  
  
  Q. He's serving 15-40 at 6-5. What was he able to do?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, he hit a big first serve at 15-40. Got the return in. He wrote the forehand on the line. The next point, I had a pretty good stretch return, then he just hit two big forehands. Not a whole lot I could do there. But that's why he's 9 or 10 in the world. He played two good breakpoints there. Not a lot I could do.   
  
  Q. Crowd was rowdy. Do you like that?   
 SAM QUERREY: I liked it. I wish more matches would be like that. I think tennis would be more popular if crowds would be like that. I think you should be able to talk during points, too.  
  
  Q. Do you like the US Open for that reason?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I think so. I think tennis would become more popular if we had that. When players wait till every last person is seated sometimes before you serve, no wonder tennis isn't that popular when you have one guy standing up on the baseline, some players won't serve till that guy is sitting down. Sit up and serve the ball whether people are talking or not.  
  
  Q. Do you feed off the energy of crowds at the US Open then?  
 SAM QUERREY: Definitely. I have the whole summer kind of. It's fun to play in front of.  
  
  Q. Have you noticed that as you shot up with the Samurai Club, is that something you've watched develop?  
 SAM QUERREY: A little bit, yeah. It's kind of fun. The better I'm doing, obviously the more recognition I'm getting and the more fan support. It's kind of cool to see some of the Samurais out here. Some of them are actually cousins of the original Samurais.   
  
  Q. Pretty pleased with the way this week went overall? You played pretty well here, didn't you?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah. Make the finals. Played five matches. It's great preparation for the Open next week. Obviously I wanted to win the tournament. But I was still happy with the week. Can't complain too much about making the finals.   
  
  Q. Did you make it to Taylor Swift last night?  
 SAM QUERREY: I did.  
  
  Q. How was it?  
 SAM QUERREY: It was awesome. Drove down to the Mohegan Sun in the rain. Went to it, drove back, played two today. It was good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT