WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 20, 2009
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. HEWITT/S. Querrey
  6-1, 2-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. First of all, how difficult were the conditions out there today? 
 SAM QUERREY: Pretty tough. You know, swirling wind, so it was tough to tell how hard to hit the ball on either side. Lleyton already hits the ball pretty flat, kind of -- he kind of hits like a knuckle ball anyway, so it way made it tough.

 Q. In terms of serve, how much of an affect did it have?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I mean, it was tough. You know, you throw it up and it's moving around. The wind is the -- you know, I'd rather look right into the sun than play -- or, you know, to serve into the wind. So that made it difficult.
 But, you know, just the one difference was that one break there in the third set.

 Q. The first couple sets there were a number of breaks and you struggled on your serve to start off. 
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah.

 Q. Do you do you just put that down to the wind, because last night you were serving superbly? 
 SAM QUERREY: It was a combination. He was playing really well, too, you know. When I wasn't making those serves in, he was making me play a lot of balls from the second serve and he was moving the ball around the court well. 
 It wasn't just me not making serves, it was a combination of him playing well.

 Q. What confidence in general terms do you take from the whole US Open Series leading into the Open?
 SAM QUERREY: I'm feeling good, you know. I got New Haven next week, so I got one more tournament leading up to it. I'm just feeling better every week.

 Q. You don't feel like you're playing too much? 
 SAM QUERREY: No. I mean, I didn't even play last week. Lost on Monday and went home for a week.

 Q. In terms of any areas of your game that you think you should be doing better come Grand Slam time? 
 SAM QUERREY: I can sharpen everything up. A lot of times I'll go out there and my backhand is -- you know, I'm feeling great, you know, hitting out on it. Other times it's a little off.
 It's different every match. I can tighten up some things. Kind of depends. 

 Q. In this tournament, is there a since of maybe an opportunity lost to do something at a Masters Series event? 
 SAM QUERREY: Not necessarily. No. I mean, he's a great player. You know, hopefully I'll play 150 more Masters Series events. This isn't the only one I played. Can't look at it like I lost my one and only chance to make a quarterfinal.

 Q. Are you looking at coming back to Auckland next year?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, probably. Played the last two years, so...
 I mean, I don't really know yet. 

 Q. What was to the difference for you there when you were down? 
 SAM QUERREY: Just kind of tightened everything up a little bit and made him play one more ball. You know, tried not to let the wind bother me a little bit. You know, played a great second set. Then in the third set it was just that one game that he -- you know, I had a couple errors, but then he had a couple good shots as well.

 Q. Did the wind bug you at all?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, obviously. Bugged him, too. It's tough to play in the wind. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT