BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2009
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/R. Stepanek
  6-4, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You hear the big news about the NCAA tournament?  
 SAM QUERREY: I knew that before I went out there. Utah. I knew. I was watching the bracket show before I went out there.  
  
  Q. Were there any other players watching it with you?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I was watching it with Robert Kendrick and Clay, Clay Sniteman, the trainer.  
  
  Q. Are you going to pencil in Arizona all the way to the Final 4?  
 SAM QUERREY: They're going to go deep. I know they play Utah first round. Clay Sniteman lives in Utah. He's a big Utah fan, so we'll be watching that together.  
  
  Q. Other than winning, what were you most pleased about in the court today, beating Stepanek?  
 SAM QUERREY: My intensity. I thought I was fired up and ready to go. I had a little coffee before I went out there. I've never done that before. I think it helped.   
 I was excited to be out there and, you know, a lot of my buddies drove from Thousand Oaks. It's like three hours, so I can't lose when they drive that far. I would've felt bad.  
  
  Q. So how long are the Samurais going to be here with you?  
 SAM QUERREY: They're driving back home tonight. They're going to school. Some might come back on Tuesday. Just kind of depends. It's tough for them to travel (laughter.)  
  
  Q. On that break point that you secured in that second set, was that the most running you'd ever done to get a point?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I mean, I was back and forth ten times, and it finally got to the dropshot and hit the volley. I was fired up after that.  
 It took me a while to kind of get back, get back down, cool down.  
  
  Q. Yeah, you gotta to serve for the match.   
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I was -- my head was running wild.  
  
  Q. What about some of those antics that he does, like flipping the racquet that one time?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I mean, it was kind of like -- he gave me an early -- and early, like, Come on, in my face. First break point, that let cord dropshot thing.   
 From that point on it was kind of like heated. We were giving each other a staredown. We kind of bumped shoulders in the changeover one of the times. He kind of went at me on one shot. I mean, I was staring him down at every point; he was staring me done.   
 It was kind of -- we were kind of getting into it. If a fight broke out, I'd probably have it covered with the backup I had in the stands. But it was getting a little fiery out there.  
  
  Q. A lot of times you've been so competitive with the top 20 players, and you usually go three sets and today you got through. What's it going to take to start winning these matches against the top 20 guys more consistently?  
 SAM QUERREY: Keep doing what I'm doing. I'm working hard on every practice. I'm doing a lot of running and fitness. I think the more top 20 wins you get, you build confidence and you gain momentum and you know what it takes and what you have to do to beat them.  
  
  Q. Who are you playing next?  
 SAM QUERREY: I think Wawrinka.   
  
  Q. Have you ever played him before?  
 SAM QUERREY: No.   
  
  Q. That's the first time for Stepanek. Were you ready for all the dropshots? Did you get the scouting report on him?  
 SAM QUERREY: I've seen him play. I knew he had a lot of dropshots, but, you know, I'm -- I was feeling fast. I think I got to every dropshot, and I was winning most of the points when I was getting up there.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT