BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2009
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/G. Canãs
  7-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Did you feel when you got into the groundstroke rallies with him that you had the advantage?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yep. I feel like my forehand especially is -- it's a little heavier, a little bigger than his. And if I could start, if I could run around that, I feel -- or I felt like I was going to win most of the points, which I think I did.   
 I'm not really sure, but I felt like the more dominant player out there.  
  
  Q. Do you think you were taking chances when you hit some of those big forehands?  
 SAM QUERREY: Not really. You know, I've primed my game, so it's kind of just, you know, what I do. I didn't really think I was necessarily taking big chances. Sometimes I did -- I think I ran around and tried to hit a second-serve return way around and I hit the net.   
 I missed like three or four backhand returns off second serves before stopping him to do that. Just kind of had to do that.   
  
  Q. Are you really as relaxed out there as you appear?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I'm pretty relaxed. I was a little bugged. My backhand was kind of iffy, especially towards the end of the first set. It was kind of bugging me a little bit. But for the first part, yeah, I felt pretty relaxed.  
  
  Q. Thoughts on facing Stepanek next? He's taken on a couple of Americans this year.   
 SAM QUERREY: He's off to a good start. He won San Jose and finals in Memphis. He beat Roddick and he beat Fish. That's kind of a tough one.  
 He plays that '80s style game where he kind of comes to the net and he's got the continental forehand and the flat backhand.   
 But he's crafty, and that's going to be a tough one. He has a good serve. He sneaks in. He has everything. I've got my hands full there.   
  
  Q. Did you really say Arizona, you thought Arizona would do well in the tournament?  
 SAM QUERREY: My parents both went there, and my sister is going there next year. My family are huge Arizona fans. Every time they're in the bracket I have them going far. I can't not write them going to the Final 4.   
  
  Q. You didn't pick USC?  
 SAM QUERREY: No, not really into USC basketball. I'm gonna go with -- if I had to pick a team right now, I like Pitt right now, Pitt or Oklahoma.  
  
  Q. Were you up late watching Syracuse?  
 SAM QUERREY: I was. I got home from dinner and they were in the second overtime. Got to watch for like another hour.   
  
  Q. How come you didn't consider Arizona then if you have such a legacy there?  
 SAM QUERREY: Mmmm, I mean, their tennis team is maybe top 100. I don't really know.   
 I just thought I'd -- just wasn't an interest of mine. My sister is going there to play volleyball. My parents went there and a lot of cousins and stuff like. But, I don't know, it just wasn't -- just wasn't a place I was really interested in.   
 I love the school. I mean, I'll go back and watch basketball and football games and hang out and stuff. I just didn't want to go there.  
  
  Q. Any thoughts on who they should pick as the next head coach for basketball?  
 SAM QUERREY: No idea. I don't even know who's out there. They'll probably miss out in the tournament this year for the first time in 24 years. Is that what it is?   
  
  Q. Something like that, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT