WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2008
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J.C. FERRERO/S. Querrey   
2-6, 6-4, 6-4, 6-4  
   
  Q. A little disappointing today?  
 SAM QUERREY: A little bit, yeah. I mean, he's a good player, used to be No. 1 in the world and has won a Grand Slam, so it wasn't too bad. I felt like I played all right, especially the first set. And then the other three sets, just one break in each set and I had some break points that I didn't convert. I'm disappointed, but the guy is 20 in the world.  
  
  Q. Disappointed from the aspect that this is probably a good surface for your style of play?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, it's a good surface for me, but out of the three it's my least favorite. But I think over time I think that'll change and I'll kind of learn to play on it a little more.  
  
  Q. Is it the footing?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, the footing and just -- I don't know what it is, I'm just -- you play on it so little, I think the older guys might have a little advantage.  
  
  Q. Well, it might be an advantage for a guy with a serve like yours, but the ball bounces so low and you're so high?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, it's good for the serve, but then again, when you're in groundstrokes the ball bounces low, so there's a advantage and there's a disadvantage.  
  
  Q. Was there something today he did to turn it around at all do you think?   
 SAM QUERREY: Not really one thing in particular, but he's very difficult to ace. I felt like I had a lot of good serves and he would poke them back into play.  
  
  Q. And that's frustrating?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, it can be.   
  
  Q. What are you feeling now? You've been out here coming on a couple years, I guess. Where are you seeing yourself?   
 SAM QUERREY: I mean, definitely by the end of this year I'd like to be ranked in the top 30. I'd be very happy with that. I've just got to keep working hard. I mean, from here on out, it's all hard court, my favorite surface, so hopefully I can put a few nice runs together.   
  
  Q. What's your summer looking like then?  
 SAM QUERREY: I'm playing Indianapolis, Toronto, Cincinnati, playing the Olympics, and then the US Open.   
  
  Q. Did you think he was hurt today at all in the first set? Did you have any feeling he was not moving well?   
 SAM QUERREY: No, not really. I mean, I knew he had been injured, hadn't played since the French Open. But he's had a month to kind of get better, and he made the -- I think he made quarterfinals here last year, so he's got some points of defense. I was expecting him to come out there ready.   
  
  Q. Indy was a big week for you last year; you went pretty far, you had that match where you had all those aces and stuff. Are you getting to the point where, like, oh, I want to go back this place, I have good memories?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, there's definitely tournaments now that I want to go to and some that I don't want to go to. Indy is one of my favorites, so I'll definitely be going back there.  
  
  Q. Are you going to play the doubles?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I'm playing with Robin Haase, who's playing Lleyton Hewitt right now.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT