MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO PRESENTED BY ROLEX
April 24, 2008
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. QUERREY/R. Gasquet
2-6, 6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. When you were serving for it, were you just sort of trying to put out of your mind the fact that you were about to beat the French No. 1 on red clay in Europe?
 SAM QUERREY: A little bit. I didn't think about it like that. I was more thinking about, Just make your first serve and play, 'cause when I was doing that, especially in the second and third set, I felt like I was winning, you know, 90% of the points. That's what I was really focusing on. 

 Q. You beat the French Open champion, the French No. 1 on clay. Have you surprised yourself? 
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah. I mean, when I came here, I was playing Moya on Sunday. I booked a flight home for Monday morning. Then when I won that, moved it to Tuesday morning. Won yesterday. Moved it to this morning. Then won today. Then I've got to move it to Saturday now, so... 
 Yeah, I'm surprising myself. 

 Q. Will you tell other American players to come next year here?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I'll tell them to come. 

 Q. Do you think they will?
 SAM QUERREY: Probably not. I mean, Andy, James and Mardy probably won't. If there's a new group of guys that make the draw, maybe then. 

 Q. You only played the French Open as a junior, what was it, quarters?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah.

 Q. Then last year. Are you looking forward to it after this?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah. I really enjoy playing on clay. I think it suits my game. Hopefully, you know, I can do better this year at the French than I did last year, which will be just to win one match. 

 Q. Is it something special to play at that particular tournament, maybe off-the-court sort of things?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, that's a great tournament. I love Paris. I love the Champs Elysées. I really enjoyed that tournament last year. I'm excited to go back. 

 Q. You were at a tournament. You said there was nothing to see, so you didn't have to do any tourism. 
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, Australian Open. There's stuff to see. But it's not historical stuff like Europe where you feel obligated to go see some things. 

 Q. At the French Open you feel obligated?
 SAM QUERREY: I feel obligated to go see the Louvre, the Arc de Triomphe, the Eiffel Tower. I've crossed it off my list now, so... 

 Q. You don't have to worry about it?
 SAM QUERREY: No, exactly (smiling). 

 Q. In which way do you say clay suits your game? 
 SAM QUERREY: Well, my serve is my weapon. My serve still goes through the court. When I get my first serve in, it's pretty effective here. Then on my groundstrokes, I just have a little more time to set up and take a swing at the ball. 

 Q. Did you sense his frustration? I think there was one game where you saved seven breakpoints. Did you sense he was getting frustrated?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, a little bit. Especially in the second set there, he kind of played a sloppy game at 4-5 to kind of give me that set. You could tell. He kind of threw his racquet down. He was a little frustrated. 
 It kind of continued in that third set. That second game, yeah, I had a bunch of breakpoints. I could kind of tell I was kind of getting to him.

 Q. Did you get the impression he maybe underestimated you? 
 SAM QUERREY: A little bit. Especially, you know, after that first set 'cause he beat me in like 12 minutes (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT