BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2018
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. QUERREY/F. Lopez
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Your comments on tonight's match?  Looked pretty comfortable for you.  How did you feel?
SAM QUERREY: Yeah, it's the best I played so far.  My first-serve percentage was a little low.  But other than that, I did everything really well.  Really aggressive.  I thought I returned pretty well against the guy.  He's got a tough serve.  Happy with that.
Q. Do you mind playing lefties?
SAM QUERREY: No.  I mean, I feel like I have a pretty good backhand, so sometimes that wide serve doesn't bother me too much.
You know, I don't enjoy playing them, but it's not -- I probably don't mind it as much as some guys.
Q. Quarterfinals now here with a tournament as big as this, what could that do to your confidence levels?
SAM QUERREY: I mean, it feels good.  I mean, I'm more happy with how I played today.  That's what gives me confidence rather than making the quarterfinals.
Q. If you had to change anything or adjust anything, what would you be looking at?
SAM QUERREY: With my game?
Q. Yeah, following today's match, looking ahead.
SAM QUERREY: My first serve I think my percentages were probably in the 50s tonight.  So I'm not exactly sure what was off with my rhythm, but, you know, finding whatever kink was kind of in my first serve.  And luckily tomorrow I have a doubles match, so I can kind of work on it with that.
Q. Would that have anything to do with the conditions?  It's been a pretty gusty day today.
SAM QUERREY: Yeah, fortunately for me, when I was playing my match tonight, it wasn't that windy.  I wouldn't have called it windy tonight, but up until 4:00 p.m. it was brutal out there.  So I was fortunate to get to play tonight and it wasn't really an issue.
Q. Next match, what are your thoughts?
SAM QUERREY: You know, both guys are tough.  It's kind of an interesting.  You know, Milos is coming back a bit.  Baghdatis is, you know, seems to be playing pretty well the last few weeks.  Both guys are kind of on little runs, and it should be a tough one tonight or close one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT