U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2007
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  I guess it was not the result you expected after a pretty fun summer. 
 SAM QUERREY:  Definitely.  I could have gone a little farther, but I can learn a lot from that match. 

 Q.  What happened?  You had six set points in the first set. 
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, is that what it was?  A lot of set points in the first set.  I lost those.  Ended up losing it in a tiebreaker.  Lost my serve early in the second set.  Just kind of collapsed.  Kind of got frustrated, didn't know what to do.  I was out of it a little bit. 

 Q.  Is it a question of sort of match management at this point, consistency? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Little bit.  Kind of frustrated at the left-handed lefty.  Just kind of went away from my game.  Kind of stopped playing the way I want to play. 

 Q.  Had you been practicing against left-handers in the run up to the tournament? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Couple days before the tournament I'd be hitting with some, but that was kind of it. 

 Q.  You've played a number of left-handers over your career.  Has it been a pattern where you can't seem to read them, the hooking forehand? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Never beat a lefty on the tour. 

 Q.  On the tour? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Yes. 

 Q.  In juniors, you have? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Juniors.  I've always struggled a little against them.  It's something I need to kind of get over.  Hopefully that will happen. 

 Q.  Is it more mental or really just the ball you don't like? 
 SAM QUERREY:  More mental probably. 

 Q.  How disappointing is it, considering you really turned things around since we saw you in L.A.? 
 SAM QUERREY:  It's disappointing.  But, I mean, you can't go out every tournament and go deep in the tournaments.  You can, but hopefully one day that will happen.  Just move on and go to the next tournament now. 

 Q.  What do you take away from your first full Grand Slam season? 
 SAM QUERREY:  It started well, Australia, third round.  I mean, the year's been a great year.  I'm ranked 48 right now.  My goal at the beginning of the year was to be top 50.  I'm already there.  Hopefully I can just keep going. 
 Four or five more tournaments the rest of the year, so hopefully I can just kind of build on that, keep winning, hopefully get my ranking up there a little bit higher. 

 Q.  You mentioned you felt kind of out of it.  When was the last time you felt like you kind of lost concentration that much? 
 SAM QUERREY:  I mean, Wimbledon this year was kind of like the same.  A little bit of a rerun from that.  I just got to take away from that, learn, hopefully fix it the next time I go out there. 

 Q.  Is it harder coming in this year because there were more expectations around you? 
 SAM QUERREY:  A little bit.  Not a whole lot.  I mean, I definitely feel like I kind of let some people down.  Mainly myself.  But not a whole lot, no. 

 Q.  You were saying it was like a Wimbledon rerun.  You lost the first set in a breaker, then... 
 SAM QUERREY:  Lost my serve early in the second. 

 Q.  Mentally how did you feel in the second and third sets? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Just frustrated.  Don't really know where to hit the ball.  I start hurrying.  I think I started hurrying a little bit.  You know, those are the main things. 

 Q.  It's maybe an experience thing? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Little bit.  You know, every match you lose, you kind of learn from it.  Hopefully next time I go out there, play in a Grand Slam, play a lefty, whoever it is, I cannot do those things. 

 Q.  When you feel yourself hurrying, do you tell yourself to slow down? 
 SAM QUERREY:  I don't even realize it until after when my coach tells me.  It's one of those things I kind of -- I don't know, hopefully I can start realizing it when I'm playing, take my time and slow down a little bit. 

 Q.  Do you think having a coach on court would help you in that circumstance? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, a little bit.  I think so, definitely.  Are they thinking about doing that? 

 Q.  Would you push for it? 
 SAM QUERREY:  I wouldn't push for it.  I'd probably vote yes. 

 Q.  Do you typically watch game film of yourself after your slams? 
 SAM QUERREY:  No.  I mean, occasionally I watch myself play.  If I TiVo a match I'll watch.  Get a DVD.  Not too often. 

 Q.  This one never? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Unless my coach makes me. 

 Q.  Stefan played pretty well. 
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, he's got a good backhand cross-court.  The ball stays really low and it skids.  Good slice serve out wide.  He's a great player.  It was definitely a tough first-round match-up. 

 Q.  Seemed like he was having his way with some of your topspin shots. 
 SAM QUERREY:  Definitely.  He likes that backhand cross-court angle.  I was giving him that ball to hit. 

 Q.  You have the doubles left.  How did you hook up with your partner? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Kind of randomly thought of someone, called him up and asked him.  That's how it is pretty much every week for me. 

 Q.  Is it a way to work on your game? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah.  I mean, a lot of it's just kind of fun, something to do.  I mean, I definitely want to work on my net game, serve and volleying.  It helps in that way. 

 Q.  Other guys around your age, Donald Young, Jesse Levine, did you play against those guys? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, I played Don Young five times.  Jesse Levine three or four times.  Played them a lot.  Know them really well. 

 Q.  Are you surprised to see the results they're having? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Donald's playing well right now.  Won his first round here.  Hopefully he can keep winning.  Jesse, he's playing well.  He had a tough first-round match.  He had to play Davydenko.  Hopefully both those guys can keep winning, get their ranking up there. 

 Q.  When you were trying to decide between USC and professional tennis, what factors weighed most heavily? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Part of it I was playing as an amateur for a little while.  I was having some success doing that.  I was winning a few rounds in challengers.  Qualified an ATP event.  Also the contracts I signed with adidas and Prince. 

 Q.  That was a big factor in your mind? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Yes. 

 Q.  Was there any doubt in your mind you could make an impact on the ATP Tour? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Not really.  I mean, it did help that the first tournament I went out and played, I won.  I mean, definitely before I made the decision, there was the doubt in my mind.  When I lost, I didn't think I was good enough. 
 Since I turned pro, there has never been any regrets or anything like that. 

 Q.  Do you think guys go to college less now in the States? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Yes. 

 Q.  Why? 
 SAM QUERREY:  You know, I can't really answer that.  For me, I mean, when I was talking to people, most people thought it was obvious for me not to go to college, go right to the pros. 
 I was kind of the one thinking about going to college.  I can't really speak for the other guys.  I don't really know what they're thinking.  Some of the other guys out there maybe should have gone to college.  You never know. 

 Q.  Most of the world's top 25 hasn't gone to college.  James Blake is an anomaly. 
 SAM QUERREY:  James is the one guy in the top hundred.  For him, he wasn't -- not that he wasn't good at 18, 19, but he wasn't good enough to just skip college and go to the pros. 

 Q.  You see somebody like John Isner, a different way.  Seems like it's working. 
 SAM QUERREY:  Exactly.  Hopefully a lot of guys -- hopefully more guys will start doing that.  For me I think not going to college was the right choice.  I could have gone to college and still graduated next year, come out, had a great career. 
 I mean, I skipped college, ranked 48 right now.  Can't complain too much.  I think most likely I'll go back when I'm done. 

 Q.  What's the one thing on the Pro Tour end that's surprised you the most? 
 SAM QUERREY:  Surprised me?  It's not really a surprise, but kind of that trip to Europe April, May.  Took two five-week trips.  Came back.  Went back to six weeks.  It can be long and tiresome, especially when you lose first round every week like I did. 
 You lose on Monday.  You wait six days.  You lose on Monday, wait six days.  That kind of just gets tiring, a little lonely. 
 Other than that, it's pretty fun.  I'd rather be doing this than have a job or be in school. 

 Q.  Where does your schedule take you from here? 
 SAM QUERREY:  I'm going to Davis Cup in Sweden and I'm going to play in Bangkok, then Tokyo.  I'm coming home.  I think I'm going to go back for a tournament in Lyon, then the Masters Series in Paris. 

 Q.  Back on the road a lot. 
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah.  Five weeks.  Five more tournaments. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT