WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 16, 2007
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  So for now, until James plays tonight, you're the last American in the quarterfinals.  Do you feel you're carrying the flag, so to speak?   
 SAM QUERREY:  A little bit.  Not really, though, because like you said, James is still in it.  Obviously Andy lost in a tough one today.   
 If it was possible it would be nice to have four or five American in it.  Hopefully James can come through tonight and there will be two of us.   
  
  Q.  What has this run been like for you, this level of tournament?   
 SAM QUERREY:  It's awesome.  I mean, to be in the final eight at a tournament like this where you have the top 50 guys in the world pretty much all here it's a pretty good feeling.  A lot for my confidence.   
  
  Q.  How much does it raise your confidence level?   
 SAM QUERREY:  A lot.  Especially two weeks before the Open.  I couldn't ask for anything more than this.  Hopefully I can keep going and win some more rounds and possibly win the tournament.   
  
  Q.  When you said that what you did in Indianapolis was pretty big, bigger than the next week in Vancouver, where does this compare?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Well, I mean, this is right up there.  It might even be better to make the quarterfinals here at the a Masters Series.  But I mean, both things semis of Indianapolis, quarters here, they're both great boosters in my career.   
  
  Q.  Are you turning some sort of corner at this point, do feel like?   
 SAM QUERREY:  A little bit.  I was kind of in a slump for a while there in April/May and now kind of when the summer hard court season kind of came along I've kind of turned around.  I've been working harder off the court and in practice I've been doing everything right and it's been paying off.   
  
  Q.  Is this like on some level a career-changing kind of moment?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Not yet.  Maybe if it I win the tournament.  But right now it's not a career changing moment, but it's definitely a big boost in my confidence.  Hopefully it'll help in the tournaments to come.   
  
  Q.  Do you seriously think about winning this thing?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah.  I mean, I don't want to, like, go sign up and play a tournament if I don't think I'm going to win is it.  Obviously there are some great players out there:  Federer, Nadal, James, Andy.  But, yeah, I can always possibly win it.   
  
  Q.  Does it seem at all remarkable to you that you're not all that far removed from a seven-match losing streak and things have changed pretty quickly and we're talking about you possibly winning a Masters Series tournament?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah.  If you had asked me this a month and a half ago I probably wouldn't have anticipated being here.  Kind of turned around, yeah.  It's a good feeling.  Hopefully I can win a few more matches.   
  
  Q.  What's the difference between the losing streak and now?  Playing the big points better?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Part of it is I'm now playing on hard court rather than clay and grass.  It's always nicer to play in America.  The crowd is behind you and it's more comforting.   
 Yeah, I mean, I've been working harding and I've been playing smarter.  Like what you said, playing the big points a little safer.  Kind of a combination of a lot things.   
  
  Q.  Assuming James wins tonight, talk about that matchup.   
 SAM QUERREY:  That would be any fourth time playing James, which is -- I've never played anyone four times on the tour.  Played a couple guys three times.  That would be fun to play James.  Two American in the quarterfinal of Cincinnati here.  Hopefully he'll come through tonight and it'll happen tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  You talked about the confidence, but that would be a big boost as well, beating him.   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah.  Definitely.  He finished No.4 in the world last year and he was 8 or 9 when I beat him, and that was definitely a great feeling to beat a guy like that.   
  
  Q.  If you play him tomorrow does that help?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah.  I mean, it helps to know that I have beat him.  But I'll obviously have to play very well to have a shot at beating him again.   
  
  Q.  What's it like right now knowing you can watch that match and you're already through and you're essentially watching your next opponent?   
 SAM QUERREY:  It's a good feeling to know that I'm already on to the quarterfinals and I've kind of got the rest of the day to relax and kind of go out to dinner and hang out and come back here tomorrow whatever time I do play, afternoon or night, so it's nice.   
  
  Q.  You going watch that?   
 SAM QUERREY:  I will probably watch it, yeah.   
  
  Q.  You don't seem real overwhelmed to be playing a quarterfinal of a Masters Series event.  Do you feel pretty even keeled?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah.  I mean, and hour ago right after the match I was kind of right in the moment.  I'm kind of settled down now.  Tomorrow when I walk on the court I'm sure the butterflies and the anticipation will kind of kick in a little bit.   
  
  Q.  Who's here with you this week?   
 SAM QUERREY:  My coach, Grant Doyle is here.  My mom and dad flew out here last night and watched the match today and they're going to watch tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Had they planned on -- I guess they wouldn't fly out if you hadn't won, or was that already planned?   
 SAM QUERREY:  No.  Before the tournament they were kind of thinking about coming, whether it was first round or here.   
  
  Q.  Have you talked with them yet?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah.  I just ran into them outside.  They're really excited.  They couldn't be happier.   
  
  Q.  You were playing on grandstand today opposite Roddick, so there probably weren't a lot of people over there.  Early on I counted and there was about 150.   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah.  That's all right.  I expect that when Roddick is playing on center.  But tomorrow I'm assuming I'll be on center, so hopefully it'll be a little different.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT