WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 15, 2007
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You went from 0-9 against top 10 players now two weeks in a row.   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  How does ha feel?   
 SAM QUERREY:  It's a good feeling.  I think that one win kind of boosted my confidence and kind of motivated me and gave me the belief that I could beat other top 10 players.   
  
  Q.  Seems like you always served well almost, but today you held your own on your groundstrokes.  Did it seem that way to you?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, definitely.  From the first point the racquet felt amazing in my hand, like the best it's ever felt.  I was just hitting the ball really clean from both sides.  I felt like I was going toe to toe with him from the baseline.   
  
  Q.  In the first set, he rarely won any points on your serve until that game where he broke you and you still held your composure.  How did you do that?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Last month or two I've been working on the mental part of game and staying level-headed and not losing my cool, and it's paying off in the matches.   
  
  Q.  Staying mentally tough, he wasn't able to do that in the second set.  He had two breakpoints in the first game.   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, that was a big game to come back and win that.  In the third battled back.  I was down a break early and came back.  That's two matches in a row that I've done that.  Just if I stay focused and level-headed I'm tough to beat.   
  
  Q.  What about the finish, how you served out the match?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, I couldn't have asked for a better service game.  At the end a couple big serves.  Probably my best backhand of the match on match point, so I was pretty happy with that.   
  
  Q.  How soon after the match did you find out you would not be playing Nadal?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Like eight seconds.  Some little kid told me.   
  
  Q.  Okay.   
 SAM QUERREY:  I mean, I wanted to play him, but I think he retired.  What was the score when he retired?   
  
  Q.  4-1 in the second.   
 SAM QUERREY:  Lost the first?   
  
  Q.  7-6.   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, I would have liked to have played him, but I'm not going to complain about it.  Monaco has won three tournaments this year, I think, so I'm looking forward to that one.   
  
  Q.  When you said some little kid told you, was it right there on the court?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Right, walking off.  I don't remember exactly how it happened.   
  
  Q.  Did you know the fans who were chanting for you, Ace, ace, in your face?   
 SAM QUERREY:  No.  I like those guys though.  About eight of them.  They were awesome and they were definitely helping me out there.   
  
  Q.  When you talked about working on the mental part of the game, have you been working with a psychologist or something?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Not really.  I just told myself to be mentally stronger and it's been working out.   
  
  Q.  There's not a huge amount, as a matter of fact I don't know that there's anything on you in the ATP book right now.  Now, you chose not to go to college.  You chose to try your hand at this.  Is this happening all faster than you thought?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Not really.  I mean, I've been at it now for a little over a year.  I've kind of played all the tournaments and kind of know the ropes now.  But I definitely made a big jump relatively quickly.   
 I'd rather do that than slowly progress up to the top.  I'm definitely happy with the choice I made.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned those fans.  How common has that been, that much support in a specific match?   
 SAM QUERREY:  I mean, in America it's nice.  Pretty much all my matches now have the crowd behind me, whether it's everyone or majority of them or fun group like that.  That's definitely fun and helpful.   
  
  Q.  How long do you think that people have really known who you are, sort of an up and coming American?   
 SAM QUERREY:  I don't really know.  Few months maybe.  I don't know.  Maybe since last summer.   
  
  Q.  What kind of opportunities do you see in the next round?  Is it a little different because you're not playing Nadal?   
 SAM QUERREY:  I mean, every guy is -- everyone in this tournament is good.  Monaco, I mean, I played him earlier this year.  I lost him 6-4 in third on clay.  He's won three titles this year so he's -- I mean, he's a very good player and it'll be a tough match.   
 I'll have to play well again to beat him.  It's definitely a good opportunity.  I'm in The Round of 16 now in a Masters Series which is exciting, and a good chance to possibly make the quarterfinals.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT