SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 22, 2007
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  What happened?  You were supposed to be in the stadium and then they kicked you out.   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, I guess just the rain.  I was kind of bummed about that because I wanted to be on the stadium.  It's happened before.  The other four matches that they kept on the stadium, or five, were all, I guess, bigger names than myself, so I had no problem with it (laughing).   
  
  Q.  You might possibly be on the stadium court in your next match.   
 SAM QUERREY:  I would think so.  I heard Saturday night.   
  
  Q.  You've played four Top 10 players already this year and now you're about to play probably the No. 1 player in the world.  Do these matches at your stage, do they advance the plot?  Are you happy to play these guys, or would you rather wait until you're a little bit more ready?   
 SAM QUERREY:  I like to play them.  You've got to play them to succeed and win the tournaments.  I think once I do beat a Top 10 guy it'll boost my confidence a little bit.   
 Right now I'm 0-6 or 0-7 against them.  Federer is not that good, so (laughter).  It would be cool to get my first Top 10 win off him.   
  
  Q.  He's in a slump.   
 SAM QUERREY:  (Laughing) Yeah, I know.  He hasn't lost consecutive matches in like four years.   
  
  Q.  What does it feel like to go up against him?   
 SAM QUERREY:  I have nothing to lose.  I can just go out there and hit every ball as hard as I can and hope they all go in as winners (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Is there any other kind of preparation that you try to do, maybe in practice?   
 SAM QUERREY:  If I see him in the locker room or in practice, I'll give him a little stare or something, intimidate him.   
  
  Q.  You're taller than him.   
 SAM QUERREY:  (Laughing) But no, really, I won't do anything different than what I usually do, not that I do a whole lot, if anything.   
  
  Q.  Will there actually be less pressure on you because you'll sort of feel like, oh, I've got nothing to lose?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Probably, yeah.  I've got nothing to lose.  I go out there, play freely and whatever happens, happens.  Hopefully I can enjoy the moment and have fun.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you would tighten up if you won the first set?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah (laughter).   
  
  Q.  It would be a nice problem to have.   
 SAM QUERREY:  Right, exactly.   
  
  Q.  What about the additional pressure of having Tiger Woods sitting there?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Is he coming?   
  
  Q.  Yeah, he's going to be there Saturday.   
 SAM QUERREY:  My player box is going to be full of celebrities, too.   
  
  Q.  Who's going to be in yours?   
 SAM QUERREY:  My dad, this guy José Hidalgo, his guest, my buddy from SC.  That's about it.  I don't know, I'll probably get an autograph from Tiger maybe in between sets or something (laughter).  I'll bring a golf ball in there with me.   
  
  Q.  What's your weapon?  Is it your serve?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, serve, and try to use my forehand.  It was tough today because it was so windy, but serve and forehand are my two weapons.   
  
  Q.  Average speed is about 130?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Probably.  When I do play on the court with a radar gun it's usually in the 130s.   
  
  Q.  Do you pattern your game after anybody?   
 SAM QUERREY:  Not really.   
  
  Q.  (Indiscernible).   
 SAM QUERREY:  Yeah, I don't really serve and volley that much.   
  
  Q.  As the match progressed were there things you were particularly focusing on that are trends and weaknesses?   
 SAM QUERREY:  I was really trying to keep the ball in play and force him to miss.  On my service game I was trying to stay aggressive and kind of try to get in control of the points.  But on his serves I was trying to play defense and try to make him miss.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT