US OPEN
August 30, 2006
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. Q. You've obviously had some experience now on the ATP. You've got the challenger titles, reached some second rounds and so forth, saw you playing in LA. Winning on this kind of stage, talk a little bit about what that's like for you and your confidence. SAM QUERREY: Yeah, Grand Slams are definitely different than just the regular ATP events that I've been playing during the summer. So much more energy and the crowd's into it. It seems like they're a little more fired up. It's just a bigger stage and bigger event. I'm really happy to get through the first round.Q. You seem to, I notice in LA this, too, it helps when you've got your buddies out there rooting for you like in LA with the green hair. You seem to have your composure pretty well on the court. What were your nerves like?SAM QUERREY: My buddies were out there, some of my cousins and stuff. But I've always been a relaxed and calm guy. That kind of stuck with me through the Juniors to the pros. Just kind of my mentality that I have. Q. How was your level today? How do you think you played?SAM QUERREY: I thought I played great. One of my best matches of the year. Served really well. Just my forehand, I was just crushing it all day. Just felt great. Q. You play Bjorkman, is that right? SAM QUERREY: No, I think I play Gaston Gaudio if he won. I'm not positive if he won.Q. What do you know about him?SAM QUERREY: Won the French Open, I know that (smiling). Other than that, not too much. Q. What do you think about just your summer? I mean, what's really going well for you? SAM QUERREY: Well, I've had a great summer. Had wildcards into almost every ATP event this summer. That's been great. Makes life a little easier. Won some rounds at a couple of them, so that's been great. Gave me a little confidence coming into this tournament. So, I mean, the summer tournaments really boosted my confidence.Q. Do you feel any expectations or pressure coming in here?SAM QUERREY: Not really. I try to block out a lot of the pressure and the expectations and just try to, you know, focus on my game and do the best that I can.Q. What are your expectations of yourself? SAM QUERREY: I just try to play well and keep a good attitude and stay positive out on the court. You know, hopefully win a round. I mean, I'm happy to win a round here, but hopefully I can keep going and win another or another. Q. How are rookies treated in the locker room? SAM QUERREY: Uhm, I have a cold a little bit. I mean, I've played a lot of the tournaments now so I'm kind of treated like one of the guys. There's nothing really, you know, to pick on rookies. It's more the Davis Cup matches. Going to a couple of those, since I'm a practice partner, they pick on me a little bit more there.Q. Who rides you a little bit?SAM QUERREY: Mostly Andy. He's, yeah, he's the guy. Q. Do you have any conversations with Agassi at all? Have you gotten a chance?SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I went down to San Diego and practiced with him about two months ago before Wimbledon. That was the first time I ever met him. Practiced with him for a couple of days. We weren't really having serious talks or anything on the bench. We were just kind of out there practicing, having a good time. We weren't necessarily talking about tennis when we were chatting away.Q. Are you at all in awe to be here?SAM QUERREY: Yeah, this is awesome. I went to his first round match. To be in that stadium with the crowd and all the photographers, it was amazing. Hopefully he can put together a nice run here.Q. Did you come to the Open as a kid? SAM QUERREY: No, I live in California. I've been here the last two years so I played in the junior event. Q. Never before that?SAM QUERREY: Never before that, no.Q. What was the most fun thing that Andy said to you in Austin during your stay?SAM QUERREY: That he said to me? Q. Yeah. SAM QUERREY: I mean, he says a lot of funny things, but seems every time we're playing, he throws a bet in. There's a bet with every baseline game or every set. It's kind of stuff like that. You know, sometimes, you know, he'll, you know, say, "Go make me a sandwich," stuff like that.Q. And do you?SAM QUERREY: Yeah (smiling). He's had me down at his house, so...Q. Is it usually 'hold the mayo'?SAM QUERREY: Yeah, there's no mayo.Q. What's it like hanging at his house?SAM QUERREY: That was fine. He just invited me down there for a week before Cincinnati to practice and, you know, we're hitting three hours a day or so. Then after that we're going out on his boat, hanging out, kind of hanging with his buddies, we're playing poker. So it's really fun.Q. Blake says he's not that hot as a poker player. Little ways to go. Your comments? SAM QUERREY: I mean, Blake, I mean, that guy the couple times I've played with him, he'll win every table that I'm at with him. I think James plays more poker than he does tennis. I see him on line. Andy's pretty good. He won the tournament when we played at his house, but James might be a little better than Andy right now. FastScripts by ASAP Sports...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT