LAVER CUP
September 23, 2017
Sam Querrey
Patrick McEnroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAVER CUP   
Prague, Czech Republic   
23 September, 2017   
R. FEDERER/S. Querrey   
6-4, 6-2   
Europe - 5   
The World - 1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I feel I should apologize for this question before I ask it, but what is it like being out there in front of 17,000 people playing the guy that they have all come to see?  
SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I mean, it's uncomfortable.  You know, it was tough.  You knew that's going to be the situation.   
You know, it definitely takes a little while to kind of find your comfort zone out there.  I mean, "a little while," I never really found it.   
You know, he played incredible.  The fans are behind him.  You know, I had a great time out there, and it was fun to play him, you know, in his first match here, but he was just too good.   
 Q.  The overall experience up to now?  Your thoughts on that?  
SAM QUERREY: It's been incredible.  I mean, I don't know what Team Europe is saying, but I know everyone on Team World loves the event.  We have only been saying positive things.  Everything about the event has been first class, unbelievable.  The hotel, the venue, how we're treated, the atmosphere, you know, you honestly can't think of one thing that could be better.  So it's been incredible.   
VICE-CAPTAIN PATRICK McENROE: I could think of one thing, but...   
SAM QUERREY: Well, we could be winning.  That's true.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Patrick, it's clear from the antics, for want of a better word, on the bench...  
VICE-CAPTAIN PATRICK McENROE: I call it excitement.   
 Q.  ...that this is a youthful team driven by the players in their early 20s.  What's it like for you to be out there?  Do you feel like the uncle at Christmas when everyone is drunk?  
VICE-CAPTAIN PATRICK McENROE: I just have to get out of the way when they're ready to do their dances or whatever they're going to do.   
It's a lot of fun.  These guys, as Sam said, have had a great time.  They have a great chemistry between them.  They're enjoying it, enjoy the event, enjoy playing.  That's really what it's all about.   
Obviously, as we've all said, we'd like to keep it closer.  We are hoping we can still get a couple of wins today, but overall it's been a great experience and it's a lot of fun to be out there and just be part of the team.   
 Q.  I guess, Patrick, he was trying to be polite and saying you're old.  
VICE-CAPTAIN PATRICK McENROE: I understand (smiling).   
 Q.  Sam, you didn't play under John in his brief spell as Davis Cup captain, but...  
SAM QUERREY: I played under Patrick.   
 Q.  You played under Patrick.  Now that you have experienced John, as well, just compare the two.  
SAM QUERREY: I mean, I have only had one match with John out there in a quick two-out-of-three-set match, but, you know, both guys are excellent captains, great to have on the bench.  They have great tennis insight.   
I really enjoyed my time with P-Mac, and I enjoyed my hour and 10 minutes with John out there.  Hopefully there will be a little more time.  Both guys have been great.  Both are supportive.  Both are fun to be around.  Both have great tennis minds.  Not only me.  I think all the guys are really enjoying having both McEnroes here.   
 Q.  Patrick, I'd like to know if you have ever heard about 1970 when they started with the finals at the end of the year.  Everybody was a little critical and said, oh, it would not work and so on.  Then the ATP Finals have become probably the fifth tournament of importance in the world.  Do you see the Laver Cup with the same possible process?  I mean, that it will take a while but it will be very, very successful?  Do you see it?  And second thing, okay, the rest of the world, The World is not doing too well, and Europe had not here in Prague Djokovic and Murray.  It could have even been worse.  What do you think about this, the lack of balance?  It can be a problem for next year, two years, or three years?  
VICE-CAPTAIN PATRICK McENROE: Well, first of all, I think that it's -- it already is a great event.  Obviously time will tell if it gets to historical significance, but I think the first day and a half certainly says to me that it's an awesome event and people love it.   
And having the best players in the world all together is, you know, something that Davis Cup, as great as it is, doesn't always get.  So I think that's No. 1.   
No. 2 is, you know, certainly the balance in men's world tennis is in favor of Europe at the moment, but we could also say that, you know, we don't have Nishikori and Del Potro and a few other guys that would maybe make it a little bit more interesting, as well.   
So I think that will start to shift over the next few years.  We have got some good, young Americans and Canadians, for example, coming up.   
But I think the way it was set up was a brilliant idea.  You know, obviously Europe has been dominant at the top of the game for the last, you know, decade or so, but I think we have got enough players in the rest of the world that certainly, even now and in the future, it will be competitive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT