U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2017
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. QUERREY/G. Simon
6-4, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. He's been a really tough opponent.  He's a really experienced guy.  What was the game plan going in?  What do you think you did well?
SAM QUERREY: I thought I did everything pretty well.  The best thing I thought I did well was not get too down on myself.  I lost serve three or four times in a row at one point, which doesn't happen too often.  I did a good job of battling through that.
Every part of my game felt good today, so overall I was pretty happy.
Q. Do you understand the reasoning with the way the draw was switched around after Murray pulled out?  You go from a qualifier to Simon.
SAM QUERREY: I understand the reasoning.  The only one I don't understand is why the 3 doesn't go to 2.  If 5 is going to go to 2, and 17 is going to go to 16, the next guy in is going to go to 32, I feel like 3 should go to 2.  Other than that, I understand it.
Q. You obviously reacted very well.  When you found out you were suddenly playing Simon instead of a qualifier, how did that go?
SAM QUERREY: Yeah, a little nervous.  Simon is, you know, definitely not the guy you want to see first round.  He's been seeded at the slams for the most part over the past six years.  He just missed it here.  He's a tough player.
I'm happy to get through that because I know he was going to be tough.
Q. Coming off Wimbledon semis, great tournaments in Mexico, have your expectations changed for this tournament compared to prior years?
SAM QUERREY: No.  I lost first round the last couple years, so I honestly want to win one round and go from there.  I'm going one round at a time.  I feel like I'm playing really well.  I feel like I can go far in the tournament.
I'm honestly just looking forward to the next round against Dudi Sela on Wednesday and I hope I get by him.
Q. I heard a few weeks ago on the Tennis Channel, this is the first time you're playing without a vibration dampener.
SAM QUERREY: It was in Shanghai last year.  I kept getting racquets strung, I couldn't tell the difference in tension, whether I had 35 pounds or 50 pounds.  I took the vibration out and I could tell the difference a little more.
I committed to it in the off-season.  It was difficult for like a full month.  I finally just got used to it.  It's felt great this year.
Q. Was it the sound that made it different or the feeling on the arm?
SAM QUERREY: Both.  The sound, it's a little more pingy now without it.  It is easier on my arm.  I can tell, if I have a racquet strung at 50 pounds, I want it a little looser, I can send it back to get strung.  I can feel that one or two pounds difference in tension.
Q. It's cooler this year.
SAM QUERREY: I hope it stays that way all week.  I don't think you'll find a player complaining about that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT