WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2016
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. RAONIC/S. Querrey
  6‑4, 7‑5, 5‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Good tournament, tough ending. How did you feel physically? How did you interpret what happened?
SAM QUERREY: Felt great physically. I thought Milos played great today. I don't think I played poorly at all. 
I knew he had a big serve, obviously, but I was really impressed with his net game. He really didn't miss a volley today. He kept coming forward, kept the pressure on me, and I felt it. 
Kudos to him for playing a very good, clean match. 

Q. After you win the third set, turned it around a little bit, were you thinking you could go from there?
SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I felt like I had some momentum. Had a breakpoint the first game of the fourth set. If I can somehow get that point, it might change the match around a little bit, kind of move it to more of a 50/50. 
You know, he threw in a good kick serve as a first serve, which he hadn't done the whole match. Then I was back on my heels a little bit, kind of always playing catch up. Serving 0‑1, 1‑2, 2‑3. Then he got me.

Q. Both of you are big guys, play a big game. What is it like playing a guy so much like you? Do you prefer playing a guy different from you or is it interesting playing someone similar to you?
SAM QUERREY: I don't have a preference either way. The tough part is playing a guy like him or John Isner or Kevin Anderson, but especially Milos today, you know, you don't get in a rhythm. You go games on his serve where you might get one return in play, he's going to knock off a volley. 
On my service games, he was taking cuts at second‑serve returns. You don't feel like you really get a rhythm out there. Especially if all of a sudden it's 30‑All, you've got a forehand in the middle of the court, you're kind of like, I haven't hit a mid‑court forehand in 30 minutes. It makes it tougher than playing someone else. 

Q. Not a bad week for American tennis. Do you think it's an encouraging sign for the U.S. game?
SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I think it's been a great two weeks for the men's side especially, and the women pretty much always have at least Serena going deep. But, yeah, all in all I thought it was great. 
Steve Johnson had a great run here and also got his first title. Even though John and Jack lost in the third round, they lost to tough players. To have two guys in the third round, a guy in the fourth round, a guy in the quarters, we don't do that too often, so it was nice. 

Q. It's on to hard courts now. 
SAM QUERREY: I'm playing Newport next week, but then, yes, hard court. 

Q. Is this good prep for the hard courts for you? 
SAM QUERREY: Yeah. I'm excited for the hard court season. I like playing there. I feel like I've got a lot of momentum. The first kind of half of the year has been, you know, great for me. I'm just going to try to keep going. Put my foot down on the gas pedal, collect more points, hopefully see my ranking go up even more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT