WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2015
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. QUERREY/J. Isner
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. Impressions from the match?
SAM QUERREY: I thought I played well. I know he was a little wobbled there in the first set, but besides that I felt I did everything well. Returned well. Did everything. You know, forehand and backhand were solid. 
Didn't make many mistakes. I was happy how I played.

Q. What's it like playing someone you know so well?
SAM QUERREY: It's not that fun, but, you know, it happens all the time. Played John five times; played Stevie three or four times; played Andy six times; James a handful of times. It's just part of the game. 
After in the locker room we talked like nothing happened, so everything is all fine.

Q. You know his game so well. Do you expect him to do some things that he might not normally do and do you try to do some things he wouldn't expect you to do?
SAM QUERREY: Not really. I think each of us kind of know what to expect, and whoever kind of executes on that day is most likely going to win.

Q. How do you feel just about the season? You had early losses, couple of finals. 
SAM QUERREY: It's so‑so. There are ups and downs. You know, couple matches have gotten away from me, but I felt like I played well the last few weeks. Hopefully can end on a strong note with the last‑‑ these three tournaments in the summer and then Asia and Europe at the end of the year.
Optimistic and looking forward to the next part of the year.

Q. Thoughts on Davis Cup in Uzbekistan?
SAM QUERREY: Interesting place. I don't think anyone has ever been there. They have a tough team. It's going to be atough match, and hopefully we can win it and get back into the World Group next year.

Q. How has Cincinnati treated you? What do you take away from this town?
SAM QUERREY: I like it. Been here eight or nine times. It's a lot of fun. It's not really Cincinnati. It's Mason. You feel like you're out in the suburbs. You've got your own cars, you go around to different restaurants. It's a pretty easygoing way. 
I think all the American guys really like it, especially.

Q. For the younger Americans you have played in the last year or so, whose game do you like the best or do you see breaking through out of those guys?
SAM QUERREY: Jared Donaldson probably. He's really solid. 
Are you talking about the 17, 18 years olds that all played Kalamazoo? 

Q. Yes.
SAM QUERREY: I have never played a match against any of them besides Jared and Kozlov. Jared is tough. He won his first match here. 
All those guys could break through: Tiafoe and Taylor Fritz, Reilly Opelka. They're all really good. Tommy Paul. 
I couldn't pick one.

Q. Anyone else from the hitting partners from Davis Cup team you like?
SAM QUERREY: No. I don't know who's coming to Uzbekistan, but ‑‑and I also don't know who went to England this year. I don't know who was there. I can't really comment on it.

Q. Guys are playing later and longer careers. Do you feel any sort of urgency about your own career at this point? Do you feel there is a long way to go?
SAM QUERREY: Yes and no. Like I don't feel a sense of urgency, but I'm 27. I want to‑‑ you know, maybe at 30, 31, you know, you get tired of the travel and you want to call it a career. But I also, by that point, want to accomplish what I want to accomplish. 
So from that standpoint you feel a little urgency. But, hey, maybe at 31, 32, 33, I'm loving it more than I ever have.
From that standpoint, then, no, there is not really any sense of urgency because I have got seven or eight years left.

Q. Are you clear about what it is you want to accomplish?
SAM QUERREY: No. 

Q. What kind of interaction have you had with Mardy this summer?
SAM QUERREY: I have seen him ‑‑I haven't really been in LA much, but after Wimbledon I was there for a couple of days and we hit some balls. I saw him in D.C. and then here. Nothing more than just friendly banter, chatter at the player restaurants. 

Q. Of his generation, Fish, Blake, Roddick and all those guys, and Sampras' generation before that, which of that group kind of made more of an impression on you coming up? Were you too close to those guys?
SAM QUERREY: No. Like Andy, James, and Mardy, all in different ways kind of made an impression on me. Early on it was Andy. He was kind of ‑‑he was also 1 in the world at the time. When I was 18 he would invite me to his house in Austin to practice, so for a lot of that it was him.
And then I became really close with James for a while. He invited me some places. He was a great role model and great guy. 
Later on it was Mardy. He had moved to LA and we practiced every day together for three years. 
So they kind of all made an impression, but at different points.

Q. What do you think is Mardy's legacy since he's wrapping it up in NewYork?
SAM QUERREY: We kind of joke around. He played so well yesterday. What if he makes the semifinal here and then quarterfinals at the Open? Is he gonna... 
He has had an amazing career, especially with the Olympics, top 10 in the world, you know, on the Davis Cup team. You know, he wasn't playing, but he was a part of the group and won it. A final here, Indian Wells, and ‑‑ here twice, actually. Indian Wells.
So he's done some amazing things and has a very ‑‑he has a career to be proud of. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT