WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2015
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/S. Querrey
  6‑4, 6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Started off well.   How did you feel about the way you played?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, came out hot.   The first nine games really were neck and neck.   I thought we both played well.  
I was happy with how I played overall.   My first‑serve percentage was what hurt me the most today.   I think it was 57%.   But other than that, I felt I hit the ball great from the baseline, returned well.   
You know, he's really good.   Does a good job of bringing me in on his terms and then make me hit tough volleys.  
But I was happy with how I played.  
   
 Q.   It looked, to me anyway, like he played out of his mind.   
SAM QUERREY:   I thought he played really well.   I mean, I was just saying I thought I played well.   Besides my first‑serve percentage I was hitting the ball great, and, you know, he's just Roger Federer.   He's really good.  
   
 Q.   As much as that guy has won, do you think like losing last year to Djokovic, especially when he comes back, looks like he has a good shot, do you think something like that possibly stays with him and he has a point to prove?  
SAM QUERREY:   I would think no, but I have no idea.   I mean, if I'm trying to put myself in his shoes, which I can't really do, I mean, he's accomplished so much and won so many of those matches, I mean, you can't have ultimate perfection.   So he's not going to win them all.  
But I don't think those would stay with him, but maybe they do.  
   
 Q.   You were in really good form coming here this week.   I mean, how much do you feel like he was on next level to where you were at today?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, him, Rafa, you know, Novak, Andy, they've got another level that no one really has, that they are at consistently.  
Even when I was playing well, you know, I've got to bring my level up three more notches to beat a guy like that, which is tough.  
Even still, I came with a lot of confidence.   I felt like if I had a different draw, I would still be in the tournament.  
   
 Q.   I believe you hadn't played him in a while, since '07 or '08 when he was kind of at the height of his powers.   
SAM QUERREY:   Right.  
   
 Q.   Is it too far distant or can you compare that Roger Federer to the guy you were playing today?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, back then I was also 19 then, and I remember I played him at the French Open and Miami, and I was just thinking, Go out there and don't get embarrassed, get a few games and make it competitive.  
You know, because those were the years he was losing five times a year.   You know, now, you know, not that his level has dropped that much, he's still 2 in the world by quite a bit, you feel like you have a little more of a chance.   I feel walking out there, especially after the first seven, eight games, I'm in this.   This first, second set can go either way if I keep it up.  
   
 Q.   Are you still working with Rodney Marshall, with The Rocket?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   He's worked with a lot of you guys.   What does he do that's so special, and you guys running and sand dunes and all that kind of stuff to get in shape?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, he's all in all a great fitness coach, really knowledgeable.   You know, I feel like the biggest thing is his effort level and he cares.   He puts the effort in to travel to all of the events.   
He's in Rome and in Madrid when we are all losing first round and he's sticking with us and working us out, you know, the rest of the week.   
And at home. He's always the guy, Hey, on Saturday morning, let's get up and go run the sand dunes or where can I meet you on this day and this day?   He's always there and supportive.   He's a great, knowledgeable fitness coach.  
   
 Q.   Psychologically, how hard is it when you play Federer to keep going, just sort of try and remember where you are and not think, I'm playing this guy, you know, on Centre Court?   
SAM QUERREY:   It's tough.   I mean, he's got that aura around him.   You know, today he hit that shot between the legs.   He hit some amazing passing shots, hit some half volleys.   He hits shots that other guys don't hit.  
You know, you want to go over and give him a high five sometimes, but you can't do that (Laughter.)  
I mean, it is tricky.   You know, that's the first time I played him in seven or eight years.   I haven't been out there on the court with him too much. But, yeah, you want to beat him.   But he's fun to watch, too.   
   
 Q.   James Ward won today, and you have seen him at his best.   When he is playing that well, how good can he be?   What do you remember from the Davis Cup?  
SAM QUERREY:   He seems to play better in big situations, big tournaments.  
Yeah, he's a guy that you expect him to do well somewhere at a tournament like this rather than, you know, a challenger or 250 somewhere it seems like.   
You know, with the right draw and ‑‑ who does he play now?   
   
 Q.   I forget.   
SAM QUERREY:   He's got, if he can ‑‑  
   
 Q.   Pospisil.   
SAM QUERREY:   Okay.   Good opportunity for both of them.   
Yeah, I mean, he's a good player, he needs to consistently do it I guess a little more, make the fourth round here, I guess.  
   
 Q.   He's really been a thorn in the side of the U.S.?   
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, he has (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Is that aggravating?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, it's aggravating, beats me, John, and loses to Chase Buchanan 6‑2, 6‑2 in a challenger in the middle of nowhere.   The guy he steps up the big moments so you have to credit him with that.  
   
 Q.   Would you say at the end of that, I did my best, gave it my best shot?  
SAM QUERREY:   Today?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.   I think I could have served better, but other than that, I think I did everything really well.   
   
 Q.   How much have you admired and watched what your good friend Madison Keys has done these last few months and the pressure she's faced to follow it up after the Australian Open run?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, I have never semi'd at a slam like her, but when you do that early in the year, you set the bar high for yourself, like the year Genie Bouchard had last year.   It's tough to keep that up when your expectations are high, and Madison has done a good job of putting consistent results on the table and a really nice, fun girl.  
I'm always cheering for her and she's cheering for me.   And hopefully she can keep moving up in the rankings.   
   
 Q.   What's your summer schedule?  
SAM QUERREY:   Playing Newport, then a couple weeks of World TeamTennis.   Then D.C., Montreal, Cincinnati,     
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT