BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2015
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STAKHOVSKY/S. Querrey
  2‑6, 6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   How did you feel about the match?  
SAM QUERREY:   Not very good.   It was windy, which made it tough.   I don't know.   I haven't been hitting the ball all that well this week.   
It's tough to go out there when four or five days of practice beforehand didn't feel that good.   He's a tricky guy to play because he's not like ‑‑he doesn't just hit that kind of rally ball side to side.   He comes to the net, he dropshots, he slices.   He kind of gives you a different look all the time, so it's hard to get a rhythm.  
   
 Q.   Something changed between the first and second set.   You won the first pretty easily.   
SAM QUERREY:   Won the first easily.   I mean, granted, he wasn't playing lights out out there either.   He was donating some games.  
You know, I think if I hold 3‑1‑up in the second‑ 4‑2, 3‑1, I can't remember ‑ probably goes my way.  
   
 Q.   How tough was that in the second set?   Where was your confidence at when you were up 3‑1, 4‑1 and it all turned?  
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, it was high.   Like I say, I still didn't feel great the way I was hitting the ball.   Nonetheless, I was winning comfortably.   
That's tennis.   Even when you're up like that, all of a sudden you're down break point.   If he gets that you're back on serve and it's a coin‑flip match.  
   
 Q.   He kind of showed emotion because the entire crowd was behind you.   Do you think that played into his rally?  
SAM QUERREY:   No.  
   
 Q.   More generally, not a super great start to the year.   Memphis you started to get some momentum.   Overall, have you been feeling like you just haven't been hitting the ball all that well?   What's the general feeling?  
SAM QUERREY:   I don't know.   Up and down.   Not the first time this happened.   
But, yeah, just I feel like some days I'm out there, whether it's the practice court or a match, and I'm feeling good, and there are other days I wake up and just not feeling that good.  
I need to figure out how to wake up and make it feel a little more consistent every day, but that's difficult for me.  
   
 Q.   How is it going with Tom?  
SAM QUERREY:   It's going well.   I enjoy working with Tom a lot.   Great coach.   We have good chemistry.   I like everything he's saying.   
I think everything has to do with myself kind of in my own head.   Just getting it together somehow.  
   
 Q.   What's he focusing on as far as your work together?  
SAM QUERREY:   You know, we focus a ton on kind of footwork and being athletic, being an athlete out there.   You know, looking to be aggressive, come in, looking on my serve to kind of go four, five quick points and out and put the pressure right back on them.   
Things like that.  
   
 Q.   Outside of tennis, talk about the TV show.   Been fun?   What's your takeaway from it?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.   I filmed it in November, so it's been five months since I actually did it.   It was a lot of fun.   Took like five or six days to film.   It was fun to watch last weekend, and all my friends and family, everyone seemed to like it.   
I thought it turned out well.   So I'm overall happy I did it.   You know, it was really fun.  
   
 Q.   Best part of doing it?   
SAM QUERREY:   You know, probably sitting and watching it with my friends and watching everyone kind of laugh.  
   
 Q.   Where did you watch it?  
SAM QUERREY:   I watched it in the hotel here.   I wasn't sure ‑‑it was kind of confusing, because on DirecTV it was on at 7:00, but if you didn't have DirecTV it was on like 10:00.   
So no one knew what time it was going to be.   We scrambled and all my friends, we all watched it in my hotel room together.   
   
 Q.   Who was that?  
SAM QUERREY:   Madison Keys was there with me.   She was the only other player.  
   
 Q.   Did you order pizza and beer?  
SAM QUERREY:   No.   We just kind of all came to my room.   Rocket was with us and some of my friends came down.   Watched it and went to dinner after.  
   
 Q.   What's been the most interesting comment you've gotten about it?  
SAM QUERREY:   Nothing out of the ordinary.   I mean, it's all been positive feedback from everyone.   You know, I thought I came off, you know, looking pretty good on the show.   You know, the lady I did it with was pretty nuts, so that probably made me look better.  
   
 Q.   Pretty nuts?  
SAM QUERREY:   Sheree from The Real housewives from Atlanta, she was the other lady on the show.   I'm happy I did it.   It was fun.   Everyone seemed to enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   What happened to Kylie?  
SAM QUERREY:   You know, we never saw each other after the show, after we filmed.  
   
 Q.   Try and look her up?  
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, we have her phone number.   Texted a little bit, but never got together.  
   
 Q.   More nervous going out for a big match or doing the show?  
SAM QUERREY:   You know, probably the show (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Did you get any unsolicited sort of asks from other women?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, there have been some people on the grounds have been yelling, like, I saw the show; I'm single.   Things like that (Laughter.)  
Q.Sam, really tough question:   If you could put any bachelor from the ATP on that show aside from you, who would you choose?  
SAM QUERREY:   On that show?   Verdasco or something?   I don't know who is a bachelor and who is not a bachelor.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT