U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2014
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. QUERREY/M. Gonzalez6-2, 4-6, 6-4, 6-3THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. This is the 50th year the Louis Armstrong has been up.  So what are your thoughts about playing over there?  Is it any different?  Like your memories of the building.SAM QUERREY: At Louis Armstrong?  It's my favorite court in the world.  I love playing out there.  Got a good record out there.  I think Isner will say the same thing.  He likes it out there. It's a fun court.  People are down close and, you know, I'm always excited when I play out there.  I hope they don't have plans to knock it down or change it at all.  I really like it.Q. They are actually knocking it down after next year.SAM QUERREY: Oh.  Well, what are you going to do?  (Laughter).Q. I don't have to tell you about the state of American's men's tennis.  How important is this tournament to just prove and you maybe Mr. Isner are maybe not also-rans, just to fill up the draw, but this is the time to make a statement?  Is this on your mind?SAM QUERREY: That's not on my mind, but it is important.  It's the last Grand Slam of the year, only one in our country.  It's the one I think all of us would like to win more than the others. If you're going to peak at any time during the year, this is the time we want to peak.  You know, it would be great if not only one of us could make a run but a couple of us or three or four of us could be in the round of 16, quarterfinals and, you know, really boost American men's tennis.Q. Do you ever feel like it doesn't come easy?  This one went five sets.SAM QUERREY: Yeah, first rounds can always be tough.  You know, Maximo played great, I thought.  It was really hot out there today.  It was a physical match.  When I got the break in the fifth I was just kind of saving my energy for my service games. I'm feeling it a little bit now, but I think all of the guys are feeling it yesterday, today, tomorrow.  It's hot out there. It feels good to get through that, and I'm hoping to just play better as I go on.Q. Your fellow American Noah Rubin just played his very first US Open main draw match.  He didn't win today, but he had a great show out there.  Any advice for him?SAM QUERREY: Yeah.  I mean, I hope he's had a great summer with Wimbledon and Kalamazoo.  You know, I think he just needs to buckle down, work hard.  I think he has a good game to, you know, to move up the ranks.  I think he should play a lot of challengers when he can in the beginning, and hopefully, you know, do well on those. My advice to guys is to try to put your head down and battle through futures and challengers as quick as you can.  The quicker you can get through those I think the easier it is.  Once you're stuck in those for three, four, five, six years I think it's harder. I know he's going to college for a year, so try to dominate that and then try to dominate the next level and get in the tour events as quick as he can.Q. So you did really well at the Straus Center at UCLA year after year, and then that closed down.  Now you just said your favorite court is Louis.  Now they're...SAM QUERREY: When Louis is done I'm done.  (Laughter.)  I will find a new favorite court.  I'm not in love with it or anything.Q. Do you think you might convince the ATP to have the circuit always play at UCLA?SAM QUERREY: I would love that.  I'm not going to try to convince them because that's a waste of my time.  But I hope they bring a tournament back there as one of my favorite events. I played really well there, so, you know, hopefully in the next, you know, however much longer I play, 10 years or so, they will bring it back.Q. On a somewhat serious note, is there a court that, I don't know, the bullring or some court that you just really don't like on the circuit?SAM QUERREY: Yeah.  I'm trying to think.  I can't think off the top of my head.  Miami is a little weird.  Never really -- never feel good on those courts.  But it's always windy there, so that doesn't help. That's kind of it.  Every other court feels pretty good.Q. Do you think you'll be playing 10 years from now?SAM QUERREY: 36?  No.  (Laughter).Q. Because you just said --SAM QUERREY: I know.  I was just saying it so no one would ask the question, How much longer are you going to play?  Eight years.Q. Today's match reminds us of how much running you guys have to do, and Wozniacki has said she's going to run a marathon.  Andy Murray was talking about it saying he wants to run a marathon, but not until he finishes playing.  Do you see yourself doing that?SAM QUERREY: Absolutely not.  I mean, I run a lot for fitness.  That's the majority of my fitness.  Off-court fitness is running, but I have no interest in running a marathon.  That's as of now.  Maybe five years from now -- maybe next year that will change.  Right now, no.Q. What do you think about the growth of tennis in America?SAM QUERREY: Growth of tennis?  Is it growing?  I hope it keeps growing.  Great sport.  I mean, I want it to do well, and so I hope it keeps growing.Q. You realize if you don't run a marathon you can't get a subway endorsement deal.SAM QUERREY: I like Quizno's.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT