WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2014
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/S. Querrey
  4/6, 7/6, 6/7, 6/3, 14/12

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously it's going to be a tough one to swallow.   You had a match point which he played a good point on yesterday.   You were playing pretty inspired bull tennis yesterday, and then you had to sit on it again another night, both of you.   Just talk about the whole experience. 
SAM QUERREY:   Overall it was a good match.   I played well; he played well.
It was a little anticlimactic the fact that we had to come back.   Just kind of a bummer.   Probably would've been more fun to stay out there last night.   Couldn't do it because of lights. 
All in all I thought I played well.   Missed one too many forehands there at the end, and he did a good job closing it out.

Q.   It was getting dark and you guys decided you wanted to play on a little bit more.   That was kind of unusual?
SAM QUERREY:   The match was fun.   We could both see the ball fine, so why not?   If we're both fine with it, we keep going.   We maybe could have even squeezed out two more.   It was getting tough at that point.

Q.   Did you push to do that last night, or was that it at 9‑9?
SAM QUERREY:   No, at that point it was getting tough.   We had to play two more games every time.   They wouldn't let you stop on the one. 
If you had a long deuce game and had to play another game, might have gotten a little too dark.

Q.   Happens a lot here where you get matches that go to the next day, even though there is no rain.   So they need to start earlier? 
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, maybe even from 11:30 to 11:00.   First few days, seems like you have a handful of matches that go over and it bumps the next days' schedule back.
Once you have one go over, everything seems to waterfall on itself.
It's not a big deal.   Maybe, yeah, 30 minutes earlier wouldn't hurt.

Q.   Despite the disappointment here, do you feel like you started to feel yourself in this tournament and in this grass stretch?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, best month‑stretch for me I've had this year.   Felt good to win a handful of matches.
If I play like I played out there yesterday and today, I'm going to keep moving up in the rankings, and hopefully I can do that and play well in the summer stretch, which is my favorite time of year.
Yeah, that's it. 

Q.   Getting a few matches under your belt like that reignite the motivation? 
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, I'm a little bummed right now because I just lost.   Yeah, I'm sure it will.   I will go home, have a couple weeks off, and then I think I'll get excited, get ready to go for the summer knowing that I played well over here on the grass.

Q.   So back to L.A.? 
SAM QUERREY:   I don't know.   I'm going to go to Las Vegas I think with some buddies for a couple days and then practice in L.A.

Q.   And what's your first tournament? 
SAM QUERREY:   I think Atlanta. 

Q.   In Vegas with buddies.   What's that?   Playing cards?
SAM QUERREY:   Probably drive there and play cards, hang at my house, go out. 
I don't really know. 

Q.   It sounds ridiculous to say, but when you get broken in the 25th game, what are you telling yourself?   How did you fight against feeling the normal amount of deflation and try to keep yourself in that thing?
SAM QUERREY:   You know, I had some looks, like the whole fifth set on his serve.   Just kind of stuck in there I might get one.   I had a 15‑30, and then at 30‑All we had another good point.
Just tried to keep my head up.   It was tough because I hadn't broken him since the first game of the match.

Q.   A long time earlier. 
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.   I made him hold it out there at the end.   He had a hit a handful of good shots.   He won it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT