DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND:GREAT BRITAIN v U.S.A.
January 31, 2014
Jim Courier
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. WARD/S. Querrey
  1‑6, 7‑6, 3‑6, 6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Sports is a pretty tough ask.   What are your thoughts and feelings now on the match?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, a little bummed obviously that I couldn't help the team out.   It's not over.   You got to win three points and they've only got two.
We could bounce back tomorrow and Bob and Mike could win the doubles and I think Donald and I could take two on Sunday. 

Q.   Sam, do you feel that it was something that James did that changed things in that latter stage, or maybe you were getting tired or a combination?
SAM QUERREY:   I thought he played well.   He came up with some good shots.   You know, a few break points that I had early on, maybe if I couldn't come through on those it could have been different.
But he played well throughout the match. 

Q.   Sam, talk your serve a little bit.   You didn't allow him a break opportunity until the fourth, and then he got on a return on your serve.   Talk about what turned at that point. 
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I'm not a 100% sure.   I think he started to get a little read on it.   I started missing a few first serves when I needed 'em. 
He did a good job of putting returns in later in the match and forced me into some errors. 

Q.   Did either of you know much about James before this tie?   Have you seen any footage or watched him play?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I've played him before.   Yeah, knew quite a bit about him.

Q.   Did he do anything especially today that you weren't expecting him to do later in the match?
SAM QUERREY:   No, not necessarily.

Q.   Captain, what was your view of his performance today?
CAPTAIN COURIER:   I've seen him play several times.   He played Mardy Fish pretty tough at Wimbledon the other year.   So we got what we expected from him:   he was up, he was down, he was all over the place, but in the end he fought all the way through and his quality shined through.

Q.   Is what's your verdict on ‑ obviously you're 2‑nil down but not expected to be 2‑nil down ‑ but what's your verdict on where you are now and how you think your team can respond in the circumstances?
CAPTAIN COURIER:   Sam said it well.   It takes three wins.   We have three matches ahead of us so we obviously understand what we're up against.   We by no means are out of the competition this weekend. 
We'll be coming strong tomorrow.   And assuming things go well tomorrow, we'll be ready to rip on Sunday. 

Q.   Any thoughts, Jim, on the choice of surface?   Any thoughts on it at this point?   Still pleased with that choice?
CAPTAIN COURIER:   Yeah.   My thoughts are it was a good choice. 

Q.   Sam, I can only imagine this is a difficult match.   How d you bounce back and put this behind you by Sunday where you'll have a tough task at hand?
SAM QUERREY:   Obviously it's done.   You know, put my head down for two minutes in the locker room and bounce right back up and be out there cheering my team on tomorrow.   I'll be 100% ready to play some good tennis on Sunday. 
It's already behind me and already looking forward to watching tomorrow and then playing on Sunday.

Q.   Once he got on a roll, do you think there was anything else you could have done or did you feel the match was slipping away from you?   Talk about the tail end of the match then. 
SAM QUERREY:   You know, I think he started to gain some momentum and get some reads on my serve.   He started hitting the ball clean from both sides.   Like Jim said, kind of up and down, and he was up there for a while at the end. 
You know, kudos to him for making some big shots in the latter part of that match.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT