U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2013
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MANNARINO/S. Querrey
      7‑6, 7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you just talk about the match.   Lot of close sets. 
    SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I'm pretty bummed.   I don't know the stats, but I probably went 1 for 10 on breakpoints.   I need to do a little better there, just play better tiebreaks.   My first‑serve percentage dropped in the tiebreakers, which hurt.   I think those two things were kind of it. 

Q.   You sound like you felt like you were playing well last round.   Did you feel the same today?   Did you feel your level dropped?
    SAM QUERREY:   I felt good today.   He's a tough player.   The way he plays, slide you wide with the lefty serve, hits the ball low and flat.   The ball is not in my strike zone.   It's tough to leave the court feeling great. 
    But I felt pretty good.   You know, last week I didn't think I played great, but I fought through some tough matches to make a semifinal.   Came in with some confidence.   It was just a tough one today. 

Q.   For this year, it's been sort of an up‑and‑down year, especially the slams.   Paris was pretty good, but the other ones disappointing.   Fair to say?
    SAM QUERREY:   First four months were pretty good.   Then since I went to Europe, probably for the clay, it's been pretty bad.   I've got six tournaments left till the end of the year.   Hopefully I can turn it around a little bit and finish strong and have a few good results. 
    I'm just going to work hard and hopefully have some. 

Q.   Mardy was talking in Indian Wells about how guys don't understand the pressure that comes with being American No.1 till they get it.   You got it in March.   Was that something that made this year tougher at all?
    SAM QUERREY:   Not at all.   I mean, I didn't feel any extra pressure being the American No.1 or American No. 2 or 3.   Felt the same to me.   I think the most pressure is the pressure I put on myself when I'm out there. 

Q.   I don't know what your expectations are for yourself.   There's a lot of people that would say you would have made it past the fourth round at a major at this point.   What do you think is missing to get to the next step?
    SAM QUERREY:   I mean, I don't give a crap what anyone thinks.   I mean, it's my life and my career.   Whatever makes me happy is fine. 
    You know, I don't know what it is exactly to get to the next step.   Just winning a few more close matches, you know, being more aggressive.   I guess that's it. 

Q.   What are you looking to build on specifically from this match today?
    SAM QUERREY:   Uhm, I mean, I'm probably not going to build on anything from this match.   I've got doubles tomorrow.   Hope to make a run in doubles.   Sometimes that can give you a little confidence. 
    You know, just go home, practice hard.   My next tournament is Metz.   Go in with a nothing‑to‑lose attitude and win the tournament. 

Q.   Is it disappointing to not perform like you would like to at this event?
    SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, it's a bummer.   I wanted to make the third round.   It would have been fun to play Roger.   Really bummed that it happened.

Q.   You always seem to deal with wins or defeats fairly well.   You seem to be a relatively relaxed guy.   How do you balance putting pressure on yourself and staying fairly chill?
    SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, when I'm out there sometimes, you know, those pressure points, it's a lot.   It's making me tense and kind of nervous.   Once I step off the court, I can kind of let it go.   When I'm out there, you know, those big moments like today, I was pretty kind of wrapped up and tight inside. 
    You know, I got to figure out how to deal with those better.   I didn't do a good job of dealing with it today.   Got to, you know, find the answer to that. 

Q.   Where do you think that answer would be?   Is that in talking to a coach?
    SAM QUERREY:   I don't know.   Talk to my coach David, come up with a game plan. 

Q.   Any of the off‑court stuff affect your performance here?
    SAM QUERREY:   No.   I mean, my head was clear this week.   My tennis game felt good.   Things off the court were fine. 
    Yeah, it's just a tough loss. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT