U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2013
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/G. Pella
      7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑1, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about the match today.   
    SAM QUERREY:   I thought I played well.   I felt good out there, best I felt all summer.   Couldn't get a break point in the first two sets, which was frustrating.   But, you know, I was putting a lot of pressure on his serve and played a good tiebreaker.   
    Third and fourth sets maybe he got a little tired and kind of started to run away with it.   
   
 Q.   You have known James for a long, long time and been in a lot of different experiences with him.   What's the best one or two stories you can come up with that reveal James Blake as a guy or player?  
    SAM QUERREY:   I mean, I can't come up with ‑‑it's tough to come up with a bunch of stories.   One I can remember when I was 17 before Australia.   He was in Chicago around Christmastime, and I remember he invited me there for five days to practice with him, which as a 17 year old I thought it was one of the coolest thing I have ever done to go there and practice with him and hang out for four or five days.   
    There has been numerous times where, you know, he's taken us out, me ‑‑other younger guys, taken us out to dinner, invited us to practice, hop rides on planes with him, you know, gone to dinner with him.   There's just too many just to name a couple.  
   
 Q.   Do you sense how sort of the tide is changing?   Obviously Andy pulls out of the game last year and now James and Mardy obviously has not really been active.   Do you sense how things are changing and that the focus is on you and John in terms of American tennis?  
    SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.   You could definitely sense it, you know, now that those two guys ‑‑ and hopefully Mardy can come back.  
    But, you know, at least for the time being, you know, all three of them are kind of gone in a way.   Yeah, you could sense the tide has kind of already changed.   You know, I think it's what happens.   Guys get older.   
    Bummed to see James leave, but very happy for him.   You know, hopefully he'll pop up from time to time in the tournaments.  
   
 Q.   Have you lost much money to him?  
    SAM QUERREY:   No, I don't gamble with him.  
   
 Q.   Smart move.   
    SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure in your career you have had a lot of back and forths, both great wins and some setbacks.   But over the years, can you think of one or two pieces of good advice that you have gotten from coaches, family members, fellow players, something that's stuck with you a little bit?  
    SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, I think the biggest piece of advice is try to enjoy it out there, you know.   I think the whole experience, not only for me but for my parents, for my friends, for my sister, is very fun and exciting to be out here at all these tournaments.   
    And, you know, the rest of my career I want to enjoy it a little more when I'm out there and really try to have more fun because I know they get joy out of seeing me happy and having an enjoyable experience out there.   
    And, you know, I want to make the rest of my career a fun, enjoyable experience not only for me but for my close family and friends, too.  
   
 Q.   What's the joy that you experience on the tour?   What are the biggest problems?  
    SAM QUERREY:   I mean, it's more ‑‑the joy in matches.   You know, I want to ‑‑I do enjoy them, but, you know, there has been times when I've kind of been down a little bit, and I want to try to do a better job of enjoying the process of the match and the fight out there and, you know, just really the whole process of leading up to matches, during the matches, you know, the pressure of matches, things like that.  
   
 Q.   John was just in here, and a lot of reporters were asking him about with Andy retiring last year and James retiring this year, you and he are the two seeded guys now for the country.   Do you feel that added pressure and added excitement out there?  
    SAM QUERREY:   No, I feel no added pressure.   You know, the excitement, I mean, even if you had James and Andy and Mardy here all seeded, it would just be as exciting for me being a seeded American.   You know, I still feel like you have the crowd support, you still get the good courts.  
    You know, it's a bummer that, you know, this is James' last event and Andy and Mardy aren't here, but, yeah, I don't feel any extra pressure at all.  
   
 Q.   What's the update on your social life?   You're engaged?   Do you have a date?   What's shaking?  
    SAM QUERREY:   Ah, I mean, that's not really important.  
   
 Q.   I did want to follow up from the train of thought we had the other day, which was just briefly before.   James said that he'll miss the big moments, the match points, the breakpoints.   Talk about just your mindset at that point.   
    SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, because you do all the hard work, and, you know, you do the work and to get those break points and those match points, you know.   
    That's, you know, all the practices, all the running, the matches you work hard, you grind out long points to get those opportunities to earn the break points and the match points, and those are the points that you should remember, you should be excited about, you should be, you know, aggressive on and have fun playing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT