WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 12, 2013
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TIPSAREVIC/S. Querrey
  6‑7, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions?  
   
 Q.   Not an easy first‑round match, but none of them are easy here.   What's your assessment of the performance?   
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean all these Masters Series, especially the seven‑‑ not like Indian Wells and Miami.   Those draws are a little bigger, but the other seven are so tough.   
It just came down to breakpoints.   I had six of them.   Just was tentative and didn't get them.   That was the difference right there.   Double faulted both times.   
He had both breaks, one for me, and just a matchup of a couple points here and there.  
   
 Q.   Is that going for too much on the second serve?   
SAM QUERREY:   I think the big problem was on my breakpoints I wasn't aggressive enough.   Let him dictate and move me around instead of taking a shot at one.  
   
 Q.   How do you adjust?   You come to a tournament like this, and obviously preparation for the Open and everything, and obviously you plan to play a few matches.   When you don't have any more matches, what do you do now?   Is there a Plan B?   Do you just kind of cool your pants a bit after this or what?   
SAM QUERREY:   Just four or five days of practice in, get a bunch of practice sets.   I'm playing Winston‑Salem next week, so hopefully I can‑‑ I'd love to win that tournament.   I'd love to win five matches there.   
I'd love to win a couple at this point and just have a couple wins under my belt heading into New York the week after.  
   
 Q.   So you'll practice here, or do you go straight to Winston?   
SAM QUERREY:   I'll probably practice here three or four days and get there a couple days early.  
   
 Q.   Easy to find guys to hit with?   
SAM QUERREY:   Everyone's‑‑ half the tournament is in the same boat I'm in right now, so there's plenty of guys.  
   
 Q.   I have a question about serve and volley tennis.   You're a big server.   There's quite a few big servers out there, but serve and volley has kind of disappeared.   Theories on that?   
SAM QUERREY:   I think with the racquet and the string and the spin, you know, it's just so easy to block a ball down at a guy's feet.   You know, if you're on the run, it's so easy now.   Running forehand and passing shots are two easy shots in men's tennis.   It's easy to get a lot of spin on the ball, dip it crosscourt, hit the line.   
So it just makes it so tough.  
   
 Q.   Did you ever play a lot of serve and volley guys coming through, or are they just not out there?   
SAM QUERREY:   No.   I mean, they're not out there, because if you're doing that you're not going to win, and so you're probably at a men's open somewhere.   It's just too tough to do it consistently.   
There are a few guys, Llodra, Lopez, Isner, they'll throw in the occasional serve and volley.   But for the most part, they're baseline guys, and it's too hard and guys are too good at dipping the ball down these days.  
   
 Q.   Anyone try to turn you into a serve and volleyer?   
SAM QUERREY:   No.  
   
 Q.   Would you let them?   
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, I would just lose then.   I'm not going to.  
   
 Q.   Sam, it's been sort of a tough stretch of the season for you.   I know you missed Canada or pulled out of Canada.   Everything going okay basically?   
SAM QUERREY:   No, I'm all right.   It's been a tough stretch, but a lot of times just one good tournament can change things.   Fighting through a couple tough matches, you know, that's all I want to try to do, and hopefully that can kind of turn things around.  
   
 Q.   Today the rankings change, and the first time ever there's no Americans in top 20.   I was just wondering what your reflections are on that happening.   
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, John's 21 or something?  
   
 Q.   22.   
SAM QUERREY:   22; I'm 28.   Next week‑‑ I mean, I'm not going to move up, but John could get right back in there.   Just one week.   I mean, it happens.   I don't think it's a big deal.  
   
 Q.   Is there some reason why it happened, do you think?   I mean, it's never happened before.   
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, we just didn't do well enough to get as many points to get up there.   I don't really have a good reason.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT