NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 28, 2019
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. QUERREY/T. Fabbiano
6-3, 6-7, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. After all your injury woes, how good is it to get a decent run and be back on the grass?
SAM QUERREY: It feels good.  "Injury woes" seems like an extreme -- I had a little ab injury.  It lingered for three months.  It feels great.  We were just talking about it's my first final in a couple years.
I like playing on grass.  It's nice to take three months off and come back and make a final.  Usually that doesn't happen, so I'm pretty thrilled.
Q. Obviously we have Taylor Fritz in the midst of a battle with Kyle Edmund.  Both hitting with a fair bit of power today.  What are your thoughts on facing them on this particular grass?
SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I was just watching.  Taylor is up a set right now.  They both hit the ball hard.  They're both kind of fearless players, big forehands, big shots all around.
So historically those are the guys that do well on grass.  If I'm going to beat them, I'm going to have to kind of meet their pace and power and take advantage of those couple opportunities that I can hopefully get.
Q. You and Taylor live quite close to each other?
SAM QUERREY: Yeah.
Q. You hit together, don't you?
SAM QUERREY: Yes.
Q. What's it like with him?  How does that dynamic work when you're used to playing with somebody when you've then got to get into the match environment?
SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I mean, we don't actually practice with each other that much.  But, yeah, I see him all the time.  I have played him three times, I think, already.  I'm sure we'll play many more times.
It's never, like, that enjoyable playing another American, but it happens.  We have all played each other.  I've played John Isner and James Blake and Mardy Fish and Steve Johnson a handful of times, so it happens.
You've just got to put aside the friendship for a couple of hours and do your best to go out there and try to win.
Q. Also, which would you prefer:  Playing somebody from the home country or somebody who is the underdog who starts bringing the crowd around to the way they behave?
SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I mean, the crowd was pissed today when I hit an ace on the first point.  They made their decision then (smiling).
I mean, Thomas is very likeable.  I like him a lot.  I always cheer for him.  Like in anything, people like an underdog, and not only, you know, maybe with ranking and accomplishment-wise, the height difference doesn't help my cause either for, you know, going out there, like, Oh, the tall guy is gonna beat the little guy?
But he played really well, and, you know, he's a fighter and he's a guy that I always cheer for.
Q. So this whole David-and-Goliath thing must have been dogging you throughout your entire career?
SAM QUERREY: Well, he started kind of leaning on my serve and guessing.  So if I just made the serve, it was an ace.  The crowd was, like, Oh, another ace.
Well, I mean, he's guessing, so, like, blame him (smiling).
Q. Can you speak to your clothing sponsors?  I think you've got the best gear on this week, and it's really hard to get Fila gear over here.
SAM QUERREY: Thank you.  Yeah, I have been with Fila for, like, six years.  This is one of the cooler kits, I guess you want to call it.  I've got two shirts this week.  You know, it will be put on the shelf for next week, so it's nice to get the color out there.
As far as buying it in London, I don't really know.  I wish you can get it here.
Q. What will you do tonight?  Will you relax?
SAM QUERREY: Yeah, just relax, take care of my body, and get ready for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT