SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 20, 2013
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be the No. 1 ranked American?  
SAM QUERREY:   It feels cool.   You know, the main goal is working on your world ranking; it's not really the U.S. ranking.  
But it is a great feeling.   I feel like the other guys have been there, so I feel like I've kind of got my turn now.  
I'm excited.   I'm going to try and hold it as long as I can, but I know the other guys will keep fighting back for it.   
   
 Q.   The Davis Cup is going to be after this event in Boise, and the U.S. has done a good job in mixing up, hitting different markets.   What are your thoughts of it being held in Idaho, and what do you know about the area?  
SAM QUERREY:   I have been to Boise once when I was 11 or 12 on vacation.   Greg Patton, who is a coach there, is a great tennis enthusiast, a great guy, and I think he will single handedly bring a lot of people to it.  
But I think it will be a great environment.   I think it will be packed.   I think they've got a pretty good fan base up there.   I'm sure the Serbians don't know anything about Boise, but when they get there they will see they have a lively tennis crowd.   
It's going to be really fun.  
   
 Q.   Do you go into that with confidence because you have beaten Novak?   You beat him last year in three sets, right?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.   I guess a little bit.   I mean, he beat me last week, but, you know, I'm going to go into it and just try to play big and play like I have got nothing to lose.   It's not one match.   It's the best of five.   
So, you know, even if I don't get a win there, you know, hopefully John can.   Hopefully we can win the other two singles matches.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the transition of coming from the dry heat in Indian Wells to South Florida where, you know, you have more humidity?   Does that play better into your game or is it a tougher adjustment for you?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, you couldn't really have two completely different tournaments than these two.  
I guess I prefer the dry heat to Indian Wells a little more than the humid heat here.   It's not a huge difference.   Luckily I play on Saturday, so I've got five days to kind of get used to the climate, the balls, and everything.   
I think if I had a day or two to practice and then got into it I think it would be pretty tough.   Fortunately I have almost a full week, so I think I will be all right.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you want to win the tournament, but how well do you expect to do in this one compared to last week?   Because you made the round of 16.   
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.   I'd like to do at least that and hopefully further.   I'm just going to take it one match at a time.   Sometimes things can be out of my control.   
I could play a great match first round and lose to a guy who is just really on fire that day.   I can't really do anything about that.   I'm just going to try and take it one match at a time.   
But I'd like to at least match last week and hopefully do better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT