BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 10, 2013
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. QUERREY/I. Karlovic
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How big a win was this for you to come here and maybe not know your form, late match kind of windy and weird?
SAM QUERREY:   I didn't think it was that big.   I felt really good.   It's been a great start to the year.   Even if I would have lost that I'd still be feeling good and feeling confident. 
Ivo is a guy that win or lose you're not going to walk off the court feeling really good about your game.   Having said that, I did feel good.   I thought I returned well, and when we were in the points I thought I was hitting the ball through the court very well.

Q.   When you saw he won, was it like, Oh, shoot, or... 
SAM QUERREY:   No, I mean, it's tough, because to play Jack, he's a buddy of mine.   We hit all the time.   That's not easy either, and to play Ivo it's not easy.   I kind of kept going back and forth in my head.   I was cheering for Jack.   He's a friend.   I want him to win.
But it's also tough playing your buddy, too.

Q.   Two breaks?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.   I mean, I missed a backhand pass off the tape for a third, but I thought I returned really well.

Q.   Health‑wise is everything feeling good?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, everything has been 100% since, you know ‑‑it's almost been a full year.   Basically been a full year, I have been 100%.
Q.   How high can you go, do you think, now that you've been back a bit and playing and are healthy?
SAM QUERREY:   You know, I think I can reach the top 10.   You know, I'm going to hopefully keep putting results up.   I think these next, you know, three or four months through the French Open I could make hopefully a good jump because I don't have many points coming off.   I'm just going to keep working hard and doing my best.

Q.   Top 10 by the end of the year, is that the goal?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, I hope it happens in my career, you know.   I hope it happens this year.   But if it doesn't, I will keep working to get it next year.
Q.   Clay is not your favorite surface, but did you spend any time in the offseason training on that or just focusing on coming to the hard court season?
SAM QUERREY:   Coming to the hard court season.   I will play 25 events a year and 20 of them are on hard court.
So, you know, that's correct where I want to practice.   That's where I want to do the majority of my work on. 

Q.   Did you watch any of Mardy today?   He got emotional at the end.   Is it kind of emotional for any Americans to see him... 
SAM QUERREY:   I watched bits and pieces of it on Tennis Channel in the hotel room.   I was just happy to see him out there.
You know, he was close.   Bobby was up a break there in the third, but I'm happy to see him back and see him healthy.   Hopefully he can just stay healthy and play a full season to get back out there with all of us.

Q.   What do you know about your next opponent?
SAM QUERREY:   Matosevic.   I played him in Memphis and lost.   I'm looking forward to it.   I'm going to come out with more firepower and get ready to go with this one.

Q.   What makes him tricky?
SAM QUERREY:   He does everything well.   You know, he's got a pretty big forehand and pretty big backhand.   You can't really pick on anything.
I think those are the things.

Q.   Does that motivate you to come out against a guy you've lost to recently?   Is revenge a motivator?
SAM QUERREY:   It's more like I want to play bigger and play to my strengths a little more than I did last time.

Q.   So you let him dictate too much?
SAM QUERREY:   A little bit.   I think I was a little too tentative.

Q.   Since Karlovic is a guy you can't really get much rhythm on, do you go into your next match not knowing how you're really striking the ball?
SAM QUERREY:   No.   I practiced out there.   I feel good.   I have had ‑‑played a doubles match the other day where I felt good.   Got another one tomorrow against Bob and Mike, so I'll be feeling good.

Q.   Do you like playing against Bob and Mike?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.   Isner and I are 0‑5 or 0‑6 against them, so we're bound to get a win sometime.

Q.   (Question regarding Davis Cup.)
SAM QUERREY:   We always joke about that, but, I mean, it absolutely has no impact on Davis Cup. 

Q.   The famous Vitas Gerulaitis quote, Nobody beats Gerulaitis 18 straight times.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT