BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 31, 2012
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/N. Djokovic
  0‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Well played.   6‑Love 2‑Love, what do you think about your chances then?  
SAM QUERREY:   I didn't like them.   It was a little embarrassing, and I walked over to where [] Casey, kind of my physio/chiropractor sits with my girlfriend and [] Casey's wife and I said, I hope I can get two games in this set.   Embarrassing.   
Once I got the two games I kind of settled down.   I was like, Okay, that's all I want.   But then I got rolling and got more confidence and started serving better and being a little more aggressive.  
   
 Q.   You said you were going to hit your forehand; you hit your forehand, huh?   
SAM QUERREY:   Definitely the second and third set, yeah.   Hit my forehand, hit my serve, and they were dropping.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel he wasn't 100% on the other end?  
SAM QUERREY:   I felt like he was fine.   He was fighting hard the 4‑3 game where he had the break points.   He didn't play his absolute best, but I still came through with the big shots on the break points.  
You know, I know he's probably worried about London next week.   He's got bigger fish to fry next week, so still exciting for me.  
   
 Q.   Going into the match he said he was concerned he wouldn't be able to maintain his energy all the way through in the second set.   He said he found that his energy‑‑ he was struggling in every game with his energy levels.   So did you get a sense of that at all, because you must have felt that maybe the game was coming round and you might have a chance of doing something special?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, as I started going on I was a little more comfortable.   I was in his service games.   I could see he was struggling a little bit missing some shots he probably wouldn't normally miss.   
As I kept holding, just kept putting pressure on him and kept making it tougher and tougher and just kept him out there, and things fell my way at the end.  
   
 Q.   Obviously serving is a big part of your game, but in the eighth game you saved five break points and served three aces in a row.   You must have been delighted with your performance there.   
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I thought I served amazing, especially the big points.   I thought the 30‑All, deuces, breakpoints, those are a ‑‑I felt like I made a first serve there every time, which is a great sign, and I hope I can just keep that up.  
   
 Q.   When you do get close to a win against Novak, I mean, so many people have been close to a win against Novak and he is better than anybody probably at suddenly turning it around.   Was that in your mind at all?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean especially the 4‑3 game with all the breakpoints.   If he won that game he would have kind of maybe picked up a little more energy and stepped it up a little bit.  
But fortunately I got out of it and played a good game to serve it out.   
   
 Q.   Have you had a look at the draw?   Do you think you could make a good run at it?   You take out particularly the top seed it opens the draw for you.   What are your thoughts going forward?  
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, I hope so.   I've just got to take it one match at a time.   Everyone is tough in this event.   Next round I play Raonic or Chardy.   They both have huge serves.   
Any time you play a guy with a huge serve like those guys, if they have a great day serving you might be in a tiebreaker and it's a little more of a crap shoot.   I hope I can‑‑ you know, if I can beat Novak I feel like I will be feeling confident in my next round, and just try and take it one round at a time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT