U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2012
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/ R. Ramirez Hidalgo
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How important is style in tennis?   We know how important professionalism and athleticism is.   
SAM QUERREY:   It's pretty important.   I mean, like when I'm playing, if I have a cool‑looking shirt or a hat that fits me right, I feel better on the court.   If I have an outfit on or something that looks cool, I feel better on the court.   
You know, I think it's important.   I was just watching Federer in the locker room.   His shirt looks really cool.   I just mentioned it to someone.   To me it's pretty important.   
   
 Q.   As far as inspiration, is there anybody going back to maybe when you were a kid watching tennis, anybody's uniforms that were cool that stood out?   Was that part of the reason that made you want to play tennis?   
SAM QUERREY:   Not really.   I mean, had nothing to do with why I wanted to play.   I don't remember seeing anybody back in the day like, Wow, that guy's got a cool outfit.   
These days, the guys have a little more style, a little more pizazz with their outfits than they used to.   
   
 Q.   Sports like basketball, we've seen people like Allen Iverson, his personal style, turned the game upside down.   Ten years later you see all the other athletes following his lead.   How much room do you think there is for tennis style to grow into the mainstream?   
SAM QUERREY:   I feel there's a little bit of room, not so much as the other sports.   I feel there's a lot of restrictions with the clothes.   Things have to be tennis attire.   You can only have logos that are a certain width and height.   
A lot of it, I'm sponsored by K‑Swiss.   There's Nike, adidas.   Those guys just make the clothes; we wear them.   We don't have a lot of say in what we're actually putting on.   
I feel I can grow a little bit, but not too much more.   
   
 Q.   Can you evaluate your match today, what it means for you going to the third round?  
SAM QUERREY:   I played great today.   I served well.   Didn't face a breakpoint.   I was really aggressive on my forehand.   Really went for it.   Really just felt really good and confident the whole time.   I'm hoping to play like that on Saturday.  
   
 Q.   What has Andy Roddick meant to you in terms of following in his footsteps as the next generation of American tennis?  
SAM QUERREY:   He's been my biggest role model the last 10 years playing tennis, watching tennis.   He's been a great guy, a great leader to us all.   Nice and kind, really generous to the up‑and‑comers.   
For me, for Harrison, for the 18‑year‑olds now, he's just an unbelievable champion, a Hall of Famer, just a great guy, great person for the sport the last 12 years.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT