U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2012
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. QUERREY/Y. Lu
  6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Good test to start you off, Sam?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.   Lu is a tough player.   A little windy.   Hits the ball low and flat.   It's tough for me because I'm a taller guy, I like it up a little higher. 
I didn't play my best out there, but I just stuck with it so I'm happy to move on.

Q.   How do you deal with somebody who hits the ball low like that?
SAM QUERREY:   I think I need to move up in the court a little more, need a little more racquet head speed to get the ball up and down on my shots.

Q.   What are your thoughts about the state of Andy Roddick's game and his career right now, maybe any misconceptions about him when people are asking him about retirement at this stage?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, it's tough to ask him that question when he won Eastbourne, he won Atlanta.   You know, he's had a couple tough losses, but he's playing well.   He's ranked 20 in the world. 
I mean, I don't think you can ask him about retirement right now.   I think as long as he's happy and he's playing well, I think he's going to keep playing.

Q.   What does he mean to the guys who have followed in his footsteps, and how has he served in a mentor's role?
SAM QUERREY:   You know, he's kind of been the leader of American tennis amongst the guys for the last 10 years.   He's been great.   I mean, when I was 18, 19, still to this day, he was always one of the first guys to invite me to Austin to practice.   You know, I know he did the same thing with Harrison and a slough of other guys.   He's always there for motivation.   He's always there to tell you if you had a good win or to tell you, Hey, step it up, if you had a bad loss. 
He's really been a great mentor to everyone.

Q.   What have been your observations of the way Serena Williams has returned to a dominant state in the women's game?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, she's amazing.   I feel like when she's got her mind focused, when she's into it, she's just so much better than every girl, every other female player.   So when she's focused and committed, I feel like when she wants to win, she wins. 

Q.   Do you think you and Isner have taken over the mantle of U.S. tennis?   You are the faces of U.S. tennis now? 
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, Mardy Fish has had a couple good years.   I think real kind of the last year has been the top guy.   I feel like maybe we're heading that way.   We're the next two in line. 
You know, hopefully Donald can get back up there.   Ryan Harrison is on the rise.   James can hopefully put up another run. 
But, you know, maybe it's heading that way.   But I hope all the other guys can stick up there, too, and we can have a group of guys.

Q.   Do you think now to really be on the top of your game you have to be in your mid to late 20s? 
SAM QUERREY:   No.   I think it's we're in a wave where we happen to have a lot of guys in mid to late 20s.   Even Federer at 30 is winning.   I think 10 years from now it might come back and we might have a group of 20 or 21‑year‑olds doing it.   Then 20 years from now, it might be back up to the older guys.   It just happens to be that kind of time period.

Q.   What does James Blake mean to the tour?
SAM QUERREY:   James is huge.   James was right there with Andy for five years.   I'm not sure how many years he was in the top 10, but something like that.   You know, he's another just great guy who always was offering advice to juniors. 
He invited me, just like Andy did, to practice with him a few times when I was 17, 18.   He was one of the nicest guys out there.   I'm playing doubles with him this week. 
He's a good guy.   He's a guy you cheer for every time he's out there.   I hope he's got another run left in him.

Q.   What have been your observations of the way Roger Federer has returned to No.1?   When you think of the Federer legacy, what impresses you the most?
SAM QUERREY:   The fact that he did drop to 3 and got back to 1.   I mean, for me on a smaller scale, I was hurt last year and dropped from 17 to 120.   But it was very tough to get back to where I am now at 28.   I'm assuming for him to go from 1 to 3 and back to 1 is an even tougher accomplishment. 
So the fact that he did that I think is really impressive, especially at that late of age. 

Q.   How do you think he's been able to do it?
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, I think he's just really confident.   He's the greatest player ever.   I feel like a lot of times he can go out there and swing away on balls because he's like, Hey, you know, I've got 17 Grand Slams, $500 million, who cares if I miss this, and most of the time it's going to go in.   I think he's confident when he goes out there and believes he can make every shot. 

Q.   You've come back from injuries.   Nadal is facing the same task.   I wonder about your reaction, what it's like in the locker room without him, him not being here. 
SAM QUERREY:   It's a bummer he's not here.   He's a great guy for tennis, great guy in general.   I think it's his knee that's bugging him.   I hope it's not too bad.   I hope it doesn't require surgery and he can be back out there soon.   He's great for the game. 
On the plus side for some guys, you don't have to worry about him in the draw.   That's always a bonus for some guys.   But I think it's better for the game that he's here and playing. 

Q.   You mentioned you went from 17 to 120.   What do you have to do to get back to 17?
SAM QUERREY:   I need to keep winning like I've been doing.   I feel like I've been playing at a higher level than 28.   I feel like if I keep doing what I'm doing, I can get back into the top 15 and hopefully top 10. 
I want to keep serving big, hitting big forehands and taking risks and going for it more like I've been doing.

Q.   What are your thoughts about the next round?
SAM QUERREY:   I play Ruben Ramirez Hidalgo who I played once before on grass in Newport like four years ago.   So I don't really remember a whole lot.   I feel like if I serve well and do what I did today, hit big forehands, I have a good chance to win that and hopefully move on to the next round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT