WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2012
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. CILIC/S. Querrey
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑7, 6‑7, 17‑15 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You must feel gutted?  
SAM QUERREY:   A little tired, but it was a good match.   It was a fun match.   I had my chances, but, you know, kind of came through at the end.   
Those double faults didn't help me, but he played well.  
   
 Q.   How do you think you'll look back on this match?  
SAM QUERREY:   I feel good.   That first set, I could have won that first set.   You know, it slipped away.   Even though I lost, I feel like I played well.   I'm looking forward to the summer.   
I feel like I'm playing at a top level.   Even though I lost, I'm confident going into the summer and putting up some results.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised how much energy you had near the end?   You had some of the best rallies in the end of the match, late in the fifth set when you were fighting over that final break?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, a lot of times both of us are tired, and the ball didn't have that extra umph on it and the ball maybe slows down a bit.   I think guys can get a little ‑‑you get a little nervous.   Maybe you're not hitting bought as tough.   We had great rallies in the end, especially the 30‑All in the end, but that's how it goes.  
   
 Q.   I think it was the second‑longest match ever at Wimbledon.   Any thoughts about going after John's record?  
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, we're not even close to what he did.  
   
 Q.   During the match were you thinking about that?  
SAM QUERREY:   I never thought about that, no.   I felt like we were ‑‑even at 8‑All, 8‑9, I had 30‑All looks, he had break points.   Yeah, like we were getting looks during the match, so I just didn't see that continuing on for 60 more games...  
   
 Q.   And two more days.   
SAM QUERREY:   Exactly.   It did cross my mind though if we would have stopped, would we have come back on Monday, do you guys think?   That would have been a little weird.  
   
 Q.   What do you think the key is, though?   It's one little thing here or there, blink here or there.   Is there anything else from the match that you sense in a match like that that makes a difference?  
SAM QUERREY:   No, it's just a couple little things.   That first set maybe if I focus a little more on my serve and hold my serve.   
But that fifth set it's just little things here and there, you know, challenges that are in and out.   You know, I had the two double faults.   That hurt me.   You know, 30‑All looks and second serve and you kind of tell yourself to take a swing at this one.   
Right before you're like, Make it in, 30‑All, little tiny things here and there.  
   
 Q.   What are the one or two things that Brad brings to the game for you?  
SAM QUERREY:   I mean, a lot of what we do and work on is it's just bringing power and imposing yourself, big serves all the time.   Trying to hit big forehands all the time.   
You know, those are really the main two things we're working on, big serve, big forehand.  
   
 Q.   And you spoke about life in Dallas in Paris.   How are things going?  
SAM QUERREY:   Life in Dallas is good.   I moved there the beginning of April, and I'm living in a high rise with my girlfriend.   It's great.   I haven't been there too much because I have been gone.   So far I really enjoy it.   It's really a nice place.  
   
 Q.   Andy, after his match, which he lost, wouldn't answer really the question of whether he'll be back here.   What can you say he means to you personally and to American tennis?  
SAM QUERREY:   To me, I mean, he's probably the greatest kind of influence on me growing up.   He was the guy thatI know.   He's been our highest‑ranked American basically for ten years.   He was the guy when I, you know, had my first Davis Cup practice partner.   He was on the team when I was 17, 18.   He would, you know, let me come to Austin where he lived, you know, five, six, seven times and practice with him.   
So for me, he was, you know, he's been monumental in my kind of upbringing and watching him.   You know, he's so generous with letting me come to his house.   I know he's done that with tons of other guys, too.  
So, I mean, he's been great to me.   I mean, I think all the guys would say he's been a great leader for U.S. tennis, and, I mean, he's just an awesome guy.  
   
 Q.   The two guys moving on in the tournament, first Brian Baker, how would you describe your perspective on his story to be this far at this tournament?  
SAM QUERREY:   I'm really happy for him.   I mean, Brian is a great guy.   He deserves it.   He's had five miserable years with five different surgeries, and so I think he's 27.   
So, you know, he was great when he was 18.   So, you know, he really missed out on six years of his career.   I'm really happy for him that he's, you know, into the Round of 16.   I hope he can keep going.  
   
 Q.   Given the scare with Mardy just a short time ago, what are your thoughts on where he is right now?  
SAM QUERREY:   I'm glad he's back.   Seems like he's playing well.   He's into the fourth round here.   
I hope he just stays healthy and can have a couple more good years.  
   
 Q.   You have had your issues, too, for sure, things to come back from.   Are you feeling impatient for it to really break for you in a slam the way you'd like it to, or are you feeling relatively decent about the process and how it's going to go for you?  
SAM QUERREY:   I'm calm.   I'm feeling good.   This is a great tournament for me.  
I feel that match could have gone either way.   I could have been in the fourth round right now, which could have been really awesome.   In the Open this summer I feel like I'm going to do really well.   I feel like I'm going to be back up into the top 20 pretty soon.  
   
 Q.   Do you have anything before LA, or is that next up?  
SAM QUERREY:   I'm playing Newport ‑ starts in a week about‑ and World Team Tennis, five matches, then LA.  
   
 Q.   Fish and Baker together, their two stories, having their odds, how would you describe just the notion that both of them are in the Round of 16 here?  
SAM QUERREY:   It's great.   I mean, they're both playing awesome.   You know, sometimes, you know, with Baker, he has been gone.   He's going out there playing with no fear and doing his thing.   
Mardy, even though he's missed two months, he's just really good and talented.   He loves playing on grass.  
You know, I think he's just really comfortable out there.  
   
 Q.   Considering just the circumstances of the match and coming back from two sets down and the length of the match, does that feel like a corner turner for you?  
SAM QUERREY:   A little bit.   I mean, coming back from two sets down was great.   It's probably the first time I have done that.   And to have chances to win it, you know, I'm proud of myself for turning it around there.   
I mean, I'm bummed.   I'm sad.   But, you know, I'm sure tomorrow I'll, you know, be over it and really look back and say that was a great match and it's a good steppingstone for the summer.   
I'm looking forward to it.   I think I'm going to play really well.  
   
 Q.   Have you had another match which compares to this one?  
SAM QUERREY:   I had an 8‑6 in the here to Malisse in 2010.   6‑4 with Wawrinka at the Open, but nothing that long.   Not really.  
   
 Q.   I guess the thing is three or four years ago a match like you had tonight would have been the story of the tournament.   The way things are now...   
SAM QUERREY:   Just another match now, thanks to Isner‑Mahut.  
   
 Q.   Sort of strange in a way.   I mean, it's a mega match.   
SAM QUERREY:   They set the bar pretty high.   (Laughter.)  
I mean, it's going to be tough.   Even if it's, you know, 30‑28, you're a long way away.   
   
 Q.   What do you think is going to be the buzz factor?  
SAM QUERREY:   For?   
   
 Q.   55‑53, something like that?   
SAM QUERREY:   Once you get over ‑‑maybe if you get into the 20s, you know, that's maybe something.   Maybe if you go later on in the tournament.   
If a quarterfinal or semifinal or final goes past 10‑all, that's pretty incredible, too.  
   
 Q.   Rafa obviously suffered his huge loss the other day and Federer had a big scare.   Does that have any impact at all in the locker room at all?   Is there any reflection on it, any ripple, because the guys have been so dominant?  
SAM QUERREY:   A little bit.   It's just kind of shocking.   I think, you know, I don't think anyone wants to play Rafa first round at Cincinnati or Montreal.   
You know, it was a shocking match.   It was a bummer Rosol couldn't back it up today.   
Yeah, every now and then something like that happens, and you just hope that it's you who can kind of be on the other side of the net when it does.  
   
 Q.   When you're sort of getting deep in the fifth set and it's sort of uncharted territory for you, do you ever think of your fitness or how your shots are going to hold up or any questions?   Are you kind of amazing yourself by how well you're able to keep going?  
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, I wasn't ‑‑my legs ‑‑I was tired, but nothing was tightening up.   There was no cramps.   I feel like I was still getting a pretty good pop on my serve.   
Never really once thought about the fitness.   And, you know, even if we kept holding we probably had 15 minutes left, anyway.   Fitness wasn't really ‑‑it never really crossed my mind.   I knew even if something tightened up, we had 15 minutes left.   You know, I was going to get two days or a full day off.  
   
 Q.   Given that you four guys each won two matches and two of you guys have won a third, what do you think it says about the state of affairs now for the men and for America?  
SAM QUERREY:   I feel like we're playing well.   Andy, you know, won a tournament last week, so he's got to be feeling good.   Isner, you know, went out early here but, he's playing great this year.   Fish, Harrison are doing well.   
I think we're all heading in the right direction, and hopefully we can have a crop of guys in the top 25 by the end of the year.  
   
 Q.   There was a golden set today.   Did you hear about that?  
SAM QUERREY:   No.   Is that never losing a point?   Doubles, mixed doubles?   
   
 Q.   Shvedova against Errani had a golden set.   First set was 6‑Love.   
SAM QUERREY:   Never lost a point?   Amazing.   To me, that's almost as incredible as Isner/Mahut.   I think a couple of those in high school tennis.  
   
 Q.   You had a couple of those?  
SAM QUERREY:   The other guy didn't even play tennis, but...   (Laughter.)  
  
 Q.What high school?   
SAM QUERREY:   I can't even remember.   Sorry.   But especially in the third round, too.   
   
 Q.   Against a French Open finalist.   
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I mean, that's stunning.   I'm like speechless.   You think you could maybe understand first round maybe a local wildcard playing Sharapova, just really nervous or something like that.  
But in a third round, that's just shocking.   
   
 Q.   Never heard or no urban legends of any golden sets that you've heard of?  
SAM QUERREY:   No.   That's just...   
   
 Q.   Which do you think is a bigger stunner, Rosol versus Nadal or this one?  
SAM QUERREY:   Golden set.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT