AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 14, 2012
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. QUERREY/J. Benneteau
  6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Good memories coming back?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah, I love this tournament.   It's one of my favorites.   Always fun to play.   They've got sold‑out crowds Monday through Sunday on every court, which is pretty rare. 
I like to play on the grass.   This is probably the best grass court tournament there is.

Q.   Are you feeling your form is coming back on the grass and the injury behind you and the whole thing?
SAM QUERREY:   Yeah.   I'm feeling really good.   I have been feeling better every week this year, and my serve is feeling great.   I've only dropped serve once so far in three matches. 
Return game is feeling good.   Yeah, that's the first time I have won tree matches in a row in a while.   Just feeling really confident.

Q.   Back to the crowded courts and everything, there are very few places in the U.S. ‑ maybe US Open, maybe Miami, Indian Wells ‑ but a lot of our tournaments you see a lot of empty seats.   Is it kind of frustrating that when you go other places in the world they seem to be better or more consistent fans?
SAM QUERREY:   A little bit.   I mean, this is really the only tournament that is Monday through Sunday every match.   It's full.
If you go to the tournaments in Asia, they're not packed.   You know, some of the other 250s in Europe are good, but nothing like here.   But hopefully the ones in America can, you know, get some fans in there.

Q.   How tough was it to kind of have to almost start again after you had, you know, top 20, things were going along really well?
SAM QUERREY:   Really tough.   It's still tough.   You know, it takes a while.   You can't just have one good week and jump right back into the top 20.     Sometimes it could take a year. 
You know, Maria Sharapova I know is on a different scale, but it took her four years to get back to No. 1.   A lot of times it just takes time, and, you know, you've got to stay positive and keep working.   That's what I'm trying to do.

Q.   Are you patient by nature?
SAM QUERREY:   No, not really.   But I've got to do my best.   There's no way around it.   I feel if I keep playing well‑‑ I'm coming up to the point of the year now this is where I got hurt last year, didn't play Wimbledon, didn't play any of the tournaments during the summer, didn't play US Open, so this is ‑‑I feel like right now this is my time where I can make my jump back and get into the top 50 first and then from there move forward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT