BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2011
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. ROBREDO/S. Querrey
  6-1, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did you feel about the match?  
 SAM QUERREY: I don't think I played that well. Racquet didn't feel great today. Just couldn't get my rhythm. Couldn't really sink my teeth into it. I was trying -- couldn't quite get it going.  
  
  Q. Did you see that he was a little hobbled maybe towards the end of the second set there?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I saw that. That made it more frustrating. I wasn't winning the points, and he was limping at the end of some of them.  
  
  Q. How did you feel just when you got up this morning? Everything good?  
 SAM QUERREY: I felt good. I just -- I went out there. Serve wasn't feeling great. Things just weren't feeling that great out there.  
  
  Q. What did you expect from Tommy today, knowing he's an experienced player?  
 SAM QUERREY: You know, I knew he'd drop back on the serve make a lot of balls, make me earn a lot of the points. Just play like he did out there.   
  
  Q. It's not a bad result here, but, I mean, it's been a little bit of a frustrating start to the season for you. What, in your mind, is sort of holding you back from playing your best tennis at this point?  
 SAM QUERREY: I don't know. Ah, it's getting better, so I'm doing something right. I'm not really sure what else I need to do, but hopefully I'll keep improving.  
  
  Q. You have had some really great results at some of the smaller tour events, 250s and 500s. Do you think there is something holding you back from going really deep in a Masters or a Slam?  
 SAM QUERREY: Um, I mean, I don't know. Maybe. It's getting better with Wimbledon and US Open and now here and some of the bigger events, so...   
 I mean, hopefully I can keep on this pace a little bit and do better in these bigger ones.  
  
  Q. Are you frustrated at this point?  
 SAM QUERREY: I'm frustrated about today's match. The racquet felt just awful. You know, Tommy just makes a lot of balls and just makes you earn points, which is tough.  
 I'm not frustrated about how my year is going. I mean, I'm doing fine. I'm just more frustrated about the match today.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT