MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2011
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. DOLGOPOLOV/S. Querrey
  6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Your bad luck as a top seed continued today. What went wrong? 
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, the first match of the year, it was very windy out there. He's a tough guy to play in the wind. He's got a massive serve and kind of slices the ball around. 
 You know, not many guys play like him, so it's kind of tough to play against him just because you don't see that style of game too often.

 Q. How does that place you for the Aussie Open? Now what are you going to do?
 SAM QUERREY: I'm going to practice for five days. I was using half Lux, half gut out there today for my first time. I'm going back to all gut -- or all Lux now. That's what I used all last year, so that's -- I'm going to put that back on my racquet and just go practice for five days, or four days or whatever. 

 Q. A lot of the top guys play with that. Is that why you wanted to try it?
 SAM QUERREY: I've been trying to for the last month and it's been feeling good and I thought it would work. You know, I just wanted to -- you know, if I didn't use it in a match and try it out, I would have never known. 
 So, you know, it's something I wanted to try to see if I liked. I could play with it in practice all I want, but you never know until you're in a match.

 Q. Is that because of the humidity?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I think the gut flies a little bit. I want to be able to swing out, so I'm going to -- you know, I think all Lux and string it at a tighter tension is better.

 Q. Did you feel any more pressure or responsibility when you're a top seed? Does if affect the way you play, determination?
 SAM QUERREY: Um, no, not really. I didn't feel any extra pressure. I've been a top seed - you know, not one, but one, two, three -- a number of times. Some tournaments I've done really well; some I haven't. 
 I don't feel any extra pressure really. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT