U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2010
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. QUERREY/M. Granollers
  6-2, 6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. In the on-court interview afterwards, you said your arm felt loose on your serve. How did that affect your serve?
 SAM QUERREY: No. My serve, I was getting great pop. Every time I was hitting it flat down the T or out wide on the ad, it felt like it was somewhere between 135 and 140, so that's a little faster than normal. 

 Q. Did you catch any of the Harrison match?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I watched pretty much the entire fourth and fifth set. It was pretty exciting. I was in the lunchroom. Everyone had their eyes glued to the TV. 
 I felt bad for Ryan, but still a great tournament. I've been hitting with him for three or four years. He's going to be good.

 Q. When you see an up-and-coming kid make some way in the Open, does that harken you back to a time when you were in that position?
 SAM QUERREY: A little bit, yeah. I know what the feeling is like. At the same time it motivates me a little bit. I don't want him taking away the limelight. I want to go out there and play well. 
 Yeah, when you're 18, first Open, I mean, I remember when I was doing mine. It's exciting. Ryan played great. He should be really happy with qualifying, making the second round. 

 Q. Seeing that Roddick is out, it's just you and Isner and Mardy Fish, the American crew there. You're one of the top Americans left. Does it give you any extra push to say, I have to carry the mantle for the United States? 
 SAM QUERREY: I'm not feeling any pressure or anything. I think the four of us left are all doing our best. To have four guys in the round of 32, it's pretty good. 
 Hopefully we can have four in the Round of 16. I think we've got a great shot to do that. Hopefully they'll put some of us on center court. Not a huge fan of the scheduling this week (laughter). 

 Q. That is center court. 
 SAM QUERREY: We have a lot of Americans here. None of us play on center court. If you go to the French Open, they have Gasquet, Benneteau, Monfils; they're on center court every day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT