WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 16, 2010
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. QUERREY/P. Petzschner
  6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Did you feel as dominant as you looked out there today? 
 SAM QUERREY: Uh, yeah, felt great, especially on my serve. You know, he gave me a few errors in the first set there. Couple wind forehands, which, you know, I'll take it. 
 But, um, felt great.

 Q. Obviously fatigue from last night's late doubles match seemed to really impact your game a lot. 
 SAM QUERREY: (Smiling.) Yeah, it was nice to play third. I slept until 10:00, so... 

 Q. Are you going to watch the match that will determine your next opponent?
 SAM QUERREY: Nope. I'll look at the score, though. I think it's David Ferrer and...

 Q. Dolgopolov. 
 SAM QUERREY: Dolgopolov? Yeah, so Dolgopolov is playing well right now. Could be a tough one.

 Q. Talk your next match in regards to who you play. Ferrer you've played once; you beat him. You've never played Dolgopolov. Just talk about both people's games and how you match up. 
 SAM QUERREY: Um, yeah, Ferrer, I mean, great player. He's a typical kind of Spanish clay court guy but plays great on the hard court. Makes a lot of the balls, very fast, doesn't really give you too much to work with. I beat him one time in Auckland last year, but it was 7-5 in the third. You know, that'll be a tough one if I play him. 
 Dolgopolov, I've never really -- haven't watched him play too much, but I know he won some rounds at Wimbledon, you know, he won a couple rounds last week, I think. Had some good wins over Youzhny; lost a close one to Berdych. 
 So that match could go either way, I think.

 Q. You've won four 250s this year, yet you said you're really looking to concentrate on the larger tournaments. With respect to that, next year are you gonna look to defend those titles or take some rest and go for the larger ones?
 SAM QUERREY: Um, I'm not exactly sure. I'll definitely take a little more rest I think and try to focus more on the larger ones. 
 But a tournaments like L.A., you know, I'll definitely play that; Queen's I'll probably definitely play again. Memphis was a 500, by the way. I'll be back at that one. 
 But, yeah, probably a few less 250s next year.

 Q. In your match with Ferrer in Auckland, looked like your return game was off that day. You only 12% of your first serve points. 
 SAM QUERREY: What? I did. I won 12% on his first serve.

 Q. His first serve, right. On your returning game?
 SAM QUERREY: I mean, that was like 18 months ago. I don't really remember that. Hopefully it'll be different if I play him.

 Q. The reason I ask is that obviously you have to focus your return game with him. Does his serve give you problems?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I mean, I got to focus on my serve games like most importantly. And then, you know, hopefully if I get a roll on mine and start hold easily like I was today, then I can take a few more chances on the opponent's return, which I like to do. 
 You know, if I'm struggling to hold, then it puts a little bit more pressure on me to kind of just make returns in play. That's not what I want to do. I want to be aggressive and take a few more chances.

 Q. How difficult at this level is it to play someone that you've never played before if you end up playing Dolgopolov? 
 SAM QUERREY: Um, I kind of like it. It keeps things kind of new and interesting. It's always fun to play a new guy. 
 But, you know, I don't really care too much who wins. 

 Q. With an American falling out of the top 10 recently, how did you view that? Do you sort of the feel like, Hey, I'm a part of the future? I got to get us back there. What are you thoughts on that?
 SAM QUERREY: I don't feel any pressure or anything to, you know, climb to the top 10. Obviously I want to get there. I think John Isner does too, and Mardy and James and Andy obviously. You know, he just dropped to 11. I think if not after this week, I definitely think after the US Open Andy will be for sure back in the top 10. 
 You know, hopefully I can keep edging closer. I'm just going out there trying as hard as I can and doing my best. You know, hopefully we can get a group of three or four of us hovering around ten if we can. 

 Q. How many tournaments are you planning on playing doubles with John going forward?
 SAM QUERREY: Um, you know, we're playing this one; the US Open is a maybe; and then at the end of the year, we're signed up for four tournaments each in singles. You know, we're assuming we're gonna play all four. 
 But, you know, we were also planning on playing the French, Wimbledon, Washington, and Toronto, and we pulled out of all four of those. 
 So after this one, I would say anywhere between two and four.

 Q. You've had a lot of the real highs , but a couple of - like the French Open, the other side of it. Do you look back at that as a scheduling issue for you? 
 SAM QUERREY: A little bit. A little bit of a scheduling issue. Definitely as you watch my year next year, the scheduling is gonna be different from what it was this year. I think fewer tournaments and, you know -- yeah.

 Q. Do you get particularly angry when things aren't going right?
 SAM QUERREY: Sometimes. I try not to. I mean, I haven't since the French Open really.

 Q. It seems like the topic of the future of American tennis is always a topic, influx and transition. Do you almost feel like it's almost unfair that people are waiting for the next Agassi, Sampras? What are your thoughts on that whole thing?
 SAM QUERREY: A little bit. You know, the guy -- you know, even going further back to McEnroe and Connor, the American tennis players set the bar and standard pretty high for us. This is the first time we haven't had an American in the top 10 in 30 years or whatever.
 But, you know, if you look at all sports, whether it's team or individual, you've kind of got waves that go up and down. The Lakers will dominate and then they'll have a few years they won't go to the playoffs and they'll come back.
 So hopefully we're just in one of those little spurts of a few years. We're down, but hopefully we can come back up and get some guys into the top 10. Hopefully people can be patient and know that we're trying hard. 

 Q. Has there been any thought that and you John might eventually replace the Bryan brothers, like especially in Davis Cup in doubles. What are your thoughts on that?
 SAM QUERREY: Not right now. They're our Davis Cup doubles team. You know, if they retire or if they don't want to play anymore and Patrick wants John and I to step in, we're ready for it, and, you know, we'll take the challenge. 
 But right now, you know, it's the Bryans until they don't want it anymore or Patrick feels that they somehow don't deserve it. But... (smiling.) 

 Q. I heard you had a lot of your family members with you in England, and obviously you won Queen's and then carried that into Wimbledon. Are you looking to duplicate that again next year, or maybe a big Australian trip with the family? It seemed to do you a lot of good. 
 SAM QUERREY: Uh, yeah, I'm sure in Australia my parents are gonna come this year. In New York this year a bunch of friends and family are coming. And, you know, hopefully in London next year a big group will come again. It's nice to have them all there. It's always more fun to play when you've got a big support staff there.
 Part of it too is if you bring everyone over -- and my coach, David, was telling me this. If you bring everyone over and you rent the house for a month, you want to do well. You put a little more expectations on yourself to do well. 
 So I think that little bit of extra pressure might have helped. 

 Q. In your match with Petzschner today, the first time you played him last year in Montreal you lost. What do you did differently today? You mentioned serve. Is there anything else? 
 SAM QUERREY: Um, last year when I played him in Montreal I was a little tired. Kind of a little bit of a scheduling error, because after Wimbledon I did Newport, L.A., D.C. World TeamTennis, and there I was a little tired were. 
 But, you know, I thought I served much better this time. You know, he gave me a bunch of free points in the first set, which unfortunately for him was fortunate for me.
 You know, I just thought I kind of competed a little better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT