WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2010
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/S. Querrey
  7-5, 6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Just talk about the match. What was the difference out there?  
 SAM QUERREY: Just you know, need to execute a little better. I thought I had a good game plan. I was trying to be aggressive and, you know, I didn't want to play cat and mouse with him from the baseline.   
 In the first set at 5-All, 30-40, I had a look at a short forehand that I just missed a little wide. You know, that third set he played a great game to break me at 4-All. He hit some great shots.   
 So just a couple little things here and there, but I had a good game plan. I just need to execute it a little better. Maybe make one or two volleys, and I'm right there.  
  
  Q. How is his level? I mean, you've obviously played a lot of good matches on grass. He hasn't lost a set yet in the tournament. Is he playing that well?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, he's playing at a very high level. He's hitting his backhand well. He hits the passing shots as good as anyone. So he's a tough guy to play. Makes a lot of returns.   
  
  Q. What was it like out there, the atmosphere playing Murray, Centre Court, Wimbledon?  
 SAM QUERREY: I mean, it's great. It's fun. You got to -- you know, I had to hit a special shot to make a few people to clap for me. It's understandable. It was fun out there. You know, he played great.   
 You know, fans are excited, especially now that the soccer is done. Now they're kind of -- he's kind of their hope for the next few weeks, or the next week now.   
 So I had a good time out there.   
  
  Q. You've probably been asked this, but what did you learn from this match?  
 SAM QUERREY: Like I said earlier, execution needs to be a little sharper, especially when you're playing the guys who are top 5, top 10 in the world.   
 I had a couple chances in the first set where I missed a the forehand wide on breakpoint. Couple volleys up close to the net that I need to, you know, put away.   
 It's just tighten up those little things, and that's all the difference.  
  
  Q. Was there any fatigue issue given how much you've played on the grass?  
 SAM QUERREY: Um, no. I felt great. I've been taking care of my body and I've been hydrating well. I felt fine out there.  
  
  Q. What are the conditions like on the court? Is it pretty fast? It's been hot and dry the last week.   
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, feels pretty fast. You know, feels like is try grass court. You get rewarded for your wide serve. The slice stays low. If you pound the ball through the court, it really takes off.   
 You know, might be a little -- probably a little firmer than the last few years because of the dry heat. But, you know, I like that.  
  
  Q. What about the footing? Is it grippy or slicker?  
 SAM QUERREY: Footing, I mean, I can't notice a difference between the last few years with the footing. Feels fine out there. On the baseline it's mostly just running around on dirt. The grass court shoes help a lot.  
 My footing feels fine.  
  
  Q. How does it compare with Queen's.   
 SAM QUERREY: I think I they're very similar. I can't notice too much of a difference.   
  
  Q. What's next?   
 SAM QUERREY: Going home tomorrow, and then I'll be playing in Newport. Grass court season is not over for me.   
  
  Q. Are you feeling any sympathy for Murray given what the expectations are around him here? And how do you feel about the way he seems to actually step up and do well here even though he hasn't won yet?   
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I mean, I think he's got a lot of pressure on himself. I'm sure he expects a lot from himself. The fans and the crowd expect him to win every tournament he plays in, so, I mean, probably feels a lot of the pressure from them.   
 But kudos to him for stepping up and winning Queen's last year; making a semifinal here; he's now back in a quarterfinal. So he steps up to the pressure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT