WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2010
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/S. Stakhovsky
  7-6, 6-3, 2-1 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Just doing a little aside of Wimbledon. Getting to know the players. Can you tell me where you're staying while you're here at Wimbledon?  
 SAM QUERREY: I'm staying in the Village in a house with my mom, my dad, my sister, her two friends, my friend, and my coach.   
  
  Q. Do you prefer to stay in a house to hotels?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Always having your family around?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, it's really nice.   
  
  Q. So while you're in London, is there anything that you always make sure that you do while you're here?  
 SAM QUERREY: No. There's no like traditions or anything. I'll go into the city a couple times for dinner. If my mom drags me to some historical monument I'll go so she's happy.  
  
  Q. Is there anything you want to do while you're here this time round?  
 SAM QUERREY: Nothing special I can think of.   
  
  Q. Who cooks?  
 SAM QUERREY: Either my mom, my dad or my coach, David. My sister will do some stuff, too.  
  
  Q. You rotate?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah. We all kind of help out.  
  
  Q. What was the best and worst thing about the Wimbledon tournament? And you can't say the weather.   
 SAM QUERREY: The worst thing? Um, three out of five sets you got to play in doubles.  
  
  Q. The best thing?  
 SAM QUERREY: The best thing is just being a part of the tournament, because it's probably the most prestigious tournaments in the world. Just walking out onto one of the courts is pretty special.  
  
  Q. Do you have any tennis nightmares?  
 SAM QUERREY: No.  
  
  Q. Any nicknames?  
 SAM QUERREY: No. Usually someone will call me Q or something like that.  
  
  Q. What?  
 SAM QUERREY: Q, for my last name, but nothing...   
  
  Q. Okay. Have you been following the World Cup?  
 SAM QUERREY: A little bit. I mean, I follow the USA and England because they're in the same bracket. Looking forward to the game tomorrow. Hopefully USA wins it, but once they're out of it I probably won't watch a game.  
  
  Q. Any predictions on who will win?  
 SAM QUERREY: I don't know enough to put out a reasonable prediction.  
  
  Q. Given a choice, a book, film, or Nintendo, how would you fill your free time?   
 SAM QUERREY: A book or movie. Probably movie more often. I don't really play Nintendo. Haven't really played in probably ten years. Kind of stopped after Super Nintendo.   
  
  Q. You said back in Paris after you lost to Robby that you hadn't been playing professionally for a while. I think you were a bit dejected and so on. How do feel now? Have you turned it around?   
 SAM QUERREY: I feel great now, yeah. Took some days off. You know, at Queen's, the only thing I was basically focusing on was being positive and really just giving 100% on every single point. It was a good week for me.   
 That's all I was focusing on today. That's my goal for this Wimbledon: just to be positive; shoulders back; after the point, win or lose, those first few seconds, don't -- only show positive emotion if you're gonna show emotion; just go out there and have fun.   
  
  Q. Was that your idea or some people you talked to?  
 SAM QUERREY: It was a few people's idea. Mainly my coach, David. Him and I both talked about it. My dad as well. But mainly David.   
  
  Q. So when you're feeling negative emotion inside you, what do you do? Just try to swallow it?  
 SAM QUERREY: I try to. That's what I struggle with the most. When I get down on myself or I'm being negative, I have a really tough time bringing myself back up to a level state of mind or a positive attitude.   
 So I'm trying to never get myself to that point. Basically can't bring myself back up to where I want to be.  
  
  Q. You've never been much of a racquet tosser, though. Have you ever thought about just letting the anger out rather than just...   
 SAM QUERREY: I have actually. I mean, my coach, David, said, If you're gonna get angry, yell something out and smash the racquet and move on to the next point. Don't carry it with you.   
 If it comes to that point, I'm probably just gonna do that.  
  
  Q. Do you do that in practice at all?   
 SAM QUERREY: Occasionally in practice. I mean, I guess if you take this year, probably broken like two or three in practice. But not really, no.  
  
  Q. Did it feel good?   
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I mean, I can't really remember the specific moments. Yeah, sometimes it just needs to be done.  
  
  Q. You see lots of the teams these days use sports psychologist and stuff. You ever think about going that route?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, sometimes. I've thought about talking to guys about that stuff.   
  
  Q. So what Laker games have you been to? I know you were saying on a conference call...   
 SAM QUERREY: I went to Game 5 against the Suns where Artest hit that shot. It was probably the best Lakers game I've ever been to.   
 Then I went to Game 1 of the Lakers/Celtics, which was pretty good, too.  
  
  Q. So when you watch, other than just enjoying it, do you watch them from a professional standpoint, saying, This is how Kobe goes about his business, make I can take something from it?  
 SAM QUERREY: You know, I don't. But now that I bring that up, it's kind of a good point. You know, one professional athlete to another one. I could do that next time. Probably a good guy to watch.   
  
  Q. Probably ruin it for you now.   
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah. I'll be analyzing Kobe.  
  
  Q. You watch the parade online or anything?  
 SAM QUERREY: No, I mean, I didn't even watch a game while I was over here. I like the Lakers and stuff, but I'm not gonna stay up at 2:00 a.m. and get the feed online or anything like that.   
 I'll just read about it in the morning.  
  
  Q. How much different is it being in England with the English mindset than other places in Europe, like the French and just feeling comfortable?  
 SAM QUERREY: I mean, it's much nicer. It's still Europe, but I'm much more comfortable and happy over here compared to Rome, Madrid, France, Düsseldorf. All those other cities.   
 I like those cities a lot, but it's a little nicer over here, especially Wimbledon because you can stay -- I'm in a house for three weeks. You have a family room you can lounge in.   
 You know, everyone who I said is with me: parents, friends. So it's much more enjoyable.   
  
  Q. Did they come over with you before to England?  
 SAM QUERREY: Have they or will they?   
  
  Q. Yeah, have they?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, my mom and dad have come every year; my sister has come a few times. There's been a different friend here.   
 They were all at Queen's for the full week, so they're here to support.  
  
  Q. Whatever happened to your personal assistant?   
 SAM QUERREY: It was an intern. (Laughing.) It was more something for fun. He wanted to do it because he wants to be a sports agent.   
 But he's getting ready to start law school at Vandebilt Law next month.   
  
  Q. He moved up.   
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah. Had at the write him a letter of recommendation.  
  
  Q. Did you really? Did it help, or you have no idea?  
 SAM QUERREY: I have no idea. I'd like to think so. Actually had him write it.  
  
  Q. What's the difference between the grass here and the grass at Queen's?  
 SAM QUERREY: Um, I can't notice a huge difference. It might be a little harder here. The ball might bounce up a little bit more.   
 But I think they're pretty similar.  
  
  Q. What's been your evolution in terms of getting used to grass?   
 SAM QUERREY: You know, it's basically the only time I've played on it is Queen's, Eastbourne, Nottingham, here for the last four years. I've just become more comfortable on it every year. The movement is tough. You know, you ask anyone. The first year they play on grass, I think they really struggle with the movement.  
 But it's just more time spent on it. Now I've spent four, five months of my life on it rather than one. I think on grass, the only way you're gonna get better is playing on it and time spent on it.  
  
  Q. Have you ever hit with Pete?  
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, a lot. The never on grass, though. We could at Sherwood, but the grass at Sherwood is so soft you can't really have a point there. We just mainly hit on hardcourt.  
  
  Q. And he never gave you any advice on grass?  
 SAM QUERREY: No. I mean, not really.  
  
  Q. Do you ever see yourself serving and volleying consistently on grass?  
 SAM QUERREY: No.  
  
  Q. Why?   
 SAM QUERREY: I think guys return too well these days, and I'm not confident enough at the net to do that.   
 Those are the two main reasons.  
  
  Q. But in doubles I would think you feel like you can get up there a bit, huh?   
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah. Although if you watch John and I play doubles, I serve and volley probably half the time on the first serve and never on the second serve.  
 The grass might be a little different. I'll probably serve and volley every first serve and maybe half the second serves.   
 But I'm still just more confident hitting a serve and trying to move around and rip a forehand.   
  
  Q. When you hit with Pete, is it usually at his place?  
 SAM QUERREY: It has been pretty much every time, except for once he came to my house.  
  
  Q. When you play him at his house, did you kind of feel guilt if you beat him?  
 SAM QUERREY: No, not at all. We usually go out and play a couple sets. It's close. It's pretty fun. He's got music playing while we hit. No one cares who wins.  
  
  Q. Have you gone to any the basketball games with any of those guys?  
 SAM QUERREY: Never. I'm still waiting for that invite. (Laughing.)   
  
  Q. He doesn't trust your game?  
 SAM QUERREY: I guess not.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT