AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 13, 2010
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/M. Fish
      7-6, 7-5 
  
     THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Is that the biggest trophy you've ever won?  
     SAM QUERREY: Yeah. Not the heaviest, though. The trophy in Serbia, I couldn't lift it over my head.  
  
  Q. Tough match, wasn't it?  
     SAM QUERREY: Very tough. You know, I think the finals are always tough. It's pretty rare you'll see both guys play at their best in the final of any sport.   
     The conditions were pretty tough out there, the windiest day of the week so far. I just tried to stay level-headed and keep my composure, and fortunately I got through it.  
  
  Q. You've won three titles on three different surfaces. Your football team did pretty well last night.   
     SAM QUERREY: It's my soccer team. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Wimbledon finals on the 4th of July this year. Do you think it could be America's year?  
     SAM QUERREY: I mean, I hope so. You know, I'm gonna do the best I can at Wimbledon. I know Mardy is, Andy is, Isner is. Hopefully we can all make a run. Maybe that's a good omen that the final is on the 4th of July. Hopefully our football team can make a run at the World Cup.   
  
  Q. You watched it last night?   
     SAM QUERREY: I watched the game last night, yeah.   
  
  Q. Did you watch it with Mardy?   
     SAM QUERREY: No, but I watched it with my family and some friends that were over.  
  
  Q. Did you prepare for the match today with Mardy?  
     SAM QUERREY: Did I prepare with him? What do you mean?   
  
  Q. Warming up.   
     SAM QUERREY: No. We have the same coach, but Mardy hit with him, and then I went on the court right afterwards and hit with him. We joked around before the match.  
  
  Q. Start of the week looking ahead, very strong field here. Realistically what was your goal? How far did you see yourself going here?  
     SAM QUERREY: I didn't set a, like a round, quarters, or semis or anything like that. I just wanted to go out there and play with a good attitude and play level-headed and work on hitting my forehand inside out more than inside in, which I did a great job of all week.   
     I just really wanted to focus on my service games the whole week, which I did a great job of. I think I only lost serve maybe like three times this week. I was more worried about my attitude and the way I played rather than how far I got in the tournament.  
  
  Q. A win like this must give you a lot of confidence giving to Wimbledon?  
     SAM QUERREY: Definitely. You know, I'm playing great on the grass, and now I've got a week to practice and regroup. Then I'm looking forward to Wimbledon next Monday.  
  
  Q. Is Wimbledon sort of forming as a possibility in your mind? Do you see yourself as a future Wimbledon champion now?  
     SAM QUERREY: I mean, I'd love to win Wimbledon. I'm kind of going with baby steps here and try and make the third round this year, because the second round is the best I've ever done there.  
     You know, it's possible, but I think I've still got some work to do, and there's still some great competitors out there you have to beat to win a Wimbledon title.  
  
  Q. What do players think of Federer losing today in Germany? Does that perhaps give you hope or do you think that's maybe just a blip?  
     SAM QUERREY: Not really. I mean, he's still Roger Federer. He's lost early -- he's lost matches before and come back the next week and gone on to win events plenty of times in his career.   
     I think guys are still gonna fear him. He's still the most feared player at Wimbledon even though he lost today to Lleyton.  
     Maybe he's lost a little bit of his game, but he's still -- he's still, you know, the greatest player ever and the defending Wimbledon champion and the guy that -- you know, I definitely am gonna fear him more than any player.  
  
  Q. If there is one area of your game that you think you can improve on, what would it be, do you think?  
     SAM QUERREY: I think my return of serve can get much better, because my service games -- I hold serve most of the time. I think I lost serve, like I said, three or four times this week, so that allows me on the return games to take more chances. I think I need to start doing that, especially on the second serves.  
     I think I could step up in the court in front of the baseline, take some swings at the ball. Even if you fly it 10 feet long, it's still -- you still let the opponent know, hey, I'm gonna take some cuts out there. You know, I think it will -- it will intimidate the opponent a little bit.  
  
  Q. What's your ultimate ambition in sports? What are you capable of by the end of your career?  
     SAM QUERREY: That's a good question.   
     I mean, I don't really know. I'd like to go out there, and, you know, just have a positive attitude when I go out there and give 100% every time I step on the court, whether it's practice or a tournament and give it your all, and then whatever happens happens, you know. That way if you go out there and do that, you'll play with no regrets.  
     Whether you finish 1 in the world with 25 Grand Slams or you finish -- you know, or your career high ranking is 20 in the world and you've won a couple 250s, you just know you've left it all out there and you have no regrets and you can't be disappointed.  
  
  Q. There are some very famous names on that trophy: Sampras, McEnroe. How does it feel your name is going to be up there?  
     SAM QUERREY: It's an honor. All the greatest players in the world are on this trophy. It's nice to be added to that list with them.  
  
  Q. If you could win one Grand Slam, which one would it be?  
     SAM QUERREY: I mean, probably the US Open would be my first choice and then Wimbledon. A very, very tight second, though. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. What's Wimbledon mean to you?  
     SAM QUERREY: I mean, it's one of the four most important tournaments in the world. You know, the Wimbledon trophy has these same names on it, and all the greats have won Wimbledon.   
     It would be -- you know, it's an honor just to step on the grounds of Wimbledon. I remember the first time I was there. I was just in awe for the first week basically, and it's exciting to go out there. Last year I played my first match on Centre Court, which is exciting, and hopefully there will be many more Centre Court matches to come.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT