BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2010
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. QUERREY/J. Chardy
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. I thought you really took care of your serve very well today. Can you talk about that, and also playing John in the next round?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I thought I served very well today, but I actually thought I returned even better. Chardy's got a big serve, and I thought I did a good job putting a lot of balls in play, especially putting the ball deep where he was on the defensive after his serve. 
 Playing John tomorrow? I mean, we hadn't played up until Memphis. Like, you know, we've been best buddies on the tour and went like three years without playing, so finally it happened a couple weeks ago.
 You know, we're going to play Monday. You know, I'm sure this is the second time of many, many occasions, so it's just something you have to deal with it. It's kind of a bummer because I want him to do well, I want myself to do well. One of us is going to be knocked out, but it's just the way it goes.

 Q. I watched you practicing with Blake. Have you practiced with him at all since Davis Cup, with Isner at all?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, we hit yesterday. Yeah, we hit yesterday and played doubles last night.

 Q. When you played him, it was indoors last time, and this court everyone is saying is playing a little bit slower. Will that help either one of you, you think, the conditions here? 
 SAM QUERREY: You know, I don't know. If you hit a serve 130 indoor on clay, outdoor -- you know, 130 on a slow court is still 130 on a fast court, so I don't think it's going to make that big of a difference. 
 Playing here and Memphis, it's not too different, I don't think. 

 Q. The transition coming from clay indoors to here outdoors, what's that been like for you? Doesn't seem like it phased you that much. 
 SAM QUERREY: No, I mean, the first couple of days I was struggling, though. First day I got here I took my racquet out of my bag and it felt like a feather for some reason. The next day it was back to normal. 
 You know, but the first two days it took me a while to get my timing. But then after a day or two of just kind of rallying and getting my groove back, it's been fine since then.

 Q. Do you guys have any plans to play doubles going forward, you know, from here on out?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, John and I are going to play the entire year together. You know, the occasional tournament. We're going to have conflicting schedules, but we're going to play every major event.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT