U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2009
Sam Querrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. SODERLING/S. Querrey
  6-2, 7-5, 6-7, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Sluggish start. Thoughts overall?
 SAM QUERREY: Wasn't the greatest start. He played well, though. Never hit the serve under 130. Amazing backhand. Flat backhand up the line. Played well. 
 I was happy, though, after I went down two sets to love, coming back and taking that third set there. 

 Q. I know it's a bad day right now, but do you feel the ascension of your game continued in this Open?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I didn't really feel great all three matches. Still felt pretty good. You know, I guess you look at the summer as a whole, it was pretty good. 

 Q. He's obviously a very good player. Anything in particular about his game that you can't quite put your finger on?
 SAM QUERREY: Serve and the flat backhand up the line. Those are just two weapons. The backhand especially. Not many guys hit it like that.

 Q. The flatness?
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah. Kind of steps into it. He can take it cross-court, too. But particularly up the line. 

 Q. Overly technical, but when you played Nadal here last year, after the first set, you flattened out your forehand. That's when you started beating him at that point. Soderling beat him with the flat ball. Do you think we'll have more flat shots on the tour?
 SAM QUERREY: Maybe. I mean, I really don't even know. 

 Q. Anything wrong with your racquets? 
 SAM QUERREY: I was struggling with the tensions. I couldn't really find a comfortable tension out there. I don't know what it was. It's been like that the whole week. 

 Q. Is that atypical for you?
 SAM QUERREY: No. I never had a problem the entire summer. I was struggling all three matches with racquet tensions. 

 Q. What were your thoughts going into the third set tiebreaker? 
 SAM QUERREY: Yeah, I mean, that was it. No one even had a shot really until I had that one point where I threw up a lob and got a good whack at a forehand. Other than that, it was just big serves and big first shots.

 Q. The fourth set?
 SAM QUERREY: Fourth set, I played a sloppy game, the second game. I had five breakpoints at 3-1. Made all five first serves, which is too good. A couple I made in, he ripped a ball after that. Broke me the next game. I mean, hit like three winners that game. 

 Q. Did you watch Taylor Dent last night? 
 SAM QUERREY: Huh-uh. Heard about it, though. 

 Q. Talking about cheering for some of the other Americans. You have to feel pretty good seeing him?
 SAM QUERREY: That's awesome. I was happy to hear that. Loving that in the fifth set. Must have been pretty exciting. Hopefully he can keep that run going.

 Q. Did you see he grabbed the microphone from the chair umpire?
 SAM QUERREY: That's what I heard. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT