UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 27, 2012
Adrian Phillips
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Adrian Phillips. 

Q. Doesn't sound like the defense has created turnovers‑‑
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: We have been working on turnovers a lot this camp and our offense has been doing a really good job of keeping the ball secure and making it hard for us. I mean, we had our days where we got some turnovers and their offense had some days where they did a good job. We are both working on it and when the season comes, we are going to have to turn it up a little more. 

Q. How excited are you to go against somebody else?
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: It's been a long time, since January. I know this Saturday, I can't wait. I know the team is excited and when we hit the field we are going to be energized and we are going be to ready to play.   It's kind of like a controlled energy. You still have other stuff to worry about and you still have three days of practice. We just have to make sure we don't burn ourselves by Saturday, so just get to bed on time and do what we need to do. 

Q. How does a defensive back‑‑
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: I feel like if we do what we need to do, it's going to be real hard for offenses to throw the ball over our head. We have corners that will make plays and safe ties that will come in and block you and hit you and all of us will cover. If we do what we can do and have our key strength, it will be hard for offenses.

Q. Sounds like Wyoming is in trouble. 
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: Yeah. (Laughter).

Q. Do though pose a threat?
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: I mean, every team poses a threat. We can't sleep on everybody. Wyoming had a camp just like we had a camp and their focus was getting better each week. This is the first week so, they are going to come out and see what they have. 

Q. How do you like spending‑‑
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: That's the way I get energized. That's the way I get into the game so. When I'm out in the field talking, that means I'm locked in. 

Q. Are you‑‑
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: No, I just like to talk. 

Q. Who did you like growing up? Who did you admire in the NFL? 
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: I got a lot of love for Ed Reed. He's a real smart player, not just the physical aspect of the game. I heard he's in the locker room, he's in the video room all the time watching film. So I just really admired him because that's what I do. 

Q. Inaudible. 
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: I learned confidence and I learned how to lead from Blake. Blake was a great leader. He taught me everything that I needed to know. He knew anything about the defense; any question that you had for him, he knew it. I just put that upon myself saying that I want to do the same thing, and that's the role I'm taking on now. 

Q. So far, this team has lived to up R.I.S.E. and that swagger? 
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: So far I think we have. The first real test is going to be Saturday when we play Wyoming, so I think we had a real good camp, and this Saturday, Wyoming is going to come out and try to hit us in the mouth and then we are really going to see what we are made of. 

Q. Can you believe coach is 61?
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: I can that. He's still young. He still has a lot of years kicking in him, but I believe believe that. 

Q. Will you give him a birthday cake, a cupcake, something like that? 
ADRIAN PHILLIPS: We'll find something to give him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT