KIA CLASSIC
March 31, 2019
Gaby Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tough finish at 18, but a great round otherwise.  What do you take away from the round?
GABY LOPEZ: You know, it was a tough round for me the beginning and the end of course, but, you know, just proving myself that I'm really actually getting comfortable in the leading groups.  Being up there, seeing my name, kind of motivates me.
Q. Talk about the eagle.  What distance did you have?  What club?
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah, I was in the rough; it was a downhill lie and I had to be careful just because you have water on the back side of the green.
We talked about where to hit it, and my caddie said, I think you should hit it just before the green, short of the green.  I mean, I did it, and as soon as I saw the ball kind of rolling in...
Q. Such a tough green, isn't?
GABY LOPEZ: Yep.
Q. Slopes so much.
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah, and the greens were a little tricky today just because they were a little bumpy.  It's part of the poana greens, and I think it's the beauty of this golf course.  You never know.  You hit a great putt and you got to have a good break and good attitude to make that happen.
Q. When you make the eagle, had you been thinking about the leaderboard much before that?  Did you start thinking about the leaderboard more?
GABY LOPEZ: No.  I mean, I was just trying to be in the process.  The process takes care of the result.  It wasn't meant to be to me, but I'm happy to put myself in contention.
Q. What did you have in on 18 as far as yardage?
GABY LOPEZ: 147 and hit a little 8.  Didn't cut that much, yeah.
Q. 147 in, that's good yardage, right?
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah, 5-wood off the tee.  Hit it a little longer than...
Q. Yeah, that's nice.
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah, that's always nice.  Yeah, having an 8 into 18 is always a good thing.
Q. Tough pin though.
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah.  The green slopes right to left; the pin is on the right, so get it close it's a little tough, but I'm just happy and proud to how patient I stayed out there.
I played the front nine even par and I knew I had -- I love the back nine.  There were some great shots that I hit out there and they were rewarded.
Q. Have you played with Nasa much?
GABY LOPEZ: I haven't played with Nasa.  One time in Arkansas.  She's a great player.  I think the best she has is her attitude and how much she believes in her.  That's pretty awesome.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT