KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2019
Gaby Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Awesome round today.
GABY LOPEZ: Thank you.
Q. How do you feel about it?  What was working well for you?
GABY LOPEZ: I guess just ball hitting was pretty solid off the tee.  I guess that's the key here, just to find the ball in the fairway as much as you can.
The rough is a little thick, so the more chances you get for birdie from the fairway, that's I think the key here.  I think getting the speed of the greens also.  The greens are pretty big, so if you sometimes don't hit it pretty close, that's when it's going to get you.  Keep moving.
Q. Yeah, I heard the greens are tricky out there.
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah.  I grew up in poana greens and this is just the type of golf course that I love.  This is exactly what I like.  Last week's was a little bit hard for me, but this golf course feels like home just playing the same grass as home.
Q. How much of that did you draw from experience today or was it just being able to come in with confidence?
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah, no, I guess it's a combination between confidence and doing the right things, little things right.  Especially like if I've made mistakes here and this time it's like, Okay, this time I'm not going to do the same mistake.  I'm going to be smart and do this play.  Sometimes in other maybe past years I would have gone for the green in two on No. 8 or something like that.  Just trusting that your wedges are good enough.  Just giving yourself as much opportunities as you can.
Q. How much of the confidence of your last season win are you bringing into this year and forming new goals?
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah, for sure a lot.  Yeah, I think once you kind of break that limit that we all sometimes put in, it just becomes much easier, just playing free golf.
I guess the first win is proving yourself that you can do it.  Your mind sometimes says you can't.  It's a tricky position we sometimes play.  We all have these doubts and we all have these moments of oh, I can't do it.
But I think it's just a matter of being committed and just doing it.  Even the odds are against you, you'll see yourself sometimes breakthrough many times.
Q. Have you talked much to Alana?
GABY LOPEZ: Yes.
Q. This is her home course.
GABY LOPEZ: Oh, for sure.  We play for two and a half years together and she's an awesome kid.  She's a great kid.  She has no fear.  That's I think what I love about her.  She has no fear.  She's very determined when she has to be.  If she finds herself up on the leaderboard she's not going to be afraid.  That's what I like about her.
Q. Did she ask you for any advice?
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah.  Yes, we been talking the last couple weeks.  I talked to her right when she won a Symetra event, and I was telling her how proud I was of her.  College golf was a big step for her, just getting to know herself a little bit better, but now she won her first professional tournament.  That says a lot about her personality and how fearless she is.  That's I think the biggest advantage she has.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT