BLUE BAY LPGA
November 10, 2018
Gaby Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Must be something very, very memorable, as you mentioned the whole journey of this year and now to win here in Blue Bay and this area particularly.  You had a birthday celebration yesterday; hole-in-one.  Couldn't be better really.  How would you summarize the whole trip?
GABY LOPEZ: For sure it's been a tough year firstly because I got an injury at the beginning of the year that took me out of play for about six weeks.
It wasn't fun.  I thought that this day actually was going to come a long time from now.  It's been so great.  So special to the course with No. 1 and No. 2 players in the world.
I think I'm speechless.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. (Through translation.)  From the stats we got in the past you couldn't have possibly finished even within the Top 5.  Obviously this year with this gigantic leap right here, what happened?  What kind of adjustment did you make to make it happen?
GABY LOPEZ: You know, I been working really hard the last couple years I guess just staying very aware of what I've been learning, very aware of what I've been doing with my mind, with my body, and I guess the sum of a lot of the things, little things that make the big picture.
I couldn't have done it without the help of my team, my caddie, my coach, my family, my friends, my boyfriend, everyone that's been supporting me.  I couldn't have done with without their help.
Q. (Through translation.)  No. 16 today, how far and what club did you use?  And that birdie you caught was the turning point, if you will, of today's situation, would you say so?
GABY LOPEZ: I would say so, yes.  I think we had 144 yards to the pin and the wind of the a little left to right.  I made a perfect 9-iron and stick it to six inches maybe.
As soon as I hit it my caddie goes, That's the perfect shot you've hit all day.
Q. (Through translation.)  We understand you grandfather passed away.  Could you describe a little bit about your relationship between you and your grandfather?  Would you say he was right up there helping you and bringing luck to you?
GABY LOPEZ: Yes, my grandfather, Jose Lopez, the thing he liked most was golf.  Being his first grandchild, just very, very special to, I don't know, I guess give this to him, you know.
I think I'm speechless because he's been with me all week for sure.  I wanted to give this to him whenever I have a chance, but I'm just really, really happy that he was with me all week.
Q. (Through translation.)  Back to your grandfather.  How much did he influence you?  Did he take you to the game of golf?
GABY LOPEZ: Yes, my grandfather introduced my dad to the game of golf and my dad introduced me to the game of golf.
So his first passion was golf, and we had a very, very special relationship.  I always said that he was one of my top 2 favorite people in this world.
You know, the moment that he passed away of course I was very, very devastated and I was very sad, but I am just very, very happy that now he can see this from up there.
Q. (Through translation.)  Second question is about Ochoa's influence.
GABY LOPEZ: Yes, Lorena has been my mentor every since I turned pro.  You know, she's been my inspiration for my whole life.  I'm just very, very happy that I'm getting another win for Mexico.  That's why I wear green, white, and red on Sundays, because I've been dreaming of this moment my whole life.
Representing Mexico, it's probably the biggest honor.
Q. (Through translation.)  Two questions.  One is about your boyfriend.  Any plan down the line between the two of you?  And secondly, you won a hole in one, meaning you got five nights here free at the Westin Hotel.  How do you plan to do that?
GABY LOPEZ: My boyfriend and I don't have anything planned yet.  We're just, you know, living in the moment.  It's been a great relationship.  He's been great to me.  He's kept me on the line with my feet on the ground and always pushing myself.
The five nights, I actually would love to bring my family here next year.  I would love to show them where was my first win and share this place and hopefully one day again this moment.
Q. (Through translation.)  What about the working relationship between you and your caddie.  How long have you been working together and also perhaps let us know about any sort of information about the two of you.
GABY LOPEZ: Yes, Alvaro and I have worked together since April from this year, so it's not even been a year.  It's been a couple months.
Ever since we started working it was chemistry and he made my game easy.  He simpled everything.  He's always taught me to make things smaller and not complicated.
So I'm just very, very thankful that he's been a huge support, especially today.  He shared with me my first win, and that's probably one of the most important moments in my career.
Q. Was he a professional as well?
GABY LOPEZ: Yes, he's a professional.  Alvaro is a professional in Spain.  He's been coaching different kids out there and some other pros, so he's done a great job.  He loves the sport.  He loves his job.  I just couldn't be more lucky to have him on this bag.
Q. (Through translation.)  (Regarding being paired with No. 1 and No. 2 player in the world.)  How do you feel about it?  Were you ever assigned to the same group with them in the past?
GABY LOPEZ: I've played with Ariya, yes, and Sung Hyun, yes, before.  You know, probably this was the biggest challenge that I've ever faced on the golf course, being in the same group as world No. 1 and world No. 2.  I was just very fortunate and very lucky to have that challenge, to face it, knowing I had to play my best game because they were going to play good.  I knew they were going to hit some great shots and I had to keep up with them.
At the same time, just tells me that I could be in the same level.  I'm working, I'm practicing, and doing lots of hard stuff to one day be up there in the world rankings with them.
THE MODERATOR: We would like to give our congratulations to Gaby.  Job well done.  You'll remember this forever.
GABY LOPEZ: I will.  Thank you so much to the media.  Thank you so much for your support.  It's been great.  I couldn't have done it without all your support and the volunteers, the staff, everyone here.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT