BLUE BAY LPGA
November 10, 2018
Gaby Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a magical final round.  Our champion, Gaby Lopez.  Yesterday you survived playing with the world No. 1 Ariya Jutanugarn.  Today you had the world No. 1 and the world No. 2, Sung Hyun Park.
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah, I mean, it wasn't an easy day.  It was tough for the three of us.  At the end I guess just being in the moment.
Q. It's such an emotional win, your first win on tour.  Your thoughts about your grandfather yesterday, you spoke about him.  Did you pull on that strength during that final round?
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, my grandpa passed away a couple weeks ago.  I always told him that I was going to give him my first trophy.  Sadly I didn't, but he was with me all week long, and I couldn't be more lucky, more fortunate to have him still alive in me.
Q. It got close out there on the 12th hole.  The lead was cut to just two.
GABY LOPEZ: I knew was a couple holes were coming were par-5s, par-3s.  I don't know, I guess it was just, You still have a chance.  I'm not going to sit and protect it.  I'm going to go and attack it, I'm going to go and get it.  I'll give it all.  If it doesn't go my way, it'll be okay.
Q. (Regarding 16th hole. )
GABY LOPEZ: It was actually pretty good.  I didn't expect the ball to actually land on top of the hill and it did and it almost went in.  That gave my for sure a little bit more belief.
Q. You're the first Mexican winner since the great Lorena Ochoa.  Will you be talking to her?
GABY LOPEZ: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, she's been my inspiration my entire life.  That's why I'm actually a professional golfer, and I couldn't be more proud of (indiscernible - wind.)
Q. (Indiscernible.)
GABY LOPEZ: I would love to thank my family, my caddie, Alvaro, my coach Horatio, and my whole team and everyone, all my friends that came to 18.  I would like to thank Chairman Gao, Jian Lake Blue Bay Golf Club, the Westin Blue Bay, Friends of the China LPGA, the China Golf Association, and IMG.  It's been amazing week.  I can't thank enough.
Q. And you're coming back because you had a hole in one yesterday, so you have a chance to come back and stay here.  We're now going to ask Chairman Gao to say a few words.
CHAIRMAN GAO: Congratulations to our champion of Blue Bay LPGA Tour.  Gaby, well done this week.  Congratulations.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT