OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 16, 2016
Gaby Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Gaby, how great has this experience been? 
GABY LOPEZ: The biggest experience of my life, for sure, no question. It's a very, very special place to represent my country and to wear the Mexican flag colors. It's a huge honor. And not only to cheer on the golfers, but to cheer on different sports and also different countries. It's just very, very special for me to be here. 

Q. When you found out that you had the chance to come to the Olympics as not just a golfer, but as an Olympic athlete, did that cross your mind, that you're not just a golfer here?
GABY LOPEZ: Well, it didn't. But as time went by and the Olympics got closer and people started calling me an Olympian, I was just getting chills everywhere. I can't tell you how excited and happy I am. It's a dream come true for sure. 

Q. Have you been staying in the village?
GABY LOPEZ: Yes, I have. 

Q. What's that like? 
GABY LOPEZ: It's really, really cool. People say a lot of like bad things about it but I take the positive parts. Having all of the best athletes of the world reunion in just one single place; and just being around like Michael Phelps last week, or being around Rickie Fowler and being around huge people in athlete world is very, very exciting. It just tells us how much potential we have to be here, being around the best in the world and being here to represent your country, it's speechless.

Q. What about the Olympic Park and all the venues and other sports. Have you been able to experience any of that? What have you done? 
GABY LOPEZ: Actually I went to the track meet to see Bolt, Bolt to compete a hundred metres. And that stadium was just amazing. I can't tell you how much people were cheering and screaming, and everyone was just so into the moment that you can feel the energy and all the positive environment. It's just very, very special. I don't think anyone can experience this. And just being part of this just makes it‑‑ I'm very, very fortunate. 

Q. What would you tell other golfers that aren't here? What stands out most about being here in Rio?
GABY LOPEZ: I think dreaming of the next Olympic Games. I think just working very, very hard to hopefully get back golf after Tokyo. I can tell that it's a lifetime experience. I want the opportunity again to come. I don't want this week to end. I'm just really, really enjoying every single moment I spend with different athlete, and in the dining room, watching different athletes. It's just amazing. 
So if I can the opportunity to tell different athletes and golfers to work harder every day to get to this point, because I don't think many people get to experience this. 

Q. Did you get to see the podium or were you out practicing on Sunday with the men standing up there with medals around their necks?
GABY LOPEZ: Actually I didn't get to see them, but just watching on TV, and just being here, being where the first Olympic Games ever‑‑ well, second and ever in golf, is just a dream come true. I'm just dreaming of one day standing up there. 

Q. If your week was to go perfect and you had any medal around your neck; what would that be like? Could you even imagine? 
GABY LOPEZ: I can't. I've always watched different sports and how they play the anthem, and you know, looking at their faces, some of them crying. So many feelings and expressions just come into one single moment. I think that's actually the most special moment in the Olympic Games. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT