U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2015
Gaby Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You are low Am, plus 2, talk about the conditions today.  It's not comfortable at all?GABY LOPEZ: You know, I just -- it's not that I find it uncomfortable, it's just that I -- a little off.  I wasn't in rhythm at the beginning.  You know, it was a little bit rainy, so it was kind of hard to see the greens fast, but they weren't actually fast because it had rained a little bit in the morning.  I had to adjust a little bit more. But overall, I think that I gave myself a lot of chances for birdies and didn't make a lot.  Didn't make any, actually.  I'm really happy with how calm and my attitude, my emotions, out there on the course.  I really think that I'm capable to play against these girls.  I think I'm good enough.  It's just matching good speed and good lines and let it fall in.Q. You talk about keeping your emotion in check, do you normally get off line with that?GABY LOPEZ: Yes.  When I was -- before college, I used to be a really emotional player and I'd get really, really excited and then really, really mad.  Right now I think that college has helped me a lot to get my emotions to one level and just maintain them for the rest of the round.  It's just a matter of forgiving myself and accepting all the mistakes that I made on the course and just moving on to the next one.Q. Does the fact that you are in a Women's Open sort of calm you down a little bit more?  Does that make difference?GABY LOPEZ: This is my second year at a Women's Open, so I've had experience.  My eighth LPGA, so that's good for me.  I love the competition, I love the pressure, I love trying to make putts for birdie because that's all about it.  I just think that feeling comfortable is going to be key for the week.Q. How do you get it back to the red numbers for tomorrow?  How do you turn around some of the things that took you off your game today?GABY LOPEZ: Just staying patient.  That's all.  I've hit enough fairways, enough greens.  I think it's a matter of keeping the ball on track and matching speed and line.  That's it. I think tomorrow in the afternoon is going to be a little more normal than the greens that I played just because I'm not going to play maybe in the rain.  So I'm going to adjust faster to the greens.  Maybe they are going to be faster, but I like fast greens. I'm really grateful for this opportunity.  I'm thankful for all the volunteers, 2,500, a lot of volunteers, and I'm grateful for how this experience is supported by so many people.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT