AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 20, 2020
Gaby Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Even par after today's round.  Take us through after the first day of the AIG Women's Open?
GABY LOPEZ:   Yeah, today was an interesting day.  I think that this kind of weather, you have pretty much nothing to expect.  Weather can change drastically so much during the day that you've got to be prepared with all your tools to kind of combat every single shot that you hit out there, and today, for me was up-and-down, I mean, I hit up-and-downs from everywhere and at the same time I hit some good shots, I think, you know, just trying to stay in the moment.  I think that's at the end of the day what's required out here.
Q. Did you feel the change in the back nine?
GABY LOPEZ:   Yeah, 100  per cent.  I think when you hit into the wind, you can have some control because you know how much the ball is going to release so you can start the ball quite nice, but it just plays really long that you're not hitting hybrids or hitting woods into the wind, it's a little -- it's a little predictable.  I think it drastically change but compensates.
Q. Take us through the last three weeks?
GABY LOPEZ:   Yeah, the last two, three weeks have been a little bit -- I've been feeling great, I've been feeling perfect the last two weeks, not that I didn't the first week, but you know, just being 100  per cent, being able to hit the gym a little bit, and last week I was in México with my coach, with my family and I needed some time to kind of adjust little things even though I didn't know where it was -- it was key for me to settle down for five days and then come back.
Q. What was it like for you to go from preparing for Toledo and then with the COVID-19 positive test to isolating?
GABY LOPEZ:   I practiced -- I did not stop practicing, but it's a disappointment, having to stop for two weeks.  But at the end of the day, doesn't matter, until you're prepared and you're mentally there, I think, that's a challenge here.  The LPGA is the best scenario to test yourself against the best in the world and I think just being able to have no expectations, play like a little kid into the wind, hit 5-iron out to 120 yards, it's crazy.  I like it and tomorrow is a different day and I think we've just got to be patient.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT