U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2019
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q So, Chesson, congratulations.  It looks like a top 10 in a major.  How do you feel about that?
CHESSON HADLEY: Incredibly pleased.  You know, I had some really good stuff today.  My long -- my -- all week I played great.  I kind of felt like I was clicking.  Just didn't get the job done as far as getting close to the lead, too many mistakes, obviously.  But certainly very pleased with the way I played, the first top -- I'm going to go ahead and say it, first top 10 in a major, and, you know, that's something to build on.
I was -- I felt much more comfortable today than I did yesterday.  And part of that is just because I was -- did what I did yesterday.  So I'm just really pleased with the way I played.  And I'm very tickled.
Q How do you feel about the setup?
CHESSON HADLEY: It's a 10.  10 out of 10.  I mean, the USGA couldn't have done any more or less.  At the end of the day, the course is just -- I feel like anybody can play well here, a long hitter, a short hitter.  And I don't -- even if it was harder, I think Gary would probably still have been leading.  And I think all the people that would have been there would still be there.  I don't think that would have changed much.
But I think the USGA has just knocked it out of the park.  I mean, it's Pebble Beach.  This place is just a miracle, and I love it.  So I think -- I haven't played in too many of these, but I get to come back here -- get to play Winged Foot next year.  I am already in that.  So that's exciting.  So, yeah, really, really proud of this week.
Q With the success you had this week, is there something in particular you feel you need to work on to take that next step?
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, just need to continue to -- I need to keep dialing in the driver.  I mean, I did a lot of really good things this week.  The putter was cold for about 15 holes today unfortunately.  I could have really made a move and probably been top 3 or so if I -- you know, if I had made a few putts that I should have been.
But I'm not disappointed in that or anything.  I'm just very pleased with the way I played and hung in there and did a lot of good things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT