WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2018
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You went from jeers to cheers at 16.  Tell me what that felt like?  
CHESSON HADLEY: It felt pretty good.  They were letting me have it pretty good in that bunker.  I had to pitch out sideways, I had, my lie was just atrocious, it was plugged and -- really plugged -- so just tried to hit it in the rough is what I did and thankfully the flag was in on the next shot, but I gave the crowd something to cheer about and I was, gave them some jeers of my own there.   
 Q.  It really kept a nice stretch together for you, you had three birdies in five holes and that kind of kept it together for that opportunity at 17.  
CHESSON HADLEY: Absolutely.  I could have made 5 there in a heart beat.  So to get away with a par there was huge.  It kept the momentum going, hit a great drive on 17 and 2-putted and it was a good round today, I hit the ball much better.  I didn't putt as well, so I'm going to go work on the putting this afternoon instead of the ball striking.   
 Q.  Do you have to be patient on this golf course and survive with some pars to get to those birdie holes?  
CHESSON HADLEY: Sure, if you drive the ball well out here you can shoot a really good number.  If you're hitting in the rough and kind of missing your spots a little bit, you always have to stay patient, maybe not more so on this golf course, but you do have to stay patient.  You have to keep your wits about you on the greens, you can get in some trouble.  So, yes, maybe stay patient around the greens and just work on your short game and get the balls up-and-down when you should.  Looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  Comments on your day.  
CHESSON HADLEY: It was much better ball striking day today.  I drove the ball much better, hit a lot more fairways and with that I was able to hit some better quality shots, higher quality shots into the greens.  The thing -- I hit the ball better but I didn't putt as well, so I might go work on the putting this afternoon.  But very pleased with my start here.  I feel like it's kind of taken me a couple years to figure this place out a little bit, but certainly got it working in my direction this week and hopefully can play the weekend or play well on the weekend.   
 Q.  Is it the crowd that you need to figure out or just the course more?  
CHESSON HADLEY: No, the course.  It's tricky.  The greens are, I would say, tee to green it's very, nothing about that is tricky or deceiving or anything.  You do need to hit your shots the way you want to hit them, but these greens are tough to read and they're fast and they're very pitched and there's some roll offs here and there and some tricky breaks.  So I think that was kind of part of it.  Just staying patient.   
 Q.  You were look the hottest player in golf there on the WEB.COM last year.  What did you have to learn on the WEB.COM to get back to this level?  
CHESSON HADLEY: You just kind of have to figure out how to play again.  I lost a little bit of that -- I might have been -- I was probably playing golf swing versus playing golf a little bit, thinking out there, thinking about my swing and trying to do too much and just taking it too seriously and I wasn't grinding and being patient and stuff like that.  That's the stuff you got to do out here, especially on TOUR if you're going to make cuts and be successful and play well.  Honestly, just kind of figuring out how to play the game again.  Hopefully that makes sense.   
 Q.  What's the challenge like coming to an event where sometimes you know that the course doesn't necessarily fit your eye?  
CHESSON HADLEY: That's a good question.  Because I would say that certainly with my record here in the past, I haven't made the cut here before, I haven't particularly played well and didn't particularly like the way it set up.  But this year you just kind of, I just kind of take it as -- all it takes is one round.  You play well out here once or play well on one course once, you kind of figure it out and then you can kind of go from there.  So I guess maybe that round was yesterday for me and I was able to make some putts and get some momentum and feel good about myself out here.  This is a great golf course and certainly the field, it's a big tournament and the field certainly demonstrates that.   
 Q.  Is it sometimes a chicken and egg thing where you need to get one round under your belt to kind of change your mindset about a course, but you don't get that mindset until you get a good round?  
CHESSON HADLEY: Absolutely.  Certainly.  There's some places that I'm going to avoid, but there's certain places that you like and you just haven't played well there yet.  I feel like maybe that was this week for me.   
 Q.  Your favorite moment on 16 so far this week?  Any good comments or any funny things happen out there?  With that many people in one contained space.  
CHESSON HADLEY: No, those people were booing me pretty hard for hitting it in the bunker, but I chipped in for par there, so I thought that was pretty cool.  They seemed to like that.   
 Q.  They hate you, then they love you.  
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, so there was a lot of hate and then there was a lot of love and then there was a lot of hate during my celebration towards them, so it was great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT