SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 28, 2017
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a terrific round of golf today.  68 in those blustery, cold conditions.  Just talk about how good you thought that round was today.
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, I guess it was pretty good.  It's not awesome out there.  I got off to a great start and just kind of hung around.  Kind of tightened up a little bit when the cameras showed up.  Just maybe lost a little bit of focus.
But that birdie on 17 was really nice.  Yeah, certainly very pleased with 4-under.  Looks like we'll have a chance tomorrow.  Just go do the best we can.
Q. Exactly.  I think the wind is going to drop a little bit.  Maybe a little warmer, but still not like the conditions the first couple days.  What's the game plan?  Just keep doing what you're doing?
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, absolutely.  We're just going to be aggressive and we're going to hit it and we're going to go find it and then we're going to play it from there.
I know that sounds stupid and probably not very interesting, but that's just kind of all we can do.
So maybe just keep it short of the grandstand on 12 tomorrow instead of kind of ricochetting it off the roof and hitting it on another hole.  So I think if I'm going to do anything different, that's going to be it.
Q. The success you've had obviously since Raleigh -- I know that was hard to take -- but since then, I mean, your game, I mean, two seconds I think on the Web, a win, third in Napa.  Your game since then has just been pretty unbelievable.
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, it's been nice.  I would like to keep the pedal down tomorrow.  I would still think if it's less windy it wouldn't be as hard, but when it's cold like this and it's wet like this, I had my share of mud balls, as I am sure everybody did out there today.
We'll just go do the best we can.  Hopefully we can just make some birdies early.
Q. Since Raleigh you really haven't been off.  What is it since that week?
CHESSON HADLEY: That's my thing for me only.  I'm not looking to help anybody else.  If that doesn't come across cross as selfish or arrogant.
I've just kind of found something that works for me.  Hopefully I can remember it and keep doing it.
Q. With these temperatures, and the wind that kind of picked up in the afternoon, how satisfied are you with your 68?
CHESSON HADLEY: Very.  You know, it was not hard out -- excuse me, it was hard out there.  I was trying to say it's not awesome.
It's cold and it's windy, and I got off to a great start, which was nice.  Just kind of hung in there a little bit.  Didn't play particularly well on the back, but made a nice birdie on 17 and kind of hung in there.
In a good spot for tomorrow.  I think it'll be a touch warmer, but just batten down the hatches again.
Q. How about the 12th hole and the approach shot.  Something crazy happened there.  Walk us through that.
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, I had I think 125 and hit it in the rough, which is not good.  Came out pretty nuclear.  I was posing, looking right at it.  It just smoked the grandstand back there.  I think it actually ricocheted off the ShotLink tower.
So not awesome back there, if I can be honest.  I think if I can do something differently, I'm going to hit the green tomorrow and maybe one putt for birdie.
Q. Sounds like a plan.  Well, you recovered perfectly well from that, your only bogey of the day.  Just the fact that you have full status this season and you also get an invite to the PLAYERS Championship.  How does that allow you to play for this whole season?
CHESSON HADLEY: It's certainly freeing.  You know, I can plan my schedule a little bit.  But I like trophies, and you can win some decent cash out here, too.
It helps, and it does take a little bit of pressure off, which is great.  Obviously we've gotten off to a good start this year.  Would like to follow it up with -- you know, I don't know where Ryan is at, but I am sure if I play well I'm sure I can have a chance to win tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT