RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 21, 2016
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You laid up in a perfect spot on 18, you had all that green to work with.  Talk to us about your third there coming into 18?  
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, obviously you want to hit the fairway there and give yourself an opportunity to hit a good one shot and maybe make eagle.  Unfortunately I hit in the bunker.  An easy lay up.  I hit several wedges, some full, full-on wedges today that haven't really got the bounce forward that I thought that they should have.   
So I kind of laid up a little bit closer, so I just kind of flighted one in there.  It was perfect.  Landed just short of the ridge, bounced up over it, checked up and rolled down to about six feet.  Tap-in birdie is always a great way to finish.   
 Q.  How is the first bounce coming into some of these greens?  Are they hopping?  Do you think it might get firmer as the rest of the week goes?  
CHESSON HADLEY: Oh, yeah.  It's nasty out there today.  I don't think the course is playing easy at all.  The wind picked up after hole No. 2 and the fairways are really firm.  It was really hard to hold the fairways.  It's really hard to hold the greens, especially from the rough.  You probably have to play away from the flag and take your 30-footer, whatever the hole gives you.  But it's firm now.  It could probably get just a little bit firmer, but it's hard.  It's really hard out there right now for sure.   
 Q.  So you only had the one dropped shot today, and normally when we are looking at a golf course like this that has the rough down or thin, maybe keeping it in the fairway is not as important, but with the greens as firm as you suggest, is that going to be key around here the rest of the week, keeping it in the short grass?  
CHESSON HADLEY: Absolutely.  I remember last year, they had a little bit more rain.  I think we are kind of in a drought here in the Toronto area.  So you know, when you hit it in the rough, it's dry, and it's a little bit thin, like you said.  So you're going to catch these flyers.  You catch these flyers into these firm greens, you have no chance of holding the green.   
So it can play harder; it can play easier.  If you're in the fairway, it's obviously to your advantage.  But it is sometimes nice to kind of get some club on the ball, at least get it around the greens.  But the pins are in some tough spots out there.  They are tucked and it's windy and it's firm around here.  I don't think it's playing easy at all.  I just really played a nice round of golf today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT