VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2016
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Chesson, got off to that hot start on the back.  The Snake Pit not a big factor for you, huh?  
CHESSON HADLEY: You know, it was a great day.  I haven't played my best so far this year but I've been working really hard and trying to do things a little bit different mentally, be a little more positive and take a little bit of the pressure off myself.   
Kind of you have go out and enjoy playing golf again.  It was tough out there today so I knew pars were a good score, just be really, really patient and I made some putts today which was great and, yeah, anytime you can get through the Snake Pit, I'm not sure, maybe 1-under is what I played it, I'll take that any day of the week.  It was a great start, great day.   
 Q.  When you play a good round of golf on a hard golf course and you know that 3, 4-under par is going to be a good round and you know you're going to go through a bad stretch and you did, you played 4 holes in a role and didn't hit a green, that's the key.  
CHESSON HADLEY: Absolutely.  That's part of the patience I was talking about.  Don't panic.  I missed the green from the middle of the fairway but No. 3 is a hard hole and I made some really nice par saves and just don't panic because it's a long week.   
You know, even if I hadn't gotten it in at 3-under, if I had finished at 1-under it's still a heck of a round.  It was not easy out there.  Really proud of myself and that's the ticket this week, patience and if I can keep making putts I'll be there on Sunday.   
 Q.  I talked to Keegan Bradley about four hours ago.  It was blowing 20 miles an hour.  You got to hope you don't have the same conditions that they have in the morning because looks like you could get a great break here with the lighter winds in the afternoon and might get a chance in the morning.  
CHESSON HADLEY: Look, I'm all for it.  You know, those boys had to play in it this morning.  It died down there maybe the last four, five holes.  We had it for probably 10, 13 holes or 13, 14 holes but yeah, it was a good day and I mean 4-under in the conditions that Keegan played in is a heck of a round.   
 Q.  Lastly, even when it stopped blowing could you believe that it would stop blowing and trust the fact, because there's a lot of shots you know it's blowing but you don't feel it where you're playing from?  
CHESSON HADLEY: Sure.  That's a good point.  It might take you one shot to kind of figure that out okay, you know, you blow one over the green or something, goes to the back of the green and you can kind of dial it down from there but, yeah, it's hard to trust it around here because sometimes it's swirling and you know it feels like it should be doing something, if you're back there in the trees on a par 3 or something like that.  So, yeah, it's important to trust yourself out here.   
 Q.  Great patience, keep it going.  
CHESSON HADLEY: Thank you very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT