THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2015
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about the round.CHESSON HADLEY: So I just got off to a great start.  I had a really good up-and-down on No. 1 and that just kind of, you know, whenever you can hit some decent shots on the first hole it sets you up. Then I hit a great drive and an awesome 6-iron into No. 2 and a good putt that didn't go to in for eagle, but a tap-in birdie. I just kept hitting a lot of quality shots.  I made everything I looked at today.  The greens are absolutely perfect out there.  I feel like I made -- I made just about everything -- all the par putts I had to make, that I ran by maybe for birdie, I made the par putt coming back, which was great. So a lot of good things happened out there today and obviously would like for good things to happen again tomorrow.Q. You played early today, probably going to go out late tomorrow, what's the mind set going into tomorrow?CHESSON HADLEY: Same thing.  The course will be a little bit, a little less receptive tomorrow afternoon, but that's fine.  I played on hard courses before.  The key is just to just not really like get ahead of ourselves or get flustered or anything like that. I played with Ernie today and he had a few bad holes, but I was -- I'm still learning out here and I really paid attention to the way that he handled himself out there.  He just kind of -- he's the Big Easy, right?  He's just kind of, he's smooth and he's just easy out there.  So, I learned a lot from that.  He just never really seemed to get flustered.  He's made about 50 million dollars out here, so that kind of helps. But I think that's a good key for me tomorrow, just to play like we have nothing to lose, let's not worry about anything, there's nothing to worry about, and let's just go play free.Q. Is there something out here that suits your eye?  You played well on the other side a couple years ago on WEB.COM.CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, you know, I think I just love the whole tournament.  Everything about this tournament, from how they run it, to the food, to the course, to where we're staying and everything is just great about it. It's very simple, it's efficient, and it just, I just have good vibes here, obviously, from winning here for the WEB.COM TOUR Championship and, obviously, I'd love to shoot a really good one tomorrow and it would be pretty cool to have, to win both tournaments here.  Certainly that's why I'm here and I want to go play well and win tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT