PUERTO RICO OPEN
March 6, 2015
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Back in familiar position.   Must like the course?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah.   It's certainly a lot harder this year than it was last year because the wind and blowing mock eight out there.   
Yeah, the birdie on the last there was‑‑ I won't tell you what my motivation was, but I saw the leaderboard and there was some motivation with where I was placed and who was around me and maybe who I wanted to play with and maybe who I didn't want to play with.   So I was like, I gotta make this.  
So I'm in good shape, and yeah, I don't think anyone's going to be getting to 21‑under this year, but you know, hopefully a couple more good days, and we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Pretty lucky this morning with the wind.   It was really calm this morning?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah, there was a few holes.   I think we got in like two holes with it.   I feel like it was humming on 12 and 13 and from there on, it's just‑‑ you know, you get out to 15, the par‑5 and it's just crushing you right in the face.   So a few holes.   Certainly warmed up in a little bit more docile conditions, but I'm not disappointed they get to go play in it this afternoon, because I had to yesterday.  
   
 Q.   Yes.   Now, they're calling for the same wind all weekend.  
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What do you think a winning score would be?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   I would think 10 or 11 certainly would get the job done.   
You know, if you get the ball‑‑ it's hard to get the ball close, but if you hit some good shots, get the putter going, you could shoot 5 or 6‑under.   It's kind of tough because they'll move 18 up on the weekend.   At least they did last year.   And that hole will become‑‑ it's still a birdie hole, but it's like 20 yards outside of the range to‑‑ and I hammered one out there today and it's just slightly too far.   So if they move the tee up, I would look‑‑ the scores will be a little bit lower just from that.   And you know, it's tough when you have two par‑5s, you know, that are normally reachable that you're laying up, you know, on 5 and 15.   
So you know, there's‑‑ I think the course is playing great right now.   It's in great shape.   It's drying out a little bit.   Had a few mud balls yesterday and not very many today.   I hope they keep the course exactly how it is.   I think everything is perfect.  
   
 Q.   One thing that you think fits your game the best about this course, going back to last year and this year?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   I think just the way the holes set up.   It fits how far I hit the ball.   Like the fairway bunkers are positioned in places where I can hit driver, hit 3‑wood or hybrid or whatever and I'm not really stressing about what club to hit.   Like I mean I know exactly what club I'm pulling, you know, walking to the tee.   It's not a hard‑‑ and so that's‑‑ that's what I like so much about it is just the easy decisions I feel like this course provides, me at least.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT