PUERTO RICO OPEN
March 4, 2015
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Does it feel like a year later?
CHESSON HADLEY:   It's hard to believe it's been a year. 
You know, certainly had some good vibes here last year, and kind of getting‑‑ you know, getting the feeling again, it feels really good, and obviously I'm very comfortable here, and I love this place.   So hopefully we can get comfortable early tomorrow and start making some birdies.   It was super windy out there today.   I don't know if it's going to be like this the rest of the week, but it will certainly play a little bit harder than it was last year if the wind keeps up.

Q.   Outside of the two‑year exemption, what changed the most last year for you?
CHESSON HADLEY:   My bank account.   Yeah, 630,000 is a nice check.   I know the purse is a little bit smaller this year, but you can still write me a check for first place whenever you want.   Plus we're playing for‑‑ I'm playing for that trophy anyway.
Hopefully we can‑‑ yeah, I think it's just comfortable‑‑ you know, whenever I get off to a good start, I seem to be in contention, or somewhat close to the top of the leaderboard come Sunday.

Q.   So far this season are you happy with how things are progressing?
CHESSON HADLEY:   I wouldn't say that.   I just‑‑ I don't feel like I've played well honestly since I won last year.   I had a couple of good tournaments in the fall during the FedExCup to kind of get me to BMW.   Obviously didn't make it to TOUR Championship, but you know, I had a good finish at Pebble, and I thought that was going to be a good springboard, and I missed the cut the last two weeks.   So hopefully this week will be my jump start for the rest of the year.

Q.   Do you remember your mindset coming into this event last year?
CHESSON HADLEY:   Oh, yeah.   Kind of the same thing.   I was just frustrated.   I almost didn't come down here last year, just because I was frustrated, and I don't know if I took a week off to get everything going.
So I mean I guess it's just kind of a good reminder, like just when you think things couldn't get any worse, you know, is when it turns around and everything starts going your way.
So hopefully I can get a little momentum this week and get the wind at my back and kind of get going for this.   I love the West Coast swing, but I don't seem to play very well over there, unless it's at Pebble Beach.   So hopefully I can get the mojo going.

Q.   Did you watch Padraig and have thoughts of that when he won and how much he's struggled over the years?
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah.   This sport is just‑‑ it's incredible.   It's so frustrating and so rewarding.   I mean everything.   It's a very difficult‑‑ I mean I certainly think it's one of the hardest professions.
But yeah, it was great to see him win.   I mean he's an awesome guy and great champion, so to have, you know, to have that monkey lifted off his back, I'm sure he's very happy about it.

Q.   Now that you've had some time to spend in Puerto Rico and has a defending champion, what's a couple of your favorite things down here, about the island and about this area?
CHESSON HADLEY:   You know, I like this resort, and the course‑‑ I mean people are, I don't know, got an interview earlier this year about least favorite courses on TOUR, favorite course or whatever, and I couldn't honestly think of a course I didn't like.   And this lady said somebody said they didn't like this place.   There's not a bad golf hole out here.
Like, you know, there's no 10 at Riviera.   I mean every hole is right in front of you.   It's in good shape.   You know, the greens are great.   I love this place.   I think it's a phenomenal golf course. 
You know, I don't mind a birdie fest.   I love it.   So obviously I'm a little biased.   I love this place.
So you know, I'm excited to be here and hopefully I'm there come Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT