U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you agree that it showed its teeth today?
CHESSON HADLEY: For sure.  I would say it's just a little bit firmer.  I felt like the fairways were a shade firmer, the wind was blowing a little bit more, and the flags were harder, for sure.
I thought they were at least about -- I felt like the first two days it was -- felt like you could get it in there close, and there was certainly a couple of flags you could have done that today, but I felt like for the most part you had to be really sharp with your stuff to get it close and give yourself some opportunities at birdies.
But I hung in there.  So I was proud of myself, and we got another tee time tomorrow.
Q. Birdie opportunities there, do you feel it's doable to make up five shots or so?
CHESSON HADLEY: Always.  You just never know.  You just go out and black out some tomorrow and do what Johnny Miller did, and you never know.  I would assume it's going to be very similar conditions tomorrow as it was today, just kind of temperature and wind and everything.
I felt the last three holes I thought it got cold.  I was cold.  The last hole I think I had 158 and I roasted a 7-iron and it was three paces short of the flag.  So it's getting cold and it's a little bit windy.  If you can go put a really nice one together tomorrow, anything is possible, for sure.
Q. Does it feel like the kind of tournament, G-Mac was saying that you just hang around on Sunday?
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, you've just got to hang in there, and you never know what can happen tomorrow.  It could get super firm.  And bogeys are flying everywhere.  I would think I'm going to have to shoot something lower than a 3- or 4- or 5-under.
But at least I have an opportunity to be there, to do that.  And obviously they're still playing, so you don't know what the lead is going to be yet.  I think 17 is playing tough and 18 is back into the breeze, and I didn't play that hole very well.  But Gary can probably get there in two.  You still have to hit a really good drive to do that.
Q. Best shot today?
CHESSON HADLEY: Best shot today?  You know, I didn't make a putt, but that shot I hit on 17 was about as good as I can do.  That was just flush 6-iron, five-yard draw off the right edge of the green, landed short.  Did exactly what I wanted it to do.  I'm very happy with that one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT