AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 12, 2015
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A 64 today, great start to the tournament.   Some comments on your round, please.   
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah, it was so great out there.   The weather is just‑‑ it is as good as it gets at golf.   No questions asked.   
It was a great start, a lot of good shots, made some good putts, and I had one bogey out there today, but it's the PGA TOUR, you're going to make bogeys.   
So just so excited to be off to a good start.   I missed a couple cuts in a row, so to shoot 7‑under early is huge.   And it is my favorite place on the planet and it's just, no matter what happens the rest of the week, this is just awesome.   It's just nice to be here.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the last couple weeks.   Anything in particular with these last two starts that you struggled with?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   I've been getting close.   I've been starting to show some signs of coming out.   I missed the cut in Scottsdale and I had been planning on taking Farmers off.   But I had my swing coach come out, and we finally just kind of tied the last piece together and that was, believe it or not‑‑ it's what I've always struggled doing.   It is my nemesis.  
It's this, I tend to drop it when I get to the top and we just think about staying tall through the ball.   And I've been able to really work on it over there in Scottsdale and got some great practice in and was able to convert on some good swings today.  
   
 Q.   What is it here at the Country Club that you like so much?   This course.   
CHESSON HADLEY:   Here?   Oh, it's just an awesome old school golf course.   The greens are really old poa annua and the course is, it kind of has, almost has a slight links feel to it.   Pebble Beach is my favorite, that's my favorite course ever, but this course is in awesome shape and like I said, the weather is, this is as good as it gets in golf.   Just excited ‑‑ it looks the same for the rest of the week, so hopefully we can keep it up.  
   
 Q.   What is the key in this format?   Is it just staying patient out there with the amateurs?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah, we were grinding those first couple holes.   It was a little slow.   But I'm a chatterer, so it's not really bothering me playing with these guys and all that type stuff, so yeah, you got to stay patient.   Especially on the little bit easier golf course where you feel like you should make a boatload of birdies.   So if you can stay patient and hang in there you're going to be fine.  
   
 Q.   Lastly, take me through that last birdie there.   That was a nice way to finish.   
CHESSON HADLEY:   Absolutely.   That was absolutely a perfect 5‑iron number.   It's nice ‑‑ the pin was 11 from the right instead of four, so you just can, I can just kind of aim over there and let my draw bring it back and it was down there about six feet, five feet, and I made a good putt and it went in.   Perfect way to finish.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT