THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 23, 2014
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us a little bit about your round today.
CHESSON HADLEY:   You know, I feel like I've been struggling for so long, to have a round like today when it was really cold and it was pretty windythe first ‑‑ not pretty windy, but it was windy the first couple of holes.   To shoot 4‑under, get off to a great start is always nice.
I three‑putted the last, which always leaves you a little bitter, but I made my fair share out there today, so I'm extremely pleased and excited about getting going tomorrow.

Q.   You mentioned struggling with your game.   Tell us a little bit about how useful your great attitude is to sort of just keep you as positive as possible.
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah.   It is really hard to stay optimistic and positive when you know how well you can play, and then you know, you can't perform the way you want to perform. 
So it's important to, you know, to believe that it's in there, and yeah, you know, today feels like it just kind of takes a little bit of the weight off my shoulders just as far as ball striking was concerned.   Still a few things we need to shore up for tomorrow, but yeah, excited about getting after it again.

Q.   And how hard is it with obviously wonderful year last year, Rookie of the Year.   With expectations and maybe not living up to them right now, a round like this really must go a long way.
CHESSON HADLEY:   Sure.   You know, expectations are‑‑ that's what we're all about out here.   Every day is a new day, and it's hard to accept that sometimes, because you know, sometimes you like to live in the past. 
But you know, it's all up to me whether or not I want to choose to believe whether or not I live up to the expectation or whatever.   That's all created exteriorly, I want to go out there and play as best as I can, and if I do that, I think I'll live up to the exterior expectation.

Q.   Wonderful.   Great start to the tournament, and good luck the rest of the week.
CHESSON HADLEY:   Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT