DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2014
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  b>Q.  Solid round of golf.  I saw the one bogey there on No. 5.  It's one of those things you catch a jumper out of the rough, it didn't do it, and it landed soft and you three-putted.  Other than that, clean and solid.  CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah, absolutely.  It was such a great round of golf.  It's been quite a while since somebody's interviewed me after the round because I played well. It was great to get off to a good start, especially here in the playoffs.  The one bogey I had a bad drive.  But I did 3-putt.  You're going to have them on this tough golf course, but 5-under is pretty good.  If we can keep doing that the rest of the week, we'll be in good shape, I hope.   Q.  As a former player, I always thought this golf course was pretty easy because it gets soft.  But this week with it firm, it's not.  It's in your face.  You try to play aggressive shots on some of these hole locations and you could pay the price.  You played smart today.  CHESSON HADLEY: Sure.  Yes.  It really helps when you're hitting it well ask you're putting well, which I haven't done in quite a while.  My swing coach (Jeff Paton) came out this week and we kind of found something with everything. So to get over there and stand over a 10-footer and believe you can make it, it's huge, because you feel comfortable.  Oh, I just hit it 12 feet left, 12 feet right, and you make it. It's a great round of golf, a lot of solid shots.  The key is to do it again tomorrow.   Q.  And that's what I was going to ask you.  Tomorrow you get to have a little dinner and get up and go at it.  I think that's really an advantage for a guy that's playing with confidence.  CHESSON HADLEY: Sure, I love going late/early.  Especially when you're playing well, you can kind of keep it going.  Tomorrow morning I'm not sure what the forecast, but typically the greens are always a little bit softer in the morning.  That will be nice, hopefully I can get out there and make some birdies.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT