PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 9, 2014
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I've got Chesson Hadley, the 2014 winner of the Puerto Rico Open.   I've gotta ask you, you looked very calm, cool and collected out there today.  
CHESSON HADLEY:   I did.  
   
 Q.   You did.   You did.   Absolutely.   How much did winning twice last year on the Web.com Tour help you today?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   Quite a bit.   First and foremost I need to thank somebody, and that is Jesus.   I was so nervous.   I did not eat well last night.   I did not eat well this morning, and through a lot of prayer, and just‑‑ I'm so thankful, and it's all glory to Him.   So thank you, Jesus.   
Okay.   So yeah, the two wins last year, that was‑‑ it helps a lot because you're there, you've learned how to win, you learn how not to choke, and there's a lot going on, and you know, I was telling Kaye this morning, it's all about the start, and I got off to a great start, and probably the shot that won me the tournament was the chip‑in on 5.   I mean I was dead over there and I hit the nastiest little nipper over there, and it snuck in the left door.   
Obviously playing with Webb in the final group at Vegas was an incredible as well, so a lot of positives to take away from this week obviously, so looking forward to the rest of the year and the next two years.  
   
 Q.   Without a doubt.   I remember that when I got my two‑year exemption.   Now, you almost did not play this week.   Obviously you signed up at the last minute.   So tell us how that decision came about.  
CHESSON HADLEY:   So I shot three over the first round of Honda last week, and I went back to the hotel room, and I just‑‑ I just let it all out.   I had enough.   I was sick and tired of playing like an idiot.   And I don't know, from there on then, I just figured it out, and golf's fine now.   That just shows you how quickly it can change.   You can never give up.   
You know, from the year that I've had, you know, to be winning, I mean it's incredible.   So it opens up a lot of doors.   It guarantees me a major.   I've never played in a major before, and I don't know how close it gets me in the World Golf Rankings to gets me in the Masters, but obviously it's pretty special.  
   
 Q.   Well, wonderful job this week.   Congratulations, and best of luck to you in the future.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT