PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2014
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Why don't you just tell me a little bit more about your round. 
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah.   Played great.   It was frustrating, to be honest with you, even though I was playing well, just because I hit it so well today, and you know, I missed quite a few putts, a lot of putts the last 11 holes, but you know what, we're right where we need to be.   I'm leading, and you know, that's great. 
It's hard to be satisfied with how well I hit it, but we need to keep in perspective that we're leading and we're in a great spot for tomorrow. 
You know, if I go out there and play like I did today, I think we'll like where we finish.   You know, just keep hitting them in there.   That's all you can do, and hopefully the putts will fall tomorrow.

Q.   Would you mind expanding a little bit about your plan for tomorrow?
CHESSON HADLEY:   You know, I'm going to go at just about every flag.   You gotta stay aggressive out here.   I've learned that.   You know, for me, if I kind of take the foot off the pedal a little bit, I'll kind of lose focus and you know, I won't be as sharp as I would like to be, so I plan on being really aggressive, and you know, if I can shoot another 5, 6, 7‑under tomorrow, I think we'll be in good shape.

Q.   The course has been diverse.   It was windy.   Then it rained a little bit.   The course was soft.   Then today.   Tell me a little bit about that. 
CHESSON HADLEY:   The course is still nice and soft, so it makes it easier to fire in there at these pins.   You know, if I can drive the ball well again tomorrow, you know, it's easier, certainly a lot easier coming out of the fairways. 
You know, like I said, the course is in great shape.   Just need to make a few more putts tomorrow, we'll be right where I want to be.

Q.   Danny Lee is right behind you. 
CHESSON HADLEY:   Right.

Q.   Which is kind of reminiscent of last year in the Rex Hospital Open when you were actually behind him and you took over and actually won that. 
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah.

Q.   Tell me a little bit about the feelings there. 
CHESSON HADLEY:   You know, I was thinking about that a little bit.   Obviously I‑‑ I don't‑‑ I mean Danny and I are great friends and we're going to have a blast.   I think we're playing twosomes tomorrow, so we'll have a blast out there, and hopefully we can kind of dual it out.   Obviously I would love to come away with a victory.   But you know, we're right where we need to be.   It's the best we've played all year, and you know, just need to be‑‑ just stay positive about that.   No matter what happens tomorrow and no matter how many putts I missed today, we're in great shape, and just go see what we can do tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT