U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2019
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHESSON HADLEY: It was a very typical Chesson Hadley round:  six birdies, a double, and three bogeys.  That's kind of how I play golf.  So I just hung in there and just grinded it out.  And I'd like to find a few more fairways, specifically on No. 15, like maybe play a little bit left of that, of kind of whatever it is over there that I was playing around in for a few shots.
I couldn't be happier with how I played.  For me, this is -- I mean, I'm going to go ahead and speak for everybody.  If you want to win a U.S. Open, it's here.  Period.  It's not even up for debate.  I'm tickled to be here and to be competitive.
So I've got -- we've got a long way to go, but I at least have an opportunity.  So that's great.
Q. You haven't had the most success in the majors you've played in.  What's been a little bit different this week than the other weeks?
CHESSON HADLEY: Well, this is a course we play every single year, or at least I choose to be here.  I love this place.  I think there's something magical about this peninsula.  It's just -- it's obviously -- I mean, I'm sitting here interviewing -- you're interviewing me.  Look at what we're looking at.  It's pretty amazing.  And the weather is just outstanding this week.
So I think there's a lot of things going in my favor.  Just we play this course a lot.  I'm very familiar with it.  I didn't really have to practice a bunch, do a bunch of practice rounds because I know this golf course.  Yeah, there's a few fairways that are moved, but it's the same track.  I think that's probably the biggest point.  And, yeah, I just need to keep doing what I'm doing.
Q. This is your first weekend in a U.S. Open, missed the cut last year.  Obviously you talked about the venue, very special place, but not only just making the cut, but it's making the cut, at least at this point.  We don't know what the afternoon guys are going to do, but you're right in there.  You're right in the money.
CHESSON HADLEY: Yeah.  Absolutely.  You know, I'm thrilled.  I'm in great position.  I don't know, like you said, I don't know what they're going to do this afternoon.  It's not breezy, and I don't probably see it being too breezy.
It's getting firmer, I mean, big time.  And so every day I feel like it's gotten, you know, 10 percent firmer every single day, the greens.  And, you know, the greens get bumpier in the afternoon.  It's just poa annua.  It's not -- has nothing to do with the USGA and their setup or anything, it's just the natural -- anywhere gets bumpy with poa annua.
So you never know.  I mean, there's some guys at 5-under.  Rickie.  I mean, if they go shoot a 4-under, then I'm five back.  So, look, there's still plenty of golf to be played.  So I'm very pleased with where I'm at.  The key to me this week might be finding a few more fairways.
Q. If you look at the morning wave, you don't see any (indiscernible) you don't see a lot of those.  Did it play a lot harder than it did yesterday?
CHESSON HADLEY: I thought it maybe -- maybe.  You know, with -- it was a touch cooler this morning, and it wasn't raining, but, you know, it was kind of misty or foggy, whatever.  So the moisture stayed on the greens a lot longer than it typically does.  So the ball was -- it was firm, so it was taking a firm bounce along with a skip.  So it was kind of a little bit extra.
But I got off to a really, really nice start.  So I think that kind of really settled me in, and I was comfortable.  And I -- but I think that's really important, is to get comfortable early.  And hopefully I can do that the next few days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT