PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 7, 2014
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Chesson, great round of golf.
CHESSON HADLEY:   Thank you.

Q.   Tell me a little bit about it.
CHESSON HADLEY:   Well, I've kind of been struggling all year just with ball striking, just finding the planet, honestly.   And yesterday, I don't know, I was just talking to my swing coach again, and we kind of just like, look, just go back to the basics and I've always struggled with staying tall through the ball, and I just started thinking about that yesterday before my round, and I hit it great on the range, and it really started to line up yesterday.   I hit it great, and then I just pured it everywhere, all over the place today.   I played awesome. 
I missed‑‑ you know, I putted great, too, and I still left a few out there, but it was a great round of golf, and it's nice to kind of be in contention again.   It's been since the TOUR‑‑ well, it's been since Las Vegas.   So awesome round today.   It was playing really tough there at the beginning with the wind, but the course was set up‑‑ it was very generous today, so I wouldn't expect the same tomorrow.   So stay aggressive, and if we could get another 7 tomorrow, that would be great.

Q.   Tell me a little bit about the course.   You mentioned it.
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah, the course is in great shape.   I think it rained a little bit this morning, and everything was still nice and soft, so you can fire it.   I mean I was just firing at everything, as I'm sure everybody else was.   But it's in phenomenal shape, and you know, it was playing a little bit easier today.   They had some tees‑‑ some of the tees were up because I think they were expecting some heavy winds, potentially.   But you know, that probably‑‑ that's not going to be the case the next two days.
You know, it was nice that I was able to take advantage of the course the way it was set up today, and hopefully we can go get it the next couple of days.

Q.   How is Puerto Rico for you so far?
CHESSON HADLEY:   It's been fabulous.   It's nice having my wife down here and my son.   We're really enjoying the resort here, and obviously trump's course, it's in phenomenal shape, and we're taking advantage of the pool getting rid of this nasty golfer's tan that I have. 

Q.   Does the chlorine help that?
CHESSON HADLEY:   Chlorine help‑‑ no, chlorine bleaches, doesn't it? 

Q.   How do you approach the weekend?
CHESSON HADLEY:   You know, really no differently than any other round of golf or weekend.   You know, we're in contention, and because you can make a boat load of birdies out here, the last thing you want to do is kind of tighten up.   You gotta stay aggressive.   You gotta go try and shoot as low as you can tomorrow, and especially on Sunday, I think that's one thing, if I'm lucky enough to be in the lead or around the lead come Sunday, you gotta remember to keep the pedal down and not‑‑ you know, that's when you can kind of get nervous.   I find that when I get nervous I kind of get a little bit conservative, and I need to stay aggressive and fire it on in there.   So that's what I'm going to do.   I'm going to keep sending them on in there.

Q.   Have you played with James Driscoll?
CHESSON HADLEY:   I have not.   I played‑‑ my very first PGA TOUR event I played a practice round with him at about 6:30 Wednesday morning.   We played nine holes, and that's about it.   So you know, he's a nice guy.   I've seen him around here, you know, always in passing say hello. 
He's from Virginia, or he went to Virginia.   I went to Georgia Tech, so we got a little bit of ACC blood in there.   But I'm looking forward to playing with him.   He's been playing well this year, and should be fun.

Q.   Okay.   Play well.
CHESSON HADLEY:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT