SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 20, 2013
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   With Chesson Hadley.   Chesson just your fourth PGA TOUR event.   First time in the final grouping.   What will you take away from today?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   A lot of things.   First and foremost, I gotta thank Jesus for what he's done for me, and I was certainly nervous out there today, but I was able just to kind of hang in there and I just wanted to say thanks to Him.  
But you know, it was my first final group, as you said, and I was very nervous.   I got off to a poor start, which I knew would be key.   You know, I made a couple of good birdies there on 7 and 8 and I puked on myself right there on No. 9.   
But it was a great day.   I shot under par, battled back there on the back nine.   So I think I finished tied for fifth and I'm proud of that.  
   
 Q.   Absolutely.   Next time around, next time you're in a final group, what do you learn from this?   What do you do a little differently?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah, I think, you know, the routine.   It's just so important.   I just felt a little uncomfortable enough out there just to kind of maybe just throw of routine off a little bit.   And I hit some squirrely shots there at the beginning and I was able to make a couple nice par saves that kept the round going because it could have gotten pretty ugly there early.   
I think that's just the first one off the top of my head.   Just focus a little bit more on getting into that routine and kind of feeling the shot out.  
   
 Q.   You said you're going to do this many times.   Do you believe now you belong here on the PGA TOUR?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   Absolutely.   I was thinking about this this morning.   About a year ago I had missed first stage and I had no status and I was, you know, I was at the point where I just was ready to just put the clubs away and whatnot.   And a friend of mine disqualified himself, Blayne Barber, from Q‑School and here we are, I had Web.com status all year, and to be on the PGA TOUR to do what I love for a living is just phenomenal.   And I do believe that I'm going to win out here.   And you know, it means a lot for Webb to say that and I'm so happy for him.   He deserves all of this.   He's a phenomenal player and person, and congratulations to him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT