SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 19, 2013
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHESSON HADLEY:   On 11, I haven't hit the fairway, so tomorrow I think I'm just going to hit a 3‑iron and just find a way to make (indiscernible) instead of trying to play(indiscernible).   
After that hole I kind of settled down.   I think I played 6‑under from there on in, so I was extremely pleased with and to be in the position I'm in going into tomorrow.   To be my fourth PGA Tour event, I'm pretty proud of myself for doing that.   So no matter what happens tomorrow, I'm just going to go out there and (indiscernible).  
   
 Q.   Talk about playing with Webb Simpson tomorrow.   
CHESSON HADLEY:   I was telling somebody out there that I'm going to be more nervous playing with him tomorrow than I am anything else.   
Webb and I grew up playing together.   He's always been more successful earlier than I have been.   And you know, he's been such a good role model and just influence for the game as far as his faith is concerned.   
I'm just looking forward to playing with him tomorrow.   I think it's been since 2008 since we've played tomorrow.   I think it was the Western Refining golf tournament out in El Paso, the All American tournament.   It's just going to be a blast, just a couple of old friends going out there for an afternoon stroll, right?   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   Absolutely.   I remember like it was yesterday when I met him for the first time.   I grew up playing at North Ridge Country Club.   He was out there playing with somebody that day.   I don't know if I had ever seen him before, but I looked over and he was over there.   And he was kind of walking towards me, and I was like that looks like Webb Simpson.   
He came up and he was like, Hey, I'm Webb, you know, let's play tomorrow.   Yeah, sure, okay, yeah.   We exchanged numbers, went and played.   
You know, ever since then we've followed him in the ACC and college golf.   It took me a little bit longer to get up to the PGA Tour.   But I'm here now and it's nice to be able to ‑‑ I'm sharing the same stage with him now.   I certainly would like to go out there and put up a good number and put some pressure on him and see if we can get the first W.  
   
 Q.   How old were you when you played?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   College, 15, 16.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell a difference in the course today?   
CHESSON HADLEY:   No.   I think that's a great question.   I think you are right on.   It was a little bit more difficult out there today.   There was a few pins that you are definitely kind of looking left of or right of or long of.   
You know, for the most part, I felt I did a very good job managing my game today.   It's only going to be firmer and faster tomorrow.   And you know, the course is in phenomenal shape.   
I was playing Cordevalle last week and everyone is like this course, it's going to be miserable next week and what not.   It's perfect.   I don't know what these people are talking about.   It's great.   
I look for there to be a lot of the same type of pins out there tomorrow.   You know, the back nine is pretty gettable, which I was able to‑‑ I guess I played it 4‑under, so that was nice.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the putt on 15.   
CHESSON HADLEY:   You know, I don't feel like I putted today as I did the first couple of days.   I think the shot of the day for me was the par putt I made on 14.   That was the par‑3.   That was just huge momentum saver to be able to birdie 11 and finally get under par after kind of a rough start.   That was kind of the boost I needed to finish strong.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
CHESSON HADLEY:   You want me to talk about 15 and 16?   They waved us up on 15, and I just roasted a driver up there.   I think it hit perfectly into the hill and dribbled up there to about ten feet.   I hit a good putt, it was just a little to the left, so it was a nice tap‑in birdie.   So that was good.  
Then I drove it right on 16, and I laid up to the perfect number.   And my first thought when I hit it was please go a little.   Then I saw it take the first bounce and it looked like it just one hopped right in the bottom of the stick.   That was huge.   That was my hole‑out of the year.   My caddie and I were talking about that.   We were like when is it coming?   So it was nice for it to come then.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT