SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 18, 2013
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Really nice run, really nice finish for you.   You got yourself in contention here in the second event of the 2014 wraparound season. 
CHESSON HADLEY:   It was a great day.   It's been a fantastic start to the week, and to be at 11‑under and to have a chance going into the weekend is awesome.   I've been in this position before as far as Web.com TOUR, and certainly a little bit different stage out here on the PGA TOUR.   Just looking to manage the nerves tomorrow and just realize it's just golf, and let's just go have some fun.

Q.   You went on quite a few birdie runs out there.   You realize you had one par between the 13th hole and the 7th hole. 
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah, I like to keep things interesting.   I've never been accused of being boring.   You know, tomorrow if we can keep those birdie runs going but just avoid some bogeys here and there, that would be good.

Q.   I'm looking at that back right hole location at the par‑3 5th hole, and I say anyone who misses this to the right just missed the shot because no one would aim right of that flagstick, and you just hit the prettiest little draw just 10 feet right of the hole, just the perfect place, but a really dangerous shot to pull off. 
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah, that shot just felt so good.   I had 190 to the flag, and with how hot it was and how I've been hitting it, it just was a perfect 7‑iron, just go ahead and green light it, so I aimed right out there and I was able to get the speed right on that putt, which was huge.   I made three 2s today, so that's good.   Hopefully I can keep it going.

Q.   Coming off your championship on the Web.com, you carried a lot of momentum into Fry's, you make the cut, you come here, and if you look at the leaderboard there's a lot of experience there.   Is this the first time you've gone around this course this week?
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yes, never seen it before.   I've been to Vegas a couple times for some college golf, but first time I've played TPC Summerlin and it's in fantastic shape.   It just really fits my eye well, and it resembles a lot of the courses that I feel like I've played in the past, especially college golf.   You've got to go make a bunch of birdies, and I'm four back going into the weekend, so I need to go find a way to make some more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT