NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2013
Chesson Hadley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHESSON HADLEY:   Oh, my gosh, it was nasty out there, especially to get off to start with.   You know, I just kind of was extra patient all day today, because I knew par was a good score based upon‑‑ I'm a scoreboard watcher, so I was looking at scores all this morning, and I knew it was brutal.   I got a great draw with the tee times because it was cold and windy this morning.   You could tell by the scores, I mean, it was just brutal. 
I got off to a really good start.   I parred 11, which is a brutal hole.   I just honestly didn't hit my irons super today, but I was just able to make some putts.   I made two bombs on the par‑3s on my two birdies on the back side, my front side.   Both of them were over 35 feet.   I mean, that was super‑‑ I mean, those are huge momentum builders because those could easily be three‑putts with how tough these greens are.

Q.   You mentioned getting the good end of the draw.   What was it like when you got out?   Had it calmed down to a certain point? 
CHESSON HADLEY:   No, it was still pretty windy, I thought.   It was certainly probably warmer than it was this morning.   But I mean, the wind‑‑ there was a couple of gusts‑‑ there was a gust on the 11‑tee that was probably 20, 25 miles an hour, maybe.   But I just hung tough all day, and I just kind of played for pars.   When you do that, it kind of takes some of the pressure off you.   It's nice, because you're playing a tough course and par means something out here, whereas, in Utah, par means nothing.   So it was nice. 
I hit one in there almost tapped in on the last and finished with a birdie was huge.

Q.   Number 9? 
CHESSON HADLEY:   Number 9, yes, sir.

Q.   How firm were those putts on the par threes? 
CHESSON HADLEY:   The first one was probably 40 feet, 45 feet, and the next one was probably 30, 35.

Q.   What happened with the bogey? 
CHESSON HADLEY:   I hit my drive left in the trees.   But I hit it in the trees a lot today, actually.   But every time I did, there was a gap.   There was either a gap or I had a decent lie to where I could get some club on it.   I just hit a pretty poor recovery effort, and I ended up missing about a 15‑footer for par.   But that's probably the hardest hole on the course today other than 11.

Q.   I think those are the two hardest ones on the course. 
CHESSON HADLEY:   Yeah, No. 11 is just a brutal golf hole because that bunker is so well placed because I hit three‑wood off the tee both days.   The tee was up today, which is nice.   But it was 3‑wood, 5‑iron, so that's a great hole.   14 is a good hole too.

Q.   As a scoreboard watcher, what were you thinking as you saw Noh's name start to separate? 
CHESSON HADLEY:   What did he shoot, 7 under today?   I mean, I shot 4‑under, but did he have any bogies? 

Q.   I think he had one. 
CHESSON HADLEY:   Still, that's incredible.   This is a tough course.   If you hit it, I tell you what, the longer hitter, you just have an advantage out here because you're not hitting 4‑iron, you're hitting 5‑iron or 6‑iron, and there is a big difference there, obviously, 7‑iron versus 9‑iron or something.   So that's a seriously good round by him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT