NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Matisse Thybulle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you describe this experience so far, your feelings, how the night is going?  
MATISSE THYBULLE: It's been surreal.  I think it's going to take a little bit for me to realize it's actually happened.  But yeah, I'm just trying to take it all in.   
 Q.  Just your thoughts on going to the Sixers?  
MATISSE THYBULLE: A dream come true.  I haven't gotten to spend much time in Philly, but I've heard nothing but good things.  I've got family nearby, so I can't wait to play for this franchise and be a part of their new family.  I've got family in Jersey, so not too far.   
 Q.  You're a two-time Pac-12 defensive Player of the Year.  Why do you take so much pride in what you're able to do on that side of the floor?  
MATISSE THYBULLE: There's always a place for a defender on the court.  Defense has proved to help you win games and win championships.  I feel like to be as valuable as possible to a team, I feel like I need to be a defender.  And then added to that, in the NBA you need to be able to shoot threes at a high rate.  So I bring that to the table as well.   
 Q.  When did you first hear about the trade and all the craziness of it?  Can you describe that?  
MATISSE THYBULLE: Before they called my name, my agent leaned over to me and whispered and told me that I was going to get drafted by the Celtics but I was still going to Philly.  So I wasn't going to have to worry about that.  It was nice knowing that going into it so I didn't have to be surprised by the Celtics pick.   
 Q.  What did you do with the hat?  
MATISSE THYBULLE: I'm not sure where the hat is.  I think I have a new hat coming, though.  Yeah.   
 Q.  You're always described as a defensive player.  Can you talk about your offensive game and how you think that's evolved?  
MATISSE THYBULLE: Like I mentioned earlier, I feel like three-point shooting -- just being three-and-D, I feel like that's a role I can fit into off the bat.  I took a step back in college and allowed some of my teammates to score, and that shows with my offensive numbers.  But three-point shooting is something that's come naturally to me, and I'm just excited to be able to do it at this next level.   
 Q.  You're going to a Sixers team that came really, really close to knocking off a team that ended up winning a title.  How does it feel to know from day one you're going to be on a team that really has championship aspirations?  
MATISSE THYBULLE: Through the whole process, I was always telling my friends and family I want to play for a good team because I feel like my skill set is the most valuable when it comes to a team that's already established and they have guys with roles and I know my role.  I know I can just step into that role and help this team.   
 Q.  I know you said you have family from Jersey.  Markelle Fultz played for the Sixers briefly.  Did you pay attention to the Sixers because he's a former teammate of yours, because of that connection?  
MATISSE THYBULLE: Yeah, I've watched the Sixers.  Just being a basketball fan, watching basketball, I've watched them because you want to watch the good teams.  So of course I've watched them.   
 Q.  Even though they're a veteran team, there are still a lot of guys they have to sign.  Do you feel like you can come in and contribute right away?  
MATISSE THYBULLE: Yeah, without a doubt.  I feel like that was one of the reasons why I stayed in college all four years was just so I could be as ready as possible when I came to the next level.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT