PAC-12 MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2018
Mike Hopkins
Matisse Thybulle
David Crisp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Oregon State - 69, Washington - 66 (OT)
MIKE HOPKINS: The game went back and forth.  We've had three great matches against them.  One went to double overtime there.  In our place it came down to a two-point game.  Here another overtime game.
Both teams really competed.  They were, you know, obviously more aggressive.  They went to the foul line a lot more.  They were able to be aggressive, got them to the line 32-18, and that was the difference in the game.
Q. When you look at that last ten seconds, take us through what you saw in the play to Dom.  And also, when you drove inside, what was the thought for going for two as opposed to kicking out and going for three?
MIKE HOPKINS: He listened to his coach.
DAVID CRISP: We had run a high ball screen, me and Dom, and Dom was popping, and tried to drag it.  And then he wasn't there, I was trying to hit him for the pop, then he started circling back towards me, and miscommunication.
Then that last one, I don't know.  It was a lot of contact.  You know, nothing, lay-up.
Q. Is that a foul they call with five minutes left in the game, Coach, in your opinion?
MIKE HOPKINS: I don't know.  It's a tough game to referee.  It's a fast game, it's a physical game.  To just go off David, I told David to try to get a quick two, and he went all the way.  It was an aggressive play.  We felt like we could get into our defense.
Then those -- listen, you've got to tip your hat to Oregon State.  I mean, they battled, they made the plays down the stretch that you had to make.  I mean, the bottom line is this is a championship-level conference and a great environment.  They beat us in overtime.  It was a heck of a game.
Q. Coach, you guys were picked to finish 10th in the league.  These guys won eight games without you here last year.  Obviously this is a pretty rough loss at the end of the year.  But is there any sort of optimism on what you accomplished this year?
MIKE HOPKINS: To be honest with you, losing is the worst feeling on Planet Earth.  It just is what it is.  The regular season, preseason was these guys.  They bought into a system.  They had great leadership, and they busted their butts every day, and they competed.  You've got to give them all the credit.
New coaching staff, new system, there is a lot going on.  And these guys went out there and made the plays that they had to make.  For them to be able to have a winning record in league, and we had a winning preseason, it's frustrating to lose, because we've got a good team.  We've beaten some really, really good teams this year.  Like part of what we're trying to build is a standard of excellence.
Losing, I mean, it happens, and how you handle that is obviously a thing, but the standard of excellence is:  What does it take to win?  What does it take on a day-to-day basis?  And these guys did an incredible job, with more, hopefully, in the season to come.
Q. How much did Noah's getting in early foul trouble affect the game do you think?  Was there any contemplation to throw him out there?
MIKE HOPKINS: Listen, we've won games this year when Noah got fouled out.  He's an aggressive player who got in foul trouble.  We've come back, we've made plays.  We had chances tonight to win the game in regulation.
So, it's just one of those things.  Next man up.  Next guy's got to go out and play.  We've got two great leaders who made plays throughout the night to give us an opportunity, and we've just got to learn from it, move forward, and hopefully play in a postseason tournament and get a chance to go out and get better.  I mean, that's always moving forward, always trying to get better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT