TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2006
Kevin Ullyet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Kevin, have I heard properly that you said on court it was your best match?   
 KEVIN ULLYETT:  I think one of our better matches of the year.   
  
  Q.  One of them?   
 KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah.  Hard to remember all of the matches.  But, I mean, we converted our breakpoints, and everything went our way.   
 But also just our feeling on the court, I think.  I mean, we've had letdowns and stuff.  I think today personally, I don't know about Paul, but I think it was definitely one of our best matches of the year.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you're secure getting to the semifinals?   
 KEVIN ULLYETT:  I think there's a lot of permutations that can happen.  There's still a couple matches to go.  Could end up everyone very similar, might come down to sets and games.   
 PAUL HANLEY:  That happened last year.  I had won two matches last year with my other partner and we didn't get in.  We're certainly not thinking that we're in.   
 KEVIN ULLYETT:  Everyone can win two.   
 PAUL HANLEY:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Paul, what do you think about the match?  Do you think it was one of the best you played this year?   
 PAUL HANLEY:  Yeah, I think, you know, we played really well.  I think our attitude today was very good.  I think that was the most important thing, was not the way we hit the ball, but our attitude on the court.   
 Like Kevin said, we really gelled together today as a team, just our communication, just the feeling that we were getting from each other on the court.  I think a couple of our matches recently, our sort of mojo, so to speak, being a little bit down.  So today, you know, that was the big emphasis on the match today, was to go out there and be confident.  We're the third or fourth best team in the world and we should show that, our presence on the court, more.  I think we did that today.   
  
  Q.  How did you meet?  You lost your partners.   
 KEVIN ULLYETT:  Wayne, my partner, knew he was retiring.  He told me last year the Masters was going to be his last tournament.  From about August, September, I started looking around.  Everyone was hooked up with their partners.  I heard that him and Wayne were finishing, as well.  We played a lot against Wayne and Paul together.  We always struggled against them, and I really liked the way Paul played.  I asked him.  Now the rest is history.   
  
  Q.  You've been doing well.   
 PAUL HANLEY:  Yeah, we've had a very good year.  It's been a great year.  If you look back at the results, it could have been even a fantastic, unbelievable year.  But, you know, it still can be.  There's still one more tournament to go here.  We're hoping to finish off with a bang.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like reviving your time?   
 KEVIN ULLYETT:  Definitely.  I've been playing so long, for me it's just all about enjoyment now.  I'm loving playing.  A new partnership was maybe what I needed.  Wayne and I played together for five years.  This has given me a bit of a boost and impetus to carry on playing more, really work hard.  Him, Miles, our coach, pushes us hard.  I'm enjoying it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT