US OPEN
September 7, 2001
Kevin Ullyet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.   
 
 
Q.  Just overall, do you have a sense of what this means for  -- you said out on the court how much this meant to you and to your country.  Do you have a sense of what it means back there, you guys winning this? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah, I mean, it's not often, I don't know how many Grand Slams Zimbabwe's had.  Byron's won one.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  I don't know how many Grand Slams African players have had.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Especially the whole effort, not just Zimbabwe.  It's a huge thing.  
 
Q.  One of you guys said out on the court that you hadn't been playing well as a team coming into this.  This may have been a little bit of a surprise.  What were the problems you were having? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Well, over the grass court season and the start of the hardcourt season, we just -- I guess we had a lack of confidence.  We decided, I mean, I guess at least the start of this tournament, we're gonna take more risks and be way more aggressive than we have been.  And it just, after one or two matches, we were feeling so good with the aggressive play that we were doing, and it just -- it snowballed from there.  Taking more chances and etc.  
 
Q.  So after the first match or two, did you guys, even though you're a high seed - or a low seed, 14, you felt pretty confident? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah.  After the first two especially.  And then we, I mean the quarterfinals, the guys we beat  -- I mean third round, the guys we beat were supposed to be the high seeds, we had a pretty good round against them.  We were confident from then on.  
 
Q.  Wayne, I hope I'm not too personal with this, but what do you think your dad's thinking up in heaven right now?  Started out on a farm in Zimbabwe.  US Open doubles champ. 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Yeah, I know he'd be very proud today.  I wanted to  -- we rushed out on the court.  I wanted to say, you know, something like that.  You know, just thanks to my dad and wanted to dedicate the trophy to my mom, who's had, you know, quite a rough year.  And just do all that they've given us.  It's just, you know, I mean I know I couldn't do it in singles probably for him.  But I think doubles would put a big smile on his face.  
 
Q.  What is your mom going through, may I ask? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Sorry?  
 
Q.  What's your mom going through, may I ask? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  It's just been a long year with my dad passing and everything, just getting used to it. 
 
Q.  First major for Zimbabwe, isn't it? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Well, Byron won the French with Stark.  But as a team, it's a first major. 
 
Q.  You guys specialize in beating US Davis Cup teams? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah.  Just fires us up, I think, a little bit more (smiling).  
 
Q.  I was very disappointed.  I didn't hear any drums out there.  Did it bother you that you didn't have any  --?
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Bothered us the second set (laughing).  
 
Q.  Does that cheering squad exist yet, that we saw last year in Zimbabwe? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  They're still there.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  We're playing Slovenia in two weeks at home and they will be there.  They live for that. 
 
Q.  Is that to try to get back into the World Group? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  That's to get back into Group I.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Stay in Group I.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  After you guys, we lost to Romania and then Belarus.  
 
Q.  Did that cheering squad have a name?  They were very good. 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Just drummers, weren't they?  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  I don't know.  
 
Q.  You play in the same building? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Yeah, yeah.  
 
Q.  Some of us obviously were fortunate enough to visit your country.  Beautiful people.  Beautiful nature, Victoria Falls, so forth.  How are things going there? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Well, I mean, I hear probably what you hear.  Just I haven't been back there since April.  I was there for a couple of weeks in April and that's all I've been there this year really. But, you know, I hear from my friends.  They're finding it tough to make a living still.  I mean the economy just is really the bad thing. You know, safety-wise, danger-wise, it's fine, I think.  Especially in the cities, it's still like before. But it's just the dollar is just so devalued now.  It's just tough  -- then the government brings in all the rules saying it's illegal to change money and all that, so it's making it hard for someone to make a living back there.  
 
Q.  Your farm safe? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  We haven't got a farm.  We've got like 25 acres just in the suburbs.  It's a big piece of property.  But, yeah, no, that's  -- only the big, big farms are in danger, the 400,000 acres, you know.  Those are the farms that are being... 
 
Q.  We've been to your parents' place.  Do you have a place yourself? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  No.  
 
Q.  That's what you're talking about? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  I'll build -- I'll stay there.  Did you see those two properties at my parents' place?  
 
Q.  We played on the grass courts. 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Next door there's another property there.  
 
Q.  Didn't see that. 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  There's like an orchard there next door.  I might build something there in the future. 
 
Q.  You said you haven't been back in a couple months.  Do you know when you are going to be? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  I'm leaving tonight.  
 
Q.  Obviously, when our little country came to yours to play Davis Cup that was a big event.  We got out of town with a victory.  Do you think this is one of the biggest victories in Zimbabwean sporting history?  Were there others? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Zimbabwean sporting history...  I know the ladies won a gold medal in hockey at the Olympics.  In Moscow.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  1980.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Other than what Nick Price has done, I mean, you can't... Probably up there in the top five (smiling).  Top four or five. 
 
Q.  Kevin, where exactly are you come from? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Same, I don't have my own place there.  My parents live about ten minutes away from Wayne's parents. 
 
Q.  Did you play together as kids? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah, we grew up  -- I mean, I left there when I was seven.  I went to school in South Africa. 
 
Q.  You did? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah.  But we had a couple battles when we were about five or six.  
 
Q.  On the grass at their place? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  No, some sand.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Sand courts.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Under 8 tournaments. 
 
Q.  Was that a decision to help your tennis, or was the schooling better in South Africa? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  My parents just moved.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Independence.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah, we had a small holding and there was some trouble out there with some, you know, some rockets and stuff like that, and my dad just thought it was a bit hairy so we got out. Then three, four years ago, '98, he decided he wanted to go back.  He thought it was nice.  He still had his land there.  He wanted to go back, so... 
 
Q.  So he is back? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  So he is back, yeah. 
 
Q.  We've been asking a number of the international players one thing they'd like the American people to think about their country, their people.  If you could take a moment and field that question, what you'd like Americans to know about Zimbabwe and the people. 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Just want them to know that it's a great country.  I think the people are so nice and friendly there  - on the whole and on the average.  Unfortunately, they've just been getting such bad press at the moment.  But it's just a wonderful place, you know.  If for some reason I won't be able to live there in the future, I'm just gonna jump off a building I think.  So... What else can I say?  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah, I think the people  --. 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  The people are so nice.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Very friendly.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Hospitable.  Especially if you meet a farmer, the most hospitable person on the face of the Earth.  
 
Q.  When did you first become a team? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Wimbledon last year.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Wimbledon last year. 
 
Q.  Last year.  Was that your first match together, that Davis Cup match? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Against the States?  
 
Q.  Against us, the United States.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  A few challengers when we were younger.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Starting out.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  21, 22.  But that was pretty much our first  --. 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  We played once or twice a year.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  That was one of our first big matches.  That's what made us decide, "Let's give it a go on the tour."  
 
Q.  Congratulations.  I'm very happy that I saw this today.  Is your mom here?  Is Cara here? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Cara's here.  She's in the semifinals.  
 
Q.  Goran, of course, comes from an extremely troubled part of the world.  He had his great run at Wimbledon.  You guys come from this really small country, a fairly isolated part of the world.  You come to New York City, you win in this 23,000 seat arena.  What does it say about this sport and how anything's possible? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Yeah, when you put it like that, it sounds good.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  I think just when we come over here, it's just all the battles and the hardships that our country is going through, we come over, it's just  -- everything's great, you know.  Because it's just kind of a  -- we can focus on our tennis and just go out there and really have a ball.  
 
Q.  Is this a refuge, in a way? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  I don't know about a refuge because we, you know, we love home and going back there.  But maybe a bit of an escape I guess.  
 
Q.  A lot of the guys playing doubles like Mirnyi and so forth are really towering guys, like 6-foot-whatever.  You guys aren't exactly gigantic.  How does it feel to go out and pull it off without having that much size? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Yeah, it feels great.  It gives us a bit more motivation as well, you know.  But we got to make up for it with lots of energy, lots of fighting.  I mean, you know, as we said, we haven't had that great of results in the last year or so.  So... Just try to hang in there.  We've been honest with each other, hard working, just doing all the right things and believing it will come.  
 
Q.  Is this your biggest paycheck? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  When we won the quarters, we said we got rewarded.  I don't know what you call this (smiling).  
 
Q.  You have a perfect record in the finals. 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Our record in the finals is good, yeah.  It's very good.  We always seem to play  -- finals that we've won together, we've played really great matches.  This one we played good, but other ones were even better.  It was a smaller scale. 
 
Q.  Were there set points against you in that first-set tiebreaker? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  One or two.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah, it was  -- they had a couple set points.  But doubles, sometimes you need a little bit of luck and maybe a little bit of a (inaudible) here or there.  
 
Q.  I'm sorry I didn't see the match.  Was there a point in there that you remember in that tiebreaker that set it your way? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Kevin had a toss and lob on set point against us.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  We'd been saving it.  The sun was really directly on that side.  Wayne kept saying, "Save the lob, hit one or two, but let's try and save it." I don't know, I just threw one up. 
 
Q.  That saved the set point? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Saved the set point. 
 
Q.  You don't remember the score? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  I think it was 8-7. 
 
Q.  They're going to experiment in a few tournaments with the men's doubles ending in one of those super tiebreakers like it did last night in mixed doubles.  What is your opinion? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  I think that's a crock of bull, actually.  
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Terrible.  It's terrible.  
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Doubles is a historical part of the game.  If they try and cut it short, that's sacrilegious as far as I'm concerned.  It's kind of saying, "Come, we'll give you two sets, we want you out of there.  Don't want to take too much TV time or whatever." 
 
Q.  What is the future of the avocado estate? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  I'm gonna build another house in the orchard there probably.  But I'm gonna live there for the rest of my life.  So... I'll run the tennis courts.  
 
Q.  Is somebody running them now?  Is your mother? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Yeah.  I mean, we have staff.  You know, we have eight people there, you know, just taking care of the courts, the orchard, the avocados. 
 
Q.  Three grass, if I recall? 
 
WAYNE BLACK:  Four.  One hard.  And I'll be on the other side of the property and look after my mom for the rest of her life.  She can stay near the grass courts. 
 
Q.  Did you grow up with a tennis court? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah.  Zimbabwe.  Not in South Africa when we moved, but Zimbabwe. 
 
Q.  You had one in Zimbabwe? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Sand court? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  No, hardcourt.  
 
Q.  Parents play? 
 
KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah.  My dad  -- they only really got going, you know, not when we had the court.  They didn't play that much.  But when we moved to South Africa, they played more.  Got really into it.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT