DAVIS CUP - USA vs ZIMBABWE
February 5, 2000
Kevin Ullyet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Well, the bad stuff first. Wayne, set point for two-set lead. You got a forehand
right there, and did you just blow it or -- 
 
 WAYNE BLACK: What did I do with it? 
 
Q. Hit the net. Halfway up the net.
 
 WAYNE BLACK: It's easy to say that now, but I mean, you know, second serve, they're
serving their second serve, just mixing up serves so much I don't know where it's going. 
 
Q. It wasn't a serve. Wasn't a return.
 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: He hit a pretty average volley I should have gotten. 
 
Q. The question is --
 
 WAYNE BLACK: It's if you have -- 
 
Q. Went into a tailspin there.
 
 WAYNE BLACK: That happened in so many matches I played. You don't hit any grounders out
there. You're hitting serve, volley and return. Suddenly, you have a forehand; it's not so
easy. You have to hit it an inch above the net for it to be anywhere. So you just got to
go for it and hope -- I mean, that was one of the few points actually -- (inaudible.) 
 
Q. Do you think Zimbabwe can now win this tie?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Definitely. I thought we could win from the start. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.) You were a receiver, how far out was the serve?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Was six inches to a foot. 
 
Q. Was it that far? When you saw it coming --
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Yeah, I saw it coming. 
 
Q. And you felt kind of good?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Yeah. Well, he should be shaky after those two returns Kevin did. 
 
Q. Can you take us through the emotions of that fifth set?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Me? 
 
Q. Anybody.
 
 WAYNE BLACK: We were just trying to keep ourselves positive out there. We know - we
played doubles for years now - anything can happen out there. Especially the altitude, the
ball's going so fast, everybody's serving well. We have to pick a spot on the returns and
almost hope for the best. It was going to happen to somebody there in the first set, I
just didn't want it to be another marathon like last week. But actually this was a
different situation than last week. Last week we were always serving where 5-6, 6-7, 7-8.
This time I think we had a little bit of an edge there. Rick knew; he knew that if he lost
the serve, the match was over. So I think that's a bit more nerve-racking when you're a
serve down like that. But it's so quick out there. I mean, you know, it's just a matter of
a point here, a point there. 
 
Q. You guys played together before?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: A couple times, yeah. 
 
Q. In Davis Cup?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: No. 
 CAPTAIN GAVIN SINEY: First time Davis Cup. 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: Couple Tour events, Adelaide a couple weeks ago and then Japan about
three, four years ago. 
 
Q. Win any matches?
 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: A couple matches. 
 
Q. You came in 2-2, something like that?
 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: Probably something like that. We won a couple challenges. 
 
Q. Gavin, the two returns down the alley really did it in the end. Was it a reflex
reaction?
 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: O'Brien was trying to help Leach out most of the match, but especially
in the first set. Leach's serve definitely let up a little bit. He wasn't serving as big
as the first couple sets. O'Brien was looking to go. Just a question of maybe a little bit
of luck to decide he was going to go -- (inaudible) that's when he made my decision to go
up the line. 
 WAYNE BLACK: Did he even go? 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: I don't know, I just picked my spot and ripped away. They just came off. 
 
Q. I was a little late coming in here. Wayne, how does that win rank amongst your Davis
Cup performances?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: It's definitely one of the best. You know, definitely the best matches you
play are the matches that win a tie for you. (Inaudible.) I mean that's -- I mean if we
lost that match, I think we almost -- we're almost out of it. So, you know, that's just
one of my best, for sure. The way I played, the way we competed, we were down and out
there for a long time. So I was just happy really. 
 
Q. Was McEnroe yelling at your players?
 
 CAPTAIN GAVIN SINEY: No, I don't think he was yelling at our players, I think he was
yelling at the referee a little bit more -- the umpire, I mean. 
 WAYNE BLACK: He said something once or twice to you. 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: Just little chirps. 
 WAYNE BLACK: Just little things. 
 
Q. Did you say something to him? I thought I saw you say something.
 
 CAPTAIN GAVIN SINEY: The player or me? 
 
Q. To John?
 
 CAPTAIN GAVIN SINEY: Myself? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 CAPTAIN GAVIN SINEY: Well, I spoke to the umpire. I think it was quite important in the
third set when Wayne was serving -- 
 WAYNE BLACK: Second set. Second set, I was serving 5-6 and he was -- 
 CAPTAIN GAVIN SINEY: -- he was arguing and arguing. I said something to the umpire,
"Is anything going to happen? He can't do that." Because then Wayne lost his
serve. The next serve was a lucky line ball. Then another one that O'Brien hit,
(inaudible) and that changed that set. 
 WAYNE BLACK: The umpire shouldn't let him argue like that for -- it was close to a
minute. I'm sitting there ready to serve, and Mac was talking with the guy. The umpire
should've just put his foot down. 
 
Q. Wayne, you might have to come back on the court to play a fifth match. How do you
feel about that?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: I'm going to enjoy it. I'm looking forward to it. You know, I have to
enjoy it. I mean it's just such a good atmosphere out there. It's so fun to be out there
on that court. This is why I play tennis, for a moment like that. So I'm going to have a
lot of fun. Hopefully, Chris will be a little nervous, but, yeah, Byron either, Byron's
playing fantastic tennis. He's at home, he's beaten Mark Philippoussis here. He can
definitely take on Andre. 
 
Q. Do you not think you're underdogs anymore?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Underdogs, I'm going to say for the record we're still underdogs but we're
going to win. 
 
Q. If you had to say one or two keys in turning the whole match around, what would you
say?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: It was just our team effort, myself and Kevin and Gavin. We just didn't
let our heads drop once. Just hung in there. 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: Fighting every point. It was big, we were ahead in most -- (inaudible)
every time we got down, we just -- the points went our way. We managed to get ahead in the
count in the games, just playing every point at a time. 
 
Q. What's the most important part of your team chemistry? What's the one thing that's
most important?
 
 CAPTAIN GAVIN SINEY: I just think our team has got such big hearts. They never give up.
They fight. And we've been together for a long time, and we're a team. I think that's very
important. If you look at some of the other nations, they're individuals and they don't
really get together. We are a unit. We had breakfast together, we go out together, we do
things. I think that's important. We all stick together and we're fighting for each other,
and I think that's important. 
 
Q. Did you want to get that third set down to the wire as soon as possible once it was
a lost cause?
 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: Not really. We got very unlucky at the serves both times. (Inaudible.)
When you don't fault off, you're still trying. Anything can happen. Definitely was a
momentum shift there when they got their breaks, and, yeah, they were on top of us. 
 
Q. Did it help that you were serving first in the fourth and fifth sets?
 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: Yeah, it helped us getting started in the fourth and getting a good hold
under our belts and getting ahead again. 
 
Q. You only had two service breaks, both against Leach. Was there something in his
game, on his serves, that you felt that you could --
 
 KEVIN ULLYETT: O'Brien's serve kicks up a lot higher. Leach's serve skids through. For
me, it's easier to return Leach's serve because it's here, (indicating.) O'Brien's gets up
here and gives me trouble. But by far, Leach's, for me, was easier to return than
O'Brien's. I don't know about Wayne. 
 
Q. Gavin, you're almost through. You feeling the comfort now?
 
 CAPTAIN GAVIN SINEY: Well, I think the team's happy but there's still a lot of tennis
to go. Going into Sunday 2-1, I think there's going to be a lot of pressure on Agassi.
Byron will get up there, he played a brilliant match on Friday. I don't think he made
hardly any unforced errors. If he can do that on Sunday, you never know. He has a good
chance of beating Agassi, especially now that he's loose now. There's a lot of pressure on
Woodruff. Wayne's played probably about 40, 50 Davis Cup matches so he's got a lot of
experience. If it gets to a 2-All situation, I think Wayne's got a good chance in that
case. I think now we have a good chance. 
 
Q. Wayne, how do you rate your chances against Chris tomorrow?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: I'm feeling comfortable. I'm at home. I've got the crowd behind me, and,
you know, like we said, I've been in this situation before; he definitely hasn't. Plus, I
think he will still have all the pressure on him. He's holding the flag up for the big
United States. So, as I said, I'm just going to run every ball down tomorrow. 
 
Q. Wayne, do you go to sleep with the sound of drums in your head? (Laughter.)
 
 WAYNE BLACK: No. Then I wouldn't sleep. But I go to sleep looking forward to the next
day, the drum beat again. 
 
Q. Your father says that Cara is the best volleyer in the family. She hits those faster
than you two guys.
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Yeah? Get her out there, let's have a competition. 
 
Q. Is this whole experience better than you could have even envisioned? You had months
to think about the match.
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Yeah. Every single tie is fantastic. It's so nice to be out on that court
and just to suck it all in and enjoy it. I don't think you could ask for any more. So, I
mean, it is fantastic out there. It's good the Americans have a little bit of support,
too, so there's competition in the crowd. What else can I say, it's just fantastic. 
 
Q. Do you think people now have more of a sense of where Zimbabwe is in the world?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Well, in America they do. 
 CAPTAIN GAVIN SINEY: And Australia. 
 WAYNE BLACK: And Australia. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT