AL WILDCARD GAME: RAYS VS ATHLETICS
October 2, 2019
Yandy Diaz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Tampa Bay - 5, Oakland - 1   
 Q.  (Question in Spanish.)  
YANDY DIAZ: I've been out for two months, but I tried to come out and play as hard as I can. And luckily the results came in right.   
 Q.  To jump back right away against Sean Manaea, what did that do for you guys, just to keep adding on there with another home run?  
YANDY DIAZ: When I looked to the bench and saw the guys super excited, it pumped me up to go around the bases. I thought we had to carry that momentum throughout the game.   
 Q.  Yandy, how big is it for you guys, you know you need to win this game, but now you have another tough test to go to Houston and beat a team that won over a hundred games this year? Do you feel like after winning a game here you're able to go to a place like Houston?  
YANDY DIAZ: We have to keep it in mind, we know they're a good team. Good matchup against us. We have to play the game we know how to play. We just have to keep the same mindset going into Houston.   
 Q.  When the ball cleared, you took a glance at the dugout. Where were you on the bases at that point?  
YANDY DIAZ: When I was rounding second base, I turned over to glance at the dugout, and that's when I saw everyone super excited.   
 Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about what the process was like getting back to this level after the injury, and did you think you'd be ready for playoff baseball?  
YANDY DIAZ: As everyone knows, I was out for two months, but I did everything I could in those two months to recover as quick as I could. Try to rush it at times to be ready to be here to play for the playoffs.   
 Q.  (Question in Spanish.)  
YANDY DIAZ: He likes to throw on the outside edge, so I was trying to just go with it and hit a line drive, and just get a good pitch to hit, and luckily it went out.   
 Q.  A lot of people would say this is a game where you guys are two of the more unknown franchises. You guys are probably the real underdog going forward. Do you enjoy being in that role?  
YANDY DIAZ: Yeah, we've never been one of the favorites. We're always the underdogs. But we work hard and go out there and try to compete every day.   
 Q.  You had signed originally with the Indians and played two years in the Majors with them. What were your thoughts when they traded you?  
YANDY DIAZ: Yeah, I was a little surprised the Indians traded me. But I know going to Tampa Bay, they have a good young group, they play hard and they're out there to win, so I was pleased to be on this side.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT