FEDCUP WORLD GROUP II FIRST ROUND: BELARUS v USA
February 3, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
Olga Govortsova
Tatiana Poutchek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS WIDMAIER:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Victoria, I know you've played Christina before; it was sort of an injury situation.   Can you talk about playing her again and what you know of her going into this match.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yes.   Yeah, I played her one or two times.   I think she's a very good player.   Obviously young and coming up.   Has a lot of motivation, you know, playing in the home crowd.  
She's done some good results, played some good matches against top players and had few big wins, so she's a dangerous opponent.  
   
 Q.   Victoria, you and Serena have played many times.   Do you approach this match any differently being the world No. 1, being a Grand Slam champion this time, or is it facing Serena facing Serena no matter what?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, the first match I play against Christina, so I'm looking forward to that.   
Then we'll see after.   
   
 Q.   Tatiana, can you talk about how you made your decision about putting Olga in the second singles position?  
CAPTAIN POUTCHEK:   Well, well, let's put it that way:   I think this surface suits Olga best, so I decided to put her.   
   
 Q.   And same for the doubles pairing?  
CAPTAIN POUTCHEK:   Well, yes.   
   
 Q.   For Victoria and Olga, what's the mindset going into a tournament like this where you're playing singles and the next day or on Sunday you're playing singles and doubles in the same day?  
OLGA GOVORTSOVA:   Well, this is kind of new level for us, because I played Fed Cup for like three, four years, and we never pass that group in January.   So finally last year we did a great job.   
Well, it's different tournament than other WTA tournaments because it's whole team.   You have to be like a team all together.   I think we did a great job last year, and we're going to looking forward to do well another time.  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   As Olga said, I mean, we played before, and we actually played three matches in one day before in a different group, so it's not really new thing for us.  
But, you know, as mentioned in earlier question, Olga played a lot of matches for us over last couple of years, so I think that was also one of the main decisions that's been made.  
And we know each other forever, so it's easy to play doubles.   
   
 Q.   Victoria, I know I've had sort of a whirlwind past week or some.   Talk about that and what your experience has been like since arriving here in Worcester.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   My experience where?   
   
 Q.   In Worcester, the city.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It's been very short because I arrived only Thursday morning.   I just had a practice at the site yesterday and we had official dinner.  
So I haven't really seen or experienced anything yet except for the official things we have to do for the Fed Cup.   That's pretty much it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT