THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 24, 2006
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Paul, a European victory in Ireland.  What does that mean to an Irishman?
PAUL McGINLEY:  I'm so, so proud.  I'm very emotional.  It's just wonderful.  I'm proud not just for me and the team, but for the Irish people and the way they behaved this week, bar that clown on the last green.  I'm just very, very proud.  We put on a great show.  All credit to Dr. Smurfit and the Irish tourism board, but mostly obviously the team.  Monty was a great No. 1 again, but all credit goes to the captain.

Did Darren hole the winning putt?
Q.  No, nearly.  Henrik Stenson.
PAUL McGINLEY:  Okay, but still, very proud of everybody on the team and the captaincy and all that around it.
Q.  All the players have been talking about this atmosphere all this week.  Have you ever known anything like it?
PAUL McGINLEY:  No, obviously not for me as an Irishman.  I mean, the Belfry was a wonderful, wonderful thing to happen to me, but this makes me more proud.  You know, my host country, to be part of a winning team and to play a big role in it.
Q.  What do you think you and Darren and Padraig being part of this team has done for it?
PAUL McGINLEY:  It's been huge.  I mean, the first tee was just -- it's something I'll obviously never, ever forget.  It's just amazing.  And not just me, all the players.

I'm so proud to be Irish, I'm proud of the way the Irish people conducted themselves this week and all the people from all around Europe.
Q.  You came in this week struggling with your game a little bit and seemed to find it.  That must have been a relief.
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, I had a really good week's practice last week.  I had a good week in Sunningdale and figured out a lot of things in my game and what was going on.  I switched off my phone, just me and the golf ball and the dog, and I made a lot of progress there.  I came in here with a lot more confidence than I had for most of the season, and so proud to have played a part in a winning team.
Q.  That's three in a row for Europe, which hasn't been done before.  What's really been the key to the sustained success of the European team?
PAUL McGINLEY:  There's one reason and one reason only; it's talent.  Nobody understands how good this team is and how good our Tour is.  For the last two years I've been saying our European Tour was going to make this one the toughest ever because the standard is so good, the scoring is so good, we're playing for a lot of prize money.  George O'Grady has done a great job since he came over from Kent.

We still don't play for the same kind of money and crowds that they do in America, but we're getting there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT