BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
September 1, 2006
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The two days you've had haven't gone right, a bit of tension?
PAUL McGINLEY:  That's what it looks like, looks like there's tension.  My golf game, I'm not playing very well.  That's about it really.
Q.  It looked as though you were not driving it particularly straight and you were not pitching particularly it well and not putting well; that's about it?
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, throw the irons in there; yeah, I struggled.  I'm not playing well, I'm struggling and my results obviously show that.  You know, I did my best but it's not good enough.  I've got some work to do and I'm just struggling with my game.

You say it's the pressure, yeah, but two years ago I had a whole lot more pressure on me than I did had year and came through it.  I really don't think the pressure is the problem.  I'm struggling with the game, I've lost my confidence, struggling with my swing and my putting is very, very mediocre and I have to sort it out.
Q.  The three players that could pass you are not exactly excelling here, and it looks as though you are going to make the team.  So between now and the Ryder Cup presuming you make it, what can you do?
PAUL McGINLEY:  I work on it.  I'm in the game long enough now to know that it turns around very quickly, a bit of confidence, a bit of work.  I'll go see Bob Torrance; I'll spend a bit of time.  I'm not sure, I haven't looked at the scores, it will be extraordinary if I didn't make it to be honest but I think that's been the case at the start of the week.  You talk about the pressure being on me; I haven't felt a lot of pressure to be honest.  Two years ago there was a huge amount of pressure on me and I came through this.

Year, honestly it was quite    it will be quite an upturn of form and everything else if somebody did pass me, but it is possible but it's unlikely.
Q.  Padraig playing alongside you said that when this monkey is off your back of having to qualify for the team that that might be the key to actually releasing your golf and playing better?
PAUL McGINLEY:  When has he ever been right?  (Laughter) I just hope to God that is the case because I want to get back to playing golf again.  I've been playing very mediocre and it's not good enough.  I'm a much better player than that.  I haven't proved it over the summer.  I've had a mediocre summer and hopefully when this Ryder Cup is out of the way, the qualification process, I'll go back to playing the golf I'm capable of doing.
Q.  Going into the Ryder Cup not playing well, you turned it around almost on the week to playing really well come Sunday; is that an indication of what you can do in the space of a short time?
PAUL McGINLEY:  Sure, it's all been proved in my results.  And we all know how fickle form is and my form hasn't been good.  It will turn, it's a question of when it will turn, and maybe the Ryder Cup, you know, if I do get to play, will ignite it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT