SMURFIT KAPPA EUROPEAN OPEN
July 9, 2006
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL McGINLEY:  That was really stupid.  And then had myself tied, three birdies coming in, you get to six, you never know what might happen.
Q.  What about the approach into the 18th?
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, I mean, I drove it in the rough.  I didn't have a very good lie so I couldn't take an unplayable.  So I managed to get it back in play and managed to get a 4 iron down there.  That's a tough shot.  I was playing an 8 iron, probably a 9 iron yardage, but with the wind howling off the left, pin on the right, I had to take a shot on and I hit an 8 iron and hooked it in the right hand side and hooked it into the wind to hold it.  And obviously I hit it close, great shot and great way to finish.
Q.  Obviously a bonus for you to be here this weekend and even better bonus now?
PAUL McGINLEY:  I'm very fortunate.  I think 2 over par, when I left the golf course at two or 3 o'clock on Friday afternoon, you don't get in at 91st with only three or four hours to play to go and fortunately I did and I took advantage of it.

The strong wind over the weekend played to my advantage and my ball control was wonderful.  Played the best two rounds over the weekend tee to green that I've played for a long, long time.  That gives me more pleasure to any kind of finish that I have because I feel like I can play the shots again.
Q.  Your second shot?
PAUL McGINLEY:  I didn't have a good lie in the rough and I was trying to chase a 4 iron up and sort of came out a bit heavy to be honest.
Q.  Inaudible?
PAUL McGINLEY:  I hope so.  It's one week.  If I'm going to make the Ryder Cup Team, I've got to play much better, bottom line.  I haven't been playing well enough to make it the last six months.  This is two good rounds.  I've got to keep going and keep reducing    over the weekend and I've got to keep producing.
Q.  Chance for a playoff?
PAUL McGINLEY:  As I say, I'm up against it, but you never know.  Obviously the clubs aren't put away and we'll see what happens.
Q.  Inaudible?
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yesterday, as I said, more than anything it was the way I played.  A lot of times I've done that and normally that's my game, I'll wear the golf course down hitting fairways and greens and yesterday I played my game again and it was nice to see it back.
Q.  Do you feel a weight lifted off?
PAUL McGINLEY:  Oh, not really.  I mean, everybody thinks that it gave me a massive boost.  The golf I played yesterday    the last three cuts I've made them on the mark or by a shot and if I was going to get a boost, I don't know if making a cut is what gave me a boost.  It was the way I played yesterday.

I started out yesterday, I hit two shots down the first hole and got off to a    I lost it again, a pitfall but then I got it back again.  The more I play golf, the more my confidence came back and it's been a while since I played with confidence so that was nice.
Q.  Inaudible?
PAUL McGINLEY:  Well, Woosie has been great, put a word in my ear obviously.  As I said yesterday his role as captain has started in earnest at the moment.  There's a lot of players jostling for position    inaudible    is another guy who is going to make a bit of run with a bit of confidence as well, too.

As I said from the very start, this is the strongest European Team ever because the standard on Tour is so incredibly high.  There's so many good players that can make the team plus the guys that made the team last time, with the record victory in Oakland Hills, we all want to be on it as well.  I think it's going to be a hell of a strong team.
Q.  What did Woosie say to you?
PAUL McGINLEY:  He had a word in my ear.  I don't want to say what he said.  He had a word in my ear and as I say, did everything a captain should do.  He was supportive but he wasn't on my case.  That's exactly what you want.  You don't need pressure from a captain and he certainly didn't do it.
Q.  Inaudible?
PAUL McGINLEY:  If my plane wasn't delayed    I'm very, very fortunate to make the cut, there's no question about it.  I don't even think in all my years I've been playing I've seen a golfer from 91 make the cut.  They were difficult conditions but they weren't unbelievable.
Q.  91 to Top 5 finish, or better?
PAUL McGINLEY:  Well, we'll just see what happens.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT