VOLVO MASTERS
October 29, 2005
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You played some fabulous golf this year; where does that round rank?

PAUL McGINLEY:  Certainly one of the best, yeah.  I'm quite pleased and played good golf.  You've got to play really well around here and I did today.  Got a little lucky on 17, my ball didn't spin back on the in the water, but what do you do?  You put your putter to the the green and it spins more off the slope.  It's hard to know what to do.
Q.  4 over par through 23 holes and a massive turnaround, no bogeys, ten birdies since.

PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, a double and a triple in the first seven holes the first day.  Other than that, it would be a 69 the first day and would have been a good score.  I've played well except for really two holes that have really hurt me badly.  I still feel I played badly compared to the field.  It's just Monty is the one that has sort of stretched away from everybody.
Q.  Seven strokes behind as we speak, what are the hopes for tomorrow?

PAUL McGINLEY:  Just have to wait and see what he finished at.  Hopefully gets within striking distance.  But he's obviously full of confidence, he loves playing around here, and this place has been very good to him in the past.  He'll be tough to beat.
Q.  You said a few months ago, you wanted to get your work done early this time, you seem to be going along with that.

PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, a long, long way to go though.  There's a huge amount of money    there's a lot here but there's a lot every week.  Doesn't matter how big the money is, as long as I'm playing well.

It's not just motivation, just professional attitude and going out and doing it again.  Other than the double and the triple, I feel I played quite decent here Thursday, but two holes killed me.  I got the wrong side of the pins and could not keep the chips on the greens and paid the penalty.  My ball control has been good enough to keep the ball on the right side of the pin since.
Q.  What was your best round here?

PAUL McGINLEY:  I think I had a 66 in the American Express here but I stand to be corrected on that.
Q.  Your thoughts on Monty's comeback in the season?

PAUL McGINLEY:  All credit to him.  He's accelerated in the last month when he's got a sniff of winning it and all credit to him.  I think he's fortunate that he's playing a golf course that he absolutely loves.  Just like St. Andrews has been particularly good to him this year, three quarters of the money he's won has been on one venue.  And Valderrama has been very good to him in the past, but he's taken advantage of that and all credit to him.
Q.  Do you think he will come back?

PAUL McGINLEY:  The guy is far from done.
Q.  How about your own goals for tomorrow?

PAUL McGINLEY:  Just keep playing well.  A lot will depend on how Monty does and how far ahead he gets.  Just have to see how the balls fall tomorrow and see where everybody is and take it from there.  There's a long road ahead.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT