PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2005
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL McGINLEY:  Darren was just telling me coming off the green, I holed a 25 footer for birdie on the third hole, I holed a 12 footer for a par somewhere else.  But other than that, I haven't holed a putt outside of four feet.  Can't be tough to play a major championship doing that.

Having said that, I had only one 3 putt all week.
Q.  Where was that?
PAUL McGINLEY:  On the second hole, and that was from 15 feet down the hill.  Nearly holed the first one, missed it coming back.

So, I mean, it's not like me, you know, it's not like I'm hitting bad putts.  I'm hitting good putts.  There's a goalkeeper in there and he's playing great.
Q.  Were you hitting them close enough?
PAUL McGINLEY:  I'm hitting it as close as anybody in the field.  I'm watching a bit of golf on TV, and the boys are not hitting it in stiff because the greens are firm now.  They are holing 15 footers and 10 footers and 8 footers, and I've had more opportunities for that, I've had countless opportunities.  I've had a lot.

The big positive I'm taking away this year is I've played three major championships, I've putted very moderately in all three, and I'm still going to be within ten shots of winning each of them.  So I walk away with the feeling that if I can put them where I know I can put them, a lot is achievable.
Q.  So you must be doing a lot right.
PAUL McGINLEY:  I'm holing nothing.  But I'm missing nothing    all of the 2  and 3 footers I'm knocking in the hole, right in the center every time.  But the 12 , 15 , 20 , 30 , 40 footers, they haven't been in the hole this week.  On these greens you should be holing more than what you would normally.  The greens are so pure, they really are.  From 20 feet, you know, these greens are so pure, they really are.  They are really great.  I have to say I've struggled reading the greens this week, I've really struggled.  They are normally one of my strengths.
Q.  A stupid question, but do you enjoy yourself when you're out there in the heat?
PAUL McGINLEY:  I had a great Irish crowd watching me.  They were great.  It's been so great.

Very hard to play a major championship making so few birdies.  Again, one of the positives I take away is how patient I remained with nothing going my way and to still finish where I'm going to finish, 23rd, 25th, to remain as patient as I did with absolutely nothing I go away.  That's something I couldn't have done four or five years ago.
Q.  What's difference between here and Whistling Straits?
PAUL McGINLEY:  I played better this week than Whistling Straits.  I had more opportunities this week.  Whistling Straits, I holed putts, I had a couple of chip ins.

I feel I've played pretty decent all summer yet I haven't finished below 30th position.  It's just down to one thing, I've putted very moderately all summer.  You get in position, you've got to score the goal.  The best I've ever putted in a tournament was the PGA this year, Wentworth.  I haven't had a decent putting tournament since.  It's amazing.  Nothing wrong with my stroke, it's a mental thing.  I haven't read the greens well this week.

Having said that, I've stuck a lot of good putts this week, whereas Deutsche Bank I played poorly.  I hit a lot of bad putts this week.  I'm realistic about my shots.  I wish I'd had made more putts this week.  Just hard to see the lines.  There's more slope in the greens in Akron so you can see the greens better.  These greens are not hugely slopey.  They are very subtle.  I've had an off week this week.
Q.  The goalkeeper.
PAUL McGINLEY:  Goalkeeper is playing great, yeah.
Q.  See any of the Dubs last night?
PAUL McGINLEY:  No, I read it on the Internet.  It was great, yeah.  Great, well played.  They showed a lot of character this year.  They have come back in nearly, actually all the games they have played, that's the thing.  It's great for their confidence that they are showing character.  It's great for the character of their team that they have come back each time when they have really needed it.

Next I'll be at Akron and BMW.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT