BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2005
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Good effort.
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, good effort.  I was just not good enough at the end of the day.  I mean, Cabrera has obviously played fantastic.  I thought I played fantastic, but I because just beaten by somebody who played better with a two shot advantage starting out.  If I lost it, you could point to the fact that maybe if I played better yesterday, I would have shot a better score, but it's disappointing to not have one.  I only had one intention this week, and that was winning.
Q.  You're quite down.
PAUL McGINLEY:  I'm disappointed.  I'm disappointed, yeah.  It's a big title.  It would have been a great win for me.  I'm disappointed.
Q.  You must have felt through the turn that you had the momentum.
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, he's still with me the whole way, remember.  I never got near the lead.  If I did, it was a shot and it was back to level.  And, you know, I'm disappointed, yes, I am disappointed.  But I gave it my best shot, but at the end of the day, I wasn't good enough.  He played better.  All credit to him, he's played better.
Q.  What about the positives?
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yes, there is a lot of positives.
Q.  You're Top 50 in the world.
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, there are a lot of those things, but everything is in context ahead of this week and it's a pretty emotional weekend to say the least.
Q.  You're thinking about Darren?
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, of course, of course.  It's a very tough situation.  I don't know, I mean
Q.  Did you find it difficult
PAUL McGINLEY:  Well, Ali and her are very good friends.
Q.  And the children?
PAUL McGINLEY:  And the children obviously.  They go to school in the same class together.  We're very close and to the Clarkes.  I'm close to Darren as you know, so to see what they are going through, it tears the heart out of you.  I was going to    I wanted to win this for her today, I really did.  So, it just wasn't to be, it wasn't to be.  I played well, he's played better, and it's his week.
Q.  Can you give us the details, the birdies on the front nine?
PAUL McGINLEY:  I got the putter hot, 30 feet on 3.  Five feet on 4.  20 feet on 5.  20 feet on 6.  Four feet on 8.  Four feet on 12.  Drove it on the lip of the bunker on 16.  Missed it right, which you can't do, you can't miss it right there, hit a good shot, misread it.

17 the same, and it's behind the tree.  I hit a lob wedge over the tree.  Second shot couldn't get any distance on the second shot, and thought I hit a good third shot only got caught in the rough with a 4 iron, 218 yards.  Again, hit a brilliant putt, thought it was going to go in, just stayed on the high side and the last was a 3 wood, 5 wood.

I really wanted to win this.  I really wanted to win this.  I've said before, my career is not going to be    I'm not happy with the wins that I've had.  I feel I deserve better.  I feel I've played well enough to win the Volvo Masters when Padraig birdied the last to beat me.  I've played well in the big events.  It's not a question that I've not played well this those events.  I don't feel I'm back backed into second position at any stage.  It's just somebody has played better than me.  Padraig played better than me, holed a big putt to beat me.  And Cabrera has obviously played fantastic today.  He made an eagle on 4, which was a huge boost, huge, massive boost for him.  As I say, you've got to give him credit, well played.
Q.  Did you hear from Darren before you went out?
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, we talked a lot.  It's been a tough weekend, not very much sleep, that's all I can say.

But, you know, she's a fighter.  You've got to hand it to her, she's a fighter, and so you know, she's just a really good girl.  That much you can be certain.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT