WGC WORLD CUP
November 19, 2004
Padraig Harrington
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Your day didn't quite go to plan.  What happened?
PAUL McGINLEY:  A large part of the problem was it just wasn't our day.  Yesterday things went our way and today they didn't.  Didn't seem to be able to get afoot early onto get ourselves going.  Then we were doing well, we were 3-under for the day playing 16, which is really a hole you want to birdie.  But we made double so it's like a triple there.  You take three shots off our score, we shot 68; pretty good considering things didn't go our way.
Q.  You spoke about the importance of momentum yesterday.  Is it difficult to get momentum going in foursomes particularly?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I don't think it's any tougher than a normal round of golf.  You know, at the end of the day, if you make birdies, hole putts, it doesn't matter who does it on the team, you feel good about it.  You know, I would say if we made more birdies, we would have had more momentum.  But I think we are pretty good in this format.  It's just that sort of day and you know we stuck in there, and it was, you know, it was unlucky to mess up at the end.
Q.  You said you were going well through 15 holes, were you surprised at the scoring you were seeing on the board?
PAUL McGINLEY:  I see Paul Casey was obviously putting for England, and when Paul gets hot with his putter he's really hot.  The way this course worked out, I was the one putting on the first nine holes and I had a lot of birdie pits.  If I had my putter, I would be doing something similar.  Paul can get really hot, and I'm sure that's what he did.

It was funny the way it worked out, putting nine holes in a row.  That's just the way the course works out.  If the guy doing most of the putting gets hot, you'll do well.
Q.  You must be confident about shooting a low one tomorrow?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Oh, yeah, without a doubt.  You know it seems in general most people are going to shoot somewhere between 8- and 12-under in the four-ball and it does seem like the foursomes is the key.

PAUL McGINLEY:  It wasn't our day.  Things were not going for us the way they were yesterday.  We were hanging in and battling, considering it was not one of our up days and one hole put a real score, if we make birdies we shoot 68 and it's one of the two or three better scores of the day and we would have followed up a good day yesterday with a good one today.   But I know we are not a million miles today and there's two days of golf left.
Q.  What do you do on a day like that?
PAUL McGINLEY:  You've just got to be patient and not forcing it.  You know, just hang in and keep battling and that's what we did.  We're battling and holing putts for pars from four or five feet, really nasty ones.  We were not really threatening birdies.  You've just got to hang in, and you're not going to have every day you play golf is like yesterday where everything holes in and you hole bunker shots and long putts and momentum is going and one thing after another.

The weird thing is there are days you have to battle and today was one of those days and we nearly did it.  We nearly shot a 68 battling, which we would have been as happy with that as we would have been with 60 yesterday if we'd have shot 68 today.  But one hole cost us.
Q.  What happened there?

PAUL McGINLEY:  I hit a bad pitch shot.  I left myself -- I had been pitching the ball great and I just, I mean it was a semi skin shot.  I hit is just a bit thin and obviously, you know, when you're battling and when things aren't going -- he runs up against the bank bunker he has no bunker shot.  That's the kind of day we were having.  Things went wrong for us.  Padraig plugged it completely under the lip on No. 7.  It was an unbelievable shot just to get out of the bunker.  Where the golfing gods shined on us yesterday, it wasn't the case today.  If we'd shot 68 which we nearly did, we would have been very chirpy here to be honest.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Days like today give you more satisfaction than days like yesterday where you're battling to score 68.  But it didn't happen and we've got to take it on the chin and dust ourselves out and go again tomorrow.

PAUL McGINLEY:  It's unbelievable the way it turns out with putting.  I putted every hole on the front nine, and you know, it was unbelievable the way it turned out.  That's what I say, I mean, Casey is a really streaky putter and I'm not surprised that England can shoot that score if he gets really hot.

It just wasn't our day.  As I say, we very nearly got away with it and that would have give us a lot of pleasure if we'd got away with it.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Probably as much pleasure as 60 yesterday.  Today was a battle and things weren't going great.  We're not a million miles away.

PAUL McGINLEY:  Dust ourselves off tomorrow.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  As I said yesterday, you can play foursomes golf, you can shoot 71 without playing badly and that's what we did today.  You know, that's the nature of the game.  As I said we were struggling along, it was a break to make the eagle on the 13th -- 4-iron, 206.  16 was the one that's tough to take but that's the game.
Q.  What did you have?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I had 213 to the flag, just 3-iron.
Q.  What kind of a stance?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Below my feet.  The ball is sitting up in some rough and I just got it high in the club face.  I needed to hit a I nearly hit a good shot but it wasn't even a question of being makeable.  If it was only just makeable, I would not have taken it on.  I'm just reasonably happy with it.  You know, I wasn't -- I could have hit 4-iron from the lie.

PAUL McGINLEY:  I was being cautious hitting 3-iron.  As I said I just got it on ton -- hit it up on top of the club face and didn't get a flight out of it.  The ball was, you know probably sitting too high in the grass.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT