ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
September 1, 2013
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you reflect on the week as a whole? 
PAUL McGINLEY:   A lot of good golf, no doubt about that.   I'm very disappointed with yesterday, a lot of mistakes.   Didn't play terribly badly but managed myself and managed the course badly yesterday and didn't stick to my game plan and I paid the price.

Q.   Tell us about today and how it it's been set up. 
PAUL McGINLEY:   It's not as difficult as yesterday.   That northwest wind yesterday was in off the left on a lot of holes yesterday and made it difficult.
Today it's difficult but it's not as difficult as it was yesterday.   I think there's opportunity to score out there, there's no doubt about that.

Q.   Is there a 64 or 65 for those guys chasing the leader? 
PAUL McGINLEY:   Well, I nearly did it, so yeah.   Two bogeys, and haven't holed a huge amount of putts; I could have holed more, so it is on.   Somebody is going to have to do it but you never know.   Standard nowadays on Tour now, you know what it's like; you wouldn't discount anybody.
Like a school report, very good at times and sometimes fell asleep with my school report at school, and that's what I did yesterday, there's no doubt about it.   I'm disappointed with myself yesterday.   Okay, it wasn't a day‑‑ it wasn't a day where things were going for me and it was a difficult day with the weather, but to shoot 6‑over par, taking yourself out of the tournament, and that's disappointing.   Even if I had kept it around par or 1‑ or 2‑over, it would have had a chance today, but wasn't to be.   It was good to come back today so I'm pleased with that.

Q.   Not the thunderous final round you shot last year, but you certainly moved yourself into a nice position come what may. 
PAUL McGINLEY:   I did.   If I had birdied down the last it would have been thunderous.   I'm very disappointed with the last; the one place not to hit it, those bunkers.   And then when you plug in the face, it's just a penalty shot and I paid the price.

Q.   Kind of nice when it is a week when there is the focus on The Ryder Cup inevitably but that you're actually showing your own prowess again, isn't it? 
PAUL McGINLEY:   Well, as I say I think it's an important part of my duty that I stay competitive on Tour, try to play as well as I can, and that gives me more opportunity to play with the potential players in groups and stuff like that. 
I played with Ross Fisher today.   He's an ex‑player in The Ryder Cup around here, and that's the kind of experience that I want to pick up in terms of playing over the next sort of 14 months, 13 months.

Q.   Are you good at compartmentalising, shoving one thing to the side, putting Ryder Cup to the background and getting on with your game? 
PAUL McGINLEY:   Well, we'll see.   The last two weeks have been really busy off the course and I've played reasonably well although I should have‑‑ my finishing positions again should have been better than the quality golf I played. 
But you know what, there's a lot of improvement from where I have been playing and unfortunately we are nearly at the end of season in terms of tournaments I'm going to be playing in but there's still hope that hopefully I can keep playing well and get a few good finishes before the year is out.

Q.   Obviously no Johnnie Walker Championship next season, and this date is close to it, would this be a venue or an event that could be the closing event for your qualification? 
PAUL McGINLEY:   Could be.   I don't know where the Tour have decided regarding to that.   I would be very happy with that.   It's an ex‑Ryder Cup course, it's in superb condition this year and there's no reason why next year it shouldn't be the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT