ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 30, 2013
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL McGINLEY:   I'm pleased.   It was a tough, tough afternoon, there's no doubt about it.   The guys yesterday afternoon had it tough, and I can see now why the scoring was so moderate.   It was a tough golf course.
I played well today.   The wind was a real challenge to me.   I enjoy the wind to be honest.   Found the par3s particularly difficult, all the particular threes were in the one direction into the wind and they were all 2‑irons and 3‑irons, and so there was a lot of challenges in respect to the par 3s.   But I enjoyed the wind and I enjoy the challenge of the wind?

Q.   As an observer, doesn't feel that bad, and you're in shirt sleeves, but it's tricky wind and the pin positions are difficult?
PAUL McGINLEY:   I think the golf course is very strong.   I think that's the ultimate string.   It's a really strongly designed golf course, a lot of water and hazards and if you're a little off‑line, you can get in some serious trouble.   I think the real challenge of the golf course, even with moderate weather conditions, it will still be a tough golf course off the back tees and tough pins.

Q.   Memories go back to last year, you're right up there competing. 
PAUL McGINLEY:   Played well here last year.   I learned a lot from watching The Ryder Cup players around here to be honest.   They educated me as to how to play the golf course.   I had a pretty poor record around it, and I learned a lot watching how the guys went about it in The Ryder Cup.

Q.   With your captain's hat on, you've played alongside two of the youngsters in the first two days, your impressions? 
PAUL McGINLEY:   Two very strong players, extremely strong.   I can see why they have been as successful as they have, winning The Challenge Tour and winning the Tour school, and both of them are up there as well, too, and both of them will like me be hoping for a good weekend.

Q.   And with Espen in particular, good to hold it together, isn't it?
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, it was if you have for him today leading the tournament for the first time and going out today in very breezy conditions.   I thought he played some wonderful shots today. 
Second shot he hit to the first hole, No. 11, was as good a 3‑wood as I've ever seen ever in my life.   He's got all the talent in the world, there's no doubt about that.   He's a young kid and getting experienced all the time and onwards and upwards for him.

Q.   Have you told him that?
PAUL McGINLEY:   I did.   I said, that was a very, very, very good shot. 

Q.   Under par scores were difficult to find, pleased with yours? 
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, obviously tough, with the wind but to be honest I enjoy the wind.   I wished there was wind last week in Gleneagles.   It was a challenge, there's no doubt about it.   I think the thing that was really difficulty found with the par 3s, every par 3 was into the wind so the par3s were particularly tough.   I think I dropped two shots on those but it was a tough day. 
You had to be patient, even the holes downwind where the bunkers were, I mean, I couldn't‑‑ No.2, for example, was 300 over the bunker, and I can't carry over the bunker.   So still had to play it up.   It was a tough day and understandable why the scoring is moderate.

Q.   Have you felt a good performance in total coming through?
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, I've been playing well for a few months now to be honest.   I played really well at The Scottish Open.   Played kind of well at Wentworth and played pretty decent last week all with pretty average results.   I could do with a good result to be honest.

Q.   What about going forward this weekend, how do you feel about your chances?   Nice to be in the mix and feel the juices flowing?
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, I played lovely control golf.   Hopefully the wind will blow a little bit at the weekend.   I think that's going to make it tough.   I think it's a tough course anyway but it's very bunched as most fields are now on The European Tour. 
You are going to have probably eight shots between the leader again and the cut all very bunched.   So I'm aware that a bad score will take me out of it and a good score will keep me right up there.   That's the way it is on The European Tour nowadays, if you're just a little off the boil, you can fall back very quickly.

Q.   We know how busy you've been in recent weeks, other captains have told us it's quite a distraction and not been able to focus on their own game; how are you finding that?
PAUL McGINLEY:   Understand their challenge.   I understand the challenge.   When they told me initially, I thought I can do it all, but there's no doubt, it's difficult. 
But at the same time I don't want to use the captaincy as an excuse to have a poor run of form this year and next year on the Tour.   And I'm determined to play well.   The better I play, the more big tournaments I get into, the more big tournaments I get into, the more I'm around the players and that's a real motivating factor for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT