BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2012
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PAUL McGINLEY:   Obviously the big, gaping thing in the week is what happened yesterday, five 3‑putts.   I don't think I've ever had five 3‑putts in a round of golf in my life before.   I lost my speed on the greens and lost my confidence.   But that was a good reaction today to come back and shoot the score I did today, so I'm pleased.  
Obviously I've got to give some thought as to what happened yesterday:   Why did I lose my speed, why did I lose my confidence.   I'll give some thought to that over the next few days but get ready for next week.   
But it was a good reaction today.   I had a good think about my putting last night, and the greens were ‑‑ a bit of moisture on the greens today.   They were not as dry as they were yesterday, and when there's a bit of moisture on them, they run a bit smoother.  
   
 Q.   These are difficult conditions once again?   I know we've had varying conditions all across the week.   
PAUL McGINLEY:   Difficult conditions, difficult breeze.   Yeah, to be honest, I like the breeze so I I'm hoping it's going to be breezy next week, as well, too, which I think there's a good chance of that.  
   
 Q.   I presume you take satisfaction from the face you've pulled yourself back into the good placings.  
PAUL McGINLEY:   Very much so, yeah, very much so.   Looks like it will be a Top‑10 again, and that will be three Top‑10s in four tournaments and a long time since I've done that.   
It's a real thrill to be playing good golf again and to be back up at the right end of the leaderboard.   It's been a few barren years and it's a real thrill and a lot of excitement.  
   
 Q.   And to elaborate on Portrush, it's good to go there in good form?  
PAUL McGINLEY:   It's good to go there in good form.   I'm looking forward to it.   It's one of my favourite golf courses in the whole world.   I've played there a lot over the years and played there last month with my son.   I'm really looking forward to playing it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT