BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2012
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Lovely round of golf, and a sweet finish that will make the dinner taste better?   
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, that's a great finish that's what it was, turned a good day into a great day with a 3, 3, 3 finish.  
   
 Q.   Seeing the scoring and the way this course is playing, you know what you can go and do and what to expect but different than doing it; how delighted are you with the opening round?  
PAUL McGINLEY:   That's right, but the course is yielding birdies.   I've been saying it for a long time, when a course is soft, no matter how long it is or how high the rough is, you're going to shoot good scores and you've got, like hit a 5‑iron today, can stop it on two yards.   When you get that standard of golf that we have on The European Tour, you're going to have low scoring.  
Normally we play here in October when the greens are a lot firmer and this is as soft as I've seen the greens, obviously with the rain lately.   
   
 Q.   Playing great in Wales, how pleased were you with your form heading into this week?   
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, I've had two weeks off, which will be nice after Wales, Wales was great, to be able to finish high up with a good round on Sunday, and played well in Ballantine's.   Had a nice run of form the last couple of months.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like it's coming around and this round has been in the cards for a while?   
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, but it's only one round, there's three more to go and a good finish, as well.   It's a good start and I'm pleased with that.  
   
 Q.   A strong field, as you said, good golf course; how do you assess things now three rounds together?  
PAUL McGINLEY:   Exactly, three rounds to go, that's how I assess it.   A long way to go, day been a good day.   Eagle on 7 on that hole, all my life I haven't been able to get it on the green in two and now I can get it on the green with the new technology and that was fun to be able to do that.   
Today was a good day and following it up with three good rounds is what's important.   
   
 Q.   All of this on a less than ideal start to the day.   
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, it wasn't it bad to be honest.   We were warned about it before we left the hotel and luckily, unlike me, I had given myself a lot of time.   Normally I'm lastminute.com but today I had two hours before my tee time when I left the hotel luckily.   
So, it was okay.   I was still here an hour and a half, an hour and 20 minutes before my tee time after going through corn fields and all kind to get here.   But I think it's a great problem to have that we have crowds like this at a European Tour event.   We will have the same next week and I'm not one bit concerned about it.   I think it's great news that we have crowds like this coming to an event.  
   
 Q.   I take it you've never had to cross fields to get to an event before?   
PAUL McGINLEY:   No.   I had a problem a few years ago in Madrid which there was an EC meeting and they closed all the roads around the hotel, and the courtesy car couldn't get in and I couldn't get out and I ended up running about a mile and a taxi to get to the course.   That's the only other time I've been close to it.   
But this was okay, I was an hour and 20 before my tee time when I got here today.   As I say it's a great problem for The European Tour to have crowds like this and next week will be the same.   
   
 Q.   You have a pedigree here?  
PAUL McGINLEY:   I've played well in the past, yes.   Normally a different golf course.   Normally a bit firmer and there's obviously a bit of wind, but yeah, I've had some good finishes, I can't remember what, but I've had some good finishes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT