ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
June 3, 2012
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, we saw you took special care in the scorer's area with that score.   It was a pretty special day, wasn't it? 
PAUL McGINLEY:   My score was okay.   I was checking the leaderboard on the TV there.   If I would have made that putt on 18, I'd have an outside chance of a playoff.   But you never know.   Those last three holes are very tough.

Q.   What was the spark that brought that on?
PAUL McGINLEY:   I played really well all week to be honest.   Wednesday and Thursday are probably as good as I ever played in my life.   I played marvellous.   I didn't score as well.   I guess I could probably say the same all three days, I played much better than I scored and today I probably scored a little better than I played. 

Q.   SKY is claiming credit with all of the guys like yourself, you and Thomas Björn and Paul Lawrie, guys who worked for SKY and suddenly became better players.   You get a glimpse of the TV world and you don't want to do it.   Surely there must be something that rededicated you to your career?
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, there's no doubt, I have got a really clear focus.   I'm really focussed this year and spent a lot of time last few years setting up businesses and that's gone very well.   I've got seven golf courses under construction at the moment and that's taken up a lot of time but to be honest it's worked in my favour, because it's given me a freshness when I play golf. 
I haven't played a whole lot, but I've played well in all my tournaments so far this year and hopefully I can keep that up.

Q.   Something really special, today your kids were walking around with you.   I hear a lot of champions say that their kids were young when they were winning tournaments but I suppose there's an importance to keep on showing it to them that you're a winner. 
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, might have a little bit of an Indian summer in my career, I'm 45 years old now so there's still a chance for me to do some good.   They are starting to play golf.   We are actually going to Portugal on holiday for five days, and we'll play golf every day.   The little one keeps the score.   It's always a lot of fun.

Q.   Will you hang around just a little while longer? 
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, my flight's not until 7.30 tonight.   Of course I will, because that finish is really tough.   But I would say a ten percent chance of a playoff but you never know.

Q.   The wrist is okay?
PAUL McGINLEY:   I think because, as I say, because I've played less, it's better.   The more I played, the end of last year, it got sore after a big long season.   Trying to pace myself a bit more this year.   I'm not doing as much gym work.   I'm doing more swimming, more loosening out and less emphasis on muscle and more on flexibility. 

Q.   You don't need any more surgery?
PAUL McGINLEY:   At the moment, no.   I will do in the future.

Q.   Are you still ambitious? 
PAUL McGINLEY:   Yeah, of course, I mean, still, as I say, I played very well this year with my play so far, maybe not the heights in terms of results but I've certainly played well and there's a freshness to me and a focus to me. 
The businesses that I've spent time doing are up and running now and things are going well.   That's been a lot of fun doing but that's given me a real freshness when I have gone to practise and when I have gone to play.

Q.   Ballantine's you finished well.   That must have boosted your confidence. 
PAUL McGINLEY:   That, and I played well in Qatar, even though I missed the cut by a shot, didn't putt very well.   And then I played great in Sicily and missed the cut and played unbelievable, but putted horrendously.   But I've putted better the last few weeks, and hence, the score is a bit better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT