JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 26, 2010
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A terrific round of golf, what pleased you most about your play today?
 PAUL McGINLEY: I played good, which it hasn't been the case for most of the season. Found a bit of form at the Irish Open. Played really well at the Irish Open. Had three weeks off and been working in the gym every day. 
 So I'm just delighted it's gone well today. I drove the ball very well and I putted nicely and steadily even though I had a couple of 3-putts. 

 Q. New driver?
 PAUL McGINLEY: New driver, new TaylorMade and I just put it in the bag yesterday in the Pro-Am and went out in the front nine and thought, okay -- let's go with this. I hit some good drives. The two boys I'm playing with today were very long and I wasn't that far behind, so I'm pleased about that. 

 Q. Inevitably I'm going to ask you to put your Ryder Cup vice captain hat on, Mr. McGowan an had to pull out, confirming Francesco Molinari's place on the team. How big of an asset is he?
 PAUL McGINLEY: Huge. He's had a great season. He reminds me a lot about myself when I made my teams, he's been very consistent, seems to be Top-10 every week, there and thereabouts and he'll be a great asset because he's a guy that can blend with anybody, great personality, easy going, no big problems, no big dramas with him. So he'll be an easy guy to play with whoever plays with him.

 Q. How much involvement are the vice captains having in the decision? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: Monty said he would ask us and bounce some ideas off, but the end of the day, my opinion will be, myself, Darren, Thomas will have sort of 50 percent and Monty will have 50. It's his call at the end of it. I'm sure he has an idea which way he'll go come Saturday. He might change one or two of his decisions but in general it's going to be his choice and rightly choice. 
 We are there as a backup and sound board if he wants any advice, and I'm sure he will make some good decisions. He can't make bad decisions to be honest, there are so many great players, that, yes, there will be players disappointed but it will also be a very strong team. Whoever he picks, will be very strong so he can't get it wrong to be honest. 

 Q. Clarke, McGinley, Montgomerie, Björn, in a room, trying to make a very difficult decision; you could be in there a while, couldn't you? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: It's going be to fun. We are going to Monty's house for dinner on Saturday night. So, yeah, it's going to be fun. I'm looking forward to it actually. It's part of the thing about Ryder Cups that I love, as well. It's not just the playing, the playing is fantastic, we all know that.
 But I love the team; I love the team meetings; I love the dramas that go on behind the scenes. We are all in the room together, all of the captains and assistants sitting together and I love the pageantry that goes with it and the American National Anthem. I get a chill when they play that, as well, too. It's great. I love to see the Americans being proud of their country as much as we are. That is what makes The Ryder Cup so special. 

 Q. New driver?
 PAUL McGINLEY: I only missed one fairway which was great. I missed, which fairway did I miss, I only missed one fairway. I drove the ball very well and that set me up for a good round. 

 Q. How many yards did you pick up? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: I don't know, but the two boys are quite long and I wasn't that far behind them. I hit it 282 or something up the hill on the last, which is a big drive for me uphill. I couldn't get home on that green in two. I hit two good shots as good as I could hit them to be five yards short of the green. It's a big golf course. I hit a lot of par 4s where I'm driving 5-irons which we don't do a whole lot of on Tour. I had half a dozen where I was hitting 5-iron to a par three or second shot to a par four. Overall a good round of golf. Any green that I did miss, missed it on the fringe and it was a straightforward up-and-down. I had two 3-putts, which were my two bogeys and other than that it was solid. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT