3 IRISH OPEN
July 29, 2010
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A wonderful opening round?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: It was, yeah. It was. I had a very difficult first putt on 18 there, left myself a bit too much work to do, hit a good second putt but I think I miss-read it.  
  
  Q. The rest of it wasn't bad though, was it?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: It was good. I had a great start. I made a 2 on the 6th with a 4-iron and next hole I fit 4-iron to a foot. Not often do you remember keep making it down in two from 220 yards.   
  
  Q. Expectations now this week?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: Not really, no. I'm not putting any pressure on myself. It's been a good day, yes, I played nicely. I didn't play fantastically well but I played nicely. I'm looking forward to the rest of the week.  
  
  Q. I want to ask you about the weather and the conditions, because it's very unlike our usual Irish Opens, isn't it?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: It's about time. That's all I can say. We have been dogged with bad weather for the Irish Open, and we all know the weather is not as bad as it's been every time we come here. So it's about time we get very good weather, and hopefully it will stay like this for the weekend because it will be great crowds if it does.   
  
  Q. Hot enough on the front nine.   
 PAUL McGINLEY: I was hot on the front nine, I was. You know, a little flourish there, 6 and 7; two, two, getting down twice, from 215 yards with a 4-iron, I hit it to 15 feet on the 6th and holed it and hit a 4-iron on the next hole to a foot for eagle. So 3-under for two holes was good. Set me up nicely.   
 Rest of the round I've played all right. I didn't play great. I played all right. So it's all right. Obviously the last was disappointing. Just coming right over the hump right there, it was a difficult first putt and I thought I hit a good second putt but obviously I miss-read it.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised some people didn't do even lower?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: No. There's a lot of tough holes out there. There's a lot of tough shots and a lot of tough pin positions, as well, too. I'm not surprised but the scoring, if the weather stays good, the scoring will get better as the week goes on, as guys familiarise themselves with the golf course. We haven't been here for so many years, '92 I think it was, so 18 years; I would say 90 per cent of the guys on the Tour still weren't around in 1992.   
 So when we come to a new golf course, there's a bit of familiarisation going on, so I still think there's obviously a lot of birdie chances out there, too, and the scoring will be good for the rest of the week.  
  
  Q. To be out on Thursday morning with an early tee time and that kind of crowd and conditions, must be a bit different to the regular Thursday morning?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: It does and it's about time we had some decent weather for the Irish Open. Must be ten years since we had a ten years since we had decent Irish Open in terms of weather or a European Open, or even Ryder Cup a bit of a hurricane went through the back of that.   
 So if any country is due a few days of good weather, it's Ireland, and there's nowhere better or more beautiful than Killarney.   
  
  Q. Happy with the way your game is for the next 54?   
 PAUL McGINLEY: I think the back nine is at least two shots tougher than the front nine; if you look at guys who are making scores, they all do it on the front nine. It's a really tough stretch of holes, 11, 12, 13, a lot of guys are going to drop shots there. The back nine is a bit tougher. As I say, it was a good back nine except for my 3-putt on the last. But that's the way it goes sometimes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT