DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 30, 2015
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This course has got the better of some of the top players in the world.   How have you found it over the three days?   
PAUL McGINLEY:   I think it's an incredible test of golf.   It's not a golf course I would have played a lot in my amateur days.   I kind of regret that because it's such a fabulous golf course and it's such a high premium on quality iron shots, driving the ball well, obviously chipping and putting and thinking your way around the golf course.   I know it's a bit cold.   If it wasn't so cold it would be perfect conditions, because the breeze has been there but it has not been too strong yet.  
   
 Q.   Today compared to the first two days, the difference?   
PAUL McGINLEY:   Well, I think the guys who started really early this morning had a real advantage because that first four or five holes was beautiful.   I started kind of 10.30, so the guys who started at eight had a big advantage, because it got worse as the day went on.   The wind, the last four or five holes, into the breeze, was really cold and very, very strong winds.  
   
 Q.   How important has this week been in terms of reestablishing The Irish Open as a big, big event on the European schedule?  
PAUL McGINLEY:   That's exactly what it's done is reestablish it.   I think we've done it really well the last couple of years.   Everyone has rallied together to have The Irish Open staying in the schedule and kept in the schedule and all credit to people who have done that; Rory's elevated status and No. 1 in the world and the pulling power that he can do in that position.   It's great that he's given so much back, not just to his foundation, but to the tour, as well, and The Irish Open.   
   
 Q.   With the amount of golf that you've played through injury problems and commitments otherwise, you must be happy, you've enjoyed this week, this is links turf and you've enjoyed this terrain?  
PAUL McGINLEY:   I've really enjoyed the challenge of the golf course.   It's a great test of golf.   In all ideal world I'd love to open up a few of the views of the greens, not so much the tee shots but certainly I think a couple of the greens are hidden unnecessarily so.   And I think if it had that, it would in my mind be the best links course in the British Isles.   I think it's got that potential.  
   
 Q.   The way you've played this week and the way you've enjoyed the week, put it into context?  
PAUL McGINLEY:   Context, I mean, it's a very good achievement obviously, and I'm still pretty competitive, which is good.   I've fought my way around the golf course.   I haven't really been on my game.   I've played pretty decently but not great, and I'm just thrilled to be here for the weekend and still competing.  
   
 Q.   The Irish Open in general, the tournament that it is now?   
PAUL McGINLEY:   It's going to go onwards and upwards from here hopefully, with Rory's elevated status now as world No. 1 and what he can do with that position of world No. 1, a lot of people rallied around and made this tournament what it is and what I think it will be going forward, as well, too, and the quality of field that he's going to attract, as well, too, is important.   
But also, let's give credit over the last five or six years, without a sponsor how we have kept this thing in the air and kept it going and kept it in the schedule and all credit to everybody who has rallied around it the last four or five years to make that happen.   
   
 Q.   Can you still keep asking guys to come and get responses?   
PAUL McGINLEY:   Well, Rory is not asking for favours, you have to understand that.   It's a two‑way race.   These guys will be asking Rory things back in return, and Rory knows that, and that's what he's doing.   And that's what Rory does for a tournament.   That's a huge thing that he's doing.   It's not just one‑way, oh, Rory, you're a nice guy, you're No. 1 player in the world, I'm going to fly all the way across to Ireland and play your tournament.   It's not that.   Rory will do something in return and give up the most valuable thing to Rory, which is his time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT