BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2009
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A 68 today, you must be pleased with your round?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah, pleased it was a long day obviously. The weather has been awful the last few days, so good to get away with a good start, something I haven't done much this year.  
  
  Q. How are you getting on the greens?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: Okay. 7 was a horrible hole for us. A lady broke her leg right in front of us as she crossed the bridge. It was a pretty dramatic hole, actually. Nice to hole a putt there but on my mind was the lady breaking her leg.   
  
  Q. We understand she's gone to the hospital, so we'll keep you updated. Tell us about your caddie?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: I was six years with Darren. I've only had three caddies in 17 years, six years with Darren; no falling out, no problems, he's got a good bag, as well. We left on very good terms and I just felt I needed something fresh, so Pete is the man.   
  
  Q. How are you gutting on with Pete?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah, we played really well in Wales and have a good start this week. Yeah, we are getting on well. We have known each other a long time. He's caddied for me once before about seven or eight years ago one tournament when my caddie couldn't go. He's fine.  
  
  Q. How much does a round like today lift your confidence?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: Getting away from that cut line on the first day is great and then you can really focus on the leaders. It was nice to get away with a good start, as I say, something I haven't done much this year, have good starts, tournaments I've played well I've sort of moved my way into it. It's nice to get a good start and see what happens here.   
  
  Q. What's the key to the round today?   
 PAUL McGINLEY: I played solid, really. Had a bad start, 3-putted the 10th hole. What was the key? No key. I hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of greens. If I wasn't on the green, I was on the fringe and was able to get it up-and-down. You know, I played well. I played solid. There's no big key.   
  
  Q. What's the story with the lady breaking her leg?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: She was one of the scorers and the bridge was five yards ahead of me and as I followed through my ball, I had not even hit the ground, I heard her slipping and then she screamed. Her leg or her ankle came out, the bone came out. It was horrible. It was right -- we were ten minutes before we got off the shot there.   
  
  Q. The 7th hole?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: It was on the 7th, yeah, so just write her a note now, the three of us sent her a note and hopefully she'll be all right. My worry was it was her back, she landed on the bridge that goes across and it was raised on each side so carts don't go into the water and she fell and landed on that ask it was my worry was it was her back that was cracked. But we saw it was her bone sticking out there.   
 I don't like to see you hovering.   
  
  Q. Sorry?   
 PAUL McGINLEY: Okay.   
  
  Q. Andrew Coltart was saying the difference between success and failure is such a thin line and today had a great back nine, his putting certainly clicked. Is that what you felt?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: Not really. I've played well. To me the better I play, the better I put. If you're putting with pressure on all the time, it's not great. I think I've played well today and I think I putt better when you're not having to putt for par so often. Lots of putts for birdies today and not too many long ones. So to me it's about playing well. If I play well, then I putt well, generally.   
  
  Q. How much longer is the course playing because of the dampness?   
 PAUL McGINLEY: It's long, a lot of 3- or 4-irons, par 4s, driver and a rescue to the pin. We played -- we probably played in total probably eight or nine holes in the rain today, so it did play damp and long yeah.   
 But look, that's the way it is. This course has been good to me in the past. I qualified for my Ryder Cups here, and I remember -- the first time I was pretty much in, I was 90 per cent cemented in, the second place I wasn't. I was 11th place starting the week; I finished fourth.   
  
  Q. Can the course take much more rain or not?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah, it can, actually. It's draining well. The greens are good. They are rolling well. Yeah, there's actually a bit of speed on them, too. That's why I 3-putted 10th. I raced it three-foot by. Thought I hit a decent putt.   
  
  Q. Where were you when play was suspended?   
 PAUL McGINLEY: 6th tee box and 7th when she broke her leg. Seemed to being a long day, ten-minute wait there, and what did we stop for half an hour, 35 minutes.  
  
  Q. What's ahead the next few weeks schedule-wise?  
 PAUL McGINLEY: I'm playing the next four.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT