THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 6, 2009
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A round with its fair share of up-and-downs, how do you feel about 71 overall?
 PAUL McGINLEY: I battled well. I competed well. Every time I went to 1-over, I managed to make a birdie. 
 I need more quality. I didn't play enough quality shots to get in tight to the pin. My dropped shots were 60, 70 feet away from the pin, and I think I had three 3-putts from that distance. But the point is, I should have been closer. 
 So I need a bit more quality tomorrow. 

 Q. Are you being a bit hard on yourself today, tremendously difficult today, 73.5 is the average score. 
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah, but I relish these conditions. I like the wind and I love the challenge, and I love the fact that it's not just drive-it-and-bomb-it. You've got to play shots in the wind; you've got to hit little cut shots; you've got to hit draw shots; you've got to knock it down. 
 You've got to have good course management, because some of the greens are firm; some are soft. Pin positions were very strong today. All of the things I look for in a golf course; it was right up my street. 
 As I say, if my quality was a bit better today, I reckon I would have had a really good score.

 Q. How important is the right attitude on days like today? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah, of course it is. It's miserable. It's amazing, we have had two, 2 1/2 weeks of absolutely perfect weather, and now it's just got so cold. There has not been an in-between. It's been from red hot to freezing cold, but look, that's what we have to face. 
 Tough golf course. You know, really tough golf course. A lot of questions asked with the shots out there. It will be a great course to watch The Ryder Cup on next year, because there will be hole changes so regularly on this golf course because you can make birdies but you can also make bogeys. There's a lot of tough shots. So it's a real challenge. 

 Q. I realise it was on the other golf course but you have won The Wales Open, do you get a nice feeling when you come back here?
 PAUL McGINLEY: Very much so, yes, Wales, the Welsh people have been good for me, and I've had a good bit of support the last few days and I have done ever since I won. 
 So, yeah, I like coming here. I enjoy coming here, and as I say, I really enjoyed today. It was a real good test, real good test mentally and physically today, and I think physically I was not as good as I know I can be. So a little bit more tomorrow and I'll be in business. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT