THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 14, 2009
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAUL McGINLEY: Links golf, links sand is the best sand we have but when it's the worst sand to hit out of, it gets so heavy. Bunker play is very difficult, particularly long bunker shots, when the clay is as heavy as it is or the sand is as heavy as it is. 
 I made three or four silly mistakes that, you know what, I shouldn't be doing at this level, and certainly I gave three or four shots to the field today that I shouldn't have, which is what I've been doing most of the year so far. 
 A lot of good golf in there, a lot of good golf to make that many birdies, a lot of good golf. So try and shoot a good score tomorrow. 

 Q. You'd like to be playing well when the Ryder Cup qualifying starts; just your thoughts on the Seve Trophy, and now there have to be two assistants --
 PAUL McGINLEY: How I perform -- I certainly want to be on the team. As I say, I don't know how good of a captain I'm going to be. I certainly have a lot of experience and I'm looking forward to relishing it, and I will relish; I have a lot of strong ideas on why teams have been successful that I've been involved, and I'll be putting them into play, hopefully, at the Seve Trophy. 

 Q. How did you get to hear of it? When did you get to hear of it first that it was a potential?
 PAUL McGINLEY: I didn't know anything about it until the other night Monty caught me and asked me to be captain. It was Monty's decision. As Ryder Cup Captain, he was able to decide who the captains would be, and I was obviously thrilled. I slept on it. I didn't say yes immediately and rang him the next morning and told him. 
 Yeah, I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q. Is he going to be there? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: At the moment he is The Ryder Cup captain, and it's a prelude to The Ryder Cup. So certainly I'll be talking to him, if there's any pairings The Ryder Cup captain thinks should go together, we'll have that discussion, no doubt about that. I'm there as much to help Monty in his role in The Ryder Cup captaincy as I am the Seve Trophy, and I will be talking to him during the week. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 PAUL McGINLEY: I have so much more golf to play and so much more to achieve, it's hard to talk about captaincy when I'm frustrated with my score today when I should have thought so much better. That's my concern. I have so much more to give as a player and today was a frustrating day when I didn't get the most out of really good golf. 
 I hit a lot of really good shots today, played some great golf, putted nicely, but you know, I threw away silly shots, just silly shots around the greens, my chipping and putting and bunker play was not up to the standard it needs to be for professional golf. 
 I haven't blown myself out of the tournament. Obviously the scoring is extremely good today. I want the rain to stop and the wind go a gale, that's ideal for me. The rain has softened the course and I've said it before, when the course is soft, professionals will shoot lights out but when it's hard and firm, it's tough again for us, and hence you have the scoring. 
 Firm and fast, the ball, we control it all day long, but when it rolls, it's out of our control. If you had the scoring yesterday in the Pro-Am and the conditions in the Pro-Am, probably 3- or 4-under par at the best would be the leading score, probably 3-under. Now we have soft conditions today even though it was raining all day and you have 8- or 9-under leading. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT