THE EUROPEAN OPEN
July 4, 2008
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had a chance yesterday of being in the lead, and how was that response from your point of view? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: Well, I don't think I had a chance of having the lead, but I had a chance of being where Graeme was tucked in behind the leader. The finish was very, very disappointing. It was a long night last night, losing those three shots on the last two holes and playing as well as I did on the first 17. 
 Yeah, it was good to bounce back and I'm pleased to shoot that score.

 Q. How hard is it when you know your golf is good and you've had some reversals which are hard to deal with. 
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah, I seem to be on the comeback trail all the time. I can't see to get ahead of the game. When things seem to be going right, I finish like I did yesterday or like around Wentworth. Anyway, we'll keep fighting and bouncing back and see where I go.

 Q. Not to dwell on Wentworth, you had a few weeks to reflect on that; have you gotten over it?
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah, I've played decently since then without results. And that's all that's been missing this year. Because I've really played quality golf in patches, but I haven't put it together for four days, and Wentworth was a good example of that. 
 But there's been a lot of tournaments where I've really struck the ball as well as I can play, and just haven't quite scored as well as I should have scored.

 Q. Do you know the difference between doing that and winning as you did, say, in the Volvo Masters less than three years ago; a similar exhibition of almost perfect golf by your own standards? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah, I've just got to keep patient really, that's it, because I'm hitting a lot of really good putts. I'm not really holing a lot. I've changed my technique quite a lot this year and I haven't quite got the results yet but I'm not far away at all. 
 I have to eliminate mistakes like I did yesterday. I dropped three shots in two holes yesterday, and you know, you can't afford to do that nowadays. These tournaments are very much a sprint as you can see with the scoring. Again, a tough golf course and trouble all over yet 12-under par is leading. You can't afford a round of mistakes like I made yesterday if you're going to contend.

 Q. Your game and score are in good shape; what are your aspirations for the weekend? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: Keep going. I had a great finish last week, I finished 7th, and I'll be hoping to improve on that this week and just keep playing the way I've been playing and be a little bit more patient and wait for things to happen for me. Because I'm doing -- I feel I'm doing all the right things and only thing that's missing so far has been the results. But that will come if I keep playing and doing what I'm doing. 

 Q. Ryder Cup one of your big goals?
 PAUL McGINLEY: Not really. Top-50 in the world now is more important than Ryder Cup to be honest. I'm not in the British Open or US PGA, wasn't in the U.S. Open and wasn't in the Masters and Ryder Cup doesn't get you in those. That's my main goal this year. If Ryder Cup comes along, it will be a consequence of getting back in the Top-50 and that's what I'm focused on, Top-50.

 Q. Still, you did foresake the Vice Captaincy of the team to concentrate on making it. 
 PAUL McGINLEY: Absolutely.

 Q. Do you have any regrets on that score?
 PAUL McGINLEY: Absolutely not, no. As you can, see my game started to turn around in the started nine months from what I played before that. 
 Yeah, as I say, I'm not far away. The only thing that's missing for me this year is a big result or a big check or a big number of points. You give me a check like Monty had last week, and all of the sudden I'm on the team. I've been chipping away, 40,000, 50,000, 60,000, 70,000, 40,000 those kind of checks, but in order to make the team, like I said so many times, you need two or three big checks. 
 It's not really about winning, but coming -- even what Monty did was massive; he's come from nowhere into probably strong contention for the team. That's something I haven't done over the whole campaign is had a big check. I've had only one six-figure check and that was just about a six-figure check. If you're going to make the team, you need a few big checks, and I haven't done that so far, and time is running out. 

 Q. It's a tough team to get on, isn't it? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: It always is. 

 Q. Getting tougher all the time?
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah and you can see the money is going up and up to make it every year. It's tough. But that's the way it is. That's the standard of the Tour.

 Q. What do you make of the captain's picks as it stands? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: Wide open. It's wide open at the moment isn't it. I don't know. It will all depend on form. Form is a huge factor, and I'm sure he's not decided on his picks at any stage now. You know, somebody who might be a pick now might not be a pick in two month's time because form is the biggest factor in a successful Ryder Cup Team more than anything else. And I think you know, he probably will use that as a strong basis for making his picks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT