BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2008
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. General reflection on both the whole week? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah, yeah, over the four days, I felt the least control of my golf game today than I did the other three days. It's just surprising shooting 79 yesterday. 
 I didn't really feel comfortable with my golf swing today. I didn't really play very well to be honest. I was struggling to get it around. So it was disappointing, even though I birdied, I hit it in the trees on the 4th, and I was battling all day.

 Q. You said you were shattered after yesterday's 79. How did you reflect last night and get yourself up for the final round?
 PAUL McGINLEY: I don't know. I still haven't reflected properly. I'll probably know when I'm finished. It's like I'm hit with a stone. I didn't understand where it came from or how. I looked back on my preparation, it was spot on, I hit the ball great on the range, slept great the night before, everything was there for a good day and it went the other way. I haven't come up with any conclusions yet. 

 Q. How will you cope with this week? 
 PAUL McGINLEY: I'll be all right. I'll regroup and go at it again. Leading the tournament by four shots and shooting 79 is extremely disappointing, and you know, okay, I still had a chance today. But I let everybody else catch up. And today was a shootout; reminded me of the last day of The Open last year. I knew I had to shoot under par to keep my position today and didn't quite manage that with 72. 

 Q. Can you bottle what you did the first two days and find it again?
 PAUL McGINLEY: Yeah, there's a lot of good golf there. I do feel like I'm making good progress. For some reason, it didn't want to happen on the weekend and, I don't know, I felt pretty comfortable yesterday. I really felt comfortable and felt like I was doing the same thing over the putts as the first two days but nothing wanted to go in. 
 I had opportunities for birdies today and the ball was finding a way of missing whereas the first two days it was finding a way of going in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT