BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2008
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tell us about a good day. 
 PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, it was a good day.  Obviously started out very windy the first few holes.  I got the wind wrong on the second hole which was my only bogey. 
 Other than that, it was a lot of good golf.  Birdied three of the par 5s which is always good, and yeah, a good round of golf. 

 Q.  Good finish, as well? 
 PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, I nearly birdied 18.  Hit a great putt, a foot from the hole and didn't go in. 
 I'm pleased.  It's a good start which I haven't been doing most of the year.  I've been giving way to slow starts, and first time this year I've had a good start. 
 The last few events I've played pretty similar to be honest, but I've putted poorly and putted much better today.  That's always the different, particularly last week, 4-under par cut, you have to putt well and I didn't do that.  You know, I've played solidly all year.  I'm top ten in greens in regulations, yet my Order of Merit position is down at 60th.  So there's a big onus on putting, as everybody knows, and I need to putt better for rest of the season. 

 Q.  We've touched on this before, but an underlying frustration? 
 PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, it is, of course when you're not playing well and feel like you're not getting results, it gets frustrating.  No one to blame but myself.  But I hit a lot of good putts today and they went in. 

 Q.  What are your impressions of this place? 
 PAUL McGINLEY:  Good.  Obviously the course needs a bit of rough to be honest, and we would ideally be here a month or six months later would be ideal.  We are just coming out of winter here, and you can see that it's a bit like home; it's a bit grey and a bit dull and there are no leaves in the trees. 
 Excellent, excellent venue.  I think it's got huge potential and I think the tournament will grow and grow.  I think it needs a better date.  As I said, I think it needs to be a month or six weeks later and it will grow into a very fine event in the Far East. 

 Q.  And the wind, that's the main defence for the course? 
 PAUL McGINLEY:  It is this week, yeah.  As I say if we're here six weeks later, you would have the rough, as well, and you wouldn't need wind, but this week it will need wind to defend the course. 

 Q.  Worse this morning? 
 PAUL McGINLEY:  I don't know, did it not start out calm this morning?  Was it always windy?  Clean it up for tomorrow, we'll see. 

 Q.  Surprise, today? 
 PAUL McGINLEY:  Not really.  As I said I've been playing well.  My greens in regulation are right up there.  Even last week I missed the last two cuts and still hitting 14, 15 greens a round and the difference is I birdied the par 5s today, which is unusual for a course to have four par 5s and get home, and I did today, and that's nice to be able to do that.  If I'm reaching home on four of the par 5s, that doesn't always happen for me. 
 I had 30 putts.  But I played well, though.  I felt like I putted well, even though I didn't have a low number, I felt like I putted well. 

 Q.  Are you actively seeking a remedy to the putting, or is it patience and working harder? 
 PAUL McGINLEY:  I think I got away from the grainy greens.  We're back to bentgreens and I'm a bit more comfortable on those.  I struggled on the greens the last few weeks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT