PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2007
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAUL McGINLEY:  It wasn't an easy putt up and over the hill at the last but to hole it was nice. I played really good today. I had a lot of chances and basically hit and fairways and greens and that was the key.   
 After a 74 yesterday I was disappointed. I figured I could shoot a decent score today and confidence grew as I holed a few putts.   
 The course is tougher now than it was at the start of the week because the breeze is virtually gone. We had a strong breeze the first few days to keep us cool. But we are used to these conditions on The European Tour, playing in Asia, Australia and South Africa with conditions similar to this.   
 So far so good. Hopefully the leaders won't get too far away and I can stay in touching distance and just try to play well over the weekend and what happens happens. My main intention was to make the cut. I shot 74 and was on the cut line but I made one from six feet on the third and I was off and running from there.   
 I enjoyed Carnoustie. I've had two good rounds today and nice to see what happens over the weekend. Obviously pleased with my position. I put myself under pressure today, because of the cut line and my priority was to get away from that.   
 Carnoustie, that was a lot of fun because it's been a long time since I was in contention and I was disappointed to finish 19th because I felt I played much better than that for the four rounds. But it was a big learning curve. I'd never been in the last few groups before and I learned a lot. I've started to get confidence in my swing and my shots are under control. When you do that confidence grows. I've worked extremely hard on my game and it's very pleasing to come out the other side with rounds like that.   
 That 18th is a tough hole and it's hard to see the pin from way down below the green. It's difficult to identify the target.  Certainly I learned from Carnoustie. It was a lot different from what I thought it would be, not in terms of the playing but all the extraneous activity going on. If you don't enjoy it you are in the wrong business. Of course it's a big buzz to be in contention for a Major.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT