OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 7, 2013
Charley Hull
Dave Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on the day? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it was good.   I didn't feel very well today.   I felt quite sick yesterday and then I've had a bit of cramps today and I got through it.   Yeah, I'm pretty happy with my week.   Hopefully it's a Top‑10 so it's a good way to close out the year.

Q.   You were playing it cool all week about the Rookie of the Year award.   Can you sum up what it means to win? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it's great.   It's an honour to win it, especially my first year.   I think I've had tough competition in Holly, she's a great player and you can see in the future, me and Holly battling it out, which I think is good.   Means a lot and it's been good fun.

Q.   Where does it rank in terms of your year?   Obviously you had a stand‑out showing at the Solheim and you've come close in a fair few tournaments so far, so where does it rank in the year overall. 
CHARLEY HULL:   Definitely high up there.   Solheim was great and all my second place finishes, so it was good to top it off with that.

Q.   What are your plans for the new season?   Where are you starting? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I'm not sure where I'm starting yet, somewhere some Australia.   Probably just go over for one or two.   But yeah, just there, and then I'm in the Kraft Nabisco this year.   I was in there two years ago as an amateur and I'm looking forward to playing in that.

Q.   Your objective for this tournament, like the tournament victory, how close do you feel you are? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I think I've just got to stop making some silly mistakes on the greens, because I can miss a 2‑footer and I can hole a 30‑footer.   So I just need to tidy up on that. 
Yeah, I think every tournament I've played in this year I felt like I could have easily won it.   Just tidy up my mistakes, but I can say that's a rookie error, which I can't say that next year, but I can still blame it on my age.

Q.   What are you going to work on specifically in the off‑season?
CHARLEY HULL:   Everything, yeah, I can't wait.   I'll be practicing again probably on Monday.   I don't like to have a day off.   Looking forward to it.   I enjoy it, as well, because me and my friends have chipping competitions and putting comps and make a bit of money.

Q.   What is your biggest learning from the year? 
CHARLEY HULL:   My pace, like how I don't rush, have to slow down.   That's what Max taught me actually.   He's made that a big key and that's helped me a lot. 

Q.   And on the social side, what are you looking forward to? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Got my friend's birthday next week and just relaxing, going out for Christmas, Boxing Day, stuff like that. 

Q.   How do you celebrate this? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Probably just go with my friends and drink some water.   (Laughter).

Q.   Sparkling or still?
CHARLEY HULL:   I'll go for the still. 

Q.   If you can just explain the start of Charley's career?
DAVE HULL:   Yeah, when she turned pro, we thought, she's so young, and with the money and having to go to a lot of these receptions and have to do so many things outside of golf, and Charley's always just wanted to play golf.
We said, you know, if a sponsorship comes along, we'll wait till the end of the year, see how she gets on, let her free to play golf, which she's doing, and after the season finished, look at getting her some sponsorship, the right ones.

Q.   And her manager?
DAVE HULL:   Joe is the main one but we're in with IMG, too, but Joe is still in fully, sorts out taxes and things like, but with Vicky Cuming. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT