U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2014
Jesse Heinly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PETE KOWALSKI: Been quite a long day for you.JESSE HEINLY: Been a very long day, yes.PETE KOWALSKI: Got into the match play through a playoff and ended up playing with a co-medalist, and now you're sitting here talking to us as a guy who is going to play in the second round.  How do you feel about that?JESSE HEINLY: Pretty good.  I mean, this is exciting.  My goal is just to make the match play here.  I thought maybe if I got to match play -- I love playing match play just because it wipes the score, just one-on-one.  Thought maybe I had a pretty good chance.  But just barely squeaking in the match play was exciting enough for me, and this was great winning this, so, yeah.PETE KOWALSKI: And is your experience enough in match play to say, even though I'm playing a guy who is one of the top scorers in the stroke play, now it's a chance for me against him?JESSE HEINLY: Yeah, I mean, he's one of the top scorers, but it's match play and anything can happen.  Anyone who makes match play I feel like is going to be a good player.  It's not like -- some guys are going to be a little better than others, but whatever you scored a couple days ago doesn't mean anything today.  It's just a new day so anything can happen.PETE KOWALSKI: In this long day of play for you, what was the best shot you hit?  Was it in the playoff?  Was it in your match?JESSE HEINLY: I just played real solid in the playoff.  Made a good 10-footer for birdie.  I would say my shot on 14 today, the ball was -- I was 2-up and the ball was below my feet kind of in the rough, a little over 150 and I hit a really good shot to six or seven feet and I made birdie and that helped me go 3-up.  That was a good turning point, because he was sitting in a lot better lie than I was.  I was just hoping to put it on the green.  Just hit a really good shot.Q. How important was your start?  Obviously you won two out of the first three holes.  Did that add some confidence?JESSE HEINLY: Yeah, it did a little bit.  I lost the second hole, so I was just 1-up after three, so my goal was just hanging with them toe-to-toe.  If I could bring it to 18 holes even, just all-square, that would be a pretty good accomplishment for me. So getting a 1-up lead like that a little early, it was a good confidence builder.Q. How do you feel about just being in the playoff?  Did you just squeak in?  Did you make a late bogey or birdie?JESSE HEINLY: Well, the playoff, actually I bogeyed three in a row.  I bogeyed 15, 16 and 17, and I was thinking, shoot, I have to birdie 18 or I might not actually get in, but I did.  Squeaked in with you probably shouldn't have been in that position in the first place.  I birdied 18 to squeak on.  It was just exciting to be in the playoff.  The playoff was more nerve-wracking than this match today was.  You've got one hole to make it, two holes, really.Q. How close did you hit on the first playoff hole?JESSE HEINLY: First playoff hole for my putt, I had like ten feet, maybe 12 feet.  It was a pretty good shot.Q. Just looking at your bio.  Did you play college golf?JESSE HEINLY: I did.  I played for Concordia University for two years, transferred to Xavier to play for a semester and just didn't fit in very well and didn't like it, so I transferred back to Concordia and finished up there.Q. What are you doing these days?JESSE HEINLY: Just graduated in the spring and now -- played a bunch of tournaments this summer.  Going to kind of figure it out.  Might move.  Just kind of working a little bit here and there.  Actually work a decent amount now that I'm back home in Bend.  I lived in Portland for a while and played.  I was kind of working and playing and seeing what's coming up next.  Still trying to figure life out.Q. How much does the U.S. Amateur mean in the last 32, helping you figure it out -JESSE HEINLY: A little better.  I think if I won a few more matches, it would help a lot.  But yeah, this definitely helps my confidence for sure, maybe trying to keep playing a little bit more in the next few years.PETE KOWALSKI: Jesse, thanks.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT