NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: FINAL FOUR
April 5, 2019
Barry Bedlan
Zion Williamson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: It's now my pleasure to introduce Barry Bedlan of the Associated Press, the Dallas bureau.  He's going to present Zion Williamson with the Associated Press National Player of the Year Award.  Barry?
BARRY BEDLAN: I'm the sports products director for the Associated Press, and it's my pleasure to announce this year's winner.  I know this is going to be a big surprise, and yet another award for Zion here.
We've been giving out the award for 58 years, and past recipients include Michael Jordan, Larry Bird, Bill Walton, Shaquille O'Neal, and even an eventual Timberwolf, Christian Laettner.
This year's recipient becomes only the third freshman, the other two being Kevin Durant and Anthony Davis, and he becomes the seventh Blue Devil to receive this honor, more than any other college basketball program.  The last Blue Devil to get it was JJ Redick in 2006.
This player's style on the court is unique for his stature.  He stands 6'7", yet can handle the ball as well as any guard.  He's been described as scrappy, nimble, and explosive.  He can throw down a violent dunk from as far away as the free-throw line, appearing to float, even though no one who weighs 285 pounds can float.
The videos of his dunks, there are some reportedly from middle school out there.  I'll let him confirm whether that's true, but the videos of his dunks dating back that far have gone viral and attracted millions of views.  And CBS for the first time this tournament dedicated a cameraman just on Zion during the games he played on.
And also unique is his name.  When he was born, his grandmother told his mother to name him something extra special.  She did.  She named him after Mt. Zion in the bible, which seems fitting considering his intimidating presence on the court as well as sitting here next to him.
It is my pleasure to introduce the AP Men's College Basketball Player of the Year, Zion Williamson.
(Applause.)
THE MODERATOR: Zion, do you want to offer a couple comments?
ZION WILLIAMSON: Yes, sir.  Yes, sir.  Once again, I thank God because without Him I wouldn't be here.  I would like to thank the Associated Press for voting me Player of the Year because, like I said, there are a lot of other players that can be in this position.
I'd like to thank my coaches, teammates, because I think this is a team award, not just for myself, but for me and my teammates.  This is a team award.
And I'd like to thank my family the most because without my mom, I wouldn't be here.  Like nobody will ever know how much she's done for me and what she's been through just for me to be sitting in this chair right now.  My mom is the biggest inspiration in my life.  I'd just like to say that I love her.
And once again, I'd like to thank the Associated Press for nominating me the Player of the Year.
THE MODERATOR: We probably took care of most of the questions the prior press conference, but if anyone walked in late, questions for Zion or Barry?  There's one.  Might as well take one, right, Zion?
ZION WILLIAMSON: Might as well.
Q. Zion, you could have played anywhere in the country out of high school.  You chose Duke.  What impact has Coach K not only had on your life but on your basketball career as well?
ZION WILLIAMSON: The impact he's had on my life is like he helped a lot with how to carry myself like with the media and being under a microscope all the time, and just the game of basketball.  He's taught me so much in one year.  I didn't even -- I thought I knew a lot about basketball, but I didn't know nothing because everything he taught me was something new every day.
And I'd just like to thank Coach K for even giving me the opportunity to come to Duke because they already had three great players committed there, and they could have stopped there, but he kept recruiting me, and I'm just grateful for that because I wouldn't have had the year I had if I'd have went anywhere else.
Q. Zion, sorry if you've been asked, but do you have a rooting interest this weekend based on a player you've played against in the past or teams you've played against in the past?  Is there a team you're pulling for this weekend?
ZION WILLIAMSON: No, I'm not pulling for anybody.  I just wish the best of luck to those four teams.  I want them to go out there and compete.  I mean, only one team can stand on top.
Q. Hi, Zion.  I'm in college as well, so I was just wondering, what's the thing outside of basketball that you're going to miss the most?
ZION WILLIAMSON: Just walking around Duke, like as a regular student.  I just think that's something I'm never going to forget, like walking to class, just walking around the campus, because the college experience is something like I never want to miss out on.  I'm glad I came to Duke because the campus is beautiful.  So when I'm walking to class, it's something to take in every day.
THE MODERATOR: We'll do one final question only because Zion is super gracious because he's walking out with two of these major awards this evening.
Q. You talk about these awards being team awards, not necessarily player awards.  Can you talk about the relationship you've had with your teammates this year, maybe specifically your roommate, RJ Barrett?
ZION WILLIAMSON: The bond I have with my teammates have been incredible.  We got here like July -- we got in Duke July 1, went to Canada, and I mean, the relationships we built weren't just on -- like on court.  We were always together off the court.
For RJ, RJ is a brother to me.  We relate with so much.  We're always together, like we always know what the other one's thinking.  I think the chemistry was there on and off the court.  I mean, I think we had a great season and looking forward to what we're both going to do in the future.
THE MODERATOR: We want to thank and congratulate Zion Williamson, the Associated Press and the USBWA National Player of the Year.  And thanks to Barry for presenting the award on behalf of the Associated Press.
(Applause.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT