NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: FINAL FOUR
March 30, 2017
Frank Mason III
Barry Bedlan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
AP Player of the Year   
THE MODERATOR: Please welcome the 2016/2017 Associated Press National Player of the Year from Kansas, Frank Mason III.  And representing the Associated Press, Barry Bedlan.   
BARRY BEDLAN: This year's Player of the Year was the only unanimous selection to the AP All-America First Team this season.  He also is the Big 12 Player of the Year after becoming the conferences first player to average more than 20 points and five assists per game.  On top of that he averaged four rebounds per game and shot nearly 49 percent from the 3-point range.   
However, perhaps most impressive was his leadership on the court, earning nicknames like "Fearless Frank," "Poker Face," and probably there's other nicknames that your teammates call you as well, helping the Jayhawks win their 13th straight outright Big 12 title.   
On a side note, I'm also pretty confident he's the first player to receive this honor who has served as the inspiration for not one but two rap songs.  And I thought about trying to perform one of them for you all today, but my sons begged me not to.  They reminded me this should be a positive experience for Frank and everyone in attendance.   
So the one point I will notice that is hard for me to believe that in the 57-year history of this award he becomes the first Jayhawk to be named the AP Player of the Year.   
(Applause)   
It is my pleasure to present the 2016-2017 AP Player of the Year award.   
FRANK MASON III: First off, I want to thank God for such an honor to be here.  And it's a privilege.  Just have to thank my parents for putting me in this position and helping me become the man I am, and my wonderful coaches and the Kansas Jayhawk fans and everyone that just believed in me.  And I want to thank everyone that voted for me and I really appreciate it.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Just wanted to know, what's been the driving force behind your outstanding play this season?  
FRANK MASON III: I think my family and mainly my son.  I just want those people to have the best lives possible.  And I just want to work really hard and do everything I can to put them in position to be successful.   
 Q.  Is there ever a point during the season where you started thinking about winning this award, or is it something that once the season was over it just came around?  
FRANK MASON III: It's nothing that I thought about throughout the season.  My main focus was just winning.  And I just wanted to take whatever came with winning.  And it's just how it happened.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be the first Jayhawk to win this award?  
FRANK MASON III: It's great.  Like I said, it's such an honor to be the first Jayhawk ever to win this award.  So many great players that came through Kansas, and just the tradition itself.  I think it's something that I'll always remember and it's really special.   
 Q.  Have you at any time ever think back to where your career began and how you got to Kansas and all the things that changed in that time?  
FRANK MASON III: Yeah, it's something I think about a lot.  Just from playing outside in a bad neighborhood where I grew up, to started playing AAU and having guys that really cared about me and put me in a position to be successful.  And I just thank God for Coach Townsend who started me out in Vegas and he recognized my talents.  And I'm just thankful for this opportunity.   
 Q.  The season ended on a disappointing note for your team.  I'm wondering if you've been able to process that and put it behind you.  
FRANK MASON III: I haven't yet.  I still been thinking about it.  It's been on my mind a lot.  And I just have to move on to what's next.  And I just look at the bigger picture and focus on everything that I can control.   
 Q.  I take it these two are your parents right here in the front?  
FRANK MASON III: Yep.   
 Q.  How does it feel to see their faces and their reactions?  Because your dad is immensely proud.  And just hearing him yell for you, what is it that like being up there?  
FRANK MASON III: It's great to see them smiling and see all the hard work they've done over the years pay off for me.  And I'm just really happy for them, and especially just to have them here and watch this award.   
 Q.  What are your hopes for the future, and what have you been told about your prospects?  
FRANK MASON III: My hopes is I get drafted.  I work really hard towards that so I can put myself in position to do that.  And haven't been told much yet.  I'm still getting used to this process, working out and things like that.  I think over the next few weeks I'll learn a lot more.   
 Q.  How difficult was it coming to Phoenix without your teammates?  
FRANK MASON III: It was very difficult.  You know, I didn't plan on doing this.  My goals and our goals as a team was to be here as a family.  And it's just something different for me, because I expected me to be here with my teammates and coaches.   
THE MODERATOR: We'd like to congratulate Frank Mason III as Player of the Year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT