CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2014
Martin Klizan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KLIZAN/R. Nadal
      6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑3

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You were very aggressive from the get‑go on this match.   Was that intentional to try to keep Rafa on the defense the entire time?
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   I mean, I was whole match down.   I mean, I was down set and break in the second.   So I was just, you know, still fighting.   I was hoping that I can win the match. 
    I mean, only thing I could do was hope.   I was just very ready to play whole match.   I'm very happy that I could win today. 

Q.   You played against Rafa in previous matches.   Your matches are always so close.   Is this the most big achievement for your career and how did you accomplish it?
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   Yes, before we played two times, one time in Roland Garros and one time in Wimbledon.   Both matches we played in four sets.   I lost.   This one was also, you know, very close match.   The previous ones was also very close. 
    You know, I don't know, Rafa is a big star, he's a big player.   He was still up.   He was set up and break.   You know, I had nothing to do, but I was just fighting. 
    I'm just so proud of myself that I could win today.   I'm looking forward to tomorrow to play semifinal.   It's my first semifinal in ATP 500 tournament. 
    I'm just enjoying every match here.   I'm just very happy. 

Q.   I understand in the first round of qualifying, you were very close to losing, down 1‑5 in the second.   Talk about that. 
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   First round quallies, I was down 4‑6, 1‑5.   That guy had three match points.   I mean, you know, the week before I retired in Shenzhen because of the injury.   It was very frustrating to me.   You never know if you wake up next day with the pain or without pain.   So it was very frustrating and tough for me to find the motivation and the concentration. 
    I mean, from the first match I was improving my game, my serve also.   That's all I can say about it. 

Q.   How will you go about preparing for your match with Berdych tomorrow?
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   Again, Berdy is world‑class player.   We played in US Open this year a very tough match, five sets.   I lost 6‑3 in the fifth.   So it was very close match.   I had a lot of chances in the fifth, but I lost it.   It was very tough one. 
    Tomorrow's going to be, again, very tough, especially when we play just three sets.   It's going to be very tough. 
    I think he's a little bit happy now that he will not play with Rafa.   But I will just try to do my best.   I'm looking forward to play semis here. 

Q.   You talked about the belief, still being able to come back even though you were down in the second and third set.   Tactically, what do you think you were able to do today that bothered Rafa?
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   I think the point was to be aggressive.   I was trying to be aggressive all the time.   But I had couple times that I didn't feel the ball very much.   I was just too tight in couple of moments. 
    But then I was trying to be aggressive, to lead the point every time. 

Q.   Was there any sense this was just Rafa's third match since Wimbledon?   Did you think he might be vulnerable, best‑of‑three instead of best‑of‑five?   Did you go in with a little bit more belief than you had in previous matches with him?
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   I didn't think about that, that we play best‑of‑three, best‑of‑five.   Doesn't matter.   But the thing was that I thought little bit that he didn't play three months, he was injured.   For every player, it's very tough to come back after injury.   Doesn't matter if you have injury for two weeks or half a year, it's always tough. 
    I think I just use the chance and I won. 

Q.   In today's match in the first set you had a breakpoint first, and then Nadal broke again.   In the tiebreak, you lost.   In the following two sets you were able to win the match.   Are you capable of doing the reverse win points?
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   It's a tough question. 
    As I said, Rafa was the better player on the court.   He was a set up, 4‑2, with break.   I was just fighting.   I just didn't want to lose the match and give to Rafa for free.   So I was just fighting. 
    I think it helped me that I was very concentrate on that match.   I won it because I play full with my heart. 

Q.   In this match, beating the No.1 player in the world, what does it mean to you?   Does it mean in your future career you'll be more confident when you play top‑10 players like Djokovic, that you will not be fearful, and you'll be more brave when you face these players?
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   As you could see in our previous matches with Rafa, they all are very close matches.   You know, I just thought that I could play with Rafa, with anyone else.   Doesn't matter who is on the opposite side. 
    I think my tennis is now great.   I think I can beat anyone on tour.   For me this victory, that was the best night in my life.   I'm just very happy that I beat Rafa.   He's a legend.   I'm just very happy that I beat a legend. 

Q.   I noticed after your victory, in addition to writing your name, you wrote something.   Does it mean anything?
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   Yes, I wrote I love my parents.   So mom, dad, hi (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT