DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP PLAY-OFF: SLOVAKIA v USA
September 12, 2014
Martin Klizan
Miroslav Mecir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/M. Klizan
  7‑6, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Miloslav, obviously both matches had tough first sets, then it seemed that both Isner and Sam pulled away after that.   Can you assess what you thought of both matches?  
CAPTAIN MECIR:   I thought we had very good chances in both matches.   As you said, the first set, both guys were up a little bit, and Norbert in the tiebreaker in the first match.   
I think he did three mistakes that helped Isner a lot.   After he won the first set, I think he relaxed more and he got the confidence and he started to serve much better.   
You could see in his game he was more sure with his strokes, more accurate, I would say more dangerous.   It was difficult to stop.   
I think was about the same with Martin's match.   I had the feeling in the beginning that Martin was the one that would make the rhythm of the match, make the tempo.   It's pity he didn't finish the set.   He was serving for the set.   It was quite an easy game to lose.   
   
 Q.   Martin, what happened when you were serving for it at 5‑4?   Seemed like a tentative game for you, then the double‑fault.   Were you nervous trying to serve it out?   
MARTIN KLIZAN:   I wasn't nervous.   I was just pissed off of the line umpire because was a huge mistake from him the first point.   Could be different story then, the game.   But anyway, Sam was the better player on the court and I think he was better, so he won.   
First set was very close.   As you said, I was serving for the set.   But after that he got more confidence and then he was just better, the better guy.   
   
 Q.   Miloslav, was it hard to get him to forget about the 5‑4 when he was serving for it?  
CAPTAIN MECIR:   I think the advantage of the home crowd, home field, it makes big difference.   People are pushing the guys here.   American players, they just wanted to show the home crowd that they fight for the country.   They had the public behind.   They were pushed a little bit more.   
As I said, they always are very dangerous when they play home.   
   
 Q.   How do you go back tonight and motivate the team down 2‑0?   Not an easy task, I'm sure.   
CAPTAIN MECIR:   Well, it's really tough.   I was hoping at least to get one point today.   With the better luck, we could maybe hope for more.   
But this is the reality.   It's even tougher than before starting this match.   But, as I said, I always thought that your players are favorite for this tie.   So far it's going that way.   
   
 Q.   Martin, you spent a little time in the third set stretching out quite a bit.   Seemed like you were shaking out your legs.   First set you were all over the court.   How tough is it to change with the Open, then Davis Cup, playing best‑of‑five?   Do you change training to look at that?   
MARTIN KLIZAN:   We play US Open best‑of‑five.   I think I was very good prepared.   I mean, I was quite fit.   I felt very fit and comfortable on the court.   I didn't have like big problems with my legs.   I just have a little injury of my shoulder.   I mean, every time you feel something.   We are sportsmens.   You cannot be healthy for 100%.   
I don't know what else to say.   It was a good match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT