DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP PLAY-OFF: SLOVAKIA v USA
September 11, 2014
Norbert Gombos
Martin Klizan
Lukas Lacko
Miroslav Mecir
Michal Mertinak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Team Slovakia.   
   
 Q.   Miroslav, can you talk a little bit about this weekend's tie and how the draw has played out?  
CAPTAIN MECIR:   I think so far we had a good week.   The most important things are ahead of us.   Tomorrow is the match.   I think the guys are prepared very well.  
We have seen who's playing first, so I'm looking forward to the matches.   I think all of the matches will be very tough, but we can surprise and we have nothing to lose.   
   
 Q.   Norbert, you will start off the tie against John Isner.   Probably know a little bit more about him than he knows about you.   What kind of advantage will that be for you?  
NORBERT GOMBOS:   I saw him many times on TV, so I know what I am expecting during the match.   I will try my best during the match, and I hope I will help to my team to won the point.  
We will see during the match how it will be, but I will try my best for sure.   
   
 Q.   Martin, you'll follow playing Sam Querrey.   Do you have much experience with him?   I don't think you've played.   Talk about that match.   
MARTIN KLIZAN:   I never play with Sam.   It's going to be our first meeting, and I'm looking forward to play against this guy.   He's playing very similar than John but he's not that tall, so the main thing is to make two points on Friday and then it's going to be all good.   It's going to be all good.   
   
 Q.   Lukas and Michal, you play Bob and Mike Bryan, who just won their 100th career title.   Talk about the challenge, if you both can.   Michal first.   Talk about playing the Bryans, the challenge of that.   
MICHAL MERTINAK:   Yeah, as you know, I played against them few times.   I won one set so far, so I don't know what‑‑ I know what to expect, but you have to play your best and just hope to win.   
LUKAS LACKO:   Yeah, I mean, we really don't know who's going to play on Saturday because can change the roster, the team for the Saturday.   But if it stays like this, then, yeah, I mean, it will be good experience to play against best doubles specialists in the world.  
I'm looking forward for fun on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   Miroslav, a big opportunity here to make it into the World Group 1, to play for the Davis Cup next year.   What would it mean for your team to accomplish that?  
CAPTAIN MECIR:   It's always much better to play the World Group than the second division.   You're more closer to the Cup.   Of course it shows the level of the players that you have in the country.   If you are in the World Group, it means that you have really good players.   
So it's also for our people back home, they crossing fingers for us.   They would be happy if we get there.  
   
 Q.   If you could, talk just a bit about your memories from when you played the Davis Cup as opposed to as the captain.   
CAPTAIN MECIR:   Well, it's very much different.   You have to concentrate when you play, best preparation possible, and on the performance during the match.   You don't see that much of the organizing stuff behind.  
To be able to communicate with the guys and to make them feel good and hungry for the match as I would say.   So it's very different.   
But I like the atmosphere.   This is the same if you are the player or the captain.   We all fight for the same thing.   I hope it's going to be everything fine.   
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT