ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2014
Martin Klizan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KLIZAN/K. Nishikori
      7‑6, 6‑1, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   Two questions:   Did you know about Kei has been injured and what kind of injury it was before the match?   Second question is maybe the first set, you know, in the tiebreak maybe was the key of this match.   After that first set, did you feel you got more confident and you started playing well? 
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   I saw he withdraw from Rome and he retired the match against Nadal, but I didn't know exactly which problem we had, that he had, so I was just concentrating on my game.
    I just saw a little bit sometimes he was touching the back when he was serving.   I think in the rallies he played very solid tennis during the all sets. 
    And the second question, yeah, the key was the first set.   We were breaking each other four times in the first set, so I was down 3‑5, he was serving, so it was very, very tough comeback. 
    The first set I won, and then I think I was the better player on the court. 

Q.   I think you and Kei are the same age.   How do you see the progress of Kei this year? 
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   He's a top star player, top‑10 player, and he has for sure great future.   He's already a top player, so he's making history.
    I just am very proud of him. 

Q.   Question related to what he asked.   So you are same generation as Kei, and there is Raonic and Dimitrov coming up and making progress, which is called like a younger, up‑and‑coming generation.   Do you feel like the success of Kei or Dimitrov or Raonic, the success of them encourages you?   Do you feel like you can do the same thing they can do? 
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   This question is very tough.   I mean, I like how they play, all three you were talking about, Dimitrov, Raonic, and Nishikori.   They are all young and making good progress in the ATP ranking in all the tournaments, so I would like to also play that good as they are playing. 
    I think my game is also good and I can go high on the ranking.   I think I can be also a top player in the future. 

Q.   Martin, during the match, did you feel something about he has some problem or some problem with movement, or you were just focused?
    MARTIN KLIZAN:   I was very focused, I have to say.   I think he was also‑‑ he also said, Come on couple of times.   He was fighting all the match.   During the rallies he was playing unbelievable good.
    So, I mean, the thing is that he retired from Madrid and Rome also, but it was two weeks ago.   You're asking me if he has a problem.   I don't know.   Ask him.   But on the court he seems that he was playing good; he was okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT