U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2012
Martin Klizan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. KLIZAN/J. Tsonga
  6‑4, 1‑6, 6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   If you could, describe the match.   
MARTIN KLIZAN:   I was coming to the match to play a very solid game.   I wanted to play really good tennis to play with the top star player.   
I played very, very well today.   I mean, I was concentrating each point and I won; I'm very happy that I did.  
   
 Q.   And you did it against a No. 5 player.   I think it's your first defeat of a top‑10 player.   Advances you to the third round of a Grand Slam for the first time.   Is it fair to say this might be the best victory of your career?  
MARTIN KLIZAN:   Yeah.   He's like No. 6 in the world and I beat him.   I feel great.   I don't know what to say.   I'm very happy, and that's it.   
Third round, I think it's my best result in my career, and I'm looking forward to play Saturday third round.   There is a chance to win again.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel you feel better than ever?   
MARTIN KLIZAN:   I play good.   I feel comfortable on the court and I tried to do my best.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised in a way maybe sometimes Tsonga was low?  
MARTIN KLIZAN:   First set 6‑4, then I lost 1‑6.   In the first game I was leading Love‑40 on his serve, so if I break him it's a little different story then.   He hold the serve, and then I don't know what happened, but he started play very good.   He killed me 6‑1.   
So it was a little bit different set than the first one.   Then again, I started to feel better and better after each point and I won 6‑1, and then I broke him first game again the fourth set and I was holding the serve good.   ThenI made a very, very ‑‑a lot of unforced errors when I was leading 4‑0.   
But, I don't know.   I won 6‑3.   
   
 Q.   Was it helping maybe to see how frustrated he was at some points, smashing racquets or trying one‑handed backhands?  
MARTIN KLIZAN:   I was concentrating only on my serve to play good game, and I didn't look at him, what he's doing.   I didn't care what he's doing.   I just was concentrating, thinking straight to me.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a game plan going into the match?   How did you prepare?  
MARTIN KLIZAN:   For this match?   Well, like always, like normal match.   For me, it's no different if there is No. 5 player or No. 100 player.   It doesn't matter.   I want to play a good game every match.  
For me, I mean, I had no pressure.   If I lose, then I lose.   I lose with good player.   But I won and I'm very happy.   It means for me more that I beat finally a guy from top 10.   
   
 Q.   Is there any difference playing in a stadium like Louis Armstrong or any other court here for you?  
MARTIN KLIZAN:   It was really different, because there were like, I don't know how many people, but the atmosphere was perfect and I like.   
The crowd was clapping also for me.   When I did the good shot they were like clapping for me.   I know Tsonga is a big love for them or something like this.  
But it was very‑‑ how do you say?   Also they wanted me to win, so I'm very happy that I played it and I enjoyed it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT