AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 2, 2020
Shingo Kunieda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. KUNIEDA/G. Reid   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  10th Australian Open singles. Must be very proud.  
SHINGO KUNIEDA: Oh, yes, this is a big victory because I couldn't win last year Grand Slam. Now my age is 35. The rivals are very young. Sometimes I was feeling I don't have any more chance win Grand Slam.   
But today I could win, so it is very happy, yeah.   
 Q.  It's not just your 10th Australian Open, you have equaled a very prolific record in wheelchair tennis, 44 Grand Slams, equal to Esther. How does that feel, as well?  
SHINGO KUNIEDA: I don't care about record. It is different division between men and women. But Esther is the best player in wheelchair tennis, so it is a big honor, yeah, same, equal the Grand Slam title.   
 Q.  How great is it to start the year like this ahead of Tokyo later in the season?  
SHINGO KUNIEDA: Yes, this is a very good start for me. I changed a lot in winter, winter season. From two weeks ago I came Australia. I play good, really good, much better than last two year. I had the confidence to win this time, yeah.   
 Q.  Today really was like you were the chess master. Every time Gordon said 'check', you said 'checkmate'. You are a fan of a Japanese form of chess as well. How does that help your tennis?  
SHINGO KUNIEDA: Japanese chess, shogi, is not high level. But sometimes feeling same, same tactic between tennis and shogi. Yes, little bit help to my tactic I think.   
 Q.  You said you made some changes in the off-season. Can you tell us about those?  
SHINGO KUNIEDA: Yeah, I change racquet. I change my forehand, backhand, swing, how to swing.   
 Q.  Talk about the celebration at the end. Was it more of a sigh of relief at the end?  
SHINGO KUNIEDA: Yes, a lot of pressure on Grand Slam final for me. I didn't have a chance to win any more Grand Slam sometimes I think. I had a lot of pressure before the match.   
But, yes, I could play well. Gordon, as well, from first five games he was almost perfect. Yes, I was feeling this time is no chance again.   
But I just hit strongly. I wanted to play like practice in winter, so that's why I could win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT