COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 29, 2015
Ben Boulware
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you hear them say they're going to expose you on Thursday night, how do you respond to that?  
BEN BOULWARE: I don't know.  Hopefully he doesn't expose us.  I'm not one to bring up any controversy or make any headlines.  He can say what he wants to say, but you can't talk your way to a win.  You've got to play the game.  You can talk all you want to, but that's obviously how they're trying to win the game.  You've got to play the game.  You've got to line up and beat the man in front of you, so we'll see on game day.   
 Q.  How is your shoulder?  
BEN BOULWARE: It's feeling good.  It's back to 100 percent, so it's feeling good.   
 Q.  When was it feeling the worst?  
BEN BOULWARE: Probably the USC game.  Then it was feeling a little better at the UNC game.  It's just feeling good now.   
 Q.  What was that thing that you were like strapped in?  
BEN BOULWARE: It's like a sling, and it's like strapped to my front of my shoulder pads, and it's strapped to the back, so I really can't move it at all, which helped my arm out that I had some extra padding in the front of my shoulder pads and in the back, just for like extra support.  It helped out as much as possible, but it's feeling good now.   
 Q.  Is it like a labrum type thing?  
BEN BOULWARE: No, it was more my collarbone.  I hit my collarbone and strained that muscle right there or that ligament, whatever it is, and strained the ones near my AC joint.   
 Q.  So you're just wearing it as a precaution?  
BEN BOULWARE: Yeah, I'm just wearing it because I want to.  I'm kind of getting used to it now, so it helps out, to might as well be safe.   
 Q.  How would you describe OU's running backs?  
BEN BOULWARE: Both of them are very powerful.  They're downhill runners.  They're probably like old-school running backs.  Big dudes, athletic, and for them being so big, they have very good straight-line speed, so they're all-around great running backs.   
 Q.  And going up against Dalvin Cook and people like that?  
BEN BOULWARE: They're kind of different backs.  I think Dalvin is obviously an All-American type running back.  He's a great running back.  I think Dalvin is a little more shifty.  Perine and Mixon obviously have that shiftiness to them, too, and I think they rely more on their power.  It's a little something different, but hopefully we'll adjust to it and get acclimated to it.   
 Q.  And Mayfield, putting pressure on him --  
BEN BOULWARE: Yeah, we're just going to kind of not let him run around as much as possible because I think he makes a lot of plays when he gets to scramble and get outside the pocket and just get on his feet.  He's obviously a great player, Heisman contender, so we want to -- that's one of his best abilities is his legs.  He obviously has a great arm, too, and he's kind of Manziel-esque, so I think we want to keep him in the pocket and don't let him run around like he wants to.   
 Q.  You said you can't talk their way into a win.  What was that a reference to?  
BEN BOULWARE: There's a bunch of smack talk going around from their side.  They can do that if that's what they want to do, but you've still got to play the game.  They can talk all they want to, but on Thursday, come Thursday night, you've got to strap up and play the game.   
 Q.  Have you interacted with any of them personally?  
BEN BOULWARE: Yeah, I talked to them.  We had our interviews yesterday.  They walked in when we were leaving, and we saw each other, and it was like, well, might as well spark conversation.  I saw Mayfield, and last year in the bowl game, we had like a little dance-off, and I was just like, we're going to be dancing this year.  I'm looking forward to seeing you, and the ponytailed lineman, I was like, I'm looking forward to you dancing this year.  They're good dancers.  I was just trying to be funny.  We talked for maybe 30 seconds.  That's all it was.   
 Q.  Are they better dancers than football players?  
BEN BOULWARE: They're pretty dadgum good football players, too.   
 Q.  Are you surprised how much they've been talking this week?  
BEN BOULWARE: I'm really not worried about it honestly.  They can talk all they want to.  We're focusing on us.  We're focusing on Clemson and our game plan and focusing on doing anything possible to get the W on Thursday.  We're really not worried -- we're obviously here, but we're not worried about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT