AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2019
Jaime Echenique
Gregg Marshall
Markis McDuffie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Wichita State - 73, ECU - 57
COACH GREGG MARSHALL: Well, I thought we were very workmanlike tonight, building the lead to double-digits in the first half and then ultimately, over 20 in the second half, and then we were trying to finish the game and not tax these guys too much physically in terms of minutes, and we were able to do that.  But I think the key was our bigs, getting the ball inside and being very effective.
Q. Coach, and both players, I know it's only been a few minutes.  Could I get your impressions on Temple who you will be playing tomorrow night?
COACH GREGG MARSHALL: A very good team.  They're in form all year, other than when they came down to play us.  But at the same time, we are trying to make the NCAA tournament as well, so we will be trying to win the game.  I've got great guards.  Shizz Alston was tremendous last time and Quinton Rose and Pierre-Louis, they are ball hawks, they can shoot it, drive it, and they are a well coached team.
MARKIS MCDUFFIE: Same as coach said.  They are a really good team.  They are from Philadelphia, so we're going to have to guard the ball one-on-one and help the hooker and play more smarter and more aggressive, so we could pull out the win.
JAIME ECHENIQUE: We lose that game and we did a good job, but we didn't get the result that we wanted, it is a really talented team and a physical team.  Everything will be determined tomorrow, so I hope we do a good job tomorrow.
Q. You said that you have been rooting for them all year and you have spoken highly of Fran Dunphy.  Is that the reason why?
COACH GREGG MARSHALL: I would like to see Coa h Dunphy him in the NTA tournament in his last year.  I hope they are solidly in.  They have both done enough to be in, but we are both trying to get to the NCAA tournament and our only way is to win the next game and then the two subsequent games.
Q. As far as the fans go, it sounds like there was a big Wichita State following out there.  Does that help you out at all, does it give you extra adrenaline?
MARKIS MCDUFFIE: Most definitely, to see the fans' support and I have been a part of it for four years, so I'm not surprised at all.  But I know these guys are, considering it is their first time experiencing an American tournament, a Conference tournament and it helps us.  As soon as before the game starts, they all surround us and support us, and show us a lot of love and give us a lot of energy before the game.  That's how amazing this Wichita State community is.
THE MODERATOR: Much has been made about your relative lack of experience coming into this season.  Are we at the point now where that is out the window and you are peaking at the right time with seven straight wins?
COACH GREGG MARSHALL: Well, at this point, you know, these guy, these freshmen especially and a couple of JuCos, we had ten scholarship guys that had never played a second of Division I basketball and two more that had played very few minutes in their careers of Division I.  So other than Markis McDuffie, it was 12 newbies and they have to consider themselves veterans.  They have logged a lot of minutes, more than they probably should if we weren't in that particular situation.  They've handled it well, they have got better, they have allowed us to improve, and that is what we try to do in this program, get these young men better so that we can win more games and then ultimately, they can have better pro careers.
Q. This being your last Conference tournament as a senior, do you think that puts more pressure on you personally?
MARKIS MCDUFFIE: Not at all.  We have to handle business.  This is something that I'm used to.  I'm used to being in a Conference tournament and playing in the play-offs, used to being a Wichita State basketball player and winning in a winning program, so it doesn't put no pressure on me personally.  It makes me cherish the moments I have left.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT