WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2007
Arron Oberholser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Nice finish.   
 ARRON OBERHOLSER:  Thank you.   
  
  Q.  Can you just take me through the last three holes?   
 ARRON OBERHOLSER:  Yeah, I hit a driver and a 5-iron on 7 to about 20 to 25 feet and two-putted.   
 8, I hit a 3-wood and a sand wedge.  I had a really good yardage for the sand wedge and hit it to about a foot and tapped it in.   
 And then on 9, I hit driver and a 3-iron, just cleared the bunker, rolled back to about 15, 18 feet above the hole, then made a nice putt there.   
  
  Q.  So it really changes your position going into the weekend.  Can you just talk about your position now, where you are and how you feel about things going in?   
 ARRON OBERHOLSER:  I'm going to have to putt better.  You know, I'm sure a lot of the guys near the lead can say this as well as I can, but I left a few out there.  There's no doubt.  I'm striking the ball very well.  I'm just not making a lot of putts, I'll be honest with you.  I think the stats will show that to a certain extent.   
 I'll be honest, I never feel totally comfortable on this golf course, I really don't.  It's like Augusta, a lot like Augusta, where you have to think from the green backwards.  You've got to play the holes backwards.  Where is the pin, and then kind of play accordingly with your shots from the tees, and if you don't leave the ball in the right spots on these greens, you have a hellacious putt.   
  
  Q.  1 and 2, you had to play underneath the hole and there's no underneath the hole?   
 ARRON OBERHOLSER:  Exactly, and I hit great shots there.  On 1, I hit it six feet above it.  I could read the Titleist as it was rolling to the hole, and then missed it.   
 And then 2, I hit a great 7-iron to 10, 12 feet behind the hole.  Again, playing defensive and didn't read it real well, ended up missing that one.  Those are the kind of -- I've left a few out there like that the last two days, but again, pretty happy with where I'm hat.   
  
  Q.  Padraig and then Vijay and Tiger right there.  Do you look at names like that in front of you or is it too early?   
 ARRON OBERHOLSER:  I don't think you can ever look at names like that.  I don't think you can look at names.  Just go out there and play golf, man.  That's what it is.  You go out there and you chase it and you hit it again.  You add them up at the end of the day.  Whatever happens, happens.  You can't control what they're going to do.  If you could control what they were going to do, yeah, I'd be running with shoulder pads on ready to go.  But you can't.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT