MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Arron Oberholser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ARRON OBERHOLSER: Speed of play was fine. You've got to do so much thinking out here when you're hitting these longer irons into these holes now, you've got to think about how far the ball is going to carry. Then when it releases, how far is it going to roll, and then where the slopes are, where is the pin, where do I want to leave the shot, what's the wind doing. There's a billion variables that you've got to calculate in your head before you even pull it back.   
 When you're hitting wedges, 9-irons, 8-irons, it makes it a little bit easier because you know the ball is going to pretty much stop where you hit it, but when you're hitting 5-irons and 4-irons into par-4s it's brutal.  
  
  Q. People complained last year that they took the excitement out of the course because of the length. There were no roars and lot a lot of birdies. Do you feel that's a legitimate complaint?  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: I don't know. I heard some roars today. But this is about as easy as it's going to play for the week. I mean, it's just going to get tougher. But yeah, I think because of the length of the golf course, the excitement has been taken out of it a little bit.   
 It definitely favors the longer hitter now in my opinion, and guys like me -- I didn't go for a par-5 in two today. I had an opportunity on 13, but I chose not to because it just wasn't worth it. I laid up and hit a good wedge and just missed the putt. I laid up on 15 with 243 to -- I think it was 243 to the front. I mean, it's just not worth going for the par-5s around here because you can make a 7 so fast it's not even funny.  
  
  Q. What Zach Johnson did last year, is that kind of --  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: That's basically how I'm playing the golf course, just playing the angles. That's all I can do. I'm not long enough and powerful enough to get into some spots where I can have irons into these greens, and I'm not going to hit a 3-iron from a baseball swing on 13 to that green. So I'm going to lay up and wedge it on and try to make birdie that way every time.   
  
  Q. You've been around sports and golf and you've played the game, and we all think we know what's going to happen. Zach Johnson really doesn't have a good Tournament, comes in here in 1st place or 2nd place, Tiger who we assume is going to zoom along, is 2-over. Any explanation?  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: Tiger never plays the first round well and Zach loves Georgia. It seems to be that way, just by history. Tiger will be there on Sunday, as he always is, and Zach will continue to play this golf course in a formulaic manner like he did last year, and in the same manner all of us shorter hitters have to play golf course, or medium-length hitters, whatever you want to call us.   
 You're just going to have to play the angles. You're going to have to leave yourself good angles into the par-5s and not leave yourself above the hole on the par-4s.  
  
  Q. Are you completely healed from all your problems?  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: No. This is my last tournament. I'm going to take two months off. And I've got a medical for next year. I don't know what I'm going to do, but it's no fun playing golf like this.  
  
  Q. I imagine.   
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: No, it's not.  
  
  Q. What is it now?  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: The hand isn't healed up completely, the shoulder isn't right, and my neck is bothering me. Other than that, I'm great.  
  
  Q. You shot even par --  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: 1-under.  
  
  Q. Can you do anything surgically?  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: No, this is -- surgery is always a last resort. This is something where I just need some rest. The doctor who did my surgery gave me some bad advice, told me that -- he didn't understand what a golfer has to do with his left hand to hold a club, and that's where the surgery was. It was right in the palm of my left hand where I hold the golf club. I came back too early, because I thought I could, and I'm just -- I can play one round of golf, I might even be able to play two decent rounds of golf, but to play three, four consecutive and then to play two, three weeks in a row for six days a week, I can't do it.  
  
  Q. When did you apply for the medical?  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: Six days ago.  
  
  Q. And it's been granted already?  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: Yes.  
  
  Q. And that will be it for the year?  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: I'll play this tournament. I'll see how it heals up, but as of now I'm out indefinitely. We'll see how long it takes. But the more I use up -- the funny thing is I've got to take complete time off. I can't be out there hitting balls or doing anything. If I take two months completely off and then don't hit a ball and try to come back in the middle of the summer, it's going to take me a month to get my game back to where I want it to be anyway.   
 I think what I'm going to do is just play a couple events late in the season this year, like Grayhawk at home because it's ten minutes from the house, maybe play Vegas and call it a year, and then I'll have 22 or 23 events next year to do what I need. I don't play more than 22 events a year anyway. I'll be fine.  
  
  Q. Have you gotten advice to take at least a few months off?  
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: No, I haven't had any advice. That's my advice because I'm tired of listening to doctors, to be honest with you. It's all guesswork and white coats. I'm not happy right now. Can you tell? It's very frustrating.   
  
  Q. We ask you the same questions, I understand.   
 ARRON OBERHOLSER: No, I appreciate it.   
 It's frustrating to hear from the doctors, you've got to do this and you've got to do that, and they don't know what they're talking about, half of them.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT