WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2008
Arron Oberholser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How is your shoulder feeling? 
 ARRON OBERHOLSER:  The more I played in succession, the more sore and tired and fatigued it's gotten.  As of now I'm undecided as to whether or not I'm going to the Honda Championship next week.  I don't know what I'm doing next week. 

 Q.  You didn't play Pebble, which is obviously one of your favorite tournaments.  Was that to sort of rest up? 
 ARRON OBERHOLSER:  Oh, yeah, absolutely.  That was to -- I got a cortisone shot on Monday, so the doctor recommended that I not play because of the cortisone shot.  So I don't think it's smart to play after a cortisone shot, anyway.  So I waited about ten days before I even started hitting little pitches around the green and so on and so forth.  I putted, but for the most part I just waited and tried to just get it better, just let it calm down. 

 Q.  Were you at all surprised that you won yesterday? 
 ARRON OBERHOLSER:  Oh, yeah, sure I was a little surprised that I won yesterday.  I was surprised that I had -- that I had a lead all day on Mike.  I think it was -- considering that was my first competitive walking round since October, you know.  So I think that you're right, it surprised me. 

 Q.  And then of course today you get off, unfortunately, to a bad start.  It was your second shot you hit into the -- 
 ARRON OBERHOLSER:  Yeah, that was just nerves.  That was just pure nerves, because right now I still don't -- I've got a good idea where my swing is at but I don't trust it totally. 
 And then on the second tee, I just said, all right, dude, this is ridiculous.  Let's quit being a wimp and start hitting the ball like you know how to.  Stripe it off the second tee, hit a good 8-iron in there and ripped that and that was pretty much the story the rest of the day.  I hit a lot of good iron shots but just couldn't convert anything.  Had a lot of 'tweeners. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT