NHL DRAFT
June 27, 2014
Sam Reinhart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Were you kind of prepared or what did you think?   
SAM REINHART:   You know, I've been prepared for it for a long time.   I've certainly visualized myself in this uniform, and I'm just thrilled and ecstatic to really make an impact there and go to Buffalo for the first time.  
   
 Q.   What did you kind of think in the days leading up?   It seemed like a very uncertain‑‑  
SAM REINHART:   Yeah, very unpredictable.   I'm thrilled the way it turned out, but the last couple days have been very busy, but couldn't be happier with the outcome.  
   
 Q.   Did they challenge you a little bit more in your interview with them?  
SAM REINHART:   Yeah, they did, and I think that's only positive for them to do that.   It gives you a lot of confidence in them and what they do in those types of interviews.   You know, I'm thrilled and happy and very thankful that they selected me.   
   
 Q.   What answer do you think might have helped sell you to them?   
SAM REINHART:   You know, I'm not sure.   I think the biggest thing is I feel ready to play, and it's a young team, I'm very familiar with that organization.   Like I said, I've pictured myself in this uniform for quite some time, and I'm very excited and very motivated to step in the league next year with a young team that's developing very well and to make an impact.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of kind of Reinhart tradition continuing with your brothers and your father and just the name sort of continues through another year and another team.   
SAM REINHART:   Yeah, a lot of times you get asked if you feel any pressure, but to be honest, they've made it so much easier on me, everything I've been a part of I've been fortunate enough to watch them go through it and see how they've handled things.   It only makes it easier from my perspective, and to be able to be around them for the last couple years in a pro environment, and they're trying to do the same things as me, so it's awesome that they're going through the same things.  
   
 Q.   Where do you fit in this lineup?  
SAM REINHART:   It's a young team.   I mean, they have a lot of good, young defensemen, and I'm familiar with the forwards, as well.   I'm excited for an opportunity to step in there and play right away, and I know it's not going to be given to me right away, but I'm going to do everything I can to step in there and make an impact and take advantage of every opportunity.  
   
 Q.   Is there a player that excites you more than another?   Whose game do you like?   
SAM REINHART:   I mean, I'm familiar with Myers and Hodgson, and I've played with both of them and even practiced with them over in Switzerland for a few days, so we've talked about the possibility quite a few times, and they're obviously exceptional players.   I'm excited to go in there and meet everybody, and we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Had the Sabres indicated to you that you're going to be in the NHL next year?  
SAM REINHART:   We don't really talk about that.   I think the biggest thing for me is the opportunity you get, and I'm excited to take advantage of everything I can.   You know, like I said, it's not going to be given to me right away, and I'm going to earn everything I get.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your emotions.   How proud are you of the family legacy?   
SAM REINHART:   Yeah, it's great.   I mean, we're all each other's number one fans at the end of the day, and I know they were thrilled for me like I was when they got drafted.  
   
 Q.   Talk about when you felt when you woke up and as the day wore on.   
SAM REINHART:   It was a busy start to the day, so I wasn't thinking about it too much.   As it slowed down and got into early afternoon, you started thinking a little bit more, and then obviously you come here the nerves ramp up a little bit.   But we were with friends and family the whole day and was kind of relaxed in that manner, but really thrilled the way it turned out.  
   
 Q.   Do you realize in four years this team is going to be 17 first‑ and second‑round picks?  
SAM REINHART:   Yeah, I'm familiar with that.   Like I said, I've pictured myself in this uniform quite a few times.   I'm thrilled and very thankful they selected me.   It looks like a bright future ahead, and I'm ready to step in there and start that process of getting better every year.   It's going to make it an exciting time.  
   
 Q.   What does it mean to be (inaudible)?  
SAM REINHART:   You know, it's always an honor.   I think at the end of the day, no matter where you go, you're going to be excited.   There's not a bad place to play in the NHL, and I'm thrilled it's in Buffalo and excited to start there.   But I know the draft is one day.   I'm going to enjoy this whole process like I have been.   But I mean, you really have to look at the long run and what's ahead.   This is just one day, so I'm excited to get back in the gym and work out and get on the ice and start preparing for training camp.  
   
 Q.   Describe your game for fans back in Buffalo that might be hearing from you for the first time.   What are your strengths do you think?   
SAM REINHART:   I think I use my hockey sense to my advantage, seem to be in the right place at the right time.   You know, I think when I come in, I make players around me better, and I kind of can fit with any player, and I'm pretty versatile.   I'm excited for whatever they have in store for me there, and I'm going to work for everything I get.  
   
 Q.   Talk about playing in the NHL at the combine.   You talked about the work ahead of you.   What lies ahead of you the next few months?   
SAM REINHART:   You know, the biggest thing is as a young guy trying to break into the league, continue to get bigger and stronger, and I've been doing that for quite some time now, and I'm only motivated now to continue to do that.   Like I said, I've been around my brothers, working out with them the last couple years, and they're in the same position as me trying to make that jump, and it's not easy, but I've been familiar with the process and how much work it really takes.   I'm just excited to get back into things.  
   
 Q.   How much have you thought, especially with this jersey on now, about a future rivalry with your brothers?   
SAM REINHART:   Yeah, it's great.   I mean, you talk about the whole thing, playing against them and with them, we've all done it.   I don't think I've ever played against Max in my career, but I've played with him.   I've played with and against Griffin numerous times, so I'm pretty familiar with that concept and on this stage where we all want to be.   It'll make it that much bigger.  
   
 Q.   You said you've thought about this uniform for a while.   In your mind was this the most likely landing spot for you?  
SAM REINHART:   Yeah, I think so.   At the end of the day, it's pretty unpredictable, and like I said, thrilled and thankful the way it turned out, and I'm excited to get to Buffalo.  
   
 Q.   I know they challenge everybody at the combine about what would your reaction be if‑‑ they're not going to necessarily hand it over.   
SAM REINHART:   Yeah, for sure I'm certainly aware of that.   It says a lot to the kind of guys they are, and I would love to surround myself with an organization like that, that really demands the best out of you.   You know, I'm excited to get in and really make an impact and show them what I can do.  
   
 Q.   They need the help, obviously.   
SAM REINHART:   Yeah, I think as a young guy a lot of it is confidence and are you comfortable around those surroundings, and the quicker you get comfortable and get some confidence, the better off you'll be.   I mean, like I said, I know of a couple guys on the team, so I'm comfortable with the situation I'm going into.   I think the change of pace is a big thing for a young guy to come into and obviously the overall strengths I've been working on for quite some time and going over to Europe to get that experience was very important for me heading into the summer.  
   
 Q.   Have you been to Buffalo?  
SAM REINHART:   I've never been to Buffalo, so pretty excited about it.   Before they had the pick, I saw some of the city, so looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Are you looking forward to joining a team that needs the offensive help?  
SAM REINHART:   Of course.   It always feels nice, but I mean, I'm looking forward to going in there and doing whatever I can to help.   Like I said, I know it's not going to be easy and they have some talented players in there right now, and I'm going to try and complement them nicely, and I'm looking forward to that possibility.  
   
 Q.   What's next for you after the celebration?   Do you study this lineup?   Do you study the organization?   What do you do next?  
SAM REINHART:   Yeah, like I said, I'm familiar with it, but you're obviously going to look into it that much more now, and I'm excited to get back to probably a week of training and head to Buffalo I'm sure.   I'm not sure when the camp is exactly, but I'm sure it's early July sometime.   Looking forward to heading in there and getting started.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
SAM REINHART:   That was good, I liked it.   Didn't stall at all.   It showed some confidence that he has in me, and that only makes me feel better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT