UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2018
David Beaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Oklahomas State - 48, Kansas - 28
Q. Coach, the big plays today and the chunk plays that Oklahoma State was able to get turned out to be pretty costly.
DAVID BEATY: The way the game was going, big plays really was the tale of the tape at the end of the day.  We're clawing back in the game offensively a little bit here and there.  And then, you know, we'd give up a big play that we just simply haven't seen that by our defense.  That's something we're going to have to go back and really take a good look at and make sure that we've got our guys prepared for.
Q. A couple plays over the top.  Was there anything you were seeing they were trying to take advantage of, especially early in the first half?
DAVID BEATY: I mean, I think that we gave up a couple of big plays last week against Baylor deep.  I think maybe they saw that on tape, and we obviously didn't do a good enough job adjusting to that.  We did pick one of them off, which was good.
We have a couple young guys back there that I think are learning and growing a little bit.  If there's one positive thing, I'm watching Corione grow up right before our eyes and watching Clint coach the dog out of him and him really never really flinching.  He's back in there, he doesn't look unconfident.  So that was a positive.
We gave up -- there was 15 passes that they threw today, and they had 312 yards.  So it's 20.2, I believe, per pass completion.  Man, that number cannot happen.  We have to be better than that.  And they were pretty good.  They connected on them today.
Q. On the flip side, Carter Stanley, what did you see in practice this week that allowed you to give him the nod and, obviously, go the distance today?
DAVID BEATY: We just felt like he was going to give us the best chance going into the game.  I think his skill set fit us a little bit better with a very active defensive line and a blitz package that possessed some speed and allowed us to escape more than maybe we could have with Peyton.
We had a plan to put Peyton in the game, but the game just never really went in that direction.
I thought he did some good things, but not enough.  We still made some mistakes and errors that cost us, got us off the field early in some drives, and we've got to be better.
Q. Stanley was efficient, I think seven plays of 20-plus, so you were able to get a little more explosive play in the offense today.
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, I think seeing Sims reemerge was really good today.  I thought there was one point there in the second half where we offensively looked like the team that we saw in fall camp, and it was a lot of the things that we really want to be.
I think we kind of got side-tracked there in the first half, right towards the end of the half, with a couple series that we became somebody that we're not, and we had to go back in the second half and rally and understand that, man, we got to stay who we are, and we'll be productive.
And we actually came out and started fairly good.  Gave up some big plays there after we would cut it.  I think we cut it to ten after that third quarter, and we just were never able to sustain it.
Q. You mentioned Sims.  Moved him inside today.  How does that help his skill set, and was that the key to kind of getting him a few more looks today?
DAVID BEATY: Versus this team, it was.  The good thing is he's played a lot of ball so you can play him in a lot of different spots.  He's really a very cerebral guy.  He's smart, so you can move him around.
This week, that was the best place to put him, and I think he did a really nice job of adjusting to that.  He actually looked like the old Sims today.  We were happy to see that.
Q. What was the message to the team after this this one?
DAVID BEATY: Well, you can't give up big plays.  That's one of the big things that we talked about.  We talked about really everything that we saw today, we already knew.  It's very correctible, the different things that are showing up each week, and we've got to cut those off before they show up.
You know, we're playing in the Big 12.  This is the best conference, in my opinion, on the face of the planet.  You're going to come in next week, and you're going to play an unbelievable football team so you better be ready to go.  It's going to be like that every week.  That's what makes it great coming to the KU and playing in the Big 12.
Q. Thanks for your time.
DAVID BEATY: I'll just start real quick by just giving Coach Gundy credit.  I think he was down quite a few players today.  There was some guys that didn't show up even on the sideline over there.  The Bundage kid didn't play.  You know, their punt returner and inside slot, he wasn't there.  They obviously lost McCleskey earlier in the week.  So for those guys to rally and guys that had not played a lot stepped in, and I thought he did a pretty good job for them.
And I think that's a tribute to him.  I think him and his staff did a really good job of getting them ready to go.  They had a really good game plan, and they executed it.  That was the key.
There's a lot of things that I'm sure we'll answer in the questions so why don't we just take those.
Q. Did you see enough good things in Stanley that you have settled your quarterback situation, and he'll just start the rest of the year?
DAVID BEATY: What we'll do is we'll go back and look at the tape.  It's hard for me to make that assumption without looking at the video.  There's a lot of things that we saw that we liked.
But honestly, it would be very premature for me to say that right now without looking at everything because sometimes, you'll look at something out there, and maybe we got away with something that you're like, oh, that's not really how it should go, and we got lucky.  So we'll see.
Q. Second quarter, Oklahoma State was second and goal from the 1.  Can you explain the poise and the discipline your defense showed to where it led to an offensive pass interference and then kind of pushed them back and they had to settle for a field goal?
DAVID BEATY: Well, that was a positive in the game, and that really goes back to what we preach.  And Clint does a terrific job of making sure that our team understands the value of making them snap it again.
There's a lot of things that can happen when you make them snap it again.  That was a drive that basically was living proof of it.  Make them snap it again, and it paid dividends that time.  You know, we missed a tackle on the play previous to that, and then we had another guy come off of a block and make a tackle and get him down.  We had a guy miss the tackle right in the hole.
Normally, that's a touchdown, but there was some extra effort there by another guy to get him down, and that led to them having to kick the field goal.
Q. Is this the Carter that you saw in fall camp?
DAVID BEATY: Some of it.  I'm going to have to look at the tape.  Once again, I'm managing the whole game so really being able to say -- we didn't win.  We scored, you know, some points to put us in position.  So it's not like we won the game.  So I'm not going to anoint a guy because we scored a few points.  We've got to look at it on the tape and make sure, right?
I think he did some really nice things, but there's also some things that I know he would want back and we would want back.  He'll get better from here.
I will say this.  I will attribute it to his work ethic and his demeanor.  As the announcements came down, because you can't rep 'em all, he continued to rep every day.  Every single day, he would air rep by himself basically back there -- I say by himself, but back there.
He got every single play.  Because of that, it's given him an opportunity to execute for us when his number gets called.  Hopefully we'll get Miles back this next week, and we'll have a full room of competition.
Q. Can you just explain, you had all three quarterbacks the winter, spring, and summer.  Carter was obviously the third quarterback the first four weeks.  What sort of tended to lead to the third guy playing every snap in this game?
DAVID BEATY: Well, we knew they had an active front.  We knew they had some very athletic guys.  They're built a little differently than they used to be.  They were really, really big.  These guys were long, lean, fast guys.
I knew Bundage could be an issue and that they had some good rushers.  We knew we couldn't just stand in the pocket and really hold up.  We still got sacked five times today.  They're an active front, and the match-up was not great if we weren't able to move.
So I don't look at it like you do.  No disrespect, but I don't look at it as one, two, and three.  I know maybe that's semantics, but Carter's skill set fit what we needed, and we trusted him because he's prepared well.  And it wasn't anything against Peyton.  He's prepared well too.
Q. To be clear, then, every week, is that what you plan to do, look at the specific match-up and say hey, we fit --
DAVID BEATY: You're not going to make me into that right now, brother.  Listen, I got to look at the tape.  I mean, we're not talking about the quarterback anymore so no more questions about that.
Let's go to something else.
Q. You talked about how, in the previous games this season, defenses were rolling towards Steven Sims.  Will you have to continue to creatively utilize him so that he can be productive and just be the Steven Sims that we've seen?
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, I think we need to continue to do that, obviously, to get your playmakers the ball.  I think one thing that's helping us is Pooka being established.  Him in the running game makes it very difficult sometimes to roll and dedicate two guys to him.
Now you're a man short in the box or you have to be in two-high, and I don't know that people want to be in that a lot when you got a guy that can take -- like Justice Hill is a very good example.  I mean, this guy rushes for 189 yards is what I saw, and I'd be interested to see how many yards he had after first contact.
I mean, the guy's a terrific player, but we got to get him down.  I mean, get him down.  We got to use technique and get him down.  He doesn't do it like that to everyone, but he does it to a lot of them, right.
We helped him a little bit today, but, man, he's a terrific back, and I thought he ran really hard.  He was as much a difference for them as anybody today, I thought.  I thought he did a great job.  I think he's going to be a sure-fire pro.  Going to have a great career.  I'd draft him, I promise you.
Q. Did Sims being more involved today have anything to with better chemistry with Stanley, or do you think it was more play calling?
DAVID BEATY: Well, I think maybe where we had him in the alignment probably helped a little bit versus their alignment, versus what they do.  That helped a little bit.
And then knowing kind of how we thought they would structure a little bit, we felt like we got to a point where we had enough guys trained in other positions to be able to move him safely and be able to get the ball to him.
Q. (No microphone) were problematic for the secondary.  Anything in particular stand out for you with those breakdowns?
DAVID BEATY: You know, they did a lot of double moves today.  They scored on three double moves today.  Two of them were the same play.  They're dragging their guy down underneath, and it looks like he's kind of given up on the play.  It's a really effective way to do it, and they were in kind of a max protection look so they got good protection out of it.
Those things take a little while to develop.  You know, the first one, Tyron, they drag him underneath, and he looks like the play's over.  And then he just takes off, and that dude's really fast.  If you lose your eyes now, it's a problem.  That's what happened with Shaq.
They came back and did it the other way with No. 2, Wallace, on Corione.  They double moved Hasan.  That guy ran a great route.  I mean, he broke it.  It was a great route.  Hasan, you know, he's trying to play aggressive.
But, you know, technique will take care of that.  We'll solve that.  We'll get better at that.  But the kid did run a good route, I'll give him credit out that.  Looked like he was running the out from the number two spot.
Q. How do your guys handle the emotion seesaw?  Interception, you're up.  Not soon after, offense stumbled, but then the defense comes back and forces Oklahoma State to punt.
DAVID BEATY: I thought that was growth for us.  It really was.  Offensively, we were livid as an offense and really as a team that we turned that ball over, because it certainly was preventable, and we haven't done that.
To see our defense come back, and we put Elmore in there, and he went back there and made a play, I mean,  it was fairly early in his snaps too, which tells us the guy's got some pretty good ball skills.  That was good to see.  Good to see.  I thought he really came in and competed there towards the end of the game.  I think we might have found ourself a guy that's been really playing a lot more corner for us than safety.  So that was good to see him do that.
All right, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT