KANSAS UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 22, 2018
David Beaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 7, Baylor - 26
COACH BEATY: Just opening up, my hat's off to Matt.  I thought they did a really nice job of being ready to play, bouncing back from a loss at home against Duke last week.
He does a really nice job of getting those kids ready to play.  They're definitely all in for him, and that's a good thing for him.
I thought that the story of the game was us on third down early in the first half.  Really, throughout the first half, we weren't able to get first downs, keep our defense off of the field.  And they converted a bunch of them, four or five in the first half.
We had them in long stick situations, and we weren't able to get them off, and you've got to do that.  We knew that coming into the game.  We talked about the key's going to be we've got to be able to get them off on third down.  We knew that we had to contain him and keep him in the pocket, and we knew that we had to stay in coverage when scramble drill occurred.  And we didn't do that once, and it bit us on that first touchdown.
We kind of got that fixed towards -- after that, but then we really didn't do a very good job containing him all day.  And Brewer can run.  I mean, he can.  Like I told you, he runs better than we wanted him to, and he did a really nice job of collecting yards today.
If there's any positive I take from it, it's that we allowed three points in the second half.  We just did not do enough offensively at all today.  I don't think we played well enough, and I certainly don't think we coached them well enough.
I think we got out-coached on that side of the ball, starting with me.  And that's not acceptable.  We will get back and get ready to play a really good Oklahoma State team this next week.
I know you've got some specific questions so we'll take them.
Q. What did they do to take Pooka out, and why did it work so well?
COACH BEATY: I didn't hear what you said.
Q. Oh.  That was their plan with Pooka, to take him out of the game, and why did it work so well after that one run?
COACH BEATY: Well, I want to look at the tape first, but it looked like they were doing a good job of really doing exactly what we saw.
They're going to press the edges and try not to let you press the outsides on wide, and they did a good job of that early.
And then inside, they were doing a good job of mixing up how they were stunting inside and having their backers in there to try to slice through gaps.
They're more of an aggressive, upfield team.  We knew that.
You've got to string first downs together to be able to be patient enough in your zone game to crease them.  The teams that had done that against them, strung first downs together, they'll give up a gap every now and then.
But that's the risk you run of playing defense like that.  But he did a really nice job today.  It didn't hurt them throughout the day.  So credit goes to them.
Q. How much of the step up was Baylor from maybe the last two teams you played?
COACH BEATY: You know, I did not think we were outmatched.  I'll tell you that.  I did not think we were outmatched, and I mean that with all due respect to Baylor.
They have a really nice football team.  Matt's done a really good job recruiting.  But that's certainly not going to be the excuse.  We had plenty to get it done.  I didn't think we did a very good job of executing the game plan.
Obviously, we didn't do a good enough job teaching it.  I didn't do a good enough job teaching it.  And, you know, as a result, we didn't get it done as a group.
But we'll learn as a group and we'll move forward heading into this next game.
They won a game that both of us had an opportunity today, and I thought they made the most of it.  I tell you what, they had a good crowd today.  They were into the game, and it affected it a little bit.  It affected it with their noise and things like that.  That's good to see for them.
That makes a difference, when you've got a crowd like that.  It was pretty loud in there.
Q. The call on Corione that was initially called a targeting, but that was overturned upon review, how critical was that call, especially considering that Ricky Thomas was unavailable?
COACH BEATY: It was pretty big.  You know, we've got a little bit of depth there at corner so it wouldn't have been as crazy.  But when Ricky became unavailable midway through the week, that was a hit, now, because he's a good little cover guy.
That one hurt a little bit.  But we've got other guys that should be able to step in there and be able to do well enough.  And that really wasn't an excuse, but it was good to see that Corione was able to stay in there, because we got a bunch more snaps out of him.
Q. On that touchdown he gave up, did he not know there was someone behind him?  Was he just confused or what?
COACH BEATY: You know, I know it really kind of looked like that, but his coverage, he just kept seeking.  It was kind of a double cloud type look, and he was really responsible for the flats up there a little bit.
But nobody showed in his area, so he just kept seeking, which is his rule.  I don't think he knew that there was a guy behind him.  He just got to have more awareness, because it changes when the quarterback breaks the pocket.  There's times where you've got to know that you have to latch on to the nearest guy.
And, unfortunately, I think, you know, there, I think he'll learn from that.
Q. Kendrick didn't come back into the game after that running play.  Looked like he was rubbing his shoulder.  Did he get injured on that play?
COACH BEATY: Yeah, he was unavailable after that play.  So we'll get him back, get him looked at, see where he's at, you know.
Obviously, him being unavailable gave Carter an opportunity.  We felt like we needed to be able to move around a little bit there at the end, and I thought Carter did a nice job of being prepared when his number was called.  He's been like that for three years.  So he was ready to go, and he's worked his tail off in practice and that made him ready when he got in there.  We moved the ball a little bit with him.
Q. The fourth and nine at the Baylor 27, could you just explain the thought process going through that there and what you followed up (no microphone).
COACH BEATY: Sitting in the situation that we were in, we felt like we needed to score right there.  Just based on how things were going overall, you know, that was the situation where we felt like if we had a good call, we thought we might have a chance to get in.
We'd been struggling to get them off early.  That's when we went for it.  We felt like we had a good call.  It just didn't work out.
Q. There were some things that we saw today that we didn't see last week, some false starts by the O-line, some sacks allowed by the offense.  Is it just about discipline?
COACH BEATY: A little bit of that.  I think, once again, we rushed for 122 yards.  We rushed for 400 yards last week.  When you rush for 400 yards, you're not having to be in as many passing situations, and it helps you a little bit.  They can't pin their ears back.
They got a sack there late.  We were in an obvious passing situation.  Feder got beat off the edge there.  That's an advantage, obviously, on the defense.  No excuse for the guy up front, but we need to establish that run game so we can get our play action game going.
And I thought they did a better job establishing their run game today.  They didn't hit us with a lot of big just inside runs early with our backs, but they started kind of opening for them late, and it helped their play action game, you know.  I mean, that's where we need to certainly establish that ground game.
And it's about putting first downs together.  I mean, we've got to put first downs together to be able to get that run game going.  You can't just run it three downs all the time if you're not getting anything out of it.  So we've got to be better on first down in the run game and in the passing game as well.
Thanks, guys.  Safe travels.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT