UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 1, 2018
David Beaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Nicholls - 26, Kansas - 23   
 Q.  On 3rd down, the play obviously didn't go as planned.  What kind of broke down there?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, you know, we got into a set where we knew we could possibly crease them on a little run play in there with him.  As we look back at it, we felt like we were in pretty good shape.  They twisted on us a little bit.  We should have been able to pick it up, we weren't able to pick it up, and he got us tackled for a loss.  But if we were able to pick that up, we were going to crease them pretty good.  Just got to execute better.   
 Q.  Their mistake gave you the safety and then they give you the ball on the 10, you cashed in on that.  Do you feel like you let one slip away?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, I mean, as much as they had some situations that let us back in the game, we let them right back in the game as things turned around.  We certainly can't make those kind of mistakes down the stretch.  You know, Joe was hustling.  I'm not -- I certainly would never want him to grab a facemask.  But I know he was hustling, and the Bussey kid cut back and he just got him by the facemask.  Those happen from time to time, but we've got to bow our neck and we've got to be able to stop him right there, right.  They had a couple of really big plays in the passing game down the stretch there that we've -- those are mano-a-mano plays, and you've got to go make that play, and he made it and we didn't.  We had a big call down there in overtime with the pass interference that was critical, and we've got to be better there.  You've got to be better.   
If you do that, you're in pretty good shape.  If you don't, they don't get that fresh set of downs.  I mean, that quarterback was a tough sucker, man.  I've got to take my hat off to him, Chase.  I knew it coming in.  He's a tough kid.  I like his moxie.   
 Q.  You'd had as many as 10 guys snapping the ball during camp, but obviously Alex must have done it well because you settled on him.  Did that shock you what happened tonight?  
DAVID BEATY: He had not shown that coming into the game for sure.  I think we kind of know what we need to do to fix it.  I think it's pretty simple.  I just don't know that we made the adjustment quick enough, and that was a key play right there in overtime, that 1st down.  You've got to get yardage on that first drive, that first play in overtime.  That's an area that you've got to be better, and we can't have a mistake like that happen.   
 Q.  Coach Meacham said that what set Peyton's growth was in his recognition.  That's how he's improved.  How do you think he managed the game?  
DAVID BEATY: At times I thought he did really, really well.  There were some times tonight where I think he kind of got locked on a little bit and he held the ball a little bit longer.  We'd like to see him be able to get rid of the ball in certain areas of the field a little bit quicker with regard to not taking sacks in certain situations.  We've got to be better managers of the game in that area for sure.  But he showed some flashes tonight, but once again, he ran the ball really well early and then after that I don't -- he wasn't really given a bunch of chances to do it after that.  Miles came in and did a couple good things for us, and we really didn't have it present itself until later in the game again.  But he did some good things.  Any time you have five or six bad snaps in a game, I've never been a part of one that turns out very good.  That kills you.  That's five plays you had no shot.  You had no chance.  Before anything took place, you had no chance.  We've got to make sure we finish that.  We've got to take care of it, okay.   
 Q.  David, big picture, can you speak to that?  Where do you see the program right now?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, well, I'll tell you this:  The sun is going to come up tomorrow, and this team is going to continue to work towards the goals that they have set.  We knew coming in it was a good football team.  We knew that.  We knew it was going to take every single thing we got, plus overtime, maybe six, seven, eight quarters if it was going to take that, and it came to fruition.  We knew that they had a bunch of talent.  We knew that they were dadgum good on defense.  We knew that they were going to be very, very difficult to handle with the way that they max number the box in the run game, and you've got to hit some play action behind them to be able to loose them up, and I thought we did it at times.  We didn't do it enough.  We've just got to get better in that area.   
We're going to come out tomorrow getting ready for another good Central Michigan team.  It's coming up, and here we go.   
 Q.  That third quarter when they bust that 40-yard run, it seemed like maybe the defense wasn't quite set.  Is that the main thing that broke down right there?  
DAVID BEATY: Well, we were pressuring, and when you're pressuring, everybody has got a gap, and you've got to cut them all off, right, and I wasn't quite sure who it was at that point.  I'm going to look at the tape and see, but we've got to cancel gaps when that happens.  When that happens, usually it's feast or famine on both sides.  You can hit them for losses if everybody is in their gap, but when you don't cancel a gap and they keep you out of one, they can crease you.   
 Q.  Are you considering staying in the two-quarterback system in the next game against Central Michigan like you did tonight?  
DAVID BEATY: Well, we're certainly going to continue to use Miles, certainly going to continue to use him, find more ways to get him in the game.   
 Q.  Do you feel like that disrupted the rhythm in the first half when he came in for that drive?  
DAVID BEATY: We didn't think so.  I mean, we thought there were some things that he did pretty well.  I don't think that that necessarily disrupted it.  You know, I'll look at the tape and maybe see it a little bit different.   
 Q.  Can you update us on Pooka?  A lot of people were excited to see him tonight.  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, I really can't make a comment on that.  I can tell you what the release said.  It's obviously not a disciplinary reason.  I can't comment on anything else about Pooka.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
DAVID BEATY: You know, I think there's a thing called maturity and understanding the game that we have to possess as players and coaches, and we've got to find ways to get ourselves excited.  I've been on teams that have won eight games, and it's hard to get them fired up to play the next game.  Sometimes I've been on teams where you're a .500 team, and they come to work every Monday.  Just knowing these guys and this team, they won't react like the world probably expects them to.  They're going to come back and Monday will look good, Tuesday will look better, Wednesday will look even better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT