UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2018
David Beaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It seemed like Peyton took that loss pretty hard the other day.  That seemed a little bit out of character for him.  He seems usually even keeled.  What did you take from that, just his response?
DAVID BEATY: I know he cares more than anybody could ever imagine.  He's a very poised gentleman, no doubt about that.  Young man.  He was obviously very, very upset.  And I don't blame him.  It's like we talked about after the game, he and I visited for a few minutes.  And man, the truth is the truth.  You can say whatever you want, but there are seven or eight more plays in that game that if we get the things done that we need to get done, then it doesn't even come down to that play.
But I know that he feels responsible because it was the one he was involved in.  But he's a guy that just watching him come back and bounce back yesterday, he's more driven than ever, more focused and ready to go.
I felt, obviously, terrible for him.  But I feel terrible for our fans.  I feel terrible for our team.  To be able to get there and beat them in Manhattan for the first time since, I think, maybe '89 since coach got there in Manhattan, I think I'm correct on that.  And then ten years at Governor's Cup has been away from this place.  We expected to win the game.  We expected to get the Governor's Cup, and when we didn't get it, there were a lot of tears.  I shed a few and so did the rest of them.  There is nobody we feel worst for than our fans.  We felt like we prepared well enough to go get it, but we didn't get it done.
Q. You referenced this yesterday, but you probably got a couple good looks at the holding call.  What did you think about those?
DAVID BEATY: You know, I will say this.  I've said this a bunch before, our game is in danger when it comes to the people who officiate it.  We don't have enough.  We don't have enough.  Those guys, man, it's hard for them to win on a week-to-week basis.  You know, they're humans, and I think that's what makes this game great.  Sometimes there can be good calls and sometimes maybe guys make mistakes.
But when it comes down to the job that they do, I'm thankful that we have them all out there, because without them it's very difficult to operate what we do.  Obviously I speak week-to-week with Greg Burks who is the head of Big 12 officials, and I couldn't feel better about the direction they're heading with his leadership.
He's phenomenal.  He gives us great constructive criticism or an education each week on what we saw and what we thought we didn't see, and the things we thought we needed to.  So those plays that you're talking about, there were a lot more in that game that we could have secured it, and it wouldn't have had to come down to that, but it didn't happen.
Q. Your passion for the the players seems you care a lot about them.  For the players that are sticking around, do you have any qualities that you want to see in the coach that does follow you?
DAVID BEATY: Oh, man, that is not for me to say at all.  The couple things that stick out to me is whoever it is, they're going to be damn lucky.  This is a great place, not good, but a great place.  Terrific folks that work here.  Terrific people in our State.  Great fans that deserve better, and a ton of great kids.  Great kids, and you know, I think that their leadership is in good hands.  So whoever gets the job is going to be very lucky, a very lucky individual.
Q. Have you let your mind go there yet?  It doesn't sound like the future is affecting your preparation and the day-to-day of all that.  But have you let your mind go there about what you are going to miss and the disappointment?  I look at that building out there, and it was something that was a big thing to you the whole time you were here, and barely going up now and you won't be in there.  Are you letting yourself go there yet or trying not to?  How does that work?
DAVID BEATY: I know it's going to sound cliche, but I have not.  And I park in the back, so I don't see it.  That kind of helps a little bit.  I really haven't seen it go up.
But I looked out there the other day, and it's amazing how fast it's going up now.  Just to see the process of that thing being a hole in the ground for a long, long time, and now it's just kind of flying up, which is good.
Like I said, it's going to make this place even better.  It's going to give it the opportunity it needs to draw top flight players, and that's really all I care is that this place continues to go up, because there was a lot of work that was done here.  Hopefully some, if not all of it is appreciated.  But it doesn't matter whether it is or not.  It matters with KU moving forward.
Q. I know you're not a selfish guy, but do you feel that will be part of your legacy, some of that stuff, when you look back 25 years from now?  Or even five years, whatever it is?  Will that mean something to you, obviously, more than maybe the wins and losses?
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, it will.  I think what will mean the most to us is the men and what they turn out to be.  There were some pretty special guys that have overcome and really kind of faced a lot of adversity.  They've faced a lot of things that maybe might be fairly rare in our game.  For them to be as resilient as they are, I think those are traits that great leaders possess, and people that go great things, they possess that, right?
So I think that's where I'll look back and go, hey, man, I think we made a difference there, which is good.
Q. The OU offense has been humming for years now.  What has Kyler's entry meant?
DAVID BEATY: Well, I said it last year.  I thought Baker Mayfield was as good a player as I've ever seen.  But to have another one that pops up this year that you're sitting here watching the things that he does, and you're like, my word, what a great player.
It's amazing how fast this guy is.  And I know him really, really well, so I know how fast he is.  But, man, he is a fast dude.  He can do so many things with his feet.  But, man, his release is phenomenal.  The way he gets that ball out and how accurate he is with it, how strong he is, man, he is just a rare athlete.  He is a rare athlete.  But they've got other dudes over there, the Brown kid, man, that guy could play anywhere anytime.  He's a stud, going to be a great player.  He reminds me a lot of the Tyreek Hill kid, so explosive.  What's the kid's name?  Sermon, I mean, they have a long list of backs.
I've said it many, many times, I think one of the most underrated coaches in college football is Cale Gundy, he just stocks backs like you wouldn't believe.  For him to be able to continue to get those guys year in and year out, Trace Herman's a good player, man, really good player.  Ceedee Lamb is playing his rear end off.  Ceedee has nine touchdowns.
Lee Morris who nobody talks about, but this guy, all he does is make big plays.  You watch him in that Oklahoma game, I mean, this dude just makes ball plays, he's hard to tackle.  Really talented guy.  You know, I mean, I'm worried about the dad-gum H-back now.  This guy's making plays all over the place, right?  I mean, they've got guys.  Not the least of which the things that you have to think about is how good they are with what Bill does up front.
Offensive line-wise, they're talented.  They do a good job.  They do a really good job, and I think that has a lot to do with how successful they are.  Yeah, they're talented there.
I know there's been a lot made about for them defensively, and that really just goes down to the history of Oklahoma and how that thing's been built on great defense, and I get that.  And I'll tell you this, and remind you of one thing, they're 9-1.  9-1.  They find a way to get the job done, and they are athletic as all get out over there on that defensive side.  So it's going to be a challenge for us to move the football on these guys because they are talented.  Don't kid yourself.
There are a bunch of really good football players over there.  You just see them continue to get better under Ruff.  Now that Ruff has taken over, and you see his philosophy on that.  You just see them continue to get better.  I think they're a team that could definitely be a team that could win this league for sure.
Q. You guys have played that early game a lot this year.  But nice surprise this week getting a night time game on national TV?
DAVID BEATY: We don't control that.  Obviously excited about that.  Great opportunity for us to be on that marquis time.  I think from our standpoint we've been kind of in that slot one other time last year, and we've got some atoning to do for that.  We need to go out there and play well.  We need to make sure that we go out there and do the things that we need to do to go win the game.
They're a good football team, but we expect to win.  I mean, we have a great game plan.  We have plenty to do it, we expecting to win the game.  If we do the things that we know we're supposed to do, we're going to win the game.
So I'm excited about it.  I'm excited about being on national television.  For the guys that are going to still be here, for the seniors there is a lot to play for.  But for the guys that are going to be here, it's going to help them get new buddies that are going to be good players.  So we need to get this thing done for the future of the guys that are on this team that are still going to be here.
Q. You obviously know a lot of people in the coaching profession.  Has anyone you know kind of reached out to gauge the lay of the land of this program or anything like that to get your input?
DAVID BEATY: None, nobody has done that.  Guys, we respect one another in that regard.  I'm sure they'd reach out to some of my assistants if they knew that they were contacted.  But I haven't heard, looked, I have no idea.
But that's not my job.  My job is to make sure that we go get these games won, we get it won.  And I believe and know that we can do it.  So that's what we're totally focused on.
Q. Are you the kind of guy that after the season you'll want to coach again right away next year, or are you the kind of guy that maybe I'll take a year off and kind of decide where I want to go from there?
DAVID BEATY: I really haven't given that any thought.  I'll tell you this:  I'm not smart enough to do or I don't have any other particular set of skills that I could use, so coaching football is probably the best thing for me when it comes to that.  But you've got to be wanted.  There has to be a situation where you would fit, and guys know better than to call me, even if they wanted to talk to me right now.
But we're not going to focus on anything about that until after the season's over, but I can't see myself just sitting around.  I mean, you guys see how ADD I am.  I don't know how in the world I could do that.  My wife would probably leave me pretty quickly, I would imagine.  I mean, I'm home a little bit more here on the weekends, and it's a problem already, so I've got to get used to figuring out where I fit in at the house a little bit.
Appreciate everything, y'all.  See y'all this weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT