UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 4, 2017
David Beaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Baylor - 38, Kansas - 9   
 Q.  You seemed to have made progress against K-State.  Things seemed to regress today; is that kind of the most disappointing part of what happened today?  
DAVID BEATY: You take those two weeks back-to-back, and obviously you want to be able to build on it, and we didn't do that today, and that's more than frustrating.  But like I said just a second ago on the radio, there's going to be three more games here, and we'd better be ready to go because I know those guys are going to be ready to go.  We'd better be ready.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
DAVID BEATY: You know, I thought -- I take my hat off to Matt.  Like I said, I think he does a great job.  He had his team ready to play.  I thought they schematically exposed us a couple times on some things that helped them.  Their play action pass, being able to hit Mims.  We knew he was a great player.  I didn't think we defended him well at all today.  We've got to do a much better job there.  There's times where our defense actually did some good things, man.  They battled back and got off the field a couple times, one time on a turnover that was almost for sure points, and they were able to get off.  That was outstanding.  They kept battling until the very end.  If there's anything that I do think is a nice part about it, it was that those guys kept fighting out there.   
But I think they executed well offensively.  They threw the ball well.  That kid threw the ball really, really well.  We knew he was a good runner.  He threw the ball really well today.  No. 15 made some great catches.  He got open.  The other guys made plays.  They hit us on a couple of tight end down the middle that we're in position, all we've got to do is knock it down, not even be able to pick it, and we just didn't make the play.  And then there's another one where they slipped the running back out and he gets behind one of our guys, and those are things that you don't see very often, but you've got to be able to stop them when they show up.   
We've got to be better execution wise at those points of attack, and then we've got to score touchdowns.  We just can't keep -- where we really have to become better is we have to -- once we get inside that plus 30, that 1st down after that plus 30 has got to be good, because if you just go back and look at it, 1st down after plus 30 has been -- it's been going backwards or it's been a stalemate and almost without exception we're in a 3rd-and-long situation.  You give them an advantage when you do that.   
We've got to be able to get in better 3rd and medium to 3rd and short, more manageable 3rd down situations than 3rd and 8, 3rd and 9, 3rd and 10.   
 Q.  You mentioned 1st downs; seems like it's always a hurry, you try to get a hurry-up and it never works.  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, you know, we talked about that at halftime.  We talked a little bit about learning from the first half, about going fast.  There was one occasion where we did go fast.  Taylor Martin got outside and got us down inside the 15, I believe it was down there, or inside the 20 I know.   
But we have to continue to look at ourselves and say, when we're going speed ball there, are we getting what we need to get out of it, or is it becoming counterproductive, and we talked about it at halftime to be able to slow it down and get good calls on that 1st down, try to get positive yardage so we're not in 3rd-and-long situations.  That hurts you.   
 Q.  You said Tuesday Baylor kind of reminded you where you guys were at the first year.  To lose to that team by this margin, what do you say to fans that are saying that can't see signs of progress?  
DAVID BEATY: Well, I'll say this:  They're nowhere near where we were.  We were down 30 plus scholarships.  They're not even remotely close to that.  I said that there's some things that they're facing.  So they're not even close to where we were.  We're still not there.  But that's no excuse.  Like I said, Matt is a good coach.  He did a good job.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the way your defense fit the gap and held their assignments?  
DAVID BEATY: Man, you know, some things out there were encouraging, particularly when we were backed up in situations a couple of times watching -- just watching Clint continue to work over there.  I mean, we've got to really do a good job of getting that secondary up to speed.  I thought for the first time in a few weeks they kind of regressed a little bit, and we've got to get them back to where they're making that upward trend.   
 Q.  Probably the most disappointing loss so far; how do you get them back and get them ready?  
DAVID BEATY: Man, we've got a great locker room.  We don't have to get them back.  They've just got to let this one go.  The reason we don't have to get them back is because they believe.  But we've got to let this one go.  We have no choice.  We're going to have to let it go.  We've got to learn from it and move on to the next one because like I said, we've got three really, really tough opponents that we're facing down the road.  We've just got to learn from it.  I know those boys in there are disappointed.  I know our coaches are disappointed.  I know our fans are disappointed.  They've got every right to be.   
 Q.  The field goal attempt in the first quarter, did you talk to the officials about that?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, you know, honestly as you communicate with the official, they made the right call.  They did a good job.  One of their wing officials came crashing in, and the only thing that would make them hold up something like that is if the ball went out of bounds on your sideline or their sideline where they had to reset, or they had to reset.  He had to allow Stacy I think was the guy that was holding us up, and he had to allow the wing official to get set.  Sometimes as a coach you don't see all that.   
 Q.  Joe Dineen with 11 tackles; how important is it that he do that?  
DAVID BEATY: I mean, I can't -- I don't really even have any words.  He's a tough dude.  He's hurt, and to play that consistent, he's a stud.  He's good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT