UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 3, 2018
David Beaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Iowa State - 27, Kansas - 3
Q. You had to overcome plays made by the opposition early, but how tough were those two plays that Butler comes up with?  How much did that set everybody back?
DAVID BEATY: Literally both sides, offensively and defensively, we needed to start better to be able to do what we wanted to do in this game this week.  There's no doubt about it.  Obviously made a big play, two big plays there.
The first one, that one was disappointing because we felt like we knew all week that was going to be something they may go to.  We felt we were in position to pick it, we didn't execute it.  When you're that close, you got to execute it.  We knew pretty much all week where they were going with the ball.  That's why it looked so close.  Right there, have to make the play.
Second one, he makes a great play.  Double move.  Likewise offensively, we have a couple of good drives there early that are going to really kind of set the tone.  I thought Peyton made a really nice throw down the sideline.  We weren't able to come with it.  That would have put us in the end zone early.
The story of the game is missed opportunities for one team, the other team staying the course, not shooting themselves in the foot.  We made enough mistakes for them to be able to walk away with a victory today.
They're a good football team.  He does a great job.
Q. What did you see that was an issue with some of the snaps?
DAVID BEATY: Right, you know, there were a few that really affected us, but not as many.  I thought Peyton did a really nice job handling some of those things, still getting us into plays, which was good.  They got a good nose.  I said all week he's a really good player.  You get your hands full when you got a guy like that in front of you.
We can't have any of those, zero.  But we had plenty of opportunities.  We weren't able to make those opportunities count when we needed them.  They just kind of have progressed a little bit faster than we have offensively today.  We got to be better than what we were.
Q. You were able to move the ball, get some drives going, but not get points late in this game.  What did you see that needs to happen to turn those drives into points when you are moving the football?
DAVID BEATY: Well, I've got to do a better job of getting them into better things, getting them into things that are maybe a little bit easier for them to execute.  That really falls right on me.
We got to make plays when we get an opportunity to make plays.  I still think that's kind of one of those deals where everybody has to be on the same page and clicking.  Very disappointed we didn't get the ball in the end zone the last couple drives.  It's disappointing because we felt like there was a lot more production out there than what we were able to get today.
Q. You mentioned those couple plays early.  Your defense did settle after that point in time.  What kind of adjustments do you think they made to keep you in it?
DAVID BEATY: I tell you what, they played good enough for us to win the game today I felt like.  They held them to, what, three points in the second half or something like that.  They kept them out of the end zone, drove them back, had them miss a field goal.  Just answered the bell over and over again.  I can't say enough about what Coach Bowen and his staff did today.
We still got to be better on third down than what we were.  We have to be able to help offensively by putting points on the board, a collectively played game.  We didn't do that today.
Q. How do you build everybody back?  They had a bounce in their step this past week.  Didn't come to fruition today.  What do you tell them about advancing forward to next week?
DAVID BEATY: It won't be difficult because we have a big rivalry game coming up.  It won't be difficult because those young men in that locker room down there see it just comes down to us making plays, not making mistakes, right?  They can see that, they sense that.
Unfortunately we let this one get away from us.  Like I told the team, we can't let this affect us because we have a big game coming up.  There will be no problem getting that bounce in their step, I can assure you.
Congratulations to Matt and his crew.  They continued to improve over there.  Record-wise he does a good job coaching.  You can see that team evolve.  They have some really good players that made plays today.  That's what you got to do.
I thought they made plays early in the game that really helped them.  I thought the kid made some nice plays today.  A couple of big plays defensively.
But I was really proud of our defense settling down in the second half.  I think we gave up three points.  I felt like we played good enough to win defensively.
Offensively, it starts with me, not enough production.  It's not okay to move the ball up and down the field, but you got to get in the end zone.  I don't care what the issue is.  We got to get in the end zone.
I think we can all look to what the issues were on those drives.  The issues were we weren't able to get in.  We have to get together collectively and get in the end zone, get points on the board.  We were capable of doing that today, and we simply didn't do it.  That's unfortunate.
I thought we played a pretty good game on special teams.  Really felt good coming out of that half knowing we were getting the ball back.  We didn't start fast on either side in the second half like we really needed to.  We needed to get points on the first drive, particularly a touchdown.  Defensively we were finally able to get them stopped.
Those are major goals that we accomplished last week.  We didn't get those accomplished.  Those things will help us win.  We'll look at all the things on tape.  We'll gather.  The thing that I see in that locker room is guys that know we're okay, we just got to make plays.  That's what it comes down to.  They take that personally, so do we as coaches.  We'll make sure we're ready to go next week.
Take some questions.
Q. Can you talk about a drop early that would have been a touchdown, another drop, fumble.  Seemed like that was a big part of the football game for your offense.
DAVID BEATY: Yeah.  That hadn't been part of us to this point.  We've actually been pretty good.  The ball gets close to us, we've been making the play.
We had a lot of game left to play.  I was proud of our team the way they handled that.  He came back and made some plays late in the game, which was good.  The one down there where we fumbled it, there's no excuse for not taking care of the ball.  It's the number one thing we talk about, valuing that possession, valuing that football.  It's unfortunate that happened.  The amount of effort and work that we put into how to secure footballs, really how to run after a catch like that, would have prevented that.  I know he'll learn from that, there's no doubt about it.  We need him to.
Q. You said on the radio you have to do a better job getting your guys in the end zone.
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, obviously I didn't do a very good job because things that we've executed well all week, we weren't able to connect on now.  That's unfortunate because they were there.  We just weren't able to connect on them.  That comes down to the person coaching them.  That's me.
At the end of the day that comes down to me.  That's not on the rest of them guys.  I got to find a way to get them in better things that are easier for them to execute.  We can certainly do that.
I thought Peyton played pretty good today.  We got into a point situation in the fourth quarter where we're chasing points, you now have to throw the ball a little bit more.  I think I saw we threw it 43 times.  That's obviously because we had to throw it a bunch in the fourth quarter.
Had we been able to get some scores early, I think that halftime should have been a lot different, as all of us know.  That halftime should have been a lot different.  It didn't get done.  That's unfortunate.
Q. (Indiscernible) how much does that alter the timing of that play?
DAVID BEATY: It does.  Particularly when you're throwing the ball, it made some issues if you're in a read, run-pass read issue.  The good news is a lot of those came on things where we were handing the ball off so it didn't hurt as bad.
There's no excuse.  That's the first thing that goes.  We can't have any of those.  Even one of those is not okay.  I know we got a good nose on us, but we got to be able to do a better job there.
I thought they were handling the challenge up front.  I was proud of our offensive line because the plan coming in was to go after them in the run game.  I thought we were doing a really nice job of that.  We just got to finish the drives off.
Q. They keyed on Pooka.
DAVID BEATY: If you know anything about football and you study these guys, they are a drop-eight look, all right?  They got three down linemen and they drop eight.  They had a bunch of breakups in the pass game, nine, but that's because there's eight guys back there.  When there's eight guys back there, most of the time there's going to be somebody close.  They have eight, you have five at max, right?
I think that's what they do.  That's who they are.  The whole league knows that, right?  Everybody that they play has struggled.  When you try to get the ball down the field, that's why you want to stay out of those situations.
We worked to get all of those guys the ball as best we could with the space we had given to us.  I thought he did a really nice job today doing the things that he could.  We had a plenty good enough plan.  We just have to execute it better as coaches and players.  I know our guys will take that challenge.
Q. The fumble after the catch, those type of things, how does that knock the offense's confidence overall and how do you recoup?
DAVID BEATY: I don't think it did.  Our sideline demeanor, everything was really good.  We can't let those things get us twice.  That's the big thing, right?  Obviously you don't want them to happen.  But I judge by when I go to the sideline how they're reacting as we're making adjustments.
I thought they did a nice job of being pros, handling that, really building the guy that made that mistake up, which is what we needed.
Obviously you don't want that momentum breaker.  You have to make good on those opportunities.
Q. What did you see in the sideline demeanor?
DAVID BEATY: The thing they've been around a bunch is knowing we play for one another.  That's David Bailiff-ism.  I learned from him a long time ago you play for one another.  When your brother needs you, you got to be there.  Sometimes it's tough love, sometimes it's don't let that beat you twice, we're going to need you.
He came up with some nice plays towards the end of the game.  That's really all you can do is move forward.  You're only as goods as your next.  Whether it's a good play or bad play, you're only as good as your next.  I heard guys talking about that, over and over about it's the next.  Whether you scored or not, it was going to be about the next.
Halftime was terrific, watching the defensive guys make comments to the offensive guys.  I like where we're at as a team.  I know we've got a fun game to play in here this next week.  I'm excited.  Our guys are excited.  We're going to go to work on them right now, okay?
Q. (No microphone.)
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, I don't know how many guys I've ever coached could really do what he had to do today, or what he did today.  He'll be leaving pretty quickly here to attend the funeral.  But was really proud of him.  We had that number available.  It was a way for us to be able to honor his brother and his family.
But it was good to see him out there.  I think I could see in his eyes that it was giving him some peace out there, which was good.  I know his brother loved to see him play ball.  He loved football, too.  He wore No. 3.  I think in a bad time it was a little bit of peace for him.  I was proud of him.
Proud of our defense.  I thought those guys played well enough there, particularly through the second half.  We weren't able to put enough points on the board, which like I said, that falls squarely on me.  That's unfortunate for our team.  I should have done a better job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT