UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2017
David Beaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Kansas - 38, Southeast Missouri State - 16   
DAVID BEATY: Good to be in here after a win.  There's going to be half the teams in the country that are going to start off 1-0 and the other half are going to be 0-1.  From that standpoint just thankful and grateful that we're 1-0 after that game.  I think I said it just a few minutes ago, I take me hat off to Coach Tuk; his staff does a great job.  There's a lot of Kansas boys on that staff.  Their defensive coordinator is from Hayes, Coach Wiemers is a guy that -- he wouldn't stop.  I mean, every time we'd plug a hole, he'd move to something else.  He's a good football coach.  I mean, he kept trying, kept moving, and we had to keep solving.  That's something that I've got to take my hat off to those guys.  I do believe that they probably out-energied us as we went down the stretch there, and that's something that we control.  We've got to get better in that area.   
A lot of self-inflicted things that I think if we can get them shored up, which I know we can, we've got a chance to be a decent football team, but those things can't show up.  We talked about playing a clean game before we started.  Several penalties, several of the big variety that is something that we can't have.  Those are all mental mistakes that we can prevent, and then turning the football over, we can't do that.  We can't throw it to the other team, and we've got to be better situational awareness on that last drive.  But some really positive things, too.  I thought we did some nice things.  We've got to do a better job of covering punts.  We've got to get off blocks at the line of scrimmage.  That was disappointing to see.  But I know Coach Deforest and those guys will get that solved, and we'll definitely be better next week.  And take my hat off to them; they did a nice job there.  They put the ball in jeopardy and we weren't there to capitalize on it, and that's disappointing, but we'll get there.  Let's take some questions and make sure I answer what you want to hear.   
 Q.  What did you see out of Peyton out there?  
DAVID BEATY: You know, he did get off to a quick start.  That was something that everybody wants to do, right, but you don't always do it, but he did.  He got off to a quick start.  He's a guy that we thought was going to be a very, very talented guy, and you could see glimpses of that tonight.  I think he had four touchdown passes and 300 and some change, and I think that gets close to some records out there in terms of some guys that have done it pretty well to get on that wall over there that I think is here.  Two interceptions, I know he wishes he had a couple of those throws back, but he'll learn from them.  He also made some great throws.  I mean, he's obviously got a quick release that our offensive line did a great job tonight, I think.  I think they did a really nice job.  I've got to watch the tape and see.  But the thing that Peyton helps you with, his release is so dadgum quick, it's different than most.  He can get the ball off a lot.  You know, he got hit a few times and you almost don't see it because he can trigger it quick.   
 Q.  What was your view of Peyton's pass (indiscernible)?  
DAVID BEATY: You know, I saw it, but he's done it a lot in practice.  He's a long body, big ol' hands.  Looks like a defensive end.  I know, man, he was sick.  He was sick when he didn't get that second one down there.  He's down there doing push-ups on the sideline, and I had to like get him to calm down because he knows he had another one there.  We need him to play that role right there.  We really did.  I thought Ben had some good plays tonight.  I know he wishes he had that one down the sideline back, but just using him in some versatile situations was good.  But being able to use Chase down there, that was an unbelievable catch.  I thought he was out of bounds until we saw the review.  It was a great play.   
 Q.  That throw to end the first half, did that get Bender rolling?  
DAVID BEATY: Well, I thought it would, and then we came out in the second half and we had a dadgum penalty on the kickoff return and put us inside the 10, then we get another holding call or a pass interference call.  Those are just things that just to so disappointing because you get off that goal line, and it would have been nice to see if he could have stayed on that role there, right.  But I was very pleased.  I think it was a 52-second drive or something like that.  I can't remember.  But that was good to see.  With Meach calling plays and Meach running our offense, I looked at him tonight and I said, how much time do you need, he said, 27, 29, as he's in a squat position, just calm as could be.  I said, all right, we'll give you 58, is that good.  He's like, yeah, we can do that.  He's fun, man.  Those kids really responded to him well down there tonight.  I thought Jesse Williams and his guys did a good job, and to see him interact with our staff on the sideline was good to see tonight.   
 Q.  What was it like to see Ryan Schadler back on the field?  
DAVID BEATY: Well, honestly it's almost a miracle if you know really what he went through, which I think it's been talked about a little bit, but you're talking about a guy that if he played last year, I'm not sure what would have happened.  Unfortunately you don't want to think that way, but to see him out there and doing what he's doing, man, that's just a -- I mean, shoot, it's one of them deals where it's in somebody else's hands.  You know, there's a higher being there and it's there for him, and I just enjoyed watching him go out there.  It was fun to see.   
 Q.  Did you guys talk beforehand or afterward about what he meant to him?  
DAVID BEATY: You know, the thing he said right before we went out, he's like, man, do you remember a year ago?  I was like, yeah, I was in your living room.  We took the jet out there to come see you, and I wasn't sure you'd ever play football again to be honest with you.  I was really worried about whether you were going to take another breath at times because he didn't look good.  But he's a tough dude and he's a faithful guy, and I knew when he got out of that surgery, you could just see in his eyes he was not going to be denied.  He's a married guy.  He's one of our guys that's married, and he's got a terrific wife.  She's awesome, and man, I don't think he could have done it without her support.   
 Q.  When you look back at the 58 or however many it was when you first got here, that scholarship number, crawling and climbing and continuing to climb like you are, is this the year you need to have that rotation show up and do what they do there?  I know you've got a bunch of them, but it's got to be a nice thing to see.  
DAVID BEATY: I don't think you could say it any better.  Guys like Chase that have been here for three years, that was a young guy that really didn't know a whole lot when he first got here, have got to show up right now.  They've got to show up.  And being able to see him show up was a huge advantage for us.  You know, we didn't get everybody in the game tonight, but Clyde McCauley has come a long way.  I don't know if he got in there for very much tonight.  Larry Hughes has come a long way.  I mean, you're talking about Khalil Herbert has come a long way.  Taylor Martin has come a long way.  He went out midway through the game there.   
But some of those guys that were in that original recruiting class, Steven Sims, doing some of the things that he's doing, and I thought he did a really nice job in the return game tonight.   
That's something that we needed.  But watching those guys develop, some of those guys that we've had, Josh Ehambe, he was here when we got here, but watching him produce the way he's producing, Derrick Neal playing just about every snap out there, those are all young 'uns back there, and seeing them develop has been fun.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the freshman production?  
DAVID BEATY: Well, you've got (indiscernible) to get any rushing yards.  The thing about it is you -- you can't just say I'm going to run the football when they've got nine guys sitting in the box.  They're a double eagle team, which I'm sure y'all know what that is, right, double eagle team?  They've got basically the guards and the center covered, and then they've got their best two players are always playing the buck and the spur, which are the outside guys.  I mean, they've got seven in the box just by pure alignment whether they're one high or two high.  You're outnumbered.  You're going to have to run the football outside; they're not going to let you get in the A gaps.  It's very, very difficult to do.   
And I thought Meach did a really nice job of sprinkling in the true freshman at tight end tonight.  Bostic has been playing tackle for us, and we moved him out there.  Seeing Ben Johnson go on the line and getting in some double tight sets and trying to help us with that odd front, and that's where a lot of that comes is when you're playing teams that -- they're not going to let you get the football in there, so you've got to figure out how you're going to produce yards.   
 Q.  Five touchdown drives, just five minutes and change combined.  Talk about that.  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, I mean, I would say a lot of the drives do end up like that.  I think we still have to do a better job of being a little bit smarter as a team and doing a little bit better job with the clock.  I think we may have played a series or two extra tonight.  If we'd have been a little bit smarter with six or seven minutes left on the clock, we may not have had to go out there again defensively.  There's just a lot we can learn from this game, which is good.  You love to learn from wins, not from losses, which is good.  So I'm just grateful that we got the win.  But there's a lot of good things that happen.  When I walk out of this room I'm going to go in my office and I'm going to enjoy it for about five seconds and then I'm probably not going to sleep over penalties and turnovers.  But that ain't going to fix it.  Fixing it is getting out there and working on trying to get those fundamentals down so we don't have that happen again.   
 Q.  We saw a little bit tonight out of the tight end production (indiscernible).  
DAVID BEATY: Just another -- it's another facet of Coach Meach's mind that he brings to the table that's really good.  I mean, he did a bunch of different things tonight with a bunch of different guys.  Watching the way he used the true freshmen Quan Hampton back there, who's a real talent; Kerr Johnson, another guy that made a great catch there on that dig route.  He utilizes all those guys.  Watching Daylon Charlot going in there in his packages and all those guys coming in -- guys, I told you we've got a bunch of receivers.  We've got bunch of guys now, and every one of them probably could be the starter.  I mean, we're about three deep at every spot, which that speaks to kind of what Matt said, we've finally got some experienced guys here that can do -- I think they're pretty good players, and if they keep giving Peyton time like that, it could be a fun year if we can get out of our own way with some of the things we did tonight, and I think we can fix those.   
 Q.  What was the reason for putting in Tyriek?  
DAVID BEATY: We're not sure we're going to have -- we're not sure how many opportunities we're going to have to use the young kid, right.  We didn't know if there was one drive left, and he hadn't played a lick of football, and we've already used his redshirt, so we wanted to hand the ball off a little bit to Reese Randall.  Reese did a great job getting that 1st down there.  Great kid, great story of a guy sticking with it, and I wanted to see what Tyriek can do.  I would loved to have seen him throw the football, but we were in a situation where we didn't want to do it.  But we've seen Carter play, and he didn't -- Carter didn't need to play in that situation.  We don't gain anything from it, not in that situation.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about just having everyone back?  You mentioned (indiscernible).  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, you know, Nick Reid came into the locker room just a second ago, and I grabbed him as we were coming in.  He was the defensive Player of the Year here, and he's hanging up out there in the front of that stadium, and quite possibly might be one of the toughest dudes that ever played here, and just having him come in that locker room and hug those guys tonight and be proud for them and with them, we tried to get as many of those legends in front of them as we can.  We want them to see the shoulders of giants that they're standing on, and we want them to look them in the eye because Nick Reid is a guy that was sitting on the bench with a screw coming out of his foot.  I mean, coming out of his foot.  It wasn't like some talk.  The screw was coming out, and he played through that.  That's a tough dude.  And that's the example that they need to see of what true toughness is.  It was good to have all those guys back, how cool was that tonight, Anthony Collins, I'm just sick that he wasn't able to make it here.  I hope everything is okay with him and his family.  But to see Bear and those guys, I would have loved to have seen him at halftime, to see Coach back here and going into Hall of Fame -- I saw him last night, got to spend a few minutes with him.  Man, it does my heart good because they deserve it, and what a great time that was in KU history here, and the good news is for us, we know exactly how they did it, and I'm not afraid to steal it for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT