UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 20, 2018
David Beaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 16, Texas Tech - 48
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. The missed opportunities when you had the ball inside the red zone, who was responsible for keeping the team up and engaged?
DAVID BEATY: I think that's obviously all of our coaches.  One of the main things that our quarterbacks do a good job of is making sure they're working up and down that bench, talking to those offensive linemen.  We were able to get down there, we turned the ball over on that one drive, watched Peyton work his way down that lineman bench, talking to them about, Listen, be efficient, keep doing what you're doing.
It falls on the leadership of your football team, the leadership of your coaches.  It goes back to me and the coaches that we have on the offensive side of the ball.
I didn't really feel that was a problem at all today.  We just didn't connect early on some things, didn't get the ball in the end zone enough.  That's the name of the game.
Q. Peyton was limited in his connections in the first half.  Was that timing?  Why didn't he have more completions?
DAVID BEATY: I know he wishes he had a few of those throws back.  I think he was trying to back shoulder some guys.  Left it short a few times.  As we made the adjustment from that point, he started putting the ball on the players.
When you give them a chance, they have an opportunity to do it, right?  That's what he said to those guys on the sideline, which is good.  I'm going to get the ball over the shoulder, to you, trust you to make some plays.  We have to start off that way.
Then capitalizing early in the game is critical.  We have to be able to go get a touchdown off of that one drive early.  Came back, were able to move the ball back.  The guy that helped us down there and did so much for us, listen, he's human, made a mistake.  They got their hand on it, it came out.  We have to be able to pick him up because he's picked us up so many times, right?  He played his rear-end off.  Never flinched as a result of that.  I loved his resiliency.  He's a tough dude.
Q. (Question about Ricky Thomas.)
DAVID BEATY: Obviously it did kind of change things a little bit on Mike not being available.  Now you're down another guy.  It was very similar to the week before at West Virginia.  Didn't have Ricky either, right?
The next man up mentality, having the next man up, whether it's McCullough, Ricky being ready when your number is called, being able to recover from your injury, make sure you're ready to go when you're out there.
I'll have to watch the tape to be able to tell you for sure how he played.  It was the plan to get him in the game.
Q. Were you expecting Mike to get ejected on that?  Bang-bang play, not much he could do.
DAVID BEATY: When I saw the replay, I've watched a lot of college football, I'm not real sure if it's easy for these folks to tell sometimes.  The consistency has not been really across the board.  I wasn't really sure.
I know he's a hard-hitter.  He put some hits on those guys today.  He does drop his head from time to time.  When you drop your head, you have to be careful, because you put yourself in harm's way of being ejected.  I know it hurt him, tore him up.  He didn't want to do that.  That's part of his growing up, learning to tackle better, keep his eyes up.
Q. How disappointed were you in the offensive output?
DAVID BEATY: We're disappointed because with didn't do enough to help us win.  Obviously talking to our players after that, we had a firm understanding of what we were doing.  I think everybody felt comfortable there.  They were engaged the entire time.
It was just a matter of connecting on some of those throws early in the game that were contested, heavy box stuff that we see on tape.  We just got to put the ball on that guy, give him the chance, because those turn into big plays.
You score on that first drive, you score on the one we turn it over, might be a different game.  Might be a different game.  But you don't get to go back, right?  You have to go convert on them.
One of the stats that I'm most disappointed in today is that we got three turnovers from our defense and we were able to get three points out of it.  The thing I will say defensively is they were able -- they gave us three turnovers, Tech got seven points.  They did their job offensively.  We didn't do the job there.  That falls on me.
Q. You mentioned the turnovers.  Two of those the defense gave the offense the ball at the 10 yard line.  How improbable is that, to only get those few points?
DAVID BEATY: I'm not sure how to answer that question.  I know you expect to win and get in the end zone down there.  The 10 yard line, your odds of getting in there, you have to feel pretty good about it, right?  That's just on us as a group.  We've got to convert and get in the end zone.
They had a kid drop and make a really nice play.  They were in a coverage that we've seen them be in.  We just got to read it better.
Q. Was Miles available today?
DAVID BEATY: Yes, he was.
Q. You only played one quarterback the whole game, different today.  What led to that change?
DAVID BEATY: Throughout practice he definitely, definitely showed the best grasp of what we were doing obviously.  Not that the other ones didn't, but he was definitely into it.  We were very confident in him.  We still are.  Still very confident in him.
He'll continue to improve and get better.  There's no doubt about it.  I think that kid has a lot more resolve than maybe people give him credit for.  A lot better leader than what people give him credit for.
The other ones were ready to go.  That's what you want to see as a coach.  We just got to play better.
Q. Were you hoping to get Pookah more involved?
DAVID BEATY: Of course, you are.  That guy on the other side of the field has been coaching for a long time.  When you have a really good player, people are going to do what they got to do to try to limit him.  I thought he still had good production.  I don't think it was off the charts.  When we got behind there, it changes the game plan just a little bit.  That alters it a little bit.
He did make some really nice runs today.  He wasn't able to get loose completely.  We would love to be able to find a way to be in situations where we're not feeling like we have to throw it a lot to get back in the game quick.  Obviously we'd like all of them to have better production.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT