UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2015
David Beaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
South Dakota State 41 - Kansas 38   
 Q.  Coach, there are kind of strange endings.  What did you see at the end of that one?  That's one of those things you don't see very often.  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, that's one I tell I don't know that I've ever been involved in one that ended like that to be honest with you.  But we practice those unusual situations and we always talk about those things not being a big deal until they're a big deal.  That's why we always talk about we focus on the next play being the most important play, and that play gives you an opportunity to play the next play.  And we weren't able to get that done just with the down the ball got played.  But.   
I'll say this, without Montell Cozart we wouldn't have been in that game at the very end of it, so there's give and take there.   
 Q.  Just a mishandle?  Couldn't come up with the snap?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, I think it's one of those deals where you'll have to take a look at the tape.  But most of the time when there's a snap situation, both guys are involved in it.  But you know what?  I've got to do a better job getting them coached up on that.   
We have to do a much better job of preparing for that situation, even more than we have, obviously.  And we do.  We work that, but honestly, that one's a tough one to swallow for our team and our staff.  But you know what?  Hey, we're going to keep moving forward and we're going to learn from it.   
 Q.  Down but then rallied.  You guys had 21 straight points.  Was it the defense being fuelled by the offense moving?  Was it the defense getting stops that fuelled the offense?  It looked like the momentum certainly swung for you guys for a spell there?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, I think it was a little bit of both.  I think both sides played off each other, I think the offense got it going there.  In that second quarter we started moving the ball a little bit, and then we came out in the third quarter and kind of had some ideas of what we could do to them heading out of the break.  And we got the ball back and said we need a fast start and we were able to do that.   
I think that really ignited the defense, and we got a couple stops there against a very good executing football team.  I said it before.  I take my hat off to Coach Stiegelmeier.  Those guys do a great job.  There is a reason they won a bunch of games.  I talked to him before the game.  He's a great dude and a really good man.  I know why they won a bunch of games.   
 Q.  Defense kind of took its lumps early and everything kind of settled in during that key stretch when you guys were making the come back?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, they did.  They got of after us early.  I was proud of Clint and his staff.  They regrouped and found some ways to be able to create some stops there, which was difficult, because No. 19 was playing well.  Quarterback was getting the ball to him.  When you start putting guys in the box, you start giving that guy one-on-ones, and he's a good player.  I said it before, he's a good player, but we've got to do a better job of being able to are neutralize good players like that, because we're going to see good players like that every week.   
 Q.  You got a good play from special teams which I know you pride yourselves on?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, absolutely.  That was great to see.  Seeing Schadler take off and score on the kickoff return and that was certainly great to see.  And really Tre' Parmalee there at the end gave us a great opportunity to get in position to kick that thing.  It would have been nice.  If we could have gotten that thing killed, you know, Wyman's got a really good leg.  It would have been fun to see how it played out.   
 Q.  You said early in the week, win or lose you wanted to take some things from this game.  Anything at the moment that you think you can take out of this one?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, I think the big thing is that we've talked about the three things that we wanted to focus on to get better faster was turnover margin, which we did not win today.  We gave the ball away twice and it turned into, I believe, 14 points.  We did not play a clean game.  And we've talked all week about making sure that we were playing penalty-free, and we had some penalties that cost us throughout the night that made a difference in the end of the game.  We've got to keep learning from that.   
Obviously, it came to fruition.  Those things will hurt you.  Don't give your opponents anything.  As good as they were, we gave them some things that made their job a lot easier.  But in addition, we also played pretty good on special teams.  So we've got one of the three going in the right direction.  We just need to make sure we maintain that and really continue to work on getting better at those other two, and I think we can get closer to where we want to be.   
 Q.  All right, best of luck next week.  
DAVID BEATY: Thanks a lot.  Appreciate it.   
 Q.  I couldn't tell on the final play if Montell fumbled the snap or if that counts as a spike?  
DAVID BEATY: Honestly, I was a little bit confused too.  I wasn't sure if he had it and lifted it to be honest with you.  It all happened pretty fast.  It looked to me like as he was going up it kind of came out of his hands, but I really don't know.  I'd have to watch the tape.  It is what it is.   
 Q.  And then his knee hit the ground when he was picking it up, was that considered the down?  
DAVID BEATY: Well, I mean, it wasn't fourth down, was it?   
 Q.  No.  
DAVID BEATY: It was first down, I believe.  So, I mean, it would have been second down.  The thing that, I think I'll tell you this, I've got to do a much better job of doing a better job coaching those guys.  That's a situation that honestly we put them in that previous situation quite a bit of how to down the football.  We talk about that, those type of things not being a big deal until they're a big deal.   
Well, that came to fruition today, but you know where Coach Beaty let them down?  What if you fumble it and you need to get back on it and get it done again and you don't get up there fast enough?  So this one goes on me, not on those kids.  I didn't have them prepared to get it done right.  So that's a situation you don't think about it very much, but I promise you I'll be thinking about it moving forward.  I've got to get better for those guys than I was today.   
 Q.  Have you talked to Montell much yet?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, and what I told him was hey, listen, we wouldn't have been in that game without you, bro'.  I tell you what.  I was proud of that guy coming back, being resilient.  He turned the ball over twice, he fumbled one, turned into a touchdown.  He threw an interception that turned into some points for those guys.   
We put our defense in a bad spot a couple times early, and boy they answered the bell pretty quickly there and left us in the game, which was good.  But he came back.  I was proud of him because he got hurt, got the wind knocked out of him pretty good and he came back and continued to help us move the ball down the field with his arm, which is something I'm not sure we knew he could consistently do going into it.  But he did a nice job of it today as he finished up.   
 Q.  Was it emotions or tactics or a combination that enabled you to come out in the third quarter so strong?  
DAVID BEATY: We knew going in at halftime there were some things that obviously you get a half's worth of information on a team, and they came out and did some of the same things.  So we kind of had some answers to the test, so to speak.  And so we got into some situations where he knew where he could get the ball out quick.  I think he was confident because he knew what he was seeing, which helped him a lot.  That, and then I think our guys started playing with a heck of a lot more tempo.  When when we started utilizing tempo and going fast and getting lined up at the rate that we want to, then we were pretty decent today at times.  When we weren't using that tempo, we gave them the advantage back.   
They were stemming, moving, it was kind of hard to see what they were doing.  They were doing what all smart teams do.  But when we started utilizing that tempo, it helped us a little bit, and I think we got a little better in that regard today.   
 Q.  When it was 31-7, do you have to put blinders on and to not worry about where you are?  
DAVID BEATY: I tell you this, the thing that I was most encouraged by was although there wasn't a lot of rah-rah going on the sideline, I didn't see deflated kids over there.  And that is a huge -- that's a huge shout out to our staff for that.  I thought they did a really nice job over there.   
One of our guys is not a coach.  It's Troy (Indiscernible), that dude is wringing wet right now because he worked his tail off up-and-down that sideline making sure they stayed in it.  You know, one of the things that I'm -- you know what?  The game went the way it went, but for us, we wanted to know how they were going to fight when they got in an adverse situation.  We happened to get in that adverse situation pretty quick.   
The great thing is we've been talking to them about the good thing about what we do, we can score fast.  We're really never out of a game.  We're really never out of a game.  We don't even need timeouts.  I'm listening to Rob on that last drive, Coach Likens, and I said, hey, listen, how much time do you need?  He said, give me 14, 15 seconds, I'll get you there.   
So there's guys that believe they know how to get them where they need to get them.  So that was a positive.  The negative, obviously, is that we didn't finish the job, and we've got to learn how to do that around here.   
 Q.  You talked this week about (Indiscernible) on offense.  There were a lot of fourth downs.  (Indiscernible).  Are you pretty much set in stone with what you're going to do in situations?  
DAVID BEATY: I think that's always a fluid deal.  I don't care if you've been coaching one year or 40 years.  It has to do with flow of the game and what you feel like you've got as far as answers to what they're doing defensively.  We felt good about our fourth downs.  I think we were pretty decent on fourth down today.  We had some decent calls against them.  And even the one right before the half we felt good about the call.  We were just a hair's breath from being able to go in with the touchdown there.   
So we really felt good about it.  Like I told you, we are a team that when we get into situations like that, we are going to attack you.  So they rolled up in man, they were basically four across in man and we did what we said we were going to do, which we go after you, and we did that today.  It didn't work out.  But we're going to keep working it to where it can.   
 Q.  How hard did you think about the (Indiscernible)?  
DAVID BEATY: Pretty hard, because it was a little further away than a normal fourth down.  I think we were three and a half, four or something like that.  You know, I was thinking about it, but we were a little bit a ways away.  I wasn't sure that we didn't need that momentum going in to halftime, because our guys were believing and they wanted to go.  I could see it in their eyes, but that's on me.  That's on me.   
Do I wish I had it back now?  Absolutely.  Rear view mirror you look back at it and you're like you'd love that opportunity.  But I'd like that opportunity that just happened at the very end here too.  But you don't get to guess like that.   
But I think our kids liked the fact that we were aggressive, I think, today on those downs.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) to come in there at the tail end, at the very end.  
DAVID BEATY: Oh, yeah, whether it would have been May day or just a regular run on, with the clock being killed, we were going to be fine.  We would have had a full complement, particularly, well, we wouldn't have had to completely May day, it would have been dead.  So we would have been in pretty good shape and given our kicker a little time to lined up.   
Man, would have loved for that to happen.  It would have been a lot of fun still being playing right now or just being finished.  Would have loved to see how that played out.   
 Q.  Beyond being able to score quickly, do you think your best (Indiscernible) tired them out and was that a factor coming in?  
DAVID BEATY: No doubt.  No doubt.  There is still a lot that we as coaches saw today that we've got to get a lot better at with regard to that.  I mean, utilizing the tempo is something you've got to do, but you've got to use it.  If they're standing up, you need to snap the ball while they're standing up, and we weren't able to get it done quickly enough.  But to Montell's credit, he did a great job of managing it throughout that time, and I wanted him to be sure about what he was seeing.   
 Q.  Schadler showed a lot of great things, great focus and vision.  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, going into the game, we knew he was a talented guy.  The one thing I wasn't really quite sure of was his top-end speed.  But he showed some things today that I thought were pretty good.  We're going to continue working with him on trying to just keep them shoulders squared and get going and trust his speed a little bit more.  But he's a talented guy.  I thought De'Andre Mann played really well.  That guy played really good while he was in there.   
Ryan Schadler went in and played at running back a little bit.  We used a lot of guys today.  We were in and out, in and out, in and out on both sides of the ball, which was somewhat by design.  But there were some guys I'm not sure we thought were going to get in the game that actually got in there and were able to contribute.  Whether they touched the ball or not, they contributed in the role that they played.   
 Q.  Did you get Schadler more work than you anticipated it or was that about what you thought?  
DAVID BEATY: Honestly, I don't know if I know the answer to that.   
 Q.  27 carries.  
DAVID BEATY: We feel like he's go to touch it.  I'm not sure we're not going to put a number on it, but we feel he has to touch it because he's a talented guy.   
 Q.  Bringing Ryan Willis into the game following Montell's injury, was that already a situation that if the situation presented itself that he would be the guy?  
DAVID BEATY: Yes, this week at least.  He's still going to have to continue to earn it.  Him and De'Andre were both kind of neck and neck, and we got to a point where we thought Montell was ready to go, and right at the last second he wasn't, and Ryan just like he prepared for was ready to go in.   
Man, I would have loved to have seen him step up and make those throws and get those completions in there.  Because he made the right reads, he's just got to be able to put them in.  He's a talented guy, and I think that was really good for him.  I think he'll learn a lot from it.  He's such a talented guy, I was kind of shocked that those balls didn't get into the receiver's hands a little bit better.  But he'll get better from it, from this, no doubt.   
 Q.  What exactly (Indiscernible)?  
DAVID BEATY: He's actually a lot faster than you think he is.  I'm not saying that he's maybe the biggest breakaway speed guy, but man he's a crafty receiver.  It's hard to get your hands on him at the line of scrimmage.  He does a great job catching the ball away from his body.  He's a big man who does a great job receiving the ball away from his body.  That touchdown catch in the corner down there was phenomenal.   
I mean, to get his feet down, I mean, Brandon Stewart was right underneath him, and Brandon had a battle on his hands all day.  That kid's a really good player.  I was telling Coach before the game, I said, man, that dude, he can play just about anywhere.  He's a really talented kid, really talented kid.   
 Q.  Do you think the team did a good job adjusting to him?  
DAVID BEATY: I thought we did better.  I thought we did better.  Some of that goes to Coach Bowen and those guys.  I thought we did some things to be able to give him a little help over there.  But the other thing is they're running the ball well too, so when you try to too high at teams like that, they're good to pour the run right down your throat.   
So there are things that you have to give and take.  I thought Clint and those guys did a good job of figuring out how to disguise and stem so they could get them in a conflict instead of us being in a conflict.   
 Q.  Besides the four quarters of football and the loss, what kind of step was this for this program today?  
DAVID BEATY: Well, I think it's obviously unbelievably disappointing right now.  That was a very tough locker room to look into for my first day as a head football coach in Division 1 football.  Those kids, they battled, and I'm really proud of them for that.  They kept fighting, and that's been something that we've been stressing from the day we got here.  And we got put in an adverse situation to a very good football team.  Perception aside, they are really a good football team, and our guys came back, and I was proud of them for that.   
But you know what?  We also did a lot of things that we talk about all the time that we did not do.  We did not take care of.  Being the smartest team in the country, we weren't that today.  We've got to get better at that and that's me and my coaches' job.   
 Q.  Talk about momentum and the turnover margin?  
DAVID BEATY: We turned it over twice and we didn't get any.  We've got to get some turnovers.  We've got to create turnovers and we weren't able to do that.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) do you guys feel like you did that?  
DAVID BEATY: Some of it will be me watching the tape.  But couple of guys that stood out to me, I thought really the receiving corps.  There were a lot of receivers that played today, lot of guys got their hands on the football, and a lot of them had catches.  Tre' I thought played really well.  Bobby played pretty well until he got knocked out of there.  Steven Sims did some decent things.  Josh did some decent things.  We were trying to get him matched up a couple times.   
They did a good job rolling coverage and we had a couple of plays called to try to get him vertical, but those guys did well.  I was proud of Montell for coming back.  He faced some major adversity early, early in that football game, and he really did not let it affect him.  He continued to move forward and I was proud of him for that.  He did a good job.   
One of the groups that I'm really proud of is our O-line.  I'll be honest with you, in spring that group struggled pretty badly.  So the fact that they're getting better, that gives me some hope moving forward that we've got a chance to get a little bit better even than that.  So Zach Yenser and those guys have done a really good job with them.   
 Q.  Were the circumstances of Josh getting catches or touches or is there something going on?  
DAVID BEATY: Well, circumstances, but here's the deal.  We don't just say this, we do it.  You're only as good as your next play and your next day.  He didn't do anything wrong.  Bobby beat him out.  He beat him out that day.  Now Josh may beat him out tomorrow, which is one reason we did not publish a depth chart.  There were some changes there all the way up until the end which I think helped us, and our kids know that we mean business about competing every day.   
 Q.  The film is going to be maybe not a lot of fun for those guys to watch.  (Indiscernible)?  
DAVID BEATY: Yeah, that will be something, I think, that we'll be able to build on, being able to build on some plays like that.  But the thing that we're most disappointed in is that we didn't get an opportunity at the end to be able to see what would have happened there.  I think everybody in the stands at least on our side, would have loved to have seen what happened there.  But we've got to earn that, and we didn't earn it by taking care of the details, and at the very end of the game, I've got to do a better job of coaching them than that.   
 Q.  How impressed were you working with Ryan Schadler today, and did you expect him to be the special teams player he was today?  
DAVID BEATY: Very impressed but not surprised.  The guy has been like that since the day we got here.  He's a sprinter, he can run.  I knew when he got the in the open field I was like there is no way that guy's going to tackle him, and he broke away and took off.  I think that's good.  That really energized our team.  That was a big deal.   
We talked about it right before we went out.  I said, look, if they kick it over here to Shad, which they're going to sky it because they knew the other kid was fast, and if they do, we're going to crease them.  Just give him a crease and he'll be gone, and he took off.  Gary did a great job of designing that return.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) you guys busted through with about two minutes left.  Did you consider on-side kicking or what was the thought process?  
DAVID BEATY: We initially I was going to go ahead and on-side kick it.  The problem for me there was that if we did not get that thing, the game was completely over for sure.  I mean, in our minds.  And I looked down to Clint and said, can you stop him?  And he said, yes, and we're going to kick then, and I'm going to burn both timeouts.  And I turned to Rob and said, how much time do you need?  He said, just give me whatever you got and we'll get it down there.   
So as soon as those guys gave me the go ahead that they felt good about it, Clint said, look, we'll get it done.  Just kick it down there and we'll get it done.  Because we knew Wyman was going to kick it out of the end zone.  So that gave us a good idea of what would happen.  Now the face mask, the great thing about the face mask was it happened on that first run really early and the kid went down fast.  So it didn't hurt you as bad as it could, but it hurt you.  It hurt you.   
But they kept playing.  Our guys kept playing.  Those dudes threw the ball on second down.  We were able to break it up, and then they threw it on third down which helped us.  Made a great return on the fourth down.   
So I would love to have seen what would have happened if we gave Wyman a chance.  That guy's got a great leg, it would have been great to see it.   
 Q.  Your first game, did you have any jitters?  How much sleep did you get last night?  
DAVID BEATY: I slept great.  I hate to say it, and I don't hate to say it, I'm not a nervous guy by nature.  I think, I mean, I'm not into that.  I'm a big believer in you get them prepared and what you prepared them for, they will do well.  What you haven't done well at preparing them for, that's your fault.  You didn't get them prepared well enough.  Today, unfortunately I didn't get them prepared well enough to win the game.   
We did just good enough to stay close, and we didn't do good enough to win the game.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT