FRYS.COM OPEN
October 9, 2014
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well done, a couple 2s on the card, birdies at 7 and 11.   Those are always nice to see a 2 like that.   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, I mean, a good day.   Obviously after some time off you never know quite what to expect.   It was a little chilly this morning, but I managed to get off to a pretty good start.   2‑under through three without hitting a green is always nice.   
   
 Q.   Yeah, after that birdie at the 11th hole, you go ahead and hole out a bunker shot at 12.   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah.   Like I say, I didn't hit a green through three holes and I was 2‑under par, so that's always a nice way to get things going.  
   
 Q.   How did you find the golf course the first time around the track?  
TIM CLARK:   It's a great golf course.   I mean, it's going to reward good play, and if you struggle you're going to see that in the scores, too.   Tough driving course.   For me I feel like there's some really narrow holes out there.   I just think overall it's a great golf course.  
   
 Q.   If it's narrow for you, it is really narrow for everyone else because you don't miss many fairways.   Just 25 putts in this opening round.   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, like I say, I missed a lot of greens, but a lot of them were just on fringes.   I kept myself sort of around the hole.   That's what you do, if you miss the fairway you can at least chase it up around the front of the green.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel sharp coming in starting the season?  
TIM CLARK:   My game was pretty good.   It's felt pretty good, but obviously suddenly getting used to this cold weather, the body takes a little time to adjust to that, but yeah, my game has been good.   
   
 Q.   3‑under par to get things going here at the Frys.com Open.   How pleased are you with the first round of the new season?  
TIM CLARK:   Pretty pleased.   Coming from Arizona, I wasn't quite used to the cold mornings here, so to get off to a good start was nice.   I managed to miss the first three greens and play them 2‑under par, which seldom happens, so that was nice.  
   
 Q.   Been about a month or so since we lost saw you on TOUR.   What have you done and how have you kept your game sharp to be able to put up a good one today?  
TIM CLARK:   Well, I didn't do much, really.   It was a welcome break, so we took some time off and started to hit some balls last week and played a round of golf, and luckily nothing felt like it was missing.   I came here obviously hoping for good things, and this is just a great golf course.   
   
 Q.   This golf course, how does it suit your game?  
TIM CLARK:   Well, I'm finding it kind of narrow, so I can only imagine what the other guys are feeling.   I missed fairways today, but you're still able to chase the ball up, and I got it around the greens when I had to do that.   Unfortunately I didn't manage to birdie a par‑5, but they're tough.   I don't think they're that reachable for the guys.   Really it is about positioning your ball out here, which is going to suit me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT