CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
September 30, 2005
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Tim Clark after a second round 69 at the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro.  Tim, 9 under through two rounds, in good shape for the weekend.  Talk a little about today's round.
TIM CLARK:  Well, today obviously playing first off, 7:30, is pretty early.  It was quite cold this morning.  First few holes, was even tough to read the greens.  The sun hadn't come out yet.  Certainly the course played a lot tougher, played a lot longer for us.  You know, it was certainly a lot tougher to score today than it was yesterday.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about the difficulty of going from that warm weather afternoon to a very cold, chilly morning.  Do you have to make some adjustments in your game?
TIM CLARK:  Yeah, sure.  You know, you don't feel your swing quite as well.  So really I just had to try and play within myself and not hit the drives I hit yesterday.  I was able to hit some really good tee shots on the par 5s.  Today, I kind of had to accept that I would sort of not really be able to reach a couple of them, sort of hold back.

All in all, still happy with 3 under.
TODD BUDNICK:  Par 5s, key to your round today.  Birdied three of the four.  Talk about those holes.
TIM CLARK:  Yeah, I've just been really playing some great pitch shots into the par 5s.  Today, like I say, I didn't get to all of them.  Yeah, for me, I think it's crucial on this course to take advantage of those par 5s because there's a lot of tough par 4s and quite a few tough par 3s where par is a good score.

In order to score good, you're going to have to be able to birdie those par 5s this week.
TODD BUDNICK:  Questions.
Q.  You tee it off early one day every week, but how difficult is that to be the first guy off?  Does it make it a stroke harder, half a stroke harder?
TIM CLARK:  I don't know about that.  But for me it's pretty tough because I'm not a morning person.  A 5:30 wake up is pretty early.  It is tough to get going.  Like anyone, it doesn't feel great in the morning.

But, yeah, like I say, I still managed to birdie a few holes going out.  Again, it was the par 5s.  Really the way the course is playing now, there's some real tough holes out there.  16's pretty tough.  I bogeyed that again today.  You know, on the back, that 17th hole, that par 3 is playing pretty tough today, too.  8th hole.
Q.  Can you talk about 16, specifically what's making it tough?
TIM CLARK:  Well, first of all, it's a tough driving hole.  But I've actually managed to hit in the fairway there twice.  Today I 3 putted.  Again, it's just a tough hole location for a hole that's that long.

But I think once you miss that fairway, you're going to be in some serious trouble.
Q.  When you've been in one of the final groups on the weekend, how do you think you've handled that in the past?
TIM CLARK:  Yeah, pretty good really.  I mean, I enjoy being there in the final group.  I find that's when my game gets a little bit sharper.  I get a bit more focused.  So for me it's normally these first two days I have a tough time getting started.  Obviously, I got off to a good start this week.  So, yeah, I'm looking forward to the weekend.
Q.  From what you said earlier, you must like not having to get up early.
TIM CLARK:  Exactly.  I'll be at least awake and warmed up tomorrow by the time I tee off.
TODD BUDNICK:  Can we go over your round.
TIM CLARK:  13, first birdie.  Again, I think everyone can get home there.  Everyone has to hit the tee shot in the same spot, come across.  I was actually able to hit it on the green about 35 feet behind the hole, which is today quite a tough 2 putt.  Managed to 2 putt there, which was quite nice.

15 was a bonus today.  I drove it in the rough, really had to just pitch out.  Yesterday I could get to the green.  Today I hit 7 iron in there.  Hit 7 iron to about 12 feet, made the putt.

16 was bad today.  7 iron in there.  My ball actually pitched about three feet from the hole, but ran on a little bit to about 20 feet.  I 3 putted there.

1, just a driver, sand wedge to about two feet.  No, sorry.  I made about a 15 footer on the 1st hole.

2, I got it around the green again and chipped up to about probably five or six feet.

6 was a bogey.  Drove it in the rough there.  Came up short of the green.  Had putter in my hand.  Again, I was off the green, but putted it up to about eight feet, missed the par.

Then 7, my tee shot hit the cart path down the right, which is kind of a good break because it gave me a great angle into the flag.  The flag is tucked in left there.  I hit a 70 yard shot to, you know, two feet.
Q.  I noticed the little beard working.  Is that the superstitious thing?
TIM CLARK:  No.  After last week, having to look so smart in a coat and tie all week, I'm a bit tired of that.  Just letting it go (smiling).
Q.  Do you change anything when you have such an early tee time?
TIM CLARK:  Well, I guess today, I mean, you couldn't get    normally I get to the range about 45, 50 minutes before.  Today I think I got there 35 minutes before just because it was dark, not much point in going out that early.  That's the only thing that would change, is just how much time you spend on the range before you go out.
Q.  You talked to the TV guys about it being a great time to get your first win here in North Carolina.  How much do you think about getting that first win?  Do you think about it that much?
TIM CLARK:  To be honest, not really.  I've been able to win two times overseas this year.  You know, obviously I'm looking forward to my first win here.  But I kind of feel that it's going to happen at some stage.  Everything's going to fall into place somewhere along the line, and I'll get that win.

But I just don't think you can put too much pressure on yourself, otherwise it could start to affect your game.  I feel like I've been doing the right things and my game's been getting better and better.  I just haven't quite had that week where it's all fallen into place.
Q.  Playing last week, didn't seem like you had pressure.  Did you have pressure?  Seems like you all had a really good time.
TIM CLARK:  Obviously, there is quite a bit of pressure.  Like I'm saying, it's about being in that final group.  I enjoy that, I really do.  For me out there, yeah, it is kind of fun.  Really every hole, every shot is important.  That's what happens when you're in that final group on Sunday.

Obviously, for us last week, after we lost, like I say, the guys weren't overly disappointed.  We were very supportive of each other.  There was obviously not anyone to blame.  Obviously, the Americans outplayed us on Sunday.  We were still in good spirits.

I think the good golf I played last week has probably carried over this week and given me a little more confidence.
Q.  Hear anything from your Carolina fans, with the blue shirt?
TIM CLARK:  I wore it today because I knew there would be more out here on the weekend.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT