BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2005
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Tim, well played today.
TIM CLARK:  Yes, with the conditions like they are, certainly thought another 9 under would do it.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Thomas Levet did it last year, came from behind.
TIM CLARK:  Yes, and it's really generous off the fairways so if you start hitting some about iron shots, the greens are running pretty good.  You're able to make a lot of putts.
GORDON SIMPSON:  You said you liked coming here; a nice way to limber up for St. Andrews?
TIM CLARK:  Yeah, this is my fourth trip in a row.  Every year I seem to have had a good tournament.  It's a beautiful area and I enjoy coming to Scotland.  I enjoy the food and just a relaxed atmosphere.  Like I said, I just always seem to enjoy myself here.
Q.  How do you account for the low scoring?
TIM CLARK:  I think the course is a lot firmer than it's been before, so that's allowed the tee shots to get out there a little further, made some of the par 5s easier to reach, so I think that helps.  But I think the course definitely plays better with firmer fairways.  Like I say, you've probably never had three days of weather like this in your life.  Amazing we have had it this week.
Q.  Did your performance in the U.S. Open give your confidence a big lift?
TIM CLARK:  A big lift.  I wasn't playing particularly well going into that week, actually I felt like I was really struggling to find my swing and worked hard at the start of the week and found something.  I think that's what's most encouraging rather than the third place is that I wasn't playing well going into the weekend and was able to get coming out of it.

Obviously I'm looking forward to next week the St. Andrews because I've never played there.  I've always felt this is a great lead up to the British Open.
Q.  If the weather stays like this, will it take another low number to win?
TIM CLARK:  It probably it will.  Lucky for me, I got off to a good start the other day with birdies, and really the front nine is allowing you to attack.  That's where you're going to make most of the birdies.  So I really hope I do get off to a good start.  If not it's going to be a bit of a grind to get back in there.

You know, I probably will be tied for the lead or maybe one shot lead, so, you know, I don't have to get too crazy too soon.  It's going to be a long day, and like I said, this back nine is tough, and anyone who is going to play this back nine in a few under tomorrow is going to be in with a chance.
Q.  Inaudible?
TIM CLARK:  I think even 9 under still has a chance, just depends on the conditions.  16 , 17 under could still win the tournament.  At 9 under I could have a crack at it.  Certainly there's a bunch of guys at 13 , 14 , 12 under.
Q.  St. Andrews, have you been there?
TIM CLARK:  I've been there but haven't played the course, three or four years ago.  I just had wrist surgery about a month before I went there, so it was really just to come over to see my brother who was in Ireland and I have some friends in Scotland, so just went for a visit.
Q.  Inaudible?
TIM CLARK:  Well, you know, like I said, I've never seen St. Andrews and it's going to be different scoring.  U.S. Open just trying to make pars.  Last time Tiger won the British Open at St. Andrews, I think it was 18 or something under par.  Totally different scoring.  I feel like every part of my game is there, so regardless if the course is playing the way the scores, should be able to keep up.
Q.  Did you walk around it at all?
TIM CLARK:  No, I didn't walk around it at all.
Q.  Having watched fellow South Africans Ernie and Retief winning, and you've played with them quite a bit, does that give you confidence?
TIM CLARK:  I wouldn't say that.  I think obviously what they have done is very good and they are the players they are and I play my game.  They have a different game and I have different aspects that I need to do well.  It's really about getting confidence in myself.  Obviously the more good results I have like the U.S. Open and the PGA a few years ago, that helps my confidence.
Q.  Inaudible?
TIM CLARK:  No, I was pretty respectful for the course.   Went straight home.
Q.  Inaudible?
TIM CLARK:  Certainly on The European Tour, I think they have more South Africans on The European Tour than the U.S. Tour.  This is usually the route that the guys go.  I was fortunate enough to go to college in America, so that just seemed like the logical place to get started.

We certainly do have a lot of young players coming up through this tour, yeah, that people in the States don't know about yet, and it's just a matter of time before we see them in World Golf Championship events and majors contenting.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Tim, well played again and see if you can go lower tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT