JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2014
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You hit 14 fairways and 18 greens.   How good of a round was this here today?   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, especially coming off yesterday shooting 8‑under, it's tough to follow that up.   To go out and then do it in that fashion was nice.   I had a really frustrating Thursday and wasn't happy after that round being 3‑under and finishing 1‑over.   So to turn one like this feels great.  
   
 Q.   What did you find between Thursday's give back of a few and Friday and Saturday?   
TIM CLARK:   Nothing, really.   I was just so down on myself.   I guess I came out on Friday with an attitude of not going to lose and just start playing golf, stop getting in your own way, and I've done that.  
   
 Q.   You've done it two straight days.   How do you do it three?   
TIM CLARK:   I've just got to stay calm, stay confident.   It's still going to take another low score, so I guess that's kind of comforting.   Guys can come from nowhere out here, so you need to go out and stay aggressive, which I think will make it a little easier.  
   
 Q.   I was going to ask you about all those fairways and greens you missed today, but it would be a short interview if I did that.   A perfect ball striking round from the statistical side of things.   You did what you had to do out there today, really.   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, actually even on Thursday I hit the ball great and managed to shoot 1 over par, so it was really frustrating.   The game has felt good for a while.   Just I've been needing to get some putts together.   This week, not that I'm making a lot of bombs, but I'm not missing ones that I should make, so that's been really the difference.  
   
 Q.   You've managed the golf course so well, but on a day like today where you know you have to score, is it easy to stick with that game plan when you have ball in hand, or did you feel like you had to attack a little more out there?   
TIM CLARK:   If I can't get to the par‑5s, I've got to load up.   This week my wedges have been so good, it's almost been better for me.   I've hit my wedges in there close all week.   You don't really want to swing away from that, but you've got to hit fairways.   When you do that, you're going to have a lot of birdie chances.  
   
 Q.   You put yourself in a good position for a good round tomorrow.   What has this golf course shown you in terms of making those putts?   What's changed, I guess, in a 48‑hour span for you to take some confidence going into tomorrow?   
TIM CLARK:   Like I say, I think I was just trying too hard.   I finally just sort of let things happen.   It's kept me nice and relaxed up there and able to stay out of my own way, really.  
   
 Q.   They say this game's all about fairways and greens, and you hit every green today.   Pretty good round for you.   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, very happy with that.   I knew after yesterday's great round I had to keep it up, and it's normally not easy to do that.   But obviously I played an almost perfect round.  
   
 Q.   As you look back at this round, was it the early start?   Did you feel good from yesterday's momentum?   What was it?   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, and I didn't go out there pressing.   I was going to sort of let the birdies come when they did.   I think just the last few weeks or months I've been trying too hard and putting too much pressure on myself.   I did that again on Thursday, and then these last two days, I just said let's just play golf.  
   
 Q.   How much did the rain help?   You were able to throw some balls at pins?   
TIM CLARK:   I would rather it not have rained.   I like it when the fairways play firm, and they weren't all that soft today, so there was still a run which was good for me.   But, yeah, I'm sure that does help, but yesterday I shot that round without it being soft.   So I would like it to stay firm if it can.  
   
 Q.   What's it going to take tomorrow?   You're only a couple shots back right now.   
TIM CLARK:   This course can give up that 7, 8, 9‑under par round from anywhere.   So the leaders either have to play well or someone can come from way back.   So I just want to go out and keep doing what I've been doing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT