CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 24, 2014
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Anything special with those three birdies?   Anything click?   Three consecutive birdies got you to the lead here in a tournament you clearly like.   What is your feeling about that run and your position on the leaderboard? 
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, that luckily put me back in place.   I was fine the front side, birdied my first two holes.   But hit a ball in a tree I think it was 5, caught a tree and ricocheted out of bounds into the practice area, so double errors unfortunately.   So I guess I did well to fight my way back from there.

Q.   All told, how is this shaping up when you know you've got literally a dozen people within a few shots of the lead right now? 
TIM CLARK:   I think it makes it somewhat easier.   You can go out tomorrow and just sort of free wheel it and go for birdies.   There are going to be so many guys in the mix, you're just going to have to get out there and shoot as low as you can.   It's probably going to take a low round tomorrow to win this tournament.

Q.   What are the dangers of trying to go flag hunting here or being too aggressive at this golf course? 
TIM CLARK:   You can't really do that.   I mean, I'm going to stick to the same game plan, go at flags that I can.   Playing away from a flag still only leaves you ten feet.   It still leaves you a lot of birdie chances.   You've just got to make those putts.

Q.   On the last with the horn going, what is the mindset? 
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, obviously, I'm happy to be finished and not have to stick around.   I can go home and relax.   Just a couple unfortunate breaks.   That tee shot hit the tree there and that left me a long way out, but I was happy I could claw my way back to somewhere near the lead.

Q.   You got off to a fast start with birdies at 1 and 2 and a bogey at 3.   What happened at 5? 
TIM CLARK:   5, I hit it down the right, and felt like I had a shot that I could up in the bunker near the green.   It caught the right edge of the trees and ricochetted way left on to the practice range.   When I got up there I was told it was out of bounds.   So it wasn't even something that's in the radar.   I didn't even know it was out of bounds, for one, but it kicked pretty hard left and over a fence to get out of bounds.   So that was a little unlucky.

Q.   The battle back there on the backside, three in a row, that must have‑‑ when you're looking at the leaderboard, no one's getting away from you. 
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, we knew that the whole time.   We said to each other, look, no one's running away.   If I could just make a few birdies, for some reason I've played those holes really well these few days.   So I'd been hitting the ball good all day, and finally I started to see the lines there on those three holes, and then made the putts.

Q.   You've had a couple of runner‑up finishes here.   You like this golf course.   It suits your game.   What is it about Colonial that just keeps this field so bunched up that no one's running away?   It seems no done can lift the lid on this golf course. 
TIM CLARK:   It's such a great golf course.   Unfortunately, until we play a course like this twice a year, maybe.   So for a guy like me, I relish coming here.   I love it.   I wish they'd take note of what a golf course looks like and what it does to a tournament.   It keeps everyone in there, long hitters to short hitters.   We go to these courses that are 76,000 yards long and the fairways are a hundred yards wide, there are going to be five guys in the tournament.   I just love coming here.   It inspires me to play good golf.

Q.   It's going to be pretty bunched up however it finishes.   What is your mindset tomorrow? 
TIM CLARK:   Well, with that many guys there, this course, when someone plays great, they can shoot that 7‑under par round.   So tomorrow's going to be about really staying aggressive and making birdies, because you're going to have to go out and win this tournament.

Q.   Three birdies in a row on the back nine gets you up there. 
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, it was a battle.   I made double early in my round.   Unfortunately, the ball went out of bounds, hit the tree, but I knew I was right there if I could make a few birdies, get myself close.   There are so many guys bunched up there.   I continue to play well, I really felt like I played pretty consistent for three rounds.

Q.   You finished runner‑up here twice.   What's it going to take tomorrow to finally get over that hump? 
TIM CLARK:   Beat the next guy.   The guy that comes second, I need to beat him by one.   That will do the trick, I think.

Q.   This is bunched up leaderboard though? 
TIM CLARK:   I think it's going to take a low score tomorrow.   We haven't seen any of those low scores yet, but the caliber of player out here, someone gets hot, they're going to shoot 6 or 7 under.   There were a couple good rounds today.   So I think all those guys in the lead are going to shoot a 5, 6, 7 under and win the tournament.   It's not going to be lost.   Someone's going to have to get out to win this one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT