THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 10, 2013
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Watching the monitor intently, Tim Clark, five back beginning this final round, a Sunday 62.   How good was this effort you put up here today?  
TIM CLARK:   Well, being five back I had to go out and shoot a good score, and this was one of the calmest days we've obviously had, so many felt accessible.   And obviously when you're playing good on a golf course like this you can shoot those sort of scores.   Obviously a golf course that suits my game, and unfortunately this is the first year I've been able to come play here, but I really enjoyed it.  
   
 Q.   Heading into the range do you think 13‑under is going to be enough for a little more golf?  
TIM CLARK:   No, probably not.   But obviously you've gotta stay prepared.   You know, you never know.  
You know, Briny's been playing great and it will be nice to see him get a win.  
   
 Q.   What a fantastic round.   A 62 to close.   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah.   I mean I did what I had to do.   Just a little slip‑up there in the middle of the round.   I don't even know the number of that hole but it got me yesterday with 14.   I doubled it yesterday and got in trouble there again today.   
So obviously very pleased with the way I played, though.   I haven't played this sort of golf in quite a long time, you know, really since the injury, so this is now‑‑ I'm starting to feel like my game might be back to where it was, you know, three years ago.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, the thing that was the most impressive to me despite the score was obviously just the distance control and the accuracy in your iron play today.   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah.   That's been one thing that I've struggled with, you know.   My whole game has normally been based on that and the last couple of years it just hasn't been that sharp, and really these last few weeks I found something in my golf swing and I've really started to hit it a lot better.   So that's very encouraging for going forward.  
   
 Q.   Three birdies to close for 13, do you think that's enough?  
TIM CLARK:   Probably not.   And you know, it would be nice to see Briny‑‑ obviously I want to have a chance to win it.   It would be nice to get in a playoff, but I've been in his shoes.   It took me a long time to get my first win, and he's just coming off a pretty long layoff from injury, so I certainly wouldn't be upset if he won the tournament.  
   
 Q.   So happy for you.   Well played, man.   
TIM CLARK:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT