THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tough out there today, how did you play today?
TIM CLARK:  I played good.  Unfortunately my score didn't
reflect quite how well I played.  A couple of the greens I didn't
judge the speeds right, especially the front nine.  I think I
three-putted three times and quite a few times from just off the
green, didn't get it up and down.  Overall I'm pleased with how
I'm playing.  So if I can just start judging the green speeds a
little bit better, I'll be fine.
Q.  The guys seemed to complain about the conditions.
TIM CLARK:  It is what it is.  We know it's dry.  We know
it's firm.  The mainly tricky parts, I guess a couple of the pin
placements were on hills and with the greens dying out like they
are, you cannot even putt it close.  There were times all three of
us had 15, 20 feet and we all hit it 6 to 8 feet past the hole.
Anytime it can get a little bit unfair.  But certainly
tee-to-green and all that, we know what to expect.  And we know
it's going to be tough, but that's what makes this championship
fun.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIM CLARK:  Just bring a lot of Kleenex for the tears and
that about it really.
Q.  Emotionally you're geared up for The Open --
TIM CLARK:  This is kind of what you hope for on this
championship.  You don't want it to be raining.  So at the end of
the day I think the course is set up great.  This is one of the
better courses we'll play in this rotation.  It really is a fair
golf course.  You hit it down the fairway, it's going to stay in
the fairway, you're not going to get any crazy bounces.
But the par-3s are tough.  For the style of game I play,
you can't pitch it short on quite a few of the par-3s, and landing
it on, I can't keep them on the green.  That for me is the
challenge here right now.
Q.  Is patience the key, you have to bide your time?
TIM CLARK:  Yeah, that's just with any Major, really.
When guys aren't going super low, that's what it's all about.  I
was facing one situation today where I was in a trap and had to
take my medicine and get it out.  You have to assess where you're
at.  But you certainly can't get in one of these pot bunkers and
try and get too aggressive.  Just take your medicine, move on.
It's a long week, and pars are still going to be good scores at
the end of the day.
Q.  Any change to your approach?
TIM CLARK:  Just putt better, hopefully.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT