SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2015
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tim, nice start.   If we can get some comments on your round.   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, good.   I hit the ball great last week, so I was looking forward to coming here this week, and I hit the ball good today.   I do feel like I left a few shots out there, didn't birdie the par‑5s, being able to reach, but obviously the game is very solid.  
   
 Q.   Seems like this is a course where as long as you're healthy, it really kind of fits you.   Is that how you feel?  
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, obviously there's a premium here on hitting it straight.   I hit a lot of drivers around this course, and like I said, hitting like how I am again this week, I have a lot of birdie opportunities, so it really is a course that I enjoy.  
   
 Q.   There weren't too many low numbers in the afternoon.   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, there was some wind, but we've had a lot worse.   I'm sure the morning was pretty calm, maybe a little bit easier for the guys.   But I gave myself a lot of chances.   Obviously happy I'm playing tomorrow morning and I can post one of those low numbers like the guys did today.  
   
 Q.   Two years ago you came really close and last year you had the injury.   How are you feeling health‑wise right now?  
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, I feel pretty good.   I feel pretty good.   There's good and bad weeks, but right now I'm feeling really good.   I'm certainly excited about this week.  
   
 Q.   Any birdie that stands out today?   
TIM CLARK:   I just made some‑‑ like I say, I didn't birdie the par‑5s.   I birdied quite a few of the par‑4s.   A lot of good tee shots to put me in position, a lot of solid iron shots.   Birdieing a hole like 16 is not an easy hole.   You can make bogey there pretty quick.   So that's probably one place I picked up a shot.  
   
 Q.   Was it 5 or 6, a pretty good lengthy putt?  
TIM CLARK:   6, yeah.   But unfortunately like on 2, I missed about a three‑footer, so that's one of those things.   You miss a short one and you make a long one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT