TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2012
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good to be back in the hunt, feeling the juices going again?
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, a little bit, but when you finish like that, you feel like what's the point.   I mean I guess it has been a year and a half since I've really been in that sort of position.   But yeah, I'm just disappointed in myself really.

Q.   You shook yourself off on the putt on 17.   You got over it and then you got back and you said okay.   What did you think?
TIM CLARK:   I pretty much knew I was going to miss it, to be honest with you.   Again, you put yourself in position like this to win a tournament and to finish like that, having not missed a shot all day really.   I mean I played great.   So I feel like I could have walked away with a win.   I was trying not to think about that while I was out there, but obviously somehow it snuck in the back of the head and got the better of me.

Q.   Great playing otherwise though.   Good luck to you down the road. 
TIM CLARK:   Thank you.

Q.   You just keep getting healthier and better it seems week by week.   Is that accurate?
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, certainly the game has been coming around and I felt like there was a chance I could get myself in contention sometime.   So every week does feel better.   The body is starting to feel better, yeah.

Q.   So what do you take away from this?   Is it a combination of disappointment that you didn't get it done or is it excitement and enthusiasm because you came close?
TIM CLARK:   I'm obviously very excited that health wise I'm back.   But mentally I'm obviously a long way away from where I need to be.   I couldn't be more disappointed right now.   I played great all day.   Hit the ball great.   When it came down to the end I couldn't get myself to make any putts.   So it was a bit disappointing to let it get the better of me.

Q.   First of all, how was the last four holes playing?   It seems like a lot of guys around that water were putting it into that water.   How were the last four playing today?
TIM CLARK:   I guess they're tough.   I obviously managed myself tee to green, I did the hard part right, and once I got there, I couldn't finish it off.
You know, actually there's a little bit of wind out there.   You hit solid chances you had chances for birdies.

Q.   You had a great chance for eagle at 13.   What happened there?   The putt just kept going and going?
TIM CLARK:   Yeah.   It was right on the edge there and I didn't want to leave it short for sure.   I didn't feel like I hit that bad of a putt.   Really few feet by the hole and it was going off the green, so not too disappointed by that.

Q.   Is it tough to get right back in focus after something like that?
TIM CLARK:   I mean that didn't turn me off too badly.   I still was in the tournament.   Still had to finish strong, but obviously 17, that's like taking a bullet to the head.

Q.   Tim, how aware were you in terms of your position on the leaderboard?   How much did you sort of look at that coming in?
TIM CLARK:   I mean I was aware, but you know, at the end of the day I figured, you know, you gotta get to 14 or 15.   But I was trying not to think of score there.   I was just trying to get up and play each shot.   I know when I think score that's when I start to struggle around the greens, and as hard as I tried today, I guess I still couldn't do it.

Q.   At any point did you feel like you lost a rhythm?
TIM CLARK:   Really just that putt on 17.   That was about it.   Until then I was pretty good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT