MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about playing and how you're feeling?  
TIM CLARK:   I'm feeling all right.   I mean, it's slowly getting better.   Obviously I've struggled.   I mean, I feel like every day I come out and play, if I am finding something new, something different that I haven't been doing.   So I'm slowly finding my swing and my game again.   
Obviously quite pleased with today to shoot one over.   It's my best round by about five shots this year.   Things are getting a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   What happened in Bay Hill?   
TIM CLARK:   It was just a bit ‑‑ I mean, I didn't check my card.   I mean, I shot six or seven over.   I should have checked it.   I wanted to play ‑‑ I wanted to play the second round because I needed rounds.   
But what happened is I called the penalty on myself on the 17th hole and that took some time, so I just kind of changed that to a double, signed the card, and in the end it was another hole scored wrong.  
   
 Q.   So you were one ‑‑ you signed for one lower?  
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, on another hole.  
   
 Q.   Talk about today.   I mean, you haven't played a lot.   It's not an easy golf course today.   Playing this golf course today?   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, I mean obviously coming here is going to bring the best out of you.   You know, I mean maybe it's that little bit of added excitement, got the body feeling a bit better.   Today is the first time I actually hit some decent shots and able to make some good putts this year.   So it's probably just a product of being here the Masters really.  
   
 Q.   What about the condition of the course, how soft it is?  
TIM CLARK:   It is pretty soft.   I mean, it's playing long, obviously.   You know, I'm hitting some long clubs again but a few years have gone by where I had to come in with hybrids and woods and whatnot.   Overall, the greens are fairly receptive.   I mean, really pretty soft for here.   Couple of holes even spinning it, I almost got the water on 15 and I wasn't expecting that.   That hole is going to play pretty tough for the guys that lay it up.   
For the most part, the course is in great shape and the greens are ‑‑ you know, being first off is absolutely perfect.   
   
 Q.   In the time you've been here, has it ever been this quick before?  
TIM CLARK:   Absolutely.  
   
 Q.   What year, do you remember?  
TIM CLARK:   Like what year?   
   
 Q.   How about '07 when Zack won?   
TIM CLARK:   No.   That year got pretty firm on the weekend, you know.   That was ‑‑ the year I came second, that was pretty weird.   That was soft, really tough.   
   
 Q.   Does it bring, open it up for more plays?  
TIM CLARK:   No.   I think it needs to be firmer to be ‑‑ I mean, when it's softer it is going to take longer whore for sure.   The only one good thing is when it is soft the greens are hopefully soft too then we can ‑‑ still drop the ball on.   If it's fairly wet and the greens are hard then we've got no chance.   Playing now is okay, but obviously if it was firmer it will be difficult for everyone.  
   
 Q.   We were talking to Nicklaus this morning, he thought length wasn't really an issue here.   Now it kind of helps a lot of people but you think the other way?   
TIM CLARK:   I mean, a lot of holes.   Think of 6, I'm coming in with a 5‑iron or a 4‑iron and someone else has got a wedge, I think he's got a slight advantage.   
   
 Q.   What did 1 play today?  
TIM CLARK:   I hit a hybrid, a three iron.   The guy has got a 9‑iron and he's looking at the flag.   I'm just trying to hit the green.  
   
 Q.   What will you do for a schedule from now on?  
TIM CLARK:   I'm going to try to play a normal schedule.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT