THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Are you thinking it's tendonitis?  
 TIM CLARK: Well, it is tendonitis. I've had it for three months, so I know it's there.  
  
  Q. Did you just tweak it or did it act up?  
 TIM CLARK: It's just been getting a little worse as the day went on. I hit a shot out of the rough on 9, and I could feel it getting worse. There's just no point in staying. I tried as good as I can for two days.   
 Yeah, at the moment it's starting to get a little worse. I can see it's swollen right now, and there's no point.  
  
  Q. Is it one of those deals where it's burning more one day than the other?  
 TIM CLARK: Well, this is really the first time I've tried it out since Augusta, so it's a long time. It's been getting better for sure over the last couple weeks, but I had to test it out, see where I was, and it's not good enough to go right now. I do feel like it's still going to progress and get better, so I'm hoping to be back obviously as soon as possible.  
  
  Q. Is it fair to say if it wasn't THE PLAYERS Championship and you weren't defending you probably wouldn't have played this week?  
 TIM CLARK: Yeah. There's no way I would have played.  
  
  Q. This makes your decision for next week pretty easy?  
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, I was entered for next week and hoping to try and play, but if I can't finish two rounds here, how am I going to finish two there? But I'm going to go to Fort Worth and continue treatment with the guys. I'm just going to stay on top of it. I can't get too despondent and down on myself. It has been getting better, which is a good sign, so I'm going to try and stay positive and keep working at it.  
  
  Q. What are you doing for treatment?  
 TIM CLARK: A lot of stuff. I mean, it's just sort of working the tissue, traction on the neck, trying to free up some nerves that are trapped, and just general stuff. After two months the body starts to shut down, so it's just about getting everything back into shape.   
 Last night after I played and this morning it was aching. When I went to the range, I didn't feel it, but as the round got going, I could start to feel it again.  
  
  Q. Can they treat it with cortisone?  
 TIM CLARK: I had a cortisone a few months ago, and it didn't help, so I'm not going to do those anymore. I've heard some pretty bad stories with that. I'm going to stick to treatment now, and like I said, if I keep the rest like I have been, hopefully it comes right. If I'm not right in a couple months, then I need to look at something else.  
  
  Q. Have the doctors told you that you might hurt it by playing this week?  
 TIM CLARK: No, no, they feel like I won't do any damage, but right now it feels like it's a little worse than it was coming into the week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT