SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 16, 2011
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Tim Clark into the interview room. Tremendous playing today, 6-under par 64, just a little bit short this week. Comment on what was a fabulous week. 
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, certainly coming into today I was playing nicely but certainly wasn't in the mix and didn't feel like I had my best. But today was always going to be a tough day, 36 holes. If you could get out and play somewhat consistent you could move up the leaderboard. I guess this afternoon turned out to be a pretty good round looking back at the other scores. But it was all just sort of steady golf and in the end had a chance.
 JOHN BUSH: A great finish there, three birdies on your last four holes. Take us through that stretch and then we'll open it up to questions. 
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, I mean, I feel like finishing on the front nine, I felt like the front played tougher all week, for me anyway, to score. So I wasn't expecting a whole lot of birdies there. But made a nice birdie on 15 out of the trees and then great shot on 16, almost made that. It was short of a 1 right there. 
 And then just had a chance on 17 to really get in the mix and unfortunately pulled the putt a little bit, and 18 had a chance. Pleased with the way I played, that's all. 

 Q. What did you do best out there today? 
 TIM CLARK: I think my iron play all week was probably the best. You know, controlling my irons and -- if I had to pick one thing, that was probably it. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TIM CLARK: 6 was a 7-iron. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TIM CLARK: I had some blisters today, so I knew I was in there for a long day today. When you're out there playing and you get moving, you don't feel it. It's more when I stopped and have to start is when I feel it. But it didn't really affect me out there at all in terms of how I played or bothering me. It was fine.

 Q. How about the 36 holes? 
 TIM CLARK: I actually was kind of looking forward to it because I was in a position where I was a long way back of the leaders so I had to make up some ground. So for me 36 holes was going to be good, and funnily enough at the South African Open we played actually 34 holes on Sunday, so I've done it in the last month literally. 
 In terms of the physical aspect it wasn't going to be that tough obviously, just not sure about the blisters.
 JOHN BUSH: You haven't had a lot of time to think about it yet, but after winning last year and now another runner-up, I think this is your ninth runner-up finish in your career, but with the win last year does that take away a little bit of the sting? 
 TIM CLARK: Sure, and again, I was coming from behind, and always had a lot of work to do today to win the tournament, and Mark always had it in his control and he was able to finish it off. 
 Funnily enough they don't sting that much unless you've really done something bad to lose the tournament. I'm happy about the week, again, particularly how I played. I didn't feel like I played my best golf and I've come second, so I'm really excited about what I can do here in the next few weeks, if I can improve on the little things that I need to. 

 Q. Were you watching the leaderboard? 
 TIM CLARK: I knew Mark was at 15 the whole time I was on the back nine, but there were a bunch of guys -- I thought more guys would make a bit of a push, particularly since I thought the back nine played easier. Yeah, once I started making a few birdies, then you sort of realize, hey, if I can birdie 17 or eagle 18 I'd have a chance. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TIM CLARK: I didn't see it all happen, but yeah, once he's got a one-shot lead coming into 18, if he just -- it's a pretty easy hole to par, so you figure that's it, yeah. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TIM CLARK: Oh, I actually played nine holes on the Monday there, yeah, with three different groups. I played three holes with different groups.

 Q. A lot of Hawaiian golf. 
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, I had a good time here in Hawai'i. Unfortunately we have to leave tonight, but it's always a great way to spend the first two weeks of the year. 

 Q. Waialae is a bit of a shorter course, and the names on the leaderboard aren't really the bombers. Do you find that refreshing? 
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, absolutely. I think that everyone that comes here enjoys playing this golf course because it does test everything and you have to hit it straight. It's definitely a nice way to start the year and see how the game is. I certainly come here feeling like I have a chance to win or to play well on this golf course. 
 Yeah, these are the kind of weeks that I have to come out and play because the course does suit me.

 Q. There are a lot of doglegs left out there. 
 TIM CLARK: I guess there's some doglegs here but that's what makes the course interesting and fun. It's certainly not going to favor one style of play. I was hitting a lot of draws this week and actually found myself in the left rough a lot, and it's tough to play from this rough. Yeah, but like I said, it's a great way to start the year for us, a bit of target golf, some precision, and next week is a similar type of deal at the Hope. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT