RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2010
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: After a long wet day, we appreciate you coming in and talking about your round. You shot a 1-under 69, you're in the hunt going into the final round. Your thoughts.
 TIM CLARK: Yeah. It was obviously a tough day with it raining on and off and getting wet and struggling to get into a rhythm. 
 But I still had chances to make birdies the last few holes and get myself right back in there and just didn't make any putts, and then that three-putt doesn't help. I'm a little bit back, but the way I'm playing I think I've still got another round in me.
 DOUG MILNE: Can you talk a little bit about your finish? 
 TIM CLARK: Well, just -- I just didn't make any putts really. I managed to make a birdie there on 16, or 15 at least was really one of the only putts I made all day, and then just that two-putt on 18 just wasn't good.
 DOUG MILNE: We'll take some questions. 

 Q. How tough was it out there at the height of the rainstorm?
 TIM CLARK: A couple of holes it got pretty thick. You know, it got thicker around about the fourth and fifth holes, I think it was, maybe 6 or 7. Then it died down and then it came back right around the 11th, 12th hole. So it was tough. 
 I lost a couple of drives right when it got really strong. Almost scared to release the club, and missed a few fairways right and made my first bogey there on 7 because I of a missed fairway. 
 So it was tough, but I think it was more tough just staying in rhythm. You're always fiddling trying to dry the club. You just can't get in a good rhythm, and I think that's the toughest thing. And you know, Dean obviously handled it really well. He played solid. Even through all the tough rain, he was able to hit good shots.

 Q. Is there a different strategy for tomorrow when you're chasing?
 TIM CLARK: I guess so. You know, I played the way I wanted to play today. I just didn't make the putts. And I'm not going to change anything tomorrow. I just need to keep playing the same. 
 Unfortunately today we couldn't get to all those par-5s that we were getting earlier on in the week, so that changed our scores a little bit, but no, I'm just going to have to go out tomorrow and be aggressive and try and apply some pressure.

 Q. Tim, you mentioned that you had to hit a couple of extra hybrids maybe today that you wouldn't have had earlier in the week. Then you mentioned a moment ago you couldn't get to some of the par-5s. As one of the shorter, or not longer guys on TOUR, will that be an issue possibly tomorrow with the rains we had today?
 TIM CLARK: It will probably be a little wet. Well, yeah. It's probably going to stay wet. Hopefully it dries up a little bit, but Dean, who's leading the tournament, is probably the same length off the tee as me. And I think all the guys on the leaderboard are guys who hit it straight, which is great to see. This is a golf course that rewards the ball in the fairway, so it's been a joy to be here. 

 Q. You talked before the tournament that you were to see the course for the first time on Wednesday, and I think your quote was if it's a good traditional golf course, then we'll be fine. Has it lived up to what you expected it to do despite all the rain and the wet?
 TIM CLARK: Yeah. Like I said, it's a great golf course. Would have loved to have seen no rain and see it play firm. I think it would have made for some excitement, although it's still an exciting tournament right now. 
 But yeah, I'd loved to have seen it really firm and really fast. I think it would've been tougher to keep balls in the fairway for sure. And it certainly would have played a lot tougher than it has been. The scores have been low, but the guys have been playing good golf to shoot scores. Had it been firmer, it certainly would have been a lot tougher. 
 DOUG MILNE: Thank you, Tim. We appreciate your time.
 TIM CLARK: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT