RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2010
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURY LIVSEY: We welcome Tim Clark into the interview room. Pretty stout playing first two days here at the Canadian Open, 64, 66. Can you talk a bit about your first two days? 
 TIM CLARK: I think I certainly didn't expect to be scoring on this course. I thought in the Pro Am, I felt like it was going to be pretty tough. 
 But you know, I've been hitting the driver really well. My golf swing came back actually after Wednesday, and I've been able to play well. And driving the fairway I think is a huge key on this golf course. I've done that and been able to stay out of trouble.
 LAURY LIVSEY: I think we have a few questions here. Go ahead. 

 Q. After you won THE PLAYERS, you were worried we'd never have anything to talk to you about, but you've managed to find a way to give us that. Does it feel different having been a winner now?
 TIM CLARK: Not really. You know, I think I may get out there this weekend with a little more confidence than I had before, but I certainly don't feel different. Maybe when I get out there under pressure, I will start to feel different. 
 But yeah, it's been -- I haven't played that great since THE PLAYERS. I did play well at John Deere my last few rounds. And the game's been in good shape, and I'm just sort of waiting to get on a golf course that suits my game.

 Q. When you look at a lot of guys that are around you on the leaderboard, a number of them haven't had as much success as you've had. Do you think that's an advantage heading into the weekend?
 TIM CLARK: No, not really. I'm sure everyone in the field has been in the fairways. You can expect those guys, some of them to go low and carry on into the weekend. So I still need to keep doing what I'm doing, and I'm sure there's going to be more men creeping up on that leaderboard after tomorrow. 

 Q. Do you feel as a South African somehow slated to win this weekend? You guys have been on a roll this year in your country generally. 
 TIM CLARK: Not really, but obviously, you know, it's been great for us to see what happened last week with Louis winning, and obviously it's life changing for anyone. 
 And but no, you know, when I'm out here, it's me on my own unfortunately. No one's helping me get it in the hole. So I certainly don't feel any added pressure there, but like I say, when you get to a golf course that you enjoy and really suits your eye, it can be positive golf. 

 Q. We talk about Canadians not winning the Canadian Open. South Africa has produced a ton of really good golf talents. Do you have any insight as to why such a bulge of good players?
 TIM CLARK: From South Africa? Well, I think the main reason is South Africa has great weather all year around. In the winter you can still put on your shorts and T-shirt and go out and play golf. I'd like to see guys do that here in Canada. 
 So I think that's a big part of it. When you're playing golf 365 days a year as a junior player, you're going to get to some pins. So that's just the biggest thing, and then the junior programs are very good. You get to play junior tournaments from as young of age as you want to. So I think that's a big help.

 Q. On one ShotLink I noticed you made a long first putt on 17 after driving it in the rough. Do you feel like you're stealing one when you get a birdie there?
 TIM CLARK: Yeah. I mean, like I say, I hadn't missed too many fairways, and that was one of the few ones that I actually hit in the thick spot, and drove it in that to get on the green. And any time you're driving in the rough, you're pretty much just trying to make par. So you're right. It's sort of like stealing a shot there.

 Q. You sort of alluded to it earlier, but when you arrived here this week (indiscernible)?
 TIM CLARK: It's the tougher conditions that probably make you a little better. Certainly don't think it's going to continue that way. I think the scores are going to slowly even out, and 10-under may be a good score come the end of the week. Just depends what the weather does. If it stays pretty soft, I think they'll continue to shoot some decent scores.
 LAURY LIVSEY: Anybody else? Okay. We appreciate your time. Thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT