THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2010
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TIM CLARK: Obviously, got off to a nice start. The front nine was really good. 5-under the front nine and was feeling great, then stumbled a little bit pretty much on 9, 10, 11. Just sort of lost it there for a second and was able to regroup after that because it certainly is a tough finish here. And I seem to have got back into my comfort level there the last six, seven holes.  
  
  Q. Was it anything in particular that you lost it with? Did you lose it off the tee?  
 TIM CLARK: It was the minute I saw Dottie Pepper come out, I think. But then she came back at the end and it was okay (laughter).  
 It was a couple of loose shots. Coming up short on 9 that threw me off a little bit and then just a bad shot on 10. Other than that, there were really only two bad shots I hit, the tee shot on 10 and my second on 11.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about No. 6, which club you hit there.   
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, I drove it in the right rough. I haven't hit that fairway all week and kind of behind the tree. I've been struggling with fliers. If I hit it in the rough here I'm really struggling to get on the green. Lucky I had wedge in my hand there, and I was able to play something high and land it on the green. And, obviously, we didn't see it going because it was down in the swale, but I pretty much landed it where I needed to to get it down there.  
  
  Q. What are these guys contending with in the afternoon? Did conditions change as you went along?  
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, the wind is swirling, a couple holes the wind is tough to judge, particularly the par-3s I think it's really tough to get a club. And I think 13 is playing extremely tough, for me anyway.   
 But, yeah, the wind is swirling. The greens haven't firmed up too much, so the greens are still receptive enough. But definitely tough conditions.  
  
  Q. Is this the worst flier week on TOUR this year?  
 TIM CLARK: So far. I think any time you get to Bermudagrass the ball will fly a lot more. Out on the West Coast when you've got that overseed it's okay; you can get away with it. But I'm certainly struggling with it.  
  
  Q. Doral and PGA National I guess it wasn't that much of an issue?  
 TIM CLARK: Doral is bad, too. For a guy like me I'm getting a lot of fliers. I'm watching guys on TV and wondering how they're stopping it because I certainly can't.  
  
  Q. If someone had said you're going to be 11-under on Saturday but you're still going to have two guys ahead of you and two guys tied, would you have been surprised at that?  
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, the first two days we had no wind so the guys were going to score. The guys are that good. If there's no wind they're going to take it lower. Obviously we've been lucky that the greens have been somewhat receptive, but again, it's still a tough course. Tee to green it's one of the more demanding ones that we play.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT