THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2010
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. No wind, but smooth greens, right?   
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, lucky to get out there in those sort of conditions, but seems to be calm right now, too, but maybe it will stay that way all day. I'm sure there are still a few good scores out there.  
  
  Q. Was the pin placement on 14 borderline unfair with the slope starting behind the cup and just a few couple of paces behind the cup?   
 TIM CLARK: I didn't think so, no.  
  
  Q. Okay, it was all right. Was that a new pin that they had there?   
 TIM CLARK: No, I think they've used that before quite a bit.  
  
  Q. Get what you hoped for out of the round?   
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, I played good. I hit a lot of fairways. I mean, it's tough to get a close on a lot of these holes. I felt like I had a lot of 20-footers all day. Didn't make everything I looked at.   
 Obviously, very pleased with that round, the way I scored the round. It wasn't scrappy. I played pretty good.  
  
  Q. Was this a course that you felt like you had one of these in you? Do you feel like it suits a lot of what you can do?  
 TIM CLARK: I don't know. I do enjoy the golf course. I think it presents a lot of challenges. And certainly challenges you off the tee to hit it straight. They've got it set up really good. With the rough now you're going to get fliers if you're in the rough, so certainly makes you think.   
 But I've always had a tough time on the weekends here when the greens got really firm. That made it kind of tough for a guy like me. So right now the greens were soft today and I was able to score.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about going off very first? First group of the day and there's not as much action going on.   
 TIM CLARK: It's a bit early to get up 5:00, drive 20 minutes and try to tee it up. You're obviously going to get the best of the greens. They were just perfect throughout the front nine. Really what they've done with these greens now, they hold up. Years gone by, the greens got spiked up pretty bad. But these hold up pretty good. Obviously, they're especially smooth first thing in the morning.  
  
  Q. Where are you staying? How far away?   
 TIM CLARK: About ten miles.  
  
  Q. North or south?   
 TIM CLARK: South, so no traffic. Certainly not at 5:00 in the morning, anyway.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT