BOB HOPE CLASSIC
January 24, 2010
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   TIM CLARK: This is obviously tougher of the four courses. Happy to get out of here without a bogey. I played good. I think I hit probably every fairway. I don't remember missing any fairway anyway. And then from there, you can, if you hit greens, give yourself some chances for birdies. I was able to do that. 
 I didn't play the par-5s great. At least I was able to birdie one of them on the back nine there. But I think it's just been my driving.

 Q. How is the putting going today?
 TIM CLARK: Obviously good. I made a bunch of birdies, you would think I'm putting great. So, yeah, obviously I'm making putts I need to make. You still feel like you're leaving a few out there, but I'm sure everyone is. Making as many birdies as I am, I'm probably putting pretty good.

 Q. Can you describe where your confidence is right now, depending upon your round today on the toughest course today, and you're going to a course where you shot 9-under a couple days ago?
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, but it's all different. Each day changes. Obviously, I'm feeling good about my game. Obviously, I got to go out there tomorrow and try to stay in the same frame of mind. It's not about trying to ride the wave. I've just gone out there every day and tried to placed as good of a score as I can. And I think tomorrow is going to be the same.

 Q. One shot off the lead, a bunched leader board. What is it about tomorrow? Is it about patience?
 TIM CLARK: We all know guys can shoot really low around there, and it probably makes it easier knowing that you got to make a lot of birdies. And it's probably going to be guys playing aggressive, I guess.

 Q. How comfortable do you feel on that Palmer Course?
 TIM CLARK: Obviously good. Obviously, 9-under, again, if you are hitting the fairway, you can give yourself a lot of birdie chances to really -- out there it comes down to making putts. That's going to make the difference tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT