FRYS.COM OPEN
October 24, 2009
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Looking to be in a good position going to tomorrow.
 TIM CLARK: Yes. Last few days I played good. Got rid of the (indiscernible) that were there the first day, which was nice. 
 Moved up the leaderboard today, which, yes, I mean, you know, I felt like I played well. Thought there might still be a few other names up there, so I'm in good shape.

 Q. Some of your good play carry you over from the Presidents Cup?
 TIM CLARK: A little bit. I played last week, but I didn't play great last week. I was pretty tired last week. 
 But, yeah, obviously the swing there from the Presidents Cup and I seem to be rolling the ball good.

 Q. Are you still looking for your first PGA Tour victory? You live here in Scottsdale. What would that mean to you?
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, it would be nice to do it here. I guess this is the last (indiscernible) but my last chance. But here would be great. Obviously it's nice to be staying at home, and that keeps it nice and relaxed while we're out here.

 Q. Well played. Good luck tomorrow. 
 TIM CLARK: Thank you.

 Q. Best chance to win this year was at Colonial, correct?
 TIM CLARK: Uh-huh.

 Q. Can you kind of run that history back for me? If you want to. 
 TIM CLARK: You know, I had a chance with (indiscernible), the last two in the tournament. Hit it in the trees there and I didn't get it up-and-down, and I had a ten-foot (indiscernible); didn't do that. 
 Then I hit the flag on the next hole, which pretty much cost me, so... 

 Q. Did hit the flag and didn't get a good bounce, basically?
 TIM CLARK: Yeah. I mean, it doesn't hit the flag I've probably got four feet for birdie, so... 

 Q. Is that the best chance you've had to win a tournament on the tour so far?
 TIM CLARK: No, probably not. There's been others. I'm obviously not gonna go over them now with you, but there's been a few.

 Q. Is three shots a lot to make up on this golf course?
 TIM CLARK: No, not at all. I mean, this course, if you start to struggle, you can shoot over par easy. And obviously playing great, like Troy has just done last days, you can shoot 9-under. So three shots is nothing.

 Q. Good round on Saturday. Right in the mix. Your thoughts with 18 holes left to go.
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, obviously I got myself right back in it. Troy has played some great golf the last few days. If he hits it better it's gonna be tough to catch him.
 Yeah, I'm staying at home this week, so it's nice and relaxed. 

 Q. Your thoughts on the day? What went well?
 TIM CLARK: Again, I kept it in the fairway. I haven't missed too many fairways. Today I think was the day I hit the least fairways, and I missed probable three or four today. No bogeys today was huge. You know, there are birdies out there. 

 Q. Good week for you a few weeks back at Harding Park. Still riding that crest a little bit?
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, a little bit. Sort of wore myself out last week playing in Vegas. 
 But, you know, I feel fresh again, and the golf swing seems to be there just like it was in Harding Park. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT