WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 8, 2014
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is it a similar story to these first two days, despite the change in the weather here?  
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, obviously a little colder today.   Again just with the ball going nowhere, course played really long again.   But same sort of game plan.   Just trying to keep it out of trouble, and again, made a few birdies.   So very pleased.  
   
 Q.   Does that make you all the more chuffed with your resilience and your ability to battle around here?   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, I think so.   I think that's what it takes.   You can get frustrated if you're not playing well but I managed to keep it in play for the most part so I have not been scrambling quite as much as maybe some of the other guys.   Like I said, pleased to be in this position going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   A tough course and presumably when it's been cold and damp, it's even tougher?  
TIM CLARK:   For sure, it's played long all week but today it played particularly long with this sort of cold wind.   But again, it's a fair golf course.   If you keep it in play, you're still going to have a chance.  
   
 Q.   Are you a leaderboard watcher?   
TIM CLARK:   Not particularly.   We are quite well back of Graeme, so it's all about trying to move up the leaderboard as much as you can and I guess now within three shots, depending what he does on the last, that's within shouting distance.  
   
 Q.   And certainly that does mean if you're producing the same sort of score tomorrow, you'll be there or thereabouts hanging in there?  
TIM CLARK:   For sure.   It would be nice to have one of those low rounds.   I haven't had one yet this week.   If it was to come on Sunday, that would be great.     
   
 Q.   Do you feel it's in there?   
TIM CLARK:   Definitely.   Just a few less mistakes and a few more putts, and you have a 6‑, 7‑under par round.   
   
 Q.   Presumably you're good at drawing on past experience enough, playing at the top end of leaderboards?   
TIM CLARK:   Yeah, but tomorrow, it looks kind of bunched in the position that I'm in, so it will be an interesting day tomorrow I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT