WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2009
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Winning today obviously was a pretty good victory, and now you've got to face the guy who's No. 1. What's your feeling going into tomorrow?   
 TIM CLARK: Well, obviously I've played him here a couple of years ago. I sort of know what to expect, the buzz and the media and all the people and the noise. I'm looking forward to it.   
 I played pretty solid today, and I'll just bring my own game.   
  
  Q. How did it go today, and what are you looking forward to tomorrow?   
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, I mean, what can I say? I'm just really happy to play. We'll see what happens, really. I played him a couple of years ago, so I know what to expect, and I'll just go out and sort of worry about my own game, really.  
  
  Q. How do you think it'll be different than two years ago? He was just a really good player a couple years ago, and now he's apparently second to God according to the way the gallery is reacting. You know what I'm saying? There's so much more hype this week.   
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, that's true. He's just getting back into it, coming back after an eight-month layoff. I've been playing pretty good golf here this year already, but obviously I'm not afraid of the match. I'm just going to come out and give it my best shot, and if I lose, it's no big deal, and if I win, great. I'm not going to put any pressure on myself.   
  
  Q. I know you were paying attention only to Goose when things started, but when the draw came out, did you notice -- was it hard to ignore that if you won you might get him in the second round?   
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, I saw that, and I saw who I had first round and Tiger second round. It took a lot of pressure off of today. I live up in Scottsdale, so I'm prepared to get in my car and go home whenever I need to.   
  
  Q. Do they have greens like this in Scottsdale?   
 TIM CLARK: No, not really.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT