WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2008
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tim, I know that the bogey on 18 wasn't exactly what you were hoping for but, boy, you gave yourself a lot of opportunities out there, struck the ball beautifully and played very, very well. Your assessment.
 TIM CLARK: Obviously I'm enjoying playing the golf course. Nice if you play good you can make some birdies, not like the last few weeks for us. It sets up good for my irons. 
 Like you say I hit a lot of good shots and gave myself a lot of chances. It could have always been a better round. I keep doing that everyday I'll be fine.

 Q. Had a little encouragement, your coach and a few others. That's got to be nice to see.
 TIM CLARK: It's good to be back in North Carolina as always. I can get my fixing of Bojangles and obviously I have a lot of friends watching. I'm obviously looking forward to the rest of the week.

 Q. You hadn't made the bogey you would have nipped your buddy, Carl Pettersson today.
 TIM CLARK: I saw that. We'll have a good go at each other this week.

 Q. Talk about this golf course and elements that are required to play well here. 
 TIM CLARK: You still need to drive it good. Every time I missed a fairway I had to pitch out a couple times and lucky was able to save par, and then it's iron shots. 
 The greens are nice and receptive but you really have to be precise where you're landing. Quite a few falloffs. Like I said, I hit my irons good today. It seemed easy. If you're struggling with your game, it won't be that easy.

 Q. You come to the 11th, you drive it in the rough, you lay up and really how big was this par save to maintain your momentum right there?
 TIM CLARK: Very big. I just seemed to miss fairways when I needed to hit them on the longer holes today. That's what you've got to do on this course. To make that save was big and obviously to make a 2 on the next is quite a bonus with the long par 3.

 Q. Well, a strong day today. You've got to feel good even though you lose one on the last hole.
 TIM CLARK: Tim still happy with the round. I knew it was going to be a tough finishing hole. Very happy with 6-under. I'm right in it. I'm enjoying this golf course.

 Q. Talk a little bit what you felt like was going right for you today as far as your game.
 TIM CLARK: Well, I just hit good iron shots. I left myself a lot of chances for birdies. Left a few out there on the back-9 but as long as I keep giving myself those chances for the rest of week I'll do good.

 Q. 6-under, one off the lead. You got to feel pretty good. 
 TIM CLARK: It's going to continue to take low scoring. The lead doesn't mean a whole lot right now. You're going to have to keep making birdies and keep getting it deep in the red.

 Q. This course, the way it sets up, the front-9 plays a little bit easier than the back-9. Did you find it that way?
 TIM CLARK: Maybe a little bit. I actually had a lot of chances on the back. Like I say, you're going to have to get out -- if you can shoot 2, 3-under every time you play each 9, you're going to be keeping up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT