JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2008
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Not a bad round today. You're back in the hunt ready for Sunday. 
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, you know, a bit of a slow start. I wasn't feeling very well at the start of the week. I started to feel better with my body, and I needed a good round today to get back into it. I figured the guys would continue to score low, and at least now I'm within a couple of shots. Hopefully I won't get too far behind by the end of the day.

 Q. What was it about today's round where you knew you had it working?
 TIM CLARK: I don't know. I just made a lot of birdies. Unfortunately I didn't birdie any of the par-5s, which kind of kept me back from having a really good round. But just played solid. I've been hitting a lot of fairways and giving myself chances.

 Q. Are you in good shape for tomorrow?
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, I think so. It all depends what the leaders do, but hopefully I won't be too far back. Another round like that and you never know.

 Q. Talk about your birdie on 18 coming in. 
 TIM CLARK: What about it? 

 Q. Just finishing a round like that going into tomorrow, with a shot like that?
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, that helped. I played 17 really badly from 80 yards in. But 18 is a tough hole. It always gets the nerves going to finish on that hole, especially where that flag is on the left today. That birdie was a bit of a bonus. I was just playing for par but hit a great shot in and made a great putt. 

 Q. You've been here before as far as being in the hunt on Sunday. What can you use from last year going into tomorrow?
 TIM CLARK: Well, again, it just depends how far back I get. The guys still have a quite a few holes to play, and there's a lot of birdies out there, so as long as I'm not too far back, I'm in the hunt. 
 But once again, a round like that today, you shoot 6-, 7-under tomorrow, it will take care of itself.

 Q. You had a real nice putt on 18, too, kind of a sigh of relief once that dropped?
 TIM CLARK: Yeah, it always feels good to finish a round like that, and it certainly gets you excited to come back out tomorrow.

 Q. What will the nerves be like coming out tomorrow?
 TIM CLARK: Well, like I said, I'm probably about five shots back of the lead, so if I'm nervous, I'd better take up a different sport. 

 Q. Back on 9 you rolled in a real long one?
 TIM CLARK: A bunker shot, yeah. I holed two bunker shots today, which again, really helps. When I made a mistake I was able to take a birdie out of it. A little bit of fortune in those two shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT