THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 14, 2007
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Obviously great round yesterday.  Seems like it's pretty easy conditions today, 1-under.  Are you happy with that? 
 TIM CLARK:  You know, not really.  I played decent.  I didn't play as well as I did yesterday, but today I wasn't able to get it in the hole as quickly as I did yesterday.  Yeah, I didn't make any longish putts and also didn't hit it close to any tap-in birdies.  A bit of a tough day, but still happy with 1-under.  I'm going to lose a few places, but still feel like I'm playing decent. 

 Q.  With scoring going the way it is heading into the weekend, does 1-under keep you in it? 
 TIM CLARK:  For second place, sure.  I mean, it looks like that's what we're playing for right now.  You know, second place will be around 16-under and that's what I've got to aim it. 

 Q.  Paddy said a couple minutes ago he wouldn't be surprised if someone broke 60 out here.  That's before we saw Tiger turn at 28.  Is that reasonable? 
 TIM CLARK:  No.  He's 7-under right now, I guess, but that back nine is not that easy.  I wouldn't put it past him, but I still don't see it out there. 

 Q.  Is it weird to have this tournament -- we're not really used to seeing a lot of birdies in years past, to see numbers like this? 
 TIM CLARK:  Yeah, it is.  With the greens being this receptive you're pretty much going at every flag, and if you do short side yourself you're able to get it up-and-down.  In the past if you short side yourself you're not going to get it up-and-down, you're dead.  There's going to be guys not only making a lot of birdies but when they do miss the green getting it up-and-down a lot easier. 

 Q.  About this time last year you were ready to hang it up for the season.  Are you surprised you're sitting here in the TOUR Championship after that? 
 TIM CLARK:  Absolutely.  In the offseason I didn't play any golf.  When I came out at the start of the season I was really struggling.  I've started to feel a little bit better.  We kind of know what's wrong.  It looks like I had a pinched nerve for a long time.  I've still actually got to get it sorted out in the next few weeks.  I felt good getting into a rhythm of playing more golf, confidence-wise, but I'm surprised with the little bit of golf I've played and the amount of practice I've done, I've played well. 

 Q.  How much confidence does that give you that knowing even injured you can play this well to get into the Top 30? 
 TIM CLARK:  I just hope it doesn't make me lazy.  I might come out next year healthy and not do anything.  It feels good.  I think it's also a case of maybe in the past playing too much.  I think now maybe I will cut back my schedule a little bit and concentrate on quality rather than quantity and just playing a bunch of tournaments. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT