CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 4, 2006
Tim Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  Alright.  We thank Tim Clark for joining us here for the 2006 Chrysler Classic of Greensboro.

Tim, you've played here a couple times, T 6 last year in 2005 and, of course, a fan favorite being an NC Stater.

Talk about coming back here this week.
TIM CLARK:  It's nice to be back in North Carolina, see lot of old friends from college days.

I certainly I enjoy this golf course a lot.  I enjoy the tournament and yeah, I think the course sets up good for my game anyway.

It's one of the tournaments I kind of look forward to every year.
TODD BUDNICK:  You just had a chance to play in the Pro Am.  Talk about what the course is like this year conditionwise.
TIM CLARK:  The course looks very good.  I always like the way that it plays, Bermuda grass in the fairways and it's not always in perfect condition but I think that's what makes it good.

You get a lot of different lies, lot of different shots required.  So it certainly is a fun course to play.
TODD BUDNICK:  Looks like looking at your records you maybe took some time off or did you have an injury?
TIM CLARK:  Well, I've had a bit of a injury since the British Open and I kind of went Overseas for the last four weeks to play in the World Match Play and the Am Ex last week.

I haven't played over here as a result of that.  I've been striking with a bit of a neck injury and it just kind of has affected my play a little bit.  I haven't played quite like I like to.
TODD BUDNICK:  Okay.  We'll take some questions.

Q    What attracted you to NC State?
TIM CLARK:  Another South African kid at NC State and his father spoke to the coach.  I was back in South Africa sort of playing amateur golf and I guess that's how it really got started.  They contacted me and I guess a few months after being contacted I got on a plane and came over.
TODD BUDNICK:  Alright.  29th on the money list.  Obviously four weeks left to play, Tour Championship on your mind.

You made your first one last year.  Talk a little about your goals heading down the rest of the way.
TIM CLARK:  Yeah.  I guess I'm kind of running out of time.  I'm playing this week obviously hoping for a good week here.  I got two more weeks to do it.

I probably need a Top 5 just to be certain because the numbers obviously affect me but it's obviously something I really want to do, I'd like to go back to the Tour Championship and maybe I'll take care of it this week.
TODD BUDNICK:  You're a guy still looking for his first victory.  You've been one of the top players out here.  We've had 12 first time winners.  J.D. Trahan won last week.

How special would it be for you to win in a state where you went to college and have that opportunity?
TIM CLARK:  It would be great to win here.  Obviously, I have a lot of support and kind of be like going back in time when I won the amateur event in Greensboro.  I would certainly love it to happen here but I also will take it anywhere.
TODD BUDNICK:  Alright.

Q    Do you keep up with NC State, how they're doing in football, basketball?
TIM CLARK:  When they play well I do.  I do speak English.  But, no, certainly I try and keep up with what's going on.

It's always fun to catch the game on TV when it is on and I think I'm going to go Thursday night to watch them play Florida State so, you know, hopefully things go well.
TODD BUDNICK:  Any other questions for Tim?

Q    Wouldn't mind being introduced to the crowd as the leader of the Greensboro Chrysler Classic?
TIM CLARK:  That would be after one day but it would be good but I think I'll just hang back there.
TODD BUDNICK:  Alright.  Thank you, Tim.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT