VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 28, 2019
Kalija Lipscomb
Riley Neal
Elijah McAllister
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Vanderbilt - 24 - NIU - 18
Q. Elijah, you get the touchdown last week, you get two sacks today, but do you see that as your role in this defense, not necessarily to pile up a lot of tackles but to make a very impactful plays?
ELIJAH MCALLISTER: My role on this defense is however coach see it's. I just do as he tells me to do and I try to go out and make the most of my reps.
Q. What is this little battle celebration you guys were doing?
ELIJAH MCALLISTER: It's just kind of similar to like a praying celebration. Everything I do is through God, so it's kind of similar to like a little prayer kind of thing. I do it, it calms me down. Everybody is always excited about their sack and I'm just trying to calm everyone down and get ready for the next play.
Q. When you went through the transfer process did you even look at Vandy's schedule and say, hey, there's one of teams I would have been playing anyway?
RILEY NEAL: I'm sure I did at some point, I couldn't tell you exactly when. And it didn't really play a factor at all, but it was cool.
Q. Do you get the irony of finally beating them?
DEREK MASON: Yeah, I would be lying to you if I told you that didn't feel good.
Q. Kalija, coach said that Ke'Shawn had a child last night he comes out and gets 130 yards or whatever. What do you think about that 24-hour period that he went through there?
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: It's a big night and a big day. It's great. Congratulations to Ke'Shawn. He's going to be a great father. He's a great football player.
Q. Kalija, walk us through the flee flicker start to finish.
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: Start to finish? I lined up, went in motion. No, I mean, coach did a great job of getting us the call. Schemed it up and we were able -- and Riley put it on the money. It was just a race to the end zone from there. It was a great call.
Q. On that play I guess the deep guys doubled, which is not really what you want when you're running a trick play. How much were you confident that there would be somebody else and what happens?
RILEY NEAL: We're talking the flee flicker still? Yeah, it was, that's kind of how we scripted it, depending upon the coverage what we thought would be there and with the look we got that's kind of what we anticipated, so it worked out well.
Q. How do you feel that you're coming along in this offense, how different a quarterback are you today and how much more comfortable are you than your first outing?
RILEY NEAL: I think I'm definitely more comfortable. I think every practice, every game, every film session you grow a little bit more each time and just got to look to keep doing that all throughout the season.
Q. Elijah, how important was it to get pressure early to get the Bowers and do the things that you were doing in the first half?
ELIJAH MCALLISTER: I feel like for any defense we always talk about rushing coverage working together. So if the defensive line and outside linebackers can get home it allows the coverage to work and to stay on their keys and stay on their men and it allows for defense to play well and get off the field on third down.
Q. Riley, the first two drives they looked or you guys looked really good moving down the field. What did you see from them and was there something really that they changed? I know Coach Mason talked about penalties and things that hurt you guys, but what did you see on the field from them defensively after the first two scores?
RILEY NEAL: I think we just got our playmakers the ball and they made people miss and our line blocked well for that run for Keyon and he hit the hole. They tightened up like on the speed and space a little bit, us throwing it out there, and so that might have been the change for them, but I thought we blocked really well up front and our guys made plays.
Q. Kalija, a lot of preseason is about the big three and we're all kind of counting y'all's touches in the game. You had seven catches and Ke'Shawn had 17 carries. Pink had one catch. Should we monitor, does that matter that much that all three guys are getting catches? Does that make a difference in a win?
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: Jared Pinkney is an awesome playmaker I think Coach Mason addressed that already. I think going forward everybody's going to get their proper amount of touches.
Q. Kalija, do you see more comfort and composure from this quarterback than you did the first game?
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: Yes, sir.
Q. Can you tell me about what looks different to you or feels different to you with him?
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: He's growing, he's getting better every day. You can see it in just when he's lining up behind center and in his drop and in his delivery.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT