OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE PRO-AM
February 17, 2007
Bill Murray
Scott Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Just thought I would have you guys in.  Obviously played well in the Pro-Am, you're ahead by either two or three, we're trying to get a clarification.  Maybe just some general thoughts about the day. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  My partner played magnificent today.  I think it's the best I've ever seen you play from tee-to-green.  I mean, putted pretty well.  But from tee-to-green, it was a great day. 
 So I think what partly -- I think it's just because you get apply a little bit more here lately and you're just gradually getting better, I don't know.  But it's working.  We're going to come out blazing tomorrow.  It's going to be fun. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Did you offer him any tips during the round or do you just let him go? 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  I'm just hoping --  I'm just hoping I don't give him any tips because I'll probably screw him up.  He's playing pretty well right now. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Bill, any thoughts to add there? 
 BILL MURRAY:  To what he said?  It's disappointing what Scott had to say.  I think we're all a little crushed, a little thunderstruck with the way he was speaking today. 
 No, he gives me help on the reads.  Everybody wants to say they gave you the right reads in case it goes in.  You know, I ask him what he hit.  You know, sometimes it helps me if I know what club he hit.  The wind is kind of funny.  I've never played here before. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  That's true. 
 BILL MURRAY:  So try to figure out where the wind is coming from.  There's some sneaky holes where the wind comes around the corner, a lot of doglegs. 
 You know, yesterday he gave me a lot of help because I kept hitting balls in the water and he had some extra golf balls.  I mean, that was the big thing. 
 I would never have completed yesterday's round without your help. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  I had to stop at the turn and I had to grab six more.  Then you lost three on the 18th hole by yourself; you played the back first. 
 BILL MURRAY:  So I was working towards double digits on lost balls. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  Usually if your lost ball count and your handicap match up, usually nobody complains, which is always a good thing. 

 Q.  Speaking of handicaps, was it last week you played at a 14 at Pebble Beach, and this being such a much more famous golf course, it's a 16 this week? 
 BILL MURRAY:  Well, I know there will be an investigation.  I've been followed around by two sheriffs all week.  I've been fully expecting this. 
 They gave me some extra shots at Pebble Beach because I'm hurt, really, but I didn't feel it at all today.  I tore my meniscus which is like a little part of the cartilage that holds your knee together and I wore a brace the last week or so.    I didn't wear it today and I played better -- because it hurts. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  I wish we could have got rid of that brace earlier. 
 BILL MURRAY:  It's just it hurts, the brace hurts, everything hurts.  I don't know, I think they gave me more because that's Australian hospitality.  I wasn't going to complain about it.  I just thought it was Aussie hospitality and they wanted me to come back or they wanted me to come back next year, or they wanted me to contribute to their charity.  I don't know what they wanted.  I'm going to get to the bottom of it. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  Big contribution.  But you've always played at a 15 -- actually when we first started, a 16 I think -- 
BILL MURRAY:  18. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  -- at the AT&T. This was the first year he played as a 14 there.  Usually at home, somewhere around 11 or 12. 
 BILL MURRAY:  I should play better, but I didn't really think -- I mean, I don't know what to say.  Except, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry for everything, and I won't take any more injections in the future. 
 I don't know, they gave me 16, I wasn't going to -- I honestly didn't think I would play so well.  If I had known I was going to play well, I would have come out as a professional, honestly.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  (Have you ever won a tournament)? 
 BILL MURRAY:  No, not actually.  We've been right up there at AT&T. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  Two different times when the tournament got cancelled, we were right there. 

 Q.  Which knee is it and how did you hurt your knee? 
 BILL MURRAY:  It's my right knee but actually I had it -- it was miss diagnosed. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  Are you for the guys that are in second or third place?  (Laughter) Yeah, which knee is it. 
 BILL MURRAY:  That's Andy Bean's wife.  (Laughter). 
 It was originally the right knee, but I had -- I feel like, this is funny.  My health problems. 
 It was originally the right knee, but it was miss diagnosed and you start compensating, so finally I was wearing braces on both knees.  It was the right knee that I originally tore, and I was told that it was a sprained MCL which turned out to be a torn meniscus instead.  And I did a lot of exercises given to me for a sprained MCL, which is the wrong thing and actually aggravated the injury and made my other knee go bad, too. 
 And how did I do it?  I did it playing golf actually at Prairie Dunes.  I played with my brother who plays in a golf cart all the time.  The whole golf course is on hills and the sand hills in Kansas, and every time you get out of the cart, you like torque your knee.  It doesn't feel like there's one time that does it or anything, but it just sort of like, it's like fraying a piece of muslin or something.  You just keep thinning it out and thinning it and very much stretching it, and then it just sort of rips like that.  It's not a definite, like this.  It just goes. 
 And it turns out it is not uncommon.  Sluman's friend had the same thing happen.  It's not uncommon that people are doing it just getting out of golf carts. 

 Q.  When did happen, was it this year? 
 BILL MURRAY:  I think November.  Whenever the member/guest was in the Prairie Dunes.  You could look it up. 

 Q.  You guys had a special guest following you around today, a 15-year-old cancer survivor, can you talk about what that experience is like when you get to have those honorary observers follow you around? 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  He was nothing but trouble.  But when he's getting over cancer, it's hard to beat him up too bad. 
 BILL MURRAY:  It's a real pain.  It's like, I've got cancer.  What did you ever do?  Yeah, nice putt.  You know, I had cancer, I would have made it.  (Laughter) he's a little brat, really. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  Terrible. 
 BILL MURRAY:  Punk.  If I ever see him again, I'm going to tear his meniscus. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  We're going to put him in a cart. 
 BILL MURRAY:  Yeah.  Make him ride in a golf cart. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  But they were great. 

 Q.  (Is it harder to play serious or is it harder for you to play better with people around)? 
 BILL MURRAY:  Well, when I play by myself or when I play with people just like a foursome, I'm not -- I'm just pretty much playing golf.  I have a nice time and people think --  people think it's going to be like, you know, I don't know what, a day at the races or something. 
 But you know, it's just different when there's a crowd because you know I found that all of these people standing around here at the golf course, they would like to have -- they would love to have a little fun.  It's just they -- they just love to have a little fun.  They are standing there all day and someone comes along and they make a putt and it's like -- there's nothing.  Everyone's trying to have a good time at a golf tournament.  It's not very hard to do.  It's not very, I don't know if you've ever walked around with us, but it's not very spooky what we're doing out there. 
 It's pretty easy.  Would it make my game any different?  I've played well in a foursome with people on an empty golf course.  It just kind of more fun. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  I don't know about that well. 
 BILL MURRAY:  Maybe not as well as I played today.  Lately I've learned something. 

 Q.  What's the best score you've ever shot? 
 BILL MURRAY:  I'm not sure, I think I shot 75 once, but I don't think I ever shot anything lower than that. 

 Q.  Where did that happen, in California, was that at your home course? 
 BILL MURRAY:  Are you with the cops or something?  (Laughter). 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  I'm going to figure out later what you shot today. 
 BILL MURRAY:  I shot it in New York at Sleepy Hollow. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  Well, Bill played great last week, he shot 81 Saturday at Pebble Beach, and the wind was howling, it was raining.  I shot 80, so I was pretty happy about that. 
 BILL MURRAY:  They were playing the pro tees.  We were playing with the girls. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Today how many shots about difficult help you? 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  I shot even and we shot, what, 11-under?  He helped me. 
 BILL MURRAY:  But there's deceptive.  You look at that score board -- did you know this?  He doesn't know.  But when you look at the scoreboard, it's like he's over par -- 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  We actually have ham-and-egged it really well. 
 BILL MURRAY:  He made five birdies but end up 4-over par.  It looks like 4-over par and what are we, 8-under but he made five of the birdies.  It's stupid, all I'm doing is making par most of the time.  I mean, he could have had a great round today. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  "Could have?" 
 BILL MURRAY:  People go, oh, the amateur helped 25 shots but that's not really it.  The pro is making the birdies.  The amateur is basically just staving off bogey most of the time. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON:  And everyone is worshipping him and throwing stuff at me. 
 BILL MURRAY:  I'm doing it all and they throw stones at him. 

 Q.  Have you ever won a golf tournament, club championship, member/guest? 
 BILL MURRAY:  I won my flight once in match play, yeah. 

 Q.  Where was that? 
 BILL MURRAY:  Same place, Sleepy Hollow. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Thanks for coming in.  Good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT