U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2015
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 66, great round.  Tell us about it?MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah.  I hit balls for about three hours yesterday and really put some hard work in and just moved the ball position back, and it really helped today.  I started on the lines I wanted to. It was different because I was really struggling the first three days, and hitting it a little more solid helps a lot. I started the round off kind of slow, the greens were a lot slower today.  I'm sure they just watered them in the morning, but got used to them on the back nine and finished strong.Q. Talk about the last holes, how did you play those holes and what did you think about the setup?MORGAN HOFFMANN: 16 was really cool, actually.  I played it that way in the U.S. Amateur there.  And tried to play it similar to the way I did back then.  Hit a slope, went in the bunker.  A par on any hole out here is good.  Par on 16. 17 was I think like 215 or just over 220, actually.  I hit 7-iron, hit the front edge and went over the green.  So that green is really firm right now and made a really long putt, which is exciting.  And then on 18 made a great birdie up and down from the left side.Q. The course is gettable today for the leaders.  Do you think you'll see scores go under par for those guys today?MORGAN HOFFMANN: If the greens stay the way they were this morning, yeah, definitely.  But I'm sure with this sun and a little bit of breeze today, I'm sure they'll bake out in the afternoon.Q. What were you able to accomplish that put you in position and post the number today?MORGAN HOFFMANN: Just working really hard yesterday and trying to hit the ball a lot more solid on the range, and it helped so much.  Just from the start of the day, I started hitting the center of the club face, which didn't happen in the beginning of the week.  So it was really nice to feel that and kind of gained confidence from there.Q. Is there any level of saying, Why didn't I think of this before, when you hit that number and think, if I could have done this two days ago, I'd just be starting my round instead of ending it?MORGAN HOFFMANN: Exactly.  If we had done this on Wednesday it would have probably helped.Q. What do you think about the course?MORGAN HOFFMANN: It's unfortunate how the greens were this week.  I was talking to Mike Davis and he said the poa annua just creeped in a couple of weeks previous to us getting here.  And it's unfortunate because they didn't roll very well, especially for a U.S. Open. But there were a few greens where it was just all fescue, like 10 and 7, I believe, which were great.  And they rolled true.  It's just unfortunate that that had to happen.  I don't think it's anybody's fault, but it was tough to putt on, for sure.Q. How similar or different did the course play from when you played at the U.S. Am in 2010, and the greens, as well?MORGAN HOFFMANN: I think it played a little easier.  In stroke play in 2010 it was just insane.  If you shot under 80 it was a great day.  The greens were pretty similar to No. 17 every green.  I'm sure if you watched the telecast today you'll see rarely any guys hit that green today because it's so firm.  And it's like 220 and I hit 7-iron and still went over.  It's pretty crazy.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT