RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2015
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good stuff today.   I know you bogeyed the last.   That's a tough finishing hole, but you got off to a great start with three consecutive birdies.   Talk about the start of the round today. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It was a great start today.   Felt great coming out of the gates.   And just tried to take advantage of hitting it well this week.   And getting on the greens here is always an opportunity here for birdie.   So it's nice to hit some greens.

Q.   I know you made bogey at 14.   That was a pretty good bogey.   Tell me about the tee shot.   Did it just come off the club face on the par‑3?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, I just had my alignment wrong a little bit today.   So I hit it right a couple of times.   I'm going to work on that on the range after, and hopefully figure it out.

Q.   How much different did this golf course play for you guys today?   Not a lot of wind.   It seemed like it was very forgiving. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, it was forgiving.   There's a low score out there, for sure, today.   Obviously Jerry Kelly played really well in my group.

Q.   Second time around playing this golf tournament for you.   What did you learn the first time that's helping you this time?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I learned to hit some fairways, and I teed it a little lower with my driver and it's helped a lot.

Q.   Not the exact finish you wanted, but overall how do you feel about your round today?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I feel great.   Feeling I left a lot out there, and hitting it well.   I'm just going to carry the positives into tomorrow. 

Q.   Feeling like you left a lot out there.   It's got to be a bonus mindset going into tomorrow, knowing maybe you can post an even a better score?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, absolutely.   I'm just going to try to keep a positive mind frame, and just go practice after the round and get the shots that I need done.

Q.   What's it take to put four good rounds on a tough course, so tight?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I think just hitting fairways is key.   Really get yourself in position off the tee and then not having that long of irons in.   So if you can hit some greens, obviously from the fairways helps.

Q.   You went to school out here, did you volunteer when you were younger out here?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   No, I didn't do any of that.   I was traveling all the time.

Q.   How many years were you(inaudible) ‑‑
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Just a year and a half.   I was over there on the fescue.   There was an academy there.   And then I played the Harbour Town a bunch obviously on the weekends.

Q.   How many times roughly do you think you've probably played here?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I don't know.   A few dozen.

Q.   You told me on Tuesday that you felt like your game was at a place where you could compete.   I know you bogeyed 18 there, but when you look at the leaderboard now and the kind of names you're hanging with, does that give you confidence heading into tomorrow and Sunday?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, absolutely.   It gives me confidence knowing that I left some shots out there on the course.   And just going to try to keep sticking to my game plan.

Q.   Are things a little more forgiving, condition‑wise?   It felt like there wasn't as much breeze blowing in your face on those last few holes, as well.   I know you missed one on 18, but overall it seemed like everything was calmer. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yes, absolutely.   The course, there were a little tougher pins today, but the course is definitely playing easier.

Q.   The last thing for me, on that second shot on 18 what were you seeing, and what kind of went wrong on that swing?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Nothing.   I guess a wind gust came up, and I got into going at a lot of pins, and I guess that's my mistake out there, and I just wanted to go at that one and get another birdie.   And then looking back at it, I actually hit it right onto the green, but I learned from that.

Q.   Can you name a shot that maybe got your round started today, something that stands out?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It was, No.1, yeah, absolutely.   Hitting wedge in there and tapped in, it was nice to see.   And had a good, positive mind frame for the rest of the round.

Q.   Did you know at that point, were you like, hey, you might be on to something good today?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, absolutely.   I feel good this week, so hopefully just keep it going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT