ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 21, 2015
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Morgan, solid for a Saturday.   You still right in the mix.   There was a time in the middle of the round there a couple back to back bogies.   You didn't let that bother you.
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Just a really weird way out there, got some mud balls in the fairway.   Couldn't control it.   Got some weird lies in the bunkers.   Brought it back and am decent for tomorrow.

Q.   Tell us about that back-9.   You came back and got right back into the mix with some birdies on the back-9.   You've had a lot of fun on that back-9 so far this week.
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   The swing feels good.   As I said, I had some weird stuff going on in the front.   Just try to forget about it and hopefully carry into tomorrow.

Q.   How about that short game?   You told us throughout the week how pleased you are with the short game.   Had to lean on it a little bit today also.
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   For sure.   With some squirely lies you're going to get some weird shots out of the bunkers or around the greens.   Good thing I practiced.

Q.   How are you feeling about tomorrow?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Feel good, I'm ready.

Q.   Morgan, you were not quite having I'm sure the front-9 that you wanted but you were able to turn things around.
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I got some really weird lies out there in the fairway.   I had some mud balls kind of hard to control.   3-putt always hurts.   Just forgot about the front-9 and tried to have some fun on the back.

Q.   First time with the lead going into the weekend.   Did today prepare you for tomorrow?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I felt like I was ready for today, absolutely.   Golf is a weird sport.   Anything can happen.   Hopefully we get some better breaks tomorrow.

Q.   You couldn't hear what Peter was just saying but he was saying essentially that he was impressed by how you reacted on the back-9 being in this position for the first time in your career on the PGA TOUR trying to win for the first time.   Give us a sense of how you felt inside today.
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   You know, I felt great coming into today.   Started off the round with the first couple holes, a weird day. 
I got some squirely lies in the fairway, got some mud balls and up against some lips in the bunkers and Steve, my caddy, was really keeping me under control today on the back-9, "Just forget about it.   Playing great."

Q.   You're certainly in a great position heading into the final round.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT