ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2015
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Morgan Hoffmann, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a 6-under 66 here at the Arnold Palmer Invitational.   Quite the exclamation point you put on the final hole there with that approach.
Making your second start here.   With that, just some comments on your round today. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah.   Started off on No. 10 and made a nice, I don't know how long it was, 40-footer and kind started the day off right and from there kind of executed my shots and was patient all day and our goal for this week, just to hit the middle of the greens because my stats this year have been pretty terrible from the fairway and greens in regulation. 
So, trying to switch it up and just hit some greens.
DOUG MILNE:   With that we'll jump in and take some questions.

Q.   I just want to know how long, what you used at No. 9.
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   9-iron.

Q.   What was your number?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   154.
DOUG MILNE:   Eight inches.   Inside a foot.
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   In the leather.

Q.   Did you see it, take a peak?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   To us it looked like it was in the hole hanging up against the flag stick, the flag is going to bend over.   But, yeah, it was pretty cool shot regardless.

Q.   How would you describe the start of the year, the finish you had last year?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Pretty disappointing.   Missed a couple cuts and then didn't really finish well on the weekends and just been missing my shots both ways out there and it's been pretty frustrating. 
So, Tampa really put a spark under me and went back to Jupiter and hit a lot of balls last weekend and I think I mean I hit balls all day on Saturday, Sunday and hit every shot, hitting a cut because just trying to work one shot into my game and it's really paid off.

Q.   What is your shot?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I try to hit a straight shot what I like the see and that's normal to me.   Best player that I see out here comes out and has one shot that they're hitting for the most part of every round and I figured it's time to bear down and get something going.

Q.   Technically what was the issue that you had? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Technically I guess coming a little from the inside and not really hitting through the ball aggressively.

Q.   With such a good round today what do you have to do mentally to kind of keep the momentum going into the 2nd round tomorrow?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Mentally I'm in kind of a weird state right now.   My grandma passed away this morning so I'm just pretty chilled out there and loving life right now.   Just wish my family the best at home.

Q.   Did you plan on playing today's round in memory of your grandmother?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Absolutely.   My whole family texted me and said, "Nanny is playing golf with pop up there" which was pretty cool and so I just went out there and had a good mentality today.

Q.   Did she play a lot golf?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Not really.   When she was younger they went out and hacked it around.   They liked the game for sure.

Q.   What's her name?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Dorothy Lionetti.

Q.   Spell it, please.
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   D-O-R --
             Q.   Yes.
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   L-I-O-N-E-T-T-I.
DOUG MILNE:   Mother's side?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Mom.

Q.   How old was she?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   97.

Q.   That's awesome.   In Fort Lauderdale, you said?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yes.

Q.   What emotions could you tell us about her?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   She was awesome, really positive.   The best cook every.   Hundred percent Italian, came from Italy when they were I think mid teens and raised my mom and six other children and she made homemade pasta for us all the time and, you know, straight Italian cooking.   Awesome.
We'll miss her for sure.

Q.   Your mom was one of seven kids?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   One of six.

Q.   She is from New Jersey? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   They had homes in Fort Lauderdale and New Jersey.   When she got about 80 they stayed in Florida because of the weather.

Q.   Was this expected?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah.   She progressed over the last really a year, she kind of was on the decline but I don't think she was in pain which is great and my family -- I think four of the brothers and sisters were there last night and she just passed in her sleep this morning.   It was pretty nice, nice way to go.

Q.   So you say you're in a weird state.   Is it a better way to play that?   How did it help you out there just in general?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah.   I mean appreciative, I think, of just being alive, you know and how you take things for granted and take people for granted and it's just crazy how quick life goes.   I'm 25 and feels like I was five rollerskating with my sister yesterday, you know.
So, it's the same for her and the family.

Q.   What's your schedule look like after this and what in particular are you trying to work on before Augusta?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I'm taking the next two weeks off, actually.   I'm going to go up to Augusta I believe next week, get a little practice in and then just grind and hone the game in the week before and then go up Sunday.

Q.   The story goes that you knew that you wanted to do this when you were a little kid.   Is that true, is that myth or what can you tell us about that? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, I did.   My sister is actually going to be a veterinarian.   She's in vet school right now.   Since we were both five years old she -- she's always like, "I'm going to be a vet and help animals."   "I'm going to be a pro golfer." 
We were lucky to be living our dreams and you know, as I had said, we're lucky to be here.

Q.   She older or younger gear?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Younger.   Turned 23 March 13th.

Q.   Is that telling you not to shoot birdies?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I'll tell her whenever she gets it I'm bringing all the animals home.

Q.   How did you know what a pro golfer was when you were five?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   My dad played golf.   He was always pretty good, like plus 1 or 2 and he taught me and got me started in diapers with plastic clubs.

Q.   Bunker shot on 6. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, it was a tough one.   I knew I needed to stop it pretty quick and if that pin wasn't there it was going ten feet by for sure, but I've been telling Steve, my caddy, that my short game has felt pretty good over the last couple of weeks and I haven't had a hole out or chip-in in awhile and every time I missed the green I'm chipping this one in.   Always hit good chips and finally the one that I mishit actually goes in.   Just funny how the game is laughter.

Q.   You said you hit balls on Saturday, Sunday.   Where do you play?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   The Bear Club and Dye's Preserve, also.

Q.   How exactly long was this session?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I got out at 8 and left at dark.   7:30.   12 hours, yeah.

Q.   You had lunch that day?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I actually cook my meals the night before and eat on the course and stuff.   Even out here I have a Tupperware and cooler in my bag and I cook my meals and I just figure it's better than eating candy bars or protein bars.   I have real food out there.

Q.   How do you do that on the road?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I go to hotels that have kitchens.

Q.   How long have you been doing this?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Probably a month now.   My eating habits have been pretty strict.   I'm trying to step it up, really get focused for the Masters and these Majors.

Q.   What was for lunch today?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I had bison steak, broccoli and sweet potatoes.

Q.   How does Steve feel about carrying a cooler around?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   He says I shoot 6-under everyday he'll carry whatever I want.

Q.   Where do you buy bison?   That's not something you get at Publix.
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Whole Foods or Fresh Market.

Q.   So, you're not making like sandwiches out there, you're making real food and how much does it vary?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah.   I mean I always have a protein, good carbs and vegetables.   The carbs are pretty limited to sweet potatoes and brown rice and vegetables, I have a pretty broad range, and meat, chicken, turkey, bison and hot protein.

Q.   Have you noticed a change in your energy levels or your weight or your waist size or anything? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yes.   So this off-season is really when I started focusing on my eating because I wanted to put on 15 pounds and I did from November to December I put on 15 and it sucked before Sony I got food poisoning and lost 10 of it.   But I'm trying to put it back on.   Eating six meals a day and I feel good out there.   The energy level is great.

Q.   Was the food poisoning, your cooking or (laughter) --
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   No.   I was out with some friends and late night ate a pizza and it wasn't really good.

Q.   You were eating real food instead of the food you make?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I don't know if it was real or not.

Q.   Seriously, is this a health food kick or is it something that you thought about and went through and decided okay?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I've been doing it for about two years steady now.

Q.   What else can you regale us with today?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I have a lot of stuff you guys didn't ask.

Q.   Push the right buttons, right? 
You played well in the last couple tournaments you've been in but what does it mean for you after Day One to be in the lead in Arnie's tournament?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It's awesome.   That's a good question because Arnie has inspired me very heavily since 2009 when I played the Palmer Cup at Cherry Hills and we talked for about an hour about flying and he's inspired me to get my pilot's license and fly myself to tournaments now which I'm doing, and it's pretty cool and he's been a big inspiration in my life and the biggest thing he said is respect everybody and no matter how old or young, and he said make your signature is legible which his is a class act and I try to make mine and I don't know if it's that good yet or not but I'm trying.

Q.   Was it bad before you had that conversation?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah.   I mean I definitely practiced my signature which was pretty weird after that conversation (laughter).   He's helped me get to where I am today for sure.

Q.   How do you eat a steak on a golf course?   Did you have a plate and knife and fork?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Bare-handed.

Q.   Broccoli, too? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Steve likes the broccoli.

Q.   The broccoli cooked or raw? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It's steamed, yeah.

Q.   Did you say you're flying yourself to tournaments now?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yes.

Q.   When did you start doing that?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I took ground school in college.   I've been flying about four years and I got a plane six months ago.

Q.   Did you fly to this tournament?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yup.   My best friend, Dave Booth plays for the Toronto Maple Leafs.   He's been flying and he kind of inspired me with Arnie and had a plane that was pretty sweet and he was upgrading about six months ago and he's like, "Hey, You want mine?"   "Yeah, absolutely." 
So he gave it to me for very cheap and kept up with it and it's been great.

Q.   What kind of plane?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Piper Lance, 6-seater, turbo prop.

Q.   Speed?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Just over 200 miles an hour cruising.   Like 180 knots.

Q.   Hour to get here?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   30 minutes from Jupiter.   Flew to Tampa with Derrick last week.   Pretty fun.   He was too scared to touch the yoke.   I was liker, "Dude, we're on autopilot.   Just turn it."   He's like, "No."   Pretty funny.
DOUG MILNE:   All right.

Q.   Did you play hockey as a kid?   I'm just searching right now, anything to throw out?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Played ice hockey my whole life.   Still do.   Got new skates, actually.   The week of Tampa I was supposed to go out and play in the Wayne Gretzky tournament for hockey.   I was supposed to go out to Vegas and play.   I decided to not get hurt and be smart.
DOUG MILNE:   All right.   Morgan, thanks for time.   We appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT