BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2014
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH: We would like to welcome Morgan Hoffmann to the interview room.  Morgan, just an incredible display of golf over the last two days.  New 36 hole record on TOUR this season.  Just comment on a little bit about your play this weekend and how much it means to advance to the TOUR Championship by Coca Cola next week.   MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, it means the world to me.  Since the beginning of this season, I've had a goal to get to Atlanta.  Coming into the weekend, I knew I had to go pretty low. My caddie and I had a really good mindset and everything was positive this week.  I had some friends come in and drove some sweet cars, and everything.  It just all fell into line pretty much.  It was a lot of fun out there.   JOHN BUSH: Great.  Let's go right into questions.   Q.  To look at your scores, one would think that something seriously clicked on Friday afternoon or Saturday morning.  What happened?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: It's funny, after the first two days I didn't really hit it much better on the weekend than the first two days.  Made a couple bigger numbers on Thursday and Friday and obviously, more putts went in on the weekend. So, it was just a lot of fun.  Kind of tried to stay positive and go out there with the same swing and try and kill it.   Q.  This being a short week for you, and probably not playing at altitude very much, how long does it take for you to adjust to conditions here?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: A lot of people have asked that question, and I don't think it's that difficult, because you just put 10 percent into your yardages and pretty much play the same numbers. So, if you just trust the yardage, it's obviously going to look a little further than the number.  But if you trust it, it shouldn't be a problem for most players.  I don't think they had much difficulty.   Q.  Last week you were kind of watching the standings to get into 70, and then this week were you kind of thinking about it today and what was your mindset about the standings going into today?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, of course.  It wasn't in my mindset on the course, like, oh, I got to get inside the Top-30.  I think I had more of a number kind of goals on certain holes to take me there slowly. The game plan worked out.  I'm pretty happy.   Q.  There was a lot of talk about fatigue this week with the playoffs nearing their end.  If you could start the TOUR Championship tomorrow or maybe in about 10 minutes, would you do that?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Probably not.  I'd like to have a couple days off.  Take Monday off for sure and just relax and recoup. Go to the Broncos game tonight, have a little fun.  My trainer and I have been working really hard on doing metabolic training after my workouts and getting my heart rate up.  So, I feel great and can't wait for next week.   Q.  Would you say -- were you in like the nothing to lose mode, or did you start actually thinking this could happen for you?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: No, absolutely.  That's a perfect way of putting it.  Nothing to lose, carefree, and just go out and fire at pins.  That's basically how I was playing and pretty much the whole time during these playoffs.   Q.  So, Top-30 means big things for next year, right?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yes.   Q.  Have you thought that through?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Absolutely.  I walked out of the scoring tent and Ricky pretty much chest bumped me, and he's like he knew exactly what's going on. And it's going to be really exciting to play in the Majors with him next year.  And growing up playing against each other in junior golf, it's going to be so much fun. And it's always been a dream of mine to play in the Masters.  So can't wait.   JOHN BUSH: Morgan Hoffmann.  Congratulations once again.   MORGAN HOFFMANN: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT