BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2014
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Quite a round of golf.  If we can get some comments on your day, please.  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, I kept the same game plan as the first couple days and kind of just stayed aggressive out there.  Hitting driver as much as I can to get wedges in my hand.  Been working on wedges this whole year, and it's finally paying off.   Q.  The first two days your aggressiveness cost you maybe three bogeys each day and a double.  So.  What was the difference today?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Just a little more confidence.  I got some practice in on the range.  And just going out there kind of carefree, and I mean, I don't have anything to lose, so I was just trying to have some fun. Actually, my playing partners helped me out today.  We had a great time out there today.   Q.  Was it great range session yesterday after your round or this morning?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: This morning.  Just didn't hit too many balls.  Just went out there hitting different shots and shaping them.  I kind of felt good.  Putting a lot better, obviously, today, too.   Q.  You guys were 16-under as a group.  Did you kind of feed off each other when you start getting going and birdies start flying that early?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, we were feeding off each other a bunch.  We were joking around the whole day.  Kind of just messing with each other, which is a lot of fun out there.  It really helped our game and just kind of a carefree attitude for the whole group.   Q.  When you're 7-under after 10, are you able to continue staying in the moment, or do other thoughts start creeping in about how low this round could go?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: No, I mean my goal is to go as low as possible.  I don't think you should be out here if you're scared to go low. It was kind fun for me.  After I was 8-under through 12 or 13, that 59 number was a big goal for me, and it was possible with three more birdies coming in.  But, hopefully, I can pull it off tomorrow.   Q.  What's your lowest round in competition?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: 62.  But that was 10-under in college.  That was at Southern Highlands in Vegas.   Q.  What's your previous TOUR low?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Not sure.   Q.  What happened on 6 there where you hit it over the green in the back bunker?  Was that adrenaline?  Was that club?  What was that?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: I don't know, I guess the wind kind of caught it a little bit.  I was going right at the pin.  It was a good swing, the shadows kind of caught it and we didn't see where it landed.  My caddie and I thought it was good, but, that happens out there.  It's golf.   Q.  Was it meaningful to have a course record, especially at a course like this?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, absolutely, it's really cool.  It's such an honor, especially with all the history here and all the great championships that have been played here, it's really cool.   Q.  What do you remember about the Palmer Cup playing here in 2009?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, the Palmer Cup was great.  Cameron Tringale and I played alternate shot. And ever since then, my dad calls him "even man" because he played the even holes.  And it was pretty fun.  We got to play aggressive golf then, so it kind of set us up for this week.   Q.  Did it help you at all, coming back here five years later, having some familiarity?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, absolutely.  Definitely.  This place hasn't changed much, it's as good as I remember.  I love coming back here.  The facilities are great, and everybody treats us awesome.   Q.  Another low one to keep the season going, do you think that's in there?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Absolutely, I'm going to be going low and being as aggressive as I can.  There's no reason not to.  I have to finish like top 2 to move on.   Q.  What was your approach coming here with the FedExCup?  Were you thinking about it, getting to the next step?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, absolutely.  My goal all year has been to get into the finals and Atlanta. So, those first two rounds really hurt me, but hopefully a good one tomorrow can propel me up there.   Q.  Were the pin positions a little more accessible too?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: I think the greens are just so much more soft than the first day.  You can really throw it at the flags and keep it there.   Q.  Getting in at 68, just barely getting in here.  Did that make this week easy, almost, because it was kind of like a bonus?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Absolutely.  This whole FedExCup has been a bonus really.  Not winning at all, but sneaking in was kind of a high and just trying to have some fun out here and keep riding the train.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT