DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2014
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  As you came to the 18th tee, looking like you need at least a par to secure a spot in the BMW Championship, how was your stress level at that point?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Well, I hit a perfect drive.  I felt calm on the tee.  I drove it perfect down the middle.  It was between a 4- and 5-iron, and I tried to hit a perfect 5, but where it ended up wasn't too bad, but it was right up against the collar, and then I played a pretty poor chip.  But then I made a good up and down.  I was lucky to get out of there with five.   Q.  How difficult considering everything that was on the line for you, was that final 12-footer, which, by the way, was the longest putt you made today.  MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, it was pretty nerve-wracking.  I knew it was a big putt.  I knew if I birdied the hole, I probably had a good chance.  I just made a mess of it up by the green.  I had to take a couple of deep breaths and really focus in.  It was nice when it went in.   Q.  I asked you what was your stress level like on the 18th tee.  It looks like you're going to advance to the BMW Championship, but it is still a fluid situation.  What's your stress level like now?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: I'm fine now.  I've done what I can do.  Yeah, I would love to have made birdie there.  Hopefully I will move on to next week.   Q.  Did you come in with a number in mind today?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: I knew I had to shoot 4- or 5-under.  But you just don't know how everybody else is going to play.  I got off to a great start and just kept that momentum going.  The course played a little bit easier with the softer greens.  As I was playing my round I was thinking, well, maybe 4 and 5 is not going to do it.  I was hoping to get to 6.  But I got to 5, which is hopefully good enough.   Q.  On the chip on the third shot were you playing for birdie there or just trying --  MORGAN HOFFMANN: I couldn't have got it in a worse spot.  The angle I was, there was a ridge there, so if I go left of the ridge, that's the only way to get it close.  If it went right it would have taken the ridge, and then I was up against the collar which made it even more difficult.  Overall I didn't play a very good chip, but I took the shot on, and then it went left and long, and I managed to get it up and down, which was nice.  I could have baled it out right and played for the par, but I was going for the birdie.   Q.  How stressful are rounds like this where you're watching double numbers fluctuate?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: I wasn't too stressed out, because I knew I had to have a good round, but I wanted to have a chance for mine to go.  After nine holes I put myself in that position.  Yeah, it was a little bit more tense than a normal event.  You want to advance, you don't want the season to be over.  I played very nicely.  I played great today.  I could have shot really low, but I was happy to get to 5-under.  End.   Q.  Here with Morgan Hoffmann who birdied the final two holes, 17 and 18, to jump inside the number for now at 68 which will get you a spot at the BMW Championship.  Walk us through those final two holes and everything that was going through your mind.  MORGAN HOFFMANN: I was playing good all day.  I just had a couple of bad holes, two doubles on the front side.  I just had to stay positive.  I birdied the last two, and put myself in good positions off the tee and thankfully pulled it off.   Q.  It's been an interesting couple of weeks for you.  You snuck into the playoffs.  And then top-10 in the Barclays, which got you here.  And now you have a chance to move on to the next one.  You've had to basically fight your way into the next week every event in the playoffs and even the one before.  What do you have to do in your mind to prepare for something like that?  MORGAN HOFFMANN: It's been a fun ride.  I kind of -- my caddie and I talked a lot about it before coming into the playoffs, after we snuck in there after the Wyndham.  And I went back to my college days mentality, just freewheeling it, having fun, not really looking at the scoreboards, just going out and playing my game and playing aggressive, which I like to do.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT