THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2014
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid, 5‑under for 7‑under, thoughts on how you played?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Today was a lot better.   Worked on it last night pretty hard on the range and got my speed down putting which was really key for me today.  
   
 Q.   What's it like to have that ovation at 18?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, it was really cool.   Guess I feel like Tiger kind of around here, which is a pretty cool experience.   I can't be more happy right now.  
   
 Q.   How do you think the golf course played today?   What did you think of the hole locations?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   The hole locations were tough today.   The rough is getting worse day by day.   The greens were great.   They rolled a lot better today.  
   
 Q.   Looking ahead, you were on the outside looking into the Top‑100 and you've played your way in but a lot of work left?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Definitely a lot of work left.   Going to play it one shot at a time and have as much fun as I can.   
   
 Q.   You grew up ten minutes away from the golf course.   How pleased are you with the performance and in the mix?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, it was awesome.   I've been working hard the last few days coming into this week and just can't be more happy to be here.   We're the home crowd and some friends and family around.   
   
 Q.   How often have you played this golf course, perhaps more than anyone else in this field?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Grew up playing high school golf here and I live ten minutes from here, and a few weeks ago, came up and just got ready for the event.   
   
 Q.   You came into this week 124 in the FedExCup standings.   What does a round like this do for you as you try to extend the season?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It was a big confidence booster going into tomorrow and just going to take one shot at a time and not really think about numbers tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You've shown that this golf course can give a low 1‑up here on Saturday.   How is it playing with respect to the first two days and what are the leaders going to see?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It's tough.   The rough is definitely thinker today.   The greens are rolling a little bit faster and the pin positions are pretty good so you have to golf your ball a little bit.   
   
 Q.   How often have you played out here in the past?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, a bunch.   My home course, Arcola, is two miles away and this is kind of the sister course, per se.   The greens are very similar over there and it was pretty nice preparing here and there for this event.   
   
 Q.   How do you think it's benefitted staying at your mom's house?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I went out with some friends last night I haven't seen in forever since high school and it was so great, I was cracking up all night and just trying to keep the mood a little bit light and it seemed to be working.   
   
 Q.   How many friends and family members were out here today?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   A bunch.   Pretty much everybody in the crowd I recognized, which was really cool.   
   
 Q.   You come into this week with a nothing‑to‑lose attitude based on being 124; nothing you can do?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, my caddie and I have just been really evaluating my game a lot recently.   I've kind of played tentative on TOUR and that's not really my style.   I like to be aggressive and sometimes put me in good positions and sometimes it doesn't, but this week I'm just going out and having fun and being as aggressive as possible.   
   
 Q.   When every face you see is a familiar one, is it a lot to get used to?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It's actually been really hard to not look into the crowd, because I want to, and go say hi to everybody but I need to stay focused and hopefully catch up after.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like there was extra pressure on you, maybe coming down these last few holes because people knew you?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   No, I mean, I don't really mind what people are going to think of me or not, if I do well or don't.   The pressure is all put on myself and this year I've put a lot, way too much on myself but right now I'm just kind of free‑wheeling it and having fun and forgetting about pressure.  
   
 Q.   How does this compare to the other rounds as a pro and all the way back to the Pioneer Tour?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It's great.   I've had a lot of low rounds out there and it's great to have a good one on Saturday when it means a lot and hopefully bump me up the FedExCup if I have a good one tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   The three consecutive birdies, the long putt, what does that do for your confidence?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It was great.   It was a bonus.   Any putt over 20 feet is always a really good confidence‑booster and it kind of propelled me up and let me play more free like I wanted to.   
   
 Q.   You were staying at your parent's house this week?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   My mom's.   My old bedroom, I have posters and Walker Cup pictures and all that stuff.   It's so comfortable, I don't really care.   It's the same.   My mom has kept it off‑key, so it's good.   
   
 Q.   What do you guys talk about on the ride over to the course?   I don't think any other players are riding here with their mom.   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I'm just kind of listening to music and she's just being positive like she always is.   And I'm like, mom, let me just listen to music.   But she's great.   She's so positive and I can't ask for anything more.   
   
 Q.   You said you kind of have been not worried about expectations and what other people think, tomorrow you come out and there's going to be a late tee time, how do you keep that going when it's going to matter the most?   
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It's great.   Ever since I was a little kid playing hockey, the more fans, the more comfortable I felt; I really didn't feel any pressure today.   I swung the best I have in probably months, and the pressure kind of frees me up, I don't know why but it feels great.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to do tonight?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Hang out with some friends again and probably just go to my favorite spots.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT