HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2014
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Morgan Hoffman after a bogey‑free 4‑under par 66.   Can we get comments about your round? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, definitely a lot better today.   Yesterday I was all over the place and it was nice to hit fairways and give myself some opportunities. 

Q.   Take us through the four birdies. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   If I can remember them.   I'm not very good at remembering them. 

Q.   Any long putts stand out?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Par 3, 13, is that a par 3? 

Q.   Yeah, it is. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It was a good putt, it was a downhill left to righter and Martin Flores made a long one before me and gave me motivation there. 

Q.   I'm going to ask you to remember a hole!   16, do you consider that a nice save after your second shot or do you consider it a missed opportunity because of what you were able to do with your third shot? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I saw it as a missed opportunity.   I caught a mud ball in the fairway.   It was a good swing and you never know what they're going to do.   Since that happened it was a good save because that was a tough shot, I had like a 6‑iron runner. 

Q.   Last year 66 to finish this tournament.   Can you talk about how important this event was for you last year? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It was a really good turning point for my season.   Prior to this I didn't play very well and kind of got the vibe of Oklahoma State feel because it was windy the last few days, and we practice in the wind a lot and just trying to hit fairway and remembering some good college days.   I drove it really well in college so trying to keep that in mind. 

Q.   Morgan, you've been trending in the right direction for a while now.   Are you starting to feel more comfortable in this position on the leaderboard going into the weekend? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, definitely, trying to stay positive, Ryan and I are trying to have as much fun as we can, that's my caddy, we were singing reggae songs today and being as stupid as possible. 

Q.   What were you singing? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   God, if I can remember the song, "Here Comes The Hotstepper." 

Q.   Did you want to sing a little bit for us? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I'm not going to sing. 

Q.   Like you said, we're used to more wind here.   Can you talk about scoring conditions today and how they were today?   We don't see it much like today here. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   You're right, I'm surprised that the scores weren't lower but being the rough not as high this year.   I thought the scores would be really low but since it's such a good course, the pins were tucked today and it played pretty difficult but it did play easier since there wasn't any wind. 

Q.   How would you describe your year to date?   Has it gone the way you wanted it to?   Is it a learning process? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It's definitely a learning process.   It's so nice to come out and play courses that I know, and I feel a lot more confident and I haven't really got the results yet that I'm looking for but I think it's coming around the corner, pretty close. 

Q.   How common is that for you to decide to sing music during the round? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Pretty common.   On Tuesday, every practice round I have a Bose speaker in my bag and we have some jams going and I had that stuck in my head.   The last few events we had reggae going so I guess that's why. 

Q.   Are you a care karaoke? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   No, not karaoke, try and keep it not to the public. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   No, some pretty weird stuff.   It's very random. 

Q.   People are going to be looking for it now. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   If you come for a Tuesday practice round we'll be out there. 

Q.   I was hoping you would talk about the importance of driving on this golf course.   You talked about yesterday, it had to be a pretty decent score if you were all over the place with the driver. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, from a visual standpoint from the tee it looks pretty open except for a few holes but the holes that look open, there's trees positioned in strategic points.   And especially on 14, if you hit a perfect 3‑iron down there you can be blocked out by the tree on the right side.   It's a good course and it can sneak up on you so it's a potter's course and you gotta work your way around it. 

Q.   Morgan, we have guys like Mike Weir, Padraig Harrington, Retief Goosen.   Do you have to pinch yourself a little bit to see that you're on the same leaderboard as them or are you intimidated being on the same leaderboard? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It makes it easier since all those guys that you mentioned are really nice.   Every time I see them in the locker room they introduce themselves or say, hey, Morgan, how you doin'?   It is really cool, though, since I grew up with them‑‑ or grew up watching them and now playing with them, it's a real honor and hopefully get to play with them down the road.   It's really cool seeing my name with them on the leaderboard. 

Q.   Do you remember the last time you played bogey free and how good you feel you played today? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I don't remember the last time, I'm not very good as remembering, as you can tell. 
Felt really good today.   Just hit some fairways and hit a lot of greens which made it a lot easier.   The spots that I missed in left me some easy up and downs, so it kept the round flowing. 

Q.   What was the worst hole you did today? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   The worst hole?   No. 1 I had a really bad drive, and I hit a really good recovery shot out there to like 20 feet.   Coming off a tough drive it was a good shot but that's pretty much the worst drive I hit all day. 
THE MODERATOR:   Morgan Hoffmann, thank you, sir.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT