THE BARCLAYS
August 22, 2013
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your day, not bad, 4‑under?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It was a huge up‑and‑down day today.   Started off hitting it probably worse than I have all year and it was such a grind out there.   My short game saved me today, and my putting was on, and it was nice to have that, because I didn't have much else.

Q.   How about the club on 18, right before the horn, talk about the shot. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I wanted to get to four coming down the back side, and be thank God we had that green book, because it saved us, because it was getting really dark.   It was nice to have those and I'm glad Ryan paid whatever it was to get it.

Q.   Now that you've had a day like this‑‑
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, I mean, definitely gained a lot of confidence coming down the stretch there, hitting it a little bit better.   I think if I continue the ball‑striking like I did on the back side, then it should be a good day tomorrow.

Q.   Pedometer update, how many steps today?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   19,413. 

Q.   So you're only a couple hundred away   (Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey and New Jersey Golf Foundation).
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, they wanted me to start on Thursday, so I wanted to be honest. 

Q.   What time did you get up? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I got up at 5:20. 

Q.   How hard is it to stay‑‑ so many up‑and‑downs, teeing off, getting pulled away, get five holes in?
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It was tough.   I think I had like five or six full meals today.   Just trying to recuperate, keep the sugar level kind of high and especially going right back out, just get a good stretch in before each round. 

Q.   How nice to have the support that you had? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   I was pretty nervous on the first tee playing in front of a home crowd, it was really nice to have.   I can't wait for the weekend. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   It was nice to stick that and get a birdie off the first hole. 

Q.   The putts today‑‑
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, it was great.   Last week I didn't putt very well, and this week at the beginning of the week, I practiced pretty hard and did a lot of good drills, and the confidence was up there today.   So it was nice to have. 

Q.   What was mind‑set, even through 12, going into 13, were you thinking that you could get on a little run? 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Our goal was to have three more coming in and get us in good position for tomorrow.

Q.   That was a veteran move on 18, going to the tee first. 
MORGAN HOFFMANN:   Yeah, those guys were kind of pushing me, too, to go ahead and finish, so it was perfect time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT