JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 13, 2016
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you think it's too dark to play right now?  Marino ran up to the tee at 18 trying to tee off, trying to get it done.  It's dark out here.
MORGAN HOFFMANN: It is dark.  The TV definitely doesn't show it, but Marino, he'll play in anything.  He's a great competitor.
Q. You stepped on the gas on No. 11 and then made six birdies in a row.  62, you tie your lowest round on the PGA TOUR.  What is the feeling going into the final round tomorrow?
MORGAN HOFFMANN: It's a great feeling.  The process has been playing out well, and had a good plan coming into this week with my coach Gary coming into town.  It's nice to have something working out finally.
Q. That was a pretty awesome round of golf to watch.  Is that the most you've made in a row, six?
MORGAN HOFFMANN: I made seven when I was like 14, but on TOUR, yes, definitely.
Q. After a round like that, the momentum keeps going, when you lose the momentum a little a 17, what do you tell yourself when you get to the 18th green?
MORGAN HOFFMANN: You know, I was hitting good shots still, had a good wedge shot coming down 17.  It was a little too spinny.  But 18 felt good with the driver, and just tried to hit a wedge too hard on the last, but feel good going into tomorrow.
Q. After a round like that, I can't imagine there's anything to change for tomorrow, so you're in great shape.  Thoughts about championship Sunday?
MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, just going to keep going through the process that I have and the plan that I have in the morning and stick to it and let the range session be nice and easy and go into the final round with a good attitude.
Q. That back nine was fantastic.
MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, it was great.  Really exciting to make six birdies in a row anywhere on any course.  Definitely fun.
Q. How much of a challenge was this because we think it's getting really dark.  It had to be getting dark out there for you guys?
MORGAN HOFFMANN: It is really dark, and the last few greens are getting really soft and bumpy, too, so it was hard to read.  But the guys -- I guess they're running in right now.
Q. How do you feel going into tomorrow, all that kind of stuff, near the top of the leaderboard?
MORGAN HOFFMANN: I feel great.  Really good with the swing.  I've been shaping it both ways and it feels solid.  Just trying to stick to my routine and get it in tomorrow.
Q. How did it feel racking up birdie after birdie, and have you done that recently?
MORGAN HOFFMANN: I mean, in practice rounds I'll shoot low occasionally, but 9-under on any course I'm ecstatic about.
Q. Was there a swing thought with the putter that clicked for you at the start of this six-birdie stretch?
MORGAN HOFFMANN: To be honest, it kind of started yesterday on my 12th hole.  My caddie just said -- we always practice one-handed putting strokes on the practice greens, and he's like, just free it up and make those practice swings in the tournament, and it was great, and it felt really good and started hitting solid putts, and they started going in.
Q. You were sitting six, seven shots back, and now you're going to be tied or just one back.  Crazy how this can change with a stretch like that.
MORGAN HOFFMANN: It is.  It's a crazy game.  Just always stay positive and you never know what's going to happen.
Q. Do you prepare for that craziness tomorrow because just as much as it moves around today, it can do the same tomorrow?
MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, it's going to be low again tomorrow.  I think the weather is going to be good, so just got to stay patient, and no matter what happens, just got to have fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT