SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 24, 2015
Morgan Hoffmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Morgan, after what had to be a frustrating 12 holes, quite the adventure there in the final four for you?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, for sure.  The first 12 I was just all over the map, and my caddie kept saying to me, (inaudible) the last few holes, so it was nice.  Unfortunate finish but ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You stepped on the 17th tee tied for the lead, you made birdie there, you stepped to 18 with the lead and what happened on the tee shot?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, I just was really focusing on tempo on the back nine because my tempo was really quick on the front, so I kind of overdid it and just kind of got stuck.  It was one bad swing, so I'm not really going to put so much emphasis on it for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Talk about the decision to hit the ball off of the rocks there.  It looked like it could be a good lie there, looked like you had it.  
MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, it did.  I was just saying if I could see the ball in there and it wasn't in the bush, I'd give it a shot.  Yeah, lucky to get out of there with bogey.   
 Q.  Talk about your round today.  
MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, a roller coaster round for sure, but overall, final group tomorrow, I'm pleased.   
 Q.  Obviously tough to finish with a bogey there.  Talk a little bit about that last hole.  
MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, just got really quick on the front nine, and on that last tee shot I was really focusing on tempo and kind of overdid it and got stuck a little bit, but I'm happy to have walked away with bogey.   
 Q.  You're looking for your first PGA TOUR win tomorrow.  What would it mean tomorrow to close it out?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN: Just going to stay patient, hit some balls on the range here and work on my swing a little bit, and should be good to go for tomorrow, and hopefully it's a fun day.   
 Q.  I know you had a little bit of trouble with your spikes this morning.  What happened there?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN: Yeah, just some trouble in the locker room trying to find the right size and all that, but ended up doing it myself, and it worked out.   
 Q.  Was that a shorter warm-up than you normally have?  Were you feeling a little rushed?  
MORGAN HOFFMANN: No, I didn't feel rushed.  I do most of my warm-up in the gym, and I don't really go out there and try and find a swing.  I'll give myself a little bit more time tomorrow for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT