BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2011
Barnes Arico
Da'Shena Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 DePaul: 66
  St. John's: 54 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Joining me is Kim Barnes Arcio and Da'Shena Stevens. Coach, opening statement?   
 COACH BARNES ARICO: I thought they came out and took advantage of us early and DePaul is a great basketball team. We were battling back all game. I was proud of the effort our kids gave and we made some runs to try and close the gap and make it a good game but DePaul has some great players and they did it down the stretch.  
 They came away with the victory but I was proud of how our kids fought, especially in the second half and my best wishes to DePaul because they have a great team.   
  
  Q. Late in the first half you guys came up with some good defense and you started slowing the clock down and winding the clock down, what else were you trying to do at that point to prevent them from running up and down the Court?   
 Da'SHENA STEVENS: Our main focus was to get back in transition and they were hitting 3's on us so just to find the shooters and try to rebound because they were getting some second chances in the first half.   
  
  Q. How tough is it with a team like DePaul when you have to guard the 3 because of their great 3-point shooting, and when you take that away they were getting cuts inside and getting to the post players, for a team that has both of those things?   
 Da'SHENA STEVENS: It makes it hard to defend them when they're hitting their shots, you go out to the shooter and you leave it open for the bigs down low and they can finish and it makes it tough but you've got to try to take something away and that's what we tried to do tonight.   
  
  Q. Coach, can you talk about you did win a game in the tournament and what that means for the team going forward in the postseason.   
 COACH BARNES ARICO: I thought yesterday was an outstanding game for us, I think West Virginia is a great program and for us to come to the Big East tournament and get that victory was a great victory for us and helps our resume getting into the NCAA Tournament. But we knew playing back-to-back, we really exerted ourselves, spent a lot of energy playing West Virginia yesterday we knew today was going to be tough especially the way DePaul plays and the way they like to run, and I think that showed a little bit of fatigue for us today, but yesterday was a great win and it helps us and it's great for our team to come here and get to this round especially with the competition in our league.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, ladies.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT