NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v GIANTS
October 8, 2000
Bobby J. Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Bobby Valentine mentioned that your wife had predicted that you would pitch the game of your life; is she good at predictions? 
 
BOBBY J. JONES:   Well, she told me the same thing.  I hope she's always right like that.  I didn't remember it until Bobby said something to me, because obviously, I'm worrying about who I need to get out and what pitches I need to make at that time.  It was a good call, because it was definitely probably the best game that I had ever pitched.  
 

Q.  Following up on that, can you explain it?  Was it adrenaline?  Was your stuff just that good today? 
 
BOBBY J. JONES:   I think it was a lot of both.  My stuff was really good, and my command was better.  That's something that I have to have.  I've said it before that if I am not hitting my spots, then I'm going to give up hits.  Tonight, I just felt like I could throw the ball where I wanted to.  I had confidence in all of my pitches and then again, there was some adrenaline.  I knew it was an important game.  Obviously, for the team, the fans, for myself, just from what I went through earlier in the beginning of the season.  I'm just pleased that after what I went through, to battle back and to have a chance to do something in the post-season, it meant a lot.  
 

Q.  Were you surprised not to see a pinch-hitter in the fifth? 
 
BOBBY J. JONES:   When I was out there, I did think about that.  With first and third (runners on base) I made a good pitch with Aurilia, give our outfielders a chance to throw him out at home plate then I fell behind on Mirabelli.  I didn't want to make a mistake.  It was 2-0 at the time.  I also had in the back of my mind, I obviously saw Gardner in the on-deck circle, but I didn't want to make a mistake in that situation.  I had to make some good pitches.  
 

Q.  In such a big game, did Robin's home run in the first inning make you calmer?  Did it allow you more room for error? 
 
BOBBY J. JONES:   It does, in a way, knowing that you've got two runs on the board.  It is a different game.  It's not 0-0.  But then again, you also feel like it's the first inning, and I still can't afford to make mistakes.  But it does lift a little bit off your shoulders.  I was excited.  
 

Q.  Were the chants of, "Bobby," were they the loudest that you have heard? 
 
BOBBY J. JONES:   Without a doubt.  As a pitcher out there, and I said this yesterday, that you have to try to drown that out and focus in on who the hitter is.  It was definitely tough, because it was loud, and it is probably the loudest that I have ever experienced.  But it is an awesome feeling knowing that the fans are behind you, and they are pulling for you.  
 

Q.  To have, as you said, top stuff, great command, and adrenaline, did you almost feel like you had more ways to get guys out than you usually do?  What does it feel like to have it all? 
 
BOBBY J. JONES:   I don't know that I was thinking about that.  All I knew was that I was trusting my stuff.  Me and Mike were on the same page as far as what pitches we wanted to throw in certain situations, and, you it is comforting knowing that when you have good stuff, you just trust your ability.  You don't have to make the perfect pitch.  Just trust yourself on making good pitches.  
 

Q.  Some guys with as many years in as you have, may have refused an assignment to the Minor Leagues.  You chose to go there.  How big was that for you, do you think in turning around your season? 
 
BOBBY J. JONES:   For me it was a very easy decision.  At the time I was not helping the ballclub.  After experiencing the playoffs last year and not being a part of it, with my injury, I wanted to come back in the best shape that I've ever been in and I wanted to have a great year and experience the playoffs.  Just the way I pitched, obviously, was not the way that I am capable of throwing.  I held my head high.  I went in knowing that I was better than that.  That's the only reason why I accepted it, just because I wanted to be back and be part of this and to play in the post-season.  If I was pitching like I was earlier in the year, I would not be here right now.  So I wanted to experience this, and to have a good game, and a game that I will remember for a long time.  
 

Q.  You had Bonds off-balance when you faced him. How important was it to not let him beat you?
 
BOBBY J. JONES:   I think that you have to approach every hitter like you don't want them to beat you.  They have a great ballclub over there.  I just wanted to stay away from big innings.  What I did was basically mix my pitches up, like I have to.  Make sure that the pitches are down in the zone and not leave anything out over the plate that is going to cost me in a tough situation.  I was just scorching it, moving the ball in and out.  I wanted to climb the ladder a little bit and he swung at it.  But I approached all of their guys like I had to make good, quality pitches on them.  
 

Q.  It seemed that the Mets were playing better as the Braves were playing worse.  Did you have a sense that you were going up and they were going down? 
 
BOBBY J. JONES:   I've said this all along; that we can't control what other teams do.  We control one team, and that's the New York Mets.  We've got a ballgame that we have to win and that we have to worry about.  We go about it like that.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about your run-scoring and baserunning experience, and in your career? 
 
BOBBY J. JONES:   Well, obviously, I am not the greatest hitter.  Just go up there and swing in case you hit it.  I don't know what the pitch was that I swung at.  I think it was a slider, possibly a curveball, and I saw that it was in the dirt, just had to take off running.  And Timo gets it down the line and I'm just thinking about getting to third.  I didn't know if I was going to be waved home or not, but just get to third base, and it led to a couple more runs being scored, and some good, timely hitting.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT