U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2016
Hye-Jin Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You played very well as an amateur and now you get to stay for the trophy ceremony and get an award, how does that feel?
HYE-JIN CHOI: I'm very glad that I can participate in this tournament, and I'm really happy as an amateur that I can receive an award at this time.
Q. What was your goal coming into the tournament and did you achieve that goal?
HYE-JIN CHOI: My main goal was to qualify for this tournament, and I'm glad that I was able to be here and I was happy that I was able to make it to the qualifying rounds.
Q. You've had a very busy schedule this year, playing into a number of tournaments, did you come in feeling physically good?
HYE-JIN CHOI: I didn't have any problems with any of the tournaments before.  The only problem I had was the jet lag.
Q. Just how much fun did you have and did you enjoy getting to be in the same field as legends like Se Ri Pak and In Gee Chun?
HYE-JIN CHOI: It's hard to explain, but I'm very glad that I was very glad to experience with a lot of players that I have always been watching on TV and always thought to myself that I could be playing with them while I was watching them play.
Q. This was Se Ri Pak's last U.S. Women's Open, did you get a chance to talk to her about that?  Did she give you any advice this week?
HYE-JIN CHOI: I've known Se Ri Pak for two or three years and I respect her very much, one of the most respected players for me.  I do get little instant messaging from her, just greeting me and telling me to do a good job.
Q. You have the U.S. Girl's Junior Championship and the U.S. Women's Amateur coming up shortly, will you use the experience you got from this tournament and good performance to help you nose through?
HYE-JIN CHOI: The conditions are very different from when I was playing in Korean, and I'm glad I was able to experience all these things.  When I go into the tournament, I will be at ease a whole lot more to play at those tournaments.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT