AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2020
Bertrand Perret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did you believe this day would actually come this year? Did you think it would take longer to get to this level?  
BERTRAND PERRET: I think Ons have a lot of talent. We did a great pre-season. We were expecting some result. Not as fast as now, but I think, yeah, it's a good start. So let's see.   
 Q.  Her type of play is unusual these days. How do you have to adjust the kind of training you do with her compared to other players?  
BERTRAND PERRET: I have to find some exercise with a lot of fun because don't like so much to do some drills. I always have to find some challenge. So, yes, these kind of things. A little bit more funny than with normal player.   
I let her do sometime when she want to do a dropshot, she do a dropshot, because it's her game, it's how she feel it. I have to manage this kind of talent hand.   
 Q.  Realistically what do you believe is the maximum goal?  
BERTRAND PERRET: We will see. We will see. I think she improve a lot. She's more fit. She's more fast. I think it's great things for her.   
Now we will see. We just focus on each match and don't want to think about where she can go like this. Just in the present, and we will see.   
 Q.  How do you see the Kenin match?  
BERTRAND PERRET: We will see. She lost last year against her on grass in Mallorca. We will see. She's a very good player. All player now in quarterfinal are good player. We will see. She will have a good revenge to have. Let's see.   
 Q.  When Ons is playing well, what is she doing right? When she is not playing well, what is usually going wrong?  
BERTRAND PERRET: Maybe sometimes she want to do too much, so she try to overplay. She is doing some mistake. When she's play good, it's when she's super loose, super relax, yeah. It's a question of being loose.   
 Q.  In terms of coaching a player like her, she said the key for her is finding a coach that allows her to do what she wants to do, but do it at the right times, so what has been the challenge of getting her to make the smarter decisions on court?  
BERTRAND PERRET: It's not easy. It's not easy to find this way, to try to be a little bit strict, because sometimes I ask her when she's a little bit far from the ball not to try to do a winner, like amazing shot. Try to make the ball in the middle.   
It's not easy. But I allow her to do this kind of amazing shot because it's her game. She like to try it. But I say to her, Don't try too much. You can try once, twice, but after it's always a question of percentage, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT