NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: SPURS vs WARRIORS
April 16, 2018
LaMarcus Aldridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Game 2   
Warriors 116, Spurs 101   
 Q.  How tough was it for you to fight and to be basically the main option for this team in the series and in the season?  
LaMARCUS ALDRIDGE: I wouldn't say it's tough to be the main option.  That's who I've been my whole career.  I think it's been tough offensively for us, you know, having a lack of offense out there at times.  Teams have tried to double me and take me out, and we've been smart about changing things up.   
You know, I think it's been more tough trying to maximize the talent that we have offensively, but you know, I'm just being myself and he's gave me the green light to be myself and lead these guys, and I'm trying to do it.   
 Q.  What do you think of the way Klay Thompson shot tonight?  Are you guys similar in a sense where you're stars in the league that probably don't get as much credit as they deserve, or attention?  
LaMARCUS ALDRIDGE: You know, he's a tough cover.  He's a big-time shooter.  Has a quick release.   
I thought our guys competed and you know, battled with him, and he hit some tough shots off one leg and you know had some opportunity bounces.  That's why they are who they are.  They made tough shots.  KD made tough shots and they ended up winning the game.   
 Q.  You guys probably not getting as much respect as you probably should.  
LaMARCUS ALDRIDGE: You know, I'm not worried about that.  I think all of my peers and coaches know what we've done and what everyone's done, and I think that means more to me.   
 Q.  Pop did say you guys played with a little bit more attitude and he was quite pleased with that,11 turnovers in the first half, eight steals.  Now you have two more games on your home court.  This is not over yet.  So what are you guys going to have to do to try to even the score, at least get one win?  
LaMARCUS ALDRIDGE: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, we're not going to roll over.  We've got to take the mentality that we had tonight, trying to take the fight to them.  You know, go home with that same mentality and hopefully we'll shoot the ball better from the three, and guys be feeling better.  I feel like it should be good for us going home, but we've got to take the same intensity from tonight home with us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT