NBA ALL-STAR 2018
February 17, 2018
LaMarcus Aldridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you talk about the effect from last season, a little bit of criticism coming from fans or whoever it was as far as the playoffs and you requesting a trade and all that?  Now this year you're carrying the team?  
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: Things happen.  Sometimes people have to be made uncomfortable to have to change.  So things happen.  I'm here now.  I'm playing better.  The team is doing decent this year, and that's all that matters.   
 Q.  When you look back on when your career is over with, and you're not in the moment like you are now?  
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: Just being here, being around guys that I'm kind of cool with, just being in the moment and being on this stage.  I think when it's all said and done and I look back on it, it's kind of cool.   
 Q.  Do you miss it?  
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: Yeah, for sure.  Last year not being here was kind of weird.  I had come five years in a row, so that was different for me.  But being back this year does feel good.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the new All-Star layout and how it will impact the game?  
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: It's still to be seen.  I think guys are talking about it, so it should help make it better.  I feel like anytime that you have the mixture that we have and the guys that might want to play against guys they've never played against, it's going to make the game better.  Anytime you add money to the pot, it's definitely going to motivate guys for sure.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're just in a really good place in your life after what you went through last year?  
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: In basketball or life?   
 Q.  Just everything in general.  It seems like your personal life and your basketball lives are kind of meshing and you're in a good place?  
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: I would say basketball-wise, yeah.  Yeah, it was an interesting year last year.  It wasn't ideal.  What happened, happened, and now I'm here.  I feel like I'm definitely being myself on the court.  I feel like that makes me happier off the court.  So I think definitely it's translating to me being happier for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT