NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 13, 2017
LaMarcus Aldridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We all want to know if Kawhi was a full participant in practice.
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: Next question.  That's not my question.
Q. You're finally here. What's the one thing that's been preached about how to play this team and hopefully how to beat them?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: I think every team knows that they're really good in transition, got to block the shooters and not give them open looks.  Just got to go locked in for the whole game.  They take advantage of guys falling asleep, they take advantage of guys not being ready to guard, so you just got to be ready to play defense the whole game.
Q. You guys have 51 points in the paint, that's what your average was against Houston, and that's above your season average. Do you almost have to make that sort of continue against them?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: I think the bigs definitely have to keep trying to make things happen down there.  Crashing boards, being bigs with mismatches there.  Pau [Gasol] and myself, we have to try to take advantage of that.
Q. You're obviously a huge impact player. Does how well you played in Game 6, do you think that's good, momentum-wise, in terms of starting this series?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: Yeah, for sure.  I think it's definitely going to help.  Offensively I felt great, I got my touches and my rhythm feels good.  I think everyone has got a good rhythm.  We need to play confident.
Q. What's the biggest difference in how you feel between last year versus this year?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: Just more comfortable now.  Just knowing our offense, more confident, and things that I know I can do out there for us, how I can fit into the offense.  And I think just having guys that, we kind of grind away, I think this year was a little bit tougher for us as far as we didn't just cruise the whole season, so I think that was good for us.
Q. When the ball moves like it did in Game 6, do you almost find yourself playing better because of it?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: I mean, any team is better with ball movement and I feel like the last game, Game 6, I thought the ball did move well. I thought guys were able to get to the basket easier and guys had open shots.
Q. Everyone seems to be anointing them already to move on.  Does that bother you or do you embrace that type of role?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE: I don't listen to it. I just go play game the game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT