NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
LaMarcus Aldridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are you looking forward to most this weekend?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE:   First just relaxing a little bit.   We have had a pretty tough schedule and just having some days to kind of relax. 
And just being here in the atmosphere with the guys and kind of rubbing elbows with other guys and kind of being‑‑ interacting with the fans too. 

Q.   Is there a specific player or two that you're looking forward to just talking with?   A teammate or something?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE:   Well, I always enjoy talking to (indiscernible).   He's one of those true point guards, a true leader.   Talking to him is always nice. 
Blake's funny.   Blake Griffin is funny.   When he's not jumping over cars, he's still kind of funny. 
Being here with (indiscernible), having one of my teammates is cool too. 

Q.   I'm sure you love being here with one of your Blazer teammates, but if you could pick one of these All‑Stars to be your teammate, is there anybody you would pick?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE:   Who is here?   No, I can't. 
(Laughter.)   I can't give you an answer right now.   I'm going to stick with me teammates.   Those are my guys.   So I can't pick anybody over them.

Q.   Your game has grown since you first made the All‑Star team three years ago.   Do you feel like you've grown personally?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE:   Yeah, I think so.   I definitely opened up more.   I became more a personable person a little bit, and I think I've gotten more comfortable just with everything.

Q.   Do you feel like you belong more now than you did in that first game?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE:   Yeah, I think your first one is always unsure or kind of iffy.   And my second time, you know, it was kind of like I was getting more comfortable.   And this time I definitely feel comfortable. 

Q.   Do you feel like it kind of‑‑ generally your status in the league has grown?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE:   It's grown over the years.   I think that everybody that I've seen this weekend has been saying how I've been playing on another level.   So that's been nice. 
And I think as you come to these things more and more, you talk to the guys more and more, and you become cool with them.

Q.   Did you always feel like that was going to happen?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE:   I feel like that it would.   I thought it would take time.   I definitely tried to rush it.   But I think that everything happens in good time, and now that I'm here, it feels great.

Q.   What do you mean you tried to rush it?
LAMARCUS ALDRIDGE:   Because I thought I should have made it one year earlier, but things happen and I'm just here now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT