AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v YANKEES
October 4, 2011
Todd Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Todd, how does this team compare to the '06 team that you played on? Is it better, worse? What are your thoughts? 
 TODD JONES: I think it's a little bit better. I think there's a little bit more expected out of the 2011 Tigers than there was the 2006, because in 2006 we kind of limped into the playoffs, so to speak, getting swept by the Royals and then kind of turned it on to have a chance to go to the World Series. These guys, I think, are a little bit better. I think this club is a little bit better. I'm really excited for them, because there's a lot of good guys in the clubhouse. 

 Q. Todd, the obvious comparison to your game, your pitching style, compared to Jose Valverde? 
 TODD JONES: I think we're both right-handed, but I think after that, the comparisons kind of go away. Jose has had an amazing year. He's an amazing closer. People don't really realize how hard 50 out of 50 saves is until you watched me or had a chance to go out there yourself. 
 He's a fierce competitor, and I think everybody enjoys him in the clubhouse. Everybody on the team has said nothing but great things. He's just had an amazing year. A lot of thanks could go to Benoit, too, because I imagine Joaquin makes it pretty easy for him because he doesn't have to venture out into the eighth inning too many times. 

 Q. I know it's been a few years, but when you watch a save situation like what Valverde went through last night or even a non-save situation like Sunday, do the competitive juices still -- is there still something in your mind that kind of gets fired up for something like that? 
 TODD JONES: I think it's more of a dry heave situation than it was (laughter) -- it's so funny, when you're out there and you feel like you have a little bit of control over, you feel like you're okay, you have bases to work with. Robinson Cano is really not that hot. I can get him out. But when you're watching him on TV, you feel for the guy. You just want to see him make pitches and try to get outs. 
 It's a gut-wrenching part of it being on this side of it, because as a player, I never really realized how important it was to everybody. And how big a deal these games are, because for us, we're just trying to go out there and get outs. Now that I'm removed from it, it's a big deal. We watch almost every night, listen to Rod and Mario. When you're not doing that, it's satellite radio at home. We're pretty connected. We're obviously -- there's a lot of people pulling for them. 

 Q. So what have you been doing since you left the game? 
 TODD JONES: Well, I have a son who is 17, I have a daughter who is 14, and I'm active in my church, involved doing church work at home. Volunteer at the local high school. I'm the pitching coach for the Pell City Panthers pitching coach. I'm volunteering for the team U.S.A., for the 16U National Team. I've had a chance to dabble in a lot of things but don't have to commit to anything, so it's great. 
 This is a celebration about an amazing team. I'm just super excited. Me and Michelle are super excited to be here. We want to see some champagne tonight. 

 Q. What pitcher in today's game reminds you most of yourself? 
 TODD JONES: Man, I don't know. I think everybody is so different. There's certainly a lot of guys -- I tend to think I'm kind of like Justin Verlander a little bit (laughter). Being the fact that when I'm on the video game, being him, I'm actually pretty good. I can get those outs that he can get out. 
 We're all kind of separate, just trying to get outs. That was a joke on Justin. Justin has been the most fun, to watch him evolve and everything. Everybody kind of brings something different to the table. My time was over, and hopefully I can throw a strike tonight. 

 Q. You mentioned throwing a strike tonight, we saw Kenny try to throw almost as hard as he possibly could last night. Are you going to try to match that? Do you want to see how much you have left? 
 TODD JONES: I never had a chance to do this. This is all kind of new and cool for me. I'm just going to go out there and have a little fun. Keep watching, because I got a little trick up my sleeve I'm ready for. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks for coming in, Todd. 
 TODD JONES: Thank you, guys, for having me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT