U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2000
Michael Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Michael, how much golf have you been playing? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: Actually, I just started playing. I'm busy, as you guys know. I've been
back and forth to Washington D.C., And just really have not had the opportunity to play
as, much as I normally play. I've played a lot, but have not played as much as I normally
play, but right now, I'm starting to play a little bit more. 
 
Q. I think I know what the answer is, but are you more nervous hitting a tee shot in
front of all those fans, compared to that try and sink a freethrow for an NBA
championship?
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: I haven't sank a freethrow in a long time. It's getting close, but I
still think that teeing off in front of so many people, with some great pros is a lot more
intimidating than me making a freethrow, only because it's not my profession, and I have a
lot of chinks in my armor. But it's fun. I love the competitiveness about it, and one of
these days I will feel a lot more comfortable. 
 
Q. Is it a humbling experience to play next to three great players in such a short
exhibition? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: I don't need much humbling. It's always great to play amongst good,
talented golfers. If you look at how easy it becomes to them, and I guess a lot of it has
to come from, you know, just practicing so much. Basketball seems easy to me;it's the same
for them. As a spectator and lover of the game, you know, it looks a lot easier than I'm
pretty sure it appears to be. 
 
Q. What did you do on your hook shot on the first tee? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: I hooked it. I've had a problem for some time with a closed club on
top. If you don't play golf, you won't understand, but you golf writers who know the game
will understand. I have a closed club up top and that causes my hook, you know, and until
I can correct that, which takes a lot of practice and things like that, I'm going to have
those type of shots. But I'm a good enough athlete to make compensation sometimes to get
through a round, but in pressure situations, those types of things come out. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: I was worried about the gallery more so than they were worried about
me. It was deep in the rough. I don't think I could have gotten the ball out.  
 
Q. Can you tell us a little bit about the golf course, your impression of it, being a
member here and the impact of the Women's Open? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: It's going to be a good test for the women. I think it would be a good
test of the men. If the wind kicks up, it can be really, really tough. The greens are very
subtle; it's hard to read. The rough, if you lose your ball just by driving, it's going to
be very difficult once you miss the fairway. But these women are very accurate in their
tee shots. I think they will stay in the short grass as much as possible, but it's a golf
course you can score on. You've got to be very smart and putt well and position the ball
on the greens to where you have good putts uphill and not leave yourself too many downhill
putts. But in some holes, you've just got to play for par, and a lot of holes you can play
for birdie to go at it. But it will be a good test. I'd like to see the wind kick up, just
to see how the pros adjust to the wind.  
 
Q. How about the rough? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: The rough, it's tough. You don't need wind for that to be tough. I
think getting in the rough is going to -- you have to be creative and very conservative
coming out of the rough so you have to be very smart how you play. 
 
Q. Were you aware that Maruyama, who shot a 58, he's a great big fan of yours? All of
his golf balls are 23, his bag says 23, he has a golf ball on his keychain that is 23, and
he would love to play with you some day.
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: I knew that. I'm very proud that he's taken me as a motivation piece.
I've met him once. I look forward to playing golf with him, as long as I get enough shots.
58, that's pretty good. (Laughter.) I scored 58 one time. (Smiles). 
 
Q. I was going to ask you how come you are not the new coach at North Carolina?
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: Coaching is not my bag. I don't think I have the patience to sit down
on the sidelines and yell and scream. I like to do it at home in the confines of my own
house. But I'm a fan of the University of North Carolina, you know, and I think Mad Dog is
going to do a great job. I think he will continue to maintain the intensity and the
success at North Carolina; so I feel proud that they went to a guy like that.  
 
Q. How do you define the game of golf, what it means to you?
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: Frustrating, very, very frustrating. I mean, I come from a team sport,
where if I have a bad night, I've got guys that can pick me up, where in golf, if you hit
a bad shot, you've got to play. One of the baseball players told me: "You've got to
play all your foul balls." No other chances of getting around it. It's a challenge
against yourself, and the course is going to be consistent. It's going to shoot par, and
you can fluctuate back from par back to 100-something. It's all a battle and when you
think you've got the game, you don't have your game and I think that's what drives me
nuts.  
 
Q. On this course, what would you say is the easiest hole to birdie and what would be
the toughest hole to par?
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: Depends on the winds. You know, the normal winds are coming from the
north. I think 8 would be an easy birdie for the women. I think 3 is going to be the
toughest hole out there, because of the conditions, because of the possible wind
conditions. It's a three-shot hole, no matter how you look at it. And if you get in the
rough or the sand off your tee, you've got to really, really play it smart to play your
next second shot. And the green is no easy cake, either. Anything left in the left side of
the greens rolls down into the water and the bunker, all right. It's just a great hole. I
think it's going to be a defining hole for the a lot of the ladies. 
 
Q. Switching gears a little, Eddie Jones said he wanted to talk to you about the Bulls.
What did you say to him, and also, what is your view on corn rows? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: I have not talked to Eddie Jones. I saw that in the paper and I didn't
even know he was looking to talk to me. And I'm not here to try to contribute to the
situation. That's between Eddie Jones and the Bulls. My experience with the Bulls is
totally different than what his experience would be. I'm not trying to give him any advice
in which direction to go. He probably will call; I will probably avoid his phone call,
because I hate to contribute to this process, because my opinions are my opinions and I
don't want to anyone to take it and try to utilize it for their influence. In terms of the
corn rows, if that was said, you know, I don't know, I wasn't there. I think it's
something that shouldn't have been asked or made any kind of emphasis towards. If we have
had -- if we ever had a hair code here in Chicago, Dennis broke that about 15 million
times. I don't believe in that. I think that, you know, people are going to have their own
different way of living their lives. Corn rows are part of our society now, just like
pigtails, braiding of women's hair, a long time ago. I think that's a bad criteria to
decide if you should draft a player or not have a player be part of your team. 
 
Q. Sticking with the same subject of basketball, as you know, your former team has a
lot of money to work with free agents and things like that, they have brought people in,
brought some of the big names in, why do you think, in your opinion, these guys are not
signing with Chicago? Why are they coming in, and obviously, being turned away by
something? What do you think it is?
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: It's certainly not my place to criticize what's happening here in
Chicago. I have my own opinions, and I would rather keep them, and I don't want to create
any controversy. As you know I have my own situation in Washington that I have to deal
with. And my experience here, it's been a good experience over the years. You know, why
other players come here and they couldn't or don't feel the same type of experience, you
know, or dedication, love for the city, I can't comment on it. I'm pretty sure people are
going to try to point fingers in a lot of different directions. My experience here in
Chicago in terms of the Bulls is over and done with. I'm still a fan. I still try to
support, but I still try to beat them in terms of the Washington Wizards. Whatever
opinions I have, I'd rather keep it to myself. You have guys have enough controversy. Last
thing I want to do is add to it. 
 
Q. There was a huge gallery out there, we just heard your name, "Michael,
Michael" from outside the tent. Do you ever wonder when that kind of adulation is
going to fade away? It's been a long time since you've picked up a basketball.
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: Actually, I played last night. I'm sore today. No, the adulation and
admiration from kids is always admired. I think it's truly a compliment for what I did for
15 years here in Chicago, and even before I came here. I hope that some day it does die
down to some degree where I can be. It's embarrassing to step on the tee and know that
everybody wants you to hit it 300 yards on the green with the lady pros. And I'm out of my
element to some degree, and I would love to live up to their expectations, but I'm
nervous; they can't tell. If they can, they understand. I'm always willing to please, and
I hate to be put in situations where I don't really know if I can please them somehow. But
they still cheer and they still give me inspiration to move on. And to me, I think that's
a tribute to what I've done over the years for what I've given to them, their parents. And
a lot of them, they never saw me play, but their parents talk about me quite a bit, and
that's the best comment that I can ever receive. No other trophy that I can receive can
top that, that admiration from the parents, and right down to the kids. So it will
continue for some time, but eventually when I get old and gray, it will die out, and I can
move around in Chicago and be happy, I guess. 
 
Q. If you were an NBA free agent today, would you be impressed, being flown to an
airport, being greeted by cheerleaders and a mascot, and taken out to a baseball park? And
if not, what kind of plan are you looking to draw up when you have to bring free agents to
Washington? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: Let me just speak on what I know in terms of Washington. I'm not going
to speak in terms of what the Chicago Bulls did. But I think if -- I have to let the
player see what system we have in place, you know, and what we feel could enhance their
basketball talents in their lives. Aside from that, it's their choice from that point
forward. And I don't want to mislead them. You know, I want to be honest with them about
our program and where we're trying to take this program. And then, it's your choice. You
know, it's turning into like a recruiting process. And, you know, is that the way it's
going to go from now on? Maybe, maybe not. Myself, I come from the old traditional place,
where you drafted here, you come here and you stay here, you try to make things work the
best way possible. And then if you have to be traded, then you have to be traded. But I'm
not going out and try to serenade anybody. If you want to come and play with regard to the
circumstances I've built there, all fine and good, but I'm not even going to try and
compete and persuade, you know, these kids who either accept or not accept. You know if
you step into a program that it fits you or doesn't fit you. But I don't believe in
serenading athletes and trying to persuade them to come. If the business is not right then
don't go.  
 
Q. Could you please compare for me the difference in how you've used intimidation
against your opponent in a team sport, and how your good friend, Tiger, is using it in an
individual sport? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: My intimidation came from my work ethic on the basketball court. And
contrary to what some of the coaches may have thought, I didn't calm my opponents. I
didn't take them out to dinner to try to persuade them to play against me any less than
what I would play against them. Tiger is very similar. In Tiger I can see an unbelievable
worth ethic to be the best golfer he can be, and that's intimidating enough. You know,
some people don't have that. Some people try and take the shortcuts to get to the goals
that way, or to the successes that way. And nine times out of ten, they fall short because
of the work ethic that someone else has put into that profession. That's the intimidation,
that he works hard. He doesn't get complacent at what he's achieved. I didn't get
complacent to what I've achieved. I felt like I wanted to be the best basketball player.
Whatever weaknesses you guys ever came up about my game or said about my game, I corrected
it. Tiger is the same way. I think he's -- over the years, I've heard that he can hit it
long, but he can't control his driver. Well, he's controlling his driver. And somebody
says, well, his short game is not quite as consistent. Well, his short game is consistent.
And his putter, he's aggressive the way he putts. Probably is one of the best putters on
the TOUR. That's the attitude he takes; that whatever you say are his flaws, he works on
it, to create it to be one of his strengths, and that's intimidating when a player takes
that type of approach. So I don't think he has to say anything. I think he's just got to
continue to work on it, just as I had to continue to work on it. My representation
preceded me because everybody knew I've worked hard to achieve what I've got, and you can
believe I'm going to do this tomorrow, night and the next day. 
 
Q. Se Ri Pak was supposed to play with you today and was cancelled somehow. What do you
think about that? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: I would have loved to. I got beat by everybody else. She could have,
too. I've heard great things about her. I wished I could have had an opportunity to meet
her and play with her. But I know somewhere in the future I will get a chance to meet her
and possibly play more than three holes. But it was fun to be out there with the ladies,
and it's truly a pleasure just to see how they have perfected their profession. I have
unbelievable admiration for the way they approach the game and how well they play.  
 
Q. Are you still as hooked on golf as you were? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: I am hooked on golf, but I've also come to the realization that I'm a
hack. (Laughter.) It's just that simple. But I still love the game. Believe me, I love the
Ryder Cups. I love everything about the game. I love the education of that the game
provides, the opportunity it provides for a lot of people. I would play it every single
day if I had the chance to. That's how much I still love the game. Even though I am a
hack, I still love to play.  
 
Q. Were you expecting to get mobbed like you did today? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: No. I was totally surprised. Peter didn't -- he didn't make me aware
that there was this many people out here. I knew there were going to be some clinics and
some kids out, but this is more than I ever saw at this golf club. Normally I can come out
and play 81 holes and never see anybody. This is far more people than I've ever seen on
this golf course, and a lot more kids than I ever anticipated, but that just shows the
fans have taken on the game and certainly have come out to support the cause. 
 
Q. Did you and Laura Davies have any sign action?
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: No. The game is too short. (Laughter.) But hopefully somewhere down the
road we'll meet again, as long as she gives me my shots.  
 
Q. This golf course, first U.S. Open Championship, how excited were you to find out
about the fact that they were getting the U.S. Open? And they say they didn't make any
changes to the course, what are the biggest ones you you've the? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: The rough is the only thing I've noticed that's changed. The rough, and
then they narrowed the fairways, which is, I think compliant to the USGA in the U.S. Open,
in terms of what they needed to do, but everything else is pretty much the same. I'm very
proud that they came here. I'm very proud that someone gets a chance to see this golf
course the way that I see it, as a competitive golf course. I've had some good scores here
and I've had some bad scores. And if you play it smart, you can score well; and if you
play it aggressively, then you'd better be aware that you can score some big numbers. 
 
Q. So the fact that they didn't make that many drastic changes must speak volumes for
this layout?
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: Yeah. 
 
Q. What's your best score here? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: Here? 69? Believe me, but it's hard to tell after those three holes I
just played. I do play better in certain situations. 
 
Q. You call yourself a hack with 69? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: That's three years ago when I didn't really have a job. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. With respect to the three women you played today, who are you choosing to win the
tournament? 
 
 MICHAEL JORDAN: It's hard to say. Whoever hits it straight and putts it good. I mean,
Karrie Webb is probably the favorite, but I would not rule out Juli Inkster. This is a
putter's course. If she gets that putter straight, then she can shoot some low numbers. So
I would put the emphasis on the putter. I would pick Juli right now.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT