VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 21, 2019
Caleb Peart
Kalija Lipscomb
Riley Neal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LSU-66, Vanderbilt-38
Q. Caleb, coach talked a lot about you guys trying to bring pressure. It puts the secondary in a pretty tough situation in coverage. Did you guys just not getting there. What was lacking in the past defense?
CALEB PEART: At the end of the day I think for us the plan was to be aggressive. And for us we have to execute a little bit better. The coach can dial whatever call they want to but at the end of the day it's players who got to make it come alive.
Q. Kalija, coach has talked about complimentary football. You moved the ball, you scored some points today. When the defense gives up 66, is there, do you have to be cautious of friction or anything on the team when one side is pulling a little more weight than the other?
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: Can you clarify what you mean by friction?
Q. Just the defense giving up 66 points, is that, that's not complimentary football. Offense is playing well, defense is playing poorly.
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: There's no friction. Those are our guys. We're a team. Sometimes the offense doesn't play well and the defense plays very well. Sometimes vice versa. So the goal is to bring the floor up and keep raising the ceiling. So that's what we'll do as a team.
Q. Coach talked about you guys playing with house money and understanding where you've been for the first couple of week, defensively though you gave up 138 points no matter who you're playing that's got to take it personal for you.
CALEB PEART: So I mean just to speak to that, the past three weeks we played three very good football teams. We played two great quarterbacks, two of which probably are Heisman candidates. But at the end of the day we got to take a look at the film, look at what we have done well, because I think throughout the game we have done, we have shown flashes and I think that it's really just capitalizing on that and moving forward, because things are about to turn.
Q. Do you feel like the schedule just becomes more favorable and that's why things are about to turn?
CALEB PEART: I think at the end of the day it's just about us. We got to concentrate on what we need to fix and push the needle forward.
Q. Riley, the run game opened up today, what do you think was added today that wasn't there in the first couple of games?
RILEY NEAL: I just think we had 11 guys on the same page there and Ke'Shawn's a good back and five really good guys up front, so he doesn't need a whole lot to work with, so you just give him that little sliver and he'll do the rest.
Q. Kalija, it looks like there's more chemistry in the passing game now between you guys and Riley than there was. What do you think that added?
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: (Inaudible.)
Q. How much does game experience have to do with that do you think?
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: Probably a large part if I had to guess. You can practice against each other but we play against other teams. So for Riley, I won't speak for Riley, but probably better to, it's probably more productive to see and play against other teams that aren't our players and our defense.
Q. Riley, what did you feel the offense did well today, where is it that you would have liked to have seen the team do better?
RILEY NEAL: Well, we I don't think we had any pre-snap penalties that I can think of. If we did maybe one. That's something we focused on, both sides of the ball, just kind eliminating those penalties. We had a couple turnovers, obviously that's something you need to eliminate to compete in ball games. We moved the ball decent at times and other times we weren't able to convert third downs that we would have liked to have. So it was hit or miss, there's some plays I would like to have back, but that's every game.
Q. Kalija, after a stretch like this, what did you guys learn collectively about yourselves?
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: Collectively I say we have learned that we have got heart on this team, I don't think -- well I would say there was no point during this game that some could say it got out of happened early but at no point in this game did anybody give up or look up at the scoreboard and have fear in their eyes or quit in their heart. So that's one thing.
Secondly, it's the fact that, like he said, when the defense isn't playing well, the offense has to step up, carry some more weight. Vice versa. Special teams included. Everybody has a job to do, you do your job, and you trust the man on the side of you to do their job and collectively it will come together.
Q. For any of you, is it disappointed or surprised you that LSU has so many fans here today? Does that bother you and at any point when you see that?
KALIJA LIPSCOMB: We play for us. We play for our team. We play for the fans that come. We don't control who comes to the games, we don't control how many fans come or who is watching on TV, we control how we play, we control the emotion of our team and we control who we play for. And that's us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT