HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 24, 2019
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Maybe start a year ago and then come up to that.  We're back at the spot of your first big win.   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Right.   
THE MODERATOR: Good memories here for you I'm sure.  What was it like coming back?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It was very nice to come back.  When people say, Oh, defending, I'm just trying to, you know, just kind of being like not -- I don't want to be like just so stressed because I have to play good or anything.   
Just want to enjoy it this week.  Basically, I'm glad when people remember and just remind about good things what I have done on this golf course, which is a good feeling.   
THE MODERATOR: Take us to that at moment on 18.  The great picture of Ariya over your shoulder just biting her nails.  What was that whole experience like for you?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, to me, like, you know, it's great.  It's a lot of the emotional.  It's mean a lot for us, for our family.  I just feels like to me 18 hole is not like big stress, but like I would say like last three hole is become like more and more and more stress for me.   
Yeah, so people always talking about last hole, but I feel like last three hole is just so much thing to deal with, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Seems like you're playing very consistent golf this year; was that one of your goals for the year?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel like just kind of my style of golf feels like and my personality, like really consistent.  Sometime I want to do something different.  Just like this year I been working on different things that I can get away -- just not get away, but like step out of my comfort zone a little bit more and just more relax and just enjoy it more.  Not being too, what should I say critical?   
I can get that when I'm stress or when I'm really trying so hard.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  Pia and Lynn smile all the time.  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I got to smile more, too, on the golf course and pretty much everywhere.   
THE MODERATOR: Ron mentioned you were a good luck moment for Tiger.  What was that like, the opportunity to meet him and four days later to watch his win?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I would say I don't think we bring him good luck.  He already such a great player.  Basically he don't need any luck.  You know that.  Everyone know that, right?   
Just as a golfer, to see one of the greatest in the world is nothing to compare, nothing better for sure.  I mean, when I see him on TV he give us a lot of, you know -- like he's really powerful and he give us a lot of energy.   
To meet him in person is amazing.  I feel a lot of energy like this guy is amazing; nothing else to say.   
THE MODERATOR: What was the whole experience like caddying in the par-3 and getting to see the Masters, an event like that?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, my second time at the master but first time caddying, for Kiradech, of course.  We like always like really good friends.  He's like one of our brother.  Actually, I learn that I'm not a good caddie for sure.  I forget to clean the cup and then I realize after that.  Like two hole I was like, Did I have to clean your ball?   
He's like, Yeah, you should.  Which is, you know, like that kind of thing, and then you feel like, oh, maybe caddie actually a tough job - especially to deal with me and my club.   
THE MODERATOR: Make you appreciate your caddie more?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I always very appreciate my caddie because he have to deal a lot with me.  He have to deal with me, he have to deal with stress and a lot.  Anyway, back to par-3, which was amazing.  Get to hang out with one of our brother.  You know, just Masters is one of the place that any golfer want to be there.  You can't really miss it.   
 Q.  Would you like to go back sometime and you be the one getting the award and not your sister?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, for sure in the future.  You never know.  But to get back there is always a good feeling, and to receive the award probably even better.   
THE MODERATOR: Now we're here at Wilshire.  You've had the pro-am.  How does the golf course look out there?  Looks like we're going to have a perfect week.   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, the golf course looks like is always in good shape.  You know, this golf course you have to always pay attention, think around like where you want to put the ball.  The green also pretty big slope, and just always have to be patient and pay attention to the golf course.   
THE MODERATOR: What are some of the more notable holes for you or a particular hole that stands out that you really like?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: To be honest, no.  You have to like every golf course you go and play, and just you can't really say like it doesn't fit my game or it's really fit my game.  You just have to deal with it.   
That's what I learn from golf, is just you can't just go and (indiscernible) on things or say you don't like it.  You just have to take action, whatever you have, whatever it is right now.  I think that's just more like golf game.   
THE MODERATOR: Something that's interesting here is finishing on a par-3.   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it's not a lot of golf course you finish on the par-3, and especially pretty tough par-3.   
It's pretty hard up and down around and bunkers, pretty long greens.  I mean, it's different.  Always keep people exciting feels like with the tough hole to finish.   
THE MODERATOR: And don't and you your sister spend a fair amount of time here in Los Angeles?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: In the past we used to base in L.A. so we had lots of friends and feeling like a family here in L.A., yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Finding some good restaurants around here?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Always a lot of good restaurant.  I been ate so much food and feels like I gain weight every time I come here.  Feels like Thailand.  Feels like home.  You can pretty much find everything you wanted or you can think about when you have it in Thailand.   
THE MODERATOR: What do you think you'll feel when you walk up to the first tee tomorrow as defending champion?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't know what I going to feel, but I know what I want to feel.   
THE MODERATOR: Yeah.   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Like I just want to go out and have fun, of course enjoying this week, because, you know, it's a good week.  I just want to, you know, like do what I been promising to my coach, like what we been doing and what we been working on.  Again, step off my comfort zone and do what I want to do.   
THE MODERATOR: Do you have a big goal this season for yourself?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: To be honest, I always try and set the goal, but goal this year will probably be like working on not being too critical.  I'm really, really perfectionist and become stressed a lot of, you know, golf when you play.  Just you corner be too perfectionist.   
That's what I'm working on, just being more relaxed on the golf course and just take action more than being like, Oh, why this happen to me or something like that.?   
 Q.  What are you telling yourself to stay more relaxed on the course?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Trying.  I just have to come up with something.  I just have to realize what I feel right now and just catch myself quick and say, Okay, you can't be like this.  Just focus on something else.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT