HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2019
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another pretty solid day today.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, pretty solid.  Yeah actually hit it left and right again, but, you know, trying to stay with it and be patient on the golf course.
Work out good.
Q. Is it difficult to find your are swing and rhythm?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I been working with new coach for a while, but it's just something I been working on.  It's not that easy.  You know, just kind of really close to getting there, but sometime it's going to be some off, you know.
Just what I have to do is be patient and just take whatever I have and just try and score.
Q. Yeah, how do you manage having to implement something that you're changing and working on, maybe not being as confident as you usually are, but still managing to go under par?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, well, I mean, it's just what I said:  just trying to play one shot at a time and take whatever I have, just keep moving, keep going.  I mean, everybody going to hit a bad shot.  When I hit a bad shot, just trying to close the door and just move forward.
Q. You had your first win last season.  Are you looking for other win this year?  What are your goals?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I will say everybody go out and try to win the tournament anyway, but I just want to keep what is the key for me this year.  You know, keep working on what I have to do, be patient, and commit to what I want to be on the golf course.  Just be the best I can do.
Q. Do you want to be No. 1?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, if I say no it's mean I lie, right?  But, well, of course I want to do my best.  Just I don't really focus what position I be will or what I want to be.  Just, again, I want to focus on what I am on the golf course and just do my best.
Q. Are you feeling at home on the Thai course?  Do you know this course quite well?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, it's been so many times playing on this golf course.  Also feels like growing up here, even I only the play once a year this tournament.  Always feel really warm welcome and very nice.
Q. You have a runner up finish here, too.  What will it take to win this week - for anybody?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't know.  I mean, everybody can win every week as well.  I mean, on LPGA so much competitive.  Just same:  just go out, have fun, and enjoy every moment here.  It's cool.
Q. Is it a good feeling to be leading the eight Thai players?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, a lot of people are still playing and still a lot of holes, a lot of birdie chance out there.  I don't know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT