U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 12, 2020
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Mo, talk a little bit about your round today and the conditions out there.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   So far actually I'm happy I'm playing pretty solid, a lot better than yesterday, to be honest.  Like I feel a lot better and the condition is tough out there, it's a lot softer today, I expect the greens to be softer, but the green's not very soft, yeah, so a lot of mud balls and a lot longer shot into the green.
Q. Are you surprised only two players under par and what's making it tough?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   I guess because everything is softer and to hit long irons into these greens and a lot of pin positions you can't really be aggressive and you just have to be patient out there and maybe like take like 40 or 50 foot putt and try.  Getting up-and-down around this golf course is not easy too.
Q. Every major championship has that one day where it's just a grind out there and it looks like that was today.  Are you happy with the fact that you were able to gut it out, even though you did have the one hiccup?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Well I mean I'm pretty happy with how I played today, to be honest.  And it's just like, for me it's just like I got one bad break and just one bad hole and everything's pretty solid, but I don't know, it's just like I just think like all the majors you have to be patient and just take it when you can and something like that.
Q. We spoke to May earlier about you guys playing together and you played together before in competition but never on Saturday of a major.  How different was it and did you find yourself pulling for each other or pushing each other out there?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Well first thing like last night we got a text from my friends and say, Please don't fight on the golf course.  We don't fight, but we just like kind of like complaining to each other a little bit today.  I mean, everyone had a tough day, but I still enjoy it, I enjoy playing with my sister.
Q. How far your sister hit past you?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Wow.  (Laughing.)  I would say 30 to 40 yards today.
Q. So earlier --
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   And maybe like --
Q. How much closer did you hit it than your sister?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   I definitely think I hit more greens (laughing.)  Maybe make a little bit more putts.
Q. It's expected some more rain possibly tomorrow.  So what do you need to do to get it done?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   I don't know, I guess it's going to be a tough day for everyone tomorrow when the conditions is bad, but I'm just trying to stay patient and maybe play one shot at a time and that's pretty much all I can do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT