RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2018
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you reflect on your round today?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It was nice.  I'm just happy a lot out there.  I don't get really good weather at the start, like front nine.  And just have to be patient and just hit like one shot at a time.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Yeah, it was proper and British summer weather you got at the start.  How did it change the way the course was playing today compared to when you played it in the practice rounds?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, the greens have been a little slower after a lot of rain and everything has been pretty nice still.  Yeah.   
 Q.  You had a great start at the Women's British Open last year as well.  How much did you learn from your experience last year and previous years coming into this year?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, every year is different, and you know, this year, of course, is different.  Every time I got so much experience to play on the links course, to enjoy links because we don't have a lot of tournaments to play links course, and I really enjoy it.   
 Q.  You've had a really good season so far as well.  How much confidence do you come in here with and a chance to lift one of the majors this season?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, of course, you know, it's been a good season, and I've been playing pretty solid, and I just want to keep work on what I've been doing, and just being patient with everything and just, I know it is what it is.  Just kind of play my game and just have fun out there.   
 Q.  Amy Rogers, LPGA.COM, here with Moriya Jutanugarn.  On day one of the Ricoh Women's British Open.  Starting with a 69 here.  You were out there in a little bit of the tough conditions and the rain.  How would you describe the round today?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I'm pretty happy that we find in the fairway.  It's been quite a lot of rain this week, but just trying to be patient and don't be like mad with weather on the golf course and just keep going and one shot at a time.   
 Q.  Your sister, Ariya, has talked a lot that she does not enjoy links golf.  Just by winning last week, what are your thoughts on links golf and this sort of challenge?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, links is so much different, and I think it's really tough to play on the links course.  And you have to have fun on the golf course, and I know you're going to get some bad bounce, but you're also going to get some good bounce.   
 Q.  What's your game plan now the rest of the week?  You're right there at the top of the leaderboard.  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, just, you know, stay patient the rest of the week and just have fun and enjoy everything on the links course.  You've got to live it.   
 Q.  Well, you definitely lived it today.  Nice playing.  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT