U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 2018
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We rotate.  We talking about asking each other, you about your sister, your sister about you.  So how was she last night?  It was a long day for everyone.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Everybody just been really tired.  Get lucky to only play 18 yesterday and, you know, she just go back home, eat, take shower and just go back to bed.  I mean just -- you know, you don't have that much time and she need a lot of rest, I think.
Q. Did you talk that much about the fact that she is leading the U.S. Women's Open?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm pretty sure she's pretty excited and I would say everybody in that position will get a little bit nervous but she doesn't talk a lot about that.
We just kind of like play a little bit together and then I have to get up really early today so I just say okay, bye, see you tomorrow.  I tell her that I will go watch her.
Q. You played so much golf with her, more than anyone else, seen her play so much.  Her game, with the power that she has, if you had to describe how she plays, how would you do it?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, of course, she's one of the pretty long hitters on Tour and, you know, like when she can tie everything up and could be her week, really easy because, yeah -- and especially on this golf course because we've been getting so much rain, getting wet.
So like to hit it long is pretty help and, you know, has been playing long all week.  You know, U.S. Opens always one of the really tough ones and you just have to be patient out there and I think she learned a lot from -- you know, and she do a pretty good job of that.
Q. You both won this year, you're both playing really well this year.  What has it been like both you to be having this much success?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I mean, I'll always feel really lucky to have one of my sister and one of my best friend on Tour doing the same thing, spend time together and just share a lot of things together and I think because we really closer, of course, she annoying sometime.  Kind of sister being like that.  I think it's pretty perfect job for us, yeah.
Q. How have you seen in the past U.S. Women's Open she's missed a cut a lot.  Why do you think she's doing so much better at this year's tournament?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Last year's during U.S. Open, I think she just get a little like, you know, so many things going on and she doesn't play good at that time but, you know, like I think to be a player you have to learn how to get through it and then just, you know, you start from zero every week and I mean like even you won last week it doesn't mean you're going to win this week.
Just start over again.  And I think she learn a lot from that and, you know, like I mean players never play good every week but we wish, you know, and I think she do a lot -- she do good job with like being patient and learn from that.
Q. You and your sister and Sarah Jane Smith, the only players to play in ever tournament this year.
Does that speak to how much you love this life?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, yeah.  I mean we love to keep playing and it's not like we play six week in a row, we only play like three or four weeks and then we had a week off, and like myself, I feel little guilty to just be home, I just want to come out and, you know, like I know it's tired like playing golf everyday but I still love to be here.  I really enjoy when I come and I like to work hard so like, you know, it's comfortable for us.
Q. Your sister the same way, right?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: She probably doesn't work as hard as I am but I mean, of course, she know what she have to do.  She do -- she do her own business.  I think that's neat.
Q. If she were to work harder, do you think it would help or hurt her?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, I think everyone is different.  Like I think because we had different personality looks like I'm working harder but what she's doing, she thinks -- I mean is already working hard for her.  I think it's just the bottom line is like what is enough for you and I think that's more important.
Q. If she were become No. 1 in the world again, how do you think she would handle it differently this time?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: That be great, you know.  It's just like everybody been dreaming to become world No. 1 and she have that.  After she become world No. 1 last time she just struggle after that and she doesn't play good but I mean at that time she just -- I think she's young and she doesn't really handle it that well.
I'm pretty sure this time she will do it better and I mean she's -- I think she learn a lot from last time and I think this life is about learning everyday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT