HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 22, 2018
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Mo Jutanugarn, the winner of the HUGEL-JTBC LA Open, first year of the event.
How does it feel to get can your first career win?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It's great.  You know, it's a lot of emotional and a lot of feeling.  You know, it's been time and I just been waiting for it, so...
THE MODERATOR: What was it like to be able to share that with your sister and your mom and seeing them right after you won on the 18th green?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: That was great.  Always good, the support from them.  I think they actually crying more than me.  I know they been so exciting.  Of course I been nervous, but they cry more than me.
I think my sister get a lot emotional out there, too.
THE MODERATOR: She knows how long you've been waiting.  You've been so close so many times.  When you finally hit the putt and realized you had broken through for your first win, what was going through your head?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I just keep work on what I have to do and just like be patient, and actually it's worked out pretty good this week.
THE MODERATOR: Yeah.  All right.  Questions.
Q. Wondering when you had the long wait on 17 before you could hit, is that is difficult thing to go through, or you just want to get out there and play?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, of course after bogey on 16 I want to keep going; we couldn't do that.  It's just like trying to share my focus to like something else, and then when I have to hit the ball, then I just kind of bring it back, something like that.
So I'm not going crazy on what's happen on the last hole.
Q. Did you talk it Pia and Lynn last night at all?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I talk to them this morning before -- you know, from the club house.  You know, it's help me a lot.  Just ten-minute chat, but it means a lot.
Q. What did they share that was helpful today?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, you know, I mean, I been close so many times, and today is going to be another day that is a good practice for my future.  I mean, no matter what's going to happen, it's going to be a good day for me.
Q. Watching your sister have so much success, I know you were so happy for her and you were so close, but how hard was it to wait so long to get a first victory with someone so close to you having so much success?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I think people just different.  You know, someone take longer time.  She probably doesn't take that long.  But I think we have we own way.  I have my own way to do things and she have her own way, just because different kind of person, different people.
So, I mean, always really happy when she playing good, and I'm pretty sure she say the same thing.
THE MODERATOR: For those who may not know you that well, can you describe your experience and growing up with the game, when you started, and how you got to this point?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I been playing golf -- I feel like golf is like (indiscernible)  of my life.  I been playing golf a lot.  I started since I was seven.
And actually, golf give me a lot of meaning to my life, and I just want to keep doing good all the time.  I think that's why I I want to wake up every day and do it better and better.
Q. You and your sister join Annika and her sister as the only set of sisters who have won on the LPGA.  What does it mean to be in their company?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It's mean a lot.  You know, I mean, Annika one of my favorite players as well, and when she out here she been like playing super strong.  I grow up and watch her play.
One day I just want to be out here, and now be here, it's just like mean a lot.  Yeah.
Q. When did you first spot Ariya watching you this afternoon?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I think I see her on 14 green.  Yeah.  Good thing she not too lazy of she come out and watch, so... (laughter.)
THE MODERATOR: When your sister won the reception was so great in Thailand.  People were at the airport to meet her.  When is the next time you'll be in Thailand, and what do you think that's going to be like?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I wish I was going to be, but it's going to be for a while.  I'm not going to go back to Thailand for a while.  I think they still going to be pretty exciting.  I hope they going to be exciting tonight, too.  I probably have to get like a lot of phone call and text.
Q. How will you celebrate tonight?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I fly red eye tonight to San Francisco, so probably just sleep on the plane.
Yeah, not think much.
Q. You took the lead pretty early on.  You were able to maintain it.  How difficult was that, and how much pressure did your two playing partners put on you?  Can you give your assessment of this golf course and what challenges it poses for your game?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Okay, so the first question, the first answer is, well, you know, playing with Inbee and Jin Young Ko, they're great players.  Inbee played really solid.  Jin Young also like doesn't have good start and she come back like really good.
I mean, it's show how good they are.  They just keep -- it just like keep my day pretty tough, yeah.
Q. And also about the golf course, your assessment of the golf course and what challenges it posed for your particular game.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Golf course is great this week.  I mean, it's play tough out there.  In afternoon the green getting a little more bumpy and also the wind pick up, so, you know, like just have to be patient out there.  My key is just keep it in the fairway and green this week.
Q. Is the water bottles a family tradition, or is that going to be a family tradition there?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't know.  It's LPGA things, you know.  Like they do throw water a lot.  I don't know it's this much.
Q. We heard you went zip lining a couple weeks ago.  Do you have anything else that you want to accomplish on your bucket list outside of the golf course?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I trying to, you know, like get off the golf, like get off golf when I have any golf.  If I'm home I cook a lot, because of course my mom and my sister don't cook.
When I'm in L.A. you know, just so much fun to be in this town.  You know, so I just -- a lot of things to do here.
Q. What things do you like to cook?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I do cook a lot of Thai food, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: What do you think a win does for your confidence and your game moving forward when you're in this situation again?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, you know, I been really close for a lot of times, and of course that build confident as well.
To win, it's just like I kind of break through a lot of things that I been kind of get stuck, and it just feel great.  So after, just trying to keep doing what I'm doing, and just keep (indiscernible) and start over again.
THE MODERATOR: What's next on the schedule moving forward?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: So I play next week in San Francisco, Texas, and then going back home in Orlando.  After that, start in Kingsmill.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT