HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 21, 2018
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Mo, another exciting round for you.  I'll start with the eagle on 14.  Talk to me about what you were feeling when that shot went in.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, it was great.  Been waiting for that.  I hit another shot like really good this week and hit the flag and bounced off the green.
When I make that shot my caddie is like, Oh, yeah, Mo.  You're waiting for that.
Yeah.
Q. You put yourself back in the lead again.  Just this week what's been the thing that's worked the best for you?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Today was kind of a pretty rough day for me with not a very good start, you know, and like trying to come back.  I just try to play my game and be patient out there I think is the key.
Q. You been getting used to playing in the final group, I guess.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, but every time is always different.  Every time is always learning, too.
Q. When you start to play this well in a tournament, do you see a lot of the buzz back home or do you pay attention to that?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I try to not really pay attention; you know, like want to focus on myself.  I know there is a lot of people cheering and stuff like that.
But also like just try and do my best and just go out and play my game every day.
Q. People talk about how popular Koreatown is here.  Also Thaitown is really popular.  Have you had a chance to go by there?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Oh, yeah, of course.  Both.  Like I actually go to Thaitown and Koreatown.  It's not so far from where I stay this week and have so much fun, you know.
Q. Typically when either you or your sister is in the lead, the other will go and watch once they finish their round.  Do you think you'll see May out there again following you tomorrow?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, you know, I will try and ask her tonight if she want to do that.  I don't know.  If she's not too lazy she probably going to come out.
Q. I hope she's out there because it's going to be a fun day.  Good luck tomorrow.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT