HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 20, 2018
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I just have to ask you right off the bat, how much fun was that today to shoot 66?  You hit 16 greens.  Must have seemed so easy out there for you.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, it's not easy, but, you know, just be a lot of patient today.  I think it's work out pretty good.
You know, like try to give myself a chance for birdie.
Q. Why do you like this golf course so much and why has it clicked with your golf game?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't know.  I just try to hit fairway and green, and I think it's the key for this week.
Yeah, that's what I am trying to do.
Q. I watched your sister, Ariya, play today.  She ended up even par; you're spotting her eight spots going into the weekend.  What do you envision happening for both of you this weekend?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: That's sounds pretty good for me.  I'm trying to beat her all the time.
Yeah, I think she's in a pretty good position for the weekend.  Hopefully she plays better (indiscernible) getting pretty good score.
Q. You built a one-shot lead here in L.A.  How have you felt through two rounds, and what's been the key for you?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I think the key for this week is just stay away from the bunker, you know, fairway and green.  Yeah, that's what I try to do.
Q. Did you hit a lot of greens today?  Was that what you would say was the key to your big round?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Someone say I hit 16 greens today, so, you know, it sounds pretty good.  I think to give myself a chance for birdie, I think that worked out pretty good.
Q. Did you like this golf course the first time you saw it?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, it's a lot of tricky holes, like a lot of tricky greens.  Some of the greens like really small and some of the greens is like really big.
So I just try to be patient.  Yeah, stay away from bunker and try and keep it in the fairway and green.
Q. What were the emotions like when you went through the stretch of three consecutive birdies?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, the birdie on 3 I don't really expect to make it.  I just kind of like -- (indiscernible) just kind of hit the putt.  Sometime it's work out that way.  I mean, it's pretty good, three birdies in a row, and feel pretty solid today.
Q. You've been to L.A. before this week, right, quite a few times?  What are the some touristy things that you've done?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I mean, L.A. is so much fun.  You know, be in L.A. before Phoenix and after ANA, so just spend time with friends and family here.
It's just so much fun.  I went to like zip line; I went to have good food.  It's just a lot of things to do in L.A.
Q. Where did you zip line?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah.  Close to -- they call Mountain High.
Q. Was that your first time zip lining?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, first time.  I'm like a little (wind interference) things pretty dangerous, but my mom a little freak out.  But it's fun to me, so I just want to do something.
Q. Fun, not scary?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: No, no.  I love it.
Q. Was that when your sister was at the Masters?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, because she's in the Masters, so it's good chance for me to do it.
Otherwise she would've been too lazy and don't wanting to anywhere.
I was like, Oh, yes.  Good.
Q. What have you been working with Pia and Lynn most recently on?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, a lot of things, you know.  It's more like -- I think I working about myself.  You know, it's just being good -- like okay, accept a good enough shot.  That's what I been working very hard.
Q. Having a lead in the tournament, what do you hope -- anything to do differently or how do you hope you'll play with the lead and what's it like playing with the lead in a tournament?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, to me, like it's just like two solid day for me.  Just hopefully I keep hitting the ball solid.  Just want to keep playing my game.  If it's my time, then it'll turn out good.
But, yeah, just keep playing my game and do what I'm doing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT