HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 24, 2018
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a day it's been for the Jutanugarn sisters.  Both of you shot a 65.  That must be some feeling.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Really?  I mean, like I heard really loud and like all the fans cheering like in front of me, so hopefully she make the putt.  But I didn't know she shot 65.  That's great.
Q. Your day was pretty spectacular as well.  What was good for out there on the golf course?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It was nice.  I really enjoy my game today and just trying to keep playing, like just doing what I want to do, and it's work out pretty good.
Q. How good is it to play in front of the home crowds?  So much support out there.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, it's a lot of support and it feels nice to have people cheering you like really loud, but also it's like great to shoot a couple under today.
Q. More than a couple.  Your mom and I think your brother and other sister were out in the crowd.  Were they loud out there?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I saw them one time I make bogey, and they gone.  I haven't seen them all day after that.
Q. So tell them to stay away?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Maybe just in the clubhouse.
Q. Great 7-under, 65 today.  Hole-out eagle from the fairway on 14.  You said you heard the crowd.  Did you know it went in?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I saw it.  It's just one bounce in and out.  It's pretty good miss.  (Laughter.)
Q. You and your sister are playing so well today.  Both with 65s.  The Korda sisters playing well today.  What is it with this course and sisters, do you think?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't know.  It's probably a sister day here.  You know, it's a pretty good day for me.
Q. I think it was more than a pretty good day for you.  Anyone would take a 65, I am sure.  What does it feel like for you to play here in front of your home crowd and especially to play so well?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, it's nice.  I got a lot of welcome, like a really warm welcome this week.  You know, crowd just has a lot of really good feedback.  They just come to cheer not just two of us, but everybody.
Q. There is a chance we could have Jutanugarn/Jutanugarn in the final group tomorrow.  What would that be like?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: That would be great.  Probably going to be a little weird playing with your sister in the final round, but if that happen, it would be cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT