U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 11, 2020
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Moriya, how would you assess your round today?
 MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Well, I just kind of like -- I was just trying to be patient and hitting just fairways and greens.  I didn't really hit it solid like on the back nine, but tried to put myself in play.
 Q. Do you feel like you're in a good position to make a run this weekend?  Do you like where you're at going into the weekend?
 MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah, I'm pretty happy with how I've played for the first two rounds.  I mean, it's just about being patient out there and just waiting for my time when you can be aggressive and when you just have to play for a par.  That's pretty much it.
 Q. Is that kind of the biggest thing for you in major championships is just being patient knowing that you have to wait for your opportunities and then strike?
 MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah, I think that's very important to be on the golf course, especially like the U.S. Open.  Everyone knows the golf courses are long and also like probably the setup is like the hardest.  It really tests your patience out there.
 Q. What is one thing that if you improve upon this weekend it will help you make a run up the leaderboard?
 MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Pretty much everything.  I mean, I wish I hit it a little more solid.  Pretty much it's just like you have to see where to miss and then you're able to get up-and-down, and that's pretty important, too.
 Q. When you look back on your sister winning this championship before, if you can look back on that moment and recall some of the memories from it, is there anything that stands out from it that could inspire you to climb the leaderboard this weekend?
 MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Of course, yeah.  Like everyone wants to play good every week, and I just -- yeah, of course to win a major, especially a first major for me, it would be big.  But I just want to focus on what I have to do and just be present and just -- because out there you can't really be like so aggressive and you just have to play smart.
 Q. Have you guys ever talked about her win since the fact of her winning?
 MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Not really.  Yeah, we don't really talk about golf.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT