BLUE BAY LPGA
November 10, 2017
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  On 18, you had a great birdie.  How was your golf today?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, you know, it's been pretty solid so far this week.  It just helps to be patient a lot on this golf course.  Some lucky bounce and just, it's golf.   
I'm really enjoying this week so far.   
 Q.  In Malaysia, I asked you about injury.  How is your left knee now?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It's much better.  Malaysia is my first week that I just come back from injury.  It's getting much better so far.  It just takes time but it keeps better every day.   
Just in Malaysia, it was kind of like I'm getting pretty excited, coming back to play.  I feel like I've been off for five weeks, so it's just like I kind of have to get going.  After that, I feel much better.   
 Q.  You played with your sister for three days.  How was it?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: This is probably a lot than other weeks that we play together.  We usually play practice rounds together, like only a day or two days.  So I've been playing the first three now with my sister.  It's pretty fun.  I always enjoy playing with her, but getting sick of her sometimes, as well (laughing).   
 Q.  You are 6-under right now, good position.  What is your expectation for tomorrow?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, just want to go out and enjoy my game tomorrow, enjoy everything here on the golf course.  I mean, what I said earlier, just have to be a lot patient on this golf course.  Just want to play my game and be patient tomorrow.   
 Q.  You've had a bunch of top 5s this year.  How have you been able to keep staying patient, waiting for that first win?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I think golf is about patience.  Sometimes it can be everything you want.  So that's what I say, when the time comes, it will come.  But I really trust it's going to come.  I don't know when it's going to be, but you know, as long as I trust what I'm doing and keep going and play solid, I think is a pretty good way.   
 Q.  You were one of the only players to shoot under par today.  Does that give you some confidence going into the final round tomorrow?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, you know, I mean playing final round is always different.  I mean like today, probably like a lot of lucky bounce, a lot of good shots, a lot of good putts, just kind of everything together.  A lot of the girls out here can shoot under par, everybody can do.  It just depends if it's your good day or not.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT