THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2017
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you're in a pretty good position here.  How are you feeling after two rounds?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It's good.  You know, it's nice to always shoot under par in a major event.  I played pretty solid today, like couldn't make a little more putts, but still pretty good round.   
 Q.  Were the course conditions similar to yesterday or a little different?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Course still pretty soft.  It's pretty similar for like yesterday, but there's nothing much different today.   
 Q.  You had your best finish in a major here a few years ago.  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Really?   
 Q.  Yeah.  What do you like about it around here?  You're playing really well again this week.  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I don't remember that I had my best major finish here, but whoa, that sounds pretty good.  I just want to keep like playing my game the whole week and just really -- the only thing is I really want to enjoy on the course.   
 Q.  The tee times you've had, do you feel they've been an advantage since you didn't have to come out on the first day and you kept fresh and sort of got consistent weather yesterday afternoon and this morning?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I think it's pretty lucky I didn't have to come over to the golf course and be waiting on and off.  But I mean, we've been getting ready at the hotel, so I'm just like trying to get ready every one hour.  It's just different, like I don't have to be on and off the golf course, but trying to get ready at the hotel.   
Yesterday it's nice.  Everybody had really good weather, and it was just a really nice day.   
 Q.  Can you talk about you and your sister?  Is it a rivalry, and because she's won a major, does that make you want to win one even more?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, yeah, she won a major last year.  That's her really first major.  And of course we really are really for her.  I'm really happy for her.  Well, it's just like I try to keep working on my game, keep improve whatever I can.  It's just like my big goal, as I always say, I want to win my first tournament.  But I don't really like have to push -- like I don't want to be really pushy, like it has to be next week, next month.  It's just like I'm trying to put myself in a good position, and when it's my time, probably it will turn out good.   
 Q.  Is it a different mindset being a 54-hole tournament, having a target on your back for one day instead of two?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, every day people wake up they always feel different.  It won't be the same, but I mean, I just want to keep doing what I want to do, just you know, like try to play my game and focus on what I can do and what I can -- you know, what is under my control.  I think that's very important for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You've had a very good season, and you were in one of the final groups at Kingsbarns, at the British.  Do you think that will give you a good experience what it might be like tomorrow?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, playing in the final group you always get experience, even British Open or other tournament.  But you know, it's about learning every time I play in the final group.   
 Q.  What do you remember about when May won the major, the celebration?  What do you remember from that?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I remember I finished 18 and then just run straight away to the golf course and watch my sister play the last few holes.  It's such a really, really good match.  Like I remember she played with Mirim Lee, and Mirim missed it left and then made a great par, and just like really, really stress there.  Even watching outside the ropes, it's just a lot of -- a lot of remember like in the golf course, and it's just so many, so many things going on.  Like I feel nervous, I feel exciting, I feel -- I kind of feel everything like player feeling things.  It's great.   
 Q.  Do you think it would be easier if it's you that was playing, less stressful?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: To be honest, it probably doesn't feel that bad if I'm playing on the golf course than watching my sister play, yeah.   
 Q.  Will you ask your sister for some advice or not really?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, we always share everything, like we talk about pretty much everything.  But we don't really talk about golf as much when we're off the golf course.   
 Q.  Have you seen her score today?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: No, I have no idea.  I haven't seen her yet today.   
 Q.  Is she struggling with the shoulder problem?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't know.  I think her shoulder is fine.  She seems pretty healthy right now.  You know, I think it's just like life, like all athletes can go up and down, and when you go down, it's always going to go even higher.  When it's time, it's time.   
 Q.  She's 9-over, so the exact opposite of your score.  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Wow.   
 Q.  Do you watch tennis?  Do you watch the Williams sisters?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Not a lot, no.  I'm not really big fan of tennis.  But we actually play.  Yeah, we play tennis a little bit, but we don't really watch it.   
 Q.  Do you think it's possible that you can see yourself with the trophy tomorrow?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I just want to do my best and just play my game and don't worry about anything, just do anything under my control, and it should turn out good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT