CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 2, 2017
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 14-under through three rounds.  How are you feeling?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I was feeling great.  You know, I have been hitting solid and put myself in a lot of really good chance for birdie.
Make some, miss some, but it's still pretty solid round.  Yeah.
Q. Seemed like you were on fire in the front nine today.  What were going so well for you?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Just I put myself in pretty good position.  Like just kind of be patient and see where I should put it on the green.  You know, then just starting to like make the putt, like the ball just drop.
Back nine just a little rush, a little rough sometimes.  Also I still hit a good shot, but sometime it doesn't really go like what I want.
But still, I think I hit it pretty good.
Q. You made a birdie on 18 to end your day.  What kind of momentum will that bring for tomorrow?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, it's great, you know, like to see the ball just starting to drop into the hole.  Tomorrow is going to be a new day, so I don't know what is going to happen.
It could be good, could be okay, but just try to play my game and have fun on the course.  That's pretty much my big goal tomorrow.
Q. How long was the putt on 18?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Not very good with that.  I would go like 30 something.
Q. Okay.  You have your Vision 54 team here.  How have they helped you this week?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, they're come and they here with us since Tuesday to Thursday, so it's been really nice.  Always really nice to see them.  Always something new.  Like you always learn every day.
We been talking and it's pretty good talk, and it just kind of like narrow my focus a little, you know, like closer, like tight it up a little bit.  I think it's pretty good work.
Q. Looks like you may be in the final group tomorrow.  Is your sister going to be watching, and does it make you nervous at all being in the last group?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, you know, I play last group few time this year.  Every time I always learn something new.  I mean, tomorrow is going to be really good experience also.
You know, I can't say like I don't like it at all.  It's always, always really nice to play in the last group.  I just want to -- it's going to be another thing that I will learn tomorrow.
Q. Is your sister going to watch?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't know.  She's back in Thailand right now.  I don't know if she going to watch.  Maybe she going to text me in the morning.
I don't know.
Q. Wish you luck?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Always.  Like she always, like Hey, good luck, and she be gone for like few days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT