RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2017
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your scores keep getting better every day.  You must be delighted with that round today?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, you know, I played well and I'm pretty happy with what I'm doing on the course.  You know, just keep doing what I'm doing tomorrow and just have fun on the course.   
 Q.  How much more comfortable do you feel with the course here day by day and how it plays in the changing weather conditions?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, it's just like typical Scotland weather, which you can't really be confident about.  It's on a really good golf course and very, very pretty, so I enjoy like looking around.  It keeps me pretty calm and happy on the course.   
 Q.  You've seen what winning a major can do, and you've sort of experienced it with your sister last year.  How much do you believe that this is your time?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, there's a lot of good players out here and I'll just try to do my best tomorrow and play my game and keep enjoying on the course.   
 Q.  In golf it's never over until it's over, and there's a little bit of a gap at the top, but do you believe that there's all to play for tomorrow?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, golf, you know, anything can happen.  I just keep doing my job as best I can, and just have a good round tomorrow.   
 Q.  Your sister missed the cut but knows what it's like to win one of these.  What's she said to you ahead of the weekend here at the Women's British Open?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Not much.  She said, "I'm not going course today.  Just going to enjoy St. Andrews."  We're not really talking about golf much outside the golf course.   
 Q.  But you've seen firsthand what it's like to win one of these.  It must make you a little bit jealous?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, well, just you know, I don't want to really do anything, just kind of like playing my game.  Like be myself on the golf course and just try to enjoy.   
 Q.  And you'd like links golf, don't you?  I'm going back to 2008 in Birkdale.  Tell us what happened there.  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: 2008 is like my really first time playing links course I think.  I mean, I don't really know anything much about links course at that time.  I'm just trying to keep the ball low and keep it on the fairway pretty much.   
 Q.  And let's not forget that you beat Jordan Spieth.  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, to be honest -- yeah, we were playing in the same group.  He's great.  He's a great boy to play with.  We was like one boy and one girl.  I mean, like I really enjoy playing with him.  I think he got hurt or something on Sunday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT