KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2017
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you sum up the day?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Talking about today?  Well, I hit more fairway today.  Just give me a better chance to, you know, like hit it on the green and more chance for birdie.  Doesn't really hit it solid off the tee since yesterday.  But trying to make sure I just hit something and leave it in the fairway.  Just make sure everything is in play.   
 Q.  You've been playing really well the last few weeks, and you have a great stretch going on.  Was there something in particular that clicked for you to help you?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it's just more like the hard work is kind of show up.  I've been working on a lot of things and it probably just kind of everything put it together.   
 Q.  Are you in a different frame of mind this year, also, than maybe you have been in the past, and how so?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, I play, sometimes it helps to maybe think a different way.  I mean, also, I'm trying to work on a lot of things like how I think on the golf course or like how I be on the golf course and enjoy with it, even it's a good or bad day.  That's kind of getting better this year since I work on with Pia  last year.   
 Q.  You caddied in the junior here on the other course, but what do you remember about that week?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, it's great to come back here and a lot of people kind of look, like, hey, you're back.  It was nice, when I came last time, I was a caddie and this time I was a player.  Of course it feels better.  You know, like golf course is always great.  Even we play on a different course, but people here is always like really nice and we had a really warm welcome for them.   
 Q.  How much has your sister's success affected you, or motivated you, or maybe even helped you?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, like we been sharing a lot of things together.  Even I would say like pretty much everything.  I think it's helped because when you're in a good mood playing golf, and then you're always talking about positive things, which is good for people that's like really close to each other.   
So when you hear a lot of good things, it actually brings you in a good position.   
 Q.  Randy wrote an interesting piece about you throwing your clubs during practice.  How has that helped?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It's helped a lot.  We're trying to figure out what is the best exercise I can get a feeling of the swing, which is I try so many things, but I think that one is work out the best.  Just give me a good feeling of the freedom of the swing, which is good.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're ready to win an event?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, you know, I mean like winning a first event, of course, is a pretty big deal for me because I've been -- it's like, you know, like it's my big goal, and of course, trying to work on it.  If I just trying to play, just trying to keep playing solid, being really positive on the golf course, and I think one of these days, it will be coming probably.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT