SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 2, 2017
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Still in search of your first win, but I think there's something different this week.  You're playing here and your sister is not.  She's most likely going to take the No. 1 world ranking.  How much different is your week when she's not around.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, I have fun with my friends.  It's just feel different, like I have to be in a room by myself, but, you know, sometimes good to take off (indiscernible).
Q. Sisters don't fight.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: A little bit sometimes.  (Laughter.)
Q. This course is one that the tour has played and you've played it before, but this year the greens are so much smoother.  Is that something you felt you had to take advantage of this morning?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, you know, I think we had a pretty good advantage because, you know, like playing this morning is not too windy.  Wind can make a different on this golf course.  The greens can be really bumpy in the afternoon.
We got really lucky playing in the morning.
Q. If your sister does take over the No. 1 spot - So Yeon Ryu would have to finish third or better for that not to happen - and you were able to walk out of here with your first win, what would that conversation be like Sunday night between you two?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I think she will call me and say, Hey, congrat.  You know, I will be happy if she go up to No. 1.
But anyway, on So Yeon, always playing great.  She's really solid and great player.
Q. How big of news would that be at home?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: That would be pretty big news, you know.  We are really excited for it.
Q. Nice days' work.  Make a lot of birdies today?  Obviously.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, six birdie today.
Q. No bogeys?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: No.
Q. What was the key to it?  Make any long putts today?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Not quite long.  I think the longest like 25 feet may be.
Q. That's long putt.  It would be for me.  How did the golf course set up for you today?  Why was it so easy to score on today?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, you know, the golf course is in really good shape.  I know we get pretty rain like this early -- I mean early this week, but the golf course is not like really wet at all.
It's in really good shape.  I think I because we play this morning, so the wind doesn't really pick up yet and the greens still not too bumpy, yeah.
Q. How important is it to get off to a fast start, particularly in a three-day tournament like this?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It was nice.  It just makes the week easier, you know, just like more extra day for like practice and just relax.  It was nice.  I really like it.
Q. You've never won an LPGA tournament, but you've had some success.  Do you think about that very much, or is it easier for you to just focus day to day on what you have to do?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I just want to go out on the golf course and enjoy it, play my game.  Of course like everybody want to win the first tournament and it's still my big goal, but I just want to focus what I have to do out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT