ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2017
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Very long day but you finish at 5-under par.  How do you feel?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It was great.  I hit it solid out there.  Everything is pretty tough out there today.  Like the greens get a little bit more firm today and they are obviously quite long.  Just trying to put myself in a good position and play for the weekend.   
 Q.  You are in a good position right now.  Does that change the way you're looking at the weekend?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I still have to try to like be patient out there, and you know, just have fun over the weekend.   
 Q.  You had a string of very good results so far this year.  What's working?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I would say it's just like pretty much everything working together.  Like trying to be relaxed out there and enjoy every time I'm going to play golf and I think that's all I focus about.   
 Q.  It seems like you're getting close to maybe a win, at least somewhere down the line, do you and Ariya ever talk?  Is she telling you what it's like and how to get there?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, the only thing that they say, if we play final round together, in the last group, she going to try to beat me and I say I'm going to try to beat her.   
 Q.  So no holding back at all?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: No.  Just, you know, I'm pretty happy with how I play, pretty solid.  And try to get closer and just keep knocking on the door and I think one day it will work out pretty good.  Just try to keep playing solid.   
 Q.  Did you do something over the off-season that's really been paying off for you?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Nothing much like off-season.  We just like rest a lot.  Like doing sponsor stuff a lot.  But you know, like we come back and work on Vision 54 and it just like continue working on what I used to be, what I used to working on.  It's not like nothing new.   
 Q.  Just getting comfortable?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: One thing I believe, it's just like being an athlete or like playing professional golf, it just like, I have to trust what I'm doing and keep like doing over it and one day it will show up.  So hopefully it show up soon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT