UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 22, 2016
Pornanong Phatlum
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys were down for most of the match but you were able to fight back and get a halve.  How important was that for you guys?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, competing with the U.S. is pretty big deal, and they played great.  They had a strong mental, and they had strong games.
Pornanong played great today.  I didn't really help.  I had some chances.  I didn't hit it good today, but she played great.
Q. Pornanong, what are your thoughts on the match?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: I just tried to play the best, and yeah, yesterday I played very good, today, and just wanted to fight back, and yeah.
Q. You guys are in a pretty good position going into tomorrow with one round in pool play left.  What's the key going to be for tomorrow for you guys to make it to singles on Sunday?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, to me of course we need a point to make it on Sunday.  I still really trust everybody on my team.  I mean, everybody in my team can make a couple birdies for something to get the point, and I think that the important thing is to just play our games and maybe a little aggressive and just, you know, like trying to go for it and don't be like too shy, like don't be too -- I mean, just comfortable playing the golf course and just have fun.
Q. How about the support you guys have had from the Team Thailand fans?  Seems like there's been a ton of them following you guys the whole week.  What's that been like?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It means a lot.  We don't really see a lot of Thai people like that around.  I think Chicago is a pretty big town and a lot of Thai people, and they know that we come here, and they really come for us.  I'm really happy that they come out and cheer.
Q. Do you guys think that it will be the same pairings tomorrow, switch it up or keep rolling with what's been working pretty well so far?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, we have pretty good teamwork.  Either my sister with Porani or two of us, but I think we're just going to still go back and talk and decide what it's going to be tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT