UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 20, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
Pornanong Phatlum
Moriya Jutanugarn
Porani Chutichai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KRAIG KANN: Good afternoon, everybody.  Welcome back once again to the media center here at the 2016 UL International Crown at Merit Club.  Great to have in here Team Thailand.  Our last press conference to set you up for the matches that begin tomorrow.  They are making their second appearance at the UL International Crown.  Porani Chutichai is down on the far left, Moriya Jutanugarn, Ariya Jutanugarn and Pornanong Phatlum.  Thank you for spending time with us.  Let me start with some easy questions about your practice sessions over the last couple of days.  What do you think about Merit Club?  We'll start with you, Mo.   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, it's a great golf course.  We played a little windy out there today.  The course is set up a little long, but I think we can handle it.  Yeah, it's a great golf course.   
The greens are growing really good.  I really like it.   
KRAIG KANN: What about you, Ariya, do you like this golf course?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I like the course.  To me the course is pretty wide.  That's why I like it.  It's in great condition, so really challenging, like some par-3s and some long par-4s.  I like it.   
KRAIG KANN: Pornanong, you're going to represent your country in the Olympics and now you get to play in this, as well.  What are your thoughts about this week and being a part of Team Thailand?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM: Well, this week I'm very happy to be here.  The relationships are very good, and it's fun.  I hope that I'm going to play well.   
KRAIG KANN: Porani, what are your thoughts about being here with Team Thailand?   
PORANI CHUTICHAI: I feel happy because this doesn't seem like a tournament.  It's like getting together.  It's a very good experience.   
KRAIG KANN: Moriya and Ariya, most fans that follow the LPGA and follow women's golf are now quite familiar with the both of you.  You've played in this event before, and you're having great success on the LPGA.  What does this event get you excited about?  What is fun about this UL International Crown?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, for me we played last time two years ago, and we're looking forward to it.  You know, we have been waiting for like two years to get another International Crown, and we're so excited for it.   
I think my team is ready.  I think we have a good relationship, good team.  I think we're going to be solid out there, and we're happy to be here again.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, it's really exciting to especially represent Thailand.  We played like two years ago, also, and it's great coming here.  The four of us are going to be a great team and good performance.   
KRAIG KANN: Ariya, you've played really well for the summer, three wins on the LPGA in the month of May.  You were in a playoff last week.  You probably come here playing as well as any player in the entire competition.  Are you excited about the way you're playing in this event, getting ready for tomorrow?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I've been really excited, like not only from last week but especially this year and this event.  Really looking forward to it, and can't wait for tomorrow.   
KRAIG KANN: How are you a different player than you were two years ago?  How much better are you, more prepared for something like this?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually the last time at the UL International Crown I had just come back from surgery, so I played not very good, so my sister helped me a lot.  But this time I'm getting a lot more confident, so I hope I can help my team a little bit.   
KRAIG KANN: Pornanong, obviously you've had great success on the LPGA.  Playing alongside the Jutanugarn sisters, that's got to be fun for you.  But they're not playing together tomorrow, and everybody thought they would.  What don't we know right now?  What is this all about?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM: Well, we was practice together like two days ago, and yesterday, too.  I'm going to play with Moriya.  We practiced together, and we think we can go along together real well.  We think that we're going to be a very good team together.   
KRAIG KANN: This event you all open up against Japan tomorrow.  You're smiling, Mo.   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I like Japan.  I like them.   
KRAIG KANN: The importance in this event to get to Sunday.  You have to qualify to get to Sunday.  Team Thailand made it to Sunday the last time.  What's the most important thing that needs to happen for you all to play well to get to Sunday, Moriya?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Most important thing?  I think my sister already said that we're going to win.  Most important thing in a team event is how we get along together and how they're -- let's say I play with Pornanong, how we get along good.  It's just more like communicate together and how do we play in the golf course.  I'm pretty sure I really trust everybody in my team.  Everybody plays good.  Everybody is solid.   
I don't think we had a problem with that.  And the other thing, just like communicate and get along good and just have fun out there.   
KRAIG KANN: Get along good, you've said that you and your sister fight a lot.   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, that's why we split up.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: So tomorrow we're going to be fine.   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: No fight tomorrow, so mom don't get too headache.   
KRAIG KANN: Ariya, I'm not going to let you get off this stage.  You've done this a few times.  You know what's coming.  For anybody that wasn't following this over the last month or so, Ariya Jutanugarn has said that Team Thailand will win the UL International Crown.  She said that in Seattle and she said it again recently.  Do you still feel great?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I say we're going to win because I know I have good teammates.  I have Pornanong, my sister, and Porani, so that's why I say that.  I think tomorrow is going to be good.  The only thing we have to do is we really want to have fun, and we know we're going to have the best performance when we have fun.   
KRAIG KANN: You all are in Pool B, the United States, England and Japan.  You open with Japan.  We will see you in the morning tomorrow.  Congratulations on qualifying for the UL International Crown and the very best of luck.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT