U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2016
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Windy conditions and you still shot a good score, how did you do it?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, it windy out there, I just try to be patient, and it just test my patience out there.  And I think everything is pretty solid today and that's why I stayed just patient around.   
 Q.  Was it more your irons that were good or what was the best part of the game today?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: There's nothing like I hit it really, really good, I just try to be patient, put my ball in as good position as I can play.  Try to hit a lot of fairways and greens, and test my patience about putting.  I had a lot of really long putt today.  But just try to get two-putt and walk off the green with par.  When I have a chance to be aggressive, then I try to be aggressive.   
 Q.  You managed to avoid bogeys.  How big was that for your confidence as the round went on?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I feel good with no bogey today.  It's always great to have no bogey, and especially on -- like on this course.  It's actually meaning a lot, because it's hard to find some birdie out there.  But you have to be a lot of patient and that's why I feel like -- you can get be aggressive sometimes, but you just have to wait.   
 Q.  Do you pay attention to what your sister, when she's playing in the morning wave, what she's done?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I actually didn't see her.  I see the score a little bit and I see like on the putting green they show her like the -- on the TV.  So I see she is in the rough or something like that, and she try to get out.  Anyway, I don't get a chance to talk to her yet.  And I'm not sure what she finished, but I think she'll probably be fine.   
 Q.  Is there any competition daily between the two of you?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: We usually a little bit.  Not this week, we didn't have any deal for it.  But we always had it, like sometime we try to get a good shot and then whoever lost just pay for dinner or something like that, just to have fun.   
 Q.  Your sister's really good playing lately, do you take some confidence from that, too, does that help you think you can do a similar thing?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, she go through a lot of things, you know, like from when she play bad and now she play better.  And I learn something from her, like she gets stronger, she has more mature.  She also like inspire me something.  If she can win, why I can't?  Then I just work harder and we talking about what we should do.  We always like share.   
 Q.  It's good to have somebody to be that close to out on this Tour, right?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, yeah.  Someone asked me who is my closest friend, and I would say my sister.  She's like everything.  She's friend.  She's my youngest sister.  She act like mom sometimes.  She's like, hey, Mo, you have to do this.  But anyway, that's the younger sister, she always act like that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT