LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 16, 2015
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was it like playing with your sister out there?  I know that was pretty exciting.  She says you copied her; you say she copied you, outfit-wise, too.  What was that like?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: You know what's funny is like on Tuesday, we live like maybe 30 minutes apart, and we got there, same shirt.  And Wednesday, we got the same shirt again.  Is that funny -- and then we got the same shirt again today.  Kind of like maybe just blue for Friday.   
 Q.  And this was the first time you've ever played together in an LPGA event, besides practice rounds, obviously?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, just feels like a practice round, but I was like so excited that I see the pairings last night.  I was like, oh, God, I'm going to play with her.  But we had a lot of fun, and it just feels like the first time we have paired together after turning pro.   
 Q.  Did you have a bet on who was going to beat each other?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: We are always trying to beat each other all the time.  Yeah, like she make birdie, birdie, like first two holes, and I was like, wow, that's pretty hot.  And then I just make birdie, par, birdie.  I was like, all right, let's see how it's going.   
 Q.  You had a good round of your own out there.  Were you pretty pleased with getting back into contention after today?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I had a solid game today, like front nine, and back nine, starting miss a couple putts, but I give myself a chance, a pretty good chance.  Just trying to look for the weekend and keep put myself in a good position.   
 Q.  When someone shoots 62, can you be more aggressive the next day?  Is there kind of nothing to lose at that point when you see someone that high up on the leaderboard already after one round?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, like she was so hot, and I would say she -- it's pretty aggressive.  I would love to try to catch that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT