ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2015
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What's it like to be at the top of the leaderboard with your sister?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I would say she gave me a text before I'm going out, and she's like, good luck, Mo, so whoever lost today just pay the dinner, so I pay the dinner tonight, since she's 6-under.  I was on the putting green when she made the turn, and I was like, oh, my gosh, she's like 3-under already.  But just like something fun to do with my sister.  That's how we do it.   Q.  Are you going to a really expensive restaurant?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Depends on what she does pick.  I have to pay.   Q.  You're not going to take her to McDonald's?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, she pick it.  Anything she feels like.   Q.  She said you texted her or talked to her last night and said, be patient; is that right?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, that's what my caddie told me all week.  He's like patience, more patience.  I'm like, no more patience.  On this course you have to be a lot of patient and try and put the ball in play all the time, so that's pretty hard.   Q.  Do you have her score in your head at all when you're playing?  Are you thinking about that?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: A little bit, but I'm very happy with her that she played well, because yesterday she didn't play very good, but that's always --   Q.  That's typical?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I'm really happy with her and I'm just trying to catch her, but a little too late.  But tomorrow we'll try again.   Q.  How tough was that when she went through the shoulder injury?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I would say it's very hard time for her because she comes from like finishing top four every week, and then she falls, gets surgery, and takes her I would say like one year, whole year, to get better.   Q.  Do you think she's back now?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I think she's maybe 95, 99 percent right now.  She can hit it hard, she can hit it long.  I think she's fine.   Q.  It's been 14 years since a pair of sisters have finished in the top 10.  How cool would that be for you guys?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: It would be really cool.  It would be really cool, I think.  I mean, it's already cool that we are both on Tour, but it would be really cool if we both got top 10 this week.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT