ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2015
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  So you got off to a great start today with two birdies.  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah.   Q.  Can you talk a little bit about how the day started?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I was trying to forget about like seeing the ball going to the hole because yesterday I missed a lot of birdie chances.  That doesn't help.  So today -- I want to say today is pretty solid.  I might have hit more fairways yesterday, but today I like had some up-and-downs.  It was pretty fun to play around and try to move the ball around and try to put the ball in play on this course because especially it's very important to put the ball in play on this course.   Q.  And you're finding the course is to your liking?  Do you like the way the course is set up?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I want to say majors is always tough.  It's just like long rough from green, and everybody has to play in the same conditions, so I think just -- I was trying to play with my game plan, so it should be fine.   Q.  And the putts were starting to drop today more than yesterday?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I can see it drop in the hole more than yesterday, so that's why I made more putts today.   Q.  What will be your plan for the weekend?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, really excited because it's the first major and I just want to try and do my best.  I really want to go out and have fun.   Q.  Are you feeling more and more comfortable at majors the more experience you have?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I would say I have more experience on this course because I played from like junior golf because I get in to play from like Nabisco, so now we have like ANA but it's still on the same course.  I would say I was trying to put myself in a good chance and good position to play on the weekend.   Q.  So maybe because you're so familiar with this course, it's less nerve-racking?  MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I think different years it's different feelings.  I would say it was the same.  Every time we come back here, it's just like very exciting to play the first major and just have fun with this.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT