INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 25, 2014
Ariya Jutanugarn
Moriya Jutanugarn
Pornanong Phatlum
Onnarin Sattayabanphot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY THESIER:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We're pleased to be joined by Team Thailand here at the International Crown.   First off, ladies, congratulations, wins in both matches today to earn a total of four points against Chinese Taipei, the team that had won four points themselves yesterday.   Pretty impressive.   Moriya, you and Ariya started it off today with a victory, 3 & 2.   Just take me through what was that match like?   You guys have been playing together the last two days.   What was it like to get a win together as sisters? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   I feel like yesterday I played more solid than today, but today she helped me more than yesterday, yeah.   If you heard some, like she said, I didn't play good, but she is better.   She's helped. 
KELLY THESIER:   Onnarin, we just all watched that big putt on 18.   It was quite a tight match with you guys and Yani, and Yani had a chance for her putt to win the match.   Then you were able to make your birdie putt.   First of all, tell me about that putt, how long was the putt, and what was that feeling like to capture a win on 18? 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   I'll say it was around 17 feet, downhill a little bit.   It was a quick putt from left‑to‑right.   Actually, I have to credit my second shot.   It was really good shot, but I didn't really aim at the pin though. 
That putt, that gave me goose bumps.   It was all I had today.   I'm really glad it went in.
KELLY THESIER:   You guys decided to keep your same pairings for day two, even though you guys had gotten only one point in day one.   Why did you guys decide to keep the same pairings and how happy are you in how it worked out today? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Well, for us, because yesterday she was telling me like she didn't play very good, so if she played better, she would be better today.   We know each other very well, that's why we keep the same pairing. 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   I think the sisters can handle both of them, their games really well.   That's why I let them keep the same group.   Then for us, we tried to get to know each other better.   Last night we went to dinner together to try to figure out how we're going to play today.   So it went really well today. 
KELLY THESIER:   Open it up for questions. 

Q.   Was last night the first time you guys had gone out to dinner other than the banquet?
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   No, it's not the first time.   The first time we went to dinner, we didn't really talk about golf or who we were going to play.   So I think that's what went wrong at the beginning. 
(Laughter.)
So yesterday we tried to figure out what we really were going to do, so today it went well.

Q.   Talking about winning 18 again.   It was extremely important to get all four points today, given the one that you had had yesterday.   Were you understanding the position?   Did you know how they had finished prior to walking up on the 18th fairway? 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   I definitely know that they won their match.   And then my partner already made par, so all I want to do was try to nail that ball in the hole and make a big score for Thailand. 

Q.   Moriya, could you tell me what it's like to play with your sister?   What it's like out there?   Do you joke around?   Do you argue?   What do you talk about?   What's it like? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   To me, I feel like yesterday and today, she kind of get like a little bit more like nervous and maybe she was a little bit tired from playing a lot of golf. 
I just tried to keep her more calm and we were kind of joking around, just like that, and she kept me calm, too. 

Q.   I know you played against each other a lot.   How many times have you paired together in competition prior to this?   And then how is the shoulder? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   We played together in match play before, a long time ago.   When we were juniors.

Q.   How old?   Juniors wasn't too long ago. 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah, four years ago, but I beat her, so...
(Laughter.)
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   That's all that she ever says.   But today we were trying to beat each other all the time also.

Q.   Even when you're partners? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah.   Like we just kind of like talk like trying to ‑‑
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Before I tee off, I say, I'm going to make birdie. 
And she says, No, I'm going to make birdie, too.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   No, I'm going to make birdie.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   So my shoulder?   My shoulder is getting better, it's like 90 percent right now.   So I don't have to worry about it. 

Q.   I don't know if you have been asked, but playing the Americans tomorrow, here, what are you expecting in terms of the crowd?   What are you expecting in the way you're playing?   Are you confident going into tomorrow's matches? 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   We're probably going to try to keep the same confidence like today, and then just go have fun.   Let's see how it goes. 
KELLY THESIER:   Have you guys been watching at all the scores in?   The Americans didn't get any points yesterday.   They're leading in both of their matches right now.   How difficult of an opponent is Team USA.   We know they're the No. 1 seed overall.   Do you look at them as a very difficult opponent? 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   I think it's going to be a difficult thing for both of our teams.   Team Thailand and the Americans, you never know tomorrow, just come and watch. 
(Laughter.)
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Right. 
KELLY THESIER:   Well, you guys are the final matches that are out tomorrow, so it will be USA and Thailand closing it out.   As you said, it should be a lot of fun to watch.   So hopefully everybody will come out.
Congratulations on your play today and wishing you the best of luck tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT