NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 26, 2013
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We'd like to welcome Moriya Jutanugarn into the interview room.   Congratulations.   A great 5‑under par round today.   Just take me through your day out there and what was really working well for you. 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   All right.   Thank you very much.   You know, I just want to go play today and like one shot at a time, playing my game.   So everything worked pretty good today.
THE MODERATOR:   The conditions out there seem a little tougher.   I know it was cold this morning.   How different was it today than yesterday? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yesterday I played in the afternoon, like 1 something tee time.   So yesterday it was pretty warm and it was better.   This morning is kind of freezing and cold, windy.   So I mean it's much different.   But yesterday I like missed some short putts for do whatever, like a little bit crazy. 
THE MODERATOR:   Was there one key aspect to your game today that really was working well for you that got you?   Was it putting or were you hitting your shots close?   What was kind of the key for you today? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   I hit it pretty close like a couple times, like four feet or five feet.   So I make the putt from there.   And I think today the driver was pretty good keeping the fairway so it makes it easier.
THE MODERATOR:   You're an 18‑year‑old rookie out here on the LPGA Tour, originally from Thailand and you've been playing really well so far this year.   You're leading the points right now in the Rookie of the Year race with more than double the number of points of the person who's right behind you.   Was that a goal for you at the beginning of the year?   Did you kind of set your sights on being rookie of the year? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   I'm pretty surprised because I had a good start this year because before I start the tour this year, I kind of nervous a little bit because I don't know what is going to happen.   So it was really a surprise, and I try to work hard every time when I play and try to enjoy every time when I play.   Yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   So I don't know if everyone here knows, but you play professional golf and your sister also plays.   She's a year younger than you.   She's 17.   She's a rookie on the Ladies European tour, but she tried to Monday qualify this week and missed it by just a stroke, but she finished third last week in Hawaii and she's going to play next week at Kingsmill as a sponsor invite.   The two of you are both really good golfers.   Do you get competitive when you play with each other or kind of describe your relationship with your sister. 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Just like every time.   I mean all the time, like everything else.   We really fighting and really competitive.   It's so much when you have a sister with you and practicing, you had a friend and you had good like competitor. 
THE MODERATOR:   So I know last week you missed the cut in Hawaii and when she finished third, did she give you any grief about that?   Was she picking on you a little bit about how she finished higher than you? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yes.   Of course.   She's like, what are you doing, just inside joke, but I try not to think about what was wrong last week.   So I mean I call my coach and I try to figure it out.   So it works. 
THE MODERATOR:   So what do you think has been the solution?   What did you figure out from last week to this week?   What have you made, changes? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   I try to shape my mind every time when I play golf.   Just like I'm really anxious sometimes.   So I try to relax, play one shot at a time.   So play my game.   Yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Moriya. 

Q.   You had a bogey‑free round today but talk about how you kind of recovered, because I know late in the round yesterday you had three straight bogeys.   Talk about how you put that behind to do what you did today. 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Like yesterday I had 3‑under and then I had three bogeys in a row.   It was kind of[] weird because I had ‑‑ I'm not really getting in trouble, but I just missed short putts.   That's it.   So after that I kind of make my confidence with very short putt.   And today is like just trying to keep going and play my game, one shot at a time.   You can do it all day long, you know. 

Q.   What does your sister doing?   Is she hanging out with you here for the rest of the week or is she going back home?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   She left yesterday to Virginia because she had nothing to do.   She was like, I missed the cut and then I ‑‑ okay.   I left. 

Q.   Can you just talk about the season and how you've been so steady and in addition to that, working on your putting and how that has gone? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   You know, I just try to play my game, like what is there, pin, I mean on the course.   So it's nothing like ‑‑ I don't have to ‑‑ I try to work hard everything like in my game. 
But how can I say?   You know, like last week, putting or driver is not really work, so I try to work hard this week, so it's getting better.   So yeah, just keep in touch with my coach, call him every day.   Yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   Moriya, what's been the toughest thing about being a rookie on the LPGA?   Has it been the travel?   I know you traveled a lot playing golf event and stuff before, but what's been the hardest thing to get adjusted to as a rookie out here? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   You know, this year is kind of a big change for me because I just play from junior golf.   And it was like and at last to play professional golf.   It's a big change, but I enjoy it. 
Happy that we have rookie hours that we have to play.   I mean we have to play golf practicing and then do the rookie hour.   But it's very enjoy.
THE MODERATOR:   Have you gotten used to made a lot of friends out here now?   Are you starting to feel comfortable out here, the routine of traveling everywhere? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   I have a lot of friends right now.   I go and say hi, but I try to make friends.   That's my part, make friends, enjoy the game.   That's it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Well, it's working out well for you so far.   And it seems to be going into your results.

Q.   You are in today 5‑under.   Compared to yesterday can you just talk about is that way better today considering the conditions?   It seemed like the conditions were tougher today. 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   For me the condition is more tough than yesterday when I play.   But I can keep relax today and I play one shot at a time.   You know, yesterday I just had like something funny, like missed a shot by like three feet, that's it.   So only one thing I work on last night, I mean after the round yesterday.   Yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   Did you feel better about your game today?   Did everything feel like it was starting to kind of click, like yesterday or was yesterday everything feeling good besides the putting? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Just the putting yesterday, yeah.   But today I try and focus with the short putt and just, you know, like do your best every shot.   So after the ball is off the face so that's all I can do.
THE MODERATOR:   Can't try to guide it.   That's one of those things.   Just can hit it where you think you want to.   Any more questions for Moriya?   All right.   Thank you very much for joining us and best of luck the rest of the week. 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT