SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2021
Destiny Slocum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Ole Miss 69, Arkansas 60
 THE MODERATOR:   We are ready to continue with Destiny Slocum.  Questions for Destiny.
 Q. Did you guys just feel like you couldn't find a rhythm tonight?  What did you feel like was the difference for you tonight?
 DESTINY SLOCUM:   I mean, had a first rough quarter.  That kind of set us behind a little bit, playing from behind.  We caught back up.  I think we just could never really get over that hump, just couldn't really -- I wouldn't say couldn't find our rhythm.  We took great shots.  I felt like we got really good shots.  Tonight they weren't falling.
 But I think we fought till the fourth quarter.  I mean, I can't really say much.  I mean, I think we have a lot to work on, to grow from.  I wouldn't say that's, like, something to define us from.
 But we're going to use it as fuel obviously.
 Q. You didn't play the last time they played these guys.  I'm sure you saw the film.  What did you feel like they did differently against you?  Anything?
 DESTINY SLOCUM:   That's tough.  I thought they played really well the first time, as well.  They're a good team.  I think this time a lot of their shots, I mean, they shot the ball pretty well, not going to lie.  Got to the free-throw line.  We fouled a couple times, gave up a couple of offensive boards in the second half that I think led to a little bit of extra momentum for them, where we could have taken the momentum.
 I think it was less of an entire game plan for them.  I think that changed this game compared to the last, more momentum swings of offensive rebounds, maybe an and-one bucket here and there.  I think those type of things fueled it a little bit more, gave them a little bit more energy.
 Q. The last two times Arkansas has gone to this tournament, they've been playing their way to get into the NCAA tournament.  Do you feel like having the tournament in the bag may have affected you all not having the edge you normally would have?
 DESTINY SLOCUM:   I don't think so.  I think we came into it prepared well and were ready for the competition.  I think tonight Ole Miss was, as well.  They're a good team, good competitors.
 I think, as I said, the first quarter there were small things that kind of got us to us, gave us a little bit of a deficit to work our way out of, which we did.  That's what we were talking about is if we could have fixed that first quarter, we would have been ahead and been playing from ahead.  Not really one time in this game did we play from ahead, right?
 Q. Right.
 DESTINY SLOCUM:   Yeah.  So that's tough.  When you're digging your way out, the entire time in the fourth quarter we had a chance, just couldn't execute and get stops.
 Obviously going to learn from that, so...
 Q. Can you talk about what type of matchup problems Shakira created tonight.
 DESTINY SLOCUM:   I think her length was just a little bit disruptive.  I mean, when you have someone, I think she blocked a couple people in the first quarter, it caused us to be a little bit more hesitant than we usually are attacking the rim.  Kind of settled for some outside jumpers that we wouldn't necessarily have.  I think having someone with that length and athleticism on the defensive end is something that can be a little bit of a mental game.  I think we let it get to us a little bit.
 Later down the stretch, I think we started to attack, get downhill.  Chelsea had a couple great layups on her inside hand.  I know Mack wrapped around and had a good layup.  Later in the game we started to adapt, kind of just attack.  Just a little bit late.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT