ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2017
Mathias Bourgue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. CORIC/M. Bourgue   
7-6, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  How would you describe the start of your match?  The first set was quite close.  Perhaps you missed an opportunity in the tiebreak.  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: Yeah, sure.  It was a tough first set.  It was quite long, a lot of rallies.  It played pretty well on both sides.  I think it was 50/50.   
It's true I missed a few opportunities here and there.  And losing the first set was pretty harmful.  Then he played his tennis, and things became very difficult for me.   
 Q.  Your staff was saying, Go for it, but to go for it, you don't always have the opportunities.  Coric plays long balls?  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: Yeah, he plays very long.  I was probably a little tense and probably too far from the baseline.  When I'm far away, it's difficult to go forward.  I'll need to fine-tune that for next time on clay against him if it ever happens or even against someone else.   
 Q.  What separates him from a player like you?  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: He's probably steadier.  I did a good first set, but he was steadier in the second.  He continued to play very well, to use his tennis.  I panic more easily.  I was more nervous.   
I think I need to be more steady in my game play, in my attitude.  Otherwise there will be a difference that will remain between players in the top 50 and me lagging behind a bit.   
 Q.  We are probably not going to tell you about this year's defeat and more about the defeat against Murray last year.  Maybe you can forget about that one.  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: Yes, well, I put that behind me already.  I think today's defeat needs to be analyzed carefully, because I was feeling good.  We'll need to take a step back and see what we can do going forward.   
But last year's defeat is forgotten.  At least I have forgotten it.   
 Q.  When you were saying that you would have liked, maybe that's what you debriefed with your coaches, that you would have preferred to be a little bit more on the offensive, is it a situation in which you place yourself?  And maybe it was because of the stress?  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: It's true that playing from the back is my comfort zone, but with such a robust player opposite, it's a tough game.  He's probably a little bit better than I am.   
I was probably not too relaxed because of that.  Maybe I should have been more engaged, tried to destabilize him a little bit more.   
But that would go against my personal taste.  But I should probably have went there to try and disturb or even defeat him.   
 Q.  What's the rest of the season for you?  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: I'm going to the Lyon Challengers and the Blois Challengers.  Then there will be the Wimbledon quarterfinals, and I don't know about the rest, but it will probably be a mix of challengers and qualifications to try to play as much as I can and build myself confidence.   
 Q.  When the president announced the wildcards, he said these would be the wildcards, the last for some of them.  Was there any pressure in that?  Because there are also younger kids who got them this year.  Did you take it personally?  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: No, I didn't take it personally.  If he was talking about me, I didn't really feel that.  I don't know the guy.  I have never talked to him.   
So I didn't really think about that.  I just tried to do the best I could today.  It didn't come through, but the president's not going to teach me how to play tennis.  I'll just go my own way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT