ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2016
Mathias Bourgue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/M. Bourgue
6-2, 2-6, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. What an incredible match.  I'm curious, would you like to share the emotions that went through you when you had a standing ovation on this court in front of a French crowd like that?  Even though it turned out you didn't win.
MATHIAS BOURGUE: Yeah, it was completely incredible.  Was the first time for me in this kind of court, that big, against a huge player.
So I'd like to say thanks to all the crowd to encourage me the whole match.  It was really an emotional moment for me, and I will never forget it.
Q. How did it affect you?  It seemed like the match kind of turned as Andy Murray changed his shirt from black to white.
MATHIAS BOURGUE: No, I don't know (smiling).  Just after the first set, I said to myself, Okay, he's not playing that fast, so just try to play like him a little bit.  Serve more first ball.  I played very good, I guess.
He was a little bit tired, I guess, also.  So the match was like 50/50.  When it turned two sets to one for me, I was like, Okay, one more set.
But he played good.  Then I think I lost my chance.
Q. I want to know if you ever got the Mars bar you asked for.  I didn't see.  I know you got the Coke.
MATHIAS BOURGUE: I got the Twix, but it was okay.
Q. Were you feeling low on energy at that point?  Is that why you needed a boost?
MATHIAS BOURGUE: I started -- I felt I wanted to have some sugar, because I was tired.  I just asked for it, and that's -- Gilles Simon told me if you feel tired, take one Coke and one Mars bar, so that's what I wanted to do.
Q. So you have worked hard, you've played at the challenger level.  What is it like to play on France's great stadium in front of such a huge crowd?  What did you feel?
MATHIAS BOURGUE: First I was afraid, because I knew it will be in a big court with a lot of people.  Then when the match started, I felt better.  Because he helped me with his game.  He was playing really slow, so I just started to tell to myself, Okay, just try to play like him.
When I started to do that, I felt confident.  At the end of the match, I felt moved.
Q. When you say you said to yourself to play like him, what did you mean by that?  Explain.
MATHIAS BOURGUE: Not exactly like him, but play slower and accept more the exchange, the rallies.  And sometimes just play one big shot.
And I think I did this well during two sets.  I lost a little bit this at the beginning of the fourth set when he broke me.
So...  That's it.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. When you were at 2-1, how did you feel?
MATHIAS BOURGUE: I couldn't believe it myself.  I was very happy.  I was very proud.  I knew I was on top of things at that point.
Then at 15-40, I was leading at 15-40, I had a break point, and then he had a great half-volley dropshot.  Then I realized it would be a long match.
Then he increased his game.  I started to serve less well, and then he just had that positive momentum that went on and on.
It's a pity.  It's a pity I lost the match, but that's normal.
Q. How does it feel, not just as a tennis player but as a human being, making it this far and financially also how does it feel?
MATHIAS BOURGUE: Well, I have been playing since I was very young to get this kind of emotions.  This makes me realize how much progress I have made over the past six, seven months, especially.
So once again, I'm very moved.  My first round was very tough, and I was more or less the favorite.  But it's Roland Garros, so I knew it would be difficult.  And then with today's match, I was very moved.
Once again, this guy is one of the best players in the world.  He, you know, has won so many things.  He's a top champion.
And the fact I was able to dominate him for two sets gives me a lot of confidence.
But again, I'm very moved about this, because this is exactly what I want in my career, and I hope to get this again.
Q. Let's come back to your game in set 2 and 3.  You had a lot of winning shots.  You seemed to be on top of things.  Is this something you've experienced before in other games maybe, in other matches, or even during training?  Could you tell us about how you felt, you know, from a pure tennis standpoint.
MATHIAS BOURGUE: I'm not sure I have ever had such a game level.  It's interesting.  I didn't feel like I was on the edge.  You know, I felt good.
Once again, he wasn't playing very rapidly.  I felt he was giving me time to play, so I decided to just accept the rallies and every once in a while, you know, make a big shot.  I did.
And at that point the overall game level was very high.  I'm quite satisfied about some of the winning shots I was able to make.
Q. How did you prepare this match with Olivier?  You said before the first match you had a lot of tension, you had some cramps.  This time around this was not the case.  How did you prepare?
MATHIAS BOURGUE: Yesterday was a very light day.  I hit a few of balls for about an hour, maybe two, then he left me alone.  I got some cryo therapy, massage, as well.
Today right before entering the court, he showed me a video of Muhammad Ali.  And he said, When I box, I want to box in front of a big crowd.  It was very emotional.
I think I entered the court with the right mindset.  Even if I was a bit tense in the first set.  I felt good.
Losing against Murray is what I was expecting, so I wasn't really that tense.  Then when I got the break, and then again, I all of a sudden was able to relax and sort of play with the public.  I was able to manage and stay on top of my emotions.
Q. You're 22.  You're obviously making a lot of progress as a player.  A lot of people say there are not that many upcoming French players.  We have a few strong players today, but few upcoming strong French players.  The fact you're a part of this potential new generation, how does it feel and how do you position yourself?  What do you think when people say the next generation of French tennis players is not really there?
MATHIAS BOURGUE: I disagree.  There is Lucas, first of all, he is becoming one of the future leaders of French tennis.  Pierre-Hugues Herbert, who's also in the top 100, I think he will stay there.  Quentin Halys, as well.  He's a young fellow.  He's been here.  He's probably make it into the top 100.  He made it into the first round.  There is myself, there is Greg Barrere, there is Constant Lestienne.
And we are all players with good results, and we have to, you know, continue.  And I think we can make it.
Q. After your performance against Schwartzman in the Bordeaux tournament and now here, what's your next objective this season?
MATHIAS BOURGUE: I'm going to go back to my daily routine, so to speak.  That's the challenger, I'm going to play the double here, then I'm going to play the Lyon challenger and the Blois challenger, and of course, I'm going to go back to work with my coach with that.  That will be my summer.
Challengers I'm going to do my very best week after week and hopefully I can come back next year here at Roland Garros and not just with a wildcard.
Q. You said you were going to go to Lyon after Roland Garros.  Obviously people will look at you very differently.  I guess that will make you feel proud going back to challenger, you'll come back with a lot of great memories from here, right?
MATHIAS BOURGUE: Not necessarily pride.  I think we'll have to debrief with my coach, and I'm sure he will tell me that the emotions are very important.  They were great emotions, but it's time to move on.
And we do need to move on.  It may take a little bit of time.  But I will do exactly what I have done before, before Roland Garros, during Roland Garros I have always prepared my tournaments, you know, seriously.  I won't do more; I won't do less.  I will just keep it the same.  I'm just going to keep my same routine.  I will be consistent, and hopefully I can make more progress.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT