ROLAND GARROS
May 23, 2016
Mathias Bourgue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. BOURGUE/J. Samper-Montana   
7-5, 7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  You knew this was going to be a tough match, 3 hours 26 minutes, if I'm not mistaken.  A rough match.  What are your first impressions?  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: I knew this was going to be a rough one.  He was, got out of the qualifications.  He won three matches right before playing this one.  I trained with him.  I knew this was going to be a long match.  He's a solid player.   
I'm happy.  I'm happy that I managed this in three sets.  Physically it was becoming quite complicated.  During the second set I don't know exactly what happened, I was getting cramps, maybe because I was getting nervous.  I was finally able to win the second set.   
That really helped me.  Then I think I was able to sort of let go, relax, and wrap up the match in three sets.   
 Q.  Isn't it better when it's painful?  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: Well, I guess, I guess.  You know, it was my first match here, and winning, even if it's in pain, feels great.  He got a break in the first set, and then I was able to save four or five set balls, and then finally I won -- I was able to really increase my play in the second set.  In the third one I was able to break and serve for the match.  And then, of course, you start thinking about the second round, even though you have two more points to go.   
And then I was able to finish with the tiebreak, had the match points, and I couldn't send the ball back inside the court.  That's how tense I was.   
So finally, when I won the match, there was a lot of emotion.  Very special.   
 Q.  Tell us about the tiebreak in the second set.  You were saving four set points.  Then you served really well.  You also had a great return, winning return.  Tell us a little bit about that specific moment in the match.  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: I don't really know what to say.  I think I played, really, with my guts at that point.   
I remember being very tired.  But also less tense.  I didn't think I was going to win the set.  But then at that point, the set points that I saved, he was not very good at that point.  So he helped me at that particular point.  And then there were two, three points to wrap up that one set.  I was able to really, you know, mobilize the little energy that was left to score a few good points.  Finally, I was able to win the set.   
 Q.  There has been a 15% increase of the prize, so you're going to earn a substantial amount of money.  I believe it is 60,000 Euros.  For a player your level, earning such an amount of money, what does that really change in your life?  Does it change the way you're going to train, for example, or anything else?  
MATHIAS BOURGUE: Well, first of all, I should say this has never happened to me before.  Typically, where I play, you don't get that kind of money.  Even the winner.  So this is quite special indeed.   
What will I do differently?  Well, I think I can work with my physio, physiotherapist more frequently, and increase my -- put more work in what I do and really stay very focused and invest the money as wisely as possible to serve my project at the end of the day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT