BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2008
Benn Barham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round.  
 BENN BARHAM: Got off to a fairly slow start but picked up some birdies towards the ends.   
  
  Q. What about your season?   
 BENN BARHAM: I had a good result at Wales a couple weeks ago, so hopefully I'll carry the form on through to the end of the summer.  
  
  Q. Have you played well here before?  
 BENN BARHAM: Yeah, I have actually. Last year I finished ninth or 10th in the last round, so it's a course that I know fairly well and I like.   
  
  Q. You're obviously well set up for an excellent weekend.   
 BENN BARHAM: Let's hope so.  
  
  Q. What sort of score do you think you might have to get to?  
 BENN BARHAM: I don't know. I think if I remember correct last year, 15-under, but if I can get to that kind of score, 15-, 16-under maybe.   
  
  Q. How good was that today?  
 BENN BARHAM: It was good. I had a fairly slow start but as I said, I kind of played well towards the end and putted well, didn't hit the ball that great but my short game has been awesome this week so far. And my putting has been real good. So, yeah, it feels good.   
  
  Q. Essentially it's two good days, because it's one shot dropped across 36 holes?  
 BENN BARHAM: Yeah, that was a 3-putt -- my short game, I don't like to have 3-putts. So yeah, I was a bit disappointed with that really.   
 But yeah, all in all it's solid golf, which is what I'm aiming for. I've been a little bit inconsistent over the years but if I can play solid, I'm happy.   
  
  Q. Not to dwell on the negative, but in the scheme of things, that just means how solid you've been playing.   
 BENN BARHAM: Yeah, it's solid, it's good stuff. But with the wind picking up and the rough fairly tricky, it's easy to drop shots.  
  
  Q. Using the word "solid," are you trying to be realistic?  
 BENN BARHAM: Yeah, absolutely. I've been in this position a few times, not many, but it's a long way to go. We're at halftime and second half to play.   
  
  Q. Second half in Wales was pretty good, so a continuation of that?  
 BENN BARHAM: Yeah, that would be nice. If I can keep moving forward every day, that's great. If I can keep just playing solid, it will happen.  
  
  Q. Have you done anything since then?  
 BENN BARHAM: A lot of golf days. I missed the cut in Austria, which I was disappointed with because I thought I was playing good. Then had a week off where I had some commitments, golf days to do and called up some friends, had a night out. It was a good week.   
  
  Q. How do the golf days fit in?   
 BENN BARHAM: Oh, it's fine. I'm in a lucky position where people want to spend time with me on the golf course, so I'll do that, and it's no problem at all. A couple were charity golf days and a couple we're played quite a lot for, so it's no trouble at all.   
 Sometimes when I'm in a tournament I'm not great company, but for Pro-Ams, they want to play golf and enjoy themselves, so it's no problem.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT