EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 7, 2008
Benn Barham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BENN BARHAM:  It was nice.  It's important to keep the ball in play around this course which I kind of managed to do, and holed some good putts.  It's one of those days where every putt I had, I kind of -- well, every 10-, 12-foot putt I had, I felt that I could hole it, because the greens are there, actually.  Yeah, they are nice.   
 So I got off to a good start, birdied the first two.  Kind of got a couple of bad breaks and made a couple of bogeys but then it was nice to finish with a birdie on the last.   
  
  Q.  One of those courses where the driver stays in the bag apart from two or three holes?   
 BENN BARHAM:  I think I hit the driver four times today and one of them was a mistake.  I hit into a bunker, but it was too narrow for driver.  So I think three times would be pretty much what I will be doing in the future.   
  
  Q.  I'd have thought that 3-under par would stand up pretty strongly, won't it?   
 BENN BARHAM:  Yeah, I think so.  Yeah, it's one of those courses where you keep it in play, the birdie chances are there, but as soon as you hit it slightly off line, slightly off line, you're hitting another one off the tee.   
  
  Q.  You look like you're warm, you've got the short-sleeved shirt but it wasn't the first thing this morning, which I think the people at home would be surprised by.   
 BENN BARHAM:  Yeah, it was freezing.  I thought there might have been a fog delay this morning because there has been the last few days but the jumper, I didn't take the jumper off until well into the round, I think almost probably 10th or 11th hole.   
 No, it's good.  It's a nice place here.  The course actually reminds me of Canterbury Golf Course, one of my favourite golf courses back home.  I said that to my caddie today when we were on about the third or fourth.  You know Canterbury is very tight and you have to put in play around there, so yeah, I feel quite at home here.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT