DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2008
Benn Barham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BENN BARHAM:  Yeah, I enjoyed it actually.  The weather was perfect.  The course was absolutely immaculate.  And I played nicely.  Hit the ball well and putted nicely. 

 Q.  Good score to start the tournament? 
 BENN BARHAM:  Yeah, you want to get off to a good start and I've certainly done that today.  Just try to keep it going. 
 I think the par 5s for me were not in range and I have to go and make birdies with my wedges.  No, I'm not going to complain with 4-under.  I think 4-under is 4-under and we'll see how it lies at the end of the day but there's a long way to go. 
 It was a good group and we all played quite nicely and that sometimes helps.  You're unconsciously spurring each other on. 

 Q.  How difficult has it been? 
 BENN BARHAM:  I've got lots of good stuff and it's been a little bit frustrating really.  But you know, we had a chat, me and my caddie last week and he sat me down, gave me a bit of a talking to and just said to be patient.  And I came here this week looking forward to playing and watching a couple of different things.  Yeah, it was good fun.  I think that's the key, I need to try to enjoy it.  I'm fortunate to be in this position and I need to try to enjoy it. 

 Q.  Sounds like you grudgingly accept that you needed that talking-to. 
 BENN BARHAM:  Yeah, I did.  (Chuckling) Rob is obviously pretty close to the action being my caddie, so he sees everything from a different perspective.  Yeah, he said a few things last week and I took them on board and hopefully I'll take them on board for a few more weeks. 

 Q.  Getting into bad habits? 
 BENN BARHAM:  Yeah, the occasional bad habits on the course.  Off the course I'm pretty chilled out and seems to change a little bit on the course so that's my mission, that's my goal. 

 Q.  Nice-looking leaderboard. 
 BENN BARHAM:  I said to Rob on the 7th green, I said, "That's a bit more like it." 
 Yeah, it's always nice when you're playing big events and the big players are here, and it gives you a bit of a buzz for sure.  But you know, I kind of -- not to get too carried away, I'm sure I'll have a few messages today on my phone.  But there's a long way to go. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT