ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2021
Yuka Saso
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Here with Yuka Saso.  Yuka, your first ever ANA Inspiration.  How are you feeling after the first round today?
 YUKA SASO:   I'm feel a little tired.  It's very hot.  But, yeah, I enjoyed today.  Yeah.
 Q. When you made the decision to come here for the ANA Inspiration what were some of your thoughts or feelings as you got ready for this major tournament?
 YUKA SASO:   Nothing really change.  I just do my own things, and, yeah, get ready for the tournament.  Yeah.
 Q. We last saw you in the States at the U.S. Women's Open last year where you had a spectacular performance.
 YUKA SASO:   Thank you.
 Q. Were you thinking of what you did last year as you prepared for this week?
 YUKA SASO:   No, not really.  It's new year.  I had a long off, so, yeah, it's different.  I played in Japan tour so, yeah -- I mean, it's over, so I can't really think about it anymore.  Yeah.
 Q. What have you been working on and what has it been like still competing over in Japan?
 YUKA SASO:   I've been working on -- I don't know, my drive I think.  Because last year I feel like I needed to keep fairways more, and, yeah, I think I'm doing well.  A little.
 Q. Take us through the first round here today.  Couple birdies on the card, especially in your front nine, which was the back nine.  Being able to reach the island in two.  Take us through what was working so well on that back nine.
 YUKA SASO:   I think my putting was, yeah, good today.  I had few par saves.  Yeah, and my driving also was good.
 Q. What do you think was more difficult maybe about the front nine today numbers 1 through 9?
 YUKA SASO:   My driving a little was off back nine, which is front nine.  I think that made me a little -- made it difficult for me.  Yeah.
 Q. You're one of seven people this week debuting at the ANA, it's their first ANA, alongside I believe friend, Bianca Pagdanganan.
 YUKA SASO:   Yeah.
 Q. What's it like to be enjoying this experience together?
 YUKA SASO:   Yeah, I saw her yesterday and, yeah, it's been a while since the last time I saw her, which was U.S. Open.
 It's really fun having -- she's like my older sister, so, yeah, it's really fun.  Yeah.
 Q. I was going to say, what's it like to be back here in the States competing at the major championships?  Is this something you've been looking forward to in 2021?
 YUKA SASO:   Yes, I would like to play more here in U.S. if I could, and, yeah, hopefully learn from other golfers from here.  Yeah.
 Q. To wrap up, what is there to work on for tomorrow?  What's the mindset going into the second round?
 YUKA SASO:   Still the same:  Work on my driving because it was a little bit off back nine.  I think that's is.  And rest well.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT