NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 10, 2001
Steve Francis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you talk about coming back here and playing in your own backyard and that first seven or eight minutes was pretty special for you?

STEVE FRANCIS:  It was great.  Like I said before, I had, so far this weekend, I'm having a good time.  I was able to see my sister, my grandmother and my family and friends, and to my  -- you know, not too many times does an athlete get to come back to his hometown for an All-Star Game, and that's something special. 


Q.  All-Star Games are not known for defense, and this one certainly was not, but I'm wondering if the players realize that fans also like to see good, strong defense? 

STEVE FRANCIS:  Sometimes, you know, I think that guys really think that in order to highlight or to really entertain the fans, it is all offensively, and I guess, as the season progressed, as the years progress, people will notice that they are not playing defense, but I can remember some games when the scores were like 145, 150 back when Magic and Isiah(Thomas) were playing so I guess All-Star Games were always like that. 


Q.  Wally played at the least-high profile school of any of the players in the game today, what do you remember about him in college and has he impressed you in the NBA so for?

STEVE FRANCIS:   I play in the Western Conference so I played him six times already in my career and I think that every chance that he gets, he's taking advantage of the minutes, last year (the minutes) that he was getting were real limited, once they lost a couple players, he stepped into the starting role and I think he has been doing a great job for the Timberwolves.


Q.  Did you have a lot of fun out there? 

STEVE FRANCIS:  It was great.  Like I said, I was happy to see the guys in my class, that we were drafted together, went to Chicago, pre-draft camp and everything like that. I thought it was good that we were all able just to chill together and play together.


Q.  Is today's game a precursor to the Sunday game?

STEVE FRANCIS:  Definitely, it is all about the fans.  When guys like they were saying, when guys sit out games, All-Star Game, I think this is definitely a mid-season classic and if you have an opportunity to take or be a part of, I think you should take advantage of it. 


Q.  How special is this for you?  You talked about the disappointment of not being in the game? 

STEVE FRANCIS:  The only way I can be involved in an All-Star Weekend now is if I make the big game.  I played my first two years in the Schick Rookie Challenge and hopefully, maybe next season I will be an all star, but its something that you really have to work hard for and you have to strive for. 


Q.  How would you compare your experience this year to the one last year? 

STEVE FRANCIS:  This year has been more stressful because everybody wants tickets.  Everybody wants to take a picture with Shaq.  Everybody wants to come to the hotel, get Shaq's autograph or Kobe and Allen and things like that. But its been fun.  Like I said, you don't find too many athletes who have All-Star Weekend in their hometown. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT