LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
November 22, 2009
Doug Brecht
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Doug, just update us, if you can on tomorrow on the plan for tomorrow following tonight's suspension of play.  
 DOUG BRECHT: The plan, as it stands right now is to resume play for round two tomorrow morning at 7:00. We anticipate having somewhere around an hour and a half of play left on the golf course.   
 Once we get it done, we' will make a cut to the low 70 players and tie. Start the third round approximately 9:00, with hopefully a low number. Don't print that, please. And last time would then be somewhere about 11:00, and finish this golf tournament at 4:00 tomorrow afternoon.  
  
  Q. You're confident you can get it in, 54 in tomorrow?  
 DOUG BRECHT: I'm confident that right now that from the amount of time that I need to play a golf tournament and the amount of daylight that we have left, that we can finish tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Any interesting developments on the course in terms of conditions?   
 DOUG BRECHT: Um, players were extremely complimentary of the conditions of the golf course when they got out there and started playing. From an officiating standpoint, we had a lot less rulings than we thought we were gonna have. Most of the casual water issues were taken care of by the players, and we didn't have that many calls as far as that goes.   
 Actually, our pace of play is quicker than we thought it was gonna be. So we may have bought a little bit more time than we originally thought we were gonna have, and that's a good thing.  
 But everything about the golf course is extremely positive. I cannot begin to think thank the maintenance crew and how hard they've worked and the time they've put in and all their efforts to allow us to play this golf tournament.   
 Because at 7:00 this morning, guys, there wasn't a way. There was no way. We were saying, hopefully, maybe by 12:00. And at 12:00 it was fine. It was good.   
  
  Q. Were the conditions at 7:00 worse than you anticipated as of 5:00 last night?  
 DOUG BRECHT: Yeah. I thought they would be a little bit better from what I saw. I mean, it was the same general places. It was holes 3, 9, and 10, which we knew all along were the worst. We thought they would be a little bit better.   
 And they were, in fact, better than what we saw yesterday. I just thought they would be a little bit better than what they were. We used obviously every resource available to us to be able to play golf today.   
  
  Q. This is in terms of players locating their marks, where they had marked their balls, there was no problems in resuming play?  
 DOUG BRECHT: We never even had a call. Normally -- I think we had one, maybe two calls before we resumed play, and it was more about taking casual water relief. None of the marks had really been disturbed or out of position from when they first were -- when they first got out there and were trying to get their ball replaced and back in play.  
  
  Q. So you didn't go back and forth whether you should start at 9:00 or noon? Pretty much noon was the soonest you could start?  
 DOUG BRECHT: Yeah, because we all got out there and looked. I mean, our process -- we started by me going out to the 10th fairway at 6:00 this morning trying to use as bright of lights as I can to try and make a determination. I could still hear the water squishing around. I couldn't really see enough to make a determination then.  
 We were back out at 7:00. We, all five of us that are here this week, went to the 9th fairway and looked that and knew we still had problems.   
 Then we split out and went to different holes, because the 9th being one of our toughest ones, one of our big problem areas, we -- and the 3rd. Then we went to the 3rd and then we went to the 10th and then went to other various holes and saw where we were.   
 Based on all of our experience looking at all those different holes, realized that we had a lot of work to do to get to 12:00, but maybe we had a chance.   
 By the time we went out to look again, which was around 9:30, very much improvement. We use -- the golf course has an instrument called a Water Hog, which basically just sucks water up into -- I think it's like a ten-gallon drum, and then takes it off to the side and dumps it out.   
 That moved a lot of water for us and allowed things to dry out pretty quickly after that.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DOUG BRECHT: Yeah, I mean, we've had dots down on the green where round three hole placements were gonna be ever since -- ever since we almost were done with the -- well, go back to the first round.   
 We had the dots already down where they were gonna be for the second round. Then once the second round was being completed, we went back to put the hole locations for round three out again.  
  
  Q. Will you repair according to the score for the third round?  
 DOUG BRECHT: For the third round, we will repair according to the score off of two tees in groups of three, with the high scores -- the low scores of the tournament going last off No. 1, the high scores of the tournament going last off No. 10.   
  
  Q. Any discussion about, you know, bringing back less than 70 for the final round?  
 DOUG BRECHT: Yeah, we talked about it. We have a regulation that says we can go 60 and highs for the final round. Because of the nature of this event and the last round being a cut to 30 and ties, we discussed that.   
 The thing about 30 and ties versus 70 and ties, if you do the math and take 30 and ties versus 70 and ties, it takes you about five and a half to five hours and 45 minutes to play 30 and ties.   
 To play 70 and ties, it takes you about seven hours. So you got about an hour 15 difference. With all we're trying to accomplish and the scenario I've already set out for you as far as finishing at 4:00 and knowing that players tend to, when a cut is involved, play toward that cut line. If you're a little above it, play conservative so you can make it to the next round. If you're a little below it, try and be aggressive going for that cut.   
 So now you go to 30 and ties, they're going, Why you changing this now? That was one factor. The factor that it's only an hour and 15 to an hour and 30 minutes difference, it might make a difference as to whether we can finish tomorrow or not.   
 But more than likely, the way the scenario plays out, we were either gonna finish with 70 and ties or finish with 30 and ties. Or if we didn't, both of them would have to be a Tuesday finish situation.   
 So that's why we made the decision we made to go to 70 and ties.  
  
  Q. You have an hour and a half left in round two.  
 DOUG BRECHT: Approximately, yes.  
  
  Q. So you don't get finished Monday, be another decision to come back on Tuesday?  
 DOUG BRECHT: Yeah, we'll finish 54 holes.  
  
  Q. On Tuesday?  
 DOUG BRECHT: On Tuesday. If --  
  
  Q. Or whenever. (Laughter.) On Thanksgiving.   
 DOUG BRECHT: First time I started laughing in here. That's okay. Yeah, we will finish 54 holes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT