BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: AUBURN v OREGON
January 6, 2011
Jeff Maehl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What is it like playing against Cam Newton? Do you think LaMichael James is getting the attention he deserves?   
 JEFF MAEHL: Definitely. You know, LaMichael is a big-time player for us, just like Cam is for them.   
 They have kind of been talking about Cam versus LaMichael all week. There is other guys out on the field. Whoever has got the better ones will win.  
  
  Q. There is a height difference and a weight difference. What do you think is LaMichael's advantage?  
 JEFF MAEHL: Obviously speed and quickness. He can make them make a big play at any time and break a touchdown at any time. He has been doing that for us all year. And that's something that they got to watch out for.  
  
  Q. Have you been surprised how good Darron has been in his first year? A lot of people came in assuming he would scout this job?  
 JEFF MAEHL: Not at all. I remember when Darron came in as a true freshman when we played Boise State back home a couple years ago. He came in there and almost brought us back in the game, threw three touchdowns and delayed pick. But, you know, almost brought us back from 21 points down.   
 So he's a gamer, man. His work ethic and the way he wants to be good is something that not a lot of people have. I wasn't surprised about that.  
  
  Q. How did you get from -- shift from DB?   
 JEFF MAEHL: I was playing as a backup DB, third-and-long situation, been playing a lot of special teams.   
 We just had a lot of injuries that year, especially to the receiver position. And Coach decided to make the move with, I think, three games left. And I just kind of took it from there.  
  
  Q. How did you feel about it? Did you look down on wide receivers when you were than that side?   
 JEFF MAEHL: Not really. I played receiver in high school. So I was, you know, used to the position and whatnot but definitely not at the college level.   
 It was a big learning experience, especially those first two years for me, about the position and what I had to do to get better at it.   
 I miss DB. That was my love in high school and when I first got here playing safety.  
  
  Q. What do you miss about it?  
 JEFF MAEHL: Just everything. There is not a better feeling than getting an interception and especially taking it to the house. So that's the stuff I miss.   
 But it is not a bad feeling scoring touchdowns on the offense side either.  
  
  Q. When did the light come on for you?   
 JEFF MAEHL: I think when Coach Frost got here. He totally shifted the whole room, the whole receiver room. Really just emphasized especially blocking.  
 Just the little details of being a receiver, route running and stuff like that. Really he did a good job of individually showing us what we need to get better on and not overloading us with information.   
  
  Q. One thing he showed you, if there was one little thing?   
 JEFF MAEHL: Not necessarily. He just -- one thing at a time. You take one thing at a time and try and teach technique. He has seen how he won a national championship as a quarterback and playing in the NFL as a DB. He knows football and knows what it takes to be good.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT