ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 27, 2020
Katey Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








India - 133/8, New Zealand - 129/6
Q. How do you sum up the match today?
KATEY MARTIN: ... we probably rue a couple of opportunities in the field. I thought we bowled extremely well coming back from -- probably India got off to a really good start on that powerplay. Milly Kerr really batted outstanding to get us so close. And needing I guess four to get into the super over, five or six to win the game, that last ball kept it nice and close. But we go into a must-win match against Australia in our last game.
Q. You mentioned fielding errors, those dropped patches. They proved quite crucial at the end. Is that something you'll be working on ahead of the Bangladesh game?
KATEY MARTIN: We've been making big strides in our fielding. I think we've got a really big focus of getting off the boundary ripe, and there are some tough chances. But at this level we need to be taking those -- look I think something that we really pride ourselves on and I know that we'll continue to do the work we've been doing and knowing that some of those will stick and go our way.
Q. A positive take from the game was Amelia Kerr's two wickets and that late performance at the end nearly got you over the line. A few words on how you thought she performed today.
KATEY MARTIN: She was outstanding. She's prepared really well against Poonam especially. And you saw her move around the wicket nicely. Amelia is probably a slight person. She's got along the ground and over extra cover and you saw that behind the wicket today. So she had a great day for us, really changed the momentum of the game with her bowling. And Milly is a real star for us and we'll be looking for her to continue that form throughout the tournament.
Q. Did New Zealand sort of anticipate India fielding four front line spinners because they haven't done that through the tournament so far. But them going in with the one pacer did that affect your plans and strategies?
KATEY MARTIN: Not really. We've probably faced India and Ghana as well with four spinners. We expect 12 to six and over of spin. So we were prepared for that. We knew probably the fields that they were going to see it, and for us it was just about executing. And a few of us probably through the middle struggled a wee bit to connect to the ball on a bit of a slow wicket. But we were comfortable going with our plans going into the year. And Pandey bowled really well up front and back end. And she was a big difference today.
Q. Thoughts on Pandey, specifically that your cover is a turning point in its own right. How have you seen this bowler evolve through the years? You've played a lot against her. How do you see her getting on this stage and defending those 16 runs?
KATEY MARTIN: She's a great player. She's been around for a long time. And she executed well and that's what you expect of your senior pros. Being a sole, I guess, pace person in the attack, she bowled really well. And you want to back their experience in there. And we had plans against her, and again we couldn't execute 100 percent but we got close in the end. Yeah, she bowled really well and held it over in the end there.
Q. Do you think going into that last over the fact that it was the one pace over and you had pace on that you backed yourself because of that fact?
KATEY MARTIN: Yeah, I think so. I think the breeze also, for that deep mid-wicket area, was also a strength. And we know here that the wicket runs really fast behind the wicket. So we had plans for that as well. We got close. I mean no one probably wants to face Sophie Devine or bowl a Sophie Devine in a Super Over. Even to get to that point would have been outstanding. And Pandey bowled really well and unfortunately we just couldn't get it across the line in the end.
Q. Some criticism against New Zealand in ICC tournament that there seems to be over the last two or three years that putting yourselves in positions where it's difficult to progress -- you possibly leading up to a virtual quarterfinal against Australia?
KATEY MARTIN: Look, India probably improved their T20 cricket throughout the year. I've been around since 2009 and played them, and they are definitely a lot stronger team now and a lot of confidence, especially with a number of the youngsters coming through. We're aware of our record and obviously that's been disappointing.
But we play Australia if we are successful against -- and our next game is Bangladesh, and it's a one-off, effectively a quarterfinal for us and we've got nothing to lose. I mean, well, obviously lose a game. But all the pressure is on Australia. Effectively it's their home World Cup.
And, like I said, we've been disappointed, but we'd rather be in a position where we get an opportunity to go through than not. So that's the position we're in at the moment.
Q. The fact that New Zealand has recently restructured the contract system where you have so many more players now centrally contracted, one of them moves to essentially strengthen your team after these results. When do you think these the effects of that move are going to come through?
KATEY MARTIN: We've probably hit a solid six months with the girls being full-time cricketers. And we've got a home World Cup in 2021 that I think we really hit our stretch having a good win to back home.
But, look, whether we're full time or otherwise we want to go out and win games and improve our performances. And I think we've done that as we've gone. We've got one more game against Australia to hopefully as a quarterfinal for us, and I think that if our skill level is where it needs to be, we can beat teams. We've got number one and two ranked batters in the world in T20 cricket. One of the best league spinners coming through the game and with their off-spins in the top team. We've got the talent there. It's just about putting it in the park and seeing the results from all the hard work.
Q. Do you feel like the gap between Australia and the rest of the world has narrowed with, I suppose, countries investing more into the women's teams?
KATEY MARTIN: I think so. I think with all teams being able to play each other throughout that four-year cycle with the ICC World Championship has made a difference. And probably teams don't fear each other as much. When you play against a team often or every couple of years, you sort of get a bit more confidence and feeling that -- Thailand being, they're outstanding coming into this tournament and they haven't stood out as a wicket team.
So I think that's the thing and that's the pressure on Australia to keep going. But, look, they've got heavy investment in their programme. And for probably the other teams it's really about us just going out and putting our best foot forward.
Q. And there's the WBBL in some way actually help other teams catch up with Australia as well, given the number of players who can play from overseas?
KATEY MARTIN: Yeah, I think we had seven or eight players this year in the Big Bash, in the WBBL. Sophie was one of the outstanding performers. And I think that allows our players to develop the skill sets. We play against Australia as well nearly every year.
I think being able to be a professional cricketer over in these environments, you look at the conditions of the junction over, it's an outstanding place to train. And I think we've gained that confidence from being successful in the Australian competitions. And we're really fortunate that we can play in those. And obviously the Super League and the IPL exhibition games, the girls, really performing outstanding out there.
So, hopefully as a team, we can put that together, and our senior pros that have been around for a while can get us across the line in the next couple of games.
Q. Going back to Amelia Kerr, she seems to have developed into somebody whom any team, whether it be the Women's T20 Challenge Team or New Zealand are comfortable handing the ball for the last over. She can also pull off chases; she was almost there today. How have you seen Amelia get to this stage? She started out this young, as this youngster, and now she's become a key part of the New Zealand side?
KATEY MARTIN: Look, Milly is probably once in a generation type player for New Zealand. She works really hard at her game. She has a lot of support outside of cricket. And she's someone that takes her responsibility doesn't sort of necessarily -- she feels pressure like we all do but she really takes it with a mature outlook. And you don't expect someone 18, 19 to have the cricket knowledge that she does.
But she's been outstanding for us, and she's the first one to put her hand up in pressure situations and that's what you want. And she's an exceptional young talent and someone that I think will have a long successful career.
Q. You have seen the evolution of women's cricket in New Zealand since 2009. You've missed tours before because of commitments. How much does it mean to have that full time contract structure allowing you to focus on cricket?
KATEY MARTIN: Look, it's made a big difference for me. It's pretty tiring at my age to try and manage both of those. And it's been quite stressful. I get the opportunity to train with our trainer five days a week, be at Lincoln with our coaches, Bob Carter and Matt Bell.
And I think the more time you do something the better you'll get at it. And I think you've seen Australia do that, committed full time to cricket. And same as India now. But for me it's been refreshing to be able to solely focus on cricket and I'm fortunate that I'm in the position that I can do that.
Q. You've given up your previous work?
KATEY MARTIN: I do a little bit just to keep myself occupied, I think. For me, I'm at the stage where balance is really important both between keeping myself occupied outside of work. But cricket is my focus and my priority. And, look, we've got a big 18 months, not only a big week to go but a big 18 months in terms of our schedule with a couple of World Cups. I'll be eyeing keeping the professional training every day and being full time and really giving it my good go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT