NHL DRAFT
June 27, 2014
Sam Bennett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So you're a Calgary Flame, wearing the jersey.   How does it feel?  
SAM BENNETT:   Yeah, it's unbelievable right now.   You know, it really is a dream come true.   It's surreal that I've been drafted, and I couldn't be happier.   
   
 Q.   The transition will now shift to how NHL ready are you.   Going to this off‑season training camp, three months, how NHL ready are you?  
SAM BENNETT:   Yeah, I think I'm ready.   I'm going to work as hard as I can this summer, and I'm going to do everything I can to make that team come training camp.   
   
 Q.   Four is not a long wait, but did it feel long or did it happen pretty quick there?   
SAM BENNETT:   It definitely did feel pretty long to be honest.   You know, I really wasn't too sure what was going to happen.   I didn't know where I was going.   The minutes, they felt like hours for sure.   But to end up in Calgary, I really couldn't be happier.  
   
 Q.   I know when Brian Burke was talking, he called you (inaudible) what does that mean in terms of having his endorsement?   
SAM BENNETT:   Yeah, for sure.   I take that as a huge compliment.   That's the type of player I am, and that's the style of game I play.   You know, to recognize my style of game like that, I appreciate that.   
   
 Q.   Pre‑draft, players don't like to say where they'd like to go, they're just happy to go.   You knew draft order, you knew where you were ranked going in.   Did you visualize yourself as a Flame, as an Oiler?   How did you break it down in your mind?  
SAM BENNETT:   You know, it's funny, before the draft I went up and visited Calgary actually, and when I went home, I went up to my parents and said, mom, dad, I want to be a Calgary Flame and I want to play in Calgary.   To have that come true now, it's unbelievable.  
   
 Q.   What made it appealing for you?   
SAM BENNETT:   It was a culmination of just I love the city going there.   I love the rink, just the atmosphere.   I've heard so much about how much the Flames love sports and hockey in the city, so definitely just all that and the great management they have there really makes it exciting.   
   
 Q.   Have you spoken much about playing in Calgary?  
SAM BENNETT:   No, actually I haven't spoken to him about Calgary too much, but I'm definitely looking forward to having that conversation when I get a chance with him.   
   
 Q.   Did you have a feeling at the time?   
SAM BENNETT:   No.   I really had a strong feeling Calgary was going to pick me, but I wasn't too sure what was going to happen before that with the other teams.   Definitely after the third pick was announced, I really did feel like I knew Calgary was going to take me.  
   
 Q.   Was it a sense of relief when you heard your name?  
SAM BENNETT:   Yeah, it is.   I had so many emotions running through my body, I couldn't even describe them.   But relief was definitely one of them.   
   
 Q.   Who was here with you today?  
SAM BENNETT:   I have both my parents, my sister, my grandparents.   I have my billets and a couple other friends, as well.  
   
 Q.   When you were watching that opening video before they made the selection and you saw some of the players you'd be playing with, are there players on the Flames right now that you're excited to meet, play with?  
SAM BENNETT:   Definitely Sean Monahan.   Actually I spoke with him before the draft, and after talking with him, it made me want to come to Calgary even more.   He just made it sound so good, and definitely if I got a chance to play with him, that would be unbelievable.   
   
 Q.   What do you remember about the games you played against him?   
SAM BENNETT:   Oh, he was a great player.   He was tough to play against.   He put the puck in the net all the time.   He was definitely a great player to play against.   
   
 Q.   Was there anything in his game you applied to yours, two years ahead of you?  
SAM BENNETT:   Not so much but just watching him play, I guess, you could see how determined and how skilled he was.   
   
 Q.   Do you follow Monahan much on Twitter?  
SAM BENNETT:   I don't follow it, but I have seen those tweets for sure.   They make me laugh a little bit.   After meeting him actually I could see where those tweets come from.   It's pretty funny.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your development.   
SAM BENNETT:   Yeah, Kingston has been unbelievable to me.   I definitely wouldn't be here without the management staff there along with the players that I played with.   They have supported me and helped me so much.   I'm so thankful for them.  
   
 Q.   Special experience having them for teammates?  
SAM BENNETT:   Yeah, for sure.   I want to get out there and see where my teammates are going, so it's definitely a great experience for me, as well.   
   
 Q.   I know so much was made about your (inaudible) can you just speak to that?   
SAM BENNETT:   Yeah, well, it is what it is.   I can do them now, so I'm not too worried about it.   
   
 Q.   What about all the (inaudible) in the Western Conference?   Every game out there is pretty tough.   
SAM BENNETT:   Yeah, I'm not too worried about that.   I think after this summer of training and working with Andy O'Brien, he's a great trainer, and he's definitely going to get me ready to handle the abuse that I'll be taking next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT