NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 14, 2006
Kevyn Adams
Eric Staal
Cory Stillman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 KEVYN ADAMS:  Bottom line is we're up 3-2, we didn't want to go back there, that's for sure.  But we have got to go back there and fight.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible) What is the feeling now?   
 KEVYN ADAMS:  It hurts right now.  It's tough to swallow.  You want to finish teams off when you can.  They played hard, but we knew they were going to play hard.  We were right there, battling. It's in overtime and with the chance and they get the goal.   
 So those things are not supposed to be easy.  It's a tough one, but that's with -- we're going to have to pull together.  I mean, it's going to have to be a gutsy effort from us going into Edmonton.   
  
  Q.  Is there one thing to point to?   
 KEVYN ADAMS:  I don't know, you know, obviously you don't want to give up early goals.  You want to try to get them on their heels and get our crowd going.  They were able to come out and play a first period to get one in the first minute.   
 It's an overtime game, those kind of games can go either way.   
  
  Q.  You score two power play goals, looks like you get the momentum there, crowd is into it, what happened from there?   
 KEVYN ADAMS:  Well, Hemsky had a big goal and then they capitalized again on the 4 and 4.  We were fighting.  It was a battle, but they got the last one.   
  
  Q.  Doug Weight was down, Aaron Ward -- (inaudible)?   
 KEVYN ADAMS:  This is a tough time of year, you have got to battle and we'll keep battling.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 CORY STILLMAN:  We're going to go out there and win, that's the bottom line.  We're up, we have one game to win, obviously, and looking forward to doing it.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 ERIC STAAL:  He's coming at me hard.  I didn't see him until the last second.  I needed to make a play and I didn't.   
  
  Q.  How difficult will it be to get over this one?   
 ERIC STAAL:  I have to get over it.  We're still ahead in the series and we got a chance to win in Edmonton and we're going to do that.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 ERIC STAAL:  It's tough, no question.  Bottom line is we didn't win the game.   
 That's what we went out to do, win the next one.   
  
  Q.  How did this game open up so much compared to the last two games that were tough defensive battles, especially in that first period with the wild start?   
 ERIC STAAL:  There was a lot of chances both ways and it's different from the last two, obviously.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the game is kind of streaky?   
 ERIC STAAL:  Yeah, there was some part where it was kind of open and tight; at other times, it's a battle.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT