NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Josh Holden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Definitely.  It is really exciting. Comes as a surprise.  Wasn't really expecting you know, anything back over at all.  It is going to be a great place hopefully they will be able to fit me in down the road.  Brand new building and everything is -- I am really excited.


Q.  A couple of years down the road maybe you can come right in there?

Hopefully maybe I will give him the puck and make sure he will get covered with signatures, but I guess, you know, that is one thing about the game that you can always improve on is your speed and hopefully my speed will get better and eventually down the road I will be able to -- hopefully be able to keep up with him in some way.


Q.  You had a great year last year or two years ago, go to camp, give it a good try and you are -- have maybe a real break through next year.

Definitely.  That is a thing -- going to camp like you said just relax have fun and you will get to know everyone see how things go and go back, play a little bit different role.  Be a better leader, practice my leadership  rolls.  Improve certain points on my game that will hopefully allow me to step in hopefully a few years down the road.

I guess those are pretty great hockey players.  It takes a while to adjust and to get to know the league, but you know, hopefully you know, down the road I will be able to.

It was getting close, definitely that would have been a great surprise.  I lived in Calgary all my life and the organization there is really great, but you know, I am really surprised and really happy to be going to Vancouver.

I guess in a way, I can say no, but definitely yes, there are teams that talked to my agents and promising we will take him in the top 10.  That never worked out.  Kept going and going and Vancouver got a chance and I am really happy and hopefully they will be able to fit me in somewhere down the road.

I guess you always think about kind of this thing about where I am going to go.  Wherever you get picked they will like you.  They will want you and they will want to fix you in, fit you in their schedule somewhere down the road I am really excited.  Really happy.

I have never really hated any teams, never really loved any teams.  Kind have been a good hockey fan.  Just want to watch hockey and there were times when you  know, the Canucks did beat the Flames, but then again I don't really like the Flames, but -- well, I don't know, it was back and forth, but I guess it was kind of neat seeing that and I guess, like you said, being from Calgary it is kind of upsetting, but hopefully -- hopefully Vancouver will beat Calgary now.

Lots of friends, it will be perfect. Playing in reguib that we only get out there only two or three times, so you don't get to see your parents that much, but it will will an lot if you know a lot different lifestyle.  Like I say hopefully somewhere down the road they will be able to fit me in.

Actually I got measured four different times and weighed 4 different times I was 4 different water and heights.  So -- I am about 170 right on I am 6 foot, so.

He is a great defensemen.  He moves the puck extremely well.  He is probably going to be our best defenseman.  That is a great surprise.  I am extremely happy for him.  I can't wait to get back and me and be the leaders on the team next year.

I think it is the -- it is almost like a new career now.  It is like a stepping stone, you go through a career and making it here then you get drafted then you have to start all over again.  You have to make the team, show them you want to play and show them the things you want to do.  This is  definitely the most exciting time in my family and my hockey career.

I had no idea.  It is kind of back and forth.  There were some teams that said some stuff if job is still there we want to pick him.  They never did.  I ended up at Vancouver and I am definitely honored to be wearing a Canucks' Jersey.


Q.  Is there something you feel like working on?

Definitely.  I think it is part of the game Jeremy Roenick, his first game he played at 170 pounds, so definitely, it will take its course and I don't really want to bulk up.  That is not my style to be an extremely -- I am not too worried about it right now. (Extremely raise see player before (.

I really didn't know what to think.  I kind of kept going down and down and just kind of -- you start waiting, is it going to be my turn, is it going to be my turn. But Vancouver is a great city.  We go up there quite often to you know, to the island.  We have friends there.  I am really excited and can't wait to get out there and see the rink.


Q.  Were you in Vancouver at all for interviews or did they come to you?

I had interview here just yesterday morning.  I was a little bit running, I had interview before that.  For 5, ten minutes, it didn't didn't really say much.  Just wanted to get to know you.


Q.  Who was there from Vancouver?

Just two guys.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT