NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 15, 2010
Tomas Plekanec
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you watch the Flyers game last night and what did you think of that Game 7?
 TOMAS PLEKANEC: Yeah, I was watching the game. And I saw a strong group with a great effort and heart. They showed a lot in the whole series. They showed basically what we showed in the series.

 Q. Does it kind of remind you of the run that you guys are on? Are you almost mirror images of one another?
 TOMAS PLEKANEC: It's pretty close, yeah. Like I said, they showed a lot. They've been down by 3-0, it's a hell of a run to come back and then win a Game 7 in their building.

 Q. Did you really care, Tomas, whether it was going to be Boston or Philadelphia? You guys have been preparing, did it matter one way or the other?
 TOMAS PLEKANEC: I can't say. No, it doesn't really matter. Both teams were playing pretty good. And I feel that they proved they're a strong group and they have strong character. And like I said, it's who we're going to face.

 Q. You came into the Playoffs needing that point in the last game of the regular season, and now you guys have moved on into the third round. At any point did you guys ever stop and realize what a good run you're on?
 TOMAS PLEKANEC: No, like we said before the Playoffs, when you make the Playoffs, it's kind of cliche, but you never know what's going to happen after, and that's what happened. We made it in the last minute, and we're still here, and it's a great run for us. We know that, but we don't want to stop here.

 Q. In September, if I would have told you it would be 7 versus 8 in the Conference Final, what would you have thought?
 TOMAS PLEKANEC: Well, obviously it's a surprise, you know for a lot of people, a lot of fans and all the media. But those two groups have shown a lot of character. They've got good, hot goalies, and some players are playing strong in every series, and that's where we are.

 Q. Can you talk about the chemistry that you developed with Cammalleri?
 TOMAS PLEKANEC: Well he's a great player, so I try to find him. He's a great asset for us, he's open for shots.

 Q. What do you expect out of the Wachovia Center crowd tomorrow?
 TOMAS PLEKANEC: It's going to be loud, for sure. But it's going to be the same as playing in our building in Montreal. It's always tough to play here.

 Q. You've had a couple of days off. You've been practicing a couple of days away from the game situation. And everybody's banged up, everybody's got the cuts and the bruises, has that helped you a little bit?
 TOMAS PLEKANEC: For sure, it was a great, great win for us. We play every other day, and every day of the break is great for guys. Obviously, we're tired and everything, so every day is great.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT