NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
Nikola Jokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You played against Karl-Anthony Towns last year and a few times this year.  What have your impressions of his game been?
NIKOLA JOKIC: He's just in his second year.  He's a great player. An All-Star caliber player.
Q. Nikola, what did Vlade Divac mean to you growing up?
NIKOLA JOKIC: I just watched him.  I didn't know him when he was younger.  So I just watched him on the National Team when he played (inaudible) and watched him in the NBA.
Q. What is the biggest transition going from European basketball to American basketball?  What's the biggest transition been?
NIKOLA JOKIC: Maybe just the guys are very difficult to defend because of their athleticism, but it's the same game.  Game is a little bit longer.  Rules are a little bit different.  But it's the same game.
Q. This season has been a roller coaster ride for your team but also for you.  You played with [Jusuf] Nurkic on the court.  Now you are the starting center.  Where do you prefer to be on the court?
NIKOLA JOKIC: On the court.  I like to be on the court just to help my teammates. I just want to be there to be in the game.
Q. Where do you prefer to get the ball?  Most of the offense runs through you now.  Where do you like to get the ball on the court?
NIKOLA JOKIC: I don't really care.  I just want to make plays for my teammates and make the team better.  If I'm better, they're better.
Q. How's it been being a player that was just on the court to being the focal point of the game?
NIKOLA JOKIC: I'm not the focal point to be honest.  We have a really good basketball team.  I'm just there to help my teammates.
Q. What veterans are you leaning on?
NIKOLA JOKIC: Mike Miller and Jameer Nelson.
Q. Are you going to go to the playoffs this year?
NIKOLA JOKIC: We're going to try.  We're going to do our best to get there.
Q. You talked about the transition on the court.  What about off the court?  What were some of the challenges just adjusting to life in America?
NIKOLA JOKIC: Different food.  Just the language, culture.  It's been interesting.
Q. Did the team help make that easier for you?
NIKOLA JOKIC: Yes.  My teammates helped me with all that stuff.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT