NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: PREDATORS VS PENGUINS
May 31, 2017
Jake Guentzel
Conor Sheary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Pittsburgh - 4, Nashville - 1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Jake, on the game-winning goal, what were you thinking when Rust took the puck down the right side?  Was that a pass off pads or a rebound of a shot?
JAKE GUENTZEL: We've been talking about just throwing pucks off the pad and see what happens.  Great pass off the pads by him.
Q. Conor, why do you think you were able to break open the game the way you did in that third period?
CONOR SHEARY: I think we were pretty confident going into that period.  We knew we had one in the room.  We were talking about that.  I don't think we expected to get that that quickly, like Jake did.
We used that as momentum.  Kept pressing.  Obviously got those two other goals right after that.  We thrived off that first one, though, played a solid third period.
Q. Looked like in the first two games you're trying to get to that far post or backdoor somehow.  Are you sensing that's open?  Is that something you think you can exploit?
CONOR SHEARY: I think, yeah, we definitely want to get to the front of the net.  I think a lot of the sprays go to that weak side that you're talking about.  If we can get a screen or fall off the backdoor, you see that opening, I think that will work.  I think that's how my goal happened in the first game.
I think it's important to get the pucks on the pad like Rusty did on that one to Jake's goal.  We want to keep doing that.
Q. Jake, rookie points, U.S. born, you're the most ever, second most goals ever by a rookie in the NHL.  What is your reaction to all this?  How amazing has it been to be in this type of limelight?
JAKE GUENTZEL: Yeah, it's crazy.  You can't even put into words what it feels like.
We know the ultimate goal is two more wins.  Obviously they're going to be tough to get.
Q. How would you describe the feeling first of seeing Nick Bonino bone hobble off the ice like that, then the lift you get later seeing him skating back out there?
JAKE GUENTZEL: Yeah, it's special.  I mean, he's a special player.  He lays his body on the line for the team.  Whenever you see that, it definitely gets you going.  Obviously he's a warrior.
Q. The first goal, were you just throwing it at net hoping for the best?
JAKE GUENTZEL: Yeah.  Conor made a good play, put it on net.  Just trying to throw it on net and see what happens.  Somehow it squeaked through.
Q. Conor, at the end of the day, total shots, hits, faceoffs won, they edge you in all that.  You guys put up the only stat that counts.  Do you look at that as being you're opportunistic or stealing a game?
CONOR SHEARY: I wouldn't say we stole a game.  I think we played pretty well.  The shot clock wasn't really indicative of how the game was played.  I think they had a lot of outside shots.  We did a good job of doing that.
Murray was able to swallow most of them up.  There were spurts where they got a few chances in a row where Murray had to make some big saves.
For the most part I thought our game was pretty good tonight.  I don't think it was lopsided either way.  I thought it was pretty evenly matched.
Q. Was that one of the more vicious games you've seen out there in terms of stick work?  How do you battle through it?  It happens a lot in the playoffs, but it seems like it's ramped up in the Final.
CONOR SHEARY: Yeah, these games are intense.  Guys are into it.  When you're in a battle, you're usually going to take a cross-check or a slash.  That's part of the game right now.  You don't see it called that often.  It's kind of the way the battles go.  I think you just got to fight through it.  I think it's part of the game.
Q. Jake, do you feel like you're getting to Rinne in this series?
JAKE GUENTZEL: I wouldn't say that.  I mean, just in the right spot at the right time.  Pretty thankful they're going in.
Q. The environment in Nashville has been talked about a lot.  How do you prepare for a raucous crowd environment like that?
JAKE GUENTZEL: I think the start is huge for us.  We know their building is going to be rocking.  We just got to come out and set the tone early.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT