BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2009
Brian Vranesh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRIAN VRANESH: I thought I played really good. I've been struggling out here all year, and I'm working with a new sports psychologist, Peter Krones, and he just told me to let it go, don't worry about the past. 
 And a lot of good today, made a bogey early on, I think, and bounced back, birdied the next hole, and feel really good. I like the golf course. The greens are the kind of grass I grew up on, so it was good. It was fun.

 Q. You qualified for two tournaments this year?
 BRIAN VRANESH: No, I got my PGA TOUR card. This is I think, my 15th tournament. Are you talking about making the cut? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 BRIAN VRANESH: I've only made two cuts. Pebble was kind of a bad experience I wouldn't have played anyway, but it was fun. I double-bogeyed the last hole, cost me a couple dollars, but started playing better. I missed the last couple cuts by maybe one or two and played good in Memphis. 

 Q. It was your low round of the season, too. 
 BRIAN VRANESH: Low round of the season, yeah. I was walking off 18, I go, yeah, I haven't played this well in a while, so it's good to be in the hunt and have people cheering for me and hit good shots. It's always fun. 

 Q. Nice time to start playing well, towards the end of the year. 
 BRIAN VRANESH: Yeah. Considering I looked at the scheduling, I'm like, wow, we only got -- I don't even know how many I'm going to get in. 
 So it'll be good, I'll have next week and hopefully a week off for sure and then Greensboro and hopefully get something going.

 Q. Is a round like today something that could maybe change the rest of your year around?
 BRIAN VRANESH: Yeah. But I mean these are long events, you know. Just one round doesn't mean anything, you know. 
 You just gotta go out and play every shot, whatever it gives you. And yeah, obviously to get off to a good start is always fun. I've been behind the 8 ball every first round, so it's fun. It's good.

 Q. You have a little baseball connection, too, don't you?
 BRIAN VRANESH: I do. My cousin, Jon Garland, pitches for the Arizona Diamondbacks. His numbers -- he's pitched better than his numbers. I'm just going to say that right now. 
 So kind of a rough team, they're all young. But yeah, and I'm good friends with Mark Early. Congratulations, Mark, on how you've been doing. 
 And yeah, I love baseball. I would have played if I hadn't blown my arm out, yeah.

 Q. Golf is good?
 BRIAN VRANESH: Golf is good, yeah. It's funny, all the basketball players are like, I'd rather play golf. I'm like, man, you guys are making guaranteed money every two weeks, but I love it out here. I wouldn't change anything for the world. 

 Q. Have you given any advice --
 BRIAN VRANESH: Every time you talk to Mark, he says fairways and greens. He makes it sound so simple. I just tell him to paint the corners or whatever and fairways and greens for me. 
 So that's the advice we give each other. We're very close. He's going to be the best man in my wedding here in a couple months. So yeah, it's always fun. I'll probably get a call from him tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT