ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2019
Anastasia Potapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. POTAPOVA/A. Kerber
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. For your first time in Roland Garros, I guess you couldn't have dreamt of a better start?
ANASTASIA POTAPOVA: Yes, I mean, it was a tough match for me physically and mentally, but I want to thank my team for supporting me and for helping me.  Yeah, I'm so happy right now (smiling).
Q. What did it feel like to start your first match here on the main court, first day, straightaway?
ANASTASIA POTAPOVA: You know, I was trying to keep some focus on me, on myself, how I'm playing, how I'm running.  Not trying to think a lot about the court, about first round, about Kerber, because of course she's a great player.  But, you know, I'm here to play my best.  That's what I did.
Q. When you won the match, you fell to the ground and you had a big, beaming smile.  What emotions were going through you at that point when you won the match?
ANASTASIA POTAPOVA: I mean, a lot of things in my head, but for sure, I was just speechless.  I didn't know what to say and what to do, but, yes, I was so happy at the moment, and I'm still so happy.  I was live for this win, for these emotions, for these moments.  I'm going to do everything to live it through again and again and again (smiling).
Q. How do you feel that your game is or isn't suited to clay?
ANASTASIA POTAPOVA: Last year I did good result on clay.  I played the final in the WTA.  That was my first big result, actually.  I felt pretty confident on it.  Maybe as not so good for my game because I'm kind of the hitters, but I feel confident and it helping me and I like to play on clay.  I like this part of the season.  And I'm enjoying it.
Q. You have only been off the court for a few minutes, but have you had a chance to receive any messages from friends and family?  What are some of the messages that you have received?
ANASTASIA POTAPOVA: Oh, my phone is exploding right now, you know (smiling), social media, anything, WhatsApp, the messengers.
Yeah, I really appreciate.  That's very nice to hear some congratulations from great peoples, from tennis players, actually, as well.  Thanks a lot for this.
Q. In the few big matches you have had in your young career, you have always seemed quite fearless.  Do you feel it when you go up against someone like Kerber?
ANASTASIA POTAPOVA: You know, I was really looking forward for this match, because Kerber, I like her very much.  She's actually one of my idols, and when I was young I was looking for her game, how she's playing.  When you step in on the court and you know you play your, I would say idol, you just gotta show your best.
That's help me.  So, yeah, I was fighting for every point, and that's it.
Q. Jelena Ostapenko won here at Roland Garros a few years ago as a young woman, and at the moment the women's game is wide open where there is potential for lots of people to win.  What could you achieve at Roland Garros this year?
ANASTASIA POTAPOVA: You know, I don't want to think about future.  I want to think about every point, every game.  And the only thing what I can think about now, it's my next round.  It's the second round.  And what's gonna happen, nice.  If I'm going to win it, great.  But I want to keep focused on myself, on my health, and just stay with a clear mind.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT