SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 26, 2019
Gabriela Dabrowski
Xu Yifan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You've been to the WTA Finals a couple times. How does this compare so far?
GABRIELA DABROWSKI: We've only been here a few days, so I think we're still getting used to everything. But center court looks really cool. I think the atmosphere is going to be really good. The giant screen is very unique to this tournament. It's something we've never seen before, which is pretty cool.
Q. How special is it for you to have the WTA Finals at home?
XU YIFAN: Yeah, it's an honor for me to be here in China, especially. This is the first year. I'm looking forward to play on the center courts.
I really like the color of the center court, yeah.
Q. What are your impressions of it? Have you practiced on it? Playing slow, fast?
GABRIELA DABROWSKI: The balls are a little bit light. The court is slow. The ball is traveling through the air quite quickly. When it's hitting the court, it's slowing down.
Q. For your game, how do you think that will affect you?
GABRIELA DABROWSKI: I think for everyone it will be good. I think those type of conditions breed really good tennis. You'll have a lot of long rallies. I think it will be really physical. You need to be very dynamic.
I think for us that's good. We like to move around on the court and work hard, make sure we have good positioning. I think with the way the court was built, that suits us - at least we hope so.
Q. Talk about your group, the challenges it presents.
GABRIELA DABROWSKI: Obviously some of the best teams in the world, so really big challenge. We've lost to some of them, beaten some of them before. I think we're all quite evenly matched. At the same time we have a little bit of work to do against some of the teams we've struggled with. I think we can learn from those matches.
I think also where we've beaten some of the girls, we can take some of the positives and hopefully implement them tomorrow and the next few days.
Q. What about your team's performance this season?
GABRIELA DABROWSKI: We've improved. We finished No. 4 as a team, which is really cool. That's an improvement from previous years. That was nice to see. We also made a couple big finals, which we've never done before. Making Wimbledon finals was definitely a highlight.
Really pleased with the way our year went.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT