WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2010
Jarmila Groth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. WILLIAMS/J. Groth
  6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You must be disappointed today. But your last month has been very satisfying. 
 JARMILA GROTH: Uhm, yeah. Disappointed, true. I had the chances in the second set. But, yeah, I mean, I made fourth round both Grand Slams, so I should be happy, right? 

 Q. Did you tighten up or did she loosen up towards the end of the second set?
 JARMILA GROTH: Uhm, I mean, she always serves well. I got a good first game when I broke. I should have hold my serve. Play couple loose points on my serve. 
 My percentage of the first serve went down, as well, so it was not as good as, you know, the first set. So I didn't get any free points or anything. 
 She's a good enough player to, you know, keep up. So, uhm, but, yeah, she serves so well. I got a chance in the breaker as well again. Ended up hitting double-fault. So that doesn't help.

 Q. Before the game, what did you think you needed to do to be able to beat her?
 JARMILA GROTH: I knew I had to hold serves. I've been serving very well the first three rounds. So if I could keep it up, which I did the first set, where I got broken in the last game, just a little bit strange because I still made a lot of first serves. So that was one thing. 
 And then I knew she was going to serve well. Had to somehow try to make the returns. Hopefully, you know, win a couple points off the ground. 
 Yeah, and I tried to be aggressive, take the chance when I could, because otherwise she would make me run a lot. It's not easy to play her. She's very tall, she moves well, so it's really hard to get her going. That's what I tried to do.

 Q. How close do you think you came to beating her today? 
 JARMILA GROTH: Well, I lost, so I don't think I was close enough. 
 But, look, I had still 5-3, 5-4, serving for a set twice. Came back in the breaker, you know, taking a couple points now and then. Even the last match point, I still got a short ball in the end. Could have been 6-All if I didn't miss-hit the ball. 
 But, yeah, she's a good player, so she knows how to handle herself, and she did.

 Q. How much do you think your game has come along this year to make last 16 on clay and grass?
 JARMILA GROTH: I think I improved, you know, pretty good. I think I'm better physically, and in general overall in all my game. But I guess it's good only for the fourth round so far, so... 

 Q. What do you think of her level of play?
 JARMILA GROTH: Well, she gave me a couple of free points, especially the 6-5 game, when I broke her again. Uhm, I wasn't sure if it's because I put pressure on her that she actually had to hold and she had to make balls. She been down the whole set until then every game almost. So I'm not sure if it's that or if she just played a loose game. 
 But, you know, she served well. It's hard to return. It's hard to get anything going in. You know you have to keep holding serve. So it's really difficult. She still moves well. I mean, I thought she played good enough to beat me, which I think if she has to step up, she will be able to do that.

 Q. What do you need to do to your game to take it to the next level of these other players?
 JARMILA GROTH: That's a good question. I'm not sure right now actually. 
 Uhm, as I just finished, I'll give you answers that are not very nice right now. I need to hold serve. If I play somebody who serves well, especially like Venus does, there's no way I can lose my serve three times in a set where I'm actually winning. I can't get broken that easy, especially serving for the set.
 I thought off the ground I played pretty solid. I took a chance when I could. Couple mistakes here and there. But it's grass, again. It's not like you get the same bounce every time. 
 Uhm, yeah, returns, can't really comment on that because her serve is, you know, different to everybody else's serve. I thought I'd been returning till then pretty well. I've been breaking a lot. You know, it's lots to learn from, I guess, and there's things improve and I will try to watch the match or something and figure out what it is.

 Q. What did you think when things were delayed at the beginning? Did you know whether anything was going on?
 JARMILA GROTH: I knew Venus was just warming up. It's okay. It's normal. I knew she's just on her way because she waits literally till it's time and then she goes to locker and she gets the stuff.

 Q. What did you think when the fans booed her?
 JARMILA GROTH: I wasn't sure why actually. I still don't know. No idea actually why. 

 Q. You can be very hard on yourself sometimes when you do make mistakes. Does that motivate you or does that distract you, do you think?
 JARMILA GROTH: Can be both. It depends. I always been hard on myself since I was little no matter what I did. If it came to tennis, I always just decide I don't mind to be beaten, but I hate to lose because of me. 
 So the points that she plays well, serves well or does, you know, well, that's fine with me. I will give her as much credit as I possibly can. But I hate to lose because I make a silly error and give her the point. That's why I get angry with myself, frustrated with myself, because I just can't stand doing that. 
 If I want to get better and play with, you know, the better players, bigger girls, try to make it past the fourth round of a Grand Slam, I can't afford to do that. That cost me the second set, minimum. 

 Q. What are your plans for the next few months? 
 JARMILA GROTH: Yeah, I'm playing World TeamTennis for next two weeks, so I'm going to States I think end of this week or sometime like that. Then I'm coming back and I play Istanbul Cup, Copenhagen, Montréal and US Open, I believe. 
 But that can change. I'm not sure if there is something else between Montréal. I'm not really good with tournament schedules and points and rankings, so I have no idea actually. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT