NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Brian Gaffaney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
It has been a long road to Minnesota, long drive, but I am glad to be here.  It is a great experience.  I am really excited.  I can't wait to play.  I think he had a lot to do with it.  Why?  Being from Minnesota, I know he likes the Minnesota guys.  I guess I saw him on the rink a lot and I kind of had a feeling, I guess.  I am playing in the WCHA.  Yeah, I am already lined up to go this fall. 
 
Being a big guy, I have always like Ray Bourque, but I kind of maybe play like Chris Pronger. 
 
Being 6' 5", 215, 220, about like that. 
 
People say second round, something like that, you are so big, you can go earlier than that even, but yeah, I was.  But, I have been working hard and it is a great accomplishment, I guess. 
 
I have a couple uncles that are fairly big.  But, my close family, like my mom and dad, are not tall  at all. 
 
Working on my game?  Some people say I don't shoot the puck enough from the point, maybe hesitant to pass it off.  But, that, I can obviously get stronger and bigger, which will help out a lot. 
 
I had a meeting with him on Thursday and the Penguin staff.  It was great.  I liked it a lot.  They liked me, I guess, so here I am. 
 
About my size:  I got great reach, cover a lot of area, I guess.  I will probably play at 230, 25, so I will own the front of the net and the corners.  Minuses, I can't really see any, I guess.  I am a fairly good skater, yeah. 
 
The U.S. League for American players, it is a step between high school and college.  It is a developmental League.  You get to play around 80 games and teaches you to grow up, I guess, get away from home.  That was the first time I was away from home.  Lived with a family. Basically you mature as a person and as a player and played the games, get a lot of experience, learn about life on the road. Getting back at 5 in the morning from bus trips and stuff like  that from Thunderbay, it gets kind of hectic, but it is worth it, obviously. 
 
30,000 people, there is not much going on, so you are pretty much playing hockey. 
 
End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT