TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 19, 2011
Jackson Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. How good did it feel to get out there on Saturday and make a difference?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: It was fun. It was a good time.

 Q. What did you learn about yourself with your first start?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: I was pretty nervous before the game. But when we got out there, honestly I knew that everyone around me had faith in me and I had faith in all them. So it wasn't really that nerve-racking. It didn't feel that much different rotating in with Mackey the first game. I was a lot more nervous the first week than I was last week. 
 That first week -- I was about to throw up I was so nervous before that game.

 Q. (Question off the microphone)?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: I couldn't tell you. Maybe around 30.

 Q. How aware were you guys, obviously knew the offense was keeping the ball moving, but defensively are you aware at all of what's going on --
 JACKSON RICHARDS: That takes a little pressure off whenever three plays into the game we get a 60-yard completion for a touchdown and then we make a stop and then they score again. 
 Whenever your stops are rewarded with a touchdown it makes you feel a lot better. Adds on the confidence. Takes a lot of pressure off, too.

 Q. When you look back, looked at yourself on film, what did you feel you did well on Saturday and what were you not --
 JACKSON RICHARDS: I felt like I played hard. And that's the main thing you have to do especially at defensive end. But I saw a lot of things I need to improve on and I know we're going to work on it this week and keep working on it after that.

 Q. How much are you taking advantage of this opportunity with Mackey being out?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: You know, Mackey's a great player, and I'm just doing my best to fill in his spot and hopefully he'll be back soon. He's a really hard worker. He's a really humble guy. We miss him a lot on the field.
 But we know he'll be back soon. And I have confidence I can hold my own until he gets back. And when he gets back it will be that much better.

 Q. What's your relationship been like with him since he's been gone, taking over his spot?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: Whenever he got hurt he told me he'd be my biggest fan until he got back. He's that kind of guy. He's real supportive of his team. He's definitely not the guy sitting over there sobbing in the corner. He's doing whatever he can to get back as fast as he can and make a difference.

 Q. Any advice or tips on technique or anything like that?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: Does he offer advice, tips? 

 Q. Or do you ever go to him?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: Anything he picks up on film, he tells me and Dartwan and Kindred and Aundrey Barr, tell us all exactly what he sees.

 Q. Anything surprise you about playing on the road and playing in New Mexico and the kinds of things they were doing?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: I didn't know the weather was that bad there. I didn't know it could be sunny and cloudy and sunny and cloudy six times in one day. 
 No, it wasn't like a giant packed house to where everyone is yelling how much they hate you. So I guess I haven't really experienced the real effects of an away game yet.

 Q. What did you see as some of the biggest improvements from two weeks ago against Texas State?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: I feel as a whole we all played better offense, defense and special teams. And I don't know, we kind of -- I felt like we were more prepared because we had more film to watch. We didn't exactly know what Texas State was going to do because there was a new offensive coordinator, new head coach. So we didn't exactly know what film to study. 
 We just knew -- we knew what to do with New Mexico. We knew how we were going to play and what they ran.

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about Seth's composure and how he's stepped up to be --
 JACKSON RICHARDS: You can tell a significant change in Seth right whenever we started workouts after the bowl game last year. He just immediately stepped up. Immediately a lot of people started looking up to him. He's definitely put the work in. It's paying off right now.

 Q. What do you know about Nevada's offense?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: I know they're fast. I know they won, was it 12, 13 games last year. I know they're going to be very good. We've got to get in the film room and work hard in practice, because it's going to be a challenge. They're a good team.

 Q. Since you run some of the pistol offense, does that help you on defense that that's what Nevada runs?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: I haven't watched any film on Nevada. But obviously they do run the pistol. I'm hoping it will help a little bit. It's not like we're going to see a bunch of plays we've never seen before. And especially after playing Texas State and New Mexico who are both shotgun run teams, that should help a little bit. Shouldn't be too much new things to see. But then again every team runs something else different.

 Q. This is the last week for the conference (indiscernible)?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: It's real important, I guess. I have no idea. This is my first year. So to me Texas State, that was a Super Bowl game, New Mexico is another Super Bowl game. I'm so hyped up for every game, that's honestly how I felt before both those games. I felt like we were about to go play the Cowboys or something like that when we were about to go play Texas State and New Mexico. It's all new to me. This is the first time I'm really tested, honestly. 

 Q. (Question off the microphone)?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: I was kind of timid a little bit on the pass rush because the harder I was going to go upfield, it was going to leave somewhere, that B gap wide open. I knew that quarterback is going to take it and run. 
 So I saw him going, held something, and I had big boy grab me here while the fast guy's trying to run away. I'm just holding on for dear life hoping that someone's going to come hit. Luckily right when I let go Dees came in and hit him, and that was good. Didn't look stupid. If he had broke it off for 20 yards I would have felt bad for letting go.

 Q. Since he was a mobile quarterback, was the game plan to kind of keep him -- can you talk about that. How well did you execute your game plan against him compared to what you were looking for?
 JACKSON RICHARDS: I felt like we did a pretty good job containing him. Still with a quarterback like that, I think he broke a few loose. But as a whole I think we did better this week than we did against Texas State. And all we can do is try to get better. So hopefully we'll get better next week and keep that up. 
 There's also the McCoy brothers. We did a drill where they scrambled. We had to try to keep them contained. And I don't know if anybody is as fast as those two brothers. So I mean that might have helped a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT