CACTUS BOWL: KANSAS STATE VS UCLA
December 23, 2017
Josh Rosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOSH ROSEN: Feeling good.  The flight was cool.   
 Q.  How do you want this team to be remembered?  You guys are always saying finish out this team, the 2017 UCLA Bruins and worry about --  
JOSH ROSEN: Just be remembered as a team of really close-knit guys who loved each other and played as hard as we possibly could through all circumstances.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
JOSH ROSEN: I mean, the last two years in general have been really, really close losses.  So I mean you look at a time like an SC who is playing Ohio State in the Cotton Bowl, and we match them stride for stride and we felt we actually played better than them in many facets of the game.   
And it's frustrating to see certain teams like that doing, playing in certain bowl games against larger teams and all that stuff.  And we're sitting here.  So it's been rough the last two years losing to really, really good teams by very slim margins.  But that's why this team is full of a lot of high character guys because we can take it with a grain of salt and keep pushing on and focus on Kansas State on Tuesday.   
 Q.  We don't know if this is going to be the end of your college career (inaudible)?  
JOSH ROSEN: I've asked a lot of old quarterbacks from UCLA and other schools.  I've talked to Troy Aikman and Brett Huntley and Pat Cowen, a lot of guys.  What they say, you don't really remember the wins and losses, the on-the-field stuff; you remember the friendships and morning workouts.  You remember the good the bad and the ugly.   
And it's more so the experience you've had here, not as much what went on in the field because you're not going to be able to distinguish a team from 1976 to 1977.  So maybe in 30 years maybe you won't be able to distinguish a team from 2013, '14, '15, '16 or '17.   
So it's more so the memories that you made in college, the friendships that you made.  And some people criticize my college decision.  But I think they're foolish because I would never have gone anywhere else if we lost every single game in college.  I love the guys I've met and I loved my experience here.   
 Q.  Talk about the advice (inaudible) you're the first person to say you wish would have --  
JOSH ROSEN: It's a tough pill to swallow.  But there's not really an option to go back and change it.  So you either push forwards or you regret the past and let it affect your future in a negative way.   
So the only really option, the only really positive option I guess is to suck it up, move on and try to do better.  And that's what we're doing.   
 Q.  Who do you think has been the most instrumental (inaudible)?  
JOSH ROSEN: I talk to Brett a great amount.  Brett's been very helpful.  Jerry Neuheisel, too.  Initially, my freshman year, Jerry helped me out a ton.  He was incredibly unselfish with the difficult circumstances.  Mike Fafaul helped me out a lot.  He was one of my really close buddies last year.   
And Brett throughout has kind of been in and out.  When I was at the Steve Clarkson camp in San Diego the last two years he was there.  He's been a great mentor, someone I feel I can bounce ideas off of.   
And the quarterbacks around college football are a lot more supportive than people think.  It's not all animosity.  I'll talk to Sam every now and then.  Talk to Jake Browning up at UW.  I'll talk to -- shoot Baker a text every now and then.  Got cool with Will Grier at some camps.  So a lot of us are really close and we're all supporting each other, because it would be foolish to root against one another, because we're all trying to chase our dreams and accomplish the same goals.  So it's all good and fun.  At the end of the day, it's just a game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT