BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2016
Haanif Cheatham
Henry Ellenson
Steve Wojciechowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








St. John's - 93, Marquette - 101
THE MODERATOR: We have Haanif Cheatham, Henry Ellenson and Coach Steve Wojciechowski.
STEVE WOJCIECHOWSKI: Obviously very proud of our team.  You know, any time you win in a Big East Tournament game it means a great deal.  This was an unusual situation for us because over 70% of our team had never set foot in this building, and we weren't able to have a shoot-around today.  So when they walked in they were wide-eyed.  When we get the New York Knicks' locker room, and the guys are all taking pictures.  There's a game to play here, fellas.
I thought we started the game overall playing very good offense.  We were able to build a lead because we were sharing the ball offensively.  We were able to get our offense in good spots.  We were able to drive and attack the basket and get to the free-throw line.  In the second half I thought we started off the second half just okay.  And then we let up on the defensive end.  You know they're going to make a run.
The only pressure they're feeling at that point when they're down 16 is the pressure you apply to them, and we weren't able to apply good enough pressure to them.  And that's why they came back.
But, again, our guys had amazing game pressure on them.  Our team responded, especially these two young guys.  You know, Henry and Haney, obviously Henry was well-deserved Rookie of the Year in this conference.  Haney along with Henry these are two of the best players in America.  We've asked these two young guys from the time that we've recruited them to bear a great deal of responsibility, and that means stepping up and making plays in high-pressure situations.  And these guys have done it more times than not.
We've been in 13 games where the games have been decided by five points or less; we've won ten of them.  And a lot of them have been a result of the plays that these two guys have made.
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Coach, you were up points in the paint 28-16 at the half and then finished the advantage 44-40.  What do you think was working so well for St. John's in the paint in the second half?
STEVE WOJCIECHOWSKI: I thought they drove the ball stronger.  I didn't think our on-ball defense -- one of the things our pressure did in the first half was turn them over.  In the second half I didn't think we had the same level of intensity.  So they got by us and got the ball into the paint.
And then we fouled a lot.  So that took a little bit of our aggressiveness away, too.  I think it was kind of a combination of both those things.  We have to play our defense hard without fouling.
Obviously there's a renewed emphasis on the emphasis, I guess, because both teams shot a boatload of -- there's a boatload of fouls called.  And that's I guess the way this team tournament is going to go to be played, but you have to adjust.
Q. What can you say about JaJuan Johnson and the spark he provided especially on the defensive end?
STEVE WOJCIECHOWSKI: J.J., I thought he had one of his more mature games.  He didn't have our regular season closer at Butler.  He wasn't the J.J. that we had become accustomed to over the last six weeks, somebody that we were dependent on.  We wanted him to shake it up a little bit to see how he responded.  And he responded in a big-time way.
I thought it started with his defense.  He got five steals.  His activity in the first half gave us a huge boost.  And I was really proud of the way he responded to the challenge.
Q. Henry, can you talk about winning this award and come out here and have a big game in this game?  Also, this is your first game playing here; what it was it like in the Knicks' locker room?
HENRY ELLENSON: It was a long game.  Coach let us sleep in a little bit because he knew it.  It was a later game.  It was an honor to go receive the award here.  Really special to be named Big East Freshman of the Year, and something I have to thank my teammates and my coaches for helping me get that -- help me learn each day and get me better.
And then we go back and have a pre-game meal and come here again.  My jersey is in Melo's locker.  That gives me a big smile.  The people taking pictures of the locker, that was me.
And so then it was a quicker warmup.  So we had to adjust to that, too.  Haney did a heck of a job getting our team started.  The guards did a great job getting me going.  I was struggling a little bit.  I had some turnovers.  Teammates kept picking me up, kept giving me confidence and I was able to have a good rest of the game.  It's been a great day.
Q. This is for the Coach:  You have a game tomorrow.
STEVE WOJCIECHOWSKI: Today.  We have Xavier today.
Q. What's the mindset going into that game?
STEVE WOJCIECHOWSKI: We're going to pull out the AAU handbook on two games in one day, and see how the best advance in the platinum division.
In all seriousness, you know, we'll get back to the hotel late.  We'll try to get our guys hydrated, get some food and let them try to get some rest.  In games like this your adrenaline is pumping.  So we want them to get hydrated and get as much rest as possible.  When they get up tomorrow, we'll do a scouting report on Xavier.
They know who Xavier is.  Xavier is a team that is capable of winning a national championship.  Chris Mack really could be National Coach of the Year.  He's done a remarkable job with his team, and they have a number of different weapons.
Our guys have played them -- we've had our chances against them.  We know we'll have to be at our best in order to beat them.  We feel very fortunate to have that opportunity.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT