MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 21, 2017
Steve Wojciechowski
Markus Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Wichita State - 80, Marquette - 66
THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Marquette to the media room.  Coach Wojciechowski and Markus Howard.
STEVE WOJCIECHOWSKI: We have tremendous respect for Wichita State.  They're a team that's going to have an outstanding season and is capable of winning a National Championship with their talent and their experience and their coaching.
We knew it would be a very difficult game for us.  I thought our kids played hard and competed.  We need to add to those elements, a greater attention to detail, and a little bit higher basketball IQ.
Q. Markus, the last two games you and Rowsey have been the leading scorers.  You guys are obviously the major part of your team.  What do you have to do to get your big boys involved?
MARKUS HOWARD: I think we have to look for them more in the post, and feeding off that.  You have to play inside out rather than outside in.  I think more so, just getting involved in lots of ball screens and looking to pick and pop with them.  Also, initiating offense with the post feed.  So just little things like that gets the offense moving and changes it up.
STEVE WOJCIECHOWSKI: Yeah, and one of our big boys was in horrendous foul trouble in Sam Hauser.  He's a big boy, too, and for him to play three minutes in the first half, that's a hard thing for our team.  Because like Markus and Andrew, he's an outstanding college player.
The foul trouble, I thought we withstood it.  Unfortunately, for Sam, I thought he never caught his rhythm.  For you guys who haven't seen him play, Sam's one of the better players in the United States, and that foul trouble really hurt us.
Q. Other than Howard and Rowsey, no one had more than five points.  What do you think was going on there?  Was it shots weren't falling or something else?
STEVE WOJCIECHOWSKI: Well, our offense is centered around our two most dynamic scorers, which are Andrew and Markus, so those guys are going to shoot a lot.  The third piece of that puzzle, Sam Hauser.  Like I just mentioned, he wasn't in the game very much.  When he was, he didn't have great rhythm.  I thought we got good shots from the other guys.  We didn't make them.  I mean, I think when we watch the tape, I think we probably had ten wide-open shots that didn't drop, and sometimes that happens.  I believe in my guys.  When they're open, I want them taking those shots.  And I think more times than not, they'll knock them down.  But of those ten open threes we missed, we would normally make four of them because we have a good shooting team.  Tonight we didn't.  So that's why you see the box score looking like it did.
Our interior guys are young.  Matt's -- I love Matt Heldt.  I wouldn't trade him for anyone.  He's everything I want in a Marquette basketball player.  Interior scoring, back-to-the-basket scoring is not his strongest suit.  And Theo John is a puppy.  He's trying to figure it out.  He's playing on a super highway, and his whole life, he's been used to riding on dirt country roads.
Q. Coach, you kind of let off speaking about Wichita State's championship potential, and looking at their scoring distribution today, is that a lot of what goes into making them a tough opponent?
STEVE WOJCIECHOWSKI: They have outstanding coaching.  They have tremendous experience.  They have terrific offensive balance.  They have a pro point guard.  They have a strong identity in roles and definition, and they've got a terrific bench.
Other than that, they're not very good (laughing).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT