BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 27, 2009
Lukasz Kubot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRYAN-BRYAN/Kubot-Marach
  6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. After winning your first two matches, that must be pretty frustrating?   
 LUKASZ KUBOT: Well, frustrating? This is tennis. We saw it yesterday with the situation with Murray. Just one game decided he didn't go through, even though he won two matches in the group. That's life.   
 As we said in the beginning, we came here to this tournament to learn something. We didn't expect from us anything, just to go on the court and work hard and fight for every point and, you know, try to get experience for another year, and maybe hopefully for another time to play here again.   
 So we are actually now a little bit down, you know, mentally down because we knew we had a chance to win even one set to qualify. But Bryans played very good today. They deserved to win. They had a very high percentage of first serve. We have to take it as a lesson.   
 For sure it will make motivation -- more motivation for us to work even harder and work on our weak points. We have to improve our game. Still it was very nice adventure here for the first time.   
  
  Q. When you're playing, is it going through your mind, the various scenarios that you need to win a set to go through, or are you just focused on winning?   
 LUKASZ KUBOT: I knew, I was just trying to play point to point, try to focus. We knew that we gonna have problems with return, you know, especially of Bob's serve, you know, lefty. They served huge today. I mean, I'm actually surprised how well Mike returned today. He had very high percentage of the returns. They were aggressive, putting pressure even when we served first serves.   
 Yeah, I didn't think about this one set. I was really trying to enjoy. We didn't have time, even a chance to break them today.  
  
  Q. Do you see them going on to win the tournament?   
 LUKASZ KUBOT: I think they have a chance to win, yes. They played very well today. Mirnyi and Ram are playing very well also. Especially Andy, he's on fire, you have to say. But I would think one of the teams from our group will win the tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT