BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 25, 2009
Lukasz Kubot
Oliver Marach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KUBOT-MARACH/Mirnyi-Ram
4-6, 6-4, 16-14

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What a finish to the match. 
 OLIVER MARACH: Yeah. It's tough to say who was better today because it's so close. Just one, two points decide. 
 Well, first two sets they dominated. I mean, the first set, untouchable. Couldn't break Mirnyi. Every serve was over 125 miles. The only chance sometimes we saw was on Ram's serve. He had unbelievable reaction volleys. 
 Second set, Lukasz was returning very well. When we did the break, I had two great forehand shots passing them, was the only chance we get to break. After that I started serving also better. We closed in the second set. 
 Champions tiebreak is very close always. We can lose this one. We are very strong in the head this year always. We had like tricks champions tiebreaks around. We win like 80% or even higher out of it. Like today, I don't know, we didn't show the nerves like during it, but after we were happy that we won it because it was very tight, every point. 
 We had two, three shots on match points. I missed one forehand easy in the net. The second one, they played very well, on Ram, the second match point. 
 In the end, we were happy I served very well out on match point. But it was a very tight battle. We were very happy we won this match. It was very important for us.

 Q. How many match points did you have against you?
 OLIVER MARACH: One, two. We had also two rallies on match points. I don't remember. It's too close, everything. You're just happy you win at the end. I don't know, it was 16-14, 18-16, something like that. You're just happy you are happy you win at the end. I think Lukasz was also happy it was a good fight from us. 

 Q. Two wins out of two now. 
 LUKASZ KUBOT: Yes, perfect. We were playing point to point, like Oliver said. There's no doubts, our opponents were a better team in the first set. They were dominating. We played three times now ad on our serve. We were trying to hold the serve. We were fighting for it. We had only one chance on Ram's serve in the second set. We made it. 
 We were just concentrating on our serve. There were a lot of emotion in the super tiebreak. We were just also fighting, playing point to point. 
 Maybe we didn't show the best tennis, but it's tough in this high level in front of 10,000 or more people to show your best tennis when you are playing first time, you know, in this tournament. 
 So we are happy we made it. Of course, we were lucky in the end. But we kept the emotions and we were fighting. We're happy to win the second match and looking forward for the third match. 

 Q. What is the main key for your success when you play together in doubles? 
 OLIVER MARACH: It's tough to say, but I guess we are a very rare double. We don't play service-volley everybody. Lukasz plays service-volley. I play from the back. It's tough to get a rhythm from us. 
 On my serve they have to play aggressive in front of the return. On Lukasz, it's tough. He plays sometimes service-volley. They get no rhythm. He's returning very well. He is shooting the return down at the net very hard. I play the return mostly under the knees, then try to hit it hard with my groundstrokes. It's not so easy for the opponents to get the rhythm also. 
 But still we have to work also, like I said last interview, like service-volley me sometimes, make some changes in our game. But so far we do very well. I mean, we beat two very good teams this week. We come here to play for every match. So I hope it's enough for one, two, maybe three more matches. 
 Well, it's tough to say. We play against the top eight teams in the world. Everybody can play well. We go with the same effort here now from match to match, and we try to win the next match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT