BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 23, 2009
Lukasz Kubot
Oliver Marach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 KUBOT-MARACH/Dlouhy-Paes
  6-4, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you sum up the reasons why you managed to win over this team?   
 OLIVER MARACH: Well, we had a good tactic, I would say. We make a paper before the tournament against the opponents, put against everybody a tactic. We were practicing the last days every shot what we have to play.   
 There was some battles out today in the doubles, but that's doubles. I mean, it looked like Marach, everybody want to hit each one, but this can happen.   
 At the end, it was very open in the second set, first set. Lukasz was serving very well. He had a lot of free points with his serve. In the second set was some tight points. I would say we had two times ad point down. We played them very well. We came up in the tiebreak. In the tiebreak we played very well, I have to say, from 3-All on. We played four important points.   
 Well, in doubles, it's very close. Just one, two points decide. At the end, this was our key that we win in the tiebreak, and so the match, too.   
  
  Q. This ball in the first set when they claimed it touched you...   
 OLIVER MARACH: Yes, I know. I told Leander, If it touches me, it goes in front. I don't know if it touched my shirt or something, but he said it touched. So, I mean, we make the break. Got the rebreak right away. The match was open, so...   
 You know, it was the first point of the game, too. So I don't know what to say about that.   
  
  Q. It's the best season in your career. How do you feel in a tournament where you play the best of the best?  
 OLIVER MARACH: For us, it's unbelievable. I mean, nobody expected we would be here at the beginning of the year. We started 70 in the ranking. We were closing in Australia. That was our basement. After this tournament, we played semifinal, and we had a good ranking. We played a very solid season. We win like three smaller tournaments. Let's say after Wimbledon, we saw we were still good in the Race and we can do this.   
 For us, it's unbelievable to be here. I mean, it's amazing effort from us. We work very hard the whole year. We have our fitness coach all the time with us. They are just less days we have really day off, I would say. We do almost every day fitness. And the day off is our traveling day most of the time home. I think it's an achievement for us here because really our work is very hard. Even Lukasz work more. He's playing also singles. For him, it's more tough, I would say.   
 I'm very happy that we are sitting here today, and also of course that we win the first round. Generally here in this Masters, it's a very nice appreciation for us.   
  
  Q. What do you want to do here? Semifinal? Final?   
 OLIVER MARACH: I would say first, after Wimbledon, our goal was to be here. Then after we knew we were here, I say, Okay, now we have to set a new target for us because it's not good for us just to say, Okay, we come here, we are here, we have no targets. That's the wrong thinking.   
 My thinking, our thinking was, A, semifinal is a nice idea. We saw the group. Everything is possible again in this group. We just lost against the Bryans, and the other two guys we never played before. So we don't know what's gonna happen. We gonna try. Go out each match, try our best, and we will see what's gonna happen.   
 But we're very positive. We're a new team coming up this year. Now they know us. Before they didn't know us. That was also our, let's say, weapon a little bit. But, well, tomorrow, we will have a nice practice. Again, we have to see who we play now. Some tactical things. Let's rock again, I will say.   
 Want to talk also?   
 LUKASZ KUBOT: If I get a question (smiling).   
  
  Q. Were there any nerves playing in front of so many people?   
 LUKASZ KUBOT: Yes, like Oliver said, was the target to just play here. I think our advantage was we played the last doubles match of these two days. We saw that all the favorite teams lost. We also believed this we have nothing to lose. We can go and just show up and enjoy the game, you know.   
 We did. I have to say, honestly, I was nervous in the beginning, but then I held the pressure.   
 OLIVER MARACH: I was more (laughter).   
 LUKASZ KUBOT: And I was trying just telling myself, Just enjoy to be on center court in London in front of 10,000 people, maybe more.   
 OLIVER MARACH: 15 (laughter).   
 LUKASZ KUBOT: Play point to point and enjoy it and see what's gonna happen.   
 Well, it's first time. I think the crowd is unbelievable. It's probably the best tournament organized, by far. I really like it. I enjoy every moment to be here. Yes, we won today a battle, I have to say, and we're looking forward for each match.   
 Tomorrow, we have a day off. We're going to prepare for another match. Hope we're going to be ready and enjoy another game as well as today.   
  
  Q. You mentioned some of the lower seeds have beaten the higher seeds. Why do you think the doubles is turning out to be so open this year?   
 LUKASZ KUBOT: Well, you see the seeds, it doesn't matter, especially at this tournament. It's the end of the year, a lot of teams are tired. They have many matches behind themselves. So I think the seeds doesn't really matter here in this big tournament. You know, everybody just wants to go and show their best. After this tournament, probably everybody will finish the season.   
 So it's best eight teams. I don't think there's any difference between the top seeds and the lower seeds. I don't see any difference. Like they say the results, all the top teams lost. It's just in what kind of shape the players are. They are motivated for sure.   
 Everybody is motivated, but if they are prepared, you know, physical. Of course, it's also pressure. I don't know how do they feel, the other guys. A lot of times they already played the Masters. But for us, we came here to enjoy. You know, it's not easy to go on the center court in front of so many people and try to play the best tennis, not to be nervous.   
 But this is experience for us, and I think we will learn from that and we will take the best for another tournaments.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT