WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2013
Lukasz Kubot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. KUBOT/A. Mannarino
  4‑6, 6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tell us about the dance, the can‑can at the end?  
LUKASZ KUBOT:   I don't think it's something new, is it?   Maybe the new reporter here.   No, it's something come up a couple years ago.   We had a couple things in our team.   My team told me, my coaches, that every time I'm gonna play on the big courts, the big tournaments, big events, I should do the can‑can after win.  
So I have no other chances and I had to do it.  
   
 Q.   Why the can‑can?  
LUKASZ KUBOT:   Because it's one of our exercise when we are practicing.   Coaches like when I put my legs very high.   So it stays until now.  
   
 Q.   You had a lot of practice with it this week.   
LUKASZ KUBOT:   Yes, I mean...   (smiling.)   
   
 Q.   Do you do it after doubles as well?  
LUKASZ KUBOT:   No, just singles.  
   
 Q.   So this is about the first time you've done it four times in a tournament.   
LUKASZ KUBOT:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   And you don't cause yourself any injuries with it?  
LUKASZ KUBOT:   By far, no.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the fifth set?   The first two games there was a turning point.   The first game of the fifth, eight dueces.   Do you think that was the turning point of that fifth set?  
LUKASZ KUBOT:   Yes.   I think the first game was the key, to be honest, like you said.  
I took my momentum.   I took it when he didn't serve well.   He served very good I think three sets.   They were all very good.   Didn't face many break points in the first three sets.  
I knew I have a chance, so I just was trying to put the pressure on.   I was very happy that I win the opening game if the fifth set, because then I started to believe more in my service games.   
Besides the second game of the fifth set, I won my games pretty comfortable.   I'm happy that I serve out in the end of the match.   So I still had a chance to break him for 3‑All, but he save it with a good serve.   
I was just trying to waiting and hold my serve.   I'm pretty happy that I have done very well in the last game.  
   
 Q.   What made the difference as a singles player?   Obviously you come into singles, or your record in singles has been far better in the last three years than it ever was early on in your career.   
LUKASZ KUBOT:   Yes, I think the transition from doubles to singles.   I have played a lot doubles big events, and I try to play also qualifications on the big tour events.  
I had the chance to practice with the big guys, so I was always trying very hard.   These matches, like I said in the big events on the big courts on doubles helped me a lot, you know.   
When I had a chance to compete in singles, I use it, and it wasn't anything new for me to stay on the Centre Court or big show courts.  
You know, was also lucky with the draws, you know, to be honest.   When I had chances I used them.   That's how I came into the top 100 and top 50 three years ago.   
With the transition from doubles, when I played the big, high tour events, all main draw, we were playing twice Masters with Oliver Marach, and I was playing very relaxed in the singles.   
I came to the top 100 and top 50 and I am there since last three years, so I'm happy for that.  
   
 Q.   So when you were younger you didn't like playing or didn't react very well to playing on the big courts, the big matches?  
LUKASZ KUBOT:   Well, to be honest, when I was younger I didn't have anyone who could tell me to risk and play maybe qualifications in the big tour events.   I was trying to play challengers and wanted through challengers to go to top 100.   I had a chance, but I didn't make it.  
Suddenly I decided to play full‑time doubles and then also try to play singles.   This all happened all together, like i said.   These transitions with playing doubles main draw every week and have a chance, a possibility to practice with all the top players, you know, gave me a lot of, let's say, practice and chance.   
So I didn't feel surprised.   It wasn't something new for me when I pass the quallies in the Grand Slams and then I had a chance to play on the big courts.   
   
 Q.   In terms of Jerzy, obviously you finished your matches pretty much at the same time.   Must have been great to know he had got through as well and you're going to play each other.   
LUKASZ KUBOT:   Yes, we haven't played yet.   I think it's big moment for Polish tennis, two players in the quarterfinal of Wimbledon.   I think at the moment I have no words.   Just have to be honest.   I'm very surprised.   I'm looking forward for this match.   
Whatever happens, one ever us will be in semifinal, which makes already history for Polish tennis.   
Let's see what's going to happen.   We both will have a big fight.  
   
 Q.   Do you a laugh and a joke normally when you see each other?  
LUKASZ KUBOT:   Yes.   Since we team up together in the Davis Cup team, we are trying to use these chances to stay all the time together.   And since the big boom from Jerzy last year in Paris when he made final in Bercy, you know, he has more, let's say more confidence and is more dangerous for the guys they top.   He's chasing top 10.   I know this.  
I think for both of us it's open match, and I hope, you know, the better player will win this day.  
   
 Q.   Have you got any funny stories about him?   He seems a character on court.   Off the court is he the same?  
LUKASZ KUBOT:   Yeah, Jerzy is very strong character.   He's the same like he's on the court.   You know, he's strong mentally.   He just wants to win everything.   Whatever he does, he just wants to win.  
Besides the court, I think he's easygoing.   
   
 Q.   Anything funny about him that we should know about from someone who knows him well?  
LUKASZ KUBOT:   No.   
   
 Q.   What's the Polish tennis scene like?   Are a lot of people playing as kids?   
LUKASZ KUBOT:   For me, to ask this question, you should go to Poland and see what's going to happen.   I think this generation with Polish tennis came up with Radwanska sisters who played Polish doubles, Fyrstenberg, Matkowski, they started to put us in the map of international tennis.  
Then I came up also from the doubles to singles now.   Janowicz is here.   Michal Przysiezny which is chasing also top 100.   I think we have, to be honest, very strong Davis Cup team at this stage.   And as I see, people loves them.   Because I remember when Jerzy was in the final of Bercy in Paris, everybody was living with this momentum.   They show tennis and his matches live on TV.  
So I think that tennis is getting very popular in Poland, and I'm happy and proud we can represent our country in those kind of tournaments.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT