U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2018
Kelsey Chugg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You were getting a little tired out there?
KELSEY CHUGG: Yes.
Q. Was it hitting you?
KELSEY CHUGG: Uh-huh, for sure, fatigue on the back nine, and just hanging on.  I was like, just hit fairways and greens, and trying to get through the thing, and she was really, really clutch coming down the stretch.  The 5-wood she hit in or whatever she hit in to 15 was incredible, to have that little eagle putt.  It really put the pressure on me to make that birdie.  And yeah, I was feeling it, though.
Q. Is it more mental than physical at that point?
KELSEY CHUGG: A little of both, yeah.  I'm feeling okay physically, but I'm looking forward to some rest and hopefully can clear my mind tonight.
Q. Just tell me a little bit about -- I know you're playing in the championship match tomorrow to make it two years in a row, which would be phenomenal, but how has the last year prepared you for this championship, your accomplishments, your maturity since you won last year?  Has it been all of that?
KELSEY CHUGG: Yeah, I was actually thinking about that today during the round.  Just maybe I'm able to control my nerves a little bit more now than I was last year at this time, and that's due to playing in some of the bigger events and being in this situation before.  But it certainly helped coming down the stretch to be able to talk myself through some things and walk myself out the ledge.
Q. And obviously having played on some of those stages, it probably helps to maybe elevate your game a little bit, and you can say, okay, I've been in a situation like this?
KELSEY CHUGG: Yes.
Q. And you can draw from it?
KELSEY CHUGG: Yeah, definitely.  I didn't play well in some of the bigger events this year, but I felt like my game was as good as some of the top players, and I was able to hang with them.  So I think it's going to come.  It's helped me a lot this year.
Q. And this week, obviously, I know the match with Julia yesterday was emotional and tough, and you gutted through it.
KELSEY CHUGG: Yes.
Q. Was that the toughest of the week do you think?
KELSEY CHUGG: Yeah, they've all been pretty tough.  Stasi was tough this morning.  She had a rough start but really hung in there.  She's a veteran player, and she's really good.  So hanging tough with her helped me out a bit.  And then what Gretchen did this afternoon, it was tough to keep playing and keep my mind straight through all that.
Q. I know this has been a great stage for you.  Have you heard from a lot of people this week?
KELSEY CHUGG: Oh, for sure, yeah.  I've had overwhelming support from back home and friends and family and my Utah Golf Association staff and family, and it's been wonderful.
Q. Who's your caddie?
KELSEY CHUGG: Bill Rudd.  He's a member out here.  Luck of the draw.  I got him for the week, and he's been awesome.
Q. Is it nice to have the local eyes on these greens?
KELSEY CHUGG: Yeah, for sure.  For sure.  He's been really helpful.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT