U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2017
Kelsey Chugg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, here you are again.  Maybe it wasn't easy, but it looked easy.  Was it easy?
KELSEY CHUGG: No.  I mean, I was nervous and just tried to stick to my game plan:  fairways and greens and hit good two-putts or try and make them.  Haven't made many putts yet, but the greens are getting slick, so...
Q. But you got off to a good start today.
KELSEY CHUGG: I did.  I made birdie 1st hole.
Q. Tell me how you did that.
KELSEY CHUGG: I hit it up the left side.  I was actually trying to hit my 6-iron towards the middle of the green, and it turned over a little bit and I was maybe like 25 feet short of the hole.
I just made the putt up and over and tried to feel it in there.
Q. Then you won a couple holes with pars.  Good two-putt at the 9th.
KELSEY CHUGG: Yeah, that one was -- my caddie talked me through that one.  I wanted to go more at the pin with my third shot.  He's like, Nope.  Go to the middle of the green and we'll two-putt down there.
Q. What did you have in on the 9th?
KELSEY CHUGG: I think 120, pitching wedge.  That bunker comes in more than it looks like over there, so it was more of a strategy-type thing.
Q. And she got in a little trouble off the tee.
KELSEY CHUGG: Yeah.  That made that decision easier.
Q. And then won a lot of other holes with pars on the back.  Any of those pars that you would say, Whoa, that was a good par I made?
KELSEY CHUGG: I made a good par on -- is it 12 the par-3?
Q. Yep.
KELSEY CHUGG: I hit it to the right edge of the green and I was more in the fringe area and hit like a high pitch shot up by the hole to like four, five feet and made that putt.
Q. What club did you use on that high pitch?
KELSEY CHUGG: A 60-degree lob wedge.
Q. And what did you hit off the tee?
KELSEY CHUGG: I hit a 4-iron off the tee today.  It was playing about 180, I think.
Q. Yeah.  You talked about how the first day you were a little out the sorts; you didn't have a caddie and everything.  Have you felt a comfort level get to be more as you play this course every day?
KELSEY CHUGG: Yeah.  I like the golf course.  Chris has been great.  Just having someone to talk to and kind of go through every shot has been awesome.
Q. Does it suit your eye?  What is it about this course?
KELSEY CHUGG: Yeah, a lot of holes do.  The greens are big, so that can be good and can be bad.
Off the tee it's pretty good, and I like the approach shots.  Just a beautiful golf course.
Q. And also, finally, tell me about who you're hearing from back home?  What's the response you're getting?
KELSEY CHUGG: A lot the friends and family; everybody is just so excited.  They're just like, Keep going, keep going; do it.  So a lot of encouragement.
Q. Are they using phone calls, texts, e-mails?
KELSEY CHUGG: Both, yeah.  Mostly text and some social media stuff, too.  It's pretty cool.
Q. When you look at your phone sometimes is it overwhelming?
KELSEY CHUGG: Yeah, like after the round yesterday afternoon I had like 46 text messages.  I was like, What is going on?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT