ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 29, 2020
Ritu Moni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
New Zealand - 91 (18.2), Bangladesh - 74 (19.5)   
 Q.  At the halfway stage what was the discussion and because you were in a position to win the game as favourites at that stage did that increase the pressure on you?  
RITU MONI: Yes, in the middle, after the first innings, we planned to go not for quick or hard-hitting batting, just tried to be calm and quiet. But in the end we were not able to bat well and that was really a poor performance from us. But credit goes to New Zealand, of course, because of the way they bowled, and the credit goes to them.   
 Q.  Just one overall on the tournament, how would you describe this standard of fielding that we're seeing in this tournament? And Bangladesh's own fielding as well as the other team, a lot of dropped catches, a lot of missed ground fielding. And do you think it's up to the standard we've seen in women's cricket? And if not, why?  
RITU MONI: Over the years we've improved a lot in respect of women's cricket. Our fielding is of much better standard than we've shown the last couple of matches. And, yes, we think about that and then today our fielding was a bit better. But we're not substandard or we're not behind with other teams.   
 Q.  Why do you think overall the fielding may have been perhaps below for other teams as well in this World Cup? Is there a reason, extra pressure, something like this that we've seen so many dropped catches?  
RITU MONI: Conditions, of course.   
 Q.  What is the thinking behind the decision to bat you at No. 3 today?  
RITU MONI: No. 3 is actually my batting position, that's why I played No. 3.   
 Q.  Overall you've played Australia and New Zealand for the first time ever. Why do you think you've never had more series with them? And do you think that needs to change, that they need to play teams like Bangladesh more often in battles?  
RITU MONI: Yes, of course, we need to play regular cricket series with the top-ranked team because that is the only way we can improve because we can compare ourselves where we are. So we look forward to that because the more we'll play with the top-ranked team, the more we will improve. Definitely this is one of the key things to improve our cricket.   
 Q.  [Question in Bangla language]  
RITU MONI: Yes, of course it's very inspiring for me that a player like Sophie, she plays. And I'll take this as an inspiration and I'll look forward to develop myself more.   
 Q.  So in the innings break, you spoke about how your coaching staff. Can you talk about the specific aspects they've helped you improve in?  
RITU MONI: Yeah, the coaches always emphasise on bowling on the right place and right spot and right length and line and length.   
 Q.  If you could talk a bit about your background, how you started playing cricket. You're a resident of Bogra, which has produced a lot of super Bangladesh women cricketers and men cricketers as well and. Your inspiration and idols, whomever you've looked up to.  
RITU MONI: Yes, she lost her coach while we were in here during the ICC support period. He he inspired her a lot, and she started training under him. And it was him for whom she's here. She became very emotional on that because it could have been a great day for him if he was coaching right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT