NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v NATIONALS
October 7, 2012
Jaime Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How much does your experiences pitching in the playoffs last year and the World Series, how does that prepare you as you look at tomorrow's start and doing it again?   
JAIME GARCIA:   Well, it definitely helps a little bit because you've been out there in a situation like we are in right now, but at the same time, I don't really‑‑ you take what you learned from last year, but you know, I'm just going to try to do the same thing that I try to do every time I go out there.   I just give my best and give my team a chance to win, and that's all I basically worry about.   
   
 Q.   Your last start against Washington was the last one before you kind of corrected things and right when you came back from the DL, is there something that happened in that start or the few starts before that you were able to identify and correct, or maybe something that happened after that explains how you've done since?   
JAIME GARCIA:   Yeah, I've said this before, that start in Washington, I actually felt pretty good.   It's one of those things where they had a really good lineup and a really good team, and made a couple mistakes and paid the consequences.   I can't really tell you the reason why I pitched is because I was doing something wrong and then I found something; that's not the case.   You have a good team.  
I'm just going to go out there tomorrow and try to execute pitches.   
   
 Q.   For you guys as a team, given what happened in Washington, how big was it, that series a week ago, where you took two‑out‑of‑three, and not only took two‑out‑of‑three but handled them a couple of times?  
JAIME GARCIA:   It was huge.   They came in here‑‑ they have one of the best teams in the National League year, they have a really young, talented team and it was huge for us knowing that we can compete and we can go out there and win some ballgames.   
But at the same time, post‑season is different, and now we've got to lock it in today and go out there and try to win the ballgame.   
   
 Q.   What challenges does this Washington lineup present?   I know you've faced them a few times; what do you see there from the guys?   
JAIME GARCIA:   Well, they are good.   Like I said, they got a really good group of guys that can swing the bat really good.   I'm just going to prepare myself really good mentally, and watch some videos and things that I need to do.   The bottom line is just go out there and give it my best shot and try to keep us in the game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT