MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v CARDINALS
October 19, 2011
Jaime Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. If there's been a description that you've used since Spring Training through the year to describe this year, you've called it a learning experience and how each start gave you something to grow on for the next one. What are the differences that you've seen in post-season starts as opposed to regular season starts that you've kind of now, having gone through it a few times, can kind of bring to tomorrow? 
 JAIME GARCIA: Well, first of all, I try to take any post-season start just as any other regular game during the season. You know, just go out there and don't put too much pressure on yourself and just basically you have to focus on what you can control, that's it. 
 But to be honest with you, the last month of the year is the best I've felt all year because I learned a lot. Obviously a little tired physically, but I was able to make some adjustments on some stuff that I was working on all year. And the last three starts I've made in the post-season, with the exception of the one I made in Milwaukee, I felt pretty good. I've been feeling good physically, good mentally. Had a lot of confidence on the mound and I'm going to try to carry it into the game tomorrow.

 Q. Tomorrow it's supposed to be windy and cool again, kind of like tonight. How does that change things? Do you have much experience pitching in windy and cold conditions? 
 JAIME GARCIA: Well, I've had a little experience, not much. But I actually kind of like -- I'd rather pitch in a little cool or cold than 100 degrees. Like I said, if it's really cold, I'm just going to go out there and try not to worry about it and just get ready. But try to put less -- the less things I put in my head, the less pressure. 

 Q. Do the Rangers remind you of any National League team or are they just totally different from any team you've pitched against? 
 JAIME GARCIA: You know, obviously they've got a really good team, really good lineup. They were the best team in the American League. It's a tough team to pitch against. You know, just like a Milwaukee team that they've got a really good lineup, good team. But I don't really -- you can't really compare them to anybody else because obviously they're in the World Series, and they've done a lot of good things, so...

 Q. You've been effective here. Is there a comfort level that comes from the mound, from the dimensions, anything in particular that allows you to be successful here? 
 JAIME GARCIA: Well, yeah, of course, being at home with the home fans and like sleeping in your own bed and things like that. But I've said this a bunch of times before, where it doesn't really get in my head where I go on the road and I don't like it or I get frustrated or something. It affects me on the mound mentally; it doesn't. It's happened this year where I go on the road and it's a tough game. You have the battles on the road and the good ones at home. Me personally, I don't really see anything different that I do. 
 But yeah, obviously I like pitching here. 

 Q. You talked about the learning experience and kind of learning from your experiences next time out. You don't have any history or experience against these hitters. What kind of challenge is that for you tomorrow, not having any prior at-bats against these guys?
 JAIME GARCIA: Well, obviously, like I say, they've got a really good lineup, a lot of really good hitters. But I'm going to look at some video tonight and tomorrow, but at the end of the day, I'm basically going to go out there and do my thing, just worry about the little things of the game that I've been working on all year. Just got to get ahead in the count, keep the ball down and just basically keep them out of balance. 
 But it's going to be a challenge. They've never faced me, I've never faced them. But I'm just going to go out there and try to do my thing. 

 Q. Yesterday there were some international crews that were up here that were asking Tony and bringing to light the fact that you're the first, I guess, Mexican pitcher since Fernando Valenzuela to start in the World Series. What kind of reaction are you getting from Mexico? And how significant is it that a lot of people are viewing this as a pretty big deal for you?
 JAIME GARCIA: Well, obviously that's really exciting. Really feel very proud because of that. I just found out yesterday, too, when they were asking me. I'm thrilled to hear that, and I'm going to go out there and represent the team, my family and not only my hometown but the whole country of Mexico. I know they've been really good, watching me the whole year in these playoffs, and I'm really proud of that. 

 Q. A couple of questions back you said you preferred cold over extreme heat. What specifically as a pitcher works to your advantage when there is kind of cold conditions like there will be today and tomorrow?
 JAIME GARCIA: I don't think it works to my advantage. I think it's more personal preference. Like, I feel like if it's 120 degrees or 110 and it's really humid, you can't stop sweating and I sweat a lot. So it's like a personal thing. Obviously when it's a little colder you've got to stay warm, but you're not sweating as much. So more so like that, but not something that's going to be to my advantage or anything. 

 Q. In your last start against Milwaukee, I would imagine you thought you had things going pretty well, but with the way that series went Tony was very aggressive going to the bullpen. And even during the regular season he might have let you pitch through the situation you got into. How does that alter things for you? How does that alter the look of maybe what you have to accomplish in a start and how much latitude you may have once you get into that start? 
 JAIME GARCIA: Well, obviously every time you go out there, you want to go as deep as you can, and me as -- any starting pitcher would say that, that if you don't go six innings, you feel like you let your team down. But when it comes down to the playoffs and the job the bullpen has been doing has been unbelievable. All I worry about tomorrow, when tomorrow comes, I'm going to go out there and try and go as deep as I can. Just focus on one single pitch at a time until he takes me out of the game. If it's three, if it's five, six, seven or nine, that's out of my control. I'm just going to go out there and make pitches until he takes me out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT