NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CARDINALS v BREWERS
October 13, 2011
Jaime Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How quickly were you able to put the last start kind of out of your mind, and is that something this season that you've worked on is trying to, when you do struggle, get rid of that as fast as you can and focus ahead to the next one?   
 JAIME GARCIA: You know what, I'm just one of those starters that things are really ready, and I've got a good team. I've said this before, I feel really good about myself, physically, mentally, and I'm ready to go. Really excited about tomorrow, but first, today. We have to win today. But I'm ready to go. Excited.  
  
  Q. Obviously with the stakes that are there, normally obviously you want to get back on the mound as fast as possible; is it even more you want to get back on mound, knowing the playoffs and everything, after your last start?  
 JAIME GARCIA: Yeah, obviously after you kind of -- you make a start where things don't go your way, you get a little anxious. But it's part of it. It's part of the game. You've got to have that feeling.   
 What you're saying, too, it's the playoffs, it's a little more exciting. But I'm just trying to take this as get ready as any other game and just basically work on what I need to work and go out there and do my thing, and then try not to put too much pressure on myself.   
 But yeah, I'm excited, but the good thing is that I'm prepared, I'm ready to go, and hopefully you know, things can go my way.   
  
  Q. We have beaten the home/road thing to death with you, but usually it's about why it's harder on the road. At home, do you feel like there's some benefit, whether it's a friendly park or extra confidence for you; do you feel like you get a boost from pitching here?  
 JAIME GARCIA: Well, yeah, obviously I like pitching here. But I don't really feel any different on the road. I just feel like a lot of this throughout the year, a lot of the times where I've pitched on the road, it's just one of those, you know, things didn't go your way, but I've had some good games on the road and then some not very good at home. So I can't really answer your question, because to me, it's all the same. Obviously I like pitching at home; you have the fans, you can sleep in your own bed.   
 But other than that, to me it's the same. I just try to see it as any other game and then prepare yourself for that specific game.   
  
  Q. Probably a step or two ahead than you would like to think, but after watching Carp in Game 5, and the celebration on the mound, and all of that kind of thing, do you think about tomorrow, that that could possibly be you sending your team to the World Series on the mound?  
 JAIME GARCIA: Well, now that you said it, I wasn't really thinking about it, but I guess it would be a really good feeling. But I'm not -- that's not what I'm focused on right now.   
 We still have got to win today. All I'm going to worry about is winning today for the team, and then if that seems to be the scenario tomorrow, that situation, that would be really cool. Yeah, something that you dream as a little kid to be in that position, but I'm not really thinking about that right now. All I worry about is today, and then tomorrow, just go out there and do my job and see what happens.   
  
  Q. Can you just share a little bit about what you do to try and slow the game down when you're actually out there and things are starting to maybe get a little crazy? Can you take us through how you try and work through those situations, please?   
 JAIME GARCIA: Just what I've been trying to do all year and learn, and trying to get better, you just take it one pitch at a time. No matter what happened the batter before, the inning before, you've just got to worry about the next pitch you're going to make. And if the game starts to get a little -- where a couple of guys get on, you get a couple runs in an inning, you've got to realize and step off, take your breather and think about, all you've got to worry about is the next pitch you're going to make. What's in the past is in the past, and that's the biggest thing.  
 But it all comes with experience. Once you go through struggles like that, the good guys -- I feel like the good pitchers are the ones that are able to, when you go out there and you don't feel very good and you still are able to get it done and worry about the next pitch.   
 But those are some things that I've been working and I'm going to keep working, and I'm not going to stop learning.   
  
  Q. How much do you think about your previous start before your next one? Do you reflect a lot about it or does it depend on how the outing went for you?   
 JAIME GARCIA: I don't really think a lot. I kind of -- if things go -- if I pitch good, I want to do better next time and if I didn't, I want to learn and take the good things out of the bad things, take the positive things and work on what I need to work on. The biggest thing is try not to get too anxious and just take it a day at a time, and then do your work and as long as you can look at yourself in the mirror and you worked as hard as you could between starts and you did everything that you had to do, that's all you can really basically do.   
 And you know, other than that, you can't really put too much pressure on your mind.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT