FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 28, 1995
Rachel McQuillan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Tough match.

RACHEL McQUILLAN: Um-hum.


Q.  In the third set, 4-All, you're serving 30-40, there seemed to be a no-call.

RACHEL McQUILLAN: Yes.


Q.  You answered right back with her first serve, but then again it seemed some of the steam was gone.

RACHEL McQUILLAN: Yes.  Well, you know, that the point in the match it was getting very close and very tight and I was trying to go for it at the beginning and I was missing so then I was trying to be more patient and wait for the right ball to be aggressive and at the end I was trying to be too patient rather than setting up big points to come in otherwise in the second set.  So, you know, it just starts getting frustrated with a few things and these courts are different than the first time I'm in the green clay for me and I haven't played on this stuff before so it's a whole new experience.  It was a tough match and I would have loved to have got through it, but it's the way it goes.


Q.  Speaking of that call, particularly in the third set, were the shadows a problem?

RACHEL McQUILLAN: Not for us, no, but I think they might have been for the linesmen.  It's very hard to see through a shadow and sun, I guess. I could understand her not being able to see it that well, and it's just one of those things that just happens.  And I felt after -- I didn't know where the mark was, I played the point anyway and it was my fault for losing it.  So if I was going to argue it I had to stop the point right there and then, but I played it on and I knew it was over, so that's that.  But it would have been nice to win that point because I would have had a chance to win that game.  Changed things around totally.


Q.  Did you pick up your game up in the second set or maybe did she fall off a little bit?

RACHEL McQUILLAN: Well, you know, I think I picked my game up and maybe she did fall off a little bit, but I thought I didn't really attack a lot more, I tried to force a play more and not be, like I said, too aggressive and make mistakes by doing it, just trying to set the points up and trying to look to come in, because when I play my best tennis is when I look to come in to the net. So I volleyed well and I just don't know how to get to the net on these courts because it's slower and I was getting a little bit impatient at times, and that's why she was making more and she was a little more patient than I was in getting the ball deeper and, you know, she was mixing things up pretty well because she's a top player.


Q.  How do you think you did adjust to the clay?

RACHEL McQUILLAN: It is different.  Like I've been playing a lot of hard court matches.  And coming from hard court to clay the balls bounce a lot higher and it's a little slower and, like I said, it's a lot tougher to come to the net on this stuff.  And, you know, they can pass a lot better and lob better and top  spin is really good on these courts.  But use more of my game and just sort of be a little bit more patient, like I said, and just sort of play my game around going to the net and just mixing things up which I did well. You know, it's my first time, like I said, on the green clay so I'm pretty happy with my results.  But I would have loved to have won today because it gives me another match to play.  But I'll just use this week practicing and playing some doubles with my partner Ginger Helgeson and just do well in Amelia Island next week.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT