THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 21, 1995
Rachel McQuillan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That is obviously the best you had all year; one of your
greatest wins of your career?

 RACHEL McQUILLAN:  Yeah, I think so.  I haven't played Lindsay
before, so I went there not knowing what to expect and, you know,
I just sort of got a bit of feedback from a lot of other players
and just generally wanted to start early against her and try and
break her rhythm.  I was pretty happy with today.

 Q.  Rachel, first Australian to go through to the quarterfinals
in the women section of this tournament. You must be delighted
with that?

 RACHEL McQUILLAN:  Really delighted because, you know, a lot
of pressure was off me.  I wasn't expected to win out there. Just
went out there and I really enjoyed it.  I enjoyed playing today.
 I thought after all the tennis, I thought I might be tired; actually,
I felt pretty good; really happy with it.

 Q.  What worked the best for you out there?

 RACHEL McQUILLAN:  I think -- well, I have been really working
on my serve in the last week.  I think my serve really helped
me today, especially against Lindsay because she returns very
well, and, you know, still a couple of times where I missed a
lot of first serves, but generally, I tried to mix my second serve
up which worked okay, but in the end, I was happy too with the
results.

 Q.  Did you have it in your mind that you wanted to keep her
moving in the match?

 RACHEL McQUILLAN:  Obviously, if you can hit it away from her,
it is good.  She puts so much pressure on you most of the time
you are on the defensive all the time.  It is so hard when you
are on the defensive; to try and make her move you feel like you
are rushing yourself.  The two main things I was trying to do
was to serve really well and try and get a point in the very first
shot and then to return really well.  And to hit it early right
down the center so she has to move out of the way a little bit
and just to chip and charge sometimes; just to mix things up a
lot against her, it worked pretty well.

 Q.  Next match is against, let us say, it is against Gaby
Sabatini; what are your thoughts?

 RACHEL McQUILLAN:  Well, I have really not given it much thought
at all.  I don't know what to expect.  I will just be -- after
this I will be sitting back and sort of looking at -- the match
is probably over now, but I have played her twice before and,
you know, she can play real well.  Obviously, she has had a lot
of easy wins last couple of rounds.  She must be playing okay.
 I will be looking to attack her serve. I think that is a little
bit of a weak point of her game; especially the second serve;
mix it up and enjoy like I have been today.

 Q.  It is a completely different game to Davenport who would
come in a lot more; Gaby is going to stay back almost all the
time?

 RACHEL McQUILLAN:  Yeah, well Gaby can come in.  She volleys
really well.  I am surprised she doesn't come in more like she
does, but I sort of haven't played her for like two years, so
I generally have a good feel of the game; never really played
much of the top players because I have haven't been in this far
of the draw to play them.  I am looking to sort of go out and
play my best tennis if I can do that; I got a good chance of winning,
I think.

 End of FastScripts..... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT