DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2005
Peter Baker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How were conditions out there?

PETER BAKER:   Yes, not too bad, bit windy but I actually don't mind playing in the wind around St Andrews, that is what it needs because as you know at the last couple of Opens here, the weather has been fantastic.
Q. And we thought the weather might be worse than this?

PETER BAKER:   Well yes, after the last couple of days, this feels like a mere breeze. This event, you just get on with it, the weather can be difficult, the course are difficult when it gets like that and you just make the best of it and get on with it. Difficult, but fun. All the links courses need wind and it spoils them when it is flat calm. I am fortunate too that I am playing with three good guys, Peter Senior, Steve Redgrave and David Walsh, they have been great and we had a lot of fun out there and I played nice which makes things even better. Steve Redgrave played well in parts, he hits a long ball at times as you can imagine and they both stuttered a bit at the end but at the end of the week, they might not be far away.
Q. How good is your score in the overall scheme of things?

PETER BAKER:   Well it is difficult to gauge, I have no real idea. I saw there wasn't many from St Andrews on the leaderboard but there is still three days to go and it is just a matter of trying to shoot as low as you can. I am very happy with my start, I played well. It still haunts me a little bit, The Open.  I finished off badly in the second round and missed the cut, but there you go.
Q. A nice change as well Peter because your form hasn't been too good of late?

PETER BAKER:   No it hasn't. It is funny, away from the Tour, I have played a few pro-ams and played quite well and I haven't just managed to get it onto the Tour which has been frustrating. This year, position-wise I have done as badly as I have ever done but I feel I have been playing not too badly. It is strange, but you have to put the scores up, it is as simple as that.
Q. What is your situation at present?

PETER BAKER:   Well I have to win a lot of money in the next few weeks. I am 169 on the Order of Merit and I will have to go to Tour School if I don't do it. I will go back. I went last year and it didn't go well for me at all there but I think it is difficult for the guys who lose their cards and have played badly, to go back there. Hopefully if I have to go back, I'll be better prepared. But a big week this week and that will negate all that. I'm going to have a go. I have nothing to lose and try and take some of the form from home onto this big stage.
Q. Are you getting swept up in Ryder Cup fever yourself now the points have started?

PETER BAKER:   Yes I am. Myself, Ian and Des were at a big dinner in Dublin on Tuesday night to celebrate a year to go to the Ryder Cup and that went very well.  We are all very excited about it and you can feel the excitement building being there. It all went very well and now of course with the players getting points, from a team point of view it has been a great start for us with Garcia doing well and Casey doing well and McGinley doing well, it is a great start for the team and I am sure along the way that others will begin to start picking up points. It was a great occasion in Ireland, there was an excitement there with all the sponsors being there. I know everyone is looking forward to it already and it is going to be a wonderful event.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT