VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2002
Peter Baker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SCOTT CROCKETT:  Well done, 68.  I suppose if somebody had given you that before you went out, with the conditions, you would have taken it?
PETER BAKER: Definitely, yeah.  
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Pleased with that.
PETER BAKER: Delighted with that, yeah.  
SCOTT CROCKETT:  You played very well.  Your eagle,  nice way to finish as well.
PETER BAKER: Yes.  Good eagle at 12, hit a 3-iron to about six feet.  That was a great shot.  And then 17 actually pulled me drive, came off the fence on the left, so that was a massive break there, made a good chipping putt for birdie. 
Then 18, just missed the bunker on the left, hit 3-wood 25 yards short of the green, chipped it too strong, really, about 15 feet past, left myself in the worst position really.  Just tried to roll it down, make sure didn't 3-putt.  It was outside quick, putted it.  It fell in, big bounce.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Feel the same as you felt at the Belfry?
PETER BAKER: Yeah, I have played steadily.  I have played steady for three days, so I am delighted.  Never done any good round at Wentworth 'til last year where I had a good last round, so pleasantly surprised. 

Q.   Learning as you keep playing?
PETER BAKER: I think you do.  You tend to see the Match Play guys generally do well.  Obviously not so good this week, maybe, but those guys who tend to play it quite a lot, shoot a lot of birdies in the Match Play, tend to do very well around here.  Other than that, I think it takes a while to learn how to play.  And I don't know   -- I don't know if we ever learn to play.  But this week has been all right.  (Laughs).

Q.   Was the ball heading out-of-bounds at 17?
PETER BAKER: Right on the edge, yeah.  Sort of bounced and clipped  the fence and come direct -- ricochetted down the fairway, middle of the fairway. 
I am very happy. 

Q.   You have had horrendous times here?
PETER BAKER: Yeah, I have done everything here.  I have been something like 6-, 7-under after 12 in two consecutive rounds, missed the cut, that's hard to do.  What else?  I have done that one there.  I have played a terrible round here really from year after year after year.  It's probably second behind Switzerland, which I don't go anymore to Switzerland.  Never made the cut in Switzerland. When I did make the cut, shortened it to 15 guys, so I had to go home. Then one year in Switzerland I was playing a pro-am, took my wife with me, playing the last hole there, I am about 10-under playing the last, which is the 9th, the long par 5 top of the backswing squashed a bee under my arm and my chin, stung me under the chin, hit it under the tree, took 8.  Had to go home then from the bee sting.  It is second to Switzerland, really.  After that, maybe changed a bit. 

Q.   You may come back next year then?
PETER BAKER: Yeah, I will always come back here.  Actually I  think it is a very good course. I don't know, it just sort of baffles me why I could never do a good round here.

Q.   Have you put your finger on why you haven't played well here?
PETER BAKER:  NO, not really.  No, no idea.  I like the course actually.  I do like the course.  I don't like Switzerland particularly, but I like Wentworth.  It's a good course I've always enjoyed playing.  I could never understand why I couldn't play it really.  So I had no idea, I don't know why it's changed or why it was like that beforehand. 

Q.   You know Anders Hansen?
PETER BAKER: Yeah, I know of him.  Yeah, he's the one at 16 under.  (Laughs).  I don't know him very well.

Q.   How do you approach trying to catch him?
PETER BAKER: I don't really.  Just forget all about him if he's 6 ahead.  I won't worry about him. I will let him do all the worrying, just go out and try and do something like I did today.  Try and do what I did the last two days, hit fairways and greens.  If I do that I am going to shoot a decent score. 

Q.   Best you felt about your game for how long?
PETER BAKER: Since about ten days ago at the Belfry.

Q.   Before this stretch?
PETER BAKER:  It's funny, I think confidence-wise, it's not been -- I lost a lot of confidence.  I think it's probably I got to go through all of this and try and gain some confidence from it, like at Belfry last week.  I didn't play very well in Germany, which was quite surprising really because I played nicely at the Belfry.  So I think it's just  building the confidence up and get myself in these situations and learning to deal with it again.  I think it has been a long time and it's just nice to be able to have a go at the weekend on a Sunday.  Whatever happens, I am going to learn from it again; hopefully you know, get more comfortable with it as time goes on.  Because it has been like a bit like starting again. 

Q.   What is your goal for this year?  Set any goals?
PETER BAKER: I have no goals at all, no.  Don't like goals.  Because it's just disappointing really.  So I don't set any goals. 
SCOTT CROCKETT: Birdied the first.
PETER BAKER: Yeah, a iron to four feet. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  4th. 
PETER BAKER:  Chipped it up 3-iron just out of the back, chipped it dead. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  9.
PETER BAKER: Left hand rough, left-hand bunker,  knocked it to five feet, missed it. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Dropped a shot, 14.
PETER BAKER: Yeah, 7-iron flew the hole,  over the green, hit a great chip to four feet, missed it.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  What happened actually after 17 after you hit the fence?
PETER BAKER: 4-wood just through the green, chipped up to ten feet, holed it. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Excellent.  Thanks very much. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT