WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 17, 2010
Tim Finchem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What's your reaction?
 TIM FINCHEM: Reaction? I don't really have a reaction. I'm pleased that he's going to make some comments and do what the statement says he's going to do, so that's good news.

 Q. Why are you letting him use Sawgrass?
 TIM FINCHEM: They asked to use Sawgrass.

 Q. Any feeling it's undermining this tournament?
 TIM FINCHEM: I don't think so. I think that. You know, we have tournaments every week. But I don't think so. I think it's going to be a story in and of itself. 
 And a lot of people are going to be watching golf this week so see what the world of golf says about it, my guess is, so that will be a good thing.

 Q. How much contact have you had with him?
 TIM FINCHEM: None.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TIM FINCHEM: I'm not going to assume anything. I'll wait and see what he says tomorrow, like everybody else and we'll learn what he has to say. If I -- there's nothing to assume or not assume.

 Q. Is it worth trying to discuss at all with Mark or the group to have it on a Monday when there's no golf being played?
 TIM FINCHEM: You'd have to ask the Woods camp about the schedule. You know, we were asked to make the facility available and to help with the logistics. That's what we're doing. And my sense is that this is part of his schedule and what he's dealing with and going through, but I don't know that. You should ask Mark.

 Q. What about format, did you have any involvement in the format?
 TIM FINCHEM: No, the format was not part of our -- no, the answer is no.

 Q. -- when he makes his first public appearance but doesn't allow for any questions?
 TIM FINCHEM: I don't know. I don't know what his plans are in terms of what he's going to say. I don't know what he's going to do after he finishes his rehab, you know, I think all of that is TBD. You all will make up your own minds about that and write about it and so will fans and people that have been impacted by it.

 Q. A couple of players have already said they feel this is just a slap at Accenture?
 TIM FINCHEM: I don't look at it that way.

 Q. Why?
 TIM FINCHEM: I just don't. Like I say, they have their own reasons for their schedule. My sense is it had nothing to do with who happens to be playing this week.

 Q. Did you talk to Accenture about this?
 TIM FINCHEM: I have not talked to Accenture about this, no.

 Q. Will you be at the press conference or whatever you're going to call it?
 TIM FINCHEM: I will be in attendance, yes.

 Q. You presume he will talk about it as soon as possible?
 TIM FINCHEM: As soon as possible, possible meaning when he has dealt with what he left the game to deal with. And I don't know what decisions he has to make. So in a vacuum we'd like him back as soon as possible, but we want him back importantly when he's dealt with the issues he felt like he had to deal with to come back.

 Q. Will the media be in the same room, Tim?
 TIM FINCHEM: The statement indicates that there will be a handful of media invited to be in the room, yes.

 Q. Were you planning to be here the whole week?
 TIM FINCHEM: No, I was never planning to be here the whole week. It's my usual schedule of coming in early in the week for two or three days, leaving for two or three days, coming back on the weekend, that's typically the way I've dealt with it.

 Q. You will be in the press conference?
 TIM FINCHEM: I will be in the room, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT