WORLD GOLF HALL OF FAME INDUCTION
November 14, 2005
Carolyn Bivens
Bob Charles
Ben Crenshaw
Beth Daniel
Tim Finchem
Tony Jacklin
Ty Votaw
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COMMISSIONER TIMOTHY W. FINCHEM:  On behalf of the board of the World Golf Foundation, let me welcome the members of the Hall of Fame, our special guests and golf fans watching from around the country and the world tonight to the 2005 induction ceremony here at the World Golf Hall of Fame.  The purpose of the World Golf Foundation is to oversee the activities of the Hall of Fame and also to contribute to the growth of the game of golf through The First Tee initiative and the 20/20 Program.  This week approximately 220 leaders from the golf industry around the country and some from around the world are here to talk about the issues facing the game of golf as we look to the future.  Each year there are some common themes to this conference; the role of the positive image that golf enjoys, the importance of diversity to the future of the game and the current globalization we're seeing and the international growth of the game around the world. The inductees tonight remind us of these concepts.  Karrie Webb represents the focus and enthusiasm of an entire country that shares her passion for the game in Australia.  Ayako Okamoto like fellow inductees before her like Isao Aoki and Hisako Higuchi is widely recognized as having a profound impact on the game in her native Japan. As inductees we are recognizing posthumously from the United Kingdom the great player Willie Park, Sr., the fine writer Bernard Darwin, and the exquisite architect Alister McKenzie, who represent the history and the heritage of the sport and the game.  This is truly a global game, and tonight's class of inductees further underscores just how far we have come as a sport and as a Hall of Fame in terms of our global awareness.  Since we opened this magnificent facility in 1998, some 26 new members have taken their place in the Hall of Fame, and with each new class comes a different perspective and a unique personality.  Tonight's class is no exception.  Representing the very essence of the sport, diversity, globalization, determination, skill, and the two traits that are the marks of all great champions, grace and inspiration.  As we congratulate our inductees tonight, we also want to thank Hall of Fame members for returning here not only to make this a special night for the inductees but also for their continued commitment to the promotion and support of the Hall of Fame.  On behalf of the board of directors, I want to thank Jack Peter and his staff and their team as they've come together to move the Hall of Fame forward in recent years.  To those of you here tonight who have not seen the Hall of Fame exhibits, we invite you to do so after tonight's ceremony.  To our television audience, we say to you that if you love golf, you must come down and see this wonderful facility.  To everyone, have a wonderful evening.  Thank you.  (Applause) 
 
FRAN CHARLES:  Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.  Thank you, Hall of Famers.  Just over 100 players and contributors to the game have earned that honor, and we are thrilled to have a number of our members here this evening.  It's time for our traditional roll call.  As an amateur, she earned the nickname by winning five U.S. Amateur titles, she was "Big Mama" en route to an LPGA career highlighted by 42 victories, JoAnne Carner (applause). Ben Crenshaw, a two-time Masters champion 11 years apart, we all remember his fiery inspiration as a Ryder Cup captain.  He now serves as one of the Hall's ambassadors, Ben Crenshaw (applause).  The pride of Charleston, South Carolina, Beth Daniel, won 33 times on the LPGA Tour and was named Player of the Year three times.  She's played on five victorious Solheim Cup teams, Beth Daniel (applause).  Juli Inkster has captured seven major professional champions and three consecutive U.S. Amateur titles over her illustrious career.  This year she played on her sixth Solheim Cup team (applause).  Tony Jacklin, a winner of two major championships, he played on seven Ryder Cup teams, and as a four-time captain, he sparked Europe's resurgence in the biennial matches, Tony Jacklin (applause). Carol Mann won 38 career titles and went on to become president of the LPGA Tour.  She's currently a special ambassador to the Hall of Fame, assisting in member relations and exhibit development, Carol Mann (applause).  Kathy Whitworth's first victory came in the Kelly Girl Open in 1962.  23 years and 87 wins later, she made history.  No man or woman has won more professional events (applause).  And in the audience, three women whose enduring legends form an inspiration to all, an icon among amateurs, Judy Bell played on two victorious Curtis Cup teams, served as captain and then went on to make history as the first female president of the USGA, Judy Bell (applause).  A former marine lieutenant, Patty Berg, played the game with military recision.  She won 57 titles, including the first ever Women's Open in 1946, Patty Berg (applause).  A two-time U.S. women's Open Champion, Louise Suggs is one of a handful of Hall of Fame members to have completed the career Grand Slam.  She served as the LPGA's second president and currently resides here at the World Golf Village, Louise Suggs (applause).  Can you believe it's been a year already since we last met here?  Well, after their first full year as Hall of Famers, we're pleased to welcome back these two legends from the class of 2004, Marlene Stuart Streit.  The first member from Canada, she's the only player to win national amateur championships in Australia, the U.S., Britain and Canada.  All told, she claimed 30 national or international championships on three different continents, Marlene Stewart Streit (applause).  And Charles Sifford.  As a 41-year-old rookie, he became the first African-American to play on the PGA TOUR.  In addition, the 1975 PGA Seniors Champion was an original member of the Champions Tour, Charles Sifford (applause).  Ladies and gentlemen, what an extraordinary group of individuals.  Their contributions to their sport and to their countries have earned them their rightful place here.  They are all truly international heroes.  Good evening again, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to St. Augustine, Florida, home of the World Golf Hall of Fame.  It's a wonderful honor for me to join you tonight at this most special annual gathering, and this is a night for our sport to both acknowledge the accomplishments of our past inductees and to celebrate the achievements of those who are about to be recognized with golf's highest honor.  And this year, we have a unique class, a writer, an architect, and a competitor, who made their indelible marks during eras gone by and two women who grew up in two distinctly different cultures on the opposite sides of the globe.  If ever there was an testament to the depth, breadth and international appeal of this game, certainly this is it. As of tonight, 109 people will have earned the privilege of becoming a part of the World Golf Hall of Fame.  They come from six different continents and have been part of a history of a sport that has spanned over 800 years.  Our first inductee hails from the British Isles and was selected from the lifetime achievement category.  Let's take a look at the life of this extraordinary pioneer whose legacy is enjoyed by so many around the world.  (Alister McKenzie video shown.)  At this time I'd like to call upon one of the Hall of Fame's ambassadors to tell us more about this remarkable forefather.  A lifelong student of the game and an architect in his own right and a member of the World Golf Hall of Game and an ambassador of the game, from the great nation of Texas, Mr. Ben Crenshaw (applause).  
 
BEN CRENSHAW:  Thank you, everyone.  Ladies and gentlemen, when you're confronted with a subject that you love so much, and this gentleman means so much to so many people around the world, it's very difficult to put into words in such a concise way of what he had achieved in his life.  As we all play golf, we all play golf all over the world.  It's a global game now.  But we all know what a golf course means to the game.  Ever since the game was invented, the course itself is such an integral part of why we recreate and why we come and be with our friends and enjoy.  Well, this gentleman happened to enjoy such beautiful surroundings, and he was so good at it, it's a very nice thing for me to say as a practicing builder of golf courses that this gentleman was in the top rung.  Has always been that way.  He has been one to study.  I've been lucky enough to study golf and history since I was a teenager, but at the name of Dr. McKenzie, you conjure up these I'd say scenes of an artist, and an artist he was.  How many great golf courses he's left us throughout the world.  He had so many different facets of his life; he was born in England but he had Scottish parents and he loved being a Scot.  You can see those pictures with his kilt.  He was very synonymous with the game's traditions.  He early on became enamored with St. Andrews and it stayed with him through the rest of his life.  Dr. McKenzie felt it was the duty of the architect to exploit all natural features of a given property.  Absolutely no land form escaped his attention, and he felt it was a duty to learn a piece of property so well that any little mound, little hillock, body of water, whatever was going to be in the scheme of preceding nature.  He wanted every golf course that he built to not have the hand of man in it.  That's how much he exalted nature. Obviously when he became interested in camouflage in the Boor War, he saw this readily when he saw the enemy that concealed themselves in trenches and he was fascinated by it.  So when he came back to Leeds, he was already a member of Alwoodley.  Alwoodley is where he practiced some of his first designs along with Headingly, very close to Leeds.  But what he wanted to do was something different; he was part of a band of architects that brought the game inland.  All the courses then and all of the observations were done because all the great links courses were on the coast.  Well, there were a band of people that wanted to bring the game inland, and he was one of the first people to start the design inland features.  So he thought, well, -- as a matter of fact, he went to Cambridge and he got three degrees.  He got degrees in medicine, in botany, and also in doctoring.  But he was immersed with camouflage.  So when he saw the Boors during the Boor War, he came back to Leeds, and he came to be enamored, and he said, look, this is starting to be something that I can sink my teeth in, I can go out on a piece of property and I can look at these features and I can start going towards my will. So at Alwoodley, where I've played, it's a gorgeous golf course, I made the pilgrimage a few years ago, he met Harry Colt.  Harry Colt was a wonderful architect.  They built that golf course and they did a marvelous job.  He started his lifelong work.  In 1914 he entered a prize competition that Country Life, a great publication in Britain, he won first prize, and at that time Horse Hitchinson, who was a great amateur player there, Bernard Darwin, were judges.  He won first prize, and it was that hole that was transported into Long Island and was built actually at a course called Lido, which is no longer in existence by Charlie McDonald. That was where the public really started to get his name.  But then after the First World War, he came back again, and he once again was employed by the British Army as a camouflage expert.  So he started his life's work, and I would think that some of the first golf courses he became interested in, and he made a map at St. Andrews in 1924, I think almost everybody in the country has got a map of St. Andrews that he depicted in 1924.  He built courses before that, not the least of which was Lahinch. He started to gain this name.  But the thing that set him apart was utilization of natural features.  He believed in St. Andrews because of so many principles.  One can still play St. Andrews, and with any ability, you are not dictated as to how to play at St. Andrews.  You are free to roam.  In other words, you are not dictated as to how to play it.  This fascinated him.  It was one of the principles later on that he thought was part of the aspects of a great golf course in that the more that you play it, you more you learn it and the more that you try to strive for better figures, and you also learn things about it as you go on.  Now, some of the golf courses that come to mind are the very best in the world that Dr. McKenzie did, Cypress Point, Augusta National and Royal Melbourne.  It happened over really in the 1920s culminating with Augusta National, which he incidentally did not see before he died, before he passed away.  I think it's very interesting when you study Dr. McKenzie that wherever he traveled, he became involved with someone who was very skilled at that site.  For instance, he only spent two months in Australia, and his imprint is so indelible there that it gave Royal Melbourne, which is still one of the great courses in the world, so many courses down there, Kingston Heath, Royal Adelaide, Victoria, Metropolitan, Yara Yara and New South Wales, but he did have some help.  The thing is that the Forkum family, who were greenskeepers, Dr. McKenzie thought he was the best greenskeeper in the world, but he actually provided impetus to actually build the holes, and somehow he grasped his principles.  The principles I'll get to in a minute.  In this country, he actually did the three courses which get so much attention, and rightly so, Cypress Point, Crystal Downs and Augusta.  Crystal Downs was sandwiched in between Augusta and Cypress Point, and then Pasa Tiempo came at the end.  I think that some of the elements that Dr. McKenzie thought of and he was very passionate about bringing the game to the masses.  The courses should not be designed just for the expert himself; the lesser players should have an alternate route around them.  And also a couple of quotes I think of note are "narrow fairways bordered by long grass make for bad golfers.  It's a common error to cut rough in straight lines.  It should be cut in irregular, natural-looking curves.  He should be able to put himself in the position of the best player in the world that ever lived, and at the same time be extremely sympathetic towards the beginner or long handicap player."  Those are still elements of St. Andrews.  "He should above all have a sense of proportion and be able to come to a prompt decision as to what the greatest good for the greatest number.  It may appear unreasonable that the question of esthetics should enter into golf course design.  However, on further analysis, it's clear that the great courses and in detail all the famous holes and greens are fascinating to the golfer by reason of their shape and their modeling.  When these elements are in the fundamental balance and harmony, the fine proportion they give rise to is what we call beauty."  Now, I don't think there's any person who has been lucky enough to be at Cypress Point who knows how gorgeous the golf course is.  It's probably the prettiest golf course in the world.  But in it, it's a great test of skill.  It doesn't beat you over the head with so many insurmountable obstacles, and it's thrilling to play.  It's enjoyable.  This was the hallmark of what he believed.  I think that in any study of all of his golf courses, he believed that golf should be played by everyone.  As a matter of fact, he went so far as to say that some of the best holes should be played with a putter.  The 11th hole at St. Andrews was one of his favorite holes.  He thought it was an ideal hole where the locals would play with a putter and could get a 4 pretty easily.  It's a par 3.  And for a very, very fine player, it was very difficult to play in par figures, as well.  So it's all about -- it's about placement of hazards.  He also believed that there's no such thing as an unfair bunker wherever it's placed.  He said it's always -- you enter it at your own peril.  In other words, you play around it, you play over it, you play past it.  It was the duty of a golfer to figure that out.  But you had to have a way around.  That's why his courses were so important.  I think I'd like to say, too, that Sandy Tatum had a great quote.  Certainly he came up with the idea that Cypress Point was the Sistine Chapel of golf, and rightly so, but he also said something very interesting about architecture.  He said that when you build a golf, it reveals your soul.  It reveals something about your character.  Well, if that's so, Dr. McKenzie was so equitable to the world's golfers, and he did believe that it should not be -- as a matter of fact, he had a lot of criticism in the way that he had some of the most fierce greens that you ever saw, undulations he thought were a great part of the game.  They didn't escape criticism, and he believed in that, and because he believed that, once again, St. Andrews was the model.  I know we have so many people here tonight who came on Dr. McKenzie's benefit.  We have people from around the world from this Society, and I think that I'd like to pay particular attention to Ray Haddock and his wife.  Ray Haddock is Dr. McKenzie's grandson.  He happened to be the man who found the manuscript that became The Spirit of St. Andrews.  If anybody has ever read The Spirit of St. Andrews, it says a lot about Dr. McKenzie, about why we play and about how golf should be presented.  I'd certainly like to make a special hello to him tonight.  This subject obviously is pay too deep to cover in a short period of time, but it's why we build courses, with the love of the land.  And no one can do it any better than him.  Augusta is obviously on so many people's minds with respect to conditioning and the way tournaments are held; it's got such high marks in everything.  It is a remarkable place, but it's due to Bobby Jones' and Dr. McKenzie's eye that they wanted to exploit all those natural features.  I think that it's very interesting that with all of the familiarity that we see at Augusta every year, still the hole that stirs up people, and it's the meanest little hole that ever was, is No. 12.  It's 155 yards of terror, and it shows you that a golf course does not have to be 8,000 yards to be an absolute brute.  It's the hardest hole I have ever played, and somehow I got through it many times.  I'll build golf courses the rest of my life, but I hope if I had any way of knowing at the end of my career if I built one hole that even came close to what Dr. McKenzie built, I would have been a happy man.  I won't belabor it anymore, but it's a great honor for me to speak on his behalf because we follow his lead in so many respects.  I still think they're timeless.  I think they're timeless today.  If any course worth their salt is a natural one and possesses great beauty, that's what we try to achieve.  I want to thank Ray Haddock, again, for being here, and all the representatives from around the world who made the special trip here on behalf of him.  May his name always live. Thank you (applause).  
 
FRAN CHARLES:  Our next presenter distinguished herself on the world stage throughout her Hall of Fame career.  She blended competitive toughness with personal warmth, and fittingly her name is alongside those greats who are in the Hall.  Please welcome Ms. Beth Daniel (applause).  
 
BETH DANIEL:  Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.  I'm so honored to be here with you to help celebrate the careers of tonight's World Golf Hall of Fame inductees.  The game of golf has long been a part of my life, and it has brought me more joy and rewards than I could have ever dreamed of.  But some of the greatest treasures of my golf career haven't been the trophies or the paychecks but instead the friendships I have built throughout the years.  Through golf, I have truly been blessed with the opportunity to meet so many wonderful people I probably wouldn't have crossed paths with in any other circumstance.  It's amazing to think that this game can have such a powerful impact on a person's life by building friendships across the globe.  The next inductee, Ayako Okamoto is a perfect example.  As a rookie on the LPGA Tour I was invited to play in an event in Japan.  In the first round I was paired with a fairly new player from the JLPGA Tour, a player that many expected to become Japan's next golf superstar.  I didn't care too much about the hype at that time.  I was 22 years old, I was ready to make my own mark on the world of golf, so Ayako Okamoto and I spent the day trying to out-drive and out-play each other.  I can honestly say that even then I knew I was playing with someone special.  Ayako's swing was so effortless and very powerful, made even more amazing by the fact that she had only taken up the game of golf at the age of 21.  But what stood out for me was her skill and imagination around the greens.  She played with such feel in an era when most players paid more attention to numbers and power.  While I didn't know at the time that we would become friends for a lifetime, I instinctively knew that I could learn a lot from Ayako's incredible short game and finesse.  Ayako joined the LPGA Tour a few years later and soon fulfilled the promise and hype that followed her from Japan to the United States.  I could bore you with Ayako's statistics like 62 total wins, 44 on the JLPGA Tour, 17 on the LPGA Tour, two in Europe, but what is more impressive is the fact that she accomplished all of that with the weight of a nation on her shoulders.  The people of Japan absolutely adore Ayako.  She was and is a symbol of pride and excellence to the entire country as one of the first successful golfers in the nation's history.  Every week, Ayako wasn't placing a tee in the ground or making a birdie for herself but for Japan.  I can only imagine the pressure these expectations placed on Ayako throughout the years with photographers and media representatives from Japan documenting her every move.  But she handled herself with incredible grace and class and continued to perform at the highest level.  On top of all that, Ayako adjusted to life on the LPGA Tour, thousands of miles away from home, flawlessly.  It's hard to imagine living and working in a different country with no knowledge of the customs or language, eating strange foods and traveling to places you've never heard of in your life.  It's enough to send anyone running for the comfort and safety of home, but not Ayako.  She learned to speak English, she embraced the opportunity to try new things and meet new people, and she reached out and made friends easily.  Ayako was well-liked and respected by all of the LPGA as much for her personality and openness and for her incredible achievements on the golf course.  It's for those reasons that Ayako remains as one of the game's greatest ambassadors, a role model for all of the international players who dominate the sport today.  (Ayako Okamoto video played.)   I am so proud to have played beside Ayako, competed against her and come to know her as a true friend.  Ayako, you are so deserving of this honor, and it is my privilege to see you take your rightful place among The Legends of golf.  Welcome to the family, welcome to the World Golf Hall of Fame, omedetogozaimasu, Ayako-san.  Ladies and gentlemen, Ayako Okamoto (applause).  
 
AYAKO OKAMOTO:  Thank you, Beth, so much.  I have known Beth since I first came to America in 1979, and she was my very important teacher from the beginning.  She taught me many words and things in English which cannot be found in language books (laughter).  I would be in big trouble if I tell you the things she taught me (laughter). Beth, my sensei, thank you so much for your support and friendship.  First of all, I want to congratulate the inductees and their families here tonight.  It is a great honor to be inducted with all of you, especially with Karrie, who I have known since she was 20 years old.  Karrie, I knew you would be a great player, but I never thought you would prove it to the world in such a short time.  Congratulations, Karrie (applause).  Please let me go on in Japanese from here because I want to give my translator Elaine something to do (laughter).  Being inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame is the highest honor bestowed on me, and I wish to thank the international ballot members for their decision which changed my life and also to the hard-working staff of the World Golf Hall of Fame for making these few days a memorable experience.  I am grateful to my sponsors, Mizuno and the SRI Group, who have supported me from my first year as a professional, and especially to Diwabo, who has been with me for 36 years.  And of course, I must thank my parents for bringing me into this world and allowing me to grow up freely to see the world.  I would not be here today without the support of fellow players.  Many of them here this evening, caddies, LPGA staff, and tournament sponsors.  But I would especially like to thank my good friend Patti Rizzo.  My first victory on the LPGA Tour was the Arizona Copper Classic in 1982, and that is when I first met Patti.  I played with her in the final group on the final day.  We became close friends, and her family took me in like their daughter.  When I suffered from a herniated disk in 1985, they cared for me until I recovered.  I am truly grateful for their love and support.  Patti and her children are here tonight, Miso-san, domo arigato, I can't thank you enough.  Another person I'd like to thank is former director of tournament operations, Suzanne Jackson.  She was a good friend and was very patient in teaching me rules and regulations along with many other things.  Unfortunately, she passed away seven years ago on November 11th with breast cancer.  What has touched me deeply is that each time such a tragedy happens, the LPGA players, sponsors and friends immediately work together to set up continuous projects and foundations to support families and others suffering from the same illness.  I must say, the most important thing I have learned from my years on the LPGA Tour is the spirit of giving, acceptance and understanding are given to those who feel lost.  Material and moral support are given to those in need.  The induction into the World Golf Hall of Fame has inspired me to become an ambassador of this great game.  I have treasured the spirit of giving, and through golf I hope to give back to those who are in need.  I thank you all for taking your time to share this special moment with me.  Tonight I must ask you to be in the spirit of giving, too.  I ask for your forgiveness in not being able to talk to you in English (laughter), and I thank you dearly for your patience (applause).  
 
FRAN CHARLES:  Our next inductee tonight was a venerable forefather of the game, rising from humble beginnings outside Muscleborough, Scotland.  He enters the Hall of Fame through the veterans' category.  Let's take a look at the life and times of the first man ever to win the Open Championship.  Tonight we have with us a member of the Hall who followed in Willie Parks' footsteps with his own Open triumph in 1969.  He's the consummate champion and gentleman.  Please welcome Hall of Fame member, Mr. Tony Jacklin (applause).  
 
TONY JACKLIN:  Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.  First of all, I'd like to say what a privilege and pleasure it is for me to be back in this wonderful place, and to say that Willie Parks, Sr., was a pioneer is almost an understatement.  There was very little that happened before him.  So I'm sure you'll forgive me if my remarks are not overly long.  The thing that strikes me about him, as a 21-year-old in 1854, he started challenging old Tom Morris to matches around St. Andrews and Muscleborough for 100-pound challenge matches, and these matches prior to the Open Championship were followed by crowds of 5,000 and 6,000 people.  I mean, it's incredible to think about that today.  The thing that strikes me about him, he was very sure of himself, as a lot of us were when we were 21 (laughter).  Memories.  "The first," as Peter Thomson said, "is always going to be the first," and as long as this game is played, he will always be that.  He had a big family with nine children.  The eldest son won the Open twice.  He, of course, won it three more times.  He prevented old Tom Morris from winning the belt outright.  Old Tom won the second and third championships, and then Willie stepped in with the fourth, preventing Tom winning the belt outright. He was a real player, he was a gambler.  He made his money gambling as a professional.  There was a reference to his club not as well tooled as some of the professionals.  It was a stick with a crooked neck and he became very clever at manipulating the golf ball with that.  He was a long driver and he was a fantastic putter.  I think it was his son Junior who quoted the words "a good putter is a match for anybody."  So this was a well-rounded man.  He didn't enjoy great health.  He died at 70.  There were pictures, and I've compared him.  He looked older than old Tom Morris, who was older than himself in his latter years, but he was a real pioneer of the game.  He did some golf course design with his son.  His son, of course, became a prolific designer, designed 120 or more courses, and they collaborated on a number of those.  Olympia Fields over here was one of their collaborations; one of my favorites in the UK, Sunningdale was another great golf course, Formby, and Lancashire was another one they collaborated on.  He's a real pioneer, as I've said.  He's left an indelible mark on this game, and it's a privilege for me to be here to introduce him tonight.  Thank you very much for your attention (applause).  
 
FRAN CHARLES:  Thank you very much, Tony.  2005 has been another great year for the Hall of Fame.  The museum has opened several new exhibits, a Black History Month display honoring Charlie Sifford, an amazing exhibit commemorating Bobby Jones and the 75th anniversary of the Grand Slam, and a special salute to the Walt Disney film The Greatest Game Ever Played celebrating Francis Ouimet's 1913 U.S. Open win.  2004 was quite a year for several of our members, several of whom are still on Tour.  Let's take a look.  (Video played.)  That's quite an impressive list of accomplishments for one year, and you can only wonder what they may achieve by the time we meet again here next year.  Right now we'd like to thank our partners who make this induction ceremony possible.  The Hall of Fame would like to acknowledge IBM, our worldwide technology partner, and Wachovia, our financial services provider.  In addition, we'd like to extend our thanks to three companies that make important contributions to the Hall, Cleveland Golf Equipment, Wilson Staff, and Imperial Headwear.  Thank you for your support (applause).  The World Golf Hall of Fame is a global institution, and as such, receives support from the global golf community.  The Hall would like to recognize the many major golf organizations of the world, including the PGA TOUR, the R & A, the USGA, the LPGA Tour, the PGA of America, and The International Golf Tours for their continuing contributions to the furthering of the message and mission of the Hall of Fame.  Thank you (applause).  When you look around and see how the World Golf Hall of Fame has evolved, it's pretty spectacular.  From the beginning one company shared the Hall's vision and it became our founding partner.  I'm speaking, of course, about the Shell Oil Company.  Shell's unparalleled commitment to the game was extended to The First Tee program, which has made a positive impact on the lives of hundreds of thousands of children, and who knows, maybe somewhere out there there's a child picking up a club at The First Tee chapter who will someday become a member of the Hall of Fame.  Tonight we have inducted two forefathers of the game.  Now we come to a legend of the fourth estate, a man who brought golf to the masses on a regular basis.  He enters the Hall of Fame through the lifetime achievement category.  Let's take a moment to learn more about this man who brought many of golf's most dramatic moments to life through the written word.  (Bernard Darwin video played.)  To wax poetic about this distinguished journalist, please welcome the golf correspondent from the British newspaper The Times, and the chairman of the Association of Golf Writers, Mr. John Hopkins (applause).  
 
JOHN HOPKINS:  Ladies and gentlemen, I'm proud and honored to introduce you to Bernard Darwin, who for most of the first half of the past century was golf's foremost writer.  To many of you, the name Darwin means Charles, the naturalist, the man who wrote The Origin of the Species.  Charles Darwin was Bernard's grandfather.  Bernard Darwin was born in 1876 in Down in Kent near London and died in 1961.  In the matter of golf writing, we should all pay attention to what Herbert Warren Wind wrote and said.  Herb went to Yale and from there to Cambridge University, and it was while he was in England that he met Darwin and read his golf reports in the times and elsewhere.  I do not think it is too strong to say that Herb was besotted with Darwin.  "There is little disagreement that the best golf writer of all time was an Englishman, Bernard Darwin," Herb said later.  Darwin, Herb said, was the finest talent ever to write about sport.  If Darwin himself had heard such an encomium, he would have blushed, and the mustache that at times looked as though it was struggling to survive on the gaunt slope of his upper lip might have quivered (laughter).  He would have thought that such a description was over-egging the cake.  Modesty could have been one of Darwin's forenames.  He never inserted himself unnecessarily into his copy.  He rarely used superlatives, and in complete contrast to today's practice, he never interviewed players.  Darwin was so modest, in fact, that when he and Joyce Wethered won the mixed foursomes in 1933, he referred to himself in The Times as "the elderly gentleman whose name for the most escapes me" (laughter).  Yet has there been a writer since whose prose compared with the seamless tapestries that Darwin wove in the times from 1907 to 1953 and in Countries Life from 1907 until 1961?  He wrote an introduction to the Oxford Book of Quotations.  He was an expert on Charles Dickens, and could and often would recite chunks from Dickens' novels.  He wrote four volumes of autobiography, as well as slim volumes about British clubs, mens' clubs, that is, and the British public schools, which, being private, are, in fact, anything but public.  Most of all, he wrote about golf, and if you have a golf library and you do not have any volumes of Darwin on your shelves, then let me tell you this:  You do not have a library (laughter).  There is a saying in Britain that "those who can, do, and those who can't, teach."  You might add that those who can't teach, write (laughter).  Far from being unable to do any of these three, Darwin could have done them all with graceful ease.  I have often thought that in his wide-ranging talents, he was like Bobby Jones, and how sad and ironic it was that these two gifted men should end their lives crippled in such ways that the one could not play and the other could not write.  Darwin could have taught, there's no doubt about that; he gained an honors degree in both law and classics at Cambridge, and his knowledge of the classics meant he was comfortable with Latin and Greek.  He would have been influenced by poets such as Homer.  Now, I stand to be corrected here, but I suspect that the nearest most of us have got to Homer is in watching "The Simpsons." Darwin had an acuity of mind that owed much of his forebears and his contemporaries.  His was a very unusual family.  Bernard trained was a lawyer and practiced law for a few years before, in his early 30s he sold his wig and gown and took up writing full-time. "Life was thrilling," he wrote.  "I had been a square peg in a round hole long enough to acquire sympathy with other misplaced people.  Now I was to a large extent my own master.  I settled down to do what I have done ever since; write weekly golf for The Times and Country Life."  Most of all, though, Bernard Darwin could play golf.  In green memories, his first volume of autobiography, he wrote, "I know there was a time when I did not play golf, and then after a blurred interval came a time when I played it with a force of enthusiasm not yet extinguished."  Twice a semi-finalist in the amateur, he represented England on eight occasions.  He reached the peak of his player career in 1922, when he was 46, and was in the U.S. to cover the first Walker Cup.  When the British and Irish captain fell ill, Darwin was drafted to replace him as player and captain, and although he lost his foursomes, he defeated W.C. Fownes, the son of the founder of Oakmont Country Club in the singles.  Darwin's career was as long as a John Daly backswing.  He started writing at the time of the great triumvirate, and although he had stopped writing for The Times in 1953, he continued wielding his pen for other publications until his death in 1961.  So in the body of his work, you have Darwin on Harry Varden, James Braid and J.H. Taylor, the great triumvirate, who won 16 of 21 Open Championships, from 1894 to 1914.  You have Varden on Ted Ray, you have Varden on Freddie Tate, John Ball and Harold Hilton, who we might as well call the great triumvirate of amateur golf.  Indeed and in fact, you have Varden on almost everybody else up 'til the time when Jack Nicklaus was approaching the first tee.  Writing about Gene Sarazen, Darwin said the American reminded him of the Cheshire Cat in Alice in Wonderland in the way his grin remained with us long after Sarazen himself had disappeared.  If you want to know how to report live golf, read Darwin on the 1913 U.S. Open where Francis Ouimet is sensationally tied with Varden and Ray and then beat them the next day in a playoff.  Darwin was the only British daily newspaper man to be present, and remarkably, it was he who marked Ouimet's card during the tumultuous playoff.  Red Smith, the great American sports writer, was once asked how to be a good sports writer, and he replied, "Be there."  The thing about Darwin was he was always there.  He was present at Carnoustie when Hogan won the Open in 1953.  We do not know what Hogan thought of Darwin, but we can guess that Hogan liked the thoughtful and insightful approach of the writer, and we know what Darwin thought of Hogan.  After Hogan had won the Open by four strokes, Darwin commented, "If he had needed a 64 on his last round, you were quite certain he could have played a 64.  Hogan gave the distinct impression he was capable of getting whatever score was needed to win."  Darwin saw a considerable amount of Bobby Jones, and one suspects that he regarded Jones in much the same light as Herb Wind regarded him.  Here is what Darwin wrote in 1944 about Jones, the incomparable amateur.  "I was in his company soon after he had finished his fourth round when he won the last of his three Open Championships here in 1930, and seeing him nearly past speech, I thought the time had come for him to call a halt and that this game could not much longer be worth such an agonizing cannel."  Darwin was always out on the golf course, for he believed he had to see as much as he could in order to understand and report on it.  Then in mid-afternoon he would retire to a corner of the clubhouse and quickly write his day's report in what can only be described as spidery handwriting.  It would appear the next day under the by-line of Our Golfing Correspondent.  There were no vainglorious picture by-lines in those days, not in The Times anyway. His writing was that of a master craftsman.  As a fruit cake is full of raisins that you come upon with pleasure, so Darwin's writing is easily recognizable by the way the reader comes coming upon literary references.  He chipped away at paragraphs until they were as clear as a pane of glass.  He chiseled away at sentences with the care of a draftsman that built Chartres Cathedral.  At all times he wrote with gusto.  It was once noted in Britain that the quality of sportswriting got better as the size of the ball used in that sport got smaller.  Thus the sports best served by literature are cricket, which has a ball slightly smaller than my hand, and golf, which has a ball one quarter or even less than the size of a cricket ball.  Of the writing about these two sports, I think that golf has been the better served, and that is because of one man.  His name is Bernard Darwin. Thank you very much (applause).  
 
FRAN CHARLES:  This is an incredibly exciting time for our sport.  Across the globe, we're in the midst of an unprecedented explosion in popularity.  Imagine what Bernard Darwin might write were he able to see how boundaries across economic and social lines have vanished, and the one of the great explosions has been in the growth and popularity of the LPGA.  Our next guest is in the inaugural year of her new job, and all signs point to her continuing the success that has made the LPGA such a great platform for so many legendary Hall of Famers.  It's her first time here at a Hall of Fame induction, so please join me in welcoming the new commissioner of the LPGA, Ms. Carolyn Bivens (applause).  
 
CAROLYN BIVENS:  It's such an honor to be here with you tonight as we induct the 2005 World Golf Hall of Fame folks.  Bernard Darwin, Alister McKenzie, Willie Parks, Sr., and the LPGA's very own Ayako Okamoto and Karrie Webb.  I officially began my tenure at the LPGA just a couple months ago, but I've been a fan of the game for a lot of years.  I'm well aware that the World Golf Hall of Fame is one of the most prestigious of all sports, so let me extend my heartfelt thanks and congratulations to the inductees and all of their families who are here tonight. It's been a whirlwind since I took the position of the LPGA Commissioner this summer.  I have traveled to tournaments from coast to coast, throughout Europe, and in Asia.  I have met with players, sponsors and staff.  I spent time with industry experts, many of whom were at golf 20/20 meetings that just included earlier this evening.  I have learned a great deal during the past couple months.  One of the most important things that's been confirmed is that as good as 2005 was for the LPGA, we're at the beginning of the most promising time in the history of women's golf.  The years of work that have been previously invested by the LPGA commissioners that have come before me, the staff, and all of the related organizations have resulted in irrefutable traction in the marketplace and in the hearts and minds of lots of fans this year.  In less than eight months, the interest of the LPGA has increased dramatically by any measure that one wants to use.  You're familiar with the story.  Annika Sorenstam wins the first three tournaments of the year and the first two majors.  She now has won nine out of 19 tournaments.  We've seen a near-record ten Rolex first-time winners this season, which only adds to the excitement and to the drama.  It means that on any given weekend, on any given Sunday, anyone can beat everyone.  We have captivating new international winners that attract new fans from around the globe.  With 18 winners representing six different countries this season, including our first winners from Colombia and from Chile.  There's 19 year old Paula Creamer, the most exciting and compelling rookie since Nancy Lopez, who, by the way, added another remarkable chapter to her career as captain of the victorious U.S. Solheim Cup in September.  Speaking of the Solheim Cup, there is no way that I can adequately articulate the caliber of player, the excitement, the fan adulation and overall experience of that week.  When you combine the myriad of dynamic and charismatic personalities, the pressure of team competition, a great golf course, compliments of Alice and Pete Dye, and you mix in more than 100,000 fans, you just begin to get a glimpse of what happened that week. Just as many of you did, I left Crooked Stick with memories of the competition indelibly etched in my mind.  We left Carmel, Indiana, energized and excited about the state of women's golf and all that it has to offer for the future of golf.  Next month, Morgan Pressel, Brittany Lang and Pam Miyasato will be at the LPGA final qualifying school.  They're poised and ready to take the lead for the next generation of young and talented professional ranks.  And just when one thinks that the picture can't get any brighter, Michelle Wie turns pro, and the eyes of the world are riveted once again on the stage of golf.  On the measurement front, we have a great story to tell, as well.  The average daily audience, up over 33 percent, weekend viewership, up over 40 percent, set new records in terms of attendance, including setting all-time records at the U.S. Open as well as at the Solheim Cup.  I'm sure that you share my excitement in these numbers by any measure are head-turning, but especially in today's environment.  They mean good things for all of us who love the sport of golf and want nothing more than to increase the participation in the years to come.  The buzz surrounding the LPGA Tour and our superstars means that a whole new generation of young golfers will be inspired to pick up the game and set goals above and beyond what we have already seen, and perhaps work toward the ultimate goal, which is to be sitting where Ayako and Karrie are tonight.  With that said, I'd like to extend a very special congratulations to both Ayako and to Karrie, both of whom are not only great players, but even more importantly, wonderful ambassadors of women's golf.  The impact that these women have had on the LPGA and golf itself in their respective countries is immeasurable.  They are national icons bringing women's golf to a new level in Japan and in Australia.  They've done it through their incredible accomplishments on the golf course and the way that they carried themselves outside of the field of competition. The LPGA is proud that two members are being inducted tonight, and we thank you both for the pursuit of excellence that has brought you to this point in your careers, and it continues to honor and to bring class to the game.  In closing, let me say that there's never been a better time to be part of the world of golf.  I'm excited and honored to have a role.  Once again, congratulations, Ayako and Karrie.  Thank you, ladies and gentlemen (applause).  
 
FRAN CHARLES:  I'd like to now introduce someone who has long been an integral part of these ceremonies and who saw our next inductee this evening reach her dream.  To present one of the LPGA's all-time greats, please welcome former commissioner of the LPGA, Mr. Ty Votaw (applause).  
 
TY VOTAW:  Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Finchem, Commissioner Bivens, 2005 inductees, distinguished guests, it is indeed an honor and a privilege to be with you this evening as we celebrate the incredible career of Karrie Webb.  I am truly humbled to be here, not only as former commissioner of the LPGA but also as a friend who has watched in awe over the past decade as Karrie Webb has matured into a remarkable golfer and an even better person. In preparing my remarks for this evening, it was rather easy to find more than enough statistics to validate a Hall of Fame career.  1996, Rolex Rookie of the Year; three-time Vary Trophy winner; was the first player to reach $1 million in season earnings, and the first rookie in all of golf to do so; the 1999 and 2000 Player of the Year; 30 tournament victories and six major championships all before her 30th birthday and the only player in LPGA history to achieve what we call the Super Career Grand Slam, winning all five majors available in her career.  But numbers and achievements tell only part of the Karrie Webb story.  Simply put, awards and statistics don't define who she is or why she is here.  If you're lucky enough to know Karrie Webb, you soon realize that it is what has inspired her that truly defines her career and in turn her life.  Karrie's grandfather, Mick Collinson, was her inspiration.  Growing up in the small town of Ayr in Queensland, Australia, it was Karrie's grandfather and her grandmother Joyce, who is here with us this evening, who first introduced her to golf when she was just four years old.  They took little Karrie out on Sunday mornings to play nine holes, grandma and granddad with their golf clubs on pull carts, and Karrie with her one plastic golf club and ball.  Karrie would play three or four holes before tiring out and then granddad would put her on his golf bag and tote her along with the pull cart the rest of the day.  It was this same grandfather who more than 20 years later from his death bed a world away insisted Karrie play the final round of the 2001 McDonald's  LPGA Championship rather than fly back to Australia to be by his side.  With the heaviest of hearts, his inspiration carried Karrie to victory that day, and although he passed away just hours before she returned home, his love and spirit have continued to inspire Karrie to enjoy the game like a little girl and achieve like a champion.  Karrie, I know that he would be very proud of you today. Karrie has also, of course, been inspired by her loving family, parents Evelyn and Robert, her sister Kate who is also here and sister Janelle in the small town of Ayr where she was born and raised.  She has never forgotten her roots, even after becoming a million dollar globetrotting celebrity, Karrie is still a small-town girl at heart who appreciates those who have helped her along the way.  Five years ago Karrie returned to Ayr for a special homecoming where she cut the ribbon on the Burdekin Delta Theater, which was a shell of a building just the year before.  Thanks to Karrie, who bought the building and paid all the restoration costs, Ayr had its first movie theater in more than 40 years.  It was her heartfelt way of saying thanks to the town that shaped her life. Another immense inspiration in Karrie's life has been Kelvin Haller, her long-time coach.  Their relationship was one formed out of trust, tested by tragedy and continues to this day because of love.  When she was 16, a tragic accident left Kelvin, her only coach, a quadriplegic.  They continue to work together, despite his disabilities and the oceans that separate them, and it's clear that not only has Kel taught her the secrets to one of the purest golf swings we've ever seen, but also how to live life with gratitude and humility, saving each day as a gift.  After a dinner meeting a few years ago with Christopher Reeve, Karrie finally found a way to channel her love for Kel into action.  The result was the Karrie Webb Celebrity Pro-Am to Benefit the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation, which was not only a tribute to her new friend but also an honor for her long-time coach.  Through her work Karrie has helped raise more than $400,000 for the Foundation, which continues Christopher Reeve's legacy in funding research for treatments for the cures of paralysis and improving the quality of life for people living with disabilities. Another great story about Karrie is the bond she developed with fellow World Golf Hall of Fame member Greg Norman.  In 1991 at the age of 16 Karrie won the Junior Masters, a national event for Australian juniors.  Her prize, aside from a pewter trophy and a blazer, which are on display at the World Golf Hall of Fame, was a weekend with Greg and his family at their home, and they have remained close ever since.  It's amazing to think that without even knowing it that weekend, one Hall of Famer and national icon was hosting what would turn out to be another.  Ever since Karrie qualified for the LPGA Tour in 1995, with a broken bone in her wrist, I might add, it's been a privilege to watch her achieve more than she ever dreamed possible, and as I said earlier, I feel very fortunate that I have come to know the person behind the trophies and the people behind her who have inspired her every day.  But the funny thing about inspiration and Karrie Webb, the things that have inspired her are the very things that have caused me to be amazed by her; her commitment to her family, her commitment to her community and her country, her commitment to the history and traditions of this great game, and above all else, her commitment to excellence.  Those are the reasons Karrie has inspired us throughout her career, and for those reasons, she will not only be remembered as one of the game's greatest but also as someone with a kind heart who is a gentle champion and a beloved friend. Without further ado, let's take a moment to enjoy some highlights from Karrie's incredible career (applause).  (Karrie Webb video shown.)  Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honor that I introduce to you World Golf Hall of Fame member Karrie Webb (applause).  
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, it's just so unbelievable to be here tonight.  Thank you, Ty, thank you so much for introducing me, and thank you for your very kind words. However, I think perhaps we had the same speech writer tonight, and I hope I don't bore you with the rest of my speech because I think Ty said mine word for word.  Golf has been a part of my life for as long as I can remember.  It has been a huge part of shaping me into the person that I am today.  My first memory of golf, which Ty shared with you earlier, is when, as a four-year old, my grandparents, Mick and Joyce Collinson, would pick me up at 7:00 a.m. on Sunday mornings to take me out to play nine holes with them.  I had my little set of plastic clubs and off we'd go.  I look back at that now, and I have to think that my grandparents had to be the most patient people in the world.  Even back then, I was very competitive.  I had to finish a hole that I started, even if it was taking us half an hour to play.  Of course, at four, I couldn't walk the entire nine holes, so I'd sit on the back of my granddad's golf bag and he would pull me and his clubs around the rest of the way. Finally one Sunday I got to frustrated when the head of my plastic club flew off again and went further than my golf ball that I'd had enough.  That day I remember my grandma telling me that for my eighth birthday that they would get me a real set of golf clubs.  Sure enough, on the morning of my eighth birthday, my grandparents came over with the clubs and my parents had the bag and buggy for me.  It seems such a huge jump from that memory to be standing in front of you tonight.  To some, coming from the sugar cane town of Ayr in rural Australia to be playing golf amongst the world's best women may have seemed like a pie-in-the-sky dream, but it never phased me, however.  I have dreamt of being a professional golfer since I was 11 years old.  I feel very fortunate to have been born with the talent to play this game.  But that wasn't all this took to get me here tonight.  It was the love and passion I have for the game of golf, and the determination to work as hard as I needed to to fulfill my dream.  I remember the day when I boldly came home and told my parents that I wanted to be a professional golfer.  I had just been down to the Gold Coast to watch the 1986 Queensland Open.  I had gotten to watch my hero Greg Norman play for the first time.  Being able to watch him play in that tournament was all the inspiration I needed as a kid to hopefully some day follow in his footsteps.  I feel very fortunate to have gotten to have known Greg since that time.  He has not only been an inspiration to me growing up, but has become a good friend and is always there to answer my questions or give any advice.  Since turning pro in 1994, the ride has been so unbelievable.  I have so many great stories and memories, on and off the course.  As for the good memories on the course, it is so hard for me to single out any tournament in particular.  I will always cherish every tournament that I ever won, from my first win to my first win in Australia to my first major win.  My achievements on the golf course have way surpassed any expectations and even most of my wildest dreams.  I didn't do this on my own, however; there are many important people in my life that I have to thank.  Without their influence, I know I would not be standing here tonight.  To my parents, Robert and Evelyn Webb, thank you so much, firstly -- by the way, there's an over or under when I was about to cry.  I think I made it further than I thought (laughter).  Firstly, thank you for your unconditional love.  Thank you for your support and willingness to do everything in your power to make an 11-year-old's dream a reality.  There aren't enough words to express my appreciation for everything you have done.  To my sisters, Janelle and Katie, thank you for being two of my best friends and always supporting me the way you have.  To my grandparents, Bob and Marian Webb and Mick and Joyce Collinson, to all of my family, thank you for always being there and for your tremendous support.  I couldn't have done this without you.  I also couldn't have done this without the support of some really great friends, especially of those here in the States.  You are my family away from home.  Thank you so much for your support.  I would also like to thank those of you who have traveled long distances to share this occasion with me.  I really appreciate all of you being here.  The next person that I'd like to thank, and again, thanks just doesn't seem enough, is Kelvin Haller.  Kelvin has been in my life for as long as I can remember.  He has been a good friend of our family for a very long time and is the initial reason why my parents first asked him to help me out.  My relationship with Kelvin was very informal the first few years.  He would help me out whenever he saw me practicing on the range, and in return, he would caddie for him in all the big events at the club.  As the years progressed and my desire to learn and take my game to the next level grew, Kelvin and I would spend more and more time practicing and playing together.  I learned just as much from what he taught me on the range as I did from watching him play.  We had such a special understanding of one another that years later we have been able to communicate the intricacies of the golf game through conversation only.  And boy, have we had some conversations.  Some more heated than others, some a little louder than others, but in the end, we were both able to get our points across to get me to achieve what I wanted to.  Kelvin, I know you wish you were here tonight.  I just want you to know that you have been such an inspiration to me in so many ways.  Over the last couple of years, Kelvin and I have had the help of Ian Triggs.  Ian came along when I needed more of a constant set of eyes in the States.  The three of us have been working well since, and I would just like to thank Ian for all of his help and advice.  I have always set very high standards for myself, and if I don't live up to them, I can become easily frustrated.  Having this mentality unfortunately often spills over into my expectations of the people around me.  Certainly Calvin and Ian are two that have been witness to this.  There are two other guys that have probably bore the brunt of these expectations over the past ten years, Evan Minster and Mike Patterson have been my two mainstay caddies during my career.  Evan worked for me from 1996 until 2000, and Mikey has now worked for me since 2001.  They are both here tonight, so I figure I couldn't have been too hard on them (laughter).  They are two of my best friends, and I couldn't have achieved what I have if it weren't for them being by my side throughout the years.  Thanks, guys, for everything.  There are many women who have paved the way for me to be here tonight, not only to be here, but they have provided me and many other women a place to play professional golf.  To our founders of the LPGA Tour, members of the LPGA Hall of Fame and all members past and present, thank you for the past 55 years.  Thank you for your great play, hard work, and dedication to making the LPGA what it is today.  A big thanks also goes to the staff of the LPGA.  Thank you all for working so hard to provide us with the opportunities that we enjoy today.  I have had a lot of great sponsors throughout the span of my career.  Tonight, I would especially like to thank Epson and Srixon for their support over the last several years.  Although I have spent the majority of the past ten years in the United States, I am always going to be an Aussie at heart.  I'm proud to be an Australian, a Queenslander, and to have grown up in Ayr.  Playing in Australia has always been a favorite part of my year, and I have always loved playing in front of my home crowd, and I've always been given a tremendous amount of support from the fans.  I would like to thank the Australian Ladies Professional Golf Tour and Women's Golf Australia for providing me with the opportunity to play at home.  To my four fellow inductees and their families, congratulations.  I am honored to be entering the World Golf Hall of Fame with you.  I would especially like to congratulate Ayako.  I think Ayako is a very deserved addition to the World Golf Hall of Fame.  Not many people can say that what they have achieved on the golf course has inspired their whole nation, but in Ayako's case she has.  Omedetogozaimasu, Ayako-san. The beauty of golf is one day I love it, the next day I hate it.  But no matter how my day goes on the course, I get up and I do it again.  It is a constant challenge of working my way closer to perfection, even though I will never get there. Like I said earlier, it is really hard for me to believe that I am here tonight.  I still feel like that little girl with big dreams from a small town called Ayr.  It really wasn't that long ago that as an 11-year-old when I first saw Greg Norman play that I came home and told my parents that I wanted to be a professional golfer.  It wasn't that long ago that I read about, watched play and idolized many of these very people I am standing amongst tonight.  So I think it will always be a very surreal feeling to be held in the same esteem that I hold each and every member of the World Golf Hall of Fame.  Thank you (applause).  
 
FRAN CHARLES:  Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes this extraordinary evening.  Golf's enduring legacy has been enriched even more tonight in celebrating the achievements of pioneers like Willie Parks, Sr., Bernard Darwin and Dr. Alister McKenzie, we'd better understand the road this game has traveled.  In listening to Ayako and Karrie and saluting their accomplishments, we appreciate the endless possibilities the future holds.  Five greats, each from different walks of life, from different corners of the globe united by a passion for golf.  Their character and accomplishments have earned them entry into the World Golf Hall of Fame.  Thank you for gathering with us tonight to welcome and congratulate the World Golf Hall of Fame's class of 2005.  Until next year, goodnight from World Golf Village in St. Augustine, Florida.  
 

End of FastScripts . 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT