FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 3, 2004
Tim Finchem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOB COMBS:  Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here with us for our program this afternoon.  I'm Bob Combs of the PGA TOUR and I very much appreciate your attendance here.

We are here to announce a very innovative and exciting program that's been invented for the Tour and its charities in a multi dimensional way.

We have asked these three gentleman to explain the way.  You all know Bob Tway, 18 time PGA TOUR winner, making his 18th consecutive start here at the Ford Championship.  And Tony Zook, senior vice president of Astrozeneca.  He represents the commercial operations for AZ here in the United States.  And, of course, PGA TOUR Commissioner Tim Finchem.

Saturdays and charity.  Those are two themes that you here a lot about.  Saturday is a very big day for us.  Obviously it's moving day, the day players get positioned for a run at the championship on Sunday, and it's the highest rated sport viewing day across all of sport.  This year, it's been the highest rated program on Saturdays each week; a little known fact, but one with I think is important.

Charity you know is very important to us.  We have driving towards $1 billion all time charity contributions and you are going to hear more about that in the next couple of years.

Today we are going announce a program that puts Saturdays and charity together in a very innovative way.  To provide the outlines of that program, I'd like to ask Commissioner Finchem to begin.
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   Thank you, Bob.  Good afternoon, everyone.  As you know, giving back has become more and more a part of what the PGA TOUR is all about.  It's not just something that happens.  We all work closely with tournaments to make it happen in a growing and impactful way, and it has really become part of our mission statement at the TOUR level.

I'd like to take a minute and talk about a new exciting program with Astrozeneca that we think is going to help not just generate some positive exposure for Astrozeneca and CRESTOR, but it will do that.  And not just raise some more money for charity, which is real important for us, but it will do that.  But also, just communicate the whole idea of PGA TOUR and giving back and what it means.

We've enjoyed a relationship with Astrozeneca for the last couple of years.  We are excited to expand that relationship right now to focus on its CRESTOR product.  Today we are announcing the CRESTOR Charity Challenge.  It will be a year long program, and each week Astrozeneca and CRESTOR will donate $100,000 at virtually all of our co sponsored events this year in excess of $2.5 million, but on average going forward in excess of $3  million annually.

Now, these dollars will be split between a contribution each week to a charity of the beneficiary of the tournament that's played that week.  The other half of the dollars will be contributed to charities chosen by the individual players.  The players affected are the player or players who lead the tournament at the end of the third round.

So if a player is leading on Saturday, the end of that round, $50,000 will be designated to the charities of the player's choice, and the local tournament charities will also benefit in the amount of $50,000.

We think the way this program is constructed with exposure for these commitments on television will be an exciting way to communicate, as Bob says, to the highest sports audience on a lot of Saturdays of the year, highest level sports audience on television, the concept and the relationship between the players, the tournament, charities, charity giving and of course a tremendous charitable commitment by Astrozeneca.  In combination with that, as Tony will explain in a minute, there will be some ways to communicate the benefits of CRESTOR, as well.

Tony Zook, who is with us, of Astrozeneca will give us some additional details of this program and lay it out for you.  Obviously, the reason I'm here is we are exceedingly pleased at this development.  It does a number of things and it pushes us toward that $1 billion mark that we are focused on here coming up in two or three years.

In addition to the CRESTOR Charity Challenge, I'd just like to make a couple other comments about our partnership with Astrozeneca.  This program will involve an interactive on site component at a lot of our tournaments, including this week.  CRESTOR becomes the official sponsor of our TOUR Fantasy Golf at PGATOUR.com.  Astrozeneca and CRESTOR will sponsor a year end charity special to be aired on ABC television on December 18th.

If you've seen that the last couple of years, we take a lot of pride in the stories that we're able to communicate through a network special broadcast throughout the country and in other countries around the world about what happens with PGA TOUR tournaments and charities.

Now, lastly, let me introduce Tony.  It is my pleasure to bring up the senior vice president of commercial operations for Astrozeneca, Tony Zook.  Tony, thank you very much for your commitment and we look forward to working with you.

TONY ZOOK:  As do we.  Thank you very much.

Thank you, Commissioner Finchem and welcome everyone.  On behalf of Astrozeneca, the CRESTOR branding and our 11,000 employees based in the United States, I'd like to say how excited we are to be here and to be part of the Ford Championship at Doral to kick off our exciting partnership with the PGA TOUR and the Champions Tour.

For those of you who are not familiar with Astrozeneca, just indulge me to give you a brief background.  We are a major international pharmaceutical company.  We engage in research development manufacture and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals, and we focus gastroenterology, enterology, respiratory and certainly cardiovascular disease.  Specifically, we've been battling the cardiovascular disease for now in excess of 40 years.  We have a broad variety of effective medications that we believe dramatically decrease the risk and impact of a number of potentially deadly problems such as high cholesterol, high blood pressure, heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, and we have products in ongoing development for stroke and diabetes, as well.

I wanted today, though, to share with you how CRESTOR PGA TOUR championship     the TOUR partnership came about.  As you know in today's competitive marketplace there is certainly no shortage of opportunities for us to explore, be they sports entities, teams, and leagues to consider.  Before we considered a partner, we wanted to make sure that that partner shared our same core beliefs around giving back to the communities and really reaching out to the communities to help educate and share information.

That's why we believe that Astrozeneca, the partnership with the PGA TOUR is the perfect fit.  We believe that both our organizations are dedicated to improving the communities we serve.  We want to reach out to the communities and provide effective information for people relative to their health care.

In addition, alongside Astrozeneca's commitment, we wanted to highlight our cardiovascular product, CRESTOR, because we believe that the PGA TOUR will significantly raise consumer awareness about cholesterol and help educate people to seek better information around their total heart health.  As Commissioner Finchem mentioned earlier, the centerpiece of our partnership is the CRESTOR Charity Challenge, a season long weekly competition that recognizes the tournament leader entering the final round at select PGA TOUR events throughout the year.

The CRESTOR Charity Challenge will not only add exciting an new twist to the PGA TOUR, but it's also going to help the PGA TOUR reach their milestone, $1 billion in charitable contributions over the next few years, an accomplishment I think they should be applauded for.

Beginning this weekend, and at most PGA tournaments Astrozeneca on behalf of CRESTOR will contribute $100,000 to the CRESTOR Charity Challenge.  One half of that money will be given in the name of the winning player to a health care related charity of their choice and half will be given to a charity selected by the tournament.

I'm pleased today to announce the that Ford Championship at Doral's charity of choice and the recipient of $50,000 will be the Local South Florida chapter of the American Heart Association.  On behalf of Astrozeneca, I'd like to thank and acknowledge Ed Petrokof (ph), the chairman of the local chapter as well as Jaclyn Allard (ph), for their presence here today.  I'd encourage all of you to attend the first award presentation that will happen this weekend.  Weather permitting, it will be Saturday at the end of play.

Another very important aspect of the CRESTOR Charity Challenge is the on site activities that are designed to help people improve their cardiovascular health and their golf games by consulting with pro.  We are pleased to offer blood pressure screening and provide additional materials to help consumers better understand their cardiovascular health, and I'd encourage you to take a look for you yourself to see the value of the program.  You'll find it located between the 1st and 18th fairway.

We look forward a very long relationship with the TOUR and its fans and certainly the charities.  And speaking of players, I'm thrilled to have the pleasure to introduce our next speaker, someone with whom you are all very familiar and whose success on the golf course speaks for itself.  Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome, Bob Tway.

BOB TWAY:  Thanks very much, Tony.  It's nice for me to be here.  I'm going to tell a story a little bit later, but this particular product, CRESTOR, Astrozeneca kind of have a special place in my heart.

As Tim was saying, we on TOUR rely very, very heavily obviously on corporate sponsors and it's amazing how     I know through Tim's involvement, and I think the players, too, we are able to bring in great companies.  I think that's the neat thing about it.  We're very fortunate in golf.

I think the good thing about golf is we are able to have a sport that people want to be involved with, they want to relate to, and with the Pro Ams and all of the things that we're able to do, I think it's a good venue for the corporations to entertain their clients.  There are a lot easier places to do it at other sporting events.  We're very lucky, and so now we get to add another great company with Astrozeneca and we're very fortunate.

Obviously, we make a huge charitable donations every single year.  I think that's the neat thing about the TOUR is we're able to give back a lot.  It means a lot to us, too.

This particular program is neat because not only is the tournament benefitting with more money for their charity, the player who leads on Saturday will get to donate to his charity towards home, if he has a special one.  I sure would like to be leading a lot on Saturday and then do well on Sunday, too, but to get something close to home would be wonderful.

Again, on behalf of the players, we very excited about it.  I think it's going to be     people talk about, it's nice to lead on a Saturday because you're maybe going to win on Sunday.  Now it's really nice to lead on Saturday.  (Laughter.)

So anyway, I think we're very excited about it.  I think more of as more of the players find out about it, they are going to be very excited about it, also.

I was talking a little bit about why this hits home to me.  My father had a serious heart attack when he was 41 and since then has had a heart transplant.  So through that I was tested very early in 1986 when I was only 26 years owed.  I had elevated cholesterol, 375.  I was 170 pounds tall and skinny and I didn't look like I had a problem, but, you know, through hereditary, your genes, you're dealt with what you got.  I got good golf genes from dad, but also bad blood genes.

I'm on cholesterol medicine and have been for the last 18 years.  As you go through the Zolofts, Lipitor; you always get to where you're wanting to go but not quite.  I went on CRESTOR, I guess it was the end of August when it first came out on my doctor's recommendation, and I went right to 165.  So I'm very pleased about that.  My doctor was pleased.

Anyway, it's kind of neat that you can be involved with something that actually really helps.  If we can get the word out to people, that they do need to check; diet and exercise is obviously very good, but sometimes you need a little extra help.

Anyway, that's just kind of why this one hits a little bit more close to home than some of the other things.  On behalf of the players, welcome.  It's a great program.  And we'll give more to charity, which is wonderful.

BOB COMBS:  Thank you very much, Bob.  We're able to have all three gentleman with us.  We would entertain any questions on the new program, the CRESTOR Charity Challenge.
Q.  Tony, why do you think that the PGA TOUR, of all the sports, is going to create that much more public awareness of your product and it's benefits?

TONY ZOOK:  That's a great question.  You know, certainly we looked across the spectrum, and there are a number of very good organizations that you could choose to partner with.  But at the heart of the PGA TOUR is the concept of giving back to the communities and really educating the communities and looking for venues to educate the communities.  We thought that was the perfect partnership and the perfect fit for Astrozeneca.

Really, the idea of giving $1 billion of charitable contribution, that's exactly the kind of organization that we want to be aligned with.  We thought the CRESTOR Charity Challenge was a perfect fit with the PGA TOUR because it achieves both our outcomes and that is giving back to the communities, looking for healthier communities and the opportunity to educate.  We thought it was the perfect fit for us.
Q.  Will you have the testing stations, blood pressure testing at every event?

TONY ZOOK:  I think what we are going to do is evaluate the program as we go along.  Certainly today we are doing the blood pressure screening and providing information for patients on a healthy heart.  I think over time we'll deal with what the consumers are saying that what they are most interested in and we'll adapt as appropriately.
Q.  And what happens if there's a three tie?

BOB COMBS:  I think the correct answer to that is the money will be split among those three players, and they will each have something to give back to their communities.

For questions of a general nature, we have a few minutes with Tim, so please fire away.
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   Let me just preface by saying I'm delighted that Ford has sponsored for a second year.  I think the tournament here is making great strides and we look forward to a great week.  With that, I'll try to answer anything that you would like.
Q.  Pretty good two months to start the season.  Of all the good things, exciting things that have happened, do you have a personal favorite?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   Since we started?
Q.  January, February, the results of the tournaments.
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   Well, I picked on Chris Riley about this.  If he makes the putt at 18 in San Diego, we go into the 60 Minutes time frame, our rating goes up probably a full point.  Chris, crushed me.  (Laughter.) So that was not my favorite moment.

I don't know, I think every week has been really good.  Obviously, you like to see close competition in playoffs.  The end of the Davis Love quarterfinal match, pretty special, when he hit that 3 wood in there.  There's been a lot of good moments.

Every week, our numbers are up nicely.  We've had good finishes, good leaderboards, younger players are playing well.  It's just been very solid.  As I go around the country and hear from people, that's what I hear from people; you were great last year and you're off to a great start this year.  So that's good to hear.
Q.  What was your perception of the fan participation in the Match Play with Davis?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   Well, first of all, I see stuff written in the paper or hear comments, I think this is an important thing, so let me just comment on it and I'll make two or three points.

One, I think it needs to be kept in perspective.  The reality is that we have successfully, because of Tiger and other players, Sergio Garcia, a lot of exciting players out here, attracted a lot of new fans to the sport over the last five or six years.  We recognize when we attract new fans, we have a responsibility to try to educate them on the kind of environment that you have to have to play this game.  I think we've had some success.  It's a challenge to officials, to our marshals, to our volunteers, and to our security people, which we have a good number now.

But, problems occur.  They occur every week.  This is not an isolated situation.  They occur every week.  We have had instances between players and individual fans, professional photographers, amateur photographers, cell phone users, virtually every week.  So we deal with that.  We ask fans to turn off their cell phones.  We ask fans to observe the kind of environment that we have to have competitively.  And we're not 100% successful.  From time to time there are exchanges between players and individuals who don't respect the kind of environment we want to have and it happens.   It happened actually Sunday at The Match Play between other players who were playing and their caddies and players or whatever; if you were following these groups, you know that.  So it happens.

In our sport, we give the fan an unusual amount of access and proximity to the athlete, something that you don't see in any other sport.  But, we expect and really must demand that if you're going to have that access, you have to conduct yourself in a way that is not interfering with the flow of competition.  It's not right.  And to suggest that in this day and age, we have to be like a hockey game or a football game is just ridiculous.  We are not going to accept that.

We are going to encourage fans coming out and we want them to support loudly, I hope, good play, and if they want to make a comment about bad play, that's fine.  But to try to intentionally distract a player because you feel one way or the other or you just don't understand, that's just not acceptable.

That said, in this instance, I think the unfortunate thing was that our staff, our marshals, our volunteers, our security people did not react to the situation sooner.  As a consequence, it put Davis in the situation where individual interchange became what happened.  That's not good for anybody because it gets misinterpreted as has been the case here.

We have to do a better job.  We have a good plan, I think, every week in dealing with crowds.  They are all over the map in terms of size, in terms of new fans, in terms of the amount of alcohol that gets consumed.  But we have to execute harder.  I think we should take responsibility here, because this wasn't an incident that was the first time it happened or the second time it happened or the third time it happened.  This was multiple instances of an individual trying to distract a player.  It was inappropriate behavior.  I feel like we should have been in the middle of that taking care of it before the player had to take steps himself.

So, I feel strongly about that.  I feel strongly that we have to execute out there better.  It's still going to be an imperfect world, but we've got to educate and we also have to make an example.  If an individual or individuals are not appropriately observing the kind of environment we want, then we have to take steps to remove them and then other fans will see we're just not going to have that.

In different sports it's different things.  During the World Series, we had a player pull out, but it wasn't for making noise; it was for having a fistfight or something.  We don't have that in our sport and we want noise, but not noise that's created to distract and to take away from the environment that we have to have.
Q.  What's a player supposed to do?  What do you want your players to do?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   The players are asked, if they have a problem with a fan to bring it to the attention of the scorer and then let the scorer bring in an official who will in turn, if necessary, bring in security people.

I've spoken to Davis on this subject at length in the last 24 hours, and Davis makes it quite clear that if he had to do this over again, he would have gone to somebody; that in hindsight, taking control of the situation himself, because he now knows how it gets interpreted wasn't the best thing to do.  If he had to do it over again, he wouldn't do it again.  And I appreciate his attitude on that.

I also recognize that Davis and Tiger are toward the end of three days of 36 hole competition.  There's a lot on the line.  There's a lot of pressure involved.  There is a fan who is clearly trying to distract you from trying to beat the No. 1 player in the world.  So I don't have a big problem with Davis taking matters into his own hands when we didn't take steps in this situation.

But I appreciate his attitude that he also recognizes that we've got to follow a process here and the best thing to do, if at all possible     but let me tell you, these guys are out there, they are playing for a lot of money, there's a lot on the line, there is enormous pressure in these tournaments and if a fan is out of line, we are going to have instances where there is a personal exchange.  We've got to do a better job of executing and the players I think will help us out in getting that done.
Q.  Will a fan be removed in most instances if a player requests it or is it just a case by case basis where an official has to make a judgment call?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   It's a case by case basis.  We have players that are stalked.  We have players that are bothered and harassed for odd reasons.  Our security team is professional and they know how to deal with different circumstances.  I wouldn't want to publically say we're going to handle this, this way.  There's a myriad of circumstances and circumstantial information.

I think the situation was probably eventually handled here.  It's just unfortunate that it wasn't handled earlier and it didn't lead to a player being distracted and the player feeling like he had to take steps on his own.
Q.  There's no way you can have officials on every hole so at some level a volunteer asks marshals who are generally people who are watching as much golf in some instances as some of the fans, how do you re train these people to sort of take     to step in?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   Well, we are retraining.  If we hear cell phones, if  we see photography from the galleries, we are gradually doing a better job of bringing that to the attention of our officials who will in turn have the cell phone picked up or the camera taken away or the individual who has had a little bit too much to drink being counseled or being taken off the property.

We have increased the intensity over the next five years significantly and the marshals     not just marshals but the volunteers, scorers, volunteers that walk with the group in any capacity and our security team to be more vigilant about problems and to be prepared to step in and try to cut it off.  Where we know we have a pattern of issues because of alcohol, we've worked with the tournaments to cut alcohol sales off.  We've done some things in terms of staging.  We don't allow the fans quite as close in certain areas.  We have taken a range of steps.

Obviously, we have to protect the character of the competition.  And I'm not satisfied that we've been aggressive enough in our staffing or with our volunteers when you do this.  It's a difficult thing.  A volunteer is not a policeman.  But, bringing things to the attention of those that can take steps and having a communication system on property that allows that bringing to the attention and really get it executed in a hurry is something that we can do and probably need to do a better job of it.
Q.  Since Sunday's incident have you done anything specifically as far as sending that message to the players or the officials?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   We are intensifying our execution efforts in terms of our plans.  We think our plans are pretty solid.  But re doubling our efforts on the execution side of working with our volunteer team to working with security, making sure that people understand the kind of things that we are looking for and then also, struggling with     we can do that better.

The more difficult challenge is the education, I think, of the fan.  What is acceptable, what is not acceptable in getting that word out and how.  We can do it in printed material, electronic scoreboards.  We might even resort to doing some things on television in terms of just trying to educate fans about, hey, these are the dos and don'ts out here.  This isn't hockey.  We can't play the game if certain things go on.  We want you out here, we want you close by, but we demand your respect, as well, and then we'll get along fine.

We love the fans.  And unfortunately, this has been the case in other places.  You cannot paint the fan with a brush that's colored by three or four people.  So, we recognize that, too.  Our fans, by and large, week in and week out, are terrific.  They know how to behave and yet be very supportive, but where we have a bad apple, we've got to pull them out of the barrel or take steps.
Q.  But you had not felt the need to reiterate to the players how to handle...
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   Yes, we are, we have an ongoing effort to tell players.  There's always a silver lining in situation, so this situation is going to bring focus for all of our people in the family, volunteers, marshals, our staff, how we need to up take our execution.  It's also going to bring to the attention of the players this issue, what do I do if I'm in that situation; what's the best way to get this situation handled.  We'll be talking about it at our player meeting.  It will have a positive effect.  It just unfortunate that people who     and I might say that the commentary I've seen in the last 48 hours if it's commentary from people that know anything about this game, that cover this game, it's commentary that understands what happened here and keeps it in the proper perspective.  If it's commentary in a couple of situations, either from an individual or individuals that don't understand the game, it's somewhat critical of the player and not the fan, or in one case in particular     maybe there are other cases     it's really sort of for lack of a better phrase, smash mouth journalism; let's cause a controversy and call everybody an idiot which is unfortunate.
Q.  You mentioned you had changed some staging areas where there might be some problems; could you ever see a situation where you have to take the ropes further back from the playing area to create more space?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   I suppose we could.  It's easy to foresee that.  But our objective here is to maintain, and in some ways, even enhance, I would say, the accessibility of the fan to our players.  Our players understand that this is a unique thing in sports.  We are a long way from doing that.  We want to encourage fans to come out and take advantage of this accessibility and work much harder to take care of the isolated problems     not isolated, but the number of problems that we have which thankfully are not any bigger than we have.  I think this is a manageable problem but this is something we've got to work on.

Well, that's that subject.
Q.  A few years ago the West Coast Swing was struggling and the Tour stepped in to help out with the West Coast Swing.  Is there any thought of doing any type of Florida swing, similar to what you did at the beginning of the year and also the fall finish?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   We have a swing, per se, with some additional prize money that flows to performance on the West Coast; true.  That's just one part of what's happened on West Coast.  If you step back eight, ten years and you look at the West Coast and you see where it is now, the way the schedule flows, where the tournaments are played, real early in the year, we had an event in Hawaii that was stuck out there in the middle of the schedule that never had a very good field.  There are lots of different things.  There was the quality of the golf courses, the size of the purses, a range of things.

Yes, I think that the scheduling mix for the next four years, seven, eight, nine, ten, the relationship between that schedule in Florida, how we can     we've got good, solid events in Florida.  I think they are in really good shape.

Our objective always is to look at something and ask ourselves, how can we do it better.  We are always looking at different parts of the schedule and that will certainly be a focus here.  Although, on balance, I'm real pleased with this four week stretch.  It's going to be delightful.  But I always think it could be better.

I do think that within our schedule, if one tournament is in a date that for whatever reason, the weeks behind it, the weeks in front of it, is uniquely affected, then that's a date that probably should be shared over a number of years by three, four or five tournaments so that over time everything balances up a little bit.  Those are the kind of things we'll be looking at as we plan the next four years.
Q.  The Match Play, a lot of people want to play there and it does hurt players coming here; sometimes it helps if a player loses early, but is there any thought to moving The Match Play or does that need to stay in one place?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   All of these things are being talked about and thought about.  How we do it the next four years is something that we'll have to deal with.

We like that period of February for The Match Play, it makes sense.  But how the West Coast is generally structured, the length of it, the number of weeks, which tournaments, are subject to a lot of factors in the next 18 months, sponsorship renewals, television schedules.  These issues about moving tournaments, there's a lot of different things that impact it and I wouldn't want to speculate now as to where we might come out.
Q.  It was just suggested that if a tournament has a difficult date, like maybe Doral does, it should be shared.  Would that suggestion be looking at possibly Doral, Honda, Bay Hill sharing this date, rotating or am I misinterpreting?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   I don't want to speculate it.  I kind of like the flow here in Florida; it works pretty well.  It's traditional.  On the other hand, when we get into the scheduling business, we start with a blank blackboard and we start penciling in and we look at all of the options of how, given this step and that step, what makes the overall tour stronger.  The overall tour; not this three weeks or that three weeks.  What's the best and strongest presentation of the entire tour we can make.  I think we've made very good progress the last ten years.  I think we can make more progress the next five years but again it's a lot of individual decisions.  We'll just have to see where we come out at end of the year.
Q.  What about the format of The Match Play; are you pleased with that specifically?  Do you like the idea of 36 hole final on Sunday
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   I'm delighted with the Match Play.  Our sponsor is delighted with The Match Play.  I get the sense that our fans like The Match Play.  I think Wednesday is one of the greatest days of the year competitively at The Match Play.  I think the idea is that because in Match Play, 18 holes, you can have an upset, the top players may not be around     well, that can happen.  On average, you know, if you stand back and look at 10 years or 20 years of The Match Play, let's look at the last five.  The No. 1 player in the world was there three times.  Those issues I don't think are particularly important.

I think what's fundamental is one week a year, we have Match Play.  All of the other weeks we play medal play.  The fans like it, the players like it, the sponsor likes it.  It's exciting.  We have tweaked it a little bit in terms of how we schedule those matches because we moved the quarters to Saturday a couple of years ago.  We like that.

This year because of rain we ended up having what truly was a tournament that had significant stamina implications.

If you get to the finals right now, you're going to play a 36 whole week end on the existing format, twice.  That's good. That fits right in with our strategy of trying to get fans to understand the athleticism of our players.  It's another element.  We went through this when we talked about carts a few years ago.  It is another and very significant element of creating the greatest challenge for the best players in the world.

This week, we do it this way.  I'm real comfortable with it.  I think it works.

By the way, I would say that one of the reasons     not the only reason     that there is more intensity among the players about the Accenture Match Play and more interest is because of history.  Each year we have a little more history.  Right now we have some pretty interesting history.  One guy has won 12 matches in a row against the Top 64 players in the world.  That's a pretty special record.  I'm not so sure that if he loses in the first round, I'd like to know how many years it's going to be until somebody wins 12 matches again.  That's a pretty good history and there's a lot of other history in terms of how a player fairs in Match Play.

So each year, you have more history.  I'm kind of a traditionalist.  I want to see the comparatives over the long term about how players fared in this particular competition.  If you go messing around with the format you really can't do that and I think that's something the fans would like to see.  That's my personal opinion.
Q.  You're talking about history; can you get your arms around Tiger going for five straight at one tournament, Bay Hill, in two weeks and where that rates in terms of accomplishment?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   Where does it rate?
Q.  It's never been done.

BOB COMBS:  It would be a first.
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   I'm befuddled.  The kinds of things he does continue to amaze.  But that's a good point.  If you like to sit and talk about this stuff if you're a fan and argue about what is more impressive, somebody     we were talking about Top 10 finishes in a row, and somebody said, well, that was six wins in a row or eight wins where do these different things rank in terms of what's impressive.  It's great stuff.  I think Match Play, one week a year, has a nice fit in terms of the overall complexion of what we present.  I think that's what we need to keep focused on.
Q.  For all the positives you said about The Match Play, and I agree with you, the fans love it, it's just a fun event, might there be another Match Play, maybe not the level of a World Golf Championships event, but one of the medal events be somehow changed some day; is that a possibility?
COMMISSIONER FINCHEM:   Well, I don't know, but I suppose if we do another one, we could fiddle around and change that one every year.  How about that?  (Laughter.)

Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT