QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 3, 2013
Daniel Brands
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  D. BRANDS/G. Monfils
6‑1, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I think many people are surprised not only by your results but by the way you play.   For all who have not seen you before, do you play this way on all surfaces?
DANIEL BRANDS:   Yeah.   Not always, but if I have confidence and I feel good, then I can play like today.   And, yeah, I hope I can keep on playing next match tomorrow and let's see what happens.

Q.   It must be tough to play in this very aggressive style on courts which are not always so fast.   Do you find it harder to do so in these conditions or not?
DANIEL BRANDS:   No, it's not so tough for me here because my plan is to play always aggressive and, yeah, just be, yeah, close to the line.   That's very important for me.   Yeah, that's my goal.

Q.   Two connected questions, if I may.   Did you think the second set had gone when you were 5‑2 and 30‑Love down?   And how is it that you win your points in such very fast streaks?
DANIEL BRANDS:   For the first question, that was no matter for me to give up.   I just tried to give my best every point, point by point.   Yeah, that's what I do. 
Yeah, if you have a good serve, I mean, you get quick points and easy points.   Not always, but sometimes.   For me, it's important, quick points and a lot of pressure for the opponent.

Q.   It's the first tournament of the year.   You came as a qualifier.   Now you're in the semifinals.   Just tell me, would you have wished for any better at the beginning? 
DANIEL BRANDS:   Yeah, it's great.   I mean, I had a good preparation at home.   I had three matches in the quallies, which were also not so easy. 
If you win the matches, you get confidence.   That's very important for me.   Yeah, I'm just happy now.   Yeah, I can't believe it right now.

Q.   Yesterday you played against an Egyptian player ranked outside the top 400.   I just wanted you to comment on his game and whether you think he has potential. 
DANIEL BRANDS:   Yeah, that was a tough match for me.   He was playing good tennis and was always, yeah, always fighting every point.
That made it really hard for me to respond.   But at the end I was just happy that I won the match.   Yeah, he's a good player with high potential, I think.

Q.   What do you think your potential is?
DANIEL BRANDS:   Yeah, that's a good question.   (Smiling.)
Yeah, I have to try to get into the top 100.   That's my goal for me, and then let's see what happens. 
If I play like today, I mean, I can also be top 50, top 30, top 20.   That's hard to say.   But I just keep on practicing hard, working hard, and, yeah, try my best. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT