NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS CUBS
October 22, 2016
Kyle Hendricks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Cubs - 5   
Dodgers - 0   
THE MODERATOR: First question.   
 Q.  Sure looked like you were pitching like it was just any, another game.  
KYLE HENDRICKS: That was the mindset trying to go into it.  A lot of talk, obviously, about the guy on the other side there, Kershaw.  Best in the game, lived up to it in Game 2, but my focus was the same as always, make good pitches, simplify as much as I can, and keep my team in the game.  It's not just me out there, we got a good group of guys behind me, awesome lineup, this make it's so much fun to accomplish it with them.   
 Q.  Javy's made so many plays under pressure in this series, how does that speak to his mentality, just his knack for making those plays?  
KYLE HENDRICKS: He's the most natural baseball player I've ever seen play the game.  His instincts in game are just top notch.  And that was another play go today that was huge.  The first guy getting on, to make that play and turn that double play set such a tone for the game.  Come right back, scored two runs in the first, one in the second.  Like I said, against the best pitcher in baseball, a guy like Kershaw, those early runs are just hugely important.  It allowed me to be more aggressive, attack that lineup a little more, and once Willson and I were on the same page and clicking, it was just like any other game.   
 Q.  Did this feel any different tonight and did you feel any different tonight the atmosphere and the clincher possibility and all these things?  
KYLE HENDRICKS: I think the outside forces felt different.  You felt the buzz around the stadium.  Definitely the energy.  It was loud in there.  But at the end of the day, myself, I didn't feel much different.  At the end of the day, all I was trying to do was simplify and make good pitches.  If you make good pitches you're going to get hitters out.  So I was able to stay in that zone, kind of stay in my bubble, if you would say, but again, I think those early runs really allowed me to do that, took a lot of pressure off.   
 Q.  What's it like to when you look out and see the fans after you guys have done this.  Obviously it is your accomplishment, but knowing what this fan base has been waiting for, what's that like to see that?  
KYLE HENDRICKS: Definitely this is it for them.  I hope they enjoy this.  They have been waiting a long time for it.  Best fans in the baseball, most dedicated fans, and they deserve a lot more of these, that's for sure.  But at the end of the day, it does come down to that group of guys in the clubhouse.  And it's been our goal from day one.  We're still not there yet.  We have four more to go.  So as good as this feels, as much as we're going to enjoy it, we're going to have fun tonight, but getting up tomorrow, we know what we got to do come Tuesday.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT