US OPEN
September 3, 1999
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
USTA:  Questions for Gustavo.  
 
 
Q.  What was in your mind in the third set when he was coming back?  What was the difference?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Well, I think at the beginning of the third set, I start playing a little bit too excited because I played well the tiebreak, so I just start to overhit a little bit, miss some easy shots.  I start really bad the third set.  He got much more confidence and start to play really well.  After that was tough, but I come back strong at the beginning of the fourth, started with some break chance.  I start to feel more comfortable.  I knew I was serving well.  He had trouble to broke me.  I had my chance again, so I just wait for the opportunity.  When I had the fourth set, I was just take advantage of everyone, just very pleased, very happy.  I'm happy with my result here.  Now I try to get something new for me. 
 
Q.  Looks like you enjoyed this match tonight.  Do you like the atmosphere of the stadium?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah.  It's always nice to play in this atmosphere.  The past years I play, I haven't enjoy too much.  This year I just put in my mind, even doesn't matter the result, but just have to go out there, have fun, hit the ball hard.  That's for sure the best way to play ever.  It's going pretty well so far.  Was really, really nice to play on the Stadium Court.  It's better you can play some match so at the end I be more used to this. 
 
Q.  I have Goran Ivanisevic coming up in the next round.  What are your thoughts on him, how your skills match up?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  He always a tough opponent, you know.  He serve so big.  Even now he's not in his best rankings anymore, but he's still very dangerous opponent.  I'm sure I have to fight a lot, play even better than I've been playing.  You know, I'm looking forward just to go out there, try to return some serves and find a way to win.  Doesn't matter how, if I play well or not, but just to go there, try to enjoy this. 
 
Q.  Are you happy with the way you're playing since the beginning of the tournament?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Which part of your game do you think you have to improve to play better than now?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I think I've been playing very well, especially when I serve well like this.  I have a lot of free points.  I have many easy shots to try my winners that I like.  I can take some chance when the guy is serving.  That's a big advantage.  That's my big weapon when I'm playing well, my serve.  It's tough for me to play at night.  Probably my eyes to see the ball.  Today was special for me.  Didn't get too mad, too upset with some mistakes that I normally don't do it.  I think I managed to play well, to be focused, just to win the match.  That's enough. 
 
Q.  You had a couple of injury treatments.  Is there a problem with your wrist?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  No, it's a little bit was getting tight.  I was holding my grip, and my hand was getting tight, was not feeling loose.  I was not feeling -- my wrist very soft to try my shots.  I like to use a lot my wrist.  Was a little bit blocked.  I asked him to loose it up, put some hot cream, then I can move around more. 
 
Q.  So it isn't an injury?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  No, it's not really injury.  Just got a little bit  -- maybe I push too much, maybe bad movement.  Start to feel that. 
 
Q.  What do you mean by "a problem with my eyes"?  Is it really a problem?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I have (speaking Portuguese).  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT