US OPEN
August 30, 1997
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You looked very, very flat, especially in the first couple of sets, didn't seem to
be moving very well, you were out of sync. What did you feel like? 
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think he didn't give me too much rhythm. He was pressuring me all
the time, so I couldn't do my game. Every time I played bad one, two points, he was ready
to get the games, so it was very tough to play against him today. He was playing deep and
solid. So I couldn't play my best. But, I think it was because he was playing too good. 
 
Q. Did the fact you play in the stadium like that, in the night, affect you?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No, I think the only thing that I affect me was him today. He was
really good. I tried to come back, but I didn't have any chance. He was ready. When I got
one break in the third set, he was just ready to break back the next game. So, I think he
was just in control of the match. . He didn't let me play my game and that is why I didn't
play too good. It is not that I wasn't ready or I wasn't playing well. But, he was playing
so good that I couldn't play my best. 
 
Q. Strategically, after losing the first two sets, what did you think? Did you think
there was something you could do to change things up a little bit or was he just taking
everything you had and throwing it right back at you?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Sure, I tried to do -- was trying to thinking anything to win the
match. But, before the third set I didn't have any chance. I think in the third set he
missed a couple of balls, the first ball that he missed the whole match. So, I got one
break and well, I just went to serve and he was again on fire and give me some winners. I
couldn't do too much. I couldn't like go 4-2 or 5-3, take a real lead to try to play more
comfortable. And, well, I think he was really -- it was just his day today. He was playing
very well. 
 
Q. What happened especially in the second set, did your mind get out of the match
because it was very strange in a way?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: He broke me in the beginning and then he start to play even more
relaxed and I wasn't playing so good and then he was making winners for my first serve,
second serve and so I didn't have too many chances to do a lot -- to do some things. But I
think if I got the match a little bit tight like the third set, 1-All, 3-All, then I got
the break, 3-All, 4-All, I could have some chance because when he was one, two games up,
he just played great and he didn't give me any chance. 
 
Q. Coming into the tournament you had a pretty good summer on hard court. You have got
an adaptable game for hard courts. Are you disappointed that you only reached the third
round? I mean, I am sure you must have thought you had a chance at least to reach quarters
or semis possibly.
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No, I think this tournament was good for me. I really played good
matches. It is difficult to come out here and -- in a Grand Slam event that you never
played and come here and do well. So, it was my first time here, for sure, that I learn a
lot. I could have lost in the first round already. I win very tough match. Then I played
good second round. Today didn't play so well. But, he was playing good. So, it was a good
tournament for me. I think in this summer, all the summer I learn a lot, how to play on
hard court and that I can play good on hard court, not only on clay, so, this will help me
next year. I will come here and I will know many more things, how to hang my game on this
surface, so I think it is just the beginning here. I hope to play many more US Opens. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT