GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1997
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIKI SINGH: First question for Guga.

Q. What went different, what went wrong Guga?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think it was -- it wasn't a good day for me. I didn't play too good.
He was pretty solid and he saw that I wasn't hitting so good the ball, so he never make
any mistake. And every ball he was fighting a lot, maybe because he lost the last match.
And some days it's like this. I couldn't play my best. I think I didn't feel the ball so
well. So I just lost control of the match. He start to make my run, my ball was going too
short. A lot different for me today.

Q. Seemed like you'd hit one long and then you'd hit one short. Were you trying to may
adjustments or things just weren't working?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. I was trying to sometime -- just trying to do my game and I was
making a lot of mistakes. I tried to put more balls on the court, but my balls still not
making any thing in his game. So he was controlling. Make me move all the time. And well,
I just tried to play, but I couldn't feel so good. Not myself, but I couldn't feel my
shots so good. And just I'm thinking maybe that I need to play better. 

Q. When did you know it wasn't going to be a good day for you? Did you feel it all day
when you went out for warm up or what?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Well, just in the match. I just start to miss some balls in the
beginning. Maybe I lost some confidence there. But during the day I was -- normally I
practice, warm up pretty good. But no, it wasn't any problem. Just there on the court, I
did not play so good and he's an excellent player for -- I cannot play my best against
him.

Q. Do you feel physically tired at all or mentally tired?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No. Just -- well, if he wasn't playing so strong and he was just put
the ball wherever he want, so I really had to run them off. I didn't -- well I tried to
come back for the match every time, but he didn't give me any chance. And I just went --
it wasn't my day. I think I played pretty well. But physically, mentally I was -- just
trying to win all the time, but I couldn't.

Q. Did you get the feeling that he was more intense in this match than he was when you
played last Saturday? Did you think he had a little tougher approach?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I feel that -- I mean every match is different than the others. So you
are just playing his game. He was playing pretty good today, and last time was different
situation Montreal was on another court. I was playing in a good day. So things like this,
I'm going to play -- I hope I'm going to play him many times. And just the day that I hit
the ball well and played pretty good I can beat him. Like I did before, but I know if I
don't play too good and I don't maybe play better than I play normally, it's tough to beat
him. He's No. 2 in the world, so it's a big challenge to play him.

Q. All in all, did you feel pretty good about the way that you played this week, the
whole week?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. Looking on the week for me, it was great for me to come here.
After one final day in Montreal, I hadn't had a match on hardcourt. And this two weeks,
for me, it's just great to play two Super 9s, one final and one quarterfinal. It's good
I'm improving my rankings. Everything was great except today.

Q. Did you see the Brazilian flags in the stands and the people up there?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. They support me a lot, but I couldn't give them.

Q. How do you feel about hardcourts now? You've been on them a very limited time, but
do you find yourself liking them or?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. Feeling much better. I always think that I could play well on
this court, but I just don't play too much already, so I still have to play more match.
But I'm feeling better and better. So I'm thinking I'm the right way practice a lot and
play good games. So I hope to maybe one day play like Chang.

Q. Don't stop playing like Guga (Laughter)?

Q. (Inaudible.) You was there anything in particular that you you've taken away from
the (inaudible) that you would do differently the next time?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think just couldn't do my shots. I tried a lot of things and maybe
tried to play more balls and I had to run a little bit more. But it's tough to play like
that. I was playing different, and if I can go to the court and play the shots that I
practice and I've done in all the match before, I was doing much better. The shots that I
didn't do today, so that was different for me. But I think there wasn't one thing
important, like one serve or one ball especially in the game today that was special.

Q. (inaudible)?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yes.

Q. And then what?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: And then I go to Long Island.

Q. Uh-huh. Are you planning to go back home or vacation here?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Probably here. Don't know why yet, I don't know where yet. But the
probably going close to Long Island and stay there close to the beach. It will be pretty
fun, I hope.

Q. Taking your surf board?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Not mine, but I hope to find some there.

Q. (Inaudible.)

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah hurricanes maybe. They say they come there.

Q.Oh, yeah. Hurricanes (Laughter) have you surfed hurricanes before?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No.

Q. No?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: First time for a hurricane.

Q. (Laughter) Those people don't want a hurricane.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT