GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 1997
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOE LYNCH: Smaller crowd than last night for you. He does have doubles coming up
shortly so this will be a truncated press conference first question after his three-set
win over Todd Woodbridge. 
 
Q. Another good day at the office?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Quick? 
 
Q. Good day.
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Very good. Every time I said, if I win, it is good, it doesn't matter
if I play good bad or if the guy play bad. If I can go to the next round and still be
alive in the tournament, so it is great. And today I think it was good, I win maybe
because I have this final last week, I was confident at important points so it helped me a
lot today. 
 
Q. How hard was it for you to come off last night and everything that was surrounding
it and playing you know, a little later and then come back and play during the day today?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Last week I got a little bit used to this. Twice I play like that and
both time I played three sets and another day in the morning, so, well, I think normally
the players are used to -- we know how to handle this. We are prepared for sometimes five
sets. So, to play three sets in the evening -- maybe I was a little bit tight or not
moving 100% on the court next day, but you can still do a pretty good job. 
 
Q. Talking about last night's match, are you in anyway disappointed that it was a quick
one and you would have actually preferred --
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No, more easier. I don't prefer to play like now. I prefer yesterday's
match Czechoslovakia tape. 
 
Q. And especially is that important against him because people talk about him being
sort of a frontrunner --
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. Sure. 
 
Q. -- And he gets ahead?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, big crowd and everybody watching. Special match for me. Was good
to win like that. 
 
Q. Are you feeling good enough that -- I mean, now that you are into the tournament do
you feel that you could possibly repeat last week?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, I hope so. I mean, every match is difficult since the beginning
and right now it is even more difficult, so -- but I am -- I win two matches already here
and get used to the different balls. It is a little bit different here. And, I still in a
good shape and not feeling tired. So, I hope just to keep the same way. I think maybe I
have a chance to go to final. 
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, man. Why not? 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT