US OPEN
September 31, 1999
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







USTA: Questions, please. 

Q. What did you see when you were practicing with Sampras on Sunday? Did you notice
right away? Can you describe that situation?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think there's nothing you could see. You know, just check that he
hurts his-self. Just he felt with a bad movement or something like this. He play, I think,
one or two more points, but I don't even able to see what time he got hurt. I could see
was a little bit scared because he just stop, so that was really bad with him. That was
the main thing I see. It was tough to see, you know, if it was forehand or backhand. Just
a bit earlier, I think. If the guy falling down, then you see what it is, but you couldn't
see.

Q. You could see an expression on his face, you could tell that he thought something
was wrong?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. Like he said in his press conference, not like a normal stiff,
like you feel your back a little bit or your arm. He felt something more painful and
strange, so that's why he stop. 

Q. He was coming off an injury even two weeks ago, then he didn't play last week in
order to recover. Prior to his injury, did you find that he was playing very well? Was his
game sharp right up to that moment?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I'm sorry, I didn't understand. 

Q. You were practicing with him. 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Right.

Q. He hasn't played in almost two weeks because he had withdrawn from a tournament two
weeks ago. Prior to his injury, did you find that Pete was playing sharp and loose? Did he
seem to be feeling fine at that point going in?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. I think sometimes you get injuries, just that happen. Like you
drive your car, you have an accident. It's the way it is. You can be in bad shape or very
well-prepared, and can you have an injury anytime. It's a risk everybody is taking. For
sure, he was playing well, great physical condition. Just happen like that. It could be
with anyone. I don't think it's a mistake for him or lack of practice, I don't know, or he
was injured before. Just happen like this. Many things can happen for the players. You can
twist your ankle, you know, like feel bad your shoulder like this in two minutes. That's
things that you can handle the situation and try to wait and be able to play again.

Q. As far as you're concerned in your own play, how do you feel about your game at this
point? 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I've been playing well all this season. Here it's tough to say how
it's going to be. I never been farther than the third round here in the US Open. It's
always still a doubt for me how I'm going to play, how far I'm going to get. So far, you
know, today I enjoy a lot. I really had a lot of fun in the court. I play good tennis.
Maybe this can help me play better than the last years. Maybe last years, I didn't take
all the advantage to play a Grand Slam and motivate myself too much. This year, I try to
relax more, enjoy, try to play my best tennis. 

Q. After your victory at Roland Garros, there was speculation or talk that you're
really a clay-court specialist, yet you've had tremendous success on a variety of surfaces
this year. Coming into this tournament, playing on the hard courts, do you feel that you
have something to show to the tennis world, that you're a well-rounded player, you can
play on all surfaces?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: First of all, I have to show for myself that I try to play on all
surfaces. I know if a good time, I can play well in different courts. It's also difficult.
There's a lot of good guys that play much better here than clay. It's only with the
results and only with some - I don't know - great tournaments or titles that I have more
respects on other surface, like I did in clay. They know I play well in clay, and they
respect me a lot there because I won five tournaments, I won a Slam on clay. That's the
thing that make the press talk about you or make the players respect you more. Everything
depends about the results you have.

Q. And do you like this surface?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. I think I'm getting more and more used to it. It's always better
when you play in one place, that you know you already have done well, you already had a
great result. Here, I didn't get anything so far, but it's always -- there's always a
first time, too. Hopefully it's this year. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT