WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 12, 2003
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Guga.


Q.  There were times it seemed like he was painting the line with his forehand, and he was playing pretty well.  Can you talk about the match and what you think happened. 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I think he start to play really well after winning the first set, and then hit a lot of balls on the run with power and placement in the same time.  So I think he loosened up pretty much after winning the first set, and just keep rolling today.  So it was tough for me to come up with some answer. 

Q.  Was there anything you thought you could do, given how well he was playing? 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  No.  I think by the second set really I didn't feel any chance to came back.  Maybe I had a bigger chance in the first set, but after that, I think the match went all the way to his side.

Q.  How are you feeling these days?  Are you feeling good physically?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I feeling okay.  So now I probably playing doubles tomorrow, and see what's gonna happen. 

Q.  What do you think of your form just before the US Open?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  It's fine.  I didn't win as many match as I would like, but I'm feeling much better than last year.  My health, it's great, so that's the most important thing.  And then I see what I can come up with in the US Open.  Hopefully, I can manage to turn the things around a little bit. 

Q.  Are you surprised he played with the amount of winners he had today?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, especially the second set, he played great.  And I think was amazing how hard he played sometimes and with, you know, with good percentage of making the shots.  So was pretty much a perfect set from him in the second set. 

Q.  What are your emotions right now after losing that match?  Are you disappointed or just...? 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I think it's always tough to lose a match, so I wish I could have stay in the tournament for more days.  So this, these hours just after the match, are always very sad. 

Q.  How tough has it been as you look back to come back from the kind of injuries you've had?  It seemed to slow you down for about a year, as you look back?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, that's for sure.  I mean, it's  -- it was like maybe great years I could have, still having, and I have to put myself in a better condition during almost one year, you know, preparing myself to playing in a good level again.  So it's very sad for me, but, you know, it's something that happened, you cannot change, so it's the way it goes.  Right now, just have to looking forward, you know, seeing my improvements from the last year to this year, and then see if I can still getting a little bit better for the next years that will come. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT