TMS MONTE CARLO
April 14, 2003
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  What happened in the beginning?  Were you just slow to get into the match? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes, I think first match for me, it's always takes some times to start really playing the way I'd like.  And he was serving a lot of first serve, much more than the rest of the game.  And, no, I was a little bit nervous, I wasn't here for a long time.  I just like feeling myself back to the tournament here, to the clay season.  So I think it was natural that I didn't start really well.  Then he took advantage.  He was playing fast one, two shots and didn't give me too much of a rhythm.  As far as he broke me was the (inaudible) but then is a lot of match to go, a lot of games.  I start to, you know, pick it up a bit little better, moving better, using my shots.  I'm sure I know I finishing much better than I start. 
 
Q.  Where do you think your clay court game is at the moment? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I think I will see in this weeks probably, no, compare with the other guys.  Like the year before, I would come here and try to see and catch up my level with the best guys, see what I have to improve.  And, you know, every week probably I will have a much more idea in which point I will be playing well or not, that I will have to work more.  But I think I got here prepare and, you know, ready for the season.  So probably it would be just  -- probably first weeks maybe will give me really concrete idea in what's going on, you know, which level I'm playing.  
 
Q.  Magnus Norman, obviously you have some good memories of playing him?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes.  You know, we both passing through to the same situation, too, you know, in the surgery.  Every time we face each other, it's very close match normally, up to three sets or five sets even in the Grand Slams.  So it's always brings up more excitement, more nervous to the game, too.  And, for sure, a great opportunity, no, for both of us, step into the third round and do a great week already.  So it will be important match for me, also for him.  So it's for sure a lot of fight will be going on on the court.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT