US OPEN
August 27, 2002
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  How do you feel physically?  How does it feel to get through a match? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, for me was nice.  I feel strong.  As the match goes, I feel better on the court.  Moving better.  Well, was a great fight for me.  Maybe I push a little bit higher for my confidence to the next match.  
 
Q.  What is it about the night matches?  I know the Mirnyi match last year...  You had some real exciting matches. 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I think like today wasn't to be a night match but it just took very long for us to go to the court.  Guys like him, serving very well, it's not so easy to play.  You know, wasn't getting too many balls to get my rhythm going.  But as far as I get the lead, I think I start to play much better. 
 
Q.  What do you think about the next round?  That could be a Grand Slam final in a lot of tournaments. 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I think for me, it will be a very important match.  Maybe my motivation is gonna be high.  I hope to be very enthusiastic and inspired in this day so I can, you know, play the same level as him and try to surprise him.  For me, would be great. 
 
Q.  You and him have played some incredible matches in the past.  What is it about your styles that make for good tennis?  Do you enjoy playing him?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I think we know each other pretty well.  Is like tough for one of us just overpower the other opponent.  So, it's like, you know, a very hard match to play.  The mind counts a lot, too.  So it's gonna be probably decide by just a little bit.  
 
Q.  Given like everything that's happened with the surgery and your recovery and everything, what was your goal just coming in to this tournament? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I come to try to win a few matches.  Like now it's  -- I don't know if is good or bad.  But just maybe it's the match of the tournament for me if I win against  -- if I beat Safin right now.  It's gonna be a big step up in my comeback.  So it will be, yeah, the match of the tournament.  I feel like I'm gonna be feeling perfect for the next year.   So, as more match I can win this year, I'm gonna be, you know, more and more please about this.  
 
Q.  If you were already asked this, I apologize.  But is your hip better now than it was before the surgery? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes.  I feel like it's much better now.  I'm sure for next year it will be perfect, so I'm very happy about the way it's going.  
 
Q.  What kind of hip surgery exactly did you have? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I don't know the words, to -- (smiling).  Maybe you can ask Diana here.  She will explain in the sheet for you and give you the right words.  But it's tough to tell when it comes to medicine.  I'm bad about talking about things.  Sorry (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT