US OPEN
September 4, 2001
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Can you talk about the match against Max?  Was that a wake-up call for you?  Looks like you had no effects from that match.  You played differently tonight. 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  For me was different match.  Today I would like to talk about this match.  The other night I talk about the other match. 

Q.  I was wondering if maybe that scared you or shocked you into playing as well as you did today?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Oh, I think was under control all the time against Max.  Very relaxed, I was in the court (laughter).  It was tough for me.  Like I said, after a match like this, you really grow.  You see maybe yourself back to the tournament and more alive than ever.  That perhaps the way I'm thinking right now.

Q.  What was your success tonight?  18 aces, no double-faults? 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I served pretty well.  I think I playing the same level all the time.  I felt a little bit tired of the last match.  Wasn't easy for me playing, you know, back-to-back points 100%.  So, I manage to play maybe 87%.  Then when I need it, try to go a little bit better.  I think he played a good third set.  I just managed to work myself well, get to this stage when nerves can count, and I was a little bit more lucky at the end.

Q.  Are you starting to believe you can win this title now?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Well, I think even when I got here, it's always going to be hopes for me, especially these moments when I have three Slams, playing better.  I still alive.  I saw myself in much worst situation than I am right now.  I'm sure it is a chance.  Just have to work out and find a way.

Q.  Are you as comfortable on this surface as you are on the clay?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Well, I think I'm with great feelings, playing well.  Yeah, I could say I'm maybe playing the same level as the other guys.  From now on, I think it's maybe a little bit new for me.  I never pass to the semifinals.  So, it can be a different challenge.  But I'm sure I'm prepared for this. 

Q.  Is it important for you to win here to prove that you are not only clay courter?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  No.  For me, no.  For me, the main thing in the game, it's be happy and play for myself, you know, be satisfied with the results myself first of all.  Like I said before, you know, what's writing or what's saying in the news, it's just headlines.  As far as I go to the court on any surface, the players respect me, that's the main thing.  That's what I'm doing right now. 

Q.  Will you be watching the Brazilian soccer match tomorrow?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes, I will.  I don't know where, but I will watch.

Q.  Seems like your matches take on that kind of quality.  Are you enjoying your crowd support?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, here especially.  A lot of noise.  People come.  I think it's Brazilian week or something, a festival this weekend.  Probably a lot of Brazilian comes to New York.  I'm here.  They don't have too much of this in their life, you know, tennis player playing in the US Open, on this stage.  I'm sure everybody is satisfied and having a great time.

Q.  Are you aware back home that kids are apparently really taking to tennis where they used to go for soccer because of yourself?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes, I saw this change.  Makes me very proud.  I mean, it's nice to see at least many kids wanted to not have the same hair as me, but playing tennis. 

Q.  In the match against Max, you got very upset.  Even today again, are you getting easily upset on the court now?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Sometimes I'm get upset, I'm get frustrated, happy.  I'm emotional guy, so you can see all different reactions from myself on the court, that's for sure. 

Q.  Were those flying bugs bothering you at all?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  It was tough.  It was difficult for both of us - not only for me.  I don't know, maybe people didn't take shower (smiling).  I don't know other courts.  If it was in the other courts, too, that's no problem. 

Q.  What would you tell the kids or have you told the kids in Brazil what's great about playing tennis?  Why would you recommend it?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I don't really recommend that.  I just try to get at least to the sports.  I didn't start playing only tennis.  I start playing, you know, all around different sports here and there.  That's just the easiest way I see to get yourself to the society, then friends, relationship, you know, respect other guys, try to grow as a person, too.  So, I recommend first the sports and see if it goes for tennis it's even better.

Q.  Do you feel more alive now after this match?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes, I feel happy.  It's nice to be again in the quarterfinal here.  I would fight a lot to get to the semis now.  I've never been.  It's going to be very excited for me, especially playing Yevgeny.  Other time we have great challenge.  I really looking forward for this next one.

Q.  In America you are not really considered as the best player in the world right now.  Does it bother you?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  No, I think it's natural.  They must like better Agassi, Sampras or Roddick, you know, than me.  I think it's pretty much natural, as patriot as Americans are, too.  Back in Brazil, even when I wasn't No.  1, they would prefer much more me than the other.  That's the way the game is.  That's the different part to come here and maybe play against the crowd, be able to win.  That's a great thing. 

Q.  But they put Roddick three times on the center court at night, you played twice on Armstrong.  Is that fair to you?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I don't really mind.  I'm not the guy, you know, born to be a superstar.  I don't want to be in the media all the time.  Maybe it's because of that, too.  I like to be successful as a tennis player, work my game, live my personal life quiet, too.  I'm having all of this.  That's why maybe I have success on the court and happiness outside. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT