TMS - HAMBURG
May 15, 2001
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

ATP: Questions, please.


Q.  You probably are rather tired anyway from running, but he didn't play well?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  He played very good.  I had my chances but didn't get it.  I think he played great when he needed.

Q.  How was the groin today?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  No, it was okay.  Feeling good, yes.  No problems.

Q.  Tired or what was that?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  No, running around was just, you know, he was playing same level.  Maybe mentally I was a little bit tired, but like this, tough match, today I let it go.  A couple of shots today I could have done.

Q.  You think you had a little problem with his serve and volley and it is not your kind of game?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes.  That is right.

Q.  Too fast for you?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes.

Q.  Have you ever seen him play like that before on clay?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I think everybody can play well, all this, basically.  He played good.  He was motivated to play against me and it is like this, I mean, every player here has a chance to beat other players, I think.

Q.  At the moment everybody wants to beat you; don't they?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I think me, Ferrero, we are playing good and then they got a little extra motivation, but every week is like this, we fight for what we want to play well and win, but sometimes both sides, I think, like that, and it makes things harder.

Q.  Did you feel a little bit tired from your week in Rome?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Of course.  If I was here four days before the tournament, I could play, prepare myself better.  But no, it was impossible.  For me it was good to play final in Rome and then came here, see to try to play well too.  But maybe if I win this round, I could play better the next place.

Q.  What is the feeling for the upcoming French Open?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Right now not so good. 

Q.  With hindsight, do you think this might in fact be a little bit of help, give you a bit of a break before Roland Garros?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, you cannot tell these things.  I think I am playing well.  This is not going to change for the next weeks and then I try to see, you know, the better way to prepare myself now   - this is 14 days to start the French.  I don't know which way would be better, but now I only have this way so that is what I have to think about.

Q.  But you have had plenty of match practice this year going into Paris?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, like I said, my confidence, my game, it's working fine, so I just need to see what is better to me to do to get there in my best shape.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT