TMS - LISBON
November 27, 2000
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Gustavo.  
 

Q.  You have a chance to be No.  1 at the end of the year.  Are you going to do it? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  You know, Marat just got a little bit of advantage this end of year.  But it's still some chance.  It's kind of a little bit more (inaudible) for his competition.  We see maybe three or four players who can be No.  1.  I'm just (inaudible).  
 

Q.  What are your first impressions of Lisbon?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, it was nice, you know, but the city I knew before.  I've been here a couple of times.  First time in this stadium, the way they build the court was great.  Sometimes it's easier for me, the language, the food, makes me feel a little more comfortable. 
 

Q.  Are you expecting to have good support here from the fans?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah.  I feel that I will have some more crowd than normally, I think.  A lot of times I came here before, and many people know about my career since the beginning.  Besides the Brazilian, the Portuguese guys, they have much to do with Brazil, so they going to go with me.  
 

Q.  What does it mean to you to be (inaudible)?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  The thing that you try to do every year.  Every year from now on I try to be back here again.  Last year was my first time.  I was a little bit nervous.  The first match was a new experience.  Only the best, like you said.  It's maybe the most important tournament the whole year.  I'm so happy to be for two times in a row in this position, play against the best guys.  Doesn't really matter if I win more than lose, but just the way I play and the fact I enjoy.  
 

Q.  How important was the tournament in Paris for you?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  It was the first time on this surface.  I beat different kind of players.  Also, the ball, play from baseline fast and slow.  It was a really good tournament, build my confidence a lot, change the way I face the match (inaudible).  
 

Q.  Today you had some treatments for an injury.  Is it serious? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I really try to take care of my body.  Such a high level, every piece of the body, every week, got to check up and see everything is fine.  
 

Q.  The season is almost over.  It's going to be time when you have some holidays.  What are you going to do? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I think everybody waiting for this this year.  I think it's the longest one we play.  I'm hoping to enjoy a lot, surfing, being with my family, don't travel.  That's part of my holiday, I don't want to go anyplace, I just want to stay quiet and calm, try to forget the racquet and practicing.  This routine really tough for us. 
 

Q.  You were the No.  1 in the world during this year in the Champions Race.  What is your opinion of the new system?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I think the race was pretty excited, especially at the end of the year.  We saw some changes, many chance for being No.  1, like you saw so far like last week.  Was a great year for this.  I really feel it's more important for the players, for us, to be the No.  1 in the entry list also.  
 

Q.  Who has the best serve, best forehand?  Who has the best serve?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I would say Sampras. 
 

Q.  Why? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  (Inaudible). 
 

Q.  And backhand?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Backhand?  Maybe Safin, Agassi. 
 

Q.  What about Gustavo Kuerten? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  (Laughter).  
 

Q.  Any year you win a Grand Slam is a special year.  How much more special would it be if you could end the year as No.  1?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  A little bit more maybe (laughter).  You know, if I don't finish, it's not going to be a bad year.  Of course, anything I can get more, it's important for me.  As far as you get something, try to go farther.  But it's not bad if you're not, everything was bad.  It's a great year for me.  Whatever come else, of course, is going to be very welcome.  
 

Q.  If you look at Alex a couple of years ago came along and won indoors.  Do you feel you have a realistic chance here?  Indoors is not your favorite surface to play. 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I feel I got here maybe at my best moment, you know, playing my best tennis, just play a great tournament a few weeks ago in indoor.  So I could not expect anything better than be here on this moment.  So I don't know how the other guys I going to face.  But I really -- confidence to play well and see if I'm going to win or not, the tournament.  It depends of much more things than this.  I'm sure I can play against other guys with the same chance to win or lose. 
 

Q.  How much do you think you've improved from this time last year? 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Well, a lot.  I've been playing much more easy, you know.  I learn to play better and better.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  It's a place I really enjoy.  I like the people.  I like the culture.  I'm honored to be Brazilian.  It's an honor for me to have Brazilians be here and follow me around.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT