TMS - CINCINNATI
August 11, 2000
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Guga? 
 

Q.  Can you just describe your match for us, please. 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  It was a long one.  It was tough.  Since the beginning he play I expect more aggressive serve-and-volley.  I was trying to move him around, too, but not so easy.  So I think we got pretty open match and he had chance to win first...(Inaudible). 
 

Q.  When you were down 5-2, what were you thinking about?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, it's tough.  But still one break only, no? So I was hanging around there and not really thinking that I could win, but at least get the chance to see how the guy's gonna work.   So...(Inaudible) I come back for juice and I break after.  So after I got the break, everything was tight again.  And the match could be mine or it can be him.  
 

Q.  What happened in the end?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes, I don't know.  I serve him.  When I change the grip, my skin got tight in the grip...(Inaudible). 
 

Q.  ...(Inaudible)?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  They tried, yes.  But I never had any problems.  I'm not used to playing like that so I take it off. 
 

Q.  How long did you take it off?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I lost three games I think. 
 (Laughter.) 
 

Q.  Is your ankle okay from the fall?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes, I fall.  I didn't see.  I think it was pretty much because...(Inaudible) I extend I think. 
 

Q.  It feels okay now?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, it is.  
 

Q.  Looks like you'll probably be playing Tim.  How do you feel about that?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Don't really matter for me.  It's gonna be -- from now on it's just more mentally I will have to be prepared.  Everybody's playing well, winning some match.  So I got to be strong tomorrow.  As I did today, fight, and when I have my chance, I have to do it.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about playing, if you play Tim, how that matches up with you?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Like I said, it's, for me, who ever I play, I just got to know anybody who playing in semifinal is not only playing the game against the guy, but you be prepared to play semifinal in a good atmosphere on Saturday...(Inaudible).  So it's a lot of things.  It doesn't really matter who you play against. 
 

Q.  Did you have a different strategy or a different approach for the last tiebreaker after having lost the first one?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes, I had not won lot of tiebreaks.  I lost one in Canada...(Inaudible) And one more in the doubles here, then one again here in this match.  So it was little bit frustrated.  And it's tough sometimes to make the things working the other way around.  The mind's kind of blocked.  But I think I just served so big, maybe three or four points I go out only serving.  That was really the key for me for the win.  
 

Q.  Do you have in your head when he goes up 4-2 in the third that he's been in similar position and gives it back?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  No, I think just tough break and it's tough to stay there.  I had to think in my head that I was out of my game playing for a while, and I thought I would have  -- I had the last for sure.  And just things start to change, and you know it's just one point to the other sometimes.  
 

Q.  Do you think that's why you had trouble in tiebreakers, because of your aggressive style and you sort of go for it and then you're not completely worried?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I think it's kind of situation.  I have not winning so many matches I did before like two, three months ago...(Inaudible)  And that's maybe what's also, because there's been many tiebreaks before now.  Many match go to deciding tiebreak.  So it's a big change.  If you win like two or three in a row, it's like you feel so comfortable that you're gonna win again.  If you lose like three or four like I did, it's tough to make the things going the other way around.  
 

Q.  So it's sticking in your head?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah.  But now I think more relieved.  It was important match and it was a good time to do it.  
 

Q.  How hard is it after you lose the first-set tiebreaker like that to come back and get right back into the second set?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Well, was tough for me because I so much have chance to break at 5-0.  And just like this, I played bad two points in the beginning of tiebreak and he was 5-Love already.  So it's so frustrating.  But you start to playing a little bit better the second set, the third...(Inaudible)  And I was just turning around.  So that was important.  
 

Q.  There's been a lot of talk about moving this tournament.  I mean maybe not moving it out of the city, but moving it within the city.  What do you think of the facilities here? What would you say needs to be better?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Well, I think it's a great event.  It's a great tradition, too.  It's tough to change  -- make change I think.   Sometimes, you know, we don't have too much things to do during the night or going out or going for many restaurants as you find in New York, say.  But we also don't have too much time for this.  So I think it's  -- it's traditional event.  So anything you want to change, you have to think a lot about it.  
 

Q.  One of the things they're talking about is moving it kind of closer to the airport down here so it would be closer to the city.  Do you think the players would prefer to be where there's restaurants that are open late, things like that?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Well, I think maybe it's a little bit nice.  You can have more life action, see more people around than all this.  Like I said, sometimes, like today, it's gonna be the first day that I will be able to have dinner.  All the days I got to the hotel 9:30, 10 o'clock.  So even if I was in the city, I have no chance to go anywhere.  
 

Q.  I guess some of the players like the golf course and the amusement park and stuff like that?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN: ...(Inaudible). 
 

Q.  I'll write that down.  They actually have a little surfing thing over at King's Island.  It's like a fake wave, you know.  Would you like that?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I never see one.  I try.  
 

Q.  I believe you said earlier this week that you didn't feel like you were the No. 1 player in the world.  But do you feel that you're playing like a No. 1 player?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, I think as you can see as the Race go, I think I so far the one I think playing better tennis this year.  But that doesn't mean that I'm the best tennis player in the world, you know.  We have so much tournament and a lot of situations.  You are good one week, you are bad the others.  So I still a lot far from let's say what Sampras, you know, did...(Inaudible).  So at the moment I am playing well, playing every little bit better.  But I think I still have to build my career and...(Inaudible).  And then I can see myself with more titles and more things in my back to really see myself as the best in the world. 
 

Q.  Is that a goal of yours?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, for me everything I get, like today, was so nice for me.  I never played semifinals here.  So as far as I can get, things that I never did, it's always good for me.  I always gonna try to do it a little bit more than I have done.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT