WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2000
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Good even, Ladies and Gentlemen. Gustavo Kuerten.  
 
Q. What went wrong?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think he played well and I wasn't too strong. The first set I played
good, but then I felt a little bit tired. I think he really played better than me, so he
deserved to win. He was really solid today. 
 
Q. What was the story on the injury time-out?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Just sore a little bit. I have a bad cold for a few days. Really got
me bad yesterday. Today I think as match was going, I feel maybe because I lost first set,
too; I didn't feel enough power to see myself with chance. I tried to get some help there,
but wasn't too helpful. 
 
Q. When did you catch cold?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Almost before it started already coming from Brazil, was kind of, you
know, there, but didn't went away. I think after I played two days ago, I feel a little
bit worst with fever, you know, here too (indicating throat). It can happen. That's why
it's tough to see whether you can do well or not in these big tournament because something
like this can happen, can maybe take your chance a little bit less.  
 
Q. Did you have fever this morning?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I don't know. I have to check now. I've been seeing the doctor few
days. I didn't had too much, almost normal, 37, 38. But today I don't know. Probably now
because I finish the match, I have a lot of pain in the body. I think now I can have a few
days to recover.  
 
Q. Did you think about retiring?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No. I was not feeling really, really bad, just weak. I could run,
could play, but not full of energy. That's enough to be out of tournament like this.  
 
Q. Are you going back to Brazil or Gstaad?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No, I have Davis Cup in Australia. Probably maybe go back today, and
then I go to Australia on, I don't know, Thursday, Wednesday.  
 
Q. Many people have complained about the injuries. Are you playing too much tennis, too
many matches, especially because of the Champions Race?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, but not only because of that. I think everybody's playing too
much. We have a Grand Slam event in the first month of the year, then The Masters is
almost in December. You have to play almost 12 months. I think that no sport the players
play like this. Especially when you are only one, you have to run by yourself and do
everything by yourself. I think that's kind of too much. We can see the players, they
cannot play well during all the time. We see a lot of injuries, the guys playing well here
or there, maybe one month off, two months off. I lucky I don't get too much injuries. Just
can be, you know, enough healthy to play most of the tournament.  
 
Q. Last year it was a little bit surprise for you to come to the quarters. This year
did you take the same pleasure playing on grass?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, it was funny. For me, I don't have -- not that important for me
the playing here, otherwise I be practising or playing other tournaments before and all
this. So for me it's always more funny, more relax. But wasn't too good. Like I said, I
wasn't in my best feeling this week. Sometimes was tough. But, no, I think I did good
enough just playing some good match. I went as far as I could go. Today he really was, I
think, maybe too strong for me in this day. 
 
Q. Is it a special feeling to play a tournament once in a your -- without any pressure
at all?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No, I like to be pressure. I like to play important tournaments.
Otherwise be no fun for me. Pressure is one good thing that makes you more excited. Even
coming here, I feel myself with chance to win, so it's a little bit of pressure that I
like to put on the game.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT