WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2000
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, Ladies and Gentlemen.  Gustavo Kuerten.  
 
 
Q. Have you ever heard about Alexander Popp?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes. 
 
Q. What do you know about him?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I know quite a lot.  I've been seeing him in the French Open, here today I could watch a little bit.  He's a good player.  Serve pretty good.  He's young, so it's going to be a good player.  
 
Q. How many hours does your hair to make takes?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Three, four hours.  It depends.  You want to do it, too (laughter)?  For you, three years:  first to let it grow, then to do it. 
 
Q. You must do it every month or every week?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  No, I did almost two weeks ago.  I think it's going to keep for a while.  But if you want to do it right, maybe you have to do it every month to be very good. 
 
Q. You're going to keep it?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  So far, yeah.  Been enjoy, so try to keep it.  
 
Q. So it took longer than the match today?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes.  
 
Q. You're in the third round now.  Prior to Wimbledon, you didn't actually play in any grass court warm-up tournaments.  What were your expectations coming into the tournament?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Well, I just did the same way as I did last year.  Sometimes you come for the other tournaments, and you get so much rain and all this that it's frustrating, boring sometimes.  So for me I had to rest after a lot of matches I had through the last month.  I think I did the right thing and just came here with expectation because I really play well last year.  I knew I could play well again.  But I think I'm doing hopefully good to get the same rhythm, same level next match. 
 
Q. How are you feeling the court?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  It's good.  So far we have no rain, so it's a little bit better for me, I could say, because it could stay a little bit slower, not slippery at all.  Hopefully it can stay like that.  I think for me it's helpful a bit. 
 
Q. Do you play so well because you won French Open and you're so confident now?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes, I think it's good moment for my game.  I'm with a lot of confidence.  For sure I can use this in the big points or when I have a tough match.  I have to enjoy and take advantage of that, for sure. 
 
Q. What about winning Wimbledon?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I think the other guys have more chances than me.  But I'm still alive, so there's still some chance. 
 
Q. You're serving almost like Sampras. 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yeah, been playing well.  Hopefully I can be more consistent.  I never been semifinals even.  It's different.  I think there's more players who has more experience than me.  
 
Q. There's always a first time. 
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  Yes.  
 
Q. What is your assessment of your performance today?  Did you like your game?  Was it easier than the previous match?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  I think since the beginning, I start playing well.  I think I controlling the match to the end.  Was the way I would like to play today, three sets, didn't spend too much energy.  That's can happen in big tournament like this. 
 
Q. You've only been placed on the outside courts.  Do you like not being in the spotlight?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  For me is the same.  I think it's not going to make me win match if I play in one court or other.  I have to do just my part and play well.  So far I've been playing outside and winning.  If I have to win, I can keep playing outside. 
 
Q. When you first came to Wimbledon, you spoke English very, very badly.  Do you take lessons to speak well now or it came gradually?
 
GUSTAVO KUERTEN:  How is your Portuguese?  It's good (laughter)?  If you ask me in Portuguese, I can talk.  But I try to learn English.  My press agent is teacher, English teacher, too.  She teach me very good.  When I made a mistake, you can talk to her (laughter).  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT