TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 14, 2000
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Guga, what went wrong today for you? 
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Well, I think I didn't start pretty well the match, so I was almost
all the time under the courts. Sometimes it's tough to play like this. And I felt like,
you know, maybe not my really best day, but it's -- I was able to hang there in the match
and I had a couple of chances, I think, in the third set to maybe get the things going
better. But then after the seventh or eighth game in the third set, I start to feel a
little bit more tired and weakness with my injury, but I lost some important game. Then
when I call the trainer, things go better but was little bit too late. So I think it was
close; we both played well. I don't think I played an excellent match, but I played a good
level. So maybe couple of points, too, was pretty close. I think just let it escape for
somehow and don't know really why. 
 
Q. You weren't feeling anything in your back before the third set?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No, no. Was okay. Just -- it's not that I was feeling pain, just not
too much power anymore to rotate and to generate more affecting my ground strokes. So that
was maybe crucial for me. He start to control almost all the rallies, and I think during
the week I had tough, tough games. Probably in the Quarters and Semis I played two guys
that I had to run a little bit more. So I still feeling that I'm just coming out from my
injury and I think it was already greater to be in the final, just maybe still a little
bit to improve and 
 that's -- I'm going to have time to work on for the French Open. That's maybe my most
important tournament. 
 
Q. What makes him so difficult to play? He's very powerful, his serve is very
difficult.
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. He has not really weakness in his game. He's pretty solid. He's
in his best confidence, too, so it's, I think, a solid player in his best form. It's
always tough to play against someone like this. You have to be in your best form, too, and
maybe I wasn't today, so that's one thing that could cost me the match. 
 
Q. The bad start of the match for you, what went wrong? Did you lose concentration?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No, I think I just start bad. I don't know, maybe I really wasn't, you
know, very concentrated and start missing couple of balls. I think every time I try to go
for my shots, I was missing for a little bit or not getting the right position. So this
made me play little bit too safe and made me run more and spend more energy then. So I was
seeing, trying to hold it own, see if I still had some chance. But I was always, always
down and I didn't really feel like, you know, like other matches that I had the feeling, I
think now it's going bad and I start to play better. So it's maybe Finals situation, you
know, tough match. I think I could work better on this, could be playing better. But I
didn't, so... It's enough. 
 
Q. In spite of your back, you're going to Hamburg?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No, no, probably I'm playing. You know, it's completely different
feeling now. Before I was feeling a lot of pain and now I just feel tired and the more as
I play. But tomorrow I have a day off so I can practice little bit, work more specific for
my back and be back strong on Tuesday, hope to be like this. 
 
Q. On the court, Magnus said he was in support of Lazio here. Are you interested in
Italian football at all?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, I like soccer. My best team that I like here is Inter in Milan
and Rome, too. So I was not very interested today. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT