TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 12, 2000
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. It seemed very close today. It was straight sets, but it seemed like there was a
very small margin between you. Would you say that was true?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, really was. I think the match was as I expected. He's a good
player, we have a similar game. So I was sure that it was going to be decided by one or
two points. Maybe a lucky break in the first set, set point. And then I play really well
the last two points of the match, so it's getting close to the end and even playing that
well sometimes you need a little work to pass through.

Q. (Inaudible) What do you think about this moment for you in the millennium?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: What's my --

Q. What do you think about your position for tennis in the world for the millennium?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Well, I think I got to be only a small part of the next millennium,
only a few years. So I hope to start the millennium well and give it a chance for me to
continue like this.

Q. Tonight did you make more mistakes than you expected to even though you hadn't
played last night?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Well, not really. I think I did more mistakes than my other match, but
I also played against a player that really get always an extra ball to give you a chance
to make the mistakes. So I played the way I like it. I try my shots. Sometimes it works
well; sometimes it doesn't work too good. But I really played well when I needed to, so
that was, I think, the key of the match tonight.

Q. You've been saying this week that you've been playing for pleasure and you're just
happy to be back on the court again. But now that you're into the Semis, has that changed?
Have the stakes gotten higher?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, for sure. I mean the expectation just change a lot. I just came
here, like you said, to prove myself, how I was, check my body and all this. Now I'm very
close to the final and it really changes the way you think about how you approach the next
match. But it's also, you know, I get myself very enthusiastic to play a match like this.
So I'm just happy to play the weekend here in a tournament that I really like to play.

Q. Even though Costa is a very good claycourt player, tonight did you feel there was no
way you could see yourself losing?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Well, I think it's a match that you can get scared sometimes and you
really can have some doubts. But I was feeling the ball well, I was playing good, and
really seeing myself with a good chance to win all the time. So I think that's the way I
should play all matches, and that's the way I should approach my next match tomorrow.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT