TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 15, 2000
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIKI SINGH: Questions for Guga. 

Q. He's a tough opponent, tough match. Can you tell us what makes the difference in the
tiebreaker, from your point of view right now, two tiebreaks?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think I had a good start, and very bad calls when I was serving 4-3.
I lost my serve. I did two ace. I think it's very sad when happen this. First set went to
the tiebreak, I had more chance, but couldn't get it. Was close match. We both had chance.
Just he was more stronger I think physically. I think I wasn't too strong. But I was
playing okay, could give him a tough battle. When I needed, I didn't play that much well.
That cost me the match. 

Q. You were having treatment to your legs. I noticed in your first round match you also
had a trainer looking at your legs. Could you explain what the problem was?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I just came from a lot of match, arrive here one day only before I
start. I haven't play on hard court for long while, so I feel this change. I think was
normal. I was a little bit tired, too, so I needed this cream to put my legs more warm and
give me more speed. If I was just by myself, I was like bad, you know, not feeling too
good with too much energy. 

Q. Did you think Haas was going to be so strong after he hasn't played for like a
month?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I don't think too much about my opponents, if they going to play well
or not. I think about my game. I knew what was my situation, the way I could play. I think
I should have won the first set to have more chance. I knew it's going to be tough after
that. I was much more tired than him. I think he took good advantage of that. He just has
good chance now. I think he get more rhythm. That was the thing that he most need. After
two match, I think he's going to be in his best shape to play against anyone. 

Q. Are you going to work out to get closer to the baseline instead of standing back?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I had to do that. I had to take more time to try to get the balls. I
wasn't to close the angles and do some things that I like to do, so I had to stay with
what I had in this game, try to win with that. I think I managed to put myself in a good
position, but I didn't made the things to win. I think I didn't have too much things to do
more than this. I didn't feel like do run, run all the time, attack. I really thought that
I didn't enough power to play all match. 

Q. Your backhand wasn't working today. 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: That's what I said. I play with the power I had. Couldn't do more than
this. Was tough to me to play. I try to win anyway. I have to play in this tournament.
There's no choice. I try to do the best I can. I think I did all right. I didn't do too
bad the condition I was. 

Q. You have almost a week now before the Ericsson starts in Miami. Do you plan to go
straight to Miami or will you take some time off?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I don't know really what to do. Maybe stay around here for a while,
Los Angeles maybe. I'm not sure. At least I'm going to have a few days to recover and
practice on hard. I think I can be more better prepared to the next week. 

Q. Do you like Los Angeles?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Never been. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT