US OPEN
September 9, 1999
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







USTA: Questions for Gustavo. 

Q. What happened to your leg in the third set? 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Fourth, no? 

Q. Fourth set, sorry. 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I start to get really fatigued. Was running a lot, was starting to get
tight. I didn't know what was the rule to call the trainer, so I ask. He came in, but he
could not stop only because of that. I would have to be really, really bad to stop the
game. I just stopped for this and asked. After changeover, he tried to loose it up a
little bit.

Q. Have you ever played such an exciting tiebreaker as the third-set tiebreaker? 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, I think all of them got to 6-All, couple set points for both. It
was tough. I think the atmosphere was great. We was hitting unbelievable shots. Not that
someone was missing easy shots, just playing great tennis. That's the good side. I'm just
a little frustrated because I really played well. I should have deserve to win maybe. I
had the same chance as him. That's a little bit frustration. It's like this. If we don't
have these moments, we cannot celebrate wins, too. Next time, hope to be a little more
lucky.

Q. At 9-All, you're celebrating the point of Pioline. 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. It was a great point. I think maybe the best point from all
match. He just leave it to 9-All. I couldn't believe. It was great. I play well that
point. He play better than me. So I congratulate him. It was amazing shot. That's what
people get crazy. Crowd love it. That's good for tennis. 

Q. I think you had six set points total. I could be off one. Do you feel like you had
real chances on some of them, or do you think he just came up with good shots when he had
to? 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No. Sometimes I had a few chance, sometimes not too much. If you have
set points, the chance, doesn't matter what happens. If he hit an ace, was because he
played well that point. He could, I don't know, miss first serve, too. That's already
happen. It's bad to think about, you know, the situation again. Just I didn't got the
chance, and that's it. That's why I lost. 

Q. Some of the shots he was hitting, the forehand passing shot, the volley at the end
of the match, did you ever have a feeling out there with the way he was playing, almost
fate was on his side, pulling out these miraculous shots?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah. He was in a good mood. I was, too. I was playing well. I had
some great shots during the whole match. I don't know, maybe some tough calls, too. I had
a passing shot second set to win the set. It was pretty close. For me, it was good; for
the line umpire, it wasn't. Some things like this maybe change the set. Maybe if it was
Agassi with the pressure of the crowd, it was good (laughter). Maybe for us in Brazil, for
sure it was good. That's maybe the difference. If it was in Brazil, this tournament, maybe
I have a chance to win more than him.

Q. Is this a difficult loss for you to take?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Always tough to get a loss in a Grand Slam especially. We also ready
to lose because we know nobody unbeatable, especially me. I'm still growing, improving my
game. I know that a lot of good players that can beat me. You know, for sure I'm going to
think about it for few days, but try to forget. I have more tournaments to play, so I
going to lose again. Will come another loss in my mind to change. Life is like this.

Q. At the French Open, you were like that, and here you were a bit more crazy,
different attitude (indicating). Was there a reason for that?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Maybe here I was much more surprised or underdog than the French Open,
so I could take more time for myself. Nobody took too much attention on me at the
beginning of the tournament. I could enjoy other things, too, in the city. I was pretty
relaxed, maybe the way I've arrive here, practicing, you know. This week has been great.
New York, it's nice, too. You have a lot of things to do. You can stay here, every day
find something different to make you forget a little bit about tennis. It was good weeks.
I got a few points, too. Maybe move a little bit in the ranking. That was good for me. 

Q. How did you feel about your chances coming into the match? Did you maybe
underestimate him?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Today? 

Q. Yes. 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think we both -- I think the match was different from the beginning
from 4-3 to me, then that tough game that I lost my serve. I had a game point. A big ace.
Maybe was good, I don't know. It was very close. After he break me in that game, was
4-All. After this, was really close. The match could be going for any side. I had the
control of the match in the beginning. I let escape. Then I was fighting, hanging on, try
to do my job, try to get all the chance, if I had it, I had it, but I didn't got it. That
was critical for the result. 

Q. You must be happy with the run you had at the US Open. Were you surprised that you
were able to stay in New York so long, or did you have an expectation how you might do?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, I was really surprised. I mean, I never got so far here. I never
spend all these days in New York. Was different. Was new experience. That's what I looking
for in my career. Be winning match, stay in the tournament as long as I can. That was
really what really happened here. I didn't have any expectation. I got really far. I saw I
could even get a little bit more. Just, I don't know, couldn't be today. Tomorrow is my
birthday, I have more lucky.

Q. What was the most fun experience, most special experience you had in the city?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: First, it's a lot of people. It fun to see everybody walking in the
street all the time. A lot of traffic, too. Then we saw couple of Broadway shows, was
good. We had dinner in great place, too. I mean, it's a nice city. Since Monday to Sunday,
you can do whatever you want. In my city, only from Friday and Saturday you can go in
someplace. During the week, everything is closed. So here, it's much different. It's nice.
It's like rushing all the time. It's good.

Q. You're going to be 23 tomorrow?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: 32 (laughter). 

Q. Is 23 old?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: 23, yeah.

Q. Is old?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: If is old? 

Q. Yes. 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Depends who you compare with. Sometimes I feel old; sometimes not too
much. It depends every day. Today I can enjoy a little bit of my 22 still. I think I had
more chance today because I was younger. I'm sure I'm wrong now, because more experience
tomorrow, would be different.

Q. Is it one of the best matches you played so far?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I've been playing very good this whole year. It was not a great match
for me. It was a tough one because I lost, but was really feeling the ball well, moving
well. I've been doing the things that I do, just to - I don't know - just to miss because
of lack of playing, you know, because I play bad, but just because it wasn't my day maybe.
Portuguese (laughter)? 

Q. Can Pioline beat Kafelnikov or Agassi if he plays the way he did today?

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I don't know. I don't like to talk about this. I like to see the
results and then you can talk. I think everybody now has a chance. If you go there and
don't play really well, you going to lose. I prefer to wait the result, then I can talk. I
always think like that. I think it's too much. Nostradamus, you know Nostradamus?

Q. Yes. Never met him, but I've heard of him. 

GUSTAVO KUERTEN: It's wait and see. If I said someone is going to win or not, if I'm
wrong, everybody's going to forget. If I right, someday they going to say, "Oh, you
said this guy is going to win, congratulations." Nothing going to change, so. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT