TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 30, 2018
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice to be back in Turkey?  A place that's been kind to you over the last two years, a win two years ago and fifth place last year?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, it's been very good.  Probably wish that I could have played more during the year.   
Yeah, I like the golf course.  I think it suits my eye from the tee.  Been driving the ball well here in the past, and obviously I have a lot of good memories.  Hopefully I can bring that in year, also.   
 Q.  Have you had a look at the course setup?  Does it differ from previous years at all?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I played four holes today.  The greens look very, very good, better than the last three years I think.  That's always nice.  Otherwise it's very, very similar.   
 Q.  In terms of the form, obviously great Ryder Cup, of course the come down from that, but you had a great week last week in Shanghai, as well?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I've been sort of struggling with my game the last few weeks.  Especially Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, last week was just struggling and then slowly got better and better during the tournament and started hit something really nice shots and felt pretty comfortable on Sunday, even though I didn't score that well.  But I felt I was swinging a lot better and yeah, I felt more comfortable.  Hopefully I can sort of build on that last week at the last end of the year and especially this week.   
 Q.  Three big weeks coming up, three more Rolex Series Events.  You've experienced a win in the Rolex Series in Italy.  How special is that to get a Rolex Series win under your belt?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, it's another step for me.  Obviously Rolex is for us just under the majors.  It's huge tournaments and to win in Italy for me, struggling a little bit before, winning that tournament sort of started my season, really, this year.  Played really well after that and that got me into The Ryder Cup, which is great.  You about it's time now to try and finish this year off strong.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT