BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2018
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We're all at a loss for words.  Can you explain what happened today on the course?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I felt like especially the first two days, I played really great.  Especially the second day.  Was striking the ball fantastic and gave myself so many chances.  You know, I had a bad day yesterday.  I had a bad hole there at the start and obviously that was very disappointing because I felt like I was playing so good.
So you know, I was just trying to just go out there and build on my game, and see if I can shoot a good score and get ready for next week.  But obviously as the round progressed, I was keep on thinking birdies and trying to make the round better.  Yeah, finishing with four birdies was pretty nice.
Q. Almost like watching Ryder Cup scoring.  Did yourself and Justin pull each other along?  There must have been some kind of dynamic for the both of you together, 19-under today?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, Justin played great today.  He really did.  He was just playing nicely tee-to-green and holed some good putts.  I think both of us had a lot of fun today.  We were just trying to build and keep trying to make birdies.  We didn't try to protect the score.  We were aggressive because we obviously started the day so far behind.  So it was just -- yeah, it was a really fun day for both of us.
Q. Tell us about what he did to you on 18.  It's almost like he was waving a white flag in surrender?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I think we had a little battle but a nice battle between us.  I think both of us wanted to shoot a good score and best for both of us.  We were having fun and yeah, it was a lot of fun seeing putts holing in from a lot of places and good shots.
Q. What are your expectations?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I'm going to relax and watch a bit of football, chill out, have some lunch and we'll see.  I think the course is playing a bit easier today but you never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT