TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2017
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Second round 68, you finished 20-under last year and ran away with this.  What is it about this golf course you like too much?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: It's just a really good golf course.  Makes you think out there.  There's a lot of options from the tee.  You can either choose to bomb it or go short.  I just like the thinking about this golf course.  Obviously there's a long way to 20-under now in the last two days, but yeah, we'll see.
Q. You're kind of in a similar position as last year, a quiet season like it was last year; do you feel the same vibes?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I feel like I've played a lot better this season, especially over the summer but didn't get the results.  I was up there at the PGA Championship and I've had a few weeks like that where I played well, but it has not connected over four rounds.
I feel like I've improved a lot since last year but I haven't got that win but hope to get it in the next few weeks.
Q. You struggled at No. 10, but did well coming down the stretch --
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Like yesterday, I hit a poor drive and made double unfortunately.  Had it going there on the front nine.  Holed some really good putts.  Yeah, just a few bad shots that cost me a a double and a couple of bogeys.  I feel like it was a lot better today than yesterday.
Q. We talked earlier in the week about coming here as a defending champion and the extra pressures, but you plotted your way around over two steady rounds.  How pleased are you with your work over Thursday and Friday?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I'm a lot happier today than I was yesterday.  Yesterday wasn't that great.  But I felt like today was improving a little bit.  A couple of poor shots on the back nine that cost me a bit, but I felt like there was a lot of positive today.
Q. Obviously when you've won on a golf course, you know what it takes to score low on around here.  How much do you draw on that in the tournament this year?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, that's obviously what I'm trying to do, the same thing as last year, but I've been struggling a little bit.
I felt like it was improving today.  I hit the driver a little bit better.  Still not good enough to shoot a really low one but hopefully I can do that over the next two days and I can get a low score out there.
Q. Overall, the scoring has been pretty good.  Nicolas Colsaerts is quite well clear, but there's still a lot of golf to be played, and with the double-bogeys out there, you can easily see a lead vanish in an instant.
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, you saw that last year.  I think I had a seven-shot lead and it got down to one pretty quick.
Anything can happen on this golf course.  I really like the layout.  I mean, it makes you think out there, and you can get in trouble but you can really get on a run, also.  It's going to be interesting over the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT