TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 31, 2017
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How does it feel to be returning here as defending champion?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: It feels pretty good, pretty special.  It's a great place.  Good golf course, very good hotel.  I'm looking forward to getting this week started.  Have a lot of good memories.  Hopefully I can do something similar.
Q. What's the main thing you remember about the tournament last year?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Most of it is probably on the golf course.  Especially the last round.  But overall, it's been a great week.  Been here a few times now and I've always enjoyed coming here.
Q. Nice to have this as a Rolex Series event, as well.  It gives the tournament a slightly different feel, doesn't it?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, the Rolex Series is some of the biggest tournaments we play all year.  Obviously that makes it more special to win one of them.  So I'd love to make it a double and win one more.
Q. It's a great start last year.  I think 65 and 62 over the first two days.  What was the best part of the game that got you to those scores?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I think what was key was that first round where I didn't actually play that well but I managed to shoot 65, which was really, really good.  And then in the second round, I just played great overall.  Hit the ball very good and holed a lot of putts.
But I think the key was that first round to get over with a good score when I'm not playing my best.
Q. In terms of this season, how do you think things are?  Just outside the top 30 last week at the HSBC.  How are things at the moment?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I felt like my game's been in really good shape this year.  The last three or four weeks, I've been struggling a little bit, but before that, I felt like over the summer somehow, I was playing really good golf.  I didn't really get the result but I felt like I was hitting the ball very good.
So I'm just hoping to get a strong finish here to the season like I did last year and see if I can get another win.
Q. Any extra pressure, do you feel, coming back here as a defending champion?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, maybe a little bit more pressure.  But I feel pretty comfortable here.  Obviously I know the golf course very well.  Have a lot of good memories.  So I'm just trying to remind myself of all the good memories and all the good shots.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT