PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2017
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great start to this year's PGA Championship.  How did you feel coming off 18?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I felt good.  Especially the first 15 holes, I felt like I was playing really, really well.  Hit my driver well.  Got myself in some really good positions.  So that was the key, and obviously it was a really nice way to finish with that long putt on 18.
Q. I think you said earlier in the week that this is a lovely course and the finishing holes are tough.  When you think about a course in that manner, does it mean that it suits your eye, suits your game, suits your setup?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I was very excited to get here to be honest.  I played it two or three years ago, this tournament.  Obviously it's a lot different.  There's a lot of holes I couldn't remember.  But I just knew it was going to be a really good golf course.  Definitely the greens have changed a lot, the speed and the grain on them.  It's very, very tricky.  If you hit too safe of shots to the greens, you leave yourself very, very tricky putts.  It's very challenging but it's good fun to play.
Q. How would you describe the effort as a whole?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I felt like I was playing some really, really good golf today, especially the first 15 holes.  I was striking the ball very well.  Yeah, I made it easy for myself.  Obviously it was a nice way to finish with a very long putt there on 18.
Q. What were the conditions like there in the opening round, considering the rain that we had earlier in the week?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: The first nine holes were just beautiful.  There was no wind.  It was not too hot, so we couldn't have gotten it better.  The back nine it got a bit hot.  But very, very happy, especially the way I drove it.
Q. You shot 67, 65 a week ago in Akron.  What did you find on Saturday and Sunday in Ohio that you were able to continue today?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: To be honest it was just the driving the first two days that got me in trouble.  I just found something in my driver on the weekend and I was able to start to go at the pins and making some birdies at Firestone.  That definitely gave me a lot of confidence.  I felt good in the practice rounds here, and I'm really enjoying this golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT