HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2017
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very much a case of saving the best for last, and this is your lowest round on this golf course,65, you must be very pleased?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I'm very happy.  I felt like I played really well the whole way around.  Hit a couple of bad shots in the middle around the turn, but then I played really well the last holes.  Stayed aggressive on the last holes.  After 14 I was trying to get to 10-under, but I'm happy with the way I played.
Q. Is the bogey on 17 the result of you trying to get that birdie to get further up the leaderboard?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I left it short on 16.  Hit a decent, pretty good shot into that and left it short in the middle and I didn't want to do that on 17.  It was a long putt, but I still wanted to give it a chance to go in.
Obviously it rolled by about six or seven feet and missed that one, unfortunately.  But still, I'm very happy with the way I played.  Happy with that birdie at the last.
Q. Two shots behind the leader as it stands at the moment but that's a lead that can disappear very quickly on this golf course?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, there's a lot of guys up there.  It plays a bit easier today, soft conditions.  Easier to hit the fairways, and the greens are very pure.  They are rolling nicely.  But yeah, like you said, everything can happen on those last four holes.  We'll wait and see.
Q. Good performance in Sweden, tied 34 last week; is there a feeling you've been building up to this kind of score and round of golf?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I felt like last week in Germany, I played all right, but especially mentally, I was very good.  Even though I made a few mistakes, I stayed very positive and I did the same this week.  I was very relaxed on the golf course.  I felt like this week, one day there was going to come a low round.
So it's a bit unfortunate yesterday, I felt like I played really well actually yesterday, but just had a poor finish.  I made a few bad mistakes, but I felt like all this week, I've stayed calm.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT