BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2017
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your best finish this year, in the Sixes with a partner, doesn't count as by yourself.  Sum it up for us, if you will.
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I still count that as a win, definitely.
It's funny actually, I didn't feel great on range.  Been struggling a little bit.  Practised really hard the last week or so.  And then I just relaxed when I got on the golf course.  Totally relaxed and I hit good shots.
Yeah, I played well.  It was a really nice feeling.  Sometimes you hit it great on the range and all of a sudden you get on the golf course and you hit a couple of bad shots and you're struggling.  Today was the other way around, which was a really nice experience.
Q. You were struggling.  What were you struggling with, and tell us how you fixed it.  Give us a little tip here.  We all want to know.
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I don't really know to be honest.  Like I said, I felt really relaxed as soon as I stepped to that first tee.  Hit a great drive and that gave me a bit of confidence and from there on, I felt good out there.  We had a good three ball, which was nice, also.
But like before, just in the warm up, I couldn't really get the feel.  I wasn't really striping the ball.  Was just struggling a little bit.  But I know I've been working really hard, like I said, the last week or so.  So I knew it was going to come at some point.
It was actually my caddie who said, "Go down the right of the water," and I said, "No, I want to hit driver left."  I just caught it a bit high in the face, and I was like, oh, is it going to make it or not.  But luckily it did and it turned out really well.
I tried to pump a 7-iron in there, and you know, the pin was tucked all the way back, so I was trying to hit it five or seven yards short of the pin.
Q. 66, you must be pleased with that today.
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I'm very pleased.  It's funny, I didn't feel that great on range when I warmed up today.  Just struggling a little bit to strike the ball.
But as soon as I stepped on the first tee, I felt very relaxed, and then I just hit a good drive and that gave me a bit of confidence and I just played well from there.  It was nice to see that.  Sometimes you hit it great on the range and you get on the course and you hit a couple of loose shots and you lose a bit of confidence.  Today was just the other way around, which was a really nice experience.
Q. What was the key to the game today?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: It was just all around.  I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  I think I missed a couple of greens only, which was nice.  But no, just kept it in play.  Like I said, I was very relaxed and enjoyed it out there, and that was definitely the key.
Q. Only one dropped shot on 17 but you made it back immediately on 18?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I hit a loose shot on 17 and that's what happened.  Short-sided myself and it was a bogey.
Yeah, I mean, 18, I hit a good drive.  I was not really sure, I caught the driver a little high in the face, so I was not sure it was going to carry.  But it did and it turned out very well.  Yeah, it was a nice finish.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT