TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 5, 2016
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 3-under, what are your thoughts on that round?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I thought I played really, really solid.  Missed a few short putts there in the middle of the round.  Had some great chances for birdie, but when I holed that one on 14, it was very important because I missed quite a few before that.
So it was nice to see one rolling in and then making a few birdies in a row there, it was very important.
Q. You blitzed the course yesterday, with a new course record.  What was it playing like today?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: It's obviously difficult.  I thought I did very well mentally.  I was very patient out there.  I felt like I was playing some great golf, a lot of good iron shots.  So yeah, I was really good mentally I think.
Obviously it's a shame with 18, but I just lost a little bit of concentration on that tee shot.  Felt like I've been hitting my driver and 3-woods really, really well, so I just lost a little bit of concentration.  You get in trouble quickly, so that's the key tomorrow.
Q. Seven-shot lead going into tomorrow.  How do you approach it?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, same as today.  Felt like I was doing a lot of good things today.  I was being aggressive.  The pin positions was very difficult today I thought, a lot of back pins, and we were just in-between clubs quite a few times, and it's very difficult to hit them close then.
Tomorrow I have to do the same, be aggressive, and see if I can make a few birdies.  That's the key.
Q. The fact that the lead was just four shots at one point, were you aware of what was going on on the leaderboard?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I'm a person that always looks at the leaderboard.  I think that's important.  I felt like I was playing really, really well.  I gave myself some really good chances on that front nine.  Felt like it could have been two or three shots better.
But it's difficult after yesterday, when you shoot such a good score, to come back and still keep making putts.  But no, I felt like I did really well.  I stayed patient and at the end of the round made some birdies in a row.
Q. Those putts on 14 and 16, was it, they were vital to really push on?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, exactly.  That one on 14 was very important, probably around 12-foot or something.  That was just to keep it going.  I felt like before that, I just left a few chances out there.  So it was very important to get that one in the hole.
Q. A lot of money obviously at stake tomorrow, but is that on your mind at all?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: No, it's not about the money.  This is The Final Series and it's a massive event and obviously it would be great to win it.  There's still 18 holes left and I really have to stay concentrated out there and stay in my own little zone.
Q. How do you sleep with a seven-shot lead?  Have you had one before overnight?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I've never had a seven-shot lead, no.  I felt a bit nervous when I went out today, also, because I've never been that many shots clear.  Yeah, it's a bit of a weird feeling, but I know it's not easy and there's a bunch of guys there, and it's possible to shoot a really low one out here.  Stay aggressive tomorrow and keep plugging away.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT