TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 4, 2016
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 2, where did that come from?
THORBJORN OLESEN: Well, I think I found something in Portugal.  I was playing really well.  Didn't score that well, but I felt like I was playing a lot better, so I was hoping for something good to come.  Yesterday was a great putting display, and today I played better and still putted great, you know, so it's been a couple of good days.
Q. A hole of beauty on 15 for an eagle, but the shot of the day for me that you whipped around that pole on 17, was that the shot of the day for you?
THORBJORN OLESEN: Definitely.  I hit a loose 3-wood from the tee, really just got out of it, and then had a tricky lie there and hit a great shot around, like you said, a low fade around up to 15 feet, 20 feet, and holed a great putt.  That will definitely keep your round going.  You can easily make a 5 from there instead of a 3, so yeah, that was definitely the shot of the day.
Q. You have won big championships, the Dunhill Links up there at the home of golf, Carnoustie, Kingsbarns.  Are you ready to take this big one in the final series?
THORBJORN OLESEN: Yeah, I think so.  I feel like I've been up in contention in a lot of big events.  Yeah, I feel pretty comfortable.  Still 36 holes to go, so that's a lot of golf to be played, but yeah, have to keep being aggressive out there, keep going after some of the pins and try to make birdies.  That's the only way I can win.
Q. Must be something special.
THORBJORN OLESEN: Oh, yeah, definitely, 9-under.  Yeah, great round.  I played a lot better than yesterday, and I still kept my putter really warm and holed some great putts.  I kept it in the fairway on almost every hole and hit the greens and gave myself chances, so it was just a lot better than yesterday.
Q. And among those great putts, that one for eagle at the par-5, as well; that was superb, wasn't it?
THORBJORN OLESEN: Yeah, up over a little ridge, as well.  Not an easy putt.  But yeah, just found the line perfectly, and the greens are rolling really pure out there, so that helps me with keep holing putts.
Q. Was it 6-under for the last six holes; do you have to pinch yourself?
THORBJORN OLESEN: Listen, I didn't even know.  I was just trying to stay focused out there and keep being aggressive, keep trying to make birdies, and obviously that helped.
Q. I know it's only the halfway stage, but your street is clear now; do you think you've got this tournament won?
THORBJORN OLESEN: No, definitely not.  36 holes, that's so much golf to be played, and a lot of things can happen on this course.  You have quite a lot of water on it, and yeah, you can get in some trouble, and there's a lot of birdie and eagle chances out there, so anything can happen.  But like I said before, I have to keep being aggressive out there, keep going after some of the pins and still be aggressive on the greens, as well.
Q. You said before how the game was coming together after the indifferent spell; how much has it made a difference playing with new clubs?
THORBJORN OLESEN: Yeah, I mean, obviously I changed there in Portugal, and definitely my fairway woods is going a lot better.  I feel like I'm hitting the same distance with the irons.  There's not much difference.  But I hit some great 3-woods in Portugal and this week, so that's been a change and been an improvement for my game.
Q. The putter is the same, very trusty?
THORBJORN OLESEN: It's still a Nike putter, and it's keep being in the bag so far.  It's doing a great job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT