COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 29, 2016
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Finished in style?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: To be honest, I played great down the last nine holes.  Gave myself so many chances.  Was struggling a little bit on the front nine but still, keeping it in play.  So it was nice to finish with birdie.  I had a good chance there on 16 for eagle but it was nice with a couple of birdies on the last three.
Q. Good to maintain the mentality, that has to be right as well as the technicalities in the wind like this.
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, under 70 today is a great score.  It's tricky out there.  It's getting cold and it's very windy, also.  I'm pleased with the way I hit the ball the ball.
Q. Game is in good shape?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, it's great to be in the final group in your second tournament.  I'm looking forward to it tomorrow and we'll see what comes.
Q. And those thoughts into the final day, more a case of all the same, if it's windy and blustery like this once again?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, it will probably be the same.  I mean, it normally is here.  It's normally pretty windy.  Hopefully a little bit warmer tomorrow.  But yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  You get out there and just keep fighting.
Q. A round of 69, what's your assessment of today's play?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, a little bit like the first two days, actually.  Slow start.  But then I played really nicely on the last seven, eight holes.  Hit some great shots in there.  It was difficult to putt with this wind and it was getting cold, also.  It's not easy.  But I gave myself a lot of good chances there and that's very nice.
Q. You hit it on in two on 18, ran the first one by a little bit and you had a tester coming back.  How much of a difference does it make that you holed that putt, because it will put you in the final group.  Is it important to you to be in the final group?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: It's more important just to hole the putt there.  I had a really good chance for eagle on 16, good chance on 17 for birdie also, and 15.  So it was nice to see one drop there on 18, even though I ran it by a couple of meters.  But yeah, it's obviously really nice if I get to that final group, but it was just important to see a putt drop in there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT