COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 28, 2016
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under coming in, what was it that inspired that performance when the wind picked up?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I don't know, it was a slow start.  I think it was just a little bit early, 7.00 tee time.  But yeah, I just picked it up there.  I hit a couple of really close -- missed a short one on 9.  Hit some really good shots there on 10 and 11.  I don't know, I just hit better golf shots in the wind.  I don't know why.
Yeah, we got a good break there.  The first nine holes, there's not much wind, but didn't really take advantage of it.  But started playing well in the last nine holes.
Q. Last year you won the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship.  How much of a confidence boost does it give you when you know you can play well and win in the wind when you get conditions like this?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I mean, it's obviously given me a lot of confidence.  I've always played in a lot of wind, and I like it.  I like this golf course a lot.  I think it suits my eyes, and I've played well before here.  So yeah, I'm looking forward to a good week.  Been working hard on my golf game.  Still need to work hard, but it's getting better every day.
Q. So just finally, are you one of those players that would relish the opportunity for the wind to blow stronger like it's forecast for the last two days?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: No, I think this is pretty nice (laughs).  I don't want it too difficult but we'll see.  I'll see how the weather is and we'll have to manage that.
Not the best start the front nine.  We had not a lot of wind, so it was pretty easy conditions.  But I still found it a little bit tricky.  When I hit good shots, I didn't hit the best putts.  Yeah, it was just a little bit of a bad mix the front nine and then I hit two really close there on 10, 11.  Obviously nice when you make it easy for yourself and hit them a little bit closer.
Q. I take it, it's every bit as breezy as it was on the first day?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, definitely picked up here on the back nine for us.  So we'll see how it gets this afternoon, but looking forward to this weekend.
Q. You've heard the scare stories of the winds coming in, so presumably, nice to get it done, isn't it, and be right up there in that kind of position?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Definitely.  Right now it looks like it's going to be nice the whole afternoon also, but it's a lot better than what I was expecting this morning, so I'm happy with that.
Q. Excited by the position?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, we have to keep working on the things we've been working on the last few weeks.  I've done a lot of changes and there's still a few things that feels uncomfortable on the golf course.  But I just have to keep trusting it and keep working on it.
Q. A lot of changes; what have you changed?  There's a lot of different swing changes I've done, and yeah, it's been a little bit tricky.  But I'm happy I got four rounds last week.  That was the main goal.  Just keep working and hopefully a good week here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT