ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2015
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How does it feel to be champion here at St. Andrews?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: It feels unbelievable.  It's been a very tough year and like I said, standing here with this trophy is unbelievable, on these three golf courses and finishing off especially on St. Andrews is a great feeling.
Q. You birdied the first to start off.  Did that calm the nerves -- and then what happened?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Got too aggressive on the second hole, hit a great drive down there and felt like I had a good yardage.  Just too aggressive, and as soon as you get too aggressive on a links golf course, you get punished.  So I just kept myself together and knew that I have tried it before.  So stayed very patient.
Q. 2-up with three to play, what was going through your mind when you were standing on 16 tee?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Trying to make 4 on 16.  And as soon as 16 was over, I was trying to make 4 on 17.  That was my thinking all the way.
Q. What does this mean to you?  Obviously it's a huge point of money and Ryder Cup points for next year, on a personal level, given everything you've been through this year?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, definitely more personal, and like I said before, very emotional, walking up here.  It's been a very tough season for me, and I would like to give a special thanks to my coach's family and friends, and anyone who has been there.
Q. Did you ever think you would be back here again?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I kept believing.  I shot a lot of good rounds actually but I couldn't manage to keep it together.  It was nice this week just to play three great rounds of golf the first three and kept it together in this last round.
Q. You have your card for next year.  How much of a stress reliever is that for you?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, as long as the season keeps going, you start thinking about it more and more, and I knew I was quite far behind and I knew I had to do something good the last three events.  So it was nice to get it over this week and not have to put too much pressure on myself for the next few weeks.
Q. And do you target now The Ryder Cup?  It's exactly a year away.
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I haven't even thought about it all.  I've just been thinking about trying to get my game back together and try to play some good golf, and Ryder Cup has not been in my head at all.
It's a good start, but it's a long way.  Yeah, just keep working hard and just want to enjoy this moment to start with.
Q. It says a lot for your mental strength that you survived that wobble at the beginning of the round today.  You bounced back so well.  What was going through your mind at that time?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Well, I did it before when I won my first tournament.  I had a three-shot lead, and very quickly came back and I think we were out -- I was one ahead, so I knew I had tried it before.  Kept being patient out there, kept trying to make fours and give myself chances for birdie.  It was nice to get that one in on 15.  I had a few good chances before that, so that was a big relief.
Q. So much resting on your shoulders coming into this, being in danger of losing your card, and you've come back so well.  Are you looking to really push on now?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, definitely.  I want to start off, like I said before, enjoying this moment and then look ahead after that.
Q. Did you think you could win at the start of the week?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I know I can win any week if I play my best, but obviously there's a lot of pressure, and I think it was a big help that I was playing with Kelly this week, very nice guy, very chill and we had a good laugh out there.  I think that kept me calm, also.
Q. How would you rank this win against your other previous wins?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: This is obviously a bigger tournament, stronger field, great golf courses.  The first one is always going to be very memorable, but this one is ranked very, very high.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT