ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2015
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on shooting such a lovely score to lead the Dunhill Links?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, it was a great day.  Started off bad by hitting it in the water on the first but got over it.  Played some good golf out there.  Just my putter started to get very hot out there and I holed a lot of great putts.  So yeah, it was good fun.   
 Q.  Not always easy to get over something like that but in this kind of thing, you can shrug it off your mind?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, good company, we were having a laugh out there, and got over it very quickly.  But definitely helps when you hole a few long putts, also.   
 Q.  Must be lovely to see your name up there, when you've been struggling just a little bit?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I have.  To be honest it's been very tough this season with an injury, also, and playing some bad golf.  But I've been finding my way and just practicing hard and just hoping for it to come along at some point.   
 Q.  And genuinely there have been so many positive signs of late?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Well, there's been some good rounds, but just haven't been able to really do it for all four rounds.  But yeah, hopefully I can do it this week.  It's definitely nice to be up there on the leaderboard.   
 Q.  Have you stayed relaxed knowing your precarious position on The European Tour?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, it helps when you play with a nice guy like Kelly, we are having good fun out there.  It's been beautiful weather and playing these three golf courses is good fun.   
 Q.  Your thoughts into Sunday, presumably there can be no let-up because there are so many birdies to be made?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, we will see how the weather is tomorrow but if it's the same, there's definitely going to be a lot of birdies.  I'll just have to try to keep up and go out there and hopefully find a few birdies.   
 Q.  Do you think you can hold on to that lead?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Well, we'll see end of the day what we lead by, but it's always difficult to go into the last day with a lead.  It's definitely a nice position to be in, and you know you can shoot a good score around this golf course if the weather is nice.  It's definitely not going to be easy but I'm going to go out there tomorrow and try my best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT