ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 25, 2014
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   You're becoming quite a regular visitor to the media center.   Another great round for you out there today.   Talk us through how it went out there and your thoughts on the round. 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I tried to go out there and be aggressive like I did the first two days, but I didn't have the game today.   Didn't feel good.   I was struggling out there.   I made some great up and downs to keep it going.   Great chip down the 3rd where I hit my tee shot way right.
So it was a fight all the way through, but I still had fun and I was fighting all the way.
So 5‑under is a great score today.
OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   Must give you great confidence struggling ans still 5‑under.
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Exactly.   I was a bit off line out there with a few tee shots, but I kept on fighting.   I hit some good iron shots from some tough positions. 
Yeah, it's awesome to shoot 5‑under today with struggling a little bit.

Q.   6‑shot lead at one stage.   Were you aware of that at that stage?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I didn't know if I was 6.   I saw I was 5 shots I think when I went to 17.   Yeah, I look at the leaderboard a few times out there and look what's happening, but I try to keep my how had down and be aggressive and still try to make birdies out there.   That's what I'm going to try to do tomorrow.

Q.   Were you surprised that a few of the bigger guns didn't climb the leaderboard?   Were you expecting them to be up there with you?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I think I was expecting a couple low rounds today definitely.   That's why I felt like I had to be aggressive out there and try to shoot in the mid‑60s.
But to get it in at 67 was great for me today with the way I played.

Q.   Take us through the drive on the 3rd.   You took the provisional. 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I couldn't see where I had ended up, so I thought I might have to take a provisional.   I went up there and I had to chip it out and missed the green just left and holed a great chip shot and a great putt on the next.
That was, I think, the key to my round today.   Those two holes could have easily been two shots worse, so definitely take that.   I think you need to be a little bit lucky sometimes also in golf.

Q.   What's the mindset going into tomorrow?   Nerves? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I mean, for me it's been a couple of years since I won, so definitely I'll feel the nerves.   I've been in contention in big tournaments and I know how it feels.
But it'll be great to get that victory, so it'll definitely be on my mind.
Like I said, just want to be out there tomorrow, be aggressive, and have fun.

Q.   Do you think you'll have a score in your mind before you tee off tomorrow?   Looking at, say, 5‑under tomorrow?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I'll definitely take 5‑under tomorrow, I think.   It'll be tough to catch me if I shoot 5‑under.
No, like I said, try to go out there, be aggressive on the greens, be aggressive with my iron shots, and try to hit a few more fairways than I did today.
But, yeah, just go out and have fun tomorrow is the key for me, I think. 

Q.   You mentioned the aggressive mindset.   Do you feel that's how you play your best golf, when you are playing like that?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, when I'm not thinking about it too much and just being aggressive, swinging the club and not really thinking about the technical stuff, that's when I'm playing my best.

Q.   You also mentioned pressure that goes with this situation.   What's the key to handling that, blocking that out in your mind? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I think it gives you a lot of confidence when you're there on is Sunday and you know you played well because you're in contention.   I think you take that with you and bring it out on the course and keep believing in yourself.
Yeah, just have fun, I think. 

Q.   How do you try to keep it fun out there?   There is a lot on the line at the moment.   How do you keep it fun? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, but in the end it's just golf.   It's supposed to be fun to play.   It's work, but it's great work.   It's a lot of fun to play. 
So if you hit a bad shot, you just to have step back and think about it. 

Q.   How exciting is it for you to have one round to go and be in contention?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   It's great.   Really exciting.   I'm looking forward to standing on that first tee tomorrow and get the last round going and see if I can play some good golf.   Hopefully walk down on 18 and have a chance to win. 

Q.   Did you make it to the beach yesterday?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I didn't actually.   I got stuck at the hotel.   (Laughter.)   I was a bit tired.   I think I had that 4:00 wake‑up call, and when I got back there and I saw my bed, I lied down for a little bit.   (Laughter.)

Q.   What's more difficult, having a three‑shot lead going into the final round or three shots behind in terms of the mindset?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I always think it's easier when you're three shots clear.   That's where you want to be.   But you still have that in your mindset in the back of your head that it's going to be tough. 
You can make a couple bogeys and they make a couple birdies and all of a sudden it's switched around.
It's definitely not easy, but I'm happy with at three‑shot lead.   I would've taken that on Wednesday night. 

Q.   Throughout your professional and amateur career, have you ever had such a lead going into the final round?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I think when I won in Sicily I was leading by two or three shots.   So, yeah.

Q.   One more question:   In relation to your putting this week, have you ever putted any better?   I think you had 24 putts in the first round and 24 again today.   Fairly impressive numbers. 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, the first day and today it felt really good on the greens.   Yesterday was not the same, but I had some tricky putts also.
I just see the line really good.   The surface is pure here.   They're some of the best greens we putt on, so that makes it easier when you stroke it well. 
Then I've had the pace this week, which is really important. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT