ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 24, 2014
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   Thorbjorn, welcome back to the media center.   Another fantastic round out there for you today.   What's the secret I guess for you on this golf course?   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   It's always tough to come back after a great round.   To shoot another good round is tough.   
But I felt like I played solid out there.   Gave myself a lot of chances for birdie, especially on the front nine.   Had a few lip‑outs, but the pins were a little bit trickier today and it made to a bit trickier with the putter.   
So I'm happy with the way I played.   Hit a lot of greens and that's important here.  
   
 Q.   What were the conditions like compared to yesterday afternoon?   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   It was obviously a lot easier with no wind, but I thought they put the pins tougher today.  
Then obviously yesterday there was a few downwind holes, and today they played a bit longer.  
But a lot of good chances out there when there is no wind, so you feel like ‑‑ today I felt like I should have been 4‑, 5‑under, but 3‑under is a very good score after a great round yesterday, so...  
   
 Q.   (Regarding last three holes.)   Were you happy that you got that reward?   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Oh, yeah.   It was very important, I think.   I saw the leader there was 11‑under also, so nice to catch up with him on the last three holes.  
And my save on 17 I think was very important.   That up and down from the bunker was a tricky shot and I played it beautifully.   
The last three holes were key, I think.   
   
 Q.   What's the plan for you this afternoon?   Stick around and see how the guys go in the afternoon?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   No.   I will maybe hit a few balls and go back to the hotel and maybe head down to the beach and see a bit of Perth.  
   
 Q.   Anything in particular you wanted to do while you were here?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, heard a lot of good things about the beach.   Also about the city.  
So that's two things I want to see.  
   
 Q.   The Sicilian Open, was that the last one you won?   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   That's a bit over two years ago.   How much would it mean to you to get another win?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   No, it would mean everything.   That's why we play, is to win.   Like I said yesterday, it's been a dry period.   Haven't won for a couple years.  
So I'm really trying to find that victory.   It would be a great place to do it here.  
   
 Q.   At the halfway mark you're one of the favorites now.   How do you handle the pressure and expectations that come along with that?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I have a lot of expectations on myself also I think, and I've been in this position a few times in my career so I know how it is.   
With the way I played these two days I feel more confidence going into the weekend, so just go out there and have fun.   
I have my friend on the bag this week, so we have a good laugh out there, and I think that's very important.  
   
 Q.   Who is your friend?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   My friend is a friend from back home, Denmark.   My caddie is on a little holiday this week, so I brought my friend out.   We're having a great time.   It's been great these couple of days here.  
   
 Q.   Does your friend know much about golf or...  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, he's my really good friend.   He's been on the National Team in Denmark, so we've played golf since we were 10, 11 years old.   We know each other very well.  
   
 Q.   What's his name?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Nikolai.   
   
 Q.   And surname?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Aataard, A‑a‑t‑a‑a‑r‑d.   
   
 Q.   And Nikolai?   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   N‑i‑c‑o‑l‑a‑i.  
   
 Q.   Will you catch up with him and go to the beach now?   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, we flew out here Monday and spent some good days together.   I don't get see him that often.   I'm living in London.   So it's nice to have him with me this week.   He has been caddying for me a few times before, so we know how it is.  
It's nice to have a good laugh out there and enjoy.   
OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   Excellent.   Thanks for joining us, and best of luck on the weekend.  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT