ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 23, 2014
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   Thank you for joining us.   Fantastic round out there.   Course record equalling round.   Talk us through it a little bit.
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I played really, really well the front nine especially.   Gave myself a lot of chances there. 
Then other back nine I hit a couple bad drives, but got a little bit lucky and got away with them.
But it was a solid round.   Especially my short game was amazing out there.   My chipping, bunker shots were really, really good. 
So very pleased with the round. 
OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   Questions. 

Q.   The drive on 18.   Got a bit right, then you got a break. 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, on 16 I hit this right on the drive also, and then hit it further right on 18.
Yeah, I got really lucky, bounced from the tree inside and then the nice 3‑wood on the green and got away there with a four.   It was one of those days where you got a bit lucky also.

Q.   How familiar are you with the course, and did it play as you expected?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, it did.   I played it Tuesday and then yesterday in the Pro‑Am.   Yesterday was really windy, so I think that was good.   I saw the course in those conditions. 
Yeah, I think it's a great golf course.   The greens are perfect.   Layout is great.   So I was really happy to play well.

Q.   Most of the low scores came this morning when the wind wasn't blowing hard.   Was that an advantage for you? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Definitely.   Yeah, it was tougher this afternoon I think.   It was quite windy in the middle of the round.   I am from Denmark and used to playing in a lot of wind, so I think that helps me a little bit.
Yeah, I just played really solid and was putting really well also. 

Q.   Does it put any extra pressure on you at the beginning of the day when you're in one of those groups with Victor and Geoff out there? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I think it gave me a little bit of confidence actually.   Haven't played as well as I wanted to this year, so it was nice to get in one of the good groups this week.
I think it just gave me a little boost in confidence before I went out there. 

Q.   You're still very young and obviously going places on tour.   What would a win here mean?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   It would be great.   It's been a few years since I won.   Especially the last six months I feel like I've played some good golf and just haven't been able to put the rounds together.
So been a dry period.   It would be really, really nice to get some confidence back, and to get a win would be amazing.

Q.   You didn't come out here last year.   What was the reason? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I played in Melbourne last year the World Cup.   I just really enjoyed it.   I like it out here ins Australia.   Just fit my schedule this year.   Last year I played a lot of golf around this time, so it was tough to fit this tournament in the schedule.
But this year I've had a few breaks, so it was just good timing. 

Q.   Just for the Australian fans who night not know much about you, give us a brief history of your history, what got you into golf in the first place. 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I started playing golf when I was seven.   My dad played, so that's why I got into it.   But football was always my main sport, and that's what I had my focus on until I was probably 16.
Then I started taking golf very seriously.   But football was the big sport.   Yeah, I turned professional when I was 18 and played on the (indiscernible) tour, and now four years on the main tour. 

Q.   Were you any good at football? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I think I was.   I got a few injuries and that helped me.   I had to stop.   I was a pretty good footballer.   I don't think I would have been as good as Ronaldo or anything, but I was decent.

Q.   What kind of injuries?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I had a groin injury, and it's come back a couple years ago also actually.   So it's just one of those injuries where you‑‑ if you play football, you're struggling as soon as you get troubles in there.
So there was no way back really. 

Q.   Does it trouble you at all when you're playing golf?   I know you're stationary most of the time. 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Not anymore.   Start of the year I actually fell off a camel in the desert and pulled my muscle there, so took a couple months before I was ready to play. 
But, yeah, sometimes it bounces back and I need to get some treatment.
But it's all good now.

Q.   Tell us more about this camel.   What happened there?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   No, I was in Dubai with a few friends.   We did all sort of stuff.   We were riding on motorbikes and all this stuff.   Then we went on the camel the last day, and I just had to get off and just pulled a muscle. 
Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT