WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You have 3-down early, he comes back, you're all square, and some excitement down the stretch, here.  This is a nice win for you?
THORBJORN OLESEN: Yeah, definitely.  I felt it was a really good match, to be fair.  Webb came back strong and made special really good putts and made some good birdies and had a few chances.  A little bit unfortunate the way the match finished, but, yeah, I'm really happy.
Q. You both make birdie putts at 16.  So to have that hole, and then you come here to 17.  When that ball left your club face, what were you thinking?
THORBJORN OLESEN: Well, I just felt really good with my game.  It is a tough pin but I felt I had a good number.  (Inaudible).  I didn't even see it, to be honest.  All of a sudden I found out it hit the rocks and came back in.  So like I said, a little bit unfortunate the way it finished.  I'm happy to win.
Q. It's always good to have a nice, tough game to get going, to get the juices going.  Tell us about the match today.
THORBJORN OLESEN: Yeah, I felt pretty comfortable.  I felt like I was playing well.  I got 3-up with some great shots and made a few good birdies.  And Webb started making birdies and came strong back and I felt like I played well.  I obviously got a bit lucky on the last.  But it was a really good match.
Q. Yeah, that luck is the sort of luck you need, isn't it?
THORBJORN OLESEN: Yeah, I mean it was lucky.  Definitely, I just pulled it a little bit and hit the rocks and came back in, and made a great two-putt and he unfortunately bogeyed it.  But it was a well played match, both of us.  Happy to win the first of it.
Q. Have you got a taste for this?  Are you enjoying this match play?
THORBJORN OLESEN: Yeah, I enjoyed it a lot, especially when you start playing better.  Then makes it more fun.  And I felt like I was putting well.  And I started holing again in the last few holes, which was really nice.  I missed a few on the front nine, but, yeah, I felt like my game is getting better and better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT