MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THORBJORN OLESEN:   I holed some great putts, especially on 1, and hit it close into 2 and made an easy birdie.   I played really solid hit.   I hit a lot of good shots, and unfortunately hit two bad drives on 10 and 11, but the rest was really, really, really solid.   I holed a few putts today, and that was nice.   
   
 Q.   Coming off 10 and 11, talk about 12.   You made a birdie there, just how you played that hole and how the hole is playing.   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Well, the hole, I think, is playing always tough.   It's a small green, and the wind is tricky there.   But I've hit three great shots so far and hopefully I can do it again tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   What have you figured out from the first day to today?   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I actually thought I played well on the first day, but I didn't figure out the greens the first day.   I hit a few bad drives on the back nine and got really punished and made a few doubles there.   But I feel like I've played really well and hit a lot of good drives and made it easy for myself.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about that stretch from 12, 13, 14, 15, your thoughts and what you did there?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I hit it really close on 12.   I think it was probably five feet, four feet.   And then I hit two great shots into the next and holed a great putt, also.  
   
 Q.   How long was your putt on 13?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Probably 15 feet, but pretty straight uphill.   It was a great second shot and great putt, so that was nice.  
   
 Q.   And then 16 and 17, how close were you on those?   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Well, 16, I mean, I hit a good shot but it was a couple yards to be perfect, and then it rolled back down and I three‑putted it.   And then I had a good chance on 17 and a good chance on 18.   But I played well and holed some good putts.  
   
 Q.   What were your impressions about Guan?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Unbelievable.   He's a great player.   I mean, every shot he hit was almost at the pin and in the right spots.   He could have holed a few more putts today, but he didn't.   But I was really impressed by his game.   It was impressive to watch.  
   
 Q.   What do you think this could do for golf in China, how well he's playing this week and his performance overall?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   A lot of kids in China must watch and dream that they can be here, also.   So I think it's really good for the game.   There are coming more and more good golfers from Asia, so it's nice for the game.  
   
 Q.   Were you guys put on the clock at all?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I think we were, yeah, I don't know, on 15 or something like that, yeah.   But I didn't think he played slow.   I think he played pretty quick actually.   He's 14, and there's a big crowd following him, so it's pretty difficult for him.   I think he's handled it really, really good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT