OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 26, 2019
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thorbjørn, 68 today, steady away so far this week.  How do you assess where you are in the tournament?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I played a lot better yesterday.  I struggled a bit today.  Struggled a bit with the driver and couldn't really find the sweet spot, so I'm really happy with a 4-under.
My short game was pretty good today.  Sometimes it's really nice to make a score when you don't play that well.
Q. 69, striping every shot, or 68 having to really work for it, which one is better?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: The 68 is obviously better.  But I felt like yesterday, I was playing really, really well.  I know it's there.  I just need to get on the range and just work a little bit on it and hopefully I can find back into that rhythm like I had yesterday.
Q. Everyone has been taking chunks out of this golf course this week.  Is it changing as we get towards the last day?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I thought it was more difficult today.  A bit of wind.  Greens firming up a little bit.  A few tricky pins, also, for today.  It was definitely not as easy as the first two days, and if it gets breezy tomorrow, it could be difficult.
Q. Is there a target score in mind?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: No, I would like to go out there tomorrow and play like I did yesterday.  That's the goal.  And if not, I'm just going to fight it out and hopefully shoot a decent score.
Q. A third round 68 here.  I know there's parts of your game you're still working on but you're just two shots back from the leaders as we stand.  How do you feel?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, it's very nice.  It was a bit of a battle today.  Has to be said, I didn't strike it as well as I did yesterday.  Thought I had the swing pretty much under control yesterday and today got a little bit iffy.  Yeah, it was just a battle, so I'm really happy with a 68.
Q. Do you feel like at times you have to help manage your patience?  I know golfers really push themselves, but you've had to contend with social media accounts being hacked and looking for the golf course with binoculars; how has it been so far?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: You know, that was obviously bad luck, but when you feel like you're playing well and something like that happens, it's okay.  It's more when you're battling it out and you get unlucky, it's really tough.
It didn't do anything to me.  I just keep on going.  Like I said yesterday, I played really nicely and today was a bit more of a battle.  Hopefully I can get out there tomorrow and get back into the same.
Q. Has there been any change in how the course played?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, it was tougher today.  A couple holes into the wind played quite long.  Greens were definitely firm and a few tricky pins out there.  It definitely wasn't as easy as the first couple of days.
Q. Do you have a number in mind for tomorrow?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: No, not really.  We'll see at the end of the day, but I'm just going to work a little bit on my game today and hopefully I can get back out there tomorrow and play like I did yesterday.  That will be the key, and if not, I'll just have to battle it out again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT