ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 23, 2013
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   6‑under par 66, in round three.   Lot of things had to go right today?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, well, I had a great start to the round.   Four straight birdies there makes it a little bit easier.   I felt really good out there, and I hit a lot of good shots.   I think I could have holed a few more putts, actually, but it was a nice way to finish on 18 with a great second shot to make birdie.

Q.   What was the most impressive stat of the day?   The four birdies to start with, the fact that you only had one bogey on the day, or the fact that you hit it inside 3 feet on 18? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Well, you've got to say 18.   It's a hell of a hole and a tough hole to be on, so that second shot is probably the shot of the day for me.   But it was a great round, and I hit a lot of good shots and made it easy for myself today.

Q.   You've been playing well all week.   What's been the key? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   First of all, I love this golf course.   It's a great course.   It's tough, and it's got a bit of everything, and I've been striking it nicely, a lot of fairways, a lot of greens and holed a few good putts.

Q.   Which club did you hit at 18? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I hit a wedge, 46 degree.

Q.   You've been singing this young man's praises.   What an impressive 66 today.   31 on your opening 9, and you close on 16, 17, 18, with 2‑under par.   How proud are you of this round today? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Everything on this golf course is a good score, I think.   I just got a great start to the round today and played some great golf.   Hit a lot of good shots and made it easy for myself.   It was really nice.

Q.   Your first PGA TOUR event.   We've seen you play a couple times in the states already, WGC events so far this year.   Has there been much of an adjustment from spending the majority of your time on the European Tour to here in the United States? 
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I don't know.   I think it's tough to say.   This is my first week, and I'm just trying to play well and play some good golf.   It's been good this week, but I'm trying to learn how to play over here and see if I can play a few more events this year on the PGA TOUR and try to win.

Q.   Since we'll hopefully see a lot of you here in the United States, you've got one of the coolest names on paper, but there have been some problems for pronunciation for Americans.   Give us the proper pronunciation Danish style?
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Thorbjorn Olesen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT