TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2018
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 68, an up-and-down round, still in the hunt.  What are your thoughts going into Sunday?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Felt pretty good today to be honest.  Felt I was hitting it nicely.  Hit a wrong club there on the par 3 and 3-putted that one, and then a stupid bogey on the next.  If I wouldn't have done that, I felt like I played really well.
Q. Low scores this week and a lot of birdies out there.  Would you rather that be the scenario going into Sunday when you're trailing, that you can put up a low number and try to run down the guy that's leading?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, this is a golf course where you can really get on a run.  You saw Haotong today did that.  Anything is possible tomorrow.  It's definitely not over yet.
Q. A third round 68.  Was it a little bit more of a struggle out there for you today?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I felt like I was hitting the ball nicely and felt relaxed.  Hit a stupid club there on the par 3 to the back edge and 3-putted that one.  Before that I felt like I was playing really well.  A bit frustrated, bogeyed the next because of that.
But after that, I felt like I was playing nicely.
Q. Coming in there were a couple of birdies that kept you in touch with the right end of the leaderboard?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I mean, like I said, I felt a lot better today than I did yesterday on that back nine.  I felt comfortable and relaxed.  I was very patient today, even though I was only level par after eight holes.  I was still patient and I made a few birdies coming in.  So that's the key tomorrow, stay like that, and hopefully I'll get that momentum going.
Q. Four shots back going into Sunday.  Does that change anything in your mind-set when you go out on the course in terms of aggression?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I'm a pretty aggressive player, and I'm going to be like that tomorrow.  I think this is a course where you can really get on a run and you saw Haotong did that today.
Hopefully can be my turn tomorrow.
Q. Having won here two years ago, can you take something from that tomorrow to help you out as well?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: It's a new tournament, but like I said the whole week, I feel comfortable on this golf course, and you know, hopefully tomorrow I can get on a run and get that momentum going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT