THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was the experience today?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   It was nice.   I really enjoyed it.   Great guy, great player, fantastic.   I really enjoyed to play with him.   And it's great crowds out there, also.  
So it's just really fantastic for me to try that.  
   
 Q.   The atmosphere was good?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   It was great.   I've never played before so many people before.   So it was quite a big thing for me.   I tried to enjoy it.   I thought I hit a lot of good shots out there.   Also could have made a few more putts.   But, yeah, I thought I played pretty well.  
   
 Q.   Are you pleased with the way you reacted out there after you dropped a couple of birdie shots?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I was quite nervous the first three or four holes, and I hit a few bad shots.   Yeah, 14 cost me two shots.   But I thought I played well.   I kept the ball in play and gave myself a lot of chances.   So I was quite happy with the game.  
   
 Q.   Was there much interaction between you and Tiger?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   No, I think we had a little chat down the 7th.   But not much, no.   
   
 Q.   Before the round did he speak to you?   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   No, no.   
   
 Q.   Did you try andspeak to him?   
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Not really.   I think he's out here for winning, also, and I think he's quite concentrating on that, so I didn't want to disturb him.  
   
 Q.   Did you learn much from playing with him?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I mean he had a great strategy for this course.   He hit a lot of irons from the tee and took all the bunkers out of play.   I learned a lot from that.   And, yeah, it was just a great experience for me.  
   
 Q.   Is this the biggest crowd you've played before?   Did you enjoy that?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I did, I enjoyed it a lot.   I think it's great.   Yeah, I think it's a lot of fun to play before so many people here.   It's a great tournament.  
   
 Q.   Did it feel to you like you're getting on the world stage and a lot of people are learning about you?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I hope so, yeah.   I'm trying.   I'm working hard on the range and just trying to get up there and try to be as good as possible.   I think I've done well this year.   I've had a few more chances to really get up there.  
I'm working hard and hopefully have a good day tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel on the first tee this morning?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I was really nervous, especially on the first tee I would say actually‑‑ not really before, but on the first tee I was really nervous and probably the first three or four holes, I think.   And then I just calmed down and just played my own game.  
   
 Q.   Why were you nervous, because of Tiger or because of the situation you were in?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   No, it was mainly because of Tiger.   He's been my idol for so many years, since I was a little kid.   So it's a big thing for me to play with him.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on tomorrow?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I thought I played really well today, actually.   Unfortunately I made a bad mistake on 14 and made a double there and on 18 I got a flier.   I thought I played well.   I had a few more chances, also.   So just try to do the same tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You made a bogey at 14 today.   What happened there?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, well I thought I could get a sand wedge on it, and obviously I couldn't.   And I hit it into the lip and it came back down.   It's just one of those stupid mistakes.   I had a 3‑wood from the tee.   And that's what happens.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   Yeah, I did.   I went to bed quite late.   But, yeah, sleep well, and got probably seven or eight hours in, so that was good.  
   
 Q.   What's been the reaction in Norway to all of this?  
THORBJORN OLESEN:   I don't know.   You'll have to ask them.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT