TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 2, 2018
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 3-putt at the last for your first bogey of the week, but overall how do you feel?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I felt like I played well the first 11 holes.  Hit the ball nicely and gave myself a lot of good chances.  I sort of lost it a little bit, my concentration, yeah, just lost a little bit for those last seven, eight holes and didn't play that well.
Q. Your season has been incredible to look at.  Obviously the first nine starts, just the one Top-10 and a 10th place finish, and since winning Italy, five Top-10s.  Is this more than a run of form?  Have you turned a corner in your game?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I think I got a few things sorted for sure and definitely more consistent.  Hit more fairways, especially, and yeah, I feel like my game is in pretty good shape.
Q. Currently seventh in The Race to Dubai, two million behind Francesco, and if you were to win here that would get to a million.  Would you consider going to South Africa and narrow that gap even further?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I've made a lot of golf this summer.  I think with The Ryder Cup, I've played something like 11 or 12 out of 15 weeks.  It was a long stretch and you can feel it a little bit.  I'm just trying to finish the year really good.  Hopefully I can get a win here or Dubai.
Q. A 67 today, one off the lead.  You talked yesterday about the importance of keeping bogeys off your card.  Outside of the last hole, you've done that this week.  How important has that been?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: It's definitely key.  There's a lot of birdie chances out there but you know, you make it a lot easier for yourself if you don't make any bogeys.  I did that pretty well today.  Played nicely for the first 11 holes and then a little bit of a struggle coming in unfortunately.  Felt like I lost a little bit of concentration or energy out there.  Yeah, unfortunate to 3-putt the last but still a decent round.
Q. You talked about how much golf you've played the last few weeks but are you still riding a bit of a momentum wave after The Ryder Cup?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, this is big tournaments coming up and they are very important.  So obviously I'm trying hard to finish this year strongly.  I would love to get a win in one of the last few events.
Q. If you were to get a win here, you would move very, very close to Francesco on The Race to Dubai.  How much is that on your mind?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Francesco is not on my mind.  He's way too far ahead for me.  No, I'm just concentrating like I said to finish the year strong.
Q. How pleased are you overall with a 67?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: I was very pleased the way I played the first 11 holes and thought I gave myself so many good chances.  I actually missed quite a few there.  But sort of a struggle coming in unfortunately, but 4-under is still a good score.
Q. Four of your five birdies came on the front nine.  Was it a little bit frustrating on the back nine when you know this is a good-scoring golf course?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Definitely.  Like I said, I just lost a little bit, loss of energy, loss of concentration out there.  You don't really need that.  Like you said, there's a lot of good birdie chances coming in and I didn't really take them.  Didn't hit good enough shots and didn't hole the putts I needed to.
Q. Obviously winning this event here a couple of years ago, what can you take from that now into the weekend knowing that you're in contention again?
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I can take a lot from it.  I know I've performed well in the past here.  I'll try to draw from that and hopefully I can keep playing well.  If I can keep from making bogeys or worse, I think I'll have a pretty about chance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT