THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2011
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You really are on a hot streak of form, two runners-up spots in your last three events. What's been the catalyst? What's driving this increase in your levels?   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: I've been struggling a little bit my swing the first couple of months of this year but I got it back and now I've got some confidence and just try to keep it good [].  
  
  Q. Bogey-free, a great round of golf, how are you enjoying the transition to links golf this week?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: I love it. I've only tried it a couple of times when I was an amateur but absolutely love links golf. It's really nice to be on such a great course.  
  
  Q. And in /TERPBLS of your Open Championship place, you secured that in trance last week, so the pressure is off. [] how much are you enjoying being in contention again, because it's something you're getting used to very often now?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, it was nice last week to be playing in front of great crowds, big crowds, get some good experience from that. Keep on learning a lot of things.   
  
  Q. Making a bit of a name for yourself home in Denmark at the moment, what's been the reaction to your exploits over the last few weeks?   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: A lot of nice comments have been made, yeah, I think it's just nice to play for my country and do something good.   
  
  Q. Tell us how good that was.   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: I played good, I hit a few bad drives but always in play, hit some great iron shots and didn't make any mistakes. Then holed some putts in the end. I had a few good ones in the start I missed, but I played really good, yeah.  
  
  Q. And it was a windy afternoon so to be flawless is an exceptional round, isn't it?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: It was windy sometimes, a little bit gusty out there, but it was nice.   
  
  Q. Confidence high?   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, very high.   
  
  Q. Tell me about these events, because I know your swing wasn't to your liking earlier on in the season after the wonderful time in South Africa, but recently you've just got it together?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I've been putting a lot better, also. That's one of the reasons but my swing is really getting where I want it to. It's nice to be back in the game and make some cuts and be in contention.   
  
  Q. Sounds all matter of fact, but I bet there's a lot of hard work, isn't there.   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, it's missed a lot of cuts in a row and of course that makes me go to the driving range and hit a lot of balls and practise, yeah.  
  
  Q. Does that make you appreciate what you are currently enjoying all the more, because you know what the bad days are like?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I know what the bad days are like, so yeah, I'm really happy to be here in contention and try to make some birdies tomorrow.  
  
  
  
  Q. What did you expect of this season?   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: I mean, I had my goals. It was getting in the Top 60 so I can get to The Race to Dubai and then win a tournament. I've played really good. I had my chances but hopefully I will win one tournament this year.   
  
  Q. Have those goals been revised just a little as you've gone on like this? Are you expecting a victory at some stage?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: I'm not expecting it. I know there are so many good guys out here, good players. It's tough, you have to have a great week to win. I'm trying to keep practise and do that and hopefully I will get there.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on links golf?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: I love it. I played it a few times asa an amateur but I love link golf.  
  
  Q. How does it compare to what you played as an amateur?   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: This is a little more wide from the tee but there are some tricky greens and tricky run-offs. If it gets a little more windy, it will be a great test.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on next week?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: I'm looking forward to it. I'll take this tournament first and then we'll see next week.  
  
  Q. Are you easily able to do that? Because Chris Wood, his focus is entirely trying to get into next week and others are just so excited about next week, it's hard to really pin themselves down and focus this week. Where are you?   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: No, of course I'm really excited, but I'm trying to keep my head here in this tournament and try to make some birdies and be up there and make a good result here, that would be really, really nice.   
  
  Q. What links courses did you play?   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: I played Royal Aberdeen and Porthcawl, I think it was.   
  
  Q. Good ones?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Great ones. Really tough. But this is lovely here. It's beautiful here.   
  
  Q. And these results, do you feel like you belong now, European Tour?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, I think I'm getting there.   
  
  Q. It takes a while, doesn't it, to get used to it and the change from Challenge Tour and stuff like that.   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, there's so many good players out here. You have to get used to that and you have to practise hard to be here. So that's what I'm trying.   
  
  Q. Anything changed in the last few weeks?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Of course, when you finish second, you know you can be up there, and that's another thing, that's always a nice thing to know. Yeah, of course.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT