ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2011
Thorbjorn Olesen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A birdie, birdie finish to get you nicely into the clubhouse, right there near the top of the leaderboard. You must be pleased?   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, one shot off the lead and I played great today, hit many greens, and putting was solid, so yeah, got me a lot of confidence.  
  
  Q. You've had very good finishes this year and today you had that stunning finish, a couple of second-place finishes. At the moment, you're pushing for the Rookie of the Year, aren't you?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: I don't know about that but I'm just trying to play the tournament the best I can. I've had some struggles with my swing and not got the confidence but it's getting back now, so it's really nice to be out there.  
  
  Q. How important of a role has Anders Hansen had to play with your game?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: In a sense, not really that much, I've talked a lot to Søren Hansen and Thomas Björn has helped me. So I think there are some good Danish guys and I'm just happy they want to help me.  
  
  Q. They see you as a great chance of the talent for the future of Denmark, and obviously you've settled really well into playing on The European Tour. How satisfying is that for you?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Oh, it's been nice. That second place got me a little bit calmed down. I had some bad finishes and missed a lot of cuts in a row, so it's nice to be back there and just keep trying to play good.  
  
  Q. What are your hopes for the rest of the week?   
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: I mean, just every shot -- take every shot, try to hole some putts and just be up there and maybe have a chance.   
  
  Q. Your thoughts on the course, it's quite a tricky one?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: Yeah, this is the best course we have played the whole year I think. Great, great course. The 7th is a little bit tricky but there are so many good holes and you get under pressure on almost every hole. I think it's really nice.  
  
  Q. You birdied 8 and 9, must be nice to finish on those?  
 THORBJØRN OLESEN: 8 was a tough hole, when we played there, there was a lot of strong wind against us. Hit a great 3-iron and holed a long putt, so it was nice.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT