THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2000
Chris Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







CHRIS JOHNSON: I had a good time. The course is in really good condition, and it's not
firming up as much as I thought it would. I think they are plenty firm, but it's very
fair. I'm just happy to be where I am. I didn't hit the ball very well coming in and I
didn't save some pars -- I didn't save par on 14 and 15, but was able to save par on 17
and 18; so that kind of makes me finish with a little better taste in my mouth. I'm very
blessed to finish where I am and I'm very thankful that I have a lot of people praying for
me to make sure I -- make sure things are going well. Bogeyed the 1st hole. Hit into the
trees on the right and chipped out. Didn't hit it really -- I had a pitch on the green;
left it a little short and nearly made the putt, but didn't. The putt was about 20 feet.
No. 4, I hit an 8-iron to probably about 25, 28 feet and I made that for birdie. No. 6, I
3-putted, probably from 30 feet. On the back side, I hit into the bunker on the left on
No. 10; hit 6-iron to about 12 feet and made that for birdie. And on 11, I hit the green
in two, 2-putted about 35 feet. Bogeys on 14 and 15. 14, I hit to the left of the green
and pitched on, had about, I don't know, maybe a 15-footer; did not make that. On 15, I
had 9-iron to the green. Buried it in the bunker and got it onto about 15 feet and didn't
make that one, either. So those are my bogeys. 

Q. When you see Karrie up there with an 8-shot lead, what kind of approach do you take?
Pat Hurst was in here earlier and saying, "Hey, we are playing for second place at
this point." 

CHRIS JOHNSON: That's basically -- that's what you're thinking of. The main thing is I
just have to play my own game. I want to make sure that I don't allow someone else's game
to influence mine. I had a great time out there. Karrie played great. It was fun seeing
her hit iron shots at the pin all day long. And I love seeing excellence, and I think it's
good for the tournament. The gallery loves to see excellence, and I think it makes
everyone play a little bit better and concentrate a little bit more. It was a good group
to play with. I don't think -- it's just a matter of, you know, you can't make up --
you're not going to make up all those shots on the first hole. You just go out there and
play your round, and basically everyone else is playing for second place, but you want to
go out there and place play your best.

Q. What's going through your mind when the course is playing so tough, and then you
have a player basically, with tap-in birdies, almost, three straight holes. What does that
do to someone who is playing with her? 

CHRIS JOHNSON: I think that goes back to the saying that you hear people say every now
and again. "Oh, this course isn't so tough if you hit it in the fairway; if you hit
it on the green, it's not so tough." And it gets really tough when you hit it in the
rough and you miss the green into the rough. She's hitting some really good shots. She's
hitting some courageous shots. When you're playing with confidence, you're playing a
different course to some extent than the rest of us, maybe.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT