MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 17, 2009
Jarkko Nieminen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. NALBANDIAN/J. NIEMINEN
  6-3, 6-7, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. You must be been extremely happy with the way you stuck it out in this second tiebreak. Looked like it was all over there for a minute or two.  
 JARKKO NIEMINEN: Yeah, I started to play much better from that on. I thought I could get the momentum in the third set as well. I had breakpoint in the first game of the third set and I didn't take it.  
 Then from 1-All, next three games are really tight and I lost them. I won one of them, but still, I couldn't get the momentum again.  
 I started to move better when I was down 5-3 in the second set. I felt I was kind of slow in the beginning. I got slow start and my legs were not moving as fast a usual. Usually I can always trust my fast legs, but today I felt that I was a little bit slower than yesterday, obviously.  
 David was playing with good tempo as well, so that made it even tougher to get into the game. But then finally when I was almost losing the match I got my legs moving and finally won the second set.  
 Yeah, just lost those many tight games in the beginning, and then in the end he was better. He was moving better and controlling the game. I felt that I couldn't -- I was just trying to hang in there, but I couldn't control the game anymore.  
 He really deserved to win in the end.  
  
  Q. What about the tiebreak? A little nerve-wracking, the tiebreak. A couple net cords that helped you in th end.  
 JARKKO NIEMINEN: Yeah, I had good records this week in tiebreakers. I lost -- last week in Brisbane I lost second round 0-6, 7-6, 7-6 against Tsonga, but it was a good match.  
 This week I got those tiebreakers back. I won really tight tiebreaks, like 11-9. I felt I had really good chances to win the whole match after that, just I just couldn't keep the level.  
  
  Q. You feel it's been a good preparation for the Australian?  
 JARKKO NIEMINEN: It's very good. I needed these wins, and I got a lot confidence from this week. I really feel good, and I don't feel physically tired. So I have to play Monday which is -- Monday is very soon.  
 Still, I feel that I'm able to play well on Monday there. Just take an easy day, hit once there in Melbourne tomorrow, and take this confidence prosecute here with me.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT