NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 3, 2003
Patrik Elias
Scott Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Patrik, what do you guys have to do better offensively to get more chances?

PATRIK ELIAS: We still got our chances both games.  And in the first two games, we won in home.  We pressured them a little more and didn't give them much time, and we got a lot of turnovers off of that and just sustained the pressure.  We've got to do that.  We've got to be in their face.  I think it's going to put us in a better rhythm.

Q.  Scott, what would you say the mental state of the team is right now?

SCOTT STEVENS:  It's fine.  It's 2-2, so I don't think there is any reason to push a panic button.  It's back to our building.  Like I said last night, it's not over yet.  Nothing's over. 

Q.  Scott, did you think you guys were a little too hesitant in the Final ten minutes and then into overtime?

SCOTT STEVENS:  I don't know.  I don't even remember the last ten minutes, to be honest with you.  I don't think so.  I don't know.  That's the way the whole game went.  It was pretty much tight checking.  There wasn't a whole lot going on.

Q.  Scott, can you compare the play of the Devils in 1 and 2 and 3 and 4?

SCOTT STEVENS:  I don't know.  Maybe it's more what they're doing than what we're doing.  I'm not really sure if I have the answer.  They're a little more aggressive, and I don't know if we're  -- maybe we're not getting the forecheck as much as we like and getting as much pressure on their D as we like.

Q.  Do you feel that you have to step up physically as a team?

SCOTT STEVENS:  Well, I guess we want to run around and create space.  We've got to play smart positionally.

Q.  Patrik, going against a butterfly goaltender.  Do you think you guys got too used to shooting high?

PATRIK ELIAS:  We got a lot of goals being in front of him.  He's a pretty big goalie, so we do have to shoot high and try to make him commit to a bigger puck area.  We've just got to put them in.

Q.  Patrik, Pat Burns said you did not make Giguere work enough, you've got to get a little more excited Thursday night.  Not you, but the team.  Do you agree with that?

PATRIK ELIAS:  I don't think there wasn't any of us that weren't excited.  We're in the Stanley Cup Finals.  We've got to be.  It will be nice to be at home obviously.  It's fine.  It's been working for us in the first two rounds.  I thought we did a better job in Game 4, but we won't have a problem with that at home.  I think it's going to be a lot better.

Q.  What about you, Scott?

SCOTT STEVENS:  This is the Stanley Cup Finals, so I think we're excited.  I thought we had a really good first and we were moving the puck and controlling the play a fair bit and getting the dumps we wanted to. 

Q.  What about making Giguere work hard enough?

SCOTT STEVENS:  I guess you need to get shots and traffic, and that's the only way they can work harder.

Q.  Patrik, two days between games, is that good for you guys after travel?

PATRIK ELIAS:  I think so.  Obviously we're not used to that long of a travel.  But it's no question, especially now in the series.  It's good to have an extra day off.  It will be a break mentally and physically and regroup and be ready for Thursday.

Q.  Patrik, even if you get like a quarter or a half of Joe Nieuwendyk back, meaning 50 percent or so, at some point in this series, how much would that mean to you?

PATRIK ELIAS:  Obviously, we know that he's a big part of our team.  It would be great to have him back.  But you've got to have him healthy and make sure that he's healthy to stay in a game.  He's been one of the best faceoff men in the league, and we know that we haven't been doing as good as we like to on the faceoffs.  So it would help, no question.

Q.  Scott, do you wish you could just start on the second period since there hasn't been a goal in the first period?

SCOTT STEVENS:  Anything can happen.  Things can change quickly.  I don't think so.  I don't think it's for lack of getting chances.  It's been tight checking and good goaltending that makes it tough to get anything in the net 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT