NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SENATORS v DUCKS
May 30, 2007
Keaton Ellerby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PIERRE MCGUIRE:  Come on up, Keaton.  We have to get some things on the record first, so you have to sit down here.  Okay, there's some scouts in the room and there's some inquiring minds.  So we need to know, how tall are you? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  Six-four-and-a-half.  I think the last time I was measured.  So I don't know what some people - some people were saying I was six-two or something.  But, no, I'm six-four-and-a-half. 
 PIERRE MCGUIRE:  How do you explain that huge growth spurt from five-eight? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  I really can't explain it.  Going into my bantam draft year I was probably one of the smallest kids going into it.  But after that, I just - I took off and haven't really stopped since. 
 PIERRE MCGUIRE:  Well, we know Shane Doan is one of your cousins and we know he's somebody that you work out with and talk to a lot.  What does Shane share with you in terms of making the NHL and how to best do it? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  Well, he just tells me, like everybody else, work hard and just do what you've done to get you to this point so far.  Just be the hardest-working person in practice and in the gym and just do everything to the best of your ability. 

 Q.  Do you use your stick as viciously as Pronger does? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  Yeah, I've been called a couple times for some stick penalties.  But I don't know.  I like modeling my game after him.  He's an unbelievable defenseman.  And I like to think of myself as a pretty gritty guy, so, yeah, I think I use my stick pretty good. 

 Q.  The Kamloops Blazers have a legendary tradition, if you think to the coaches like Hitchcock and Hay, and you think about the great players, Darryl Sydor and Scott Niedermayer and you look at all the great players that have come out of that, what's it like to have that kind of a legacy? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  It's unbelievable playing with Kamloops.  There's such a great tradition there with all the Memorial Cup wins they've had and all the great players that have come out of there.  I just feel honored to play there and be a part of that club and just be a part of the tradition that is there. 

 Q.  Do you ever get it into with Alzner? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  No, not really.  We've talked about fighting a couple times, but it's never really happened.  So, yeah, me and Karl are pretty good when we play against each other.  We don't really see much of each other on the ice.  But when we do play against each other, it's fun. 
 PIERRE MCGUIRE:  Thank you for this.  Enjoy the game tonight and enjoy Columbus. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT