ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2011
Matt Bettencourt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Matt, let's start with the up and down there at 18. What a great up and down from behind that green. I'm sure when you saw that third shot go over the back of the green, you thought to yourself, oh, no. 
 MATT BETTENCOURT: Yeah, this is definitely a challenge. It's a difficult shot that took a little bit of luck. But I was able to bounce it up there and get it to within three feet.

 Q. 4-under par on this golf course -- and you've got to be honest, man, it's me, just me and you talking -- how much different was this golf course playing today than on Tuesday and Wednesday with the wind coming out of the north in the first round? 
 MATT BETTENCOURT: Yeah, it was unbelievable. I've never played this golf course out of the north. So it presents a different set of challenges on some holes. And there are quite a few holes on the back nine that are playing really long right now.

 Q. I don't know if you noticed, but one of the rules officials is actually hiding from a bunch of the guys on the back nine because he thought the forecast was only 8- to 10-mile-an-hour winds. Was it blowing harder than that when you teed off? 
 MATT BETTENCOURT: Yeah, it's been 15 to 20 consistently all day, sometimes even harder. This back nine right now is really playing brutal. You've got to hold on, and par is a great score out there.

 Q. You get to a hole like number 15. That is 490 yards. They've got the tees back into the wind. You've got 202 into that hole and you hit it to five and a half feet. First, take me through that hole. 
 MATT BETTENCOURT: Yeah, the hole before was playing 220, and I was trying to hit a 4-iron wide about 190 and get it back there and roll it back. 
 Hit a good shot on the par-3, 14. And 15 I basically had the same kind of shot and just nailed a 4-iron that was probably playing closer to 230. I saw it land on the middle and kind of funnel back there. It was a great feeling to get up there and see it about five feet from probably the hardest hole on the golf course.

 Q. You got the first birdie there of the day. There have only been three. You are probably the one guy that's going to find that rules official and say, I love the set-up, brother. 
 MATT BETTENCOURT: Yeah, it is what it is. It's tough. It's a challenging golf course. It's funny because when I made birdie there, Ryan Palmer told me that's a skin. So it's definitely a tough hole. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT