U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2014
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. SHARAPOVA/S. Lisicki  6-2, 6-4   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Seemed like your serve wasn't there for a while.  MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, it wasn't.  But it felt like I needed to compensate with other parts of my game, and I think I did a good job of that.  Because she's a very dangerous and tricky opponent, and she's capable of playing really well at the slams and always raising her level against the top players. That was something I was very well aware of.  I thought I stepped up to the challenge.   Q.  What do you think about your next matchup?  MARIA SHARAPOVA: She's having a really good summer so far.  She's really raising her level to where she wants it to be.  Although we haven't played in a while, we have played against each other many times.  No secrets on our games.  We've been on the tour for many years, so I expect a tough match, a physical match. She always makes you hit a lot of balls, gets a lot of balls back.  Yeah, it's going to be a tough match.   Q.  It was a pretty intense match tonight.  Both of you were fighting a lot.  What do you think made the difference?  MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, against a big server and an aggressive player like her, it's sometimes just a matter of a few points.  Return is obviously very important. I thought I did a good job of getting some of her good serves back and making her hit an extra ball. Of course, it's always tense because she's capable of playing really good tennis.  In the end I was just happy I was able to break her back in that game.   Q.  What did you make of the back and forth between her and the chair umpire over whether she was getting coaching help?  MARIA SHARAPOVA: I actually had no idea what the talk was about.   Q.  Do you think coaching should be allowed at Grand Slam tournaments?  MARIA SHARAPOVA: I'm happy with the way it is right now.   Q.  How is your level right now?  MARIA SHARAPOVA: I'm happy I finished the match in two sets.  I had a very tough, physical, two and a half hour match a couple days ago, so I was glad I was able to finish this one a bit quicker and give myself more time to recover for the next one.   Q.  So many upsets so far.  Does that have any impact on you when you see other top players going out early?  MARIA SHARAPOVA: Quite honestly, I have to follow my own path.  Of course, you know, I'm not someone that doesn't look at the draw.  I usually follow the draw.  I enjoy watching matches occasionally when I have some time, some free time. I did see some of the results.  Of course, that's why we always play the matches.  You always have favorites going into the tournament.  The reason there's so many players is because we have to go out and win those matches and compete. There's a reason everybody puts the net up in the morning.  It's for us to go out and challenge ourselves.  There have been a few upsets, and certainly happy that I got through today.   Q.  Any upset that surprised you the most?  MARIA SHARAPOVA: The most?  Not really sure, no.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT