MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 11, 2014
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/S. Halep
  1‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You repeated the title in Stuttgart, but Madrid was like a new place to win.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, it's a tournament that I have not won before, but in the last couple of years I've gotten closer.   So I was happy that I had another chance this year.   
Yeah, it's very meaningful to win a tournament for the first time.  
   
 Q.   Simona was very complementary on the way you played.   For me it was much more important to see how relieved you were at the end.   Even though you almost achieved everything in your life, it was very important for you to win this tournament, and not only this tournament but so many others.   What is this love that you have for tennis?   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   As I said in the ceremony, I don't take these moments for granted because I know what it's like to be out and injured and trying to find your way back just to play tennis.  
I really enjoy playing this sport.   I like the work that I put in, and I want to get the opportunities to be in the final.   So it doesn't matter if I'm playing on the moon or in Madrid, to be in the final position is an honor.  
I want to take my chance as much as I can, so of course I'm so happy to win a tournament.   
   
 Q.   We also saw you giving nice words to Dinara Safina.   Let's saw health is the most important thing.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yes, of course.   I think for any athlete in any different sport, you know, maintaining your health, and as you get older, recovery is so important.   
You've seen so many great players go out with injuries and they can't compete.   So it makes me extra happy that I was able to find a way through injuries and not playing for many months to get myself in these titles again.   
   
 Q.   I just want to know about your relation with Sven, who seems to be a very competitive person as well.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   Do you think this relation will last many more years as it can be?   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Well, I certainly can't tell the future.   You never know.   But from the first time we had our first meeting I really liked what he said.   Usually the transition with a new coach takes a little bit of time.   It felt quite seamless in the partnership.   
Really happy with the team that we've all created, because everyone gives so much effort and every day works so hard for those moments, I guess.  
I'm really proud of everyone.   Just doesn't take one person, it takes a whole team, so...  
   
 Q.   Do you measure the success of cooperation with them...   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Of course.  
   
 Q.   ...on your titles, or how do you measure that?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Of course I do.   You work in many different areas with each one of them.   It's really a team effort.  
I know it's just me going out court and them sitting, but every person's involvement in the team is really important.  
It's just as important to invest in the right people in your career.   From someone that takes care of your body to someone that takes care of your fitness and the coaching, it's everyone's effort that ultimately comes together.  
   
 Q.   How are you going to celebrate tonight?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Get on a plane to Rome.   They better have some champagne for me.   I need a drink.  
   
 Q.   We saw some of your matches with not so many people.   We know the tickets are sold, but what would you say to Madrid's public?   Only Nadal, or it's okay in any case?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I don't pay attention to that.   I'm happy to be in the draw and playing.   I'm happy to be on any court that I'm given the opportunity to play on.  
The support is very meaningful, but this is quite a big stadium.   The lower part of the stadium is very spread out, so if there is no one in the first few seats it seems like it's empty.   That's the construction of the stadium, and that maybe should have been changed a long time ago.  
Certainly too late now.   
   
 Q.   Is it special for to you win a title on clay?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yes, and to win a big title.   All of the players were here.   It was a really tough competition.  
Yeah, and I've come really close to winning a title in Madrid, so of course it's very important.  
   
 Q.   After winning two titles, will you try to change the preparations before Roland Garros?   Will you try to play as much as you can in Rome?   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, my next tournament is Rome, and once I'm in the draw, I dedicate myself to that tournament.   
   
 Q.   Sometimes it's hard to see you smile, but in Madrid you are happy.   You are having in a good time in general apart from winning?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I think I was smiling a lot on the court, so I think you can see I'm happy.   (Laughter.)  
Thanks, guys.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT