MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2014
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/C. McHale
  6‑1, 4‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the second set.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, I didn't create any chances for myself on her serves.   I don't think I had a break point until ‑‑ in that second set I didn't have a breakpoint until I converted a break point in the third set.  
So I don't feel like I was doing much off of my return and putting any pressure on her and letting her dictate from the first point.  
That was really getting me in trouble.   
   
 Q.   You beat Christina McHale here last year in the second round.   Did you expect a match so complicated this time?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Well, after a really good start I didn't keep that level.   I didn't keep doing what I was doing.   I think I had a bit of a letdown.   
She's a good competitor.   She won't just give matches away.   She works really hard out there, and I think she showed that today.   
   
 Q.   The work with Sven is bringing you new things?   You feel more secure?   The objective is to beat Serena or just to be better by yourself?   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I think the objective from anyone that comes into a team for the first time, one, is to learn and observe, and then to work on things that can make you better.  
At this level of the game it's such a few little things that can make a big difference.   It's not that I hired him for a major change at this time in my career.  
It's more little things that ultimately add up and make you a better player.   
   
 Q.   In what way is it helpful for you to be able to have the coach on your side during the match compared to the times where that wasn't so?   Does it really help you?   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   In terms of?   
   
 Q.   Well, the coaches weren't always allowed to come and see you.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   You mean on the court?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, I don't think I actually‑‑ I'd prefer that there was no such rule because it's such an individual sport.   It really depends on you out there to figure out the situation.   
Of course when you come into a Grand Slam, no one is there to help you out.  
But if the system is there and you feel like you're having a bit of a letdown and you need that bit, it's not like he's going to come in and change so many things in that position.   It's more to give you that energy and give you a little bit of a different angle.  
What he sees from the side is maybe different than what you see playing there.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday we saw all the tennis family out there on the court.   Did you know Elena?   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Unfortunately I never had the chance to get to know her personally.   But despite that and despite not knowing her, I think it's a huge tragedy not just for the tennis world but as a human being to see somebody so close and see her as a competitor and as an athlete, that being healthy is such a huge part of her lifestyle and maintaining that.  
To see somebody have to fight for her life in a very quick amount of time is so sad.   It's just so eye‑opening when you hear those things.   You know, my prayers and everything are with her family.   I can imagine how difficult it is for them.   
   
 Q.   You are playing Sam or Garbine next.   Obviously you have played Sam a lot, and also you played Garbine I believe in Rome last year.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What do you expect from both?   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Well, either one I believe will be a tough match, and certainly have to raise my level for that occasion.  
Whoever I play, you know, as much as you focus on who is across the net, I prefer to focus on my game and my level.   I will really need to step it up for that next one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT