U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2018
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. SHARAPOVA/P. Schnyder
6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. At 5-1, what started to go a little bit wrong?  How did you right the ship in the tiebreak?
MARIA SHARAPOVA: I started making a lot of mistakes.  She became really consistent.  I think I just really wanted to finish it off, was just giving her a lot of free looks.
Q. Was it weird to be playing someone like that for the first time in a decade?
MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, I guess.  It all kind of comes back in memory.  She still has incredible hands, moves incredibly well for being out of the game for so long, still very competitive.  I was just saying it took me, like, 15 years to dropshot Patty Schnyder and win a point.  Doesn't happen that often against Patty.
Q. What were your thoughts of the new stadium?  Been a lot of talk of the noise.  Seems like there's an energy.
MARIA SHARAPOVA: There definitely is.  There's a little bit more noise than maybe some of the other stadiums that I've played at.  But I don't know, it's kind of part of the US Open.  You can't really shy away from noise if you want to be a champion in New York City, right?  I think you have to embrace it.  There's always an amazing amount of energy no matter what court you play on in New York in the evening.
Q. Do you like fans have an option to see the night session on two different courts?
MARIA SHARAPOVA: I feel like the Australian Open is doing that, as well, the events that are able to have a night session.  Yeah, I mean, I don't know if it comes from a revenue standpoint or if it comes from giving fans to see another night matchup.  The more tennis the better.
Q. Heading into the US Open, you didn't have that many matches.  How did you feel coming into here?  Any uncertainty?
MARIA SHARAPOVA: I feel like that's kind of been the story of this year, is coming into events with not enough matches.  I'm just trying to handle it the best way I can.  Grouping those matches on the clay was good.  Other than that, it's just kind of been like that for me, unfortunately, this year.
There's nothing that I'm really not doing to prevent that.  I'm doing the best that I can.  Yeah, just sometimes your body doesn't quite cooperate exactly the way you want it to.
Q. How do you feel your body reacted today?  Were you pleased with the level?
MARIA SHARAPOVA: I still have a lot of things to work on.
Q. Up next you have Cirstea.  Your thoughts on that?
MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, someone that plays extremely aggressive.  Sometimes you don't really know what you're going to get in a matchup like that.
But, look, for me I think just stepping away from who I'm playing, zoning in on what I need to improve on, that will be my focus.  There's quite a few things.
Q. 21-0 now in night sessions.  What is it about this tournament at night?
MARIA SHARAPOVA: I actually didn't grow up enjoying playing or actually being in New York City.  It was very intimidating as a teenager.  I've really embraced it I believe in the last decade or so.  Ever since my victory, I've loved using it.  I've learned how to use the energies.  No matter if you're up or down that the crowd possesses, is able to lift you up or falls hard for the underdog.  You feel like there's so many flows within a match from the crowd.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT