BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2013
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/M. Kirilenko
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   High quality match.   Played pretty well for the most part, don't you think?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah.   I think I made the first set a bit more difficult than it should have been.   You know, I felt like it could have been up 4‑0.  
And she's someone who has had a few comebacks in this tournament and really good results.   I think this is her best tournament yet.  
So, yeah, I stepped it up in the second set, you know.   First set was a little shady; second set was much better.  
   
 Q.   You want to talk about playing Caroline?   Played her Miami last year.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   It's been a while.   
   
 Q.   You had a tough one against her a couple years ago, but things have changed a lot since then.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, I mean, she's always a tough opponent.   You know, she's a grinder.   She makes you work really hard on the court and gets a lot of balls back, you know, and has a lot of different variety.   
You know, I certainly don't want to give her that time or those opportunities, because she's a really good player.  
   
 Q.   How much does it help having played through this tournament against a lot of other grinders?   I mean, you haven't had a lot of players giving you cheap points.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah.   Yeah, I have had to work for, you know, for all the points here, that's for sure.  
I also feel like, you know, in a way, in a couple of those matches I made my life a little more difficult than I should have been.   I was forcing a few of my errors.   
Today I was happy that, you know, I did a few things much better than I had to.   I really had to step it up today.  
   
 Q.   One of the things that Caroline had today was a lot of high balls, moon ball shots that were pushing...   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, I saw some of those points.   That was quite interesting.   
   
 Q.   What were your thoughts when that was going on?   It was like two‑minute‑long points.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, it was interesting shot selection.   I don't know.   You're not there, so when you're watching TV it seemed a little odd from the TV, but I'm sure there was a reason why during the point that was done.  
But they looked like they were really high and they all kept going in.   I was like, that's a really good effort.   I don't think I can do that.  
   
 Q.   When you've played against those kind of shots before, how do you make adjustments to try to deal with it?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Usually when your opponent has time to hit higher balls or a little bit of spin, that means it's your‑‑ I think you're giving them a bit more time to do that.  
I mean, I hope that against Caroline ‑‑ she's dangerous when she has the opportunities to open up court and she wants you running side to side.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever hit a moon ball and charged to the net like she was doing?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I didn't see that one.   
   
 Q.   Yeah, she did a couple of those.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   No.   Well, I mean, first of all, I don't charge to the net many times.   
   
 Q.   No, you don't.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   So let's start with that.   And then charge to the net with a high ball.   Oh, chances are pretty low.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember any match from the juniors when someone was consistently moon balling you all match long?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, I played a lot.   There are a lot of in the juniors, yeah.   There are a lot of them.   
But, yeah, I don't see any of them now, you know.   So, I mean, it's going to be a long day if you're doing that for a long period of time, you know.   
I mean, it's not a good mentality to have, when you're a junior especially.   You're kind of waiting for your opponents to make mistakes.   You're not the one that's forcing the play and making it.   
I feel like.   But what am I?   I'm not a coach or anything.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever hit a moon ball?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I'm sure I have, yeah.   I mean, a moon ball, yeah, but I haven't charged to the net after a moon ball.   (Laughter.)  
Q.Is it important for you to be No. 2?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Am I?   
   
 Q.   You'll be NO. 2 as of Monday.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Okay.   Great.   Yeah, it's nice.   It's better than 3, right?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT