ROGERS CUP
August 7, 2018
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. SHARAPOVA/S. Karatantcheva   
6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How satisfied are you with how you handled the conditions and the delays from last night?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA: I think it's always the same for both players.  After getting a good, quick start, maybe the delay wasn't exactly in my favor coming out on the court and having to wait for a long time.  Would have loved to finish last night to get a break today, but that's not how things work.  You have to adjust.  I think I did a good job of finishing the job today.   
 Q.  Obviously rain is part of the game and it happens.  Is it extra frustrating where there was a lot of back and forth?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA: I guess the weather is not something that anyone can control.  The players want to play.  The fans want to watch the tennis.  The tournament director and all the personnel on the court is hoping there's no drizzle.   
At the end of the day I think everybody understands it's for a player's safety.  A tournament is only better when you have healthy players competing.   
Yeah, it's not just frustrating for the players, I think it's a little bit of a waiting game.   
 Q.  There were a lot of close games last night, a little bit at the beginning, then you started to pull away.  What did you feel was working well with your game?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, I was aggressive.  I served well throughout the match.  I think I did everything a little bit better, especially towards the end of the match.   
I haven't played in a few weeks.  No matter what tournament or who you're playing against, you have to figure things out as you go.   
I think I did a good job of that today.   
 Q.  You talked about some of the Russian girls watching you practice.  You could play another one next.  Thoughts on either of your next opponents?  How much have you seen particularly Sakkari play?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, both great players.  Not just up-and-coming any more.  Have already established themselves on the tour.  Have done enough damage to be seeded in the events and making it to finals.   
Either way it's going to be a tough match.  I haven't played Kasatkina that match.  Sakkari in an exhibition match a few weeks ago.  Either way, a great opportunity.  I guess these are the kids, you'd like to say, I'll be playing against in the next few years, as they're much younger.   
But, yeah, all of them are eager and excited.  Always look forward to the matches, so...   
 Q.  You're a fellow SoulCycle-er.  What is your favorite move?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA: I haven't been back for a while.  I usually like to do it when I have a week or an injury in the upper body, which I faced a lot last year.  I was finding myself going out with some of my friends, doing classes.  I have a friend in New York who's a really good instructor over there.  I just always enjoy going to their classes.   
I don't know, it's fun.  Like from the first second, there's no warmup, you're going straight into it.  I find it amazing that people dedicate themselves to this 45 minutes from the word 'go'.  It's pretty spectacular to watch.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT