AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2013
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/O. Puchkova
  6‑0, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I take it the rust didn't hurt too much out there?
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, after a couple of close games and a few break points, certainly started to concentrate a bit better.   And, you know, I didn't want to focus on the fact I hadn't played a lot of matches.   Just wanted to focus on just what was ahead of me and really concentrate and, you know, be aggressive.   I also never faced her before again.
So it was just one of those matches where I didn't try to worry about her too much.   I just tried to, you know, think about what I had to do.

Q.   You have now gotten a double bagel win at every slam.   It completes your double bagel slam or calendar slam.   Is that something you're proud of?
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I don't think that's very relative to anything.   (Laughter.)
You know, when you're out there and playing, you're just focusing on every point and every game and trying to win as many as you can, and today was just a good scoreline.

Q.   You don't get any extra satisfaction out of 0‑0?
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   No, if you win 7‑6 in the third, you still won the match.

Q.   Did you take anything from today as far as what you want to work on maybe the next couple of days as far as you felt like you did something really well or that you weren't necessarily happy with?
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I always do, because it's tough to feel completely satisfied.   You always want to improve on things and work on certain things that you feel will help you in the later rounds certainly towards the end of the second week.
But, yeah, overall I was happy with the way I started, considering I didn't play any matches coming in.

Q.   You got through round one in 55 minutes without losing a game.   Must be a wonderful feeling for you.   Are you already aware that Venus Williams played five more minutes and lost only one game?
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I don't really think time matters and the scorelines; we both went out to play matches today and we both won.   That's the bottom line.

Q.   You aren't aware that you may have to face her in the third round?
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I have seen the draw, yes.   Thank you.

Q.   On the court it's cold or hot? 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Cold or hot? 

Q.   What's your feeling? 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   You were there.   Did you watch? 

Q.   Yeah, I watched. 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Was it cold or hot? 

Q.   Cold. 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Cold?   It's probably warmer when you're playing.   I felt pretty good, much colder than the other days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT