TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 24, 2012
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/A. Radwanska
  5‑7, 7‑5, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Obviously this was a late finish for you.   What was it like fighting out there?   Talk about the match.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, it was a very physical match.   Just came down just to a few points in the end.   I think today was an example of not playing my best tennis at all, fighting through it, hanging in there, and getting it done.  
I mean, obviously I didn't play the way I wanted to from the beginning.   I didn't break her once in the first set.   Just wasn't doing a lot on my returns; wasn't playing aggressive enough.  
But I fought and I won, so I'm happy.   
   
 Q.   You seemed to be disagreeing with your coach at points during the match.   Was that tactics from before the match or when he visited you?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I was just aggravated because I was making errors and wasn't doing the right things.   
In the heat of the moment got to blame it on someone, right?   It's never on yourself.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like at any time you were playing the match on your terms, or was that not until the very end of the match?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I mean, I feel like I was doing the right things.   Obviously there's a reason why she's No. 4 in the world.   She showed that today.   Her capability of anticipating where the ball goes and getting it back.   No matter if it's, you know, a hard shot or a lower slice that has no pace, she makes you work for it.  
She did until the end.   I found a way to get through those points against her which is not always easy, especially on a slower court like this.   But I managed.   
   
 Q.   So do you feel only happiness or is it more just relief that you got through it and a little bit of frustration trying to move on to get the level you want?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   No, not frustrated.   Just wondering when I'm going to go sleep.   Aren't we all?   
   
 Q.   Absolutely.   In the middle of the third set, I heard an impression that you shouted to Radwanska, Run run.   Was I mistaken, or it was your plan to force her to run?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Well, I was doing all the running, so, I mean, I wish I could watch the tape of this match.   I mean, there is not one time in the first set where I felt like I was controlling and moving forward.   
In that point, I finally like moved in and hit an approach shot winner for the first time, so I was just happy about that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT