ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2012
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LOUIS‑PHILIPPE DORAIS:   Thank you for joining this Tennis Canada conference call.   As you know, Maria Sharapova suffers from a bad stomach virus and had to withdraw from the Rogers Cup presented by National Bank.   Right away I will turn it over to Maria Sharapova for an opening statement.   Maria? 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Hi, everyone.   Thank you for joining the call today.   It's unfortunate I had to withdraw late this morning from a stomach illness that I had the last couple of days. 
I came to Montreal hoping that I would recover, but this morning I was still not very well, so I was not going to be able to practice which is, you know, not the best preparation in order to compete tomorrow.
You know, it's very unfortunate.   I was really looking forward to coming here and playing in front of my fans, but there is always a next time and I hope that time will come soon.
LOUIS‑PHILIPPE DORAIS:   Thank you very much, Maria.   Questions, please. 

Q.   It's too bad you had to withdraw, but also right after the Olympics and it's happening to many players.   Do you think the tournament happened too soon because the Olympics was very demanding? 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Well, I mean, yeah, in my particular situation I think it was just a coincidence, obviously.   It wasn't that my stomach was healthy enough to play.   I was already here and ready to play.   Obviously for anyone it's a very quick turnaround and after very big events in the last couple of months for all of us. 
We want to have the best preparation we can for the US Open, and this is a really big tournament for us.   Personally, I was here in order to play the tournament.   You know, I was ready but my body is just not ready for it.
So you kind of have to make the smart decisions for your body.

Q.   I understand that, but I mean, overall, do you think some tournaments should have been delayed maybe a week?   I understand your specific case, but I mean, overall do you think players think the tournament should be delayed a week or... 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I think this year we don't have much choice, unfortunately.   You know, it's once in four years that we have the Olympics, and it's one of those things that we have so many events during the year already, but of course we all want to be part of the Olympics, as well, in that experience.   It's very important for us.
But I think, you know, everyone's situation, like you said, is different, but I don't think anything could have been done in terms of scheduling.

Q.   Is that the first time ever that something like that happened to you, having to pull out from a tournament?
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   In terms of the stomach virus, yes.   I haven't had something like this since I can remember. 
So, yeah, for me it's something that it was something I was hoping I could recover faster than I did, but I'm certainly not ready to compete yet.

Q.   Do you feel that by any means your practice time could be shored up in the next few weeks before the US Open?
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   No, I think this is a matter of just a few days.   Obviously tomorrow I would have had to start the tournament.   For this particular tournament, I'm just not ready. 

Q.   I was just wondering, were you affected by this illness at the Olympic Games in your final against Serena?
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I started feeling it, feeling a little bit something the day before, but it wasn't as bad as it's been the last couple of days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT