LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
August 1, 2012
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/S. Lisicki
  6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Are you satisfied with your performance today?   Do you think you're able to get a medal in this Olympic Games?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I was really happy I was able to beat her today.   Obviously losing to her a few weeks ago, I was not really happy with the way that I played, so I wanted to change that result.   
Even though I didn't play my best tennis exactly, I was really happy that I got through it and I stepped up when I had to and tried to create opportunities and take them.   
   
 Q.   You and Novak Djokovic both struggled today.   Do you think you can reach the medal?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Well, I think everybody has a different path and you face different types of opponents.   
It's not an easy event here.   You're facing difficult opponents, back‑to‑back days, so it's not only just playing, it's physical as well.   The recovery is very important.   
As far as the level, obviously the goal is always to try to make sure that the level goes higher with every match because it only gets tougher with every match.   The next round is going to be tougher than the previous one.   So that's how you try to look at it, just try to improve a little bit with every match.   
   
 Q.   You spoke about the recovery.   Kim had an easy game today.   Most difficult for you.   Is it an obstacle for tomorrow?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I mean, I'm experienced enough to know how to recover.   It's not the first time I'm playing a tournament where I have to play back‑to‑back days and recover from a tough match.   I've certainly improved on that a lot, more than I maybe had being in the same situation a few years ago.   
   
 Q.   I think you never played each other on grass.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   No, I don't think we have.   
   
 Q.   What does that change?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Well, I mean, there's no secrets going into the match tomorrow.   We've been on the tour for many years.   We faced each other many times before, so we know each other's games quite well.   
Yes, it's our first meeting on grass.   No, look, the experience she has, she's such a tough competitor, such a great mover.   I mean, she has so many great qualities as a tennis champion.   It's always nice to face against her, especially at this stage of an event like the Olympics.   
   
 Q.   It's almost the end of her career.   Ana Ivanovic says she deserves to win the gold medal because of she almost stops playing tennis.   I guess this is not what you think.   
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I think everybody in the draw is competitive.   You know, you're out there to try to win the match no matter what situation your opponent is in.   
If we felt like this, we probably shouldn't even come to the event.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT