ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 10, 2011
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/B. Jovanovski
  6-1, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What was more difficult, the wind or your opponent?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, I expected my opponent to play well today, because she's someone that's dangerous. Although she's a qualifier, she's someone, you know, that's moving up and young and eager and has beaten, you know, good players before.
 You know, she's on her way up, so I knew that that was gonna be a dangerous round, knowing she played a few matches already and this was my first match. 
 So I was happy with the way I played in the first set, and then I was up and down a little bit in the second. But overall I thought, for a good match, it was good.

 Q. Can you talk about the wind? You were having trouble obviously with the serve and all the service breaks in the second set. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah. You know, the conditions I think were tough for everyone today. It's not always the best tennis when, you know, when you're facing those conditions.
 But I think it's -- it goes both ways; not just for yourself but also for the opponent. So I think it's just a matter of who handles it better, who adjusts and makes adjustments at the right time. The sooner, the better. 

 Q. Where's your game at? Where are you at compared to where you want to be?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, my goal is always to improve no matter where you are in your career, whether you feel like, you know, you're playing really well or, you know, you feel like you can, you know, you've had better days.
 So I always, you know, no matter how good or bad I feel, I always look to improve. That's really my philosophy. I never consider anything to be perfect. You know, I always have certain goals. That keeps you going, you know, keeps you motivated. 

 Q. Is there anything you would have done differently today?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Um, I think, you know, obviously, you know, I had some chances earlier in the second set, and not taking those, I think that really gave her a little bit of confidence. And against an opponent, you know, like her, you know, that didn't have the best first set, I think, you know, she kind of gains a little bit more confidence and starts swinging a little bit more. That can be dangerous, which it kind of became. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT