WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2011
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/M. Sharapova
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you talk a bit about the difficulties of playing a lefty. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Uhm, yeah. Well, she used that to her advantage a lot today. Uhm, obviously there are a lot more righties on the tour than lefties. This was the second lefty I played in the tournament. 
 But, yeah, besides that, she played a terrific match. 

 Q. Can you elaborate on that. What was so difficult about what she showed today?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, you know, she was hitting really powerful and hitting, you know, winners from all over the court. She made a defensive shot into an offensive one. 
 And, yeah, you know, just kind of laid on a lot of those shots. I think she was just more aggressive than I was, hit deeper and harder, and got the advantage in the points. 

 Q. Did you recognize a bit of yourself in her, playing completely without fear?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, she has a very powerful game, so it's not unexpected. When she uses that, that's her strength. That's how she wins matches, when she goes for her shots, and they're very flat. 
 Today, like I said, she created offensive opportunities from tough positions on the court. Sometimes it's just too good. 

 Q. She was causing more problems for you with her left-handed serve than you were causing for her with your serve. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah. Uhm, she served quite hard. Her second serve was, uhm, pretty big as well. She was going for it, for the second serve. 
 And, yeah, I felt like, you know, I could have reacted a little bit better, you know, on those serves. But, yeah, you know, she placed the ball really well. I think that's also quite important. 

 Q. What did you make of your performance today? 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, besides the fact that I lost, I think this is a big step for me, being here in the final. You know, feel like I'm improving this year. That gives me a tremendous amount of confidence for the rest of the year. 
 Yeah, considering that I hadn't been past the fourth round in a few years, this gives me a lot of confidence.

 Q. You didn't have that much trouble breaking her four times, five times, whatever it was, but on your own service games you weren't doing what you wanted to do. Talk a little bit about that. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, I think that just all comes down to her being more aggressive and taking her chances a little bit more. Maybe I wasn't as ready after the serve as I should have been, and she just got the first good hit. I was always kind of late. 

 Q. What, if anything, surprised you about her today in terms of being on the stage of the Wimbledon final for the first time, something you experienced before, and how she performed? 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, she performed incredible. You know, sometimes when you don't know what to expect and you don't know how you're gonna feel, sometimes you play your best because you have that feeling of nothing to lose. 
 You know, she went for it, absolutely. 

 Q. You've played now all the members of that generation, Wozniacki, Azarenka, Radwanska. Can you talk about her strengths compared to the other ones. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I think she's a much more powerful hitter, she has bigger strokes, and I would say probably a better serve, yeah. 

 Q. Looking back at your performance today, any part you would like to go back and improve upon?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Little bit of everything, I guess. I just think I didn't do much with the first ball or, uhm, when I had a good return or I hit a good serve, I just found myself late. 
 Uhm, I think a few things here and there I could improve, absolutely. 

 Q. You lost five serves out of eight. Once you saved a break with an ace. Wasn't your serve really the problem today in a way?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Uhm, I think there were a lot of things that I could have done better besides the serve. When we were in the points, I wouldn't say I won every single point. I think I could have done a much better job. 
 You know, it's also about the serve and the first ball, the return and the first ball, and she was just doing that a lot better than I was.

 Q. Also playing against someone so powerful, there was no way that you could try to change a little bit the pace? You were hitting both so strong, and then you were missing before. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, thanks (laughter). Is that a question? 

 Q. The question is if you didn't think you could change pace or do something a little different instead of just hitting hard. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, I mean, this is grass-court tennis. I'm not really the type that changes pace. I know you're an Italian reporter. I don't have a Francesca Schiavone slice or her topspin on the forehand. (Laughter.) 
 But I like my game just the way it is. Just today it just came a little short. 

 Q. We've been going through an interesting period where the slam winners have been on the older side. Do you think this in some way represents a breakthrough? Do you think that younger generation is going to finally step up to slam titles?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Uhm, yeah. I guess it's a good story (laughter). I don't know how else to say it. 
 I guess it's how it happened. Of course you're always going to see a younger generation rise up. There's always going to be a generation one after the next. Ultimately they're going to step up at one point. It happened to be in this tournament. 
 You know, we'll see whether that continues for the years to come. I mean, for this tournament, certainly, yeah. 

 Q. Would you consider this a baby step in the comeback getting to the final, or is it a big step?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: It's a big step considering that, as I've said, my results here in the last few years haven't been that good. It's a big step because my game is improving, and it's a big step because it gives me a tremendous amount of confidence going forward. 
 We still have many tournaments in this year and the next and the following. Uhm, you know, I just want to be a better player and I want to keep working.

 Q. Do you think you would have made it to the finals without Thomas Hogstedt this year?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: This year? I don't know. You know, I made changes in my team. I'm very happy with the changes I've made. He's helped me a lot. Yeah, I look forward to continue the work with him.

 Q. Is it a problem that there's so few lefties around, and how do you prepare for them?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Uhm, yeah, you know, as I mentioned, there are a lot more righties than lefties. You just have to be a little bit more righty, I guess, and get used to it faster.

 Q. Has today made you even more determined to win Grand Slams again?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I'm determined no matter what. You know, I love playing at this stage. As a tennis player, I guess that's the dream, to be playing in the final stages of the Grand Slams and obviously hoping to win them. 
 But, yeah, I would have loved to turn that match around, but it didn't happen today. Maybe it will happen tomorrow.

 Q. After a point, you often go to the back and seem to commune with yourself and have a quiet moment. Are you actually thinking about stuff, What am I going to do now? 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I hope I'm thinking. 

 Q. So you're not just getting Zen and resting?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, I think we're always thinking, unless your Buddha or something. 
 Yeah, I'm thinking and I'm just concentrating, just being positive, I guess. 

 Q. If there was anything you could change about the match today, aside from the outcome, what would that be?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Uhm, I think when I broke back those couple of times in the second set, I could have taken advantage of that and I didn't. 
 Yeah, I think that could have helped things and maybe changed the momentum a little bit.

 Q. Do you feel like taking a vacation or getting back on court tomorrow?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Uhm, I've been on the road for quite a few weeks. I'm actually happy to be going back home. But it would be nice to just put the racquet down for a few days. It's always good, because then you get that feeling of wanting it back. 
 But, yeah, I think we've been on the road for over two months, so it will be nice to have a nice, simple home life. 

 Q. Did you have any problems in the court with the mosquitoes?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: One got in my eye. Other than that, I was okay. I don't think they're mosquitos. I think they're something else. 

 Q. They're little bugs. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I know they're little (laughter). 

 Q. You're still only 24. Do you consider yourself closer to the younger generation or the older?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Based on the questions I'm receiving, it seems like I'm going towards the older (laughter). 
 Uhm, I don't know. It's not something I really think about. But, uhm, I think, you know, I achieved great success when I was quite young, so I think for many people - including myself - I've been on the tour for many years. 
 So they see me almost as a veteran that has been there for many, many years. I think if someone had that same success and was 21, 22, they'd also be considered on the older side. 
 But I don't really think about that. 

 Q. What are your thoughts about Petra's future? And when the tour is at full strength with Kim Clijsters and the Williams sisters back, where do you think she might fit in?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: She's a Grand Slam champion. She has a tremendous amount of potential to go even further and achieve many great things. If she keeps playing like that and keeps her level up, absolutely. She has a great game for it, yeah. 

 Q. Obviously there was a lot of excitement at seeing a brand-new champion. Did you sense the goodwill there was towards you after the whole injury thing to come back and complete the whole fairytale?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: You know, I don't really see this as a fairytale. Even if I would have won it, it's still a lot of hard work. It's not that these results and getting to the final comes out of thin air. 
 I absolutely appreciate the support. I've been a participant in Wimbledon for many years. I enjoy coming back every year. And seeing the fans get so excited about our sport and the tennis I think really brings out the best in us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT