SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 24, 2011
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/P. Martic
  6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How are you feeling?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Good. Great. 

 Q. When was the last time you played in Miami?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Three years ago.

 Q. That's what I thought. How does it feel to be back?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Way too long.
 Feels really good. This is one of my favorite events. It's crazy that I've missed it this many years because of injuries. 
 So I'm just so happy to get back on that court today and just I love playing in front of the crowd. They're so enthusiastic. They love their sports and have that Latin flavor about them. 
 You know, it's fun.

 Q. How is your shoulder?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Doing good. Yeah, stable.

 Q. Are you healed?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Healed? Tough to say an athlete is healed, but, yeah, I'm doing really well. Thank you.

 Q. You are pretty popular in Asia. Can you talk a little bit about how you felt when you heard about the Japan earthquake?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, it was a tragedy. You know, you still see all the coverage in the papers and on video. It's crazy to think that something like that could just happen so quickly and destroy so many lives, so many emotions. 
 Japan is one of my favorite places to visit, to go to. I've had incredible memories ever since I think I was maybe 13, 14 years old my first time I went there. I love so many things about it. I love the people. I love the food. I love the culture. 
 I mean, I have been to so many different parts of it, as well, I've got to experience. I mean, you go to a different town, people live differently. It's so unique there. I draw so much inspiration all my life from there and from those people.
 It's devastating to know what they're going through. Yeah, but I hope that it doesn't continue and become worse.

 Q. Where do you see yourself in the game right now?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Um, you know, I see myself building from what I can. You know, my goal this year is to consistently stay healthy and just really build on -- you know, last week I got to the semifinals. I was really happy, because I hadn't played a tournament in a while. 
 So just, you know, play a lot more tournaments, you know, play a lot more matches, and I feel like my form will get to where I want it to be when I do that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT