WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2010
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/M. Sharapova
  7-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Maria Sharapova. 

 Q. On a scale of 1 to 10, how will you rate your game today?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I thought I played really well and I thought I had my chances. You know, if it was not for her really great serving, uhm, I certainly had a real good look at winning the match. 

 Q. So what happened after the first set? What was going through your mind in the second set?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, the match isn't over. You know, I had my chances in the first one. There is no doubt in my mind that the match wasn't over and we still had some sets to play. 
 You know, I kept going for it. And, uhm, yeah. 

 Q. Can you talk about facing her serve. She's so tough to break. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, she served extremely well, some of the best she served against me. And, yeah, I think today that was really the difference. 
 You know, I had a few looks at her serve. But, uhm, you know, I think even when you had a good look and the ball's coming at you in the 120s, it's pretty tough to do much with it. 
 But, uhm, yeah, I thought it was an all-right performance. 

 Q. That's a lot of pressure on your service games. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, it does. And I think -- I mean, that's certainly how she wins a majority of her matches. By serving so well, it makes you think that you really need to hold on to your service games. You know, I did a good job of that. But, you know, just not enough. 
 You know, I was going for it when I had my opportunities. Just fell a little short. 

 Q. You seem to respond well to playing matches on those terms. Is that accurate?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: On which terms? 

 Q. You both hitting big balls, points are over in two or three strokes. That seems well within your comfort zone. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, I mean, when you have someone serving that fast, if you're gonna have long rallies, I don't think that's feasible, yeah. 

 Q. How would you rate the way you played today both mentally and physically?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I mean, I was right there. I felt really good. You know, I gave her a run for her money. I'm feeling really good. I'm in a much better spot than I was last year. I'm playing a lot better, feeling really great physically. 
 Uhm, I had my chances at the French. I certainly had them today. This only gives me confidence. 

 Q. Did you feel the crowd were on your side today? 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Uhm, I felt their support. And, uhm, it was great to be back on Centre Court. Last year's experience wasn't well. I wasn't playing well at all. To be out there and just really playing my game, uhm, yeah, it was fun to be out there. 

 Q. Would you like to come back?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: That's a silly question. Of course, I would. 

 Q. Is she the ultimate test, especially on grass here?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, absolutely, because it takes a lot of concentration to break her serve. And sometimes, I mean, even if you kind of, you know, know her pattern or feel like you're getting on top of her serves, even if you have a good look at them, I mean, there's a good chance you're not gonna win the point if she's consistently serving that big. 
 But, uhm, you know, I still had my opportunities. And absolutely it was a good test and I was right up there. 

 Q. Were the conditions out there even more consistent to big serving?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: The conditions were great. It makes the ball go faster through the air, makes the court faster. 

 Q. Tennis players are sometimes dismissed as being self-centered. You and friends and family members are going to be going to Chernobyl. The disaster there occurred 24 years ago. Are the problems still ongoing? 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yes. 

 Q. Also in our country we're having a major disaster. Can you in any way relate the two disasters? 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: You know, it's funny, most importantly it's the fear that's in people's minds and the fear that no one really understands what's going on, and that leads to a poor quality of life for them and for the regions around them. 
 You know, my goal is really to restore that and to send the message that we're all very aware of the situation, what has happened many years ago, and that people on a daily basis are still affected by it, are getting sick, and are living in those regions. 
 But I'm very excited about the trip. I was meant to go a couple years ago, and unfortunately I had to fly back to the States to work on my shoulder. But I'm going I think on Wednesday morning. It will be great. I haven't been there in 10 years.

 Q. There still are serious problems there. 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Oh, yeah. Both of my parents are actually from Belarus. If it was not for Chernobyl, I probably would be born in Belarus. When my mom got pregnant in 1986, that's when it all happened, and that's why we fled to Siberia. 

 Q. The last three tournaments you played very close to very good players in all matches. Do you feel like you're close to getting over the line? What's it going to take for you to tip the scales in your favor?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I mean, I was very happy that I was put in the situations and I got myself in the situation in order to win the match. I certainly could have done a little bit of better job in executing. 
 You know, I can sit here and whine about that. But the fact that I gave myself a chance and I went out there and I'm feeling, you know, just really happy to be playing out there the way I want to play and the way that makes me happy playing, uhm, it's a joy to be out there again. 

 Q. How much of getting back to the position you were in and would like to be in again is now at this point a mental issue as opposed to a physical issue?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: It's about going out there and playing matches like these and obviously executing. That certainly helps. Like I said, if I didn't give myself an opportunity to be in that position, I'd probably feel worse about myself. 
 So, uhm, it's a step forward, a step in the right direction, you know, yeah. 

 Q. After playing that well this afternoon, do you feel you can come back and win Wimbledon again?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: There's no doubt. 

 Q. As a stylish tennis player, you look stylish on and off court. Can you give us some information about your necklace?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Should thank Tiffany for that. They're very generous with their earrings. 
 My cross? I've had this cross ever since I was a young girl. I've worn it since, I don't know, I was five or six years old.

 Q. Do you wear it every time you play?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, I wear it every day. Well, not every day of my life but most of the time.

 Q. Is it a lucky pendant? 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I mean, it's brought a lot of luck in my life. But I don't wear it because it's lucky. I wear it because my parents gave it to me. 

 Q. If Serena continues to serve at this level, do you think anyone can beat her here? 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I don't think you're gonna see too many breaks. There's always a chance. But if she's consistently serving and hitting those spots with that speed, I think it's pretty tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT