ROGERS CUP
August 20, 2009
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/V. Zvonareva
  6-2, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Is that the first time you've ever had a match postponed due to a tornado warning?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Probably. I've had a lot of rain delays in my career but probably not because of a tornado. But I guess the good thing about that is it kind of passes through, and once it's out of there, you can start playing.

 Q. What kind of things do you do during a delay like that to stay fresh while you're waiting to get on the court?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I was just with my team, just getting ready for the match. Nothing special. It's very boring.

 Q. Do you find yourself at an advantage or disadvantage knowing that you have to play so many strong competitors going throughout the tournament early on?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, I think this is the best preparation you could ask for, going into the US Open where, you know, every single player is going to be there. 
 You know, obviously to play them here is great because you can definitely work on your game, and all these tournaments in the US Open series that lead up to the US Open are great preparation.

 Q. I believe on television you said you're glad to get all these matches over in two sets --
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah.

 Q. -- because of your shoulder? You don't want to have to test it any more than you have to?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, I know I have to come back the next day. The smart thing is if you have the opportunity to finish the match in two, that's the way to go.

 Q. Your last match you weren't too happy with your play. How do you grade your play today?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I thought it was a step up, definitely, and I had to against somebody that I've had trouble against in the past who I usually play three sets against. 
 It was good to finish the match in two, but I -- I mean, I really had no choice. I had to pick it up. It was interesting with not a lot of warmup before the match, and you just have to go out there and, you know, warm up as quickly as you can before the match.

 Q. No more competition with yourself about... 
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, I think my unforced errors, the number itself was a lot lower than it was in my previous match. That was very important against her.

 Q. I think you said on Friday that you wanted to stay around a bit at this tournament. You haven't had much success here. You must be happy then?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, absolutely. I think this is definitely a great result. I've already played against three great opponents, and you know, I'm going to play another opponent tomorrow. You know, you just hope that with each match you can raise your level and play better. 

 Q. You've had plenty of rain delays over your career, I'm sure, especially at Wimbledon and stuff like that. But have you ever been in a situation where it was quite as violent as it was today?
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, I didn't hear much, because I was in the player's area in the locker room, and it's pretty -- it's pretty quiet in there. We're around cement, so that was -- that was good, knowing that there were tornado warnings. That was the good thing about being around cement. Usually you like to be open and in fresh air, but I guess that's the plus side of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT