ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 30, 2008
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARIA SHARAPOVA: Bad news, you guys, because I'm withdrawing. It was pretty obvious out there. Coming into this tournament, I wasn't quite sure if I was going to be able to compete. In the last few weeks, I've been struggling with trying to find a solution to the aggravation I did to the shoulder back in Indian Wells in one of the matches. I haven't really found the solution yet.   
 I just spoke to a couple doctors that are here, you know. They advised me to really try to find the cause of the problem, sort of what's causing my bursitis, because they think there's something else behind it rather than just that.   
 So, you know, tomorrow I'm going to head to the doctor's office - it's obviously too late right now - and get an MRI, this specific MRI they want me to take, see, kind of go from there.   
 It's obviously unfortunate. You know, you try to do every little possible thing you can. But at the end of the day when you go on court, you're thinking about aggravating things, you're thinking about, you know, an injury. It's not just really the way to play, so...   
  
  Q. The obvious question is the Olympics and the US Open. What is your gut feeling about them?  
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: My gut feeling? I think the results tomorrow, you know, will help me with the bigger picture. But, I mean, at the end of the day, it's tough to go on court and not be close to even, I mean, 50%. I'm too good of a player to go out there and try to fight through something that I think can eventually become something serious.   
  
  Q. Looked like you were a million miles away in between points. I guess you were thinking about how it was feeling...   
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Obviously, I was not even sure if I was going to continue in the beginning of the third set because it was getting worse as the match went on. I mean, it's tough to fly all the way to Montréal and play two sets and say, I'm done. Maybe that's the right thing to do. But I have too many fans out there watching me that support me, you know, on a daily basis to kind of say, I'm going to head home... At least I finished the match.   
  
  Q. Are you going to stay in Montréal for a few days?  
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Well, I'm going to take that test tomorrow, as soon as I can.   
  
  Q. Here?  
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah. I'm going to wait for a phone call from the doctor. It's too late to schedule anything right now.   
  
  Q. You just asked for the doctor one time. In the third set the shoulder was a little bit better?  
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I can only get one three-minute treatment on it throughout the match.   
  
  Q. I think you were on Letterman over a year ago. You made a comment that I wanted to bring up. I think you said something like you wanted people to know they had to take you seriously. Something to the effect that you thought people needed to take you seriously, when I feel like your record is remarkable and people have to take you seriously.   
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: No, I think it was more the point about opinions. I think he asked me something about expectations from people in the crowd. It all came down to, you know, winning Wimbledon at 17. I told him I thought when you win a Grand Slam, especially at that point of your career, it's pretty difficult to just say to yourself that I have to win every single match after that, or I have to win every Grand Slam. That's the people's expectations after you win a Grand Slam. I think that's what I was talking about.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT