INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 16, 2008
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. SHARAPOVA/P. Schnyder  
6-7, 7-5, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) Have you ever seen a match where there were two sides to the match? For example, in the first set it seemed as though the light was bother you and you had some problems, whereas later on the match --  
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: What match was he watching?   
  
  Q. (From Italian.) Later on the match completely changed and it became a whole different story.   
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Because of the light?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: You mean the stadium light or the sunlight?   
  
  Q. (From Italian) Just because it's a night match and it seemed as though the lights in the stadium were bothering you.  
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: I don't know how many night matches I played in my career, but I played a lot of them. I'm used to night matches, and the lights don't bother me. Again, no.   
  
  Q. With regard to the second part, the match completely change and turned in your favor later?  
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: Yeah, it did. From the first set when I was down 5-2 and I got it back, I started playing better and my energy level went up a little bit.   
 Even though I lost the tiebreaker, I still felt like I started playing better and doing the right things, whereas in the beginning of the first set I was -- I don't know what was up, but it wasn't fun.   
 And then it kind of changed a little bit and I stepped in and I was being aggressive. I stopped making a movie out of it and I started playing my game.   
  
  Q. You made many mistakes with your serve today. What do you think is the reason? And would you tell us with such a game who do you think will win tomorrow's match against Jankovic? Because today she played very good.   
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: In the beginning I was making a little too many errors. I was going for a little too much. As the match went on I was -- became a little bit smarter and I started doing a lot of things well.   
 In the beginning of the match I was just making too much errors and -- off of all my strokes and my serve. And then as the match went on I just, for some reason, became a little more comfortable and, you know, stepped in and started doing what I do best, which is being aggressive and not letting my opponent get back into the points.   
  
  Q. Do you consider the match against Jankovic the real final of this tournament?   
 MARIA SHARAPOVA: No. It's the semifinal.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT