US OPEN
September 5, 2005
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Maria, please. 
 

Q.  The expression on your face at the end of this match seemed to say, "I'm glad this is over with and I'm getting out of here with a win."
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Yeah, because after the second set I didn't feel like my game was there.  I felt like I was making too many errors.  Mentally I wasn't there.  I jusst didn't have any motivation And then I just, yeah, I wasn't fighting out there basically in the second set.  It's like I was giving it up, you know.  I felt like I thought the match was just one set, you know, I won the first set and I felt like for some reason it was over.  You know, she's not going to give it up. You know, then I started playing better in the third.  Had great passing shots when I needed them to break her. 
 

Q.  What did you say to the chair umpire when you wanted the let played on the ball that went into the stands?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Well, I said that the ball bounced -- that the ball bounced on the court in the middle of the point, and she said she did not see the ball.  And I said, "Well, there's 20,000 people in the stands that saw the ball except you and I think we need to replay the point." She said, "I didn't see it." 
 

Q.  It came from behind you?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Yeah, well, I can't put a third eye on my left side, so not too much I can do. 
 

Q.  You seemed very emotional, trying to pump yourself up.  Was that unusual?  Were you just trying to get motivated?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Like I said, I don't think I was there in the second set, you know.  It wasn't Maria that you usually see on the court, fighting out there, fighting for every single point.  I was just mentally kind of down and, you know, just said, "Hey, got to get back to work now." 
 

Q.  Could it possibly be that you had four matches which you went through pretty quickly out there, the first four rounds, and it's always nice to be able to cruise into the quarterfinals but she had a fairly tough match in her fourth round against Vaidisova.  Could that have been a factor where she was ready for something tougher, where you were looking at your first tough match of the tournament?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I knew it was going to be tough.  I came out hitting a lot of winners.  I felt like I was playing great.  You know, she broke me once, all of a sudden she started playing well.  She started, you know, hitting the ball, hitting good shots.  And, you know, all of a sudden you stop and you think "What happened?  I was up 4-0 and now it's back to 4-All." I mean, coming into the match I knew it was going to be a tough match.  I knew it was not going to be a walk in the park.  This is the quarterfinal of a US Open. 
 

Q.  Is she a tough opponent for you?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  She has a very big game and, you know, she has a big serve.  If someone's serve is on, I guess there's not too much you can do. But, yeah, she does, she has a big game for sure. 
 

Q.  She made a comment, she said that she thought that after the bathroom break you didn't seem like the same player when you came back.
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  After which one?  I went to change in between. 
 

Q.  I think it was the first one.
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  The first one, well, I had to go to the bathroom since the first game so after that, you know... I don't know.  Maybe I just let it all out, I mean (laughing). 
 

Q.  You feel that you came back, you know, there was nothing --
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Did she mean in a good way? 
 

Q.  Just a comment she made.  After the bathroom break...
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I started playing better or worse? 
 

Q.  I think she said you were playing worse.  You were strong, had a bathroom break, for a period of time you didn't seem like you were the same player?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  So after the bathroom break I was playing better? 
 

Q.  Worse.
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Worse.  I don't know. 
 

Q.  After the break.
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Oh, so I was... 
 

Q.  That's why she was wondering, what happened during the break.
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  It was actually a pretty quick break.  I mean, the bathroom is right outside the court, yeah. 
 

Q.  If you play Venus Williams, given how she has been playing since Wimbledon, what do you see as the biggest challenge in going up against her?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I just have to be mentally ready for a very tough battle.  Every single point is going to be long and it's just a matter of who wants it more and who is willing to be out there longer. 
 

Q.  How would you compare and contrast your styles?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I mean, we both hit a pretty big shot.  I think we're both really tough.  We don't want to lose out there.  But I don't know. 
 

Q.  Can you talk more about this final game.  You were so close to being 5-5 in the third set.  You were able to battle back and pull out the match.  What was going through your mind?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  That's kind of why I had the ref at the end because, you know, it would have been a totally different match.  Who knows what would have happened at 5-All? But, you know, just hung in there and, you know, I know she got a little bit tight serving at 40-15; she made a double.  Then hit a pretty easy backhand, I think.  And I was, you know -- hit a good return on matchpoint, she hit a great serve wide.  I managed to get it back.  You know, her ball was a little bit out.  That's the way tennis goes.  You know, sometimes it goes in; sometimes it goes out. 
 
Q.  It really was a sensational final point.  Were you thinking "backhand side" and guessing more where she was going?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I think her best serve is down the T, I would say.  But she likes to mix it up.  She likes to mix it up in the ad court.  But she has a big serve.  I mean, either way it goes, it's pretty flat. But she can surprise you once in a while, and I think I was leaning towards that and that's why I was, you know, I was kind of on the run. 
 

Q.  You were saying earlier you were trying to figure out why you didn't have any motivation.  How did you feel coming on to the court?  Did you feel good, did you feel sharp?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Yeah, well, I mean, I started at 4-0 playing great, so of course I felt good.  But, you know, things can turn around really quickly.  Momentum can change.  You know, just felt like there were a lot of up and downs.  You feel like you're playing good, you make great shots, then all of a sudden, you know, things don't go...(inaudible).  You're making errors, she starts picking it up, you know, she starts playing a higher level.  I don't know, I just felt it was up and down. 
 

Q.  Does it concern you you'd go on the court without the proper motivation to play a quarterfinal match?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  It's not that I didn't have motivation going into the match, it's just that after I won the first set, I just kind of, you know -- she broke me right away.  And, you know, I was just moaning, I couldn't make my first serve in, I was making too many errors.  I was just getting a bad attitude out there basically. So it's just, you know, I wasn't being positive.  I should have told myself, "Okay, you just got broken, you can break back."  I was saying, "Oh, I just got broken..."  you know. 
 

Q.  You think having a match like this under your belt, though, after straight sets in the first rounds, this is going to be something you could draw upon going forward, the fact that you survived this test?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Yeah, I always prefer two-set matches but, you know, I think this was a good challenge for me.  It gives me a lot of confidence that I can pull out a win like that when there are points of a match where you don't feel great. But I, you know, am happy to get through. 
 

Q.  Do you have any kind of preference in terms of who you'd like to play?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  No, doesn't really matter. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT