AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2005
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Maria, please.  
 
 
Q.  Match point there, how much did you have left in the tank?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Just enough to win that match point, that's it.  
 
Q.  Do you get a sense of who was feeling the heat more, yourself or your opponent?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  It was hard to think about anything else except yourself.  I was just trying to tell myself mentally just to get through it.  I kept thinking back in my off-season, you know, how hard it was when I was training physically, and I thought I couldn't go any more, but I knew that I had some more even though my body thought I didn't.  I remember those moments, and I just kept fighting, just trying to take as much time as I can and fight. 
 
Q.  At what point did you first start to feel sick or feel exhausted?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Well, from the beginning of the match, it was quite hot.  I was a bit lazy at the beginning of the match.  I didn't run for as many balls.  I wasn't getting balls back that I could have got back.  You know, I was making too many errors.  But the third set -- end of second set is when I think both of us started feeling the heat and feeling tired and wanted the points to go a lot quicker.  
 
Q.  Will your post-match routine to recuperate change from what you normally do after this match?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Yeah, I'll definitely be drinking a lot of water and going to the bathroom every five minutes.  But other than that, no. 
 
Q.  Where does it rank heat-wise as far as matches you've played?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I think it is -- I've played in hot weather, but I've never played three sets in the hot weather, and I've never played the quarterfinals of the Australian Open in hot weather.  So this is a first for me.  But like I said, you've got to start somewhere, you've got to learn, and you've got to find a way to get through it.  
 
Q.  Is it helpful to have a 10-minute break before the third set?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Definitely.  It's very helpful because I thought both of us were -- you know, that's when we were starting to get a little tired and we wanted the points to go shorter, so we were going for our shots.  And I think the quality of the tennis started to pick up once we took the break.  Well, I felt like it did.  I felt like after I got the break, my body cooled down a little bit. 
 
Q.  Do you think they should have it at other tournaments where heat can be as high as here?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I think they do.  
 
Q.  Regarding the surface, Lleyton said it's as slow as clay.  In the heat, did you feel it's very slow, it's like clay?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I don't worry about the surface when it's 35 degrees outside.  That's the last thing on my mind. 
 
Q.  Is it too slow, the surface? 
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Oh, if it's slow for me, it's slow for my opponent.  So doesn't matter. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT