US OPEN
August 26, 2003
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Maria, please. 


Q.  You had an amazing win today.  I know obviously a lot of people talk about the way you look, you being the new Anna Kournikova.  How does that make you feel?

MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I always just try to be myself.  I don't worry about who people think I am.  You know, in myself, I know I'm Maria, nobody else.  You know, what's around me, they can talk and they can say anything.  But I just want to do my own thing.  I'm Maria Sharapova and not anyone else. 

Q.  What can you say about this match?  It started hard. 

MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I mean, the match went really well, I think.  First of all, I'm playing against a Spanish player.  Especially for me, I don't think it's really easy to play a Spanish player.  I mean, she hits slice, spin, this, that.  You really got to be physically ready.  I think I came out and I was really ready for that kind of play.  I didn't let her do what she likes to do.  I just played my game.  I think she had a little trouble with that.  She couldn't play the way she likes to play. 

Q.  Do you know we asked her about her vision on your play, on your image, she said that she likes you.  What could you say about her?  You know, her accomplishments?

MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Well, I know I've played her in doubles quite a few times, but I've never played her in singles.  In doubles, you know, I've always played three sets against them. They're unbelievable doubles partners.  They're so good.  Playing singles, you know, it's a different story, of course.  But, I mean, she's a really nice girl.  She's really friendly all the time on the tour.  I mean, really a good girl. 

Q.  After the criticism you took for the noise that you made during tennis, has that been a difficult adjustment for you to try to tone that down?  Have you been working on that?

MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I haven't been working on that at all (laughter).  I just play tennis out there.  I don't really  -- I don't think about what's going on.  It was just one match in my career that, you know, somebody said something.  I mean, since Wimbledon or since Birmingham, I haven't got one complaint.  I think it was just the media that really wanted to make a big fuss about it.  I'm just playing tennis.  It's the last thing I want on my mind.  It is the last thing that's on my mind. 

Q.  Two unseeded players at Louis Armstrong Stadium; is it a sacrifice to the crowd preferences or what? 

MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Well, you know, it's their decision.  I can't do anything about that.  So, you know, if they want me to play on Armstrong, I think that's great.  I love playing on that court.  I never played on it.  I played Arthur Ashe Kids Day.  The big stadium is just so big.  Going into Armstrong is really nice.  It's a really great court. 

Q.  What do you think of the general debate about women's tennis, that there's too much of a babe factor, people care too much about that side of tennis?  You wear a pink dress today.  How important is that side to you?

MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I don't think it's really important to be the babe of tennis.  I don't really care about that.  I'm there to play tennis.  That's my number one priority on the court.  Regarding the dress, I mean, when I go on court, I like to feel good about myself.  I mean, the dress is a fun way of showing that I'm creative and I can really wear that stuff.  I'm really happy to be wearing it.  You know, to be a babe, that's like the last thing on my mind, even if I'm wearing the dress. 

Q.  The atmosphere at this tournament with the crowds, is it different than other places?

MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Yes, it is.  When you're stepping on the court, you've got to serve first point, I mean, everybody is still walking around at the stadium like it's not a match.  You have to wait maybe five seconds for them to calm down and take their seats (laughter).  I think at other tournaments it's a little bit more proper.  I really think this is great, just for the people to come out and just be so happy to watch the tennis.  I think it's great, especially in New York, busy town, crazy fans.  It's great. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT