WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2003
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
 
 
Q.  What memories will you be taking away with you your first Wimbledon? 
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Very pleasant memories.  I'll only take the good ones (smiling).  But, no, just enjoying myself, I mean, the whole week.  Last week I just enjoyed myself.  I played some great tennis.  And just that feeling of playing good and showing the fans how you can play, it was definitely wonderful.  But just everyone around here, you know, be remembering them all, you know.  Going to play on Court 1, the big show court.  Just things like that.  
 
Q.  How were you affected today with the problems with the weather, your court being moved?  Did that affect you?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  No, I don't think it affected me.  I just rested up before, didn't really do much.  No.  
 
Q.  And did you feel after beating Jelena that you had, obviously, a good opportunity against Svetlana?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Well, you never know.  I mean, you never know what you can expect when you go on the court.  Today, I mean, she just played some great tennis.  And when I had my chances, you know, I just didn't take them.  There was a big chance for 5-3 in the third.  I had the forehand right there which was just, you know,  something that happens.  It's just a little here and there that makes a difference between when you win and when you lose.  Unfortunately, today I lost.  That's all right.  
 
Q.  Did you feel that Svetlana's toilet break at the end of the second set affected your momentum at all?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  No.  No, no, no.  I mean, she came out, she played -- we both played a good game, but she obviously served and she had the advantage.  And also today I didn't serve well at all, didn't feel my serve out there.  I think she got me on the return.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a little about when you first moved to the States and how you sort of got yourself established there.  Was it tough when you first came over?  Did you come with your whole family?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  No, I just came with my dad because my mom couldn't get a visa.  It was definitely tough.  I mean, it's not easy coming to a different country when you don't really know the language, you don't know where you're going to be situated.  But I was there to play tennis and, you know, went to a tennis academy, Bollettieri, and just developed my career there.  
 
Q.  It was just you and your dad for a while then?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  For two years.  
 
Q.  Two years.  How did he make the decision, actually, to come over? 
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Well, he made the decision, both my mom and my dad did.  
 
Q.  Do you know how he picked that particular place or...? 
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Uhm, well, the particular place was the US because in Russia you couldn't really  -- it was hard, you know, to develop a tennis career.  So, you know, the destination was the US.  I don't know why.  But coming there, I think he had an idea in his mind going to Bollettieri.  
 
Q.  Why is it harder in Russia, do you think, or was it? 
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Well, because at those times in the winter it's really cold.  There is no way you can play in the winter.  I mean, you'd have to take four months off tennis, and that's no way of developing a tennis career. 
 
Q.  They didn't have any indoor...?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  They had indoor courts.  They were like $30 an hour. 
 
Q.  Have things have gotten better in terms of the facilities?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Oh, definitely.  I mean, as the sport gets bigger, I mean, facilities get bigger and get a lot of kids involved. 
 
Q.  Do you dream about coming back one day and winning Wimbledon?  It must be your aim.
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Oh, yes, definitely.  That's my first aim.  That's always been my aim. 
 
Q.  What do you feel you've proved to yourself over this past week? 
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I've proved that I can play against  -- I can really compete against, you know, top players.  I've proved myself that I can play really well.  And just coping  -- I mean, I love it here, you know?  So for me it's just  -- of course when you lose, it's sad.  But I just love the whole experience, and, you know, that's a big thing for me. 
 
Q.  Is there any particular thing that you've learned about the Wimbledon experience this time around?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  This time around, the strawberries were better this year (smiling).  Not really, no.  I mean, last year it was great.  I mean, this year I got to use this facility because last year, you know, the player lounge was at Aorangi for the Juniors, so that was sort of, you know, not really nice.  But this year, I mean, it's wonderful.  The facility is just  -- it's really great. 
 
Q.  You've already talked about you're going to come back next year.  Did you actually think this year that you could win it?  I know it sounds like a weird question.
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  No, definitely.  I mean, I had a chance because I was playing some good tennis.  I had a lot of confidence in myself.  I mean, I don't want to go on a court and think that, you know,  "I'm gonna lose, so why am I here?"  But, I mean, I always have a feeling when you go to a tournament that, "You can win this."  There was no doubt about it. 
 
Q.  Can you tell us about the people who come with you.  I know your dad is there.  There's a guy with a suit and there's the other guy as well. 
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  That's my agent with the suit, yeah. 
 
Q.  Your agent?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  He's right behind you. 
 
Q.  Sorry?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  He's right behind you (laughing). 
 
Q.  There's another guy as well. 
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Right, that's my fitness coach, and a guy that's been traveling with us, Michael Barash (phonetic), from Birmingham. 
 
Q.  Are those people with you all the time?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Well, no.  Actually, the fitness coach from Russia was with me just since the French Open, and Michael has been with me since Birmingham.  And my dad has always been with me, so...  Since I was born (laughing)...  Max is on and off, my agent.  
 
Q.  Are you aware that you've gathered with you a lot of British fans this year?  People seem to have really taken you to heart.  Have you noticed that?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Definitely, you know, when I walk on the court.  There was a lot of supporters today, which was great.  Definitely you notice that because they keep you going during the matches, you know.  I mean, when you're down and maybe you're not feeling well, they really raise up your game by just, I mean, "Come on, Maria," or this or that, screaming when you win a point, you know.  Just little things that make a big difference in your game, but definitely there are a lot of fans. 
 
Q.  What about off court?  You've always had a lot of attention, photographers following you around off court.  Has that fazed you a bit, or do you feel happy with that side of things as well?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  I might not like it sometimes, you know, when I feel really tired and I really don't want to smile for the cameras anymore  - like probably today (laughing).  But it's just part of what I do, you know.  I can't help it. 
 
Q.  Because at your age, it's...
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Yes, it is.  I mean, but it's part of what I do, you know.  There's nothing I can really do about it to change it.  
 
Q.  You said the other day that you think the Russian girls will work that extra hour in their training. 
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Oh, they do. 
 
Q.  Why do you think that is?  Is it something about tennis in that country or the aspirations?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  They just want to get better, you know, and they know that's what it takes to get better, that extra hour.  That's their mentality. 
 
Q.  Why do you think that's a Russian mentality?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Don't know. 
 
Q.  You said earlier this week that you were reading "Harry Potter".  Have you finished it?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Uh-hmm. 
 
Q.  Was it good?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Yes. 
 
Q.  So do you recommend it then?
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Oh, yes.  Definitely, yes.  
 
Q.  Don't tell us who died.
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  No, I'm not telling you.  No, I'm not telling you.  But I knew who died from the beginning of the book.  I don't know how you guys don't know. 
 
Q.  I haven't started reading it yet.
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  Well, it's funny because I sort of... I don't know.  People say you only find out at the end of the book, but by the middle of the book I had a feeling who was gonna die. 
 
Q.  Maybe not everyone is as clever as you.
 
MARIA SHARAPOVA:  It's just that feeling (laughing)... 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT