WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2015
Maria Sharapova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/R. Hogenkamp
  6‑3, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   I suppose your Dutch coach, Sven, could tell you something about your Dutch opponent?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, look, I like to make things very simple no matter where they're from or where my coach is from.   Obviously he's known her game for quite some time.   Me, not so much.   I think that was good.   
Like I said, it's best not to overthink things.   Different opponent, new court today, different conditions.   I think just trying to figure that out from the beginning was more important than anything else.   
   
 Q.   What is your assessment two matches into your grass season?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, I mean, I feel the match, my first‑round match compared to today, different conditions.   The court played a lot slower.   We had a lot longer rallies.   Didn't get a huge advantage off the serve, the return.   Didn't serve my best today.   Made a few too many unforced errors.   
Overall, once we got into the rallies, once I realized I needed to be a little more patient, then things started working a little better for me.   
   
 Q.   How did you find it out there compared to other arenas where it's properly warm?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   It's much warmer in my hometown of Long Boat Key, Florida.   There's some cloud coverage.   I think I've trained quite long in the heat over there.   
I think just the preparation of understanding it's going to be warm, not going for too much because you want to make the points quicker than normal because of the heat, just being a little bit smarter out there is the most important.   
   
 Q.   You struggled a bit with your serve today.   Can you remember serving three double‑faults in a row?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I didn't find the rhythm in a few of those games.   I think the good thing, after that I regained my timing, started tossing the ball a little bit more consistently.   That helped me.  
   
 Q.   Have you done that before, three double‑faults in a row?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I'm sure, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Every year the same discussion about prize money, women playing best‑of‑five.   Do you think it would be a good idea to play best‑of‑five or not at Grand Slams?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I mean, it's never really been a topic within us.   We've never really been asked about playing three‑out‑of‑five.   That's why it's never been further discussed.   
   
 Q.   Kvitova played 35 minutes, men play four hours.   Is it fair to compare or not?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I'm not sure.   I think you do more of the comparisons than we do, so I think you're a better judge of that.  
   
 Q.   A topic that's come up a few times before with you, with Grigor, playing at the same tournament together.   How do you manage that side of it?   He told us earlier that you and him analyze each other's matches.   Does that ever extend to giving advice and tips?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   I think we're quite professional in what we do.   We try to separate, you know, our match times and go about our business as we would in any other careers, respect each other very much.   When we're out here, we're doing our job and trying to do the best we can.   
   
 Q.   Did you get the chance to watch any of his match today?  
MARIA SHARAPOVA:   Yeah, I actually watch a little bit of all the matches, especially the matches beforehand, before my match.   Since he was playing on my court, I like to see what the conditions are, how the court is playing.   So, yeah, I don't shy away from that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT