THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 1995
Mats Wilander
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What happened to you?

 MATS WILANDER:  I not sure what happened. Suddenly I think that
I didn't change that much.  I mean, I didn't start missing or
anything.  I think he was just playing unbelievable for five games.
 He was hitting some unbelievable returns and not hitting the
lines, but hitting very close to lines and I think it was more
of what happened to him, I think.  I didn't feel like I played
worse or that I got nervous or anything.  I think if I could replay
it, I suppose, maybe I could have gone for a little bit more.
 But at the same time, I kept playing the same game as I did the
previous two sets and it seemed to be working, so I was lucky
to be up 5-2 and he was lucky to come back.

 Q.  Did you feel tired or anything like that?

 MATS WILANDER:  No.  No, please.  It is two points.  Seriously,
it is two points that he hits one centimeter inside the line compared
to being one centimeter outside the line.  These are the margins
that make the difference when they get down to quarterfinals and
semifinals or finals.  And unfortunately, for the loser, these
things happen.  But the margins are so small when you get to that
point and they were on his side today, I think at the end.

 Q.  When he starts to come on like that, did his shots for
your type of game just pack a little bit too much power?

 MATS WILANDER:  Yeah.  I mean, when he is on, like he was the
last five games, I am not hitting enough winners to -- I suppose
to put him away.  If I had Pete Sampras' serve, then obviously
with two chances, I could have most probably put him away even
if he would have been playing unbelievable.  With my kind of game,
yeah, when he gets on a roll like that, I mean, last five games
is basically what happened in the first set.  So I think the match
was just his in the beginning and then mine for most of it, and
then his at the end.

 Q.  Are you surprised with yourself to play the way you are
now?  You made the semifinals; are you pleased?

 MATS WILANDER:  Yeah, I am surprised, yeah, very surprised. 
I mean, I have been playing a little better the last few weeks
than I have during last year.  I had a few good weeks last year,
but not as steady as the last few weeks, so I am surprised.  At
the same time, I mean, I have realized that I don't -- you don't
lose that much in two years or three years that it is impossible
to come back. Basically, what you lose is a bit of confidence
at tight situations at 5-All, whatever, so I am surprised that
I am playing this well now.  But I am not surprised that eventually
I was going to play this well.  I didn't think it was coming now.
 I would have been surprised whenever it would have come, so...


 Q.  Did you feel that he was just overpowering in the beginning
or did you feel you had a slow start? Maybe you were expecting
to play a lot earlier than you did?

 MATS WILANDER:  I think that it -- yeah, it was a bit of a let-down
to be waiting around for that match before.  I think it was a
let-down for everybody.  I think, the crowd sounded exhausted
about the time we started playing.  At the same time, as I said
before, I mean, he hit so many shots that were basically unreachable
in the first set.  He hit so many forehands.  My tactic was to
play his forehand and he hit so many down the line they were clearly
in, but, you know, it is a matter of 2, 3 centimeters; and in
the second set he was missing those shots and the second set is
what I was expecting from the beginning, and it didn't happen.
 He was just on a roll in the beginning.  I must have been playing
a bit short.  In the first set, he was just too good.

 Q.  You used that forehand crosscourt; you went to his forehand
a lot in those last five games; when you went to the backhand,
you won those points.

 MATS WILANDER:  Well, I think maybe I played his forehand a little
bit too much at the end.  I played his forehand most of the match,
much more than his backhand, but I suppose at the end I could
have played maybe a little bit too much to his forehand. His forehand
is the shot that breaks down usually.  He doesn't miss too many
backhands.  He misses backhands when -- when he gets so happy
that the ball is over there that he can hit his backhand; that
is when he misses, I think I played pretty much the way I wanted
to play.  I was just unlucky or just not good enough at the end.


 Q.  Speaking about power, did you try to play with a wide
body racket or --

 MATS WILANDER:  Yeah.  I am not going to win any matches with
power - I realize that.  Yes, if I could play the same kind of
percentage tennis that I am playing now with a wide body racket,
yes, I would be probably much better.  But I can't.  When I play
with a wide body racket instead of getting more power, I am missing
more, and my game is to counterpunch just, you know, stay in the
rally and wait for the right moment.

 Q.  Are you using the same racket you used to do?

 MATS WILANDER:  No, I used to play with a Rossignol.  Now it
is a Fisher.  A lot of players actually use the racket that I
am using now.

 Q.  So you have probably moved into the top 100 probably won't
have to rely on wildcards as much.  Is that a big relief?

 MATS WILANDER:  It is a bigger relief that I don't have to rely
on wildcards every week, but I mean, there is obviously still--
I think you need to be top 60, maybe to be nearly be sure to be
in every tournament apart from obviously, Bercy, and a couple
of the big ones and I am not there now.  I guess if I won today,
I would have moved closer to that point.  Yeah, I mean, it is
great.  I don't need a wildcard for the French.  I don't need
a wildcard for Wimbledon, so yeah, it is good.

 Q.  Are you planning on Wimbledon?  Last year you didn't plan
on it.

 MATS WILANDER:  I am planning on going to Wimbledon, yes.

      End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT