NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 7, 1995
Mats Wilander
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Talk to us about the match and tell us about the second
set.

 MATS WILANDER:  Well, I think that first set, I don't know, I
didn't feel like I played that well.  I didn't "feel"
the ball very well.  I think it was just  -- I was hitting off
of my back foot all the time and the fact that I won the first
set, I think was just more luck.  I played a little better on
the big points, but I didn't feel good.  Beginning of the second
set.  I was, I don't know, sometimes you get upset even though
you are up and you are leading, you just lose your concentration
for a moment and I wasn't playing good enough to be able to reach
my concentration --- mental let-down.

 Q.   You didn't come in so often.

 MATS WILANDER:  I expected it to be the kind of match that it
was.  We played a lot of times in the past and played Emilio also
and they play pretty similar, so I know the way that these matches
usually go and when they play the kind of game that Javier plays,
I feel like I am still fast enough to be in the  point and be
able to move around, but I also get very defensive, so I hit a
lot of short balls and he basically is forced to come in.

 Q.   Can you assess for me where your career stands today?

 MATS WILANDER:  Where does my career. . .

 Q.   Where is your game right now?

 MATS WILANDER:  Well, compared to what?

 Q.   Say, a yeah ago, obviously not back to when you were
winning the U.S. Open.

 MATS WILANDER:  I think the difference between now and a year
ago is not necessarily that I am playing better, but I mean, I
haven't pulled out a lot of matches, but I feel the kind of matches
that you need to pull out and eventually the physical part of
the game, actually hitting of the ball is what will come back
with a lot of confidence, so I think I am just -- I am getting
using to be out traveling a lot and getting a little bit more
used to playing close matches and I mean, it pays off.  I think
today I didn't really think I was going to win the last set.

 Q.   What are you doing for conditioning now that you are
30 years old and you are not playing -- you are not playing as
a teenager anymore; what are you doing to -- 

 MATS WILANDER:  I try and work out when I am back home and try
and basically trying to play a lot of tennis.  I don't feel like
I need to be physically as strong as I used to be because there
is no room to "run home matches" if you know what I
mean, you don't -- nobody is fast enough to be able to run somebody
down. You have to actually be able to outhit them, sort of, these
days, so that has changed.  I think you maybe need to be faster,
but not -- stamina does not have to be as strong as before.  So
I just try and play a lot of tennis basically and try and get
a little bit stronger.

 Q.   Are you playing smarter now than you did, say, ten years
ago?

 MATS WILANDER:  I think I am playing smarter in a certain sense,
but at the same time when you have a lot of confidence, it seems
like you are playing smarter because you are doing the right thing
and I think I am thinking more now than I used to do, but -- and
I think I know what I am doing more than I used to do, but as
I say, I know that I am supposed to hit the ball down the line
with my backhand more often, but it is just a matter of confidence
to actually do it, in '88 there was a not a problem with having
a lot of confidence; that is the difference. 

 Q.   Sounds like you had a little bit of a crisis of confidence
in the third set too, you didn't think you had a chance to win?

 MATS WILANDER:  Well, as I said, I didn't really feel that good
out there.  I think the ball seemed to be flying off of my racket
quite a lot, and when that happens, I feel like I don't enough
confidence to hit through the ball and I stand there and basically
just push it back and it didn't get better as the match went on.
 I think I played a lucky game to 2-All; then I played a great
game to break him to 3-2, even though I lost my serve straight
after that, it was just "wow", it is actually still
there, and I felt like I could dig down a little deeper and was
able to break him again.

 Q.   Was it that point that you thought you did have a chance
to win?

 MATS WILANDER:  Yeah, after the point in the second set I had
just -- didn't have anything on the ball, was giving him too much
time to do what he likes to do.

 Q.   How about your volleys; lacked a hit of steam?

 MATS WILANDER:  Sure, sometimes it is hard to volley.  Get a
guy like Sanchez because he hits with so  much spin and you don't
get any free power from his shots, you just get a lot of spin,
so if you are a little late at the volley, then it is easy to
either to punch it in the net or to hit floaters, and you really
have to work hard and go through volleys, and that is  -- my volley
is more of -- the guy hits hard, I had just block it and so ---it
always happens when I play against these guys.

 Q.   Mats, you used to win a lot more matches in the best
time of your career.  Obviously does this victory today become
more precious to you because it does not happen so often?

 MATS WILANDER:  For sure.  I play first rounds matches these
days that I am as psyched to play and as happy to win as finals
before, I mean, it is -- you basically cut it down to how many
matches you play.  If you play two matches a week, in average;
then your second match is a big one, and for me, now it is just
matter of surviving the first round and possibly the second round,
so, no, I feel I am very psyched up for the first rounds much
more now than before.  Before it was more of a routine thing.


 Q.   If you were walking out on the court today before the
match supposing you didn't say to yourself, well, I want to win
this match; if that wasn't the  case, what did you say to yourself?
 In other words, what was going to be my strategy or work on that
if I do this I can probably win?  Was it the groundies that you
want to make sure that you are cutting close to the lines?

 MATS WILANDER:  No.  I think it is just being alert and trying
to take the ball a bit earlier.  I think my strength as a player
is being able to read the game; not being able to -- it is not
actually the hitting part of the game.  I can't just step in and
hit a lot of winners, so what my strategy before -- I got to be
fresh and alert; try and take everything as early as I can---
not on the rise as Agassi, but just take it earlier and use some
of his speed on my shots because I can't just stand and hit from
my hip and hit winners. That is usually what I try -- I just focus
and just be alert and try and anticipate it as early as you can.


 Q.   Regardless of whether you win or lose, if you do hit
early or come in and hit early, do you feel good about that, because
you prefer to win?

 MATS WILANDER:  Sure.

 Q.   But even if you lost and you did do what you wanted to
do, you could feel good about yourself?

 MATS WILANDER:  Oh, yeah, I -- for sure.  I mean, I am trying
-- I mean, I suppose it's a toss up  between what is more important
for me to actually enjoy the match or to win it.  It gets down
to 4-0 in the third set; then it is not a tossup anymore.  From
the beginning you want to play a good match and feel like you
are playing as good as you do in practice.  I feel some days I
do play as good; then I get psyched; "let us try and win
this match," but what happens in the match like this-- sometimes
just feel I have a chance against Javier because he is a great
player, but he doesn't play quite as fast as some of the other
players and because of that, I get a bit tentative and I feel
like I should have a chance to beat him and let us just try and
rally and stay with him; then I get too defensive.

 Q.   How long did it take you to accept that you don't win
anymore so many games; you came down from very top of your career;
you started over again; you had to accept more defeats?

 MATS WILANDER:  It takes about as long as it takes for somebody
who just turned 30 to realize that I am not going to be 20 anymore.
 It is just a way of nature.  If you think about those kind of
things, you drive yourself completely crazy.  I have won enough
to not try and achieve what I achieved before.  I think if you
have -- maybe some players have a great career, but  only for
a couple of years, they would have liked to do some things different
and whatever -- there are things that I would like to do, but
I mean, I don't -- I think I did much more than I expected to
do and that is, you know, that is in the history now, history
books and I can't think back on things like that.

 Q.   Who is working with you as a coach now?  Do you have
somebody that?

 MATS WILANDER:  No, I don't have anyone at the moment, no.  I
think what I don't know by now I think I am not going to be able
to learn.

 Q.   Hitting partners?  You just hit --

 MATS WILANDER:  I just hit with Swedish guys or sometimes with
Novacek.  We are close friends and we will try and play doubles
and practice sometimes, but I know most of the players on the
Tour.  It is just a matter of setting it up and organizing it.
 If I have a coach to do it, then I think you spend too much time
in your hotel room or on a golf course so it is a good thing --
I don't want a coach.  I don't think I am ever going to have a
coach again; doesn't do anything for my game other than getting
me out there to practice and I can do that for myself.

 Q.   What kind of feeling do you have going into a match against
the hottest player on the Tour next  round?

 MATS WILANDER:  I think I am going to have to play a little better
than today to obviously have a chance to beat him.  But I mean,
I am feeling like I am not going to put too much pressure on myself
to win the match.  I want to be able to, as I said before, just
play quite aggressively and don't let Andre dominate too much;
which is not the easiest thing in the world to do, but obviously
don't go into the match thinking I am going to lose.  I mean,
I have beaten him before, there is a bit of -- a few years have
gone by since then, but still there is not that big difference
between the best players and the players down in the rankings
some weeks, so this might be a week when Andre is not playing
at his best and maybe I pull a great match out of myself.

 Q.   The crowd might get behind you and Andre.

 MATS WILANDER:  Yeah, against somebody like Andre, obviously,
I am going to be, I suppose, the underdog, but also sometimes
I think older players are a bit of a sentimental favorite.  People
know your face and have seen you.  I guess they are going to root
for me as well as for Andre just to try and get a close match,
yeah.

 Q.   You seem to want to get the crowd stirred up  again this
match, I noticed you ...

 MATS WILANDER:  Yeah, I like to get a bit hyped up and when the
crowd gets into it then it makes me focus a little more and it
makes me realize that it is an important match.  Sometimes I forget
that how important it is to win the first round.  You think, well,
it doesn't feel so good, let us just play a few loose points,
but if you lose first round you are out of a job, so sometimes
you have to think twice about how important it is to win the match.


 Q.   Do you enjoy life more today than you did when you were
at your best ranking time?

 MATS WILANDER:  I enjoy life, yeah.  Sure.

 Q.   More than when --

 MATS WILANDER:  I enjoy life more, for sure. I think now I am
-- I am, what do you say -- I am playing tennis because I like
it.  Before it was not a choice of looking it or not, I just played
tennis, and that was just my life was tennis and today I have
my life is what I do outside of tennis and tennis is just something
that I love to do and so, yeah, I enjoy it much more now.  It
is a different feeling though, I mean, you get a satisfaction
feeling when you win big tournaments and you play good matches
and you work real hard and you get --- adrenaline kicks everyday
from  playing close matches, so it much and less of a serious
feeling now than before, so it is hard to compare, but I mean,
I feel happier, if that is the right word having a family and
whatever.  True.

 Q.   When Lendl was 32 he said once that he was finally understanding
all the dimensions of the game.  Do you feel the same thing?

 MATS WILANDER:  I think -- yeah, I guess, but I think at the
same time, your eyes are open now and when you were 23 years old,
your eyes are basically closed.  You don't consider, oh, man,
that is a great shot that that guy hit, or oh that is a huge kick
serve or that is an interesting way of playing a point, I mean,
you have -- it is tunnel vision.  You don't think about those
kind of things.  I think now you are starting to -- your vision
is up in the stands and you are thinking about points and strategy
and all this kind of crap, and it is just a different --- I think
you look at it from a different point of view, basically.  You
obviously learn, but I think you are never understand everything.


 Q.   But you have a maturity now that you didn't have before?

 MATS WILANDER:  Maturity off the court, sure. 

 Q.   Who are the people you like to watch play?

 MATS WILANDER:  I like to watch a baseline match.  I watched
the Australian Open which I thought was a great final.  I like
to see when the guys start hitting a few shots.  I am very impressed
with big service and the shots that they can hit off the ground,
but any old give-and-take baseline match is most favorite for
me.

 Q.   If you had to pick two players you would like to go watch
tomorrow who would they be?

 MATS WILANDER:  Well, I suppose I like to watch someone like
Agassi against Magnus Larsson or somebody unpredictable like that
who has a huge serve, but Agassi likes to rally.

  End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT