THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 11, 1994
Mats Wilander
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATS WILANDER: Hello.

Q. How discouraging is this?

MATS WILANDER: Well, first few games were quite discouraging,
but then, I played all right after the first five games, I think,
but, I don't know. I was playing a little too loose on the big
points in the second set I think, I'm not really sure. Missing
second serves, returning the second serves, easy, so, it wasn't
too good there.

Q. In the first set, did you just feel cold, that you weren't
started or what was going on in the first set?

MATS WILANDER: Well, he started serving pretty good, and then
I lost my serve straight away playing with the wind and that sort
of puts you in a hole straight away. So if you start out terrible
when it's windy like that, it's impossible to feel like you get
the rhythm back and I think I got the rhythm back, but more--
and you know, take the first set and I'll start playing a little
bit better.

Q. You started out on this limited comeback because tennis
is fun. You lost four first round matches this year; is it still
fun?

MATS WILANDER: Well, right now, no, but the times that you play
well, yeah, it's worth it.

Q. How did you feel before this match looking towards the match;
what did you think it was going to be like for you against this
young fellow?

MATS WILANDER: Well, I don't really think about those things.
I'm not worrying about who I'm playing. I know if the guy is doing
good and if he's not doing so good, but I have enough problems
with my own game to worry about what's going to happen and how
the other guy is playing or how he's going to play. So I approach
it as any match or as a practice session and hopefully I hit the
ball pretty good that day, but it didn't happen today.

Q. No sense of nerves as you go onto the court to play a match
like this?

MATS WILANDER: Not really, no, no. I mean, I'm nervous before
every match I play and I think the day that I'm not nervous that
means you don't really care.

Q. That is what I meant.

MATS WILANDER: So, yeah, in that sense I'm a little bit nervous,
but, it's-- it doesn't really bother your game, it more helps
you if you get a good start. Like today I suppose when you get
a really bad start then it just takes a little longer to get into
it.

Q. What is your perspective from now on; will you continue
to play in-- is there a limit for --

MATS WILANDER: No.

Q. What's your opinion of this facility?

MATS WILANDER: I think it's great. It's an unbelievable facility
compared to what it used to be, and I think it makes it even greater
because people remember that-- it's always been a pretty good
tournament and a pretty big tournament and the organization is
good, but you just never had the facilities and I think now when
it's as nice as this, I think people tend to think that it's more--
it's just unbelievable that it finally happened. I think it's
great for the tournament and great for the players.

Q. The quality of the lighting, how good is it?

MATS WILANDER: Yeah, it's pretty good, it's pretty good. I'm an
expert in playing London lights and I played five out of the six
matches or seven matches I played this year under lights, so this
will match up to all the others.

Q. What kind of commitment do you have for the rest of the
year as far as how much should you play or not play?

MATS WILANDER: I'm going to play more claycourt tournaments in
the States and a couple of hardcourts in the summer, Washington,
maybe Indianapolis and Schenectady.

Q. What changed from last year when you were dabbling in it
a little bit and not really declaring a comeback at all and it
was just fun and now you've played six tournaments this year already;
what turned it around for you to make you decide to play a lot
more?

MATS WILANDER: I think last year I enjoyed playing a lot and at
the same time you've got to win match to enjoy it a little more
and the only way to win matches is to play more tournaments--
that how you get the practice to be in a match situation. I think
I've sort of forgotten how to play the big points a little bit
compared to before, but, it is a little harder when you get to
play one or two matches a week and you only play four or five
big points a week before and the only way you get practice for
that is to play a lot of matches. If you lose first round, you
play a lot of tournaments.

Q. You said last year you weren't looking forward to the grind
of traveling, but it looks like you'll have to do that.

MATS WILANDER: Yeah, I have decided to stay in America mainly,
and the travel is not so-- I have basically two hours to anywhere.


Q. You played Coral Springs?

MATS WILANDER: I'm playing there, yes, yeah.

Q. Would that be a preparation for the French Open?

MATS WILANDER: I think all-- the whole claycourt season in the
States is going to decide for me if I'm going to go to the French
or not.

Q. Have you decided in your own game to try to keep to your
old style or to try to change certain aspects of your old style
to a slightly newer pace that may be played now?

MATS WILANDER: I suppose, yeah I suppose I try and change a little
bit, maybe take a risk sooner than I would like to.

Q. You did a couple of times tonight, attacking on maybe big
points where before you might have --

MATS WILANDER: Yeah, I think that-- I don't-- I'm not as comfortable
doing that as waiting for the other guy to do something, but I've
decided I'm not going to just wait and wait and hopefully run
him down or wait until he's going to hit a lot of unforced errors.
I don't want to be in a situation where the guy is hitting big
winners all the time. I'm trying to keep the point as little short
as possible.

Q. Is that because your play has slowed slightly or are the
rackets just a little faster than five years ago when you were
at the peek of your game?

MATS WILANDER: Yeah, I think it's all of that, thanks.

Q. All of the above?

MATS WILANDER: All of the above, yeah. I'm slower.

Q. Mats, when do you turn 30?

MATS WILANDER: August.

Q. Are you eligible to play on the Connors tour if you chose
to and if you were accepted at age 30?

MATS WILANDER: On the Connors tour?

Q. He has a ten stop tour.

MATS WILANDER: Yeah, yeah. No, I don't think so. I don't think
I'd be eligible to play.

Q. I'm not sure what the age is there?

MATS WILANDER: I'm not really one to play those kinds of tournaments.
If I was playing for money, then I would be playing them, because
I'm not making too much this week.

Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT