BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2019
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. FEDERER/K. Edmund   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The start looked a little nervy maybe.  Were you feeling nervous at the start?  
KYLE EDMUND: Well, I want to do well.  So playing Roger, you know, on sort of the main court of the tournament, you always want to do well.  Didn't help myself by basically having a bad start and going down early.  Of course when you go down early against good and big players, it's always hard to come back.  Certainly didn't help things.   
And then got slowly better towards the end of the match and had some more chances.  But, yeah, just always fighting a battle uphill, really.   
 Q.  Roger said that the glare and the bounce of the ball and it all takes time to get used to and was suggesting that that probably had an effect on your start and you needed a good start.  That's what he said.  Would you agree with that?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I mean, sometimes it isn't easy.  A lot of these tournaments these days, every court is different.  So, I mean, that's sort of like a little thing, maybe a little excuse.  But, you know, I'm a professional tennis player.  I sort of want to expect myself to do better and, you know, not go down so easily like that.   
You know, the biggest thing to move forward is to learn from it, really.  That's probably, you know, my first, you could say, match against a very, very top player on a big stage since Novak at Wimbledon.  It's been about eight, nine months where I haven't played a top, top player in a big stage.  Certainly something to learn from.   
You know, I just want to do better next time and hope -- I was hoping for it today, but still not there.   
 Q.  So you hadn't been across the net from him in a match situation.  So this is Roger Federer.  What is it that makes him Roger Federer?  
KYLE EDMUND: Well, to be honest with you, I wasn't really looking at that today.  He was just another player to me.  I have lots of respect for him, but he's just another opponent.  It's too easy to give lots of respect to people these days.   
So off the court, I admire him so much, but on the court I want to beat him.  I don't want to be his mate or anything.  A lot of this stuff for next time, if I was to play him, say, tomorrow, there is lots of stuff I can improve on first before I start looking on the other end, cleaning up a few areas.   
Right at the start the serve wasn't going well but got better towards the end.  Was maybe rushing and trying to press things a little bit too early from the start, but towards the end I allowed the rally to sort of work its way through before I went for my shots.   
There is a lot of things that I'd love to clean up on if I was to, you know, play another match like that soon.   
 Q.  What's next for you now?  Do you go straight to Miami?  Try and practice here where it's quiet?  
KYLE EDMUND: No, I have been here three weeks now, so I will be looking to get off, you know, in the next day or two, at the max.   
Miami, different conditions.  Obviously more humid.  Heavier just because the ball doesn't fly as much.  Different site this year, as well.  I think everyone is keen just to get there and have a feel of it, get the feel of the courts.  Something a little exciting, as well, being at a new venue.   
Yeah, I'll look to head out now and try and just have a new environment, freshens up your mind, as well.   
 Q.  Apart from the disappointment of losing today, you have had a lot of tennis in the last three weeks or so.  What do you take from that spell and how you've kicked on from the injury problems that you had beginning of the year and the illness issues you had last year?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, putting today aside, like last night, for sure, looking at it, it was a very, very positive few weeks for me with the challenger and winning two matches against decent players, and the way I won and controlled the match and how I was on court.   
Very positive.  You know, it's been, like, two weeks of competitive tennis since Australian Open and since my body's felt in a good place again.  So that is positive that it was coping and feeling good, and I was feeling confident in myself with my body.  Those are all tick boxes and my game was getting better and better and in a good place.   
So, you know, that is a positive leave from Indian Wells, and there is lots of stuff to work on from today, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT