AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2019
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. BERDYCH/K. Edmund   
6-3, 6-0, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Must have been disappointing out there.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, obviously not fun.  Not nice losing, of course.  It was like a one-sided defeat, as well.  Clearly not what I wanted.  Not a lot of fun.   
But for me it just shows where I'm at at the minute, my level and stuff, and how much and where I have to improve.  Yeah, just very much just got to let sort of the defeat settle, kind of get back to work and look at where I'm at at the minute with my game, try to get better basically.   
 Q.  You're not a guy that makes excuses.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.   
 Q.  Were you kind of compromised by the knee or are you fully fit out there?  
KYLE EDMUND: Well, like you say, I'm not 100%.  But I'm a lot better than where I was.  I'm working to try and get there.   
But, yeah, I mean, like you said, it's always my choice whether I walk onto court or not.   
 Q.  Was it ever in doubt?  
KYLE EDMUND: What do you mean?   
 Q.  You playing this tournament.  
KYLE EDMUND: Me playing?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
KYLE EDMUND: I was confident, like, I was going to get to a level to get out there.  Just how good I was going to be...   
But these things take time.  The body's not so simple, as you can see with other people.  It's frustrating.  But, like I said, it's my choice to walk out there.   
Yeah, I mean, the third set was good.  I actually created a set point.  Yeah, it just shows where I'm at, shows I need to get a lot better.   
 Q.  Was there anything else you could have done?  Tomas was playing pretty well.  
KYLE EDMUND: Well, I mean, like you said, he's playing well.  It's not easy to do stuff.  Just got to do the best you can.  It's tough to really know what I could have done differently.  I mean, in the third set I made more balls.  You could have said maybe making more balls in the first and second would have stopped the momentum as quick as it was going.   
But in terms of changing the match, it would have to have been something drastically, playing a lot better than how I did.   
 Q.  What are the plans now?  
KYLE EDMUND: Not sure obviously just because it's not long since I come off.  But I'm entered into the European tournaments indoors, then the Masters in North America.   
Pretty much four weeks now till that, so there's a good chunk of time to train or plan the next move.  Yeah, I haven't made a decision right away, but we will during the next few days.  Whatever it is, I've got to keep trying to train and get better and stuff, more confident on court, work on my game.   
Not what I wanted to do, but a good sort of, you know, reality check where I'm at.   
 Q.  Is there a chance you'll stay here and train in the warm where there's players to hit with?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, yeah, definitely an option.   
 Q.  Are you confident that in time you can get back to your best?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I hope so.  I mean, it's not like the worst position I'm at.  But in one way it's frustrating because you can't give a time scale that you'd love to know I'm going to be here, I'm going to be great.  Just think the way the body works is not like that.  Everyone's different, goes at different rates.   
Yeah, I mean, I've still got lots of years to play, so obviously I'm confident I'll be playing at a good standard again.  But you're always itching, competitive, want things done immediately.  You just have to have patience and give stuff time to get better, including my game, doesn't matter.  I've lost matches when I'm fully fit, so I have to work on lots of things to get back where I'm up there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT