FEVER-TREE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2018
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. KYRGIOS/K. Edmund   
7-6, 6-7, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Have you faced many people serving at that level?  I know on grass court you get some big servers, but that was pretty much out there, wasn't it?  
KYLE EDMUND: Good serving, but Gilles Muller, John Isner, you know, pretty good servers, as well.  I have faced good servers.   
But, yeah, a day where you've got to do your best.  You know what to expect, but it's obviously trying to combat that.  That's the many challenges of matches, little battles in the matches which is in pretty much every grass court match, serve-and-return battle, whoever can do that better.  That was obviously a big factor today.   
 Q.  How did you feel about your game today?  How did you feel you played?  
KYLE EDMUND: Not too bad.  I think I stuck in there reasonably well throughout the match.  So, yeah, it was good to get a second set, just keep fighting, fighting spirit.   
It's not bad.  I mean, there weren't too many rallies, not as many as the first match, so it was similar.  I did my job in terms of holding serve.  We both, I think, had one good tiebreak each.  We played well.   
Obviously it was the disappointment from my side was obviously just not controlling my serve to take it further along as in 4 or 5 or 6 on the third.   
 Q.  How about his kind of unusual approach to the game?  Sometimes when he walks into a service return, looks like he doesn't care, and then next minute he's playing an incredible point.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.   
 Q.  Does he put you off at all?  
KYLE EDMUND: No, because, I mean, it's unusual, but it's usual for him, so, yeah.   
 Q.  You haven't played him before?  
KYLE EDMUND: I have.   
 Q.  But not in seniors?  
KYLE EDMUND: I mean, I don't think so, but I have played him, yeah.   
 Q.  Juniors?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.  I mean, he's been that character.  Obviously that's just his character.  There's not too much surprising about him.   
I mean, it's unusual compared to a lot of other people, but it's usual for him.  You just expect that kind of stuff.   
 Q.  When you play against an unpredictable player, do you change your preparations?  
KYLE EDMUND: You said unpredictable?  Well, because it's unpredictable, you obviously can't prepare -- yeah, I don't really know.  Every player has their own style.  It's tough to really prepare for one player.  You always just prepare for yourself and do the best you can.   
But you play so many, throughout your career, you play so many different styles of tennis that you obviously grow an ability to just adapt.  That's the case all the time.  You adapt on different surfaces, different conditions, you adapt to different game styles.  It's always the case with everyone.   
 Q.  Do you feel in the matches you've played so far you're better on grass than you were last year?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, probably.  I feel, yeah, like I have been playing pretty good.  It was a nice run against Ryan.   
And even today, I think I'm improving on grass.  My serve is better.  I'm able to hold better in the service games.  And to be a good grass court player you really have to serve well and return well.  And I think I'm improving as a general.   
So, yeah, this year has been good for me.  Mostly I feel my game is improving on the court, so I think it helps going into the grass.  I mean, yeah, it's always a work in progress, but I feel, yeah, I played reasonably well on the grass.   
Very small margins, you know, one or two points, whatever you want to say.  If I had won today, then I probably definitely would have said, yeah, I have improved.  It's very small margins in tennis, and especially on grass.   
 Q.  What's going to be the coaching situation next week and into Wimbledon.  What are you going to do next week?  
KYLE EDMUND: Hilts will be with me.   
 Q.  And Wimby, as well?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.   
 Q.  Obviously you'll head to Wimbledon.  People have high expectations for you.  What about yourself?  What's your goal going into Wimbledon?  
KYLE EDMUND: All the time I try and put high expectations and also realistic expectations, so it's one of them where I want to obviously do well on the whole, but an individual match like the first round is all that matters, so that's the match I'm obviously going to want to do well.   
You don't go in there going -- well, I certainly don't go in there saying, I want to make quarters this week.  That means winning four or five matches, four matches, so you take one match at a time, so that's pretty much how it's going to be.   
Of course playing in Britain is always a little bit more expectation, more attention on you, more off-court commitments to do, but that's just natural for anyone who's from that country.   
 Q.  Did you have a hit with Romeo Beckham?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.   
 Q.  Can you tell us about that?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, we had a hit and he's a very keen tennis player.  He said he's watched me a lot and wanted to have a hit with me, so it was obviously tough with the timings around the matches, but yeah, we had like a 20-minute hit.   
He said he enjoyed it, but he says he plays every day, so he's obviously keen on the sport, which I guess is pretty cool.   
 Q.  Do you know his dad?  
KYLE EDMUND: Do I know his dad?   
 Q.  Do you remember him much?  
KYLE EDMUND: Of course I remember him.  David Beckham.  Yeah, I know him.  I watched.  But he wasn't there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT