FEVER-TREE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2018
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. EDMUND/R. Harrison   
7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How would you evaluate your performance?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, pretty good.  I'm happy, first win on grass, first match on grass even.  So to come away with a win in your home country, first tournament, very happy.   
It was okay.  A bit frustrating.  I got broke in the first set, like, reasonably comfortably, but, yeah, it was good to get the break back, and then I felt like I relaxed a lot more in the match.   
From then on I felt pretty good, and, yeah, it's good to win tonight and not play tomorrow.   
 Q.  How has your transition been from clay to grass this year?  
KYLE EDMUND: Pretty good.  I mean, I have had a bit of time, which has helped.  Probably about 10 days of training.   
So it's been nice to plan that out.  And the weather has been on our side, so we have basically been able to do whatever we wanted in terms of preparation.   
And physically I felt really good out there.  Moved well, considering it's a pretty fresh grass court.   
Yeah, to play a guy like Ryan, big serve, it's good to get through that and, you know, break him at the end like I did.   
 Q.  Obviously before your match there was Andy.  How good is it to see him back on the court?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, it's great.  For someone to be out nearly a year, it's always good to see him back, but especially someone like Andy who obviously in British tennis is huge.   
And then I guess on a personal level he's always been really good to me, has helped me when I was younger and supported me.   
So when he's been through a tough, you know, stage or period, it's good to see him back.  I think the way the match went today, I don't know, it's almost maybe better than expected to come out first match and put himself in a position to get fairly close to winning.   
I'm sure that first match is probably going to be the toughest.  Good to see him back.   
 Q.  Tomorrow morning, wildcards are announced at Wimbledon.  Dan Evans, what's your take on that subject?  
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know.  I don't really like to comment on that.  It's not my opinion, and I don't really want to give my opinion on that.   
But, I mean, in terms of Evo coming back, he's won a lot of matches, again, having a year out and coming back.  He's pretty much got the ball rolling very quickly and got his ranking pretty high up there in a short space of time.  So him coming back, he's done very well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT