ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2018
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. EDMUND/M. Fucsovics
6-0, 1-6, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Obviously quite an unusual match.  Can you talk us through the ebbs and flows a little bit?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, that's tennis, no?  Ups and downs.  It's very rare for a match to be straightforward, but that's tennis.
Started really well.  I was always aware that, you know, you're not going to win every game and match.  The first game second set was quite key for him, especially serving first, to I guess get on the board and also have that sort of a lead, you know, if it's 1-Love, 1-All, 2-1.  So when he broke for 2-Love and 3-Love, obviously changes the way the match went.
But that's the way it went, and it's all about sort of problem-fixing during the match and it was good, I guess, after the second that, what was it, 6-2 and then 6-3 after that.  So to close it out after that was nice from my point of view.
Q. How much of a distraction was the cut on your finger and...
KYLE EDMUND: Well, it was just a cut that I wanted to make sure it wasn't splitting when I was playing the match.  I mean, once I got it taped, it was okay.
Q. I was going to ask a similar question.  How did you actually get the cut?
KYLE EDMUND: I'm not sure.  It just happened somewhere, and it just started splitting a bit more during the match.
Q. Because I think somebody said it was like a paper, like opening an envelope or something?
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know.
Q. Could it just be wear and tear?
KYLE EDMUND: It's just a paper cut, and, yeah, just obviously playing tennis it starts to split open a bit more.  I just wanted to get it taped.  Nothing more than that.
Q. You must be feeling pretty confident right now.  Do you feel differently at Roland Garros this year than you did last year?  And if so, why?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, more just that I have had another year's experience.  You get a little bit more confident.  You know, years more experience on the tour playing all the top tournaments.  You get a little bit more comfortable with your surroundings.  I guess a little bit smarter on court.  You know that you learn more about yourself off the court and on the court, I guess, as well.
Yeah, it's a constant learning.  It's now my -- I don't actually know how many times I have been here, but the juniors, as well.  You get used to the environment, as well.
Yeah, I mean, it's good that, you know, I won today and I'm just, yeah, happy to get through, really.  Very different match in terms of the Alex match, but every match is different.  You sort of know that.  And you have to get on with it, you know, with what you have on that day.
So today after losing the second, it was good that I sort of, I guess, refocused or regained my form.
Q. You've got Fabio Fognini next, who can be quite unpredictable.  Just some thoughts on that matchup.
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I have not played him before.  Yeah, probably his strongest surface is clay.
So, yeah, it will be a very tough match, for sure.  He plays very well on this surface.  He's had some really good results on this surface.
He's obviously beat Rafa, I think, a few times.  He knows his way on the clay court.
I remember sort of watching that match in Naples when he played Andy.  So, you know, he's very good, very smart on the court.
Yeah, I think in terms of the matchup, I'll speak to my coach probably tomorrow about maybe what I need to try and do.
It's always sort of the same thing.  With me, I try to focus on getting my game out on court first, because that gives me a good chance.  And then certain tactics or plays, you know, you look out for when you're playing the particular opponent, whoever that is.
Q. I think this is the third Grand Slam tournament in a row when you're the last British singles player left in.  Does that make any difference at all to you, or do you just focus entirely on what you're doing?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, you just focus on what you're doing, really.  It doesn't change your way of thinking or anything.  If you're the last or the first to go out or whatever, you're just focusing on your job at hand and getting on with it, really.
Yeah, it's just the way it goes.  You know, unfortunately the nature of British tennis is there is always a fear of you guys that there is not a whole lot.  So at some points, people go out and you stay in, and it's been like that.
I have probably been the first to go out of the Brits before, and someone else has been on their own.  Obviously in Australia and here, I guess I have been the last one to play.
Q. You have found a way to deal with the blips and the setback and bounce back and find a way to win.  When those blips occur, what do you do in between sets?  Do you actually sit down and actually think of certain things that you want to approach the game differently for the next set, or is it just a change of mindset?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, there is obviously a short period where you obviously analyze and you think of what's going on, like you, I guess, when you reset stuff or when you come out for the first game you concentrate on certain things you want to put right.
But you're constantly doing that anyway during the match, just that set is on paper it's a fresh start, but during the set, obviously towards the end of the second set, you're already thinking about why has this turned?  Why is it from being 6-Love up, then you're 5-Love down or 5-1, whatever.  You're constantly doing that.
But, yeah, for the end of the second, I just knew I had to sort of hold that first game, because losing a set 6-1 and then getting broke at the start of the third is not good in terms of momentum.  It was good to hold and it was almost what happened in the third set was what happened for him in the second in terms of me going 3-Love up.
Q. You said already something about Fognini.  What do you remember exactly about him when you saw him playing I think first Murray maybe in Davis Cup in Naples?  And do you know that he is quite temperamental player?  Does it make any difference now?  Do you have to be more concentrated on what you do and without getting distracted if he complains for something?  Is that a worry, or not a worry, and so on?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, obviously, well, you just know what he's like from watching matches.  You know he's an emotional type of player.  So, yeah, that's just the way he is as a personality.
But, you know, the tour is aware of all players and what their attitudes are like or the way they go about things.  That's the way he operates, but that doesn't, you know, necessarily make a difference in terms of your thought process.  You've still got to go in and do your thing.
In terms of his game style, he's very happy with the ball in, likes to build points.  He plays a very well, I'd say, clay court game, likes to have time behind the baseline, doesn't hug it too much.  But he plays with a lot of shape and spin and when the ball is short he moves up, and I think has pretty easy power on the clay.
Yeah, it will be one of them where you do problem-solving on the court, so when you get on the court, you always learn from there.  It's different watching video.  You can only really get a proper sense until you step on the court and see him play.  So I think that would be probably similar for both of us.  But, yeah, you know he's a good player coming on the clay court and you've just got to be ready to go and then give it your best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT