ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2018
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. EDMUND/A. De Minaur
6-2, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Obviously you got some very good sets in the course of this year, but how pleased were you in particular with that first set, seemed to be you at the top of your game?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I played pretty well today.  I was happy with how it came out, really, having that time preparing that was over a week I have been here practicing, so I was just waiting to get going, anticipation, you know, wanting to execute your game well.
So, yeah, lots of sort of feelings going into the match.  Once you get on it was good to really execute well, especially against a guy like Alex where it can get quite tough easily if you don't, you know, play well basically.
So I was pleased with how I managed my game today.  Did the controllables really well in terms of my game and serving well and, you know, when I am on the front foot not laying back on the point.
Overall, yeah, happy with how it went today.
Q. We talked on Saturday about being a seed for the first time, and there is always an extra long buildup to these slams.  Were you nervous?  Did you feel any extra pressure or anything like that?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, you're always, like, excited, anxious to do well.  You know, different, I guess, words you could use, but you're just waiting to go out there.
And it's not the first, you know, match I played, so you know what to sort of expect with the feelings going on.  Always a Grand Slam is, you know, like the big tournaments for tennis players.  Always wanting to do well there, and it has a little bit of extra sort of feeling, you know, to it.
A little bit more buzz around the matches, so that was it, really.  Nothing complicated.
It's not like it's my first time at a Grand Slam or waiting for a first round, so you sort of know what to expect.  Yeah, like I said in the previous question, it's just waiting to go out there and getting on with it and executing.
Q. Would you be looking forward to a bigger stage?  You like to rise to the occasion in big matches.  As intimate as the atmosphere is on Court 3, it might be greater help on a bigger court, perhaps?
KYLE EDMUND: What's the question?  You're saying it's not a big enough court.
Q. Would you be looking forward to playing on a bigger court?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, you play on the court you get put on.  I don't know.  You've got to win on whatever court.  If you only play well on bigger courts then you've got a problem.  You need to play well on whatever court you get put on, and you've got to have a game to do that.
The court doesn't matter to me, whatever round, whatever court it is, you have to go on and do the job and win.  That's my job is to do that, and, yeah, I don't know, really.  Whatever court you get put on, you get on with it.
That's the nature of, I guess, the tennis world is throughout the year you play on many different courts, many different sizes, different size of crowds, and you just have to get on with it, really.
I mean, I liked the court today.  It was good for me in a way.  There was lots of Brits out there; obviously not far from the UK.  So I definitely had the more support advantage, for sure.
Q. Haven't seen you since Saturday night.  Are you over that?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.
Q. What did you make of that?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, obviously, you know, sad to lose and the nature of it was annoying, with sort of like two easy goals in that fashion, and also Salah going off pretty early after what I would say was a good start from Liverpool.
It was just a bit of, like, a sad taste to  sort of lose and not, I don't know, you know, not get beat properly.  I mean, it was two sort of, I guess, goalkeeper errors and one, you know, like amazing goal.  You probably never see something like that in a long time.
It is what it is, isn't it?  We've already signed the guy.  We have two players coming in with Keita and what's his name, Rafin [ph] or something?  Fabinho?  And Fabinho supposedly is coming.  You'll know more than me.
So, yeah, looks like they are hungry to do more, which is good.  But it's never nice losing a Champions League final, is it?
Q. Good to see the local lads coming through, anyway.
KYLE EDMUND: What's that, Trent?
Q. You're ranked No. 1 Brit now in the men's game.  Does that affect your mentality at all, and are you ready for the expectation that comes with that status?
KYLE EDMUND: You're from Yorkshire?
Q. I am, indeed.  Not Beverley, unfortunately.  I usually get Scotland.
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I mean, it's nice to be the No. 1 Brit in terms of -- I mean, I have said when you look back at your career, it's nice to be in the position to be the British No. 1.  I guess it's one of those things where you grow up sort of dream of doing or it would be nice to be in that position.
When you're in it, it's not so much -- it's nice, but it doesn't change anything.  It's still like I have got to keep working and try to get better.  I'm sure for my family and friends and stuff, they're going to be proud of me to be the British No. 1.  When I retire probably looking back it would be something I'd be please with.
But yeah, it's one of those things when you're in it you just keep going.  For me, it's the world ranking you obviously want to try and improve.
At the same time, being British No. 1, the reality is it's a bit of a crossover for me improving but also Andy being injured, that's the reality.  And Andy is, you can safely say, a top 4, top 5 players player, that's pretty much what he's been all his career.
I'd be pretty confident if he wasn't injured he'd still be that.  Yeah, just circumstances.  That's the way it is.  Probably obviously the way it's gone now with Andy obviously not playing very much and me becoming British No. 1 there is just a bit more attention, media, maybe a bit more expectation from people.
But that's just part of the territory with sport.
Q. You talked about how well you served today.  At one point in the first set you seemed to serve a bit too well and follow through and catch yourself on your leg.  Have you done that often?  How did that feel going 200K?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, occasionally I sort of clip my bone, the shin.  It's okay.  Yeah, nothing to really worry about.
Q. Did you have any input into your kit today?  Sort of Sampdoria style.  Any chance of getting more red into it in the future?
KYLE EDMUND: No, got no input.  It's all Nike.  They design it.  These things actually I think get designed like a year or two in advance.
Yeah, nothing, no input.  A fellow player actually commented that it looked like Sampdoria kit before I went on.
Q. Have you played Fucsovics before, and what do you know about him?  He had a good week last week.
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I played him in Winston-Salem I think second round or maybe first round, can't remember.
Yeah, I beat him in straight sets.  I remember playing quite well that day.  I came through quallies, so I had a bit of matches under my belt.  But he improved since then, especially in Australia.  Maybe fourth round against Federer.
Like you said, he won last week, so for sure he's feeling good.  But, yeah, I'm feeling good, as well.  It's just one of those matches, sort of similar approach to today, where you just have to go in there and put out your A game and see where that is.
So you obviously analyze it in terms of matchups and maybe tactics, but I try not to analyze it too much and just go out there and play my game and trust it, basically.
Q. To clarify one more thing about Saturday night, not to reflect on it too much.  What was the setup you had?  There seemed to be other players there.  Did you hire a room somewhere?
KYLE EDMUND: No, it was just The Bureau, I think, it's called.  It's just like a pub, around the corner from the hotel.  Quite a few of the guys turned up.  Obviously the Liverpool guys, Smethurst was there, some of the coaches.  Aljaz was there, actually.  Who else turned up?  Struff.  Yeah, it was just the mixture of it.
I think Ken sort of mainly organized it and must have got together and people asking where you watching, and people say this and people turned up.  My coach was there.  It was good to have some atmosphere and watch it, you know, throughout the game.
But, yeah, it was good to -- I mean, it was good, like, enjoyable to be there with the guys, but not at the end (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT