MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 9, 2018
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. EDMUND/N. Djokovic
6-3, 2-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What does it mean for you to beat the two-time former champion, Novak Djokovic, here in Madrid?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, it's a great win for me.  I mean, he's like won this event twice, like you said.  It's obviously more than that.  He's a legend of the game.  One of the best tennis players of all time.  So, yeah, it's a really good win for me.
Pleased with, you know, the way my game's developing, that I'm able to beat a player like that.  So does me the world of good in lots of ways:  confidence, belief.  It's just a really good win for me.
First time on that court, so it was obviously a good experience being out there.  So it's nice.  At the start of the year, I reached a good tournament in Australian Open.  It's good to obviously continue to have results throughout the year and not just one-offs, but a nice progression.
It was good.  Just all in all happy.
Q. His level went up in the second set, then you turned things round in the third.  What was sort of the key point for you?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, in the match when someone got a lead in a set, it was tough to then break them down in terms of switch the momentum.  The player very much took the momentum, went with it.  In the first set I was able to obviously break him, break twice.  He did a similar thing in the second set.
I knew, like, the first game was important after he held and took the set.  So making sure I was in a lead in the third set was something I thought about, not getting broken too early.
So to hold I think it was Love, maybe 15 in the first game, then to hold at Love-40 was obviously big as well at 2-All.  So those games were key.
Basically at 4-3, that end I was at was a tougher end to break just because the wind was against you.  Down the other end was more of a chance.  I just sort of forced myself to go for it a bit more.  Got lucky at, yeah, 15-Love, then hit a good backhand line I think at 30-All.
Yeah, I sort of forced myself to not, you know, get tight in the situation.
Q. Where would you say that win ranks in your career so far?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, it's definitely up there.  I mean, in terms of I guess a name, one of the biggest names I've beaten, for sure.  I guess I've had a better win on paper.
You know, to beat a big name, you know what he's done in the game, the pressures that come with that.  When you put yourself in a situation to win, you're close, but you're not really because there's still lots of work to do.  It was good that I performed under pressure, came up with some good tennis when I needed to.
Q. You came into this match with a Love-3 head-to-head record against Novak.  Obviously it's not quite the same Novak playing these days.  In the back of your mind, did you come into this match thinking you had a better chance?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, I think I played him Indian Wells last year.  So it's been, what, a year and a bit since then for me personally.  So that's what I focused on.  I knew that I've had a lot of experience since then in terms I've gained more of a repertoire in my game, got I guess a wiser head on my shoulders.
That's what I focused on.  I've had more experience in that environment, in those pressure situations.  I got a lot from Melbourne this year.  So that was more of my feeling, that playing him three times was nice in terms of knowing what to expect in the ball speed and the way he plays, but just in terms of belief in taking confidence from previous situations.  I knew if I put myself in the match, I would have a good chance of winning.
Q. You played brilliantly.  But for us outside, we were trying to work out what it is with Novak, why he's not winning as much as he was before.  For you, when you played him a long time ago, maybe didn't have such a good time as you did today, can you give us some idea maybe differences you feel playing against him?
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know.  I think that's a bit of an unfair question.  I just have to focus on myself and play my game.  Every week there's a different opponent down the end, so you just have to do your best.
It's not really for me to answer that question.  I guess it's up to you guys to answer that.  But I have to focus on myself.
He's still a very good player, 11 or 12 in the world.  I don't know what he is.  Anyone in tennis will still know he's playing a pretty good level.
Q. Novak was very complimentary of you after the match.  He said he thought you were playing the best tennis of your life, was really impressed with how much your backhand had improved since you last played.  What does it mean to you hearing someone like that speak so highly of you?  Do you agree with him:  are you playing the best tennis of your life?
KYLE EDMUND: All in all, yeah, I'm probably playing the highest level, and consistency.  So I'm able to get a lot more wins obviously this year at a high level.
But, yeah, I mean, it just shows even though I'm playing at a better level this year, you still lose.  So you still have your ups and your downs.  It's still important for people, well, myself, to realize, and I do.  It's that constant work in progress.
I'm having a good year, but nothing's perfect.  So you're always trying to drive to be better.  It's nice to get that win.  Like you said, it's nice to hear things from Novak, complimentary.  He obviously just wouldn't say that, especially with his standards throughout his career.
Yeah, in some way it's really good, but in another way, I've had some compliments before.  In a personal point of view, it's nice to have compliments, but it doesn't feel good when you don't take that into wins.  It's sort of like, Oh, you play well, but I haven't been winning.  That was something last year.  Obviously this year I wanted to put it right, that I lost a few tough matches, it was close.  But now it's good to have some wins.  It's just good.
Q. You have David Goffin next.  Your thoughts?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, last time I played him, the only time I played him, was obviously at that Davis Cup match.  Very intense match.  Big experience for me playing obviously my first Davis Cup in the Final away in Belgium.  So much experience learnt from that.
Yeah, there's not too much in terms of history with him, I guess.  Just that once.  So, yeah, I'll think about it and talk to my coach a little bit later or tomorrow, talk about the game.  Yeah, I mean, just enjoy this one for the time being, the little time we have.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT