AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2018
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. EDMUND/G. Dimitrov
6-4, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You expect someone playing their first Grand Slam quarterfinal to be nervous, but it really didn't seem very often that you were at all.  How was it for you?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, we just talked about it with my coach.  It's totally normal to feel nervous.  As an emotion, as a human being, it's normal.
I just accepted that and just had things in place to basically deal with it.  It's not like I walked on court being nervous first time in my life.  You still go on there and play your game.  Today I just really did well at that.  I'm aware of the occasion, but really just tried to focus on my tennis, enjoy it as much as possible.
Yeah, it was a great feeling out there.
Q. You have been very levelheaded throughout the whole run.  Do you have a bit of a feeling you need to pinch yourself that this has happened?
KYLE EDMUND: Obviously, yeah.  I am loving it right now, just the way I'm playing.  I'm 23 years old, my first Grand Slam semifinal.  First time I played on one of the biggest courts in the world.  To beat a quality of player like Grigor.  Of course, all these things I'm aware of.  They're great feelings.  You don't obviously play in the semifinals of a Grand Slam every day, or a quarters like today.
So, yeah, I just try to enjoy it as much as possible, like I said.  I knew I was in a good place.  There's no reason why my tennis wasn't good enough to win.  It's obviously about going out there and doing it.
Q. Did you ever imagine it would feel this good?
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know, because never had it.  I didn't know what to expect.
Of course, I didn't really think about how good it would feel because then you're sort of letting your mind wander a bit too far ahead instead of staying in the present.
Yeah, that's the way I approached it.  At the end when that ball was out, it was such a good, you know, feeling for me knowing that I'd won the match and through to my first semis.  Yeah, I was really happy with it.  Trying to enjoy as much today as possible.
It's important just to move on.  Another tennis match on Thursday.  Really I can go out there and do my best.  I'm in a good place.
Q. What made the difference today compared with the match in Brisbane, for example?
KYLE EDMUND: Not too much.  The match in Brisbane was tight.  Not too much in it.  Today was sort of similar.  I don't know.  Maybe just in the key moments I maybe stepped up well and was brave, really went for my shots, and they came good.  I believed that I could pull off some good stuff.
The last two sets were sort of more about that.  I started well in the first set.  That was more of my start, though, to the match that got me that set.
In the second, to break him, then serve it out, to play a good game like that...  Okay, I broke, got broken back, but I thought I played good tennis, took the ball on when I needed to, and it came good for me.
To serve out the match was also really good for me under that sort of pressure, I guess.
Q. How does it feel to know when you walk on court, your forehand is now regarded as one of the most destructive shots in the game?
KYLE EDMUND: I've known -- I've believed always.  I mean, I know I have a big shot in that.  I know my game.  It's nothing new to me.  So I know what I need to do out there:  go out there and work out ways to get my forehand, work out ways best how to use it.
As I get older, wiser, more experience, I'm learning how to use it more effectively.  So, yeah, I mean, I have really big confidence in it.
Again, it's a balance.  Sometimes it can be a bad shot for me because I miss, but sometimes it can work really well.
Yeah, it's nothing really new to me.  That's the way I've played my game.
Q. Do you feel like you can win it, as in:  Why not me?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, well, I got asked this question the last press conference.  I don't think about:  I'm going to win it.  I think the next match is in my head.  I believe I can win that, like today and every other match.  I haven't approached it any differently.
I've gone in there knowing where my game is at, knowing what I want to do on court, not taking anything for granted.  The opponent down there the other end is there for a reason.  He's on his merit to be there.
Yeah, I go in there, do what I need to do, play my game as best as I can, then move on to the next one.  Match by match, that's key for me really, not thinking too far ahead.
Q. You mentioned on court about idolizing players when you were a kid.  Who did you idolize and why?
KYLE EDMUND: Just the top guys.  The British guys, as well, because you have more of a connection with them.  Like Greg, Tim and Andy when I was younger.  Yeah, you just watch players when they're in the quarters and semis and finals of slams, seeing that occasion.  You know, I've watched highlights of plenty of guys in those situations.  That's where you want to be.  That's where the best tennis is played, in the latter stages of slams and stuff.
I think if you try to pick out guys that I enjoyed watching, I enjoyed watching Safin just because of the way he played.  He was a very explosive, powerful player.  On his day, he could be really good.  I like Gonzo, as well, just because of his forehand and stuff.  Probably the players I like to watch is how I like to play, you could say.
Q. Did you know Tim was going to be here?  Did you speak with him?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I knew he was here.  While I was having food before the match, he came up and said good luck.  Yeah, I knew he was going to watch, which is pretty cool to see him watching, along with Phil and Jill there, as well.
Q. You haven't seen him afterwards?
KYLE EDMUND: No.
Q. What were your tennis dreams when you were a kid?  What did you dream of achieving?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, you just dream of lots of things.  It's all a dream.  But until it becomes a reality, then it really hits you.
You dream of playing in Grand Slams, first of all.  I've done that.  Like hitting with the top guys.  First I remember being a practice partner for, you know, like Andy and Rafa and Roger, to warm then up.  Then suddenly you're playing these guys.  At first, you know, it's a bit surreal.  Then you take it in your stride.  That competitive instinct comes in.  You want to beat them.
A dream was to play for my country.  I've done that.  But, yeah, again, of course the big one is to be in Grand Slam finals.  Obviously a dream is to win them.  When you're serious about it, you really don't think about it like that.  You think about the process to get there.
Q. Do you have any sporting idols outside of tennis?
KYLE EDMUND: Not too much.  Not like idols.  But I just loved sport.  You know, I really try and follow lots of sports, as much as possible.  Like, for instance, obviously like my cars and bikes and stuff.  I always watched the Isle of Man TT.  I don't know if any of you are familiar with Michael Dunlop, John McGuinness.  When I watch them, amazing.
I obviously watch the cricket.  I was in an restaurant the other day and Ricky Ponting walked in.  He's like one of the biggest Aussie legends.  It was like, Oh, there is Ricky Ponting.  Fidde had no idea who he was.  Because I follow sports, I idolize him.  I am aware of him and how good they are in sport.
It was really nice to see Tim watching today.  He's obviously massive in British tennis.  To play my first quarterfinal, him watching, it's pretty cool.
Q. How good a cricket player were you?
KYLE EDMUND: I was in school.  I really enjoyed playing that.  Batted and bowled.  Yeah, I was sort of county level at that age.  Yeah, when I was probably 12 or 13, then obviously I took tennis seriously.
Q. Was that a tough choice?
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know really.  It wasn't too tough.  I think I just probably chose tennis more because it was an individual sport, had more ownership.  But, yeah, I definitely loved playing cricket and rugby and stuff at school.
Yeah, I don't really know why tennis.  Maybe just because I did tennis out of school.  Everything else was in school.  It was sort of something I did on the side.  To do something on the side, take it more seriously was maybe a bit more appealing.
Q. Did Ricky Ponting recognize you?
KYLE EDMUND: No.
Q. Are you feeling like people in Melbourne are taking more notice of who you are?
KYLE EDMUND: Maybe, I don't know.  Depends if they're watching stuff.  The England cricketers actually, they're probably watching in between games.
But, yeah, I mean, I've been to the Crown a few nights to have a few dinners there.  Occasionally you get people coming up to you.  But, yeah, I imagine probably a bit more now.
Q. If it is Rafa, how exciting would that be, to play the world No. 1?
KYLE EDMUND: Of course, it would be an amazing experience to play someone like him.  The good thing is I sort of had a good, close match against him in Monte-Carlo.  That was a great experience for me there.  Of course, yeah, I'll just take it in my stride.
The main thing I focus on is I'm in a good place.  There's no reason why I can't go out there and put a good level on the court, enjoy the occasion again.  A semis of a Grand Slam, yeah, it's a great feeling.  Just try to take it in my stride as best as I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT