BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 6, 2018
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. DIMITROV/K. Edmund   
6-3, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How is it feeling?  
KYLE EDMUND: My ankle?  Yeah, sore.  Yeah, I rolled it.  So it's going to be a bit sore.  And tomorrow when I wake up it will be sore again.  So it's just what happens.   
 Q.  Nothing to worry about particularly?  
KYLE EDMUND: No.  Well, just basically rolled it.  So, yeah, just, obviously, the ligaments don't like to be overextended.  So it will be sore for a couple of days and then it will die down.   
But yeah, it's nothing.  It's basically just a rolled ankle.  Nothing more.   
 Q.  Will it interrupt your preparation for Melbourne?  
KYLE EDMUND: Well, in a week's time it will be fine.  So yeah, yeah, that's basically it.  I rolled it and it will be a bit sore, bit tender, and then it will just die down with the swelling.   
But, yeah, Melbourne will be fine.  But, yeah, Auckland next week is sooner, so hopefully by Tuesday it will settle down enough to feel okay.   
 Q.  Are you disappointed it interrupted you tonight thought.  That match was looking like you had a pretty good conclusion.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, it's a shame it happened like that, but what do you do?  It's sport.  It happens.   
So, yeah, I don't know what to say.  It's annoying it happened, but I'm not going to sit here and say it cost me the game.  Strapped up, went on.   
It's not like -- you know, it's a sore ankle.  It's not like it's anything like -- you know, I don't know.  It's just a sore ankle and what do you do?  You just get on with it and do your best and whatever happens, happens.   
The match, apart from that, was a good match.  You know, we talked about that.  It was a good match, I thought.  I played well.  He played well.  We were both really into it.   
From my side of things personally, it was a lot of positives.  Lot of stuff I'm working on that really showed against, you know, top player, No. 3 in the world.  So, from my end, it was good positives this week against three top players.   
 Q.  You probably weren't thinking about this when you were lying on your back, but were you amazed how quickly he got to you?  Grigor?  Because he was there in, like, two seconds.  
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know.  I haven't really thought about that.  He just showed his concern, I guess, which is good.  It's not really nice-guy sportsmanship, and it's good to have someone like that.   
But he's always been like that, Grigor.  He's been a good guy on and off the court.   
So, yeah, it's good to that someone is concerned about you, but as tennis players you generally are.  I think somebody's got to be a right -- (laughter) -- to not really show any, like, you know, concern when someone's just gone over.   
So, yeah, most people would have done that, but it's nice to see him get up and help me to the chair.   
 Q.  Do you know he hurdled the net?  
KYLE EDMUND: No, I didn't know.   
 Q.  You've got to watch the video.  
KYLE EDMUND: Oh, really?   
 Q.  When you went down, I think the TV picked you up and sort of heard you saying that you said to the physio, I heard a crack.  Is that right?  Did you hear something?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, yeah.  Yeah, it just made a crack like -- I don't know -- like your fingers crack and stuff.  It's like the bones, the joints, you know, when it's extended, it just cracks, but that's it.   
But it's like if you wake up in the morning, like, and you start walking, your ankles crack or whatever.  But it's just normal the way the body works when it's -- the joints, there's like fluid in the joints and stuff.  So when you make certain movements, it just has a crack.  That's when you hear that sound.  It's joints and air basically popping.   
So, yeah, just because the ankle got extended a bit too much and that was it really.  It wasn't a crack because of my bone basically cracked off or anything.  It was nothing like that.   
But I've obviously done it twice before.  This is my third time.  So from the past, the next morning it's a bit tender but then, after a day or two, it settles down.  Basically, it's just a rolled ankle.  That's what it is.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT