BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 4, 2018
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. EDMUND/H. Chung
7-6, 5-7, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You must have been pleased with the way you turned that around after letting that second set slip away a bit?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, it was good.  Yeah.  Just he got a lot of momentum at the end of the second.  Broke me twice pretty quickly.
So it was a good third set.  I was able to -- the first few games of the third set were okay, just sort of managing it.  But, you know, I made an effort to really try and step up the intensity and energy and put some pressure on him.
And it was good because the way I was serving in that third set, I knew if I got a break I was going to have a very good chance at holding out.
Q. We saw your reaction at the end when you threw out your arm in celebration.  Is that part of a conscious effort to become more sort of vocal and animated on the court?
KYLE EDMUND: No, not really.  It's just I'm excited that I won, really.  Those things just sort of come naturally if you're excited.  Just like you're happy you won, let out a bit of positive emotion.  But, yeah.
Q. You say that but they haven't always been that to you maybe.
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I don't know.  I don't think about it too much.  Just I was happy I won.  Served out a good match.  And at the end, three aces.  And, you know, close pressure match.  So I was happy that I won basically, yeah.
Q. He's not far away from you in age is he?  He's somebody you have played quite a bit.  Is he getting better?  You had an easier match against him last year.
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, exactly.  These guys, I mean, last match, you know, against Denis and today, these guys I'll play them a lot more, because they're around my age, for the next 10 to 12 years.
Like, you know, the guys at the top like Andy, Rafa, Novak, Roger, those guys have got big head-to-head records.  That's probably going to be similar against these guys, Denis and Hyeon today.
All those guys at the top like Nick and Sascha, if we're all improving and getting to the tournaments, we're going to be playing each other a lot.  So, yeah, it's obviously important to keep improving and looking at who else is doing what.
Q. You probably heard that Andy pulled out of the Australian Open and you'll be carrying the flag, I guess.  Could you just give us your thoughts on how you feel, you know, about Andy's predicament and also about your preparation for the Australian Open and where you're at in that regard?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, of course, I'm looking forward to it.  Yeah, I'm still pretty young, so every tournament I go back to, I'm trying to get better and better.
And, you know, definitely my best tennis is ahead of me, so I'm always trying to improve and improve on my results.  And going further in, obviously, Slams is the pinnacle of tennis, so that's what you want to be doing well.
But, yeah, I'm just really working hard at my game.  Yeah, it's good for me, exciting that I've got a new team around me, trying to really work hard at stuff.  So, yeah, I definitely feel a difference on the court.
And, like, at this top level, it's just really small adjustments.  But they feel good when they all come together and they piece together.
And that's, I think, the way sports works in general.  It's not massive changes.  When probably a player says they're not playing well or don't feel well, it's when all of these things are not coming together.  But when they do, it feels like you're making progress and that's exciting.  So, yes, when I get to the Open, that's what I'll be looking to do.
But it's just more opportunities that's good for me to really get out there and do well.
Q. Would it be slightly odd Andy not being there?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, I don't know.  I mean, you want him there.  It's not -- I don't know if "odd" is the word, because you always concentrate on yourself.
Q. True.
KYLE EDMUND: You would like to see him playing but, unfortunately, he hasn't been around the last six months.  So, you know, I've played tournaments without him there before.  So it's just one of those unfortunate things.
Q. Could you please talk about how you match up if you play Dimitrov and, secondly, if you were to play Millman?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, I've played John three times now and not beaten him.  So he's another guy that makes lots of balls, is a very physical player.  Really, you know, good fighting spirit.  And I get on really well with Mitch off the court, so it would be almost like playing a mate.
And Grigor, again, I had a tough one against him in Washington, three sets.  So, yeah, I remember playing a good match there.  But he had a really good back end to last year, so he's feeling confident coming into this year.
So both would be tough matches.  I mean, this tournament is a strong tournament so you expect all matches to be tough, to be honest.
Q. The Dimitrov match was last year in Washington?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT