AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2017
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. YOUNG/K. Edmund
6-4, 3-6, 6-3
Q. A tough day.  How concerned are you at the number of matches you will have played on grass going into Wimbledon now?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, I have played two matches.  I mean, some people may not even play two matches.  It's just the nature of the grass court season that they are so quick.
You know, you obviously try and play as much matches as you can, basically.  I mean, I was going to say there are only two opportunities.  There is more if you play challengers, but in terms of tour events I have only played two.
It is what it is.  I mean, just because -- like, for instance, US Open, I had only won one match in a few, and I had a good run there.  Basically I'm saying just because I haven't played a lot of matches doesn't mean I cannot do well basically.  Yeah, just need to find a few things why I have lost these couple of matches the last two weeks and try and do better.  They have both been quite tight, three sets, 4 in the third and 3 in the third today.  Break up, as well.  You know, definitely doing some good stuff but just need to do it all the way through, basically.
Q. You split with your coach a week before Wimbledon.  Some might say that's not brilliant timing.  What's your thinking?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, some don't make the decisions.  That's a decision I make.
It's just something that I felt I wanted.  You know, do you make decisions based on timing or what people think?  You know, I made the decision that I sort of -- I obviously made the decision, so I could have, in my head, gone, Let's make it after Wimbledon.  But then I'm playing two tournaments knowing that something is going to happen after the end of the two weeks or I could make the decision now and answer a few questions about it.  That's the decision I took, basically.
Q. So what was your thinking?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, respectfully I won't tell you exactly the thoughts just because I want to keep them to myself, but it was something that I felt -- you know, everyone has, like, their own way of thinking.  I felt I wanted a fresh voice.
You know, sometimes a coaching split is not necessarily because anyone is doing anything wrong or something.  Sometimes it's just nice to have a change and like a fresh view on things.
That's something I wanted, basically.  So from now there is obviously like a long-term plan I need to put in place but also sort of a short-term plan.  I won't make a decision now before the end of Wimbledon.  I will play Wimbledon on my own.  But probably into the America trip I will try and put in a bit of a plan, because it's such a long trip.  Obviously, yeah, I will be looking for something more long term.
Q. Leon will be sitting in the seat for the time being?
KYLE EDMUND: No.  Like today wasn't because I said, Can you help me?  I think it was just because -- you know, he normally sits in the seat basically, like even when Ryan was there.  It's just more theirs and British Davis Cup captain and stuff.
Q. If you asked him to scout a first round of Wimbledon or something, is that a possibility?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I have said to him, If I need, like, a second eye with some help -- but he already said that to me.  He has no problem helping where I want.  It's my decision if I want some help or I want to be on my own.  Like when I was with Ryan, I did a few weeks in the calendar with him anyway just to vary it up.  And I have known Leon a long time, so it's fine.
I don't know the answers in, yes, he's definitely going to help me or not.  It's just more if I feel I need him with a little bit of help or what do you think of this sort of thing.  He's already said there's no problem with that.
Q. You obviously know Dan pretty well.  I just wanted to know how you took the news last week, if you have spoken to him?
KYLE EDMUND: No, I haven't spoken to him.  I don't think anyone has spoken to him, to be honest.  Yeah, just unfortunate, really.  Just a bit of a downer to see sort of news like that.
You know, no need to sit here and say he shouldn't have done it or he's been a bad person.  You know, he knows himself what he's done.  You know, at the end of the day it's his decision.  It's his career; it's not my career.  I don't need to even say what's happened.
Yeah, it's just nothing really to say.  Is what it is.  I guess now what everyone is waiting on is sort of how long the ban will be.
Q. A blow for the Davis Cup team, right?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.  I only actually really thought about it the other day that he probably won't be around for that.  When you see that information, it's not the first thing you think about is that.  It's sort of when you see that you think about things around it, like, there's no, Oh, he won't be available for Davis Cup.
So, yeah.  We'll see, I guess.  The other side of it is it maybe give somebody else an opportunity, someone like Norrie, Cameron.  Obviously Jay Clarke has been a hitter.  I guess the positives is looking at there might be an opportunity.
But the other side of it is Dan is an experienced Davis Cup player, so, you know, it will be basically less options.
Q. How hard is it as a young man in a professional sport to avoid temptations which can take you away from focusing on your career?  How hard do you find it, going out with mates or whatever?
KYLE EDMUND: I think it's just more the individual.  I mean, I don't find it hard not to go out and drink.  I have always been quite good at that, if I'm honest.  I'm not really going out.  I mean, the other side is going out can be good for someone to relax, but I just -- I haven't needed the temptation to do anything like that.
So I don't find it hard not to.  I mean, some individuals might really have to be disciplined because they really, you know, feel the need to.  But, yeah, it's always been quite clear for me that I have to try and do a lot of things off court best I can to try and help me on the court.
Yeah, for me it's okay, basically.  All that other -- I mean, obviously Dan has taken it to an extreme, but yeah, in terms of sort of going out -- I do miss spending time with friends, but it's a decision I made.  You know, it's the career I chose.  Got no regrets about doing that, for sure.  The way I look at it is once I'm done, there's plenty of time to spend around mates.
Q. Can you talk about Dan's experience in Davis Cup.  What about in terms of personality-wise?  What's it like having a guy like him around on the team on those trips?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, that's the thing.  He's just really good.  I was speaking to someone the other day that if he came in right now, we'd probably be laughing at him, you know, just because of his character.  You know, he's a funny guy and he's easy to get along with.  He's just -- you know, he just has another side to him that really just like to enjoy himself.  Like I said, he's just taken it too far this time.
Yeah, there's no problem with him.  Everyone really likes him.  Well, as far as I know.  I know all the British guys on the Davis Cup team always really like him.  Yeah, just one of those things that he's done, basically.
Q. You've got one of the biggest forehands on tour.  A missile at times.  You miscued it today.  Do you find it difficult to time it on grass, or is it just...
KYLE EDMUND: No, not today.  I have been happening a few times more than I would like this year.  Something I'm constantly trying to fix up.  And when I play my best tennis is when my form is really on cue and firing.  It's just been a few matches where I've liked to, at certain stages, just basically make it.
I feel a few times it's been letting me down.  Hasn't been accurate enough in certain times.  So it's something -- I don't think today specifically.  It's just something in general that I would have liked to have got better.
So, yeah, it's not like I'm hitting it badly.  Just margins are so small at the top of the game that you really have to nail it.  Yeah.
Q. Regarding Dan, you said you haven't spoken to him and nobody else had.  Is that a collective disappointment or just because there is nothing to say?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, I mean, I haven't seen him, first of all, so he's obviously not around at the tournaments because I'm at tournaments, at Queen's and here.
So I haven't seen him.  He's obviously -- well, he's been injured, so I haven't seen him before that.  And obviously since the announcement, he's not going to surround himself in tournament venues.  Only way I could have spoken to him is maybe sent him a text, but I haven't sent him a text just because -- yeah, I don't really know what to say.  Or he might -- probably he might want to just be left alone.
So, yeah.  I could have maybe said sorry to hear the news or something.  But, yeah, I haven't.  If I saw him, like, now, I'd still get along with him fine.  Like I said, it isn't easy.  Once it's out what he's done, he knows he's made a mistake.
Q. On a lighter note, the club is bringing out a book to celebrate the completion of the redevelopment here, so I just wonder if you could give us a memory or recollection or an anecdote or reflection on some of your experiences here.
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I mean, like I think it's great that the tournament has come back to Eastbourne, because it was in Nottingham last two years.  When I found that out, like I thought it was the correct decision.  I think it's good that it's here.
I have been at Nottingham loads of times during my junior career.  I just find this place very nice.  You get a lot of support here.  Like today, I mean, the weather helps, but, you know, it's a good atmosphere.
Like I said, it's the first time I have seen the new structure.  I was speaking to -- what's the name, John?  Do you know John, the guy in the changing room.  He's always there.
Q. Two Johns.
KYLE EDMUND: Oh, is there two Johns?  I was saying it's a shame because sometimes it's nice to keep, like, the pavilion.  It's nice to keep old-school stuff, as in old school.
But the new facilities, like the lounge and the changing room is really good.  I think it's also nice to see tournaments or clubs that put in money, also shows they are really keen to improve the tournament and the site, which is good to see when you see clubs wanting to improve and not staying the same.
I got my first tour win here, as well.  I always remember that.  So it's nice to come back, but next year I will definitely be coming back.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT