AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2017
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. SHAPOVALOV/K. Edmund   
7-6, 4-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously very disappointing loss.  What was the key of the match?  Really on serve most of the time.  What did you miss in the end?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, exactly.  Obviously the match was dominated by the serve and the aggressor behind the serve.  That was, you know, the way that really the whole match went.  Wasn't a lot of rhythm in the whole match.  Very short rallies.   
So yeah.  Just very basically whoever could get on top was winning a lot of points.  But obviously with the serve, the person serving could get on top of the points first.   
It was obviously who could get, you know, take chances or create chances, you know, more was going to win.  Yeah, basically, it was not really a lot in the match.  But, yeah, just the last game cost me.   
 Q.  Do you think you could recognize two or three points that you think if I had won those points...  
KYLE EDMUND: Well, basically the key points.  Some 30-All points would be nice to win.   
I don't know if I had a break point in the first set.  I think I did maybe.  So, yeah, just points like that basically.  If I can win those key points, then obviously it would help me a lot.   
 Q.  What happened in Ottawa overshadowed what we know about him as a player and talent.  Can you sort of sum up what his qualities are and why he's such a difficult opponent?  
KYLE EDMUND: Well, he just played aggressively.  We both played aggressively.  Yeah, that's basically -- he's an aggressive player.  We both are.  We are both probably quite similar in the way we play.   
Yeah, it's my first match on grass after coming off the clay, so you don't expect to play, you know, your best tennis first match, and certainly was the case today.  Just got going in some areas when I didn't need to -- you know, maybe a little bit more sharper in my match.  You know, I don't know, put it like if you're crafty, when you're match tight, you can read players a lot better basically.   
He's been playing a few matches on the grass, which I think probably helped him.  Yeah, it was basically how he was in Ottawa, trying to be aggressive.  He will hit some winners, make some errors.  Yeah, that's how he is.   
 Q.  Are you quite impressed with how he's bounced back since the infamous incident in Ottawa?  
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know.  I haven't really been looking at his results.  I don't know if he's been winning or losing.  Yeah, I don't know.   
I mean, yeah, just got on with it, basically.  I think he has.  I have.  So, yeah, whatever happened happened and learned from it and moved on.  I think that's basically it.   
 Q.  You mentioned coming from clay, moving to grass, realizing that maybe you're not playing your best tennis, but do you think that mindset factored in a little bit to how you played today?  
KYLE EDMUND: What mindset?   
 Q.  Thinking, well, I'm not going to play my best tennis on grass because I'm just coming off of clay?  
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know.  I want to play my best tennis.  I always try to, but I don't know.  I have never thought of it that way, that because I'm playing my first match I'm probably not going to play well.  I never really thought of it that way.   
You know, you just try and do your best basically and try and play your best tennis.  I don't think anyone says they played their best match on their first match from a different surface.  Yeah, it just showed today I just, a few errors when I wish I hadn't done, but it can only get better, really.  More practice, more matches after this.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to Wimbledon, you have never won a match at the main draw there.  Do you feel that comfortable on grass in general?  How much kind of match practice do you feel you need to get to the same sort of level as you've been at other slams?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, just one match at a time, basically.  I have lost matches on grass; I have won matches on grass.  So, yeah, I don't think grass has anything to do with it.  It's the same for everyone.  Same surface.  You know, it's just whoever plays best, basically.   
When I get asked, grass is the weakest surface, well, it's the same for everyone.  Clay is my best surface, but this year I lost to a guy ranked about 280 in the world on the clay.  You can lose on your best surface and you can win on your least surface.  Just how well you prepare, how well you're playing, how well you're feeling.  You know, it's just basically how well you do.   
If someone asks you, What's Rafa's weakest surface?  Everyone is going to go, Grass.  But he's won two Wimbledons, which shows that just because you think or people think that you're not as good as that on that surface doesn't mean you can't play on it.  I try and view it that way, that it's just a different surface.  But it has its disadvantages and advantages.  Every surface does.  So it's how well you can buy into your game to get the best out of the court.   
 Q.  You had a good run last year.  Then it disappears very quickly.  Does it make it more frustrating?  
KYLE EDMUND: Well, he held at 4-All, and then obviously I think I made an unforced error on the first point and two double faults.  That's basically it.  Doesn't help to play those points obviously when you haven't got much margin for error if you lose those points.  But, yeah, it's a tennis match, so just gotta try not do it again, which will definitely help me.   
 Q.  Preparation for Wimbledon?  
KYLE EDMUND: I'm playing doubles here with Kokkinakis.  I will be playing here tomorrow.  And I'm obviously playing Eastbourne and Wimbledon.  So, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT