AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2017
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. CARRENO BUSTA/K. Edmund   
6-2, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The problem you had with your foot in the first set, did that contribute to your loss?  
KYLE EDMUND: Oh, no.  It's just something I needed to just tape up.  My nail.  I was fine after that.   
 Q.  So what happened out there?  
KYLE EDMUND: Well, I just didn't play good enough today.  He also played pretty good tennis, to be honest.  I just felt like I didn't put out a good enough level to win.   
So, yeah, just inconsistency didn't help.  I didn't build up enough pressure.  I did have some chances, some break points, but yeah, just didn't convert them.  I felt I should have, but I didn't in the end.   
So, yeah, just inconsistency today in a few areas.  You know, I served -- the games I got broken I didn't serve well on those games.  I'm obviously disappointed that I lost.   
But, yeah, just, I need to learn from it and move on.   
 Q.  Were you surprised that you dipped, I guess, since your first-round performance?  Because your consistency has been improving.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I mean, it has improved.  It's not perfect.  Always want to try and get better.   
But, yeah, it's just a disappointing match, basically.  Yeah, it's one match I have lost that I wish I could have done better on, and I will get better from it.   
So, yeah, there's not much really to say.  I just played a poor match, really.  There is no one going to be more disappointed than me about it.   
I know what I need to do to get better from it.   
 Q.  What's your plan after this, Kyle?  
KYLE EDMUND: I'm not sure yet.  I don't know.   
The thing with these, like, press conferences, they always come really soon after, so there's not much time to decide.  I will know by tomorrow what the plan is.  I will speak to coaches and staff and see what the best plan is to do.   
Obviously I have a choice of -- I will be playing Davis Cup, basically, if that's your question.  But in terms of where I go, if I stay here or I go home, those are basically two options, if I train here or go home and train.   
I'll decide a bit later.   
 Q.  When was the last time you were home?  
KYLE EDMUND: I got home for two days just after Miami.  Just basically spending Christmas with the family.   
 Q.  Is that tempting right now?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, just decide what's the best option, is it to go home and train or stay out here?   
Either way, they are both long travels, so it depends if I want to do it a little bit early or a bit later, closer to the tie.   
 Q.  It's a bit warmer here right now.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, exactly.  But it's freezing in Ottawa, so...   
 Q.  Once the disappointment of this performance fades, there must be a lot of positives to take away from this?  
KYLE EDMUND: I mean, the positives, I guess, I won a match at the Australian Open that I haven't done in the last two years.   
But I guess the positive is it's another experience, but, you know -- I can always look for positive.  At the same time, I have to be realistic, and I'm disappointed at myself.  So, yeah, I want to do better all the time, so, you know, there is that balance of, you know, being positive yourself but also being hard on yourself to get better.   
Also, you want to be patient and let things happen, but at the same time, you want it as quick as possible, so there is that balance of doing it.   
Yeah, this trip has been -- it's been okay.  I mean, I had some good matches in Brisbane.  I lost a tough one to a good player in Stan.  And then, yeah, the two losses after that have been quite disappointing with Sydney and here, but I guess I got a win in between the two of them.   
So, yeah, I think it's just been an okay trip.  It could have been better.  I guess it could have been worse.   
But it's a very long year, so it's only just started.  I'll be keen to, you know, try and move along as quick as I can.   
 Q.  Has it kind of been more frustrating because Evo has done well?  Andy?  There is a kind of British momentum here, and to not be part of that or take that further?  
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know.  I don't really think of that.  It's obviously great they're doing well.  I mean, I did well in the US Open, and I feel a part of the group moving forward, but sometimes you just don't do maybe as well as the other guys, so, you know, everyone that does well deserves their success.   
If you don't do well, there is probably a reason why.  It's because you're just not good enough to be moving or to be winning the match.   
So you can't bluff it and say, I just want to be good enough.  So that's it.  I just have to be good enough.   
But it's great they are doing well.  I mean, Evo beating Cilic last night is a very good win.  And obviously Andy is doing his thing and probably going to go deep again in the tournament.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Evo was saying last night -- I don't know if you saw the stuff this morning, about...  
KYLE EDMUND: I haven't seen much.   
 Q.  He was saying last night that Nike decided at the end of last year not to renew his clothing contract.  Is that something you've ever...  
KYLE EDMUND: I did notice he wasn't wearing the white stuff.  I just thought it was because he hasn't gone to pick it up because he arrived late from Sydney.   
I didn't know that.  Yeah.   
 Q.  But for you, is it ever something you even had to think about, or at what age were you when you got your first clothing deal?  
KYLE EDMUND: I can't remember the first.  My first clothing deal was a TTK contract.  Do you know them?   
 Q.  No.  
KYLE EDMUND: No one knows (laughter). Exactly.  I don't actually know how old I was.  I don't really know what kind of deal it was.   
I don't know if it was a discounted deal, like, as in you get discount in buying clothing, or you get a certain number of kits.   
But, yeah, I went from TTK to adidas and then been with Nike a couple of years now.   
I don't know.  It's not something really you think about.  I feel there is a lot of companies out there that whatever stage you are at the time in terms of ranking or prospects, I guess, the company is going to offer you or sometimes the company doesn't.   
So you just whatever comes your way, I guess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT