U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2016
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/K. Edmund   
6-2, 6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What did you take from that?  Must have been a bit tough, especially the first two sets.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I mean, just come off.  Just enjoyed the experience.  Yeah, it was obviously a tough match.  Came off a lot happier than I was during the match just 'cause I got something going and started to impose myself a lot better.  So that was good.   
But, yeah, just a lot of learning to do from it, which is a really good thing.  You know, to play the world No. 1 on the biggest tennis court in the world, doesn't get much better than that.   
It's been a great tournament for me.  Loads and loads of positives, the way I've been playing.  The good thing is, I feel like there's a lot of stuff I can improve on and get better, as well, and the level I'm playing at.   
Yeah, obviously you don't want to go out of a tournament.  That's human.  But I'm happy with how I've been playing.   
 Q.  Did it surprise you at all the way he came flying out of the blocks like that after he'd only played six games in the previous six days?  
KYLE EDMUND: No, no.  I said this in the last press conference, that he's going to come out and play at a high level.  If you watch him play, he's playing at a high level consistently.  He's been doing that for a long, long time.  He's good at that, in coming out and putting a level on court that he can maintain.  So I wasn't surprised.   
He's No. 1 in the world.  The No. 1 in the world is based on a ranking that is year-round.  It's not necessarily if you have one good tournament.  He's had good tournaments consistently through, year-round.   
That means he has to play well a lot of the time.  That's what he does.   
 Q.  What have you learned about yourself and your game in this tournament?  
KYLE EDMUND: What have I learned about myself?  Well, it's given me a lot more belief in my game.  Not that I didn't believe in my game.  But it's nice to actually do it on a big stage against some good players, you know, two top-20 players, a guy that was playing well.   
It was a tough match against Escobedo, so three good wins there that I managed different styles, different games.  It's nice to know you can come out and adapt to situations.   
I'm getting better and better each time at that.  Yeah, I'm just pleased with how it's gone.  To win three best-of-five sets, I've never done in my career.  It was nice I've been consistently able to do that.   
 Q.  What are the specifics you have to work on in your own mind?  
KYLE EDMUND: I mean, nothing different to what I've always been working on.  I need to get my serve better.  Obviously my forehand's my strength, but that needs to continue to develop, because otherwise it stands still and people get better as well.   
Everything needs to improve.  It's like a constant process of trying to get better.  You know, you see how well Djokovic moves.   
That's the standard he's putting out there.  I've got to get better at my movement.  I got to get better at my shot management, when to pull the trigger, when to rally.  It's a constant process.   
Yeah, like I said, it's nice that I'm playing well, I've had really good wins, but there's still more room for improvement, which is exciting.   
 Q.  How did you feel about playing tonight?  Were you nervous?  
KYLE EDMUND: You have a little bit of nerves.  I think it's exciting nerves.  You're wanting to go out there an play.  It's a little bit of an unknown as well because I've never played a match on that court in front of that crowd, so it's a new experience for me.   
So, yeah, you're just anxious because you want to go out there and experience it.  That's what I was looking forward to.  Also the challenge of playing world No. 1, you know it's going to be tough when you go out there.   
I just knew that I didn't have anything to lose.  I just wanted to go out there and just be free and play my game.  I did a lot better job of that in the third set, definitely.   
 Q.  I think you'll move up to 55 then after the tournament.  A year from now, what's the target?  
KYLE EDMUND: Don't know.  Hopefully injury-free; improve from where I am now.  I don't know.  It's tough to look a year ahead.   
I just try and stay in the now almost and what I need to do to get better and stuff.  It's tough to predict what I want to do.   
If you look back a year ago, losing last round in quallies, where I was with my game, now where I'm at with my game, making fourth round, it's nice to know I have improved over that year.   
Hopefully this time next year I can look back at the same thing and say, Yeah, my game has improved.   
 Q.  Tomorrow morning del Potro will be playing on the same court you played a few minutes ago.  Will you watch that game, considering maybe he will be an opponent within a few days in Davis Cup?  
KYLE EDMUND: He's playing first on tomorrow?   
 Q.  Yes.  
KYLE EDMUND: I have no idea.  I don't know.  I don't have any plans right now.  I've just come off court.  Obviously I'll be looking to head back at some stage, back to the UK.  Yeah, it's tough to answer that question.  I don't know what I'm going to be doing.   
 Q.  Which are your thoughts on del Potro's comeback?  
KYLE EDMUND: I've never practiced with him.  I've never played him.  So, yeah, I don't know what it's like to be on court with him.   
Obviously watching him he has a big, explosive game.  It's exciting to watch.  He takes on balls.  He likes to hit winners.  He's dangerous, of course.  You can see his improvement the last months, how well he's been doing, obviously beat Novak in Rio.   
From what I've seen, he's obviously been playing well here.  He's getting a lot better since his injury.  He's won this event.  He's a past champion here, so that speaks for itself, how good he is.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT