U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2016
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. EDMUND/E, Escobedo   
7-5, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did you talk to Ryan before about the challenge of going out against a wildcard?  Having had such a great result and coming back and backing it up?  Did you talk about that?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.  I mean, I definitely wasn't going to go out there and think it's an easy match now because he's a lower-ranked player.  You'd be inexperienced to do that and a bit naive.  You definitely respect him.   
Yeah, I just had to go out there and, yeah, play my game first.  There's no point doing anything different to what I was doing because I felt really good on court.   
Yeah, I think today was a tougher match in terms of physicality and stuff, longer rallies and a lot more close points to tough out.  So that was a real positive, that I got through that and the way I did in straight sets.   
I thought I probably played a little bit better against Gasquet, but it felt better to come through this one because I knew I really had to tough it out.  That was a very -- that was a positive, basically.   
 Q.  Did you relax a bit after you played that set point in the first set?  Felt like you played better after that.  
KYLE EDMUND: To be honest, I can't really remember.  Yeah, I don't know.  Obviously I remember the first set being -- first part of the first set being a bit tensive.   
Well, I got the break but wasn't just flowing the way I wanted to and the way I was doing against Gasquet.  Yeah, it was important just to keep tough.   
I was pleased when I broke him and served out the set.  It was almost then I got really going in that second set.  Was a good battle.   
So it was a big difference going one set all and two sets love up.  That was good.  But every set was close in its own way.  I was pleased each time it got to a nitty-gritty situation.   
I did pretty well, I thought.   
 Q.  In the second set you had a lot of break points which you didn't convert.  How tough is it to keep your composure at that point?  And if you were playing Isner in the next round, how important is it to take those chances?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, it's important to definitely take your chances when you get them.  That's what everyone wants to do, is when they get that chance they want to take it.   
At the same time, you know, you're not going to get bundles of chances every time.  You know that.   
But at the same time I was creating a lot of chances quite often.  In my head I was thinking, You're creating good pressure here.  Just keep patient.  You're going to get him.   
Some of the break points he was playing really well.  I almost thought, you know, he hit some winners and was, you know, taking the ball on, so sometimes you thought you might not make it.   
And to break him in the third, he missed the forehand long.  That was obviously because he was going for his shots.   
So I was just keeping patient.  In my head I was thinking, It will come.  Don't panic.   
So, yeah, I was pleased.  It was good that you're creating lots of opportunities.  You just want to take them as quick as possible.   
 Q.  Are you really looking forward to the Davis Cup semifinal?  
KYLE EDMUND: Absolutely.  Yeah.  I'm not really thinking about it too much just because I am here trying t play these matches.  But of course, I'm not not looking forward to it, that's for sure.  You know, it's not often you get to play a semifinal of a Davis Cup, so you're always pumped to play them.   
That's if I get picked.  That's Leon's decision.  That's the whole -- that's what comes with team competitions, is that it's a team that is picked.  Individual competitions are just about you and you know you're going to play.  We'll see if I get picked or not.  If I get picked, I'll obviously give it my best.   
I loved playing in the final.  Even though I lost, I enjoyed the experience.  And obviously playing the quarters, I enjoyed being on court competing and getting a result for the team.   
If it comes round, then I'll definitely look forward to it for sure.   
 Q.  They both played very long matches.  How important could the freshness or fitness be when it comes to playing your match?  
KYLE EDMUND: Obviously getting through your matches in straight sets is always important, I think, and definitely helps, you know.  At least you can play six sets, and that's what I have done.  I'm happy with that.   
I think everyone is different in terms of if it's important, some people have better fitness levels than others and are more efficient and more able to go longer.   
So, yeah, depends who your opponent is.  Some guys don't mind playing long matches.  Some guys struggle to recover after long matches.  Just depends who you're playing.  From my point of view, I'm happy that I have done it in straight sets.  It's always positive doing that.   
 Q.  Have you watched how Andy has obviously improved his fitness, his techniques for doing that over the years?  If so, have you been able to take anything on board from that?  
KYLE EDMUND: Do you mean like what has he done to...   
 Q.  Yes.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, well, he does a lot of hours on court.  I think that's no secret, that doing the hours and putting in the hours is going to help you on court.   
I found when I've grown up that it is good getting in a gym and doing like track intervals or doing weights, but nothing properly replicates doing hours on court.  Tennis movements are very specific.  Tennis -- being match tight and tennis fitness is something different, in my opinion, anyway.   
I think he's done a lot of hours on court.  He's obviously put in a lot of the physical work off court which helps you on court.  But, yeah, I mean, I have always -- when I'm not doing tournament weeks I have always tried to, or my coach has, to get me on court long hours.  You know, a few hours each day.  If you're getting three hours each day with maybe a lighter session in the middle of the week just to keep it fresh, then I think you've got a good base physically going into five-set matches.   
 Q.  Do you think that you're playing some your best tennis ever?  And do you think that that has anything to do with the sort of environment around the US Open, something to do with a relaxed...  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I think I'm playing well.  It's tough to say you're playing your best just because of different conditions and situations, different surfaces.  But I'm playing well.  I feel good on court.  Trying to take it one match at a time.   
But, yeah, I think being at Grand Slams definitely, don't know, maybe gives you an extra bit of a lift.  I definitely find there is more attention and more people, first of all, around, so it can get quite busy.   
Sometimes I do find those situations quite energy-zapping, just because there is a lot to do.  It's not so -- everything has to be a bit more planned out, a bit more structured.  That's what I found anyway being at the slams.   
So I have learned you need to manage your energy levels better, your emotions.  So, yeah, I think the main thing is it's just exciting being at a Grand Slam in New York.  I think it's obviously once every year.  It's a big event.  So it probably does give you a bit of an extra lift even if you don't think it.   
 Q.  There will be a lot of attention on the next match.  It is against John.  He's completed his match.  There will be a lot of eyeballs watching that one, for sure.  Talk about your anticipation of that matchup.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I mean, he's got a good serve so it's going to be getting about as many balls back as much as I can and getting in the rallies.  Yeah, I don't know.  I have not really thought about it.  I have just finished my match now.   
It doesn't -- to be honest, doesn't matter if there is people watching or not people watching.  I just have to go about myself and do what I do and what I have been doing in terms of my process and how I want to go out on court and play.   
You know, nothing changes in terms of that aspect.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  The Argentine players, you are watching them.  
KYLE EDMUND: Argentine?  Yeah.   
 Q.  And especially about Juan Martin.  You know, he's coming back after a long injury.  How do you see that?  What are your thoughts on that?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I mean, they have good depth as a nation.  I think their record in Davis Cup over the, you know, past 10-odd years has been very good.  They have consistently been in the World Group and stuff.  Shows they have always had players playing at a high level.   
Obviously Del Potro is the best player because he's got a very big game, very dangerous game.  So you saw at the Olympics how well he was playing and stuff, and, you know, how much -- what's the word?  Outcome he was getting.   
Like, you know, shots were very penetrating and it's a big game, basically.  You have to play well against him, because if he's on form then it's difficult to play.   
But I have never played him.  It's just from what I have been watching.  I have played a few Argentinian players in challengers and stuff.  Schwartzman, played Pella at Indian Wells.  Practiced with Delbonis a little bit.   
So, yeah, I know them a little bit, but not a huge amount.  We'll see.  Probably Andy probably knows a bit more about Del Potro than I do in that sense.   
 Q.  Did you play Isner in Paris?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yes.   
 Q.  Do you remember that?  
KYLE EDMUND: I don't remember.  Yeah, I remember playing okay.  I didn't play as well as I wanted to, but of course I guess when you lose you always want to play better.   
Yeah, just the main challenge is trying to get the balls back in court as much as possible, just dealing with his serve.   
I didn't feel I hit my serve as well as I could, especially against his.  You want to be taking it to tiebreaks, and I don't think there was one tiebreak in that match.   
It would be important to serve well, make sure I control what I can.  Just taking care of my own service games.  That's probably one thing I learned from that.   
But, yeah, he's got a big explosive game because he's a big guy, so I've got to deal with that.  But, you know, I'm feeling good on court, so hopefully I can make some inroads.   
 Q.  What does it mean to be in the third round?  
KYLE EDMUND: I'm obviously very pleased.  Yeah, my first third round of a Grand Slam.  You know, it's great to do that.  You're obviously still in the moment, so you want to keep winning and stuff.   
I'm pleased the way I have gone about it, not dropping a set.  I think that's very positive.   
Yeah, just happy.  I think the experiences I've gathered over time have really helped me in these situations.   
So, yeah, keep going, basically.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT