AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2016
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. MURRAY/K. Edmund   
6-4, 3-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Was that second set a pretty good level for you?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, the second set was definitely good for me.  I thought, you know, I was getting more into the match, especially in his service games, my return games.   
Yeah, I did well to break him at 3-1 -- no, 2-1.  Things were really in the balance.  We were quite close and stuff.  I definitely thought I was playing well.  Yeah, I did well to break him and then had my chances at 3-1, so I was disappointed that I didn't close that, because I definitely felt I had the balls on my racquet to do that.   
But then, yeah, Love-40, you know, not often on grass you break back at Love-40.  So you take it when it happens, and it was good that I was able to serve out the set.   
 Q.  What happened at the start of the third?  Was it a case where you took your foot off the gas a little bit or did he just up his game?  
KYLE EDMUND: I didn't feel I played too badly.  Yeah, he definitely played well.  You know, yeah, he just stepped up his level.  He's No. 2 in the world and he's a very good player.   
So, yeah, it wasn't too much -- I wasn't getting into his service games as much in the third -- I mean, in my service games.  Yeah, you know, he played well in a lot of the points.  You know, at 3-Love when it started raining a little bit, I lost a bit of confidence with the movement and stuff.  I thought it was a bit wet.   
Then, yeah, the set went really quickly, but I was still trying to play my game and put it on the court.  So overall I was happy with the performance I put on the court today.   
 Q.  How did your nerves hold up, Kyle?  It's a bigger stage obviously against someone you admire and you train with.  It must put you in good stead for Wimbledon when something similar will happen?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, this stage and the occasion was -- you know, I haven't played a lot of, you know, big matches, as many big matches as Andy.  Andy has got a lot more experience playing lots of slams, semifinals.  He's played in a lot of slam finals, won Grand Slams.  He's played at the very, like -- I don't know what the word is but in those pressure situations.   
I'm still learning.  When I get these situations like the Davis Cup final last year in front of the crowd, you know, and even first round this week, I'm not playing in front of the crowds and the environments every sort of week like that.  So each time it comes, I'm gaining more and more experience.   
Yeah, I was pleased with the way I dealt with it.  You can be nervous, but it's good.  Once you get on there it's just about tennis and playing and enjoying it, as well, and embracing the occasion.   
 Q.  You obviously have practiced a lot with Andy and seen him play a lot.  Being out there on the court against him in a match, was there anything in particular that struck you about him that surprised you perhaps?  
KYLE EDMUND: Not really, no.  It was what I thought it was going to be like.  Yeah, in practice, like I said yesterday, it's tough to read into points in practice just because there is no consequence.  You know, if you miss a ball, you just pick up another ball and serve again, or, you know, you come back the next day and play.  In the matches, every point has got a consequence if you win it or lose it.  If you lose, you don't come back the next day and play.  That's the thing.   
So it's more of a pressure environment because everything counts.  So that's the different thing that with playing him that I have never experienced because I never played him, but, yeah, in terms of Andy, he was how I thought he'd play and hit the ball and stuff.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  You will be top 70 I think next week.  Last few months have been pretty satisfying in terms of progression?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, absolutely.  I think the year's been pretty good.  I found my level has been a lot more consistent this year, made a lot of gains in my game.  And physically, as well.   
The good thing for me is that I was playing a lot of the year and had good results.  You're also defending as you go along.  But the nature of the last year I didn't win a match on grass so you have nothing to defend.  This is a good start for the grass season, getting this sort of result.  It just goes straight on.   
So, you know, that's obviously why my ranking's jumped.  So, you know, I guess last year you're frustrated because you haven't won a match or I was injured so I couldn't play at Queen's, but I guess the positive thing is that next year you come back and it's a clean slate.   
 Q.  You play next week?  
KYLE EDMUND: Nottingham, yeah.   
 Q.  The BBC, were they factually correct when they said you had a bit of a surprise about 6:00 this morning?  
KYLE EDMUND: 6:30, yeah, yeah, the dishwasher got delivered.  So I had to let them in (laughter). The guy knew who I was, as well.  He wanted to chat.  But I wasn't...(laughter).   
I was too tired, so I just tried to get him out and go back to sleep.  Yeah, the plumber came today while I was here and installed it.  We will see when we get back.  I won't have any hand washing tonight.  I can just stick it in the dishwasher.   
 Q.  Did you say to him, It's a bit early, isn't it, 6:30?  
KYLE EDMUND: No, I just wasn't fully functioning at the time.  He said he was going to come at 7:00.  They said they would come at 7:00, which is early.  But he'd rather get it than not get it.   
And, yeah, there was a knock on the door at 6:30.  I just got in and signed and, yeah, got it away and went back to bed.   
 Q.  Is this your first place you have bought?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.  Yeah, yeah.  First place.  Just makes a big difference.  I have been living at NTC for five years.  You know, it is what it is.  I guess when you're younger you can put up with it more, but as you get older you like to have your own space.  It's tough to live at the place you work at.  I don't personally think it's healthy.  But, yeah, I'm pleased I'm in there now and you --   
 Q.  How close to Wimbledon is it?  
KYLE EDMUND: -- get time away.   
It's in Wimbledon.  In terms of the Old England Club, it's about five minutes, five to ten minutes.  Yeah, it's nice to have your own space and get that separation between professional work and chilling-out time.   
 Q.  When did you move in?  
KYLE EDMUND: After Paris.  As soon as I got back I went in.  Just been trying to get the place sorted, as you can see with the dishwasher.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT