AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2016
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. EDMUND/G. Simon
6-4, 3-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously one of your best win of your career.  Do you regard that as one of your best along with the French Open last year?
KYLE EDMUND: It's definitely a great win.  I don't know -- yeah, on paper it's my best win.  It's tough to say if it's like my best win in the career.  When you look at your best wins you look at how you play and the situations and the opponents and everything together.
Yeah, I don't know if it was my, you know, "the" best win, but I'd definitely say it's a very good win, one of the best wins of my career.  That's for sure.
Q. What would you put up there with it?  Which of your other performances would you put up there with it?
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know.  It's just sort of situations.  I mean, I remember when I beat De Schepper at Eastbourne, that was a very good win for me because of the circumstances.
If I was 21 now and looking still to get my first tour win, it wouldn't be as a good win.  It's just situations like that.  Definitely the one at the French Open last year and this year are two very good wins for me.
Yeah, I don't really know what is my best win.  Yeah, I don't know.  But if Davis Cup is different, that would probably be up there.
Q. Was that rain break kind of just to reset and to take stock?
KYLE EDMUND: It helped me in that way.  I don't know if it was important.  I think after the match it looked -- you can look at it and say, yeah, it was important because it just helped me, like you say, reset.
But when I was still in the match I was so focused, and I think that the game I held at 1-All from Love-40 to win that, and that was a big game to hold, and when the rain came and put us in, brought us back out, I think it, yeah, just helped me reset.
I had a chat with my coach and just said, Look, it's less than one set.  Just go out there and give everything.  It was great.  It was just four games in the end.
Q. How has the transition from clay to grass been this year?  Does it get easier each year?
KYLE EDMUND: A little bit, yeah.  I have had time to get on it, which has really helped me.  You know, you would have liked to do well at Paris, which is a good thing, I guess.
I lost second round, so if you look at the advantage of that, I got more time and practice on the grass.  So I think that definitely helped me.  I had basically two full weeks of practice on it, which put me in, you know, good stead today.
Q. Are you more confident going into Wimbledon, five sets?  It's not going to be a problem it has been a couple of times for you?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I don't see why not.  I mean, yeah, I think from how I have been playing and stuff, I feel like I have been playing well, a lot more consistent this year.
Yeah, I mean, Wimbledon has never given me a problem going, playing there.  I just haven't won, basically.  (Smiling.)
I have always felt I played okay and stuff.  I have not played amazing; not played too badly.  Yeah, I haven't won there in the seniors.  So each year, you know, it's predictable you're going to go there each year saying I'm better prepared than last year because you have got another year's experience on the tour, not just on grass.  I'd say definitely going to Wimbledon this year I was better prepared than last year.  I will probably say the same again the next year.  I think that's just the way it goes, to be honest.
Q. Have you made much technical changes for the grass, groundstrokes, shortening your swing a bit?
KYLE EDMUND: Probably -- well, the thing I do focus on in that is the returns just because they come through so quickly.  I think on the groundies, you still get the time to do that.  The biggest change, in fact, on the grass is the movement for me.  It's a very different type of moving style, especially on that centre court at Queen's.  I mean, the surface is absolutely lovely and it's well kept, but the grass is very fine so you've really got to be careful of your footing.
Obviously a fellow -- well, I slipped over trying to push off for a ball, and so if you're not careful, you know, you will fall over.
So it's the same for both opponents.  So you use that to your advantage.  You hit a lot of balls back behind, trying to wrong-foot them.  When you get them on the run, you really are in control of the rally.  You just try and be smart about it.
Q. What do you know about your next opponent, Mathieu?  Have you played him before?
KYLE EDMUND: No.  I don't know a lot, to be honest.  I have practiced with him I think two or three years ago at Eastbourne.  That's it, really.  The good thing is Dan played him today.  You know, there is some information there.
I'm sure there will be some video that I could look at.  So, yeah, again, it will be a tough match.  Obviously he's done well to tough out three sets against Dan.  I know Dan was -- I have been hitting with Dan.  He's been playing well.  So I'm sure Mathieu has been playing well, as well.
Yeah, it's just another match.  I've got to go out there.  I've got a match under my belt now, so I will learn from that and try and be better for the next round.
Q. Will you sit down with Evo tonight or tomorrow morning and...
KYLE EDMUND: Probably not.  He's probably gone already.  I don't know where, though.
Q. How will you get that information?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, through video.  Also his coach, Hilts.  You know, we're good.  We speak to each other quite a bit.  I could chat to him.  But, yeah, the video is key.  You look at some serving stats.  Yeah, that's the good thing, playing a Brit in that the feeds are coming straight back to -- well, you can get hold of them easily, basically.
So I'm sure I will have a look at some players and see what I can pick out from there.
Q. I don't think you were too far away from the Olympic cut.  I was wondering if there was any update there as to your status?
KYLE EDMUND: No, not since the announcement, I don't think.  I mean, I'm not in.  I think I'm seven out or something.  That's it.  If I get in, I'd love to go, but it's not been in my control.  I'll have to wait and see if I get in.
I'm sure there's a few people in there at the minute that may be carrying an injury naturally, so I'll just wait and see.  But, yeah.  Fingers crossed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT