ROLAND GARROS
May 23, 2016
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. EDMUND/N. Basilashvili
7-6, 6-7, 7-5, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How proud are you of that one?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I'm happy I got the win, yeah.  It was a tough match.  It was, yeah just a proper match that I felt I did well to come through.  It was a real battle out there.  My opponent is playing some high-level tennis.  Towards the end of the third he actually was playing really well.
The first two sets we struggled to break each other.  Again, I did well to win the first.  I had some break points, and then second set I had a set point of my own.
Could have been two sets to love up.  That's the way it goes.  It was very close.  Yeah, one set all and you've got to mentally reset.  Yeah, I felt he was playing some good tennis end of the third, and actually being a break down helped me just to tell myself, Look, you need to break back here or you'll go two sets to love down.
I felt like I got another gear and started playing some really good tennis.  I think that is where I carried a lot of the momentum breaking him twice to win the third and carried that momentum into the fourth where it went really quickly.
Q. You won here obviously last year.  Why do you think you get your best Grand Slam results here?  What did you like about the place so much?
KYLE EDMUND: Probably the clay, to be honest.  Simple as that.  It's no secret I've always liked to play on clay and I enjoy it.
Yeah, I feel you have to earn the points, really have to build them, but you get rewarded.  Every surface has its own disadvantages and advantages, and so here it's like you can't get many cheap points.  You have to really earn them.  It's just different.
Say on the grass you can get short points a lot quicker and cheaper so the rallies aren't so long.  The nature of the clay is you have to build.  That suits my game.  I personally think so.
Yeah, I remember last year.  I finished late again last year.  Won in five sets.  The light was getting dark.  Very similar here.  Wasn't five sets, but another long-ish match, physically tough, and the light was getting dark.
Similar feel to it.  Good that I was able to come out on top.
Q. (Off microphone.)  How are you feeling physically now?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, in terms of the ab injury, I have nothing on my ab this year, so that's good.
Yeah, in terms of the ankle, nothing.  I don't know how long the match was, about 2 hours 40, so 2 hours 40 of running and sliding it held up absolutely fine.  Obviously great confidence that the ankle is holding up.
That's good.
Q. How much physically stronger do you feel than last year or indeed than back in November at the Davis Cup?
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, that's another thing that's good confidence.  This is my -- obviously played five sets in Australia; didn't physically hold up.  This wasn't five sets, but, again, it was a physically demanding match and the clay.
There is a lot of loading with the sliding, a lot of running, longer rallies.  Would be interesting to see how much I actually ran today compared to Australian Open, but it was a lot of running and I physically held up pretty well, which is another confidence booster for me coming off.
There was lots of things going on in my head.  I was happy that I won, but that was one of them, that I physically held up pretty well.
Q. I know you don't know who you're playing yet, but how did you fancy the challenge of taking on John Isner?
KYLE EDMUND: Well, first of all, the two players, I think they're quite different in their game styles obviously.  John Isner has got a big serve, very explosive, powerful game.  Very similar to the guy today, except I would probably say that Basilashvili is more aggressive with his groundstrokes.  Hasn't got as big a serve obviously.
But Johnny Millman, I know him really well.  I get on with him great.  We both support Liverpool so we chat about that a lot.  We get on really well.  I've played him twice; lost to him twice.  I think the last one was a close match in Aptos.
But he's more of a rally sort of person.  Not as big a serve.  Likes to rally and run a lot.  So he'll be tough to break down.
Equally be both tough matches, as it was today.  The guy is in-form.  For me, nothing changes.  I still have to go out there and play my game and look to do what I do best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT