WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2015
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. DOLGOPOLOV/K. Edmund
  7‑6, 6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Talk about what happened with the injury.   Looked like you were having your shoulder treated.   Anything related to the stomach?   Both problems?
KYLE EDMUND:   No, just a bit of a sore shoulder.   I mean, I just felt it was a bit sore.   Maybe my serve just dropped off in pace a bit. 
But, you know, tennis is an all‑year‑round sport, you're obviously going to pick up little niggles here and there.   I just felt something. 
It's not the reason why I lost, so... 
It's just something that I got the trainer on to see if he could loosen it up a bit. 
At the end of the day, Alexandr was better than me.   He played well.   I wasn't able to quite find enough points to beat him, basically. 

Q.   You're getting used to the experience, more play at Wimbledon.   How did you find it today?   People maybe know you a bit more.   How frustrating is it not to be able to get that win here?
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, it's obviously frustrating to lose.   Again, tennis, so many tournaments and stuff.   There's another opportunity next week.   You learn to deal with the loss and take what you want from it.   And then move on quickly and try and get better the next week, which is no different to now. 
In terms of, yeah, playing Wimbledon, it's been a great experience.   I'm very fortunate to be able to be given a wild card into the event.   Yeah, it's three times in seniors.   I played the juniors four years, as well ‑ yeah, four years.   I've had quite a lot of experience here.   Each time you get more experience, it's great. 
Obviously, the crowd is good support for me basically.   I was very pleased with it today in terms of not the loss, but in terms of the experience. 

Q.   You're 101 this week.   You've been thereabouts for a while.   Is it a mental barrier?
KYLE EDMUND:   Well, I've been there about four weeks now, yeah.   Well, I don't know if four weeks is...
Unfortunately I got the ranking when I got injured.   I haven't been able to really, really push on as much as I'd like to. 
Unfortunately I had to miss the start of the grass court season with the injury.   First match out was Nottingham and now Wimbledon. 
The positive thing is I haven't felt the ab since.   I'm obviously happy with that.   Now I've just got to try to address the shoulder. 
Yeah, the ranking is a number on a piece of paper.   It doesn't determine what you want to do.   It's a long‑term goal I've got in my head.   Me and my coach are thinking in the long‑term.   It's all about developing your game. 
If you're good enough to get to the ranking you'll be, you're going to get there.   I'm not really thinking about it too much because if I think about it, then my game's not going to improve.   I'm just focused on my game and improving each day. 

Q.   How did the heat affect your game today?
KYLE EDMUND:   Not too much, no.   I've played in hotter conditions, in Australia.   US Open gets pretty hot as well.   It is extremely hot today for London. 
But, yeah, I've played in hotter basically.   It wasn't too much of an issue.   It's the same with both players to deal with it.   It was fine. 

Q.   Is your shoulder going to be okay for the Davis Cup?
KYLE EDMUND:   I don't know.   I'd love to predict the future, but I don't know.   We'll see.   With these sort of things, it's a day‑by‑day thing.   Same as with the ab.   Progressing is slow. 
I don't know.   I'll keep an eye on it and my trainer will work on it. 
But, as I say, you get niggles here and there.   It's nothing new for me.   I've always picked up something now and again.   It generally doesn't last that long.   We'll just maintain it and keep an eye on it. 
But Davis Cup is two, two and a half weeks away now.   A lot can happen, can change, from now to there. 

Q.   Am I right in thinking there was a suggestion you might play higher up in the order of the Davis Cup ahead of Ward?   Is that correct?
KYLE EDMUND:   I don't know.   It hasn't been talked about with me.   I don't know.   That's Leon's decision.   I really don't know basically. 

Q.   How much of a short‑term target is it to qualify by right for the main draw at the US Open?   How realistic do you think it is?
KYLE EDMUND:   It's obviously something I want to do for sure, yeah.   I don't know.   It will be tough now because the last cut for the entry I think is the week after Wimbledon.   If I'm playing something, it will be Davis Cup.   If not, my first tournament will be Atlanta. 
I think at the minute I might just miss out.   But it is what it is.   Nothing much I could have done in terms of my ab.   You just have to deal with it.   Yeah, it's just something you have to deal with. 
I'm sure everyone's job each day is not plain sailing, you have to deal with the obstacles along the way.   If I have to qualify, I'll absolutely give it my best.   I've had a bit of experience from Australia and Paris now, so it will be another great opportunity for me to qualify for the US Open, if that's the case. 

Q.   Just to be specific, as far as you are concerned, you are 100% fit without any ab, shoulder, whatever problems when you walked onto court?
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, I felt good going onto court.   Same like Paris.   If it was going to harm me or do further damage, I wouldn't have walked on court because health is the main priority.   You don't want to go in there and do furthermore damage, especially being young and having a long career. 
So, no, I felt good this morning.   It's just one of those things.   I guess maybe I was hitting quite a few serves and going for it a bit more.   I just felt something.   Like I haven't done anything to it.   I just felt something so I got the trainer on. 

Q.   How much did you see of Liam's match yesterday?   How much do the two of you spur each other on as the two main British men coming through?
KYLE EDMUND:   I watched a lot of his match in the changing room actually because I was practicing.   Then I was having some treatment in the changing rooms.   I was watching it there.   It was great to see him win. 
It's a bit similar to me in Paris, I think his first five‑setter, his first Grand Slam win.   Obviously, I know what the feeling is like.   There was so much enjoyment. 
I was really pleased for him as well.   I keep seeing him at Chipotle every day on his own.   He was back there last night as well. 
I'm really please for him.   He's obviously worked hard.   I know his coach well.   It's great for British tennis to see him doing that. 
It keeps pushing us.   It's only healthy. 

Q.   You said it's hot for London.   Do you think the heat rules should be made available to male players considering it will be hotter tomorrow? 
KYLE EDMUND:   I don't know what the heat rule is. 

Q.   Female players, they can call for a stop for 10 minutes between the second and third set.   Do you think it should be available to the men, considering it will be 35 tomorrow. 
KYLE EDMUND:   What is the rule for the temperature? 

Q.   31. 
KYLE EDMUND:   I don't know.   I mean, Australia's pretty hot and I haven't seen too many stops. 
For me personally, I think it's sport.   Especially tennis, it can be physically testing and demanding.   That's why we put a lot of hours in on court and in the gym. 
But for me personally, I think not.   I think play.   But I can see why.   It's obviously important for people to be healthy.   You don't want anyone passing out on court.   It's the last thing you want. 
Maybe it's something you've got to gauge.   But I never thought about that on court.   I think you're always just in the moment and you just deal with it. 
But I've never actually personally stopped because of the heat rule.   I don't know what it feels like to be that close to stopping. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT