ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2015
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  K. EDMUND/S. Robert  2-6, 6-4, 6-3, 5-7, 6-2    THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   Q.  How were you feeling there at the end?  Looked like you were in the early stages of cramping.  KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I was, but doesn't matter, I won (smiling).  I'm really pleased I won.  A lot of hard work.  You get up in the mornings and you train. I'm just really pleased.  Obviously my first five-setter and first five-set win. A lot of emotions going on in the match, but I just tried to stay very level and calm.  I knew I had the game to win.  But it's one thing to know you have the game to win and doing it. He was really -- you know, a lot of respect for him.  He's got a good game.  He's tricky to play.  He's obviously very experienced.  For me personally, I'm just very happy to win and get through.   Q.  The cramping you probably had before this was probably the small seats on the budget airlines you were trying to squeeze yourself into to go to tournaments, which is all designed to get you to this position where you're winning a Grand Slam match.  Does it feel like, Christ, it's all worth it?  KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, definitely.  These sort of feelings you get when you win and -- you know, it was difficult because he was playing well and not making it easy.  At 2-All before the fifth I just obviously went to the toilet and I just thought, give it everything, you know, don't have any regrets, give it everything you've got on the court. If you get everything, you won't be disappointed. It was important I got a good start in the fifth, went up a double break.  And, yeah, as you said, started cramping.  I just thought, you know, give it everything here. That last game, I was very relieved to get through.   Q.  Had kind of a Davis Cup atmosphere out there.  How much did you enjoy that and how much satisfaction do you get from coming through that side of it as well as the tennis side?  KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, probably one of the more vocal matches I have played in with the crowd.  Obviously the French, you know, they're like that, very passionate about their players, give their players really good support. It's almost like playing another player. I knew that was going to happen, obviously.  I played in Italy a few weeks ago and I had a similar situation when I played Starace.  And so you just have to get on with it. It's the same when I go and play at Wimbledon or in the UK, you're obviously going to get support, Davis Cup.  So it's everywhere you go.  It's just part of being a tennis player.  You just have to deal with it.   Q.  You've got Kyrgios next.  Tell us about that.  Then beyond that, of course, perhaps Andy Murray.  KYLE EDMUND: Well, yeah, I'm not thinking that far ahead just yet.   Q.  Kyrgios, anyway.  KYLE EDMUND: Kyrgios, he's obviously a very good player, done really well recently. At the minute, you know, just focusing on recovering first, get -- trying to get 100% for the match.  Me and my coach will talk about it, look at some video footage what I can do, what I can do better. But, yeah, it's going to be a good match for me.  I have had a good tournament so far, and I feel good on court and playing well.  You know, I'm going to try and use that when I play Nick.   Q.  What pleased you most from your performance and your play today and how much confidence will you take from this sort of breakthrough win for you do you feel?  KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, that's -- I think I've won one ATP match in the past, so to win my first Grand Slam match, to play my first five-set to win my first five-setter, just a lot of things, a lot of things I'm obviously very pleased with. You know, after a tricky start where I wasn't quite relaxed into the match, he was playing a bit better than me.  I changed my tactics a bit, and slowly worked myself back in the match, started to win a few more rallies. When I broke him in the second to go 1 set all, I thought, yeah, this is it.  You know, go for it now.   Q.  Andy was watching with interest your final games.  Can you say how much of an input his help has been?  He's been taking you under his wing in recent years in practice and such?  KYLE EDMUND: I didn't actually see him, I was focused on the match but I got told he was watching. He's obviously just played his match, and he's gone through all his recovery stuff and he doesn't have to come out and watch me, but he has.  It just shows that he really cares.  I'm just very fortunate someone like that is, you know, keen to help me.  I will take as much help as I can get from him. You know, he texted me after the match saying, Really well done.  I'm really pleased for you.  First five-setter.  You know, it's a great achievement and stuff. Yeah, he's still got lots more years to play, so I will continue to learn from him.   Q.  When Andy first came through he was cramping quite a lot in five-setters.  Is there anything you can do to prevent that happening apart from just simply playing in more five-set matches?  KYLE EDMUND: Well, I think it is my first five-setter.  I don't know what it feels like to play five sets, so you're a little bit unsure.  I have played -- I have done practice sessions, but I think with the emotions and the nervous energy, I think it just, you know, contributes to that. But I'm still young in terms of my body and I'm still developing, so I still need to get stronger and fitter. So even if I didn't play five sets or lost today, I will still continue to try to get better in the long term with my body. But also at the same time, you know, it shows that it gives me confidence I was able to play five sets for the first time.   Q.  Andy said it will probably be top 100 for you.  Do you know if you are that close now --  KYLE EDMUND: Sorry?   Q.  Reaching top 100 with that win.  Andy thought it was probably good enough to get you in the top 100.  Do you know if you are that close and just how hard has that road been to try to crack that mythical number?  KYLE EDMUND: Well, first of all, I didn't -- I don't know the answer if I'm in top 100 or not.  I haven't looked at the rankings.  So we will just have to wait until the tournament is done. But, yeah, in terms of like the road and stuff, it's obviously, as I said, lots of hard work and sacrifice and commitment.  Wins like that, you know, it really means a lot.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT