AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 16, 2014
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/K. Edmund
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What did you make of that?   You certainly gave him a run for his money?  
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, it was a close first set, and I struggled to get into the service games.   It was good.   I forced him to a tiebreak.   
Then I had a few chances in the tiebreak, but, yeah, obviously he was serving very well and it was tough to read his serve.  
Yeah, after the first set I started well again and had chances to break him.   The game after I had break points I got broke.   
It was a close match.   I didn't play my best tennis, but I just have to keep learning and learn what I could have done better.  
   
 Q.   How is it going with Greg?  
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, it's going well.   It's obviously seven weeks we have been working together now.   So it's going well.   There is lots of positive stuff going on.   
We have tried to obviously make‑‑ you know, he's tried to change a few things or give me some stuff to work on.   It's obviously tricky to balance because it's during a tournament period.   So you're trying to play matches and still adapt to things.  
You know, we have been working together since we were 16 on and off, so it wasn't ‑‑it's not completely a new relationship.   In terms of the off‑court stuff, speaking to each other, we have known each other for three, three‑and‑a‑half years now.   It's not a completely new thing.  
   
 Q.   Is it possible you will have a full‑time arrangement?  
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, it is full‑time, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You said there are a few things you're working on, perhaps changing.   Anything in particular?  
KYLE EDMUND:   Well, we have been working on my serve quite a lot and trying to get me some cheap points more, especially on the grass.  
I've felt I have served a lot better.   Today was quite windy.   It was tough to gauge it, but, yeah, I found as you go up the levels, you've come to like a top level now, and the margin and stuff is so small.   
Sometimes you can feel you can play very well but haven't had the outcome.   But you have still got to take the positives away from it and not get too bogged down, because, you know, if I was winning the same amount of matches I was in the juniors as I was in the seniors I'd be going up the rankings.   You have to accept it's going to take time.  
   
 Q.   You had your first win on the senior tour here last year.   How far do you feel you have come in the last 12 months?  
KYLE EDMUND:   Well, I have gained another year of experience.   I have definitely learnt more, played more matches on the tour.   Obviously I have only had one tour win coming last year, so it's obviously been tough.  
I have had some good matches in those events.   My ranking is not there yet to play tournaments.   I have got to get it up so I can get in on merit.   
Obviously now I will be looking to play in the challenger tour and get some good points there.  
   
 Q.   After your experience at Wimbledon last year, how much are you looking forward to getting back out there next week and enjoying it again?  
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, exactly.   I mean, you know, it will be very exciting going out there and playing at Wimbledon.   It always is.  
Then obviously very fortunate I have been given a second wildcard in two years to play the singles.   I will try and learn, obviously.   What happened last year, I got a tough opponent.   So I will try and take the experience I got from that, and obviously I played a lot of matches with the juniors, as well, so I had plenty of time on court there.  
Hoping I can take that experience and use it this year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT