AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 17, 2013
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. EDMUND/K. De Schepper
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How does that feel, first win with the big boys?
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, it's nice to get this win.   I have been training, you know, hard after the loss at Queen's, really trying to put what I could have done better from that match and make it better and stuff.   I have been really focusing on returning.
It's just as well playing the guy I played who's got a big serve.   I just had the intent of trying to put a lot of balls into play and go from there.   It worked out great.
You know, I'm just happy to get the win after being given a wildcard and this great opportunity.   So it's nice, a nice feeling.

Q.   There didn't seem to be any nerves out there even when you were serving for the match.   How do you explain that?
KYLE EDMUND:   No, just for me personally, when I get nervous, I go into a little bit of a shell.   That's from past experience.   So, you know, I didn't think there was a need to be nervous, because then I wouldn't be able to play my game and I'd be walking off the court and thinking, oh, I didn't put everything out there, which was the last thing I wanted. 
I just went on there focused on my game, and, yeah, it worked out great.   I mean, I have played on Margaret Court Arena before, so it was a similar sort of environment so I knew what was going to happen.

Q.   Do you think in a sense the experience of last week at Queen's stood you in good stead here today?   Because you had a bit of frustration, and you just wanted to put that right, so to speak?
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, exactly.   I think the Queen's experience was great to put me into, as you said, to put me out there.   Yeah, I mean, the Queen's experience was amazing because I have been watching that tournament ever since I was a child, and then to play it was different.   So, you know, no experience is a bad one.   I was just taking everything in. 
I have come here, worked on some stuff, and there are some great players here, as well.   I had some good hits with Dodig, Verdasco, and I really got used to the level and trying to take as much from it, so to go out there and take everything I had and to win is a bonus.

Q.   There's about 360 places between you and him. 
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, exactly.   It's nice to be able to know that I can play at that level, but, you know, my goal is to play that level and also have a ranking out of it.   It's two different things, to be able to play at that level, but to do week in and week out is a different challenge and I want to be able to do that.

Q.   Do you feel intimidated by someone like that?
KYLE EDMUND:   No.   I mean, I knew he was going to be big and hit some aces.   I just‑‑ my coach said, Don't get annoyed.   Those balls are going to go past you.   You've just got to bounce off and move on. 
You know, it is impossible for him to go on a grass court and not serve aces.   It's going to happen.
So I knew that was going to come.   And then if he wasn't going to hit an ace, I was going to try and put the ball on court.   I thought I did that pretty well.

Q.   A 133‑mile‑an‑hour second serve, and you got it back and won the point. 
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah.   I think it's just more of a reaction than instinct.   Playing the game since I was ten, you know, eight years, you get used to some serves and stuff.   So a lot of returns today were just reactions and just using his pace and just getting a racquet on the ball and just deflecting it. 
Some balls you think, oh, it's gone past you, you get it back, and then he missed a few today, so it just rewards you for your efforts.

Q.   Given that you don't play on the tour regularly, how do you find out with someone like him, do you have an analysis you look at before who provides you with that?
KYLE EDMUND:   No.   I mean, you ask around a little bit.   I asked a few of the British guys like Ward.   My coach actually knew a little bit about him, because he was at Queen's and Nottingham. 
So people have seen him around and they asked the doubles partner last night who he was, and he went, Oh, big serve straightaway.   So I knew he was going to have a big serve.
So, you know, you just ask around and that's what I did last week, same thing.   There was actually a clip of him playing against Goodall last year at Wimbledon.   So I had a quick look at that, and it's tough to really take away stuff from clips if you're not playing them.   It's better to play them and you get your feeling.
But, yeah, it was fine today.

Q.   Which surface are you most comfortable?   You have done very well in Paris, of course. 
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah.

Q.   And now the courts here. 
KYLE EDMUND:   Last five, six months I have been playing on clay throughout the year.   I'd say that's my favorite service.   It suits my game really well with the shape and the spin.
So this is the first time this year I have come off the clay and gone into another surface.   It was a quick turnaround.   It was only two days.   I knew Queen's was going to be tough.   After Queen's it allowed me more time to get used to the surface and to adapt.
Yeah, it shows that I have adapted quite well.

Q.   Are you okay?   There was an incident back of the court... 
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, I just think it's, when you're running and you slam your foot down in the grass, sometimes you don't grip the surface and on grass your foot just falls away.   There was no injuries whatsoever.   Just a bit of a shocker at the time, but everything is fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT