AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 11, 2013
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. ZEMLJA/K. Edmund
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What do you make of the experience?   How do you think you played today, Kyle?
KYLE EDMUND:   The experience was great.   Obviously my tour debut.   I was going on there, you know, everything to gain and nothing to lose sort of thing. 
I played okay, I think.   For me, when I got in the points I felt quite comfortable, and that was the game plan:   to get in as many points as possible, to serve well, which I did, and to return well, which I didn't return as well as I hoped.
But after having five, six months on the clay and having lots of time to return, then obviously the grass, it shoots through a bit more.   That was a challenge for me today. 
I had a few chances but didn't take them.

Q.   The transition from clay to grass is obviously one of the trickiest.   The surface is obviously a little slick anyway, given the conditions.   Footwork a little bit tricky at the start?
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, a little bit.   I find a bit of confidence goes ‑‑especially when you go to the wide balls, you know, you see a few players on TV when they go out to a wide one, their left foot goes when you slip.
So for me it was a little bit of confidence, and also, you've got to be lower as well because the ball comes through lower.
Yeah, you've got to adapt.   And it was always going to be tricky, but I knew that and I accepted that.   So all I can do is learn and improve for the future.

Q.   You got back to London Saturday night?
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah.

Q.   Hit Sunday?
KYLE EDMUND:   Hit Sunday morning, Sunday afternoon, and same again on Monday.

Q.   Any notable people on the other side of the net?
KYLE EDMUND:   I hit with Rosol yesterday.   Apart from that, my coach, Colin Beecher.   That's it. 

Q.   You weren't on court with Andy or anything?
KYLE EDMUND:   No, nothing.   I was just trying to get as much time on court as possible, as well.   Yeah, I mean, I hit with Ed, as well, just for 20 minutes to warm him up. 
But I actually thought I got used to the grass quite well considering ‑‑ it was my third year on grass, and I'm always constantly learning, you know.   One day I want to be able to win the biggest tournament in the world, which is on grass, so you have to want to learn   even though it's a very short period of time in the year, but I thought I adapted well.   To play this sort of level, straight after the clay court season, I was fairly pleased with it.

Q.   What's the hardest lesson for you to learn on grass?
KYLE EDMUND:   I don't know.   I just don't think ‑‑you can get quite frustrated because the points are very short, so sometimes you can go through games feeling you haven't got a play on anything. 
Then you don't get rhythm, which for me is the hardest part when you aren't getting rhythm and it's your first match.
So you do want rhythm on your first match.   I started off returning well today.   I thought I had a few break points, and there was a period in the match where I thought I wasn't creating enough pressure on the service games.   When that happens, then he can go through service games very quickly, which is not what you want.
You want a bit of pressure each game, and then hopefully when the crunch time comes it's in the back of his mind.   But my chances were in the tiebreak, and I just missed one or two.

Q.   How hopeful are you of getting a Wimbledon wildcard?   How would you relish that challenge if it came up?
KYLE EDMUND:   Well, it would be unbelievable.   It's always been, since I have started playing tennis, it's always been a potential dream to play Wimbledon. 
So if I got the opportunity, I'd be very thankful.   I'd go out there and give it my all. 
But at the same time, I don't, you know, ‑‑if I don't get one, it doesn't mean I deserve one.   It's completely a decision ‑‑I have given everything I can throughout the year. 
You know, I think this sort of decision is hopefully not based just on one or two tournaments, you know.   It's consistent throughout the year, which I played a lot of matches. 
So I think I've got a good chance.   I know I'm in the mix to get it, but I'll respect the decision either way it goes. 

Q.   No indication or anything about tomorrow?
KYLE EDMUND:   No, nothing.

Q.   Tomorrow?   What will you do the rest of the week?
KYLE EDMUND:   I think tomorrow the coach said briefly I'll have a little bit of a rest.   You know, I have been on the go leading up to the French Open for two weeks.   I didn't have a day off.   I was hitting obviously throughout the French.   I played a lot of tennis plus the doubles.
I have come straight onto the grass.   I think just a little bit of rest will do me good and then take what happened today and just get better from the grass leading into ‑‑I'm going to play the quallies of Eastbourne. 

Q.   Have you been playing at the NTC since you came back?
KYLE EDMUND:   Yeah, staying there.   I stay there throughout the whole year, so I feel comfortable there.   All my stuff's there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT