NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 28, 2019
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. FRITZ/K. Edmund
7-6, 6-3
KYLE EDMUND: I put myself in a situation, gave myself opportunities.  So, yeah, just would have loved to have taken the first set or a break in the second just to get myself sort of in the match in terms of the scoreline, but, yeah, just couldn't take them.  That's the most frustrating thing.
Q. You say you had chances in the tiebreak, had break points in the second set.  Why do you think today just didn't happen?
KYLE EDMUND: I don't know.  Sometimes it doesn't happen.  You know, that's sport.  It's not through lack of trying or anything.  So, yeah, I wish I could have but just didn't.
I tried my best and I tried my hardest.  But not today.  It's something you have to sort of learn from.  In hindsight, it's always easy to say, Do this, hit this shot, or put balls in, play more aggressive.
You can sort of learn maybe for next time, but when you, you know, are in the match or straight afterwards, it's just easy to say, Yeah, you should have done that rather than -- you know, it's situations in sport.
Q. Wimbledon starts on Monday.  How would you say you have progressed through the week?
KYLE EDMUND: Pretty good.  I mean, three matches this week is nice.  I haven't had that in a while.  Come through two tough matches.  A tough one today.  And like I said, I actually played reasonably well.  I didn't play amazing, but the great thing was I got myself the opportunities.
It's a lot more positive, and you've just got to keep building and building and try and improve.  You know, I think if I keep applying myself like I did today in terms of on the tennis court and winning and put myself in good opportunities, I think I will have some good success.
Q. (Question about getting to the final.)
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.  Just for me, playing three matches was good.  For sure I wanted to win this week.  Didn't happen, but, yeah, it's nice just for me to play matches.  I probably haven't played as many matches as some of the players, but it's good to be building some momentum again.
Going to Wimbledon, it's always nice to have momentum, but just more in terms of the overall year, it's good for me.
Q. Is it any consolation you'll have 24 more hours of rest before you play again?
KYLE EDMUND: There is always -- you can always make positives and always makes disadvantages.  Either way, I mean, you win today, you get the points.  So then you say, Oh, I don't have to win maybe a round at Wimbledon, because you've got the points here.  But then you say, Oh, I lost.  That gives me another 24 hours to rest and build your energy.
So either way, you can look at positives.  I mean, this week I wanted to go all the way, so it's disappointing.  But like I said, you can take your positives from it and it's been a lot better this week.
Q. How do you feel about your Wimbledon draw?
KYLE EDMUND: Fine.  You're playing Wimbledon, you have to be on it, ready.  It's an exciting tournament, especially for British players.
Either way, whoever you draw, you sort of have to really focus on yourself and be engaged yourself going out on court and putting your game on court, regardless of what they say is the better draw or less draw on paper.
It doesn't matter who I play.  Like, if I don't go out there and apply myself and put myself in good situations, especially at Wimbledon, then you've got no chance really.  So I'm more focusing on myself rather than the draw.
Q. What do you look forward to the most when it comes to Wimbledon?
KYLE EDMUND: Just playing in front of the home crowd.  Also, playing in Wimbledon just itself is an amazing experience, like, you know, an honor.  Because then, like, even those it's 128 draw, there is only 128 players that can play in a certain draw at Wimbledon, men's and women's.  But it doesn't last forever, and you do feel when you are there it has, like, an amazing presence, like a feel about it.
When you are walking around, you know you're at somewhere special, you have the opportunity to walk out on court, especially if it's a nice court.
So I think any player would say that Wimbledon is probably the best tournament in the world, but being a Brit has that extra element to it that is special.  You know every match you go on court you're the one getting cheered on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT