NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 27, 2019
Kyle Edmund
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. EDMUND/D. Evans   
1-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Great comeback after that first set.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, thanks.  Yeah, it was good.  A poor start in terms of getting in the match.  Like, you could say, yeah, credit to Dan for sort of putting his stamp on it.  But also, I think I could have done a lot better and a lot more to stop that or put a bit more of my stamp on it.   
But the best thing from that is to react to it, and I did.  Just got more engaged.  Put my sort of personality and engagement into the match and my game almost.  I have good ability to be aggressive and take control of rallies and games, so it was really good for me, obviously not playing a lot of matches.   
But that type of match against a guy, you're playing a Brit, there is a bit of pressure on you to win.  He's only lost one match on the grass this year, winning two tournaments.  I think he's won 12 matches on the grass.  A lot in a very short space of time.  So to come across the line with a W is pleasing.   
 Q.  Did you sense any fatigue from Dan?  Because it's been a lot of match play from him.  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, I mean, this is tennis.  Everyone is fatigued at some point.  It's a professional sport.  I don't know of anyone that isn't fatigued in some way coming in.  If they're not, I'd love to know their program and what they do for recovery.   
But it is normal that people are going to be fatigued.  I don't know if he was or wasn't, but, you know, that is the nature.  We play a lot throughout the year, a lot of weeks you're dealing with stuff.   
For me, whoever is down at the other end I have to be ruthless and try and win.   
 Q.  It seemed you were playing with quite a lot of intensity today.  Dan said he thought that's when you're at your best.  Is that something you feel, as well?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah, for sure.  The personality of my game is aggressive and explosive and powerful.  It's tough to do that with a very sort of laid-back approach, very sort of lethargic.   
That's probably how I was going about my business in the first set.  I needed to change and I did change that.   
I used the fresh start as in 0-0, just start again, put up a bit of a clean slate.  That's what I did.  From the second set onwards, when I got that break, from then on I really felt like I dominated a lot more rallies or points than I was in the first set, using my forehand game on the run.   
He's right, but it's easy to say.  You know, I've got to do it.   
 Q.  Fist pumps and that sort of thing, you said that's something you were consciously working on.  Do you find that going into matches you want to show your opponent you're there?  
KYLE EDMUND: A little bit.  I mean, it comes across in the rallies.  The guy's aren't stupid.  They can feel it when you're getting engaged and sort of getting on top.   
It doesn't have to be fist pumps.  It can be in the play people feel the pressure, they feel the heat.  That needs to start with me in the points rather than in between the points.   
I mean, it's not really something that you plan.  It's more of doing the right thing in the right moment.  But anyway, you can obviously fist pump is if you're getting on top.  You can't do it if you're not on top or behind in the match.   
 Q.  You have Taylor Fritz next.  I think it's your first meeting.  Just some thoughts on facing him?  
KYLE EDMUND: I mean, I have practiced with him in Europe this year, so I found him quite aggressive, taking a lot of balls.  Obviously a big guy, good first serves.  I mean, anyway, he's won two matches, playing well.   
For me, it's just sort of one of them I got to learn from today, try and do better tomorrow, start off better.  Of course you do make adjustments naturally, playing a different person.  Compared to Dan, Taylor Fritz is a completely different player.  You naturally make that adjustment.   
I think just without thinking, you sort of do that and you play.  You know there is not going to be as many slices.  He's going to be taking on the ball more.   
What I said yesterday about getting another match is great for me and trying to come through it, and I did today.  It's very much similar for tomorrow.  It's great I have three matches now, something that I have not had too many this year.   
 Q.  Is this feeling like a real rebuilding process for you at the moment?  
KYLE EDMUND: Yeah.  I mean, I'm trying to do my best every week.  Touch wood, I'm happy with where I'm at in terms of my body right now.  Making sure that stays consistent, not slack off and take for granted.   
Yeah, it's good.  I mean, I had a good win, let's say, in the French Open.  Those sort of matches, coming through tough tests, especially against a French guy, you know, I was definitely the underdog there, that can rebuild your season or get you confidence.   
But I just feel since I came back from Paris I have been in the gym a lot, practicing well, been practicing a lot better after Queen's.  So it's nice to sort of transition that on the match court.   
 Q.  How offputting are the seagulls when you get ready to serve?  
KYLE EDMUND: It's all right (smiling).  It's just part and parcel of Eastbourne.  You just get on with it a bit.  I think the crowd find it a bit more entertaining that we do (smiling).   
Well, yeah, there has been a lot of incidents in the crowd, you see something where you not normally get.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT