NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2012
Kyle Dake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Kyle.   
   
 Q.   Does it make it harder that you had to wrestle a conference foe to win that match?  
KYLE DAKE:   I guess a little bit.   He kind of knew what I was doing, knew my style a little bit.   He wrestled very defensive.   He was able to keep the score close.   
I would have liked to got my offense off a little bit better, but it didn't work out that way.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts about getting a third shot at this?   2‑0 going into the finals.   
KYLE DAKE:   It's pretty exciting.   I just really wanted to get back on that stage and be able to show people what I'm made of, go out and win another national title.   
   
 Q.   You did not get a pin this match, but you did shut another guy out.   Have you been taken down at all this year?  
KYLE DAKE:   Once.  
   
 Q.   Have you turned more to your defense than your offense this year?  
KYLE DAKE:   No.   Actually been turning more to my offense.   I've been attacking a lot more.   I think a good defense is a good offense, right?   
   
 Q.   It's like you're a different wrestler at the NCAA tournament.   You really turn it on.   Can you explain what goes into that.   How do you turn it on?  
KYLE DAKE:   It's the NCAA tournament.   There's nothing you can really say about it.   You just got to go out and wrestle.   All my focus is about wrestling right now.   I think when I'm really focused, I wrestle really well.  
   
 Q.   You're getting ready to wrestle a hot wrestler in St.John.   What do you know about him?  
KYLE DAKE:   Never wrestled him.   Don't really know much about him.   Just that he's an Iowa guy and he seems to win a lot of close matches, so it will be fun.   
   
 Q.   Cornell came in second place after last session.   How much is the team race helping each of the individuals do better here?  
KYLE DAKE:   I mean, right now we have five All‑Americans, so we're doing pretty well.   I think each one of those guys will tell you the same thing, that it's all about them, it's all about me.   The team race will handle itself as long as we do our jobs.   
I think that's the most important thing to think about, just stay focused on your goal.   
THE MODERATOR:   Kyle, thank you.   
KYLE DAKE:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT