U.S. OPEN
September 9, 1993
Helena Sukova
Todd Woodbridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, how does it feel?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   It feels pretty good.  It is always good to win a Grand Slam title even in mixed.  I think very special and you only have so many chances to win them, they are good to take.

HELENA SUKOVA:   I am very happy that we have done that because we both didn't get on the court for the first round at Wimbledon.  It is a little bit tough time after the singles so I am very happy he got here.

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   After my singles, I was on a drip as you saw, Craig, and Helena came in, saw me, I had the needle and thing; she said whatever you want to do.  So we are pretty lucky.

RICHARD FINN:  Helena, can you talk about, you know, the fact that you have a chance at winning all three now that you have won one, has that even entered your mind here?

HELENA SUKOVA:   No, I am taking one them match at a time.  I think we are very happy that we won this.  I start thinking about the next matches.


Q. Do you have any idea of how much dough you will win if you win all three?

HELENA SUKOVA:   How much dough?


Q. Dough -- money.

HELENA SUKOVA:   Would you care, if you knew?  I don't know.  Sorry, I don't know.


Q. Does it surprise you that you are at this point, winning the mixed doubles and still in the running in singles, does it surprise you to be in that position?

HELENA SUKOVA:   I happy to be in that position.  I am not thinking about if I am surprised or not.  I am very, very happy.

TODD:  I am happy, too.


Q. Todd, how much of a shot in the eye or boost is this for Australian tennis with you and Mark being in the mixed final and Wally being in the semis as well as in singles?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   I think it is very good.  You know, we have had a little difficult time in Australia; perhaps trying to get the public to realize the Australian good results over the past year.  Australians have had a fantastic year. This has really topped it off with Wally being in the semis and in the Majors.  Still has a chance to go even further.  This year, I think, Australians have collected about 4 Grand Slam titles; maybe the most they have done for a while, so I hope that that the public in Australia get to hear about all this.


Q. Wally Masur said Australian players sort of stick together and are supportive of each other.  Do you think you will watch his semifinal match?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   I will watch it from Australia.  I am going home tomorrow, but we are very supportive and I think everybody's goal-- they want to do their very best individually, but everyone is happy to boost each other along and we have a very proud history of tennis in Australia and I think we would like to keep that going and we feel proud to get good results and it is important to us to keep that honor.


Q. Is it hard to support each other even though you play against each other sometimes?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Yeah, it is very difficult to play each other when you are good friends.  But you don't play each other very often.  Out of a year you may play five or six of the guys that are constantly on the tour.  You may only play 3 of them once a year.  If you help each other, there is a lot more other people to beat than yourselves.


Q. Have you played a great deal together before?

HELENA SUKOVA:   Us.


Q. Yes.

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   First time.


Q. How did you come to play together in this tournament?

HELENA SUKOVA:   It was a little bit luck that -- Todd normally plays with Arantxa and Arantxa decided not to play the mixed over here, so Todd was deciding to play or not to play the mixed and then--

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Helena was available.


Q. Who asked who?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   I had a friend of mine go and ask.


Q. Helena, as you say, Todd plays a lot with Arantxa in mixed, but do you think this could be the start of a mixed doubles relationship on-court for the next year?

HELENA SUKOVA:   I don't know because we haven't gotten that far about talking about it, so -- we don't know yet.


Q. What is it about today's game that works in with yours?

HELENA SUKOVA:   I think he is a great doubles player and I am not so bad myself.  So I think that what makes a good team that when the players have feeling for the doubles and they can easily get together and even for the first time and play together well.


Q. How difficult is it to make the transition from playing a doubles match tonight to playing singles tomorrow, how difficult is that?

HELENA SUKOVA:   I tell you tomorrow.  It is nothing knew to me.  I mean, I have been playing singles, doubles, mixed doubles at the tournaments, so it is no different than any other tournament.


Q. What do you have to do to beat Arantxa tomorrow?

HELENA SUKOVA:   Just play better and win the last point.

RICHARD FINN:  You mentioned to Craig, you were sick; you had to retire from your first round singles match.

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   I didn't retire, I had over cramps, and they put me on a drip to get fluid into my body and half hour after the drip we went out and played, so I played a very small part in that day's match.  So that was an interesting sort of fact that I wasn't feeling too good and I was pretty close to not playing and pulling out.

HELENA SUKOVA:   After I came into the room and I saw today I didn't know if it was me seeing him or him lying down on that bench there.  


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT