WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2007
Katie O'Brien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Katie.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk us through the key points of your victory.   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Yeah, I mean, I started last night, quite late last night.  Went on quite unexpectedly.  Difficult conditions.  The court was even wet before we started.   
 I managed to get a 5-3 lead, so I was obviously quite pleased going in this morning, that I had that cushion.  Closed out the set 6-3.   
  
  Q.  On serve?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Broke serve to win the set 6-3.  Then I lost my serve beginning of the second set.  I was 5-3 down.  I kind of just kept fighting and found a way to win 7-5.   
  
  Q.  Difficult conditions today as well.  Real windy out there.   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Yeah, it was.  I played last week in Eastbourne.  It was windy there as well.  I'm kind of used to it now.  British weather (smiling).   
  
  Q.  How does it feel to be the Brit flying the flag at this stage of the day?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Yeah, it feels really good.  I mean, I think I probably had the most favorable draw out of all the Brits.  Yeah, I'm really glad that I've managed to do British women a favor.   
  
  Q.  You have your family watching today?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Yeah, they were there.   
  
  Q.  All of them?  Brother, sister?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Yeah, brother, sister, mom, dad.  A few cousins and relatives as well.   
  
  Q.  Your brother didn't queue all night for tickets, or anything.  There was some suggestion last week you said he would prefer to do it the hard way.   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  No, he was going to.  In the end, I think he got a train down yesterday.  He got stuck with the trains.  It was an absolute nightmare.  He left 7 in the morning, got here at 5 in the evening.   
 He was actually quite grateful it was delayed yesterday.   
  
  Q.  So excitement now builds to fever pitch presumably, second-round match.   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Definitely.  I mean, it was actually more of a relief more than anything that I won my first match.  After all that happened last week, I knew I had a good draw, I was almost expecting myself to win.   
 Now I think I've settled down, I've played one match, and I'm really looking forward to the next round.   
  
  Q.  Will you look to the draw?  As you said, all the British girls had difficult draws.  Were they saying to you, That's a good one?  Did you think you had the best chance out of the lot of them?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  No, they did that to me.  But I was definitely saying I think the draw has probably done me more favors than anyone else.  They all drew seeds.  It's a pity.  Yeah, we all knew I had the best draw.   
  
  Q.  Looks like you're playing Krajicek now.  That's going to be a step up for you, isn't it?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Definitely.  I have to play better than I did today, that's for sure.  I was playing some good tennis last week.  My confidence is right up there so there's no reason why.   
 I mean, she won in three sets today.  I didn't see any of it.  She obviously struggled a little bit.  I mean, it's a better draw than I could have had.  If I had to play a seed, it's not like a top 10 or anything, so there's no reason why if I don't perform to absolute maximum potential that I can't win that match.   
  
  Q.  All through the year we all ignore British tennis.  Two weeks of Wimbledon, the spotlight is firmly on you all.  Do you feel the pressure?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  A little bit.  But to be honest, we just kind of get on with it.  The only pressure I feel is more the pressure I put on myself more than anything.  I have high expectations of myself.  That's one thing I actually just try and manage.   
 But, I mean, as long as we just go out there and do our best, I think you've just got to ignore what everyone else says or feels about you.   
  
  Q.  You're targeting presumably top hundred?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Definitely.  Things have just kind of flown by the last two weeks.  Before Eastbourne, I was almost dropping out of the top 200.  Now the top 100 is not too far away at all.   
  
  Q.  What's made the difference?  What's been the sudden trigger that's caused this run?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  It's hard to say.  In Eastbourne, I was just -- I had nothing to lose.  I was just really determined to go out there and prove myself.  Just a lot of confidence.  It surprised me more than anything.   
 I can't actually put my finger on and it say, Oh, that's what made the difference.  It just kind of happened.  I've been putting in the hard work over the year, it's starting to pay off now, which is perfect timing.   
  
  Q.  You have academic siblings.  You did very well as school as well.  How hard a decision was it to go down the tennis route?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  I mean, I could have quite easily -- I did two A levels in maths and French.  I could have gone to university.  In the end, I think tennis is a unique opportunity.  I wouldn't change it for the world.  There's so much success to be had in tennis, so many opportunities.   
 I mean, there's no reason why I might not pursue an academic career later in my career.  While I've still got this opportunity, I'm going to take the tennis as far as I can.   
  
  Q.  Is this your biggest payday?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  For sure.  I don't know how much, but it will be by a long way.   
  
  Q.  What are you going to do with the money?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Good question.  I might do a bit of shopping and also help traveling, tennis expenses for the rest of the year.  Speaking to my sister before this tournament, she was looking to buy a house in Hull.  I said, if I do well during the summer, I'd maybe go halves with her.   
  
  Q.  Not a bad treat.   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  No.  Not for me to live in, but to make an investment back home in Hull where the property is much cheaper than it is down here.   
  
  Q.  What was your previous best payday?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  Probably Wimbledon last year, you know, first round.  To be honest, the money's not a big deal.  I'm more than happy to pick up the ranking points and be in the second round now.   
  
  Q.  Where do you base yourself at the moment?  Roehampton, is it?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  I've been at Roehampton, and I was at Queen's Club before that for a couple of years.   
  
  Q.  Do you live on-site there?   
 KATIE O'BRIEN:  No, I don't.  I live in Wimbledon.  I just travel there each day.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT