SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2009
Javier Arenas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: We'll start with Javier Arenas. Could you talk about the upcoming match-up?   
 JAVIER ARENAS: It's a great opportunity that me and my teammates have to compete in the SEC Championship once again. I think we worked hard all year in order to put ourselves in this position, as well as the coaches.   
 And we look forward to going in and just being the best of our ability and have fun while doing it.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. Coach Meyer talked about how good of a returner you are and Coach Saban was lauding your ability. What is it about your game? What do you think you do best in the return game?  
 JAVIER ARENAS: I can't really tell you. I guess being a return man is more of natural ability as opposed to something being taught. I just go out there and I do what I've been blessed with. I guess you could say I'm quick.  
 I've got great blockers, and as a unit, punt return unit, we try to excel and we try to execute each assignment in order to put ourselves in a position to be successful. So it's a unit. It's a unit thing, and it's all 11 of us working together but me individually, when you ask that question I think it's just my natural ability.  
  
  Q. And with all the talk of the rematch and everything and you guys weren't trying to talk about Florida in the beginning, the middle, but when did you start thinking about Florida this season?  
 JAVIER ARENAS: If we don't win games why think about them, know what I'm saying. We had games such as Tennessee and such as LSU that we had to focus on trying to beat those guys. If we don't beat those guys we don't play Florida. Why are we thinking about Florida?   
 At this point we are. It's that time. It's time to go. I think at the beginning of the season we were just a little bit let's try to get back to that point. But once the season started we had to take care of business and focus on the moment, we had to live in the moment and execute what was in front of us.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the fourth quarter of last year's SEC Championship game? How did that affect the way you all came back this year? You've seen the play with resolve all year and maybe it came from that fourth quarter of that game.   
 JAVIER ARENAS: To be honest with you, I don't even remember the fourth quarter. All I remember is we didn't finish strong in the fourth quarter. That was the story, for the most part not all season, but the season before that was the story.   
 And it kind of carried on into that game. All I could tell you about that fourth quarter is we didn't finish and that's something that we've worked on all season. It's something that we tried to improve in and I think we're better at it. So, I mean, we'll basically see. You know?   
  
  Q. Seems like you all do have the confidence in the fourth quarter this year that in the fourth quarter you feel like you're not going to lose?  
 JAVIER ARENAS: I hope everyone feels like that. That they're not going to lose in the fourth quarter. Because if you don't feel that way you shouldn't be out there. I don't think that's the focus for the most part. I think the focus is executing each assignment and just doing your job in order to be successful.   
 Because if you're thinking about trying to win in the fourth quarter, you're thinking about the wrong thing.   
  
  Q. A lot of your success and the way people know you is by your return game. Can you talk a little bit about just playing defense and how you work on that just balancing those two?  
 JAVIER ARENAS: First and foremost, I think people used to know me and recognize me off my return game. I think they recognize me now as a cornerback now.   
 And the stuff that they see and the stuff I'm about to say, I think a lot of people would agree with. With Coach Saban implemented the things he implemented, I think it's put me in a position to be successful off blitzes, the techniques and the type of coverage that we play.   
 I think it helps a lot. And as a team unit and just my mentality, I think all that plays a vital role in me becoming a better defensive back.  
  
  Q. How much of him being a defensive minded guy has helped you, what's he like in terms of a coach in terms of that aspect?  
 JAVIER ARENAS: I think it helps a lot. I think you could put him with anyone and it would help them out a lot, a coach that is so good at what he does. And me personally it's helped me out a lot.   
 It instilled a lot of confidence in me when I realized the stuff he did really worked, when you execute it.  
  
  Q. You guys knew for a couple of weeks -- I know you said you weren't thinking about Florida throughout the season but you knew for a couple of weeks you would be playing them in the SEC Championship game. Was there any preparation, mental or watching film or thinking about them? When you played Mississippi State they run a similar offense as what Florida does was there any talk about that?  
 JAVIER ARENAS: I think every year you're obviously aware of the similarities between Mississippi State's offense and Florida's. But besides that, again, you gotta take on the challenge that's before you before you start thinking about any other things, you know what I mean? You can't get to the promised land if you're stumbling over the rocks before you even get there. You're trying to -- you're looking too far ahead you're not focusing on what's going on at the moment. You get knocked off you don't end up there. You get knocked off. When you end up there it's in a bad position with a bad record because you were thinking about that before you even got there, you know.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about what you've seen of Florida's receivers and how they compare to last year, any differences or similarities you seal?  
 JAVIER ARENAS: I don't think it's any different. I think they just lost a great guy. You've still got great guys there. So it's enough said about that. The guys that they have there, great receivers. Obviously they make plays. They block very, very well. Great hands. Great chemistry with the quarterback.   
 I mean, I guess it's the idea receiver quarterback relationship as well as talent that you want on offense.  
  
  Q. When you were talking about the improvement you made on the defensive side, you said you used to be known as more kick return, now you're known for defense. How much motivation was that for you, to want to be somebody who is known as more of a complete player than just primarily a return man and sparking your improvement?  
 JAVIER ARENAS: It's not really motivation, because I've been motivated from the get-go, just to try to -- not even try to prove just go out and do what I know how to do and that's play defensive back. And let the rest of it take care of itself. I don't go out there to prove anything.   
 I just go out there to do what I'm supposed to do and let everyone else figure everything else out. So it's not motivation for me. It's just what I'm supposed to do to help my team become successful. It's second nature. That's what you're supposed to do.  
  
  Q. In a big game like this, the special teams is going to make a difference. And just the way you approach the return game, how hard is it not to be patient, to want to break one every time you touch it?  
 JAVIER ARENAS: It's very hard, especially when you're someone like me. You're very eager to get things done.   
 I've always got to have people on the sidelines telling me relax, calm down, it's going to come to you, be patient. I'm like: You're right. I need somebody in my corner to help me out with things like that. I want to get back and make the play.   
 I know at the same time trying to do too much, I have experience from trying to do too much and fumbling the ball or muffing the ball, all the worst that you can expect. I had experience from that. And I think it's helped me grow as a return man back there.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT