MLS CUP
November 20, 2009
David Beckham
Landon Donovan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us today. Welcome to Qwest Field in Seattle for MLS Cup 2009. We will begin our press conference now with our guests from the L.A. Galaxy. 
 With that I will turn it over to Patrick Donnelly. 
 PATRICK DONNELLY: Thanks for joining us today. At this time I'd like to introduce L.A. Galaxy forward Landon Donovan, and L.A. Galaxy midfielder, David Beckham.
 Without further ado, we're gonna go ahead and open it up for questions. 

 Q. Hi, David. Welcome to Seattle. Bet you guys are very happy to be here. Most important, David, are you going to Europe after this? Just wondering your experience of being a part of the MLS, of this great team, and what is your overall view? Do you feel this has helped you grow as a player? What have you learned from soccer that plays here in the United States? And for Landon, an opportunity to become a champion of the MLS, and I wanted your perspectives about that. 
 DAVID BECKHAM: Good afternoon. I think it's been a great experience for myself and for the whole team this season. You know, always helps when you have a certain amount of success, and we've had that so far. 
 But we're not happy. We still want to win this game on Sunday. Hopefully we will. We deserve to be here. Real Salt Lake deserves to be here. Two good teams with good players in it. It's gonna be a good game. I hope it's an entertaining game for the fans.
 But, yeah, I will be going back to AC Milan once the season is over, about the 28th of December. I will be there for a few months, so that's it. 

 Q. And your perspectives, Landon? Obviously you're the Most Valuable Player of the league. How does that make you feel, sir?
 LANDON DONOVAN: I'm excited for Sunday. I'm very excited for Sunday. I think the message that we want to remember and get across to all our guys is that these opportunities are rare. You want to take advantage of it. 
 So I don't think anyone's gonna remember in a few years if we got to the final and lost. They'll remember if we won. We want to take hold of this and grab it and win it. 

 Q. David, congratulations on getting to the final. Given what this team has gone through the last couple years, if you were to win this championship, would it mean as much to you as winning a title in England or Spain has?
 DAVID BECKHAM: Of course. I think in any sport, you know, if you ask the same question to any athlete, you know, success is always something that never gets old. 
 You know, I've been able to play in great leagues and play for big teams, and winning Championships and Cups with those teams is always exciting. 
 And so is this. This is the first time I've been in the playoffs and the first time I've been in the MLS Cup. I'm proud to be on this team. It's been an exciting season for us. 
 You know, but like Landon says, it's not over yet. We still want to go into this game on Sunday and play well and win. You know, we won't be happy if we don't do that. But it's been a successful and enjoyable season. We're all proud to be part of this organization. 

 Q. If you would both talk about, Landon, for you, how this compares your feelings going in from other MLS Cup finals? And, David, following up on Grant's question, just kind of your emotions coming into this Cup final as opposed to other Cup finals that you've played in?
 LANDON DONOVAN: For me, personally, this has been more rewarding than any of the previous trips to this point in the season.
 It's been challenging. It's been difficult for a few years here. To put everything you have into something and then to be successful is very rewarding. I think we've all done that as a team. 
 I can't think of a guy that hasn't put their heart into this team this year. I think that's the reason we're here. 
 DAVID BECKHAM: I can't remember your question.

 Q. How are your emotions coming into this Cup final as opposed to other Cup finals?
 DAVID BECKHAM: Like I said before, it's the same. These occasions don't come every year, so you have to make sure that you enjoy them. We've got a lot of young guys in our team that are excited, but we need to stay focused. That's the biggest thing for us.
 But, of course, you play in a Cup final, it's exciting, the whole experience. You have to enjoy it, because the day goes past so quickly. So you have to enjoy the moment. 

 Q. Landon, this is a little bit of a follow-up to that last question. Talk about your perspective has changed since you won the two titles with San Jose in terms of coming to this kind of match and having the opportunity to win a championship?
 LANDON DONOVAN: Well, in the past I was a little spoiled, and I thought getting to the playoffs and getting to this point was gonna happen every year. The reality is it takes a lot of hard work that you don't see when you're a young player. You don't realize it. 
 This year I've been more involved and put myself more on the line than I ever have. When you do that and you're successful, it means a lot to you. I think there's a lot of guys on our team who can say the same. That makes it special. 

 Q. Landon, you were named MVP and sort of recognized for your leadership this year. David, you've obviously talked several times since your return about your commitment to the club. Could each of you talk about what you've seen from the other in terms of the efforts to sort of rebuild this locker room and this team, sort of reinstill a winning attitude in the club that hasn't made the playoffs for sometime and had some problems the past couple years?
 LANDON DONOVAN: Well, I can't -- you guys don't see what goes on every day. You guys see what happens when the lights come on on Saturday nights. I think from that standpoint, you see how helpful David has been. 
 But what we see every day in the locker room, on the road, when we travel, has been tremendous. When your most talented player or players are doing that on your team, then everyone else follows. 
 The other thing you don't see is this guy has been hurt or sick for probably the last six or seven games. You read about it ans you don't hear it, but he gets on with it and he plays. That's helped our team a lot.

 Q. David, what do you see from Landon? 
 DAVID BECKHAM: I think what you see is what you get with Landon. He's an exceptional talent. You know, he deserves the MVP. 
 But like Landon says, same about me. He's worked great throughout the week. He's a player that plays -- you know, that I respect. He's a player that players look at and look up to. 
 I think that's important when you've got a captain like that and when you've got an MVP player in our team, you look to them for advise, you look to them for how they play on the field, and how they conduct themselves, whether it's in the locker room, whether it's on the field, or whether it's just out for dinner. He's a perfect example for that.
 We've come together this season, and it's not just about what me and Landon have done. We're here in the MLS Cup final because of the unity that we've got in the team. We've got good players throughout our team. 
 We've got rookie of the year from last year, Sean Franklin, and rookie of the year this year with Omar. So we've good players throughout our team that have performed well all throughout the team. 
 And also, with a manager like Bruce Arena, you know, it's a good mix. It's worked well, but I can't speak any higher than I can for Landon, because he's been exceptional this season. 

 Q. For Landon, as somebody that's kind of invested in this league for a long time, could you speak to what Seattle has meant, this franchise and sort the fittingness of ending this season at this particular venue. And David, I covered the Sounders this years, and Freddie Ljungberg has just seemed amused and confused all season about sort of figuring out the champion of the league after the regular season is over. Have you sort of come to terms with playoffs, and what do you think of them?
 LANDON DONOVAN: I think this franchise has been unbelievable. It starts from the top. It starts with the front office, ownership, and then it leaks, down it Sigi, who's done a great job. Freddie and Kasey who have done a tremendous job. 
 And then the fans. You don't have any of it without the fans. They're not only - I remember when we played here, they're not only an excitable crowd, they're a knowledgeable crowd. They know and understand what's going on. This is in, my opinion, a perfect place to have a game like this. 
 For us, it's so exciting today going out and training. You can already picture what the atmosphere is gonna be like when we go out -- when we went out for training today. I think it's gonna be a lot of fun. 
 DAVID BECKHAM: Yeah, obviously this is the first time for me that I've been involved in the playoffs. The moment we got in the playoffs, you could feel the expectations level rise throughout our club. That's a special feeling. 
 When we beat Chivas, which any game against your rivals is huge. Once we beat those, it was another great feeling. 
 But then playing against Houston, which we knew it was gonna be a tough game, and then winning in overtime was a really special night for us.
 Like I said, you know, this league is a very good league. There's many great franchises throughout this league, and many great players. 
 Seattle, like Landon's just said, it's a breath of fresh air that they've come into the league the way they have. They've got an amazing setup, like Landon said, again, through the front office all the way through to the team. 
 Like I said, you know, it's an incredible setup with the fans. You know, we're honored to be playing here. We just hope that quite a lot of the fans turn up and support us and maybe stick our jerseys on for the day. 

 Q. You guys haven't beaten Real Salt Lake since June 18th, 2007. Would you clarify what makes them such a tough opponent? 
 LANDON DONOVAN: Real's strength is in the midfield and forwards. They've got six guys who can pull off pretty special plays in given moments, maybe seven guys. Between whichever two of their three forwards start, and then their whole midfield with Andy Williams, Beckerman, Morales, and Will Johnson. And Mathis you can throw in that mix. 
 That's the strength of their team. When they get the ball and get moving and they're active and they have good rhythm, they're a very difficult team to beat.
 Our intention is not to let them do that. We're gonna make it difficult on them. I think they've had it in some of their games a little bit too easy to do those things. We're gonna make it difficult.
 And then we think that we've got enough quality on our team to make the plays that count to win us the game. 

 Q. The team had a little bit of a rocky start to the season. Can you talk about how the team has matured to get to this game?
 LANDON DONOVAN: Well, I've been here from the beginning. David came halfway and saw probably the end of our first phase of the season. The first part of the season was frustrating, but also we could tell that there were good things to come. 
 We played well in parts, but we didn't play well for 90 minutes at a time. I think to be a successful team, you have to have that. I think getting David here kind of solidified that part of it. We had finally built a foundation that was decent, but we didn't have enough quality to make real plays going forward. David obviously brings that. 
 DAVID BECKHAM: Yeah, when I arrived and I saw -- I saw a lot of the games while I was in Milan. It was quite early in the morning, so I was watching. 
 But it was interesting to watch, because the results might not have been there, but I could see that there was a huge improvement to the other seasons that I played. 
 That's why I was excited to come back. I knew there had been an improvement with the players that had been brought in, whether they was young players or whether they was experienced players. Obviously with Bruce as well. He brings that experience of knowing the players throughout the league. 
 I was excited to come back. Soon as I came back, my first training session, I would I could see straightaway there was an improvement. It was something I was excited about, and I was proved right. 

 Q. David, you talked about potentially making an investment in MLS after you retire. What's the rationale for doing that? 
 DAVID BECKHAM: Well, you know, I love the game, so I want to be involved in the game in some way when I finish. Owning a franchise is something that's definitely possible and something that I'm really thinking about, and I think will happen eventually. 
 But, you know, I've always said since I came over here that I want to be an ambassador of the game and an ambassador of the MLS and be involved in making this sport, which is the No. 1 sport everywhere else in the world apart from the U.S.
 Like I've said so many times before, I'm not saying that it is gonna be the No. 1 sport, because there are so many other great sports here in the country, but it can definitely grow and it can definitely get bigger. I see that it will over the years. But it takes time.
 Something that I'm looking forward to being part of. 

 Q. Landon, you spoke about the fun elements of this game. What can you and Dave do in terms of your experience, particularly with regards to the younger players, to make sure that the fun stays in the team and it doesn't become nerves?
 LANDON DONOVAN: I think the last three games have helped us a lot for guys that haven't played in this kind of situation. This is obviously ramped up a little bit more because it's a Cup final. 
 So far, I've been really impressed with the way the guys have handled it. I think it hasn't been nerves, it's been excitement. I think we're all really excited to just get the game going. The buildup sometimes feels a little bit long, especially because we played Friday night and we'll have nine days before the game. 
 But if there's any sense of that in the team, we'll be aware of it and we can kind of nip it in the bud right away. Up to this point, it just seems like excitement. I think we're gonna be fine. 

 Q. David, you played in Seattle before with Madrid. Talk about that experience and what you expect from the crowd here on Sunday. Landon, you too. 
 DAVID BECKHAM: Yeah, I do remember that game. It was a tough game, but, you know, great to be back in Seattle. It's a bit colder now than it was when I was here with Madrid. 
 No, we're just happy to be here. Happy to be involved in the whole atmosphere. I spoke to Pete a few weeks back, and he said, People are just walking around the city with the shirt on, with the jerseys on, which is incredible. 
 So you can see and you can feel the effects that this Seattle team have had on the city. So it's a great place to have the final. Hopefully the atmosphere will be as good for our game on Sunday as it is in every other game for the Sounders.

 Q. David, how's your ankle? Did you train today? What impact does the artificial turf here have on something like that?
 DAVID BECKHAM: Yeah, today was the first day I trained. Unfortunately, it's been frustrating, because since the game, I haven't been able to train because bone bruising is pretty -- you got be kind of careful with it not to get any kicks on it. 
 So it's been frustrating, but I'm sure it'll be fine for Sunday. Definitely be fine for Sunday. It's one of those things that you just have to get through. After five, ten minutes of the game, I'm sure I'll forget all about it.

 Q. You took injections before the final game in Madrid. Is this something that might require that as well?
 DAVID BECKHAM: Yeah, definitely. But it's part of sports. You know, if you want to be involved in certain games, then you have to make certain sacrifices. That's the way it is. But it'll be fine.

 Q. I'd just like to see what it's gonna mean for both of you to take the Cup home, if that happens.
 LANDON DONOVAN: What's it's gonna...

 Q. Mean, in your heart. 
 LANDON DONOVAN: It would mean a lot. It would mean more than any other one has, because when you win something when you're fully invested in it and you put everything you have into it, it's special. 
 I would say this is the first time in my career that I've had that feeling of putting everything I have into this, so that would be very special. 
 DAVID BECKHAM: I agree. Picking up a Cup at the end of the season, a trophy at the end of the season, is always special. We've got this chance. We've worked hard all season, and we deserve to be here. To get our hands on that trophy would be very special.
 But like Landon said, it's been a good season for us. There's been a few bumps in the road along the way, and that kind of thing happens. But I think we've quietened a few people this year, so we're happy on that point. It would be nice to win this game on Sunday. 

 Q. David, you spoke about your plans after football. How long do you think you will play on for? 
 DAVID BECKHAM: I'd like to say I've got a good two or three, maybe four years left in me. Have to wait and see and take it week by week and month by month and year by year. Especially being 34 years old. Your bones start to ache a little bit more in the mornings when you're waking up, especially chasing three boys around every day. 
 But I feel good and I feel really fit. I'm playing a lot of soccer at the moment and I'm enjoying it. And then once obviously I finish here, I go to Milan and play some more football, which will be enjoyable. 
 So I think I've got a good few years left. 

 Q. David, is it your intention to return to the Galaxy after next year's World Cup?
 DAVID BECKHAM: Yeah. Yeah, I'll obviously hopefully be involved in the World Cup, and then I'll return for the rest of the season, so... 

 Q. Landon, for your near future, what's in store for you maybe early next year after the season is over here in the MLS?
 LANDON DONOVAN: I'll worry about that after Sunday. 

 Q. The team's gone from having one of the worst records to being here in the final and being possibly champions. If you were to pinpoint a couple of concrete things that happened during the year that have changed it around, what would you pick out? For both of you. 
 DAVID BECKHAM: For me personally, it's just the effort of the players. That's been the biggest thing. You know, people -- someone asked me the other day what's motivated me and what's motivated the team to perform the way we have. Every morning I'm motivated by just getting into training and working hard. 
 There's not one thing that's motivated me more this year than any other year. It's just been one of those years where there has been obstacles. And it's about how teams and individuals respond to those obstacles. Some are bigger than others. 
 We've responded in the right way: We've done it on the field and we've kept quiet off it. Whether that's annoyed people or not, it's made us happy. We're aware of where we want to be at the end of the season. It's a big game for us Sunday. 
 LANDON DONOVAN: Well, the basis -- well, there's a few points that stand out to me. One was having Bruce come in and just create stability, which we hadn't had for a while. 
 And candidly, the second was David's reaction to everything that's gone on. Life is about choices. He could have come in and chosen to be something different than he has been. He chose to be a man and be -- want this team to be successful. 
 Without him, we're not where we are. We can cut it any way we want, but that's the reality of it. He's been tremendous. 

 Q. David, how important has the relationship been between you and either Chris Birtchall or Chris Klein on the right side to give you freedom to both play in the middle and find space on the right winning when possible?
 DAVID BECKHAM: I think it's been good when Chris has come in. I think he's always a player -- he has a lot of experience. He's a player that always gives 100% in a game, 110% in a game. 
 Obviously Chris Birtchall, he's a player that every team kind of needs. He sits there and blocks things and breaks down plays, but he also can go forward and play decisive balls.
 We've been lucky in our team in year, like Landon said, with Bruce coming in. But also with Donovan Ricketts. He's been a huge plus for us this season. He's saved us in certain games and won us matches. 
 So not just obviously midfield players, but other players in our team have been exceptional. 

 Q. David, one of the big off-season stories in this league is going to be the collective bargaining agreement negotiations. Obviously you could have a very influential voice for the players in those negotiations. How much do you plan on using that voice, and how does it complicate things that you could be an owner before too long and be on the other side?
 DAVID BECKHAM: That wouldn't complicate it at all, because at the end of the day, I've been a soccer player for many years. I know how players want things to be done, and I understand what they want in life and in their careers. 
 So that's not gonna get in the way of anything. I think it's always important that I'm involved in certain things that are going on, meetings that are going on with the players union, you know, and decisions that are being made. 
 Anything I can be involved in, of course I'll always step up for that. 

 Q. (Question in Spanish.)
 LANDON DONOVAN: I can't believe it took that long for a Spanish question. (In Spanish.)
 THE MODERATOR: At this time, I would like to thank Landon and David and everyone for joining us today. 
 DAVID BECKHAM: Thank you. 
 LANDON DONOVAN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT