ATP CUP
February 5, 2021
Apostolos Tsitispas
Stefanos Tsitsipas
Michail Pervolarakis
Markos Kalovelonis
Petros Tsitsipas
Alex 
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Please sum up this week's experience for the Greek team.
APOSTOLOS TSITSIPAS:   First of all, I have to thanks --
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   To thank.
APOSTOLOS TSITSIPAS:   If we decide to make an English lesson right now, let's switch off the microphones and do that.  I don't have a problem.  Also I would like to make some French lessons.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Back to the question (smiling).
APOSTOLOS TSITSIPAS:   Yeah, it was a great week.  It was a really good week with the team.  I want to thank all the team for the commitment in our effort.
Unfortunately we didn't manage to qualifying to the semis, but still we did a great job all this week.  I think we gain a lot of experience for the next years, the one that coming.
So one more time we really enjoyed ATP Cup.  I'm sure is going to be something very attractive for tennis in the future.
I want to thanks ATP, of course, for all this organization because they were behind this new format, and Tennis Australia who hosted all this beautiful event.
Now about the tournament.  I guess there are two more days to go through, right?  It's a lot of interesting matches ahead.  I would like more people to follow and watch the event because it's really, really beautiful and very excited.
Q. All the guys except Stefanos.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I was waiting for that (laughter).
Q. Talk about your experience and how you all have enjoyed this.  Greece was part of the ATP Cup last year.  To go through and say what you're going to be able to get out of this experience.
MICHAIL PERVOLARAKIS:   It's obviously a great experience being able to be in Australia for all of us during this difficult time, and playing this new and very exciting tournament.
For myself, I think for my other teammates, too, Marcos and Petros, it's unbelievable to have such a superstar in our team, being able to play with him, be his teammate, play with him on the court, even watch him from the stands.
I am personally very grateful to be here.  I think it was a great experience for me, like it was last year.  I'm looking forward on getting better and hopefully having better results in the future.
MARKOS KALOVELONIS:   I think he said everything.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   You have to give an answer.
APOSTOLOS TSITSIPAS:   It's about Marcos.  The last sentence of Michail is that he wants to work harder and to improve, so he comes here next year and have more expectations about himself.  Are you ready, guys, for the challenge?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Marcos, do you want to give an answer?  Express your thoughts.  Mistakes, doesn't matter.
MARKOS KALOVELONIS:   We will try our best this year and come back stronger next year.  I think we can win more matches, I really do.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   That's a good one.
MARKOS KALOVELONIS:   Even last year we lost a couple of matches close.  This year also.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   We have proved ourselves.
MARKOS KALOVELONIS:   We can do that.  Have to improve some things and we can do it.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I believe doubles is the key.
Petros.
PETROS TSITSIPAS:   The guys said it all.  It is the way it is.  Obviously the experience is amazing just to watch, even to watch and to learn from one of the best players in the world.  Even I think Mike played a really good match today, even though he lost two sets.  I think it was pretty tight match.
I mean, I don't know if likely, the Spanish pair didn't play the doubles, so we got to win in the end.  It's good.  It's been really good.  It's been really good, I don't know, three weeks because we spent two weeks in quarantine.  We got to know each other better.  That's obviously very important.
As a team, I feel that we are growing every day.  We are improving ourselves in many aspects, not only tennis-wise, also people.  We understand each other better.  I think that's very important on building a good team for the future.
Q. Are you happy with the ATP Cup as your lead-up for the Australian Open?  Do you feel like you're well-prepared to make a hundred here?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I give good matches, two good matches, that I was able to go out on the court and try and focus on giving 100%.  I think I reached very close to that.  There were certain things that came be improved.  There were certain aspects in the game, certain moments in the game where I could have closed it earlier, maybe have figured out things a bit earlier.
But despite all of this, I liked my consistency.  That's something I really liked, how concentrated on each single set I was.  I wasn't willing to give up.  I think that was the key aspect of just going out there and believing, kind of like believing in my work ethic, the way I'm going to fight in every single match regardless of the outcome or regardless of anything that's going to come across me.
Q. Is there some small part of you that's glad you're not playing the next two days given you might have to play a first-round match on Monday?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I also needed some rest.
APOSTOLOS TSITSIPAS:   Practice tomorrow.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Yes (smiling).
But maybe these three days off will be good.  I will still be practicing, continue doing all of the job and the fitness and exercises that I have to do.
APOSTOLOS TSITSIPAS:   And find the small moments.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I need to keep the pattern going.  It's an everyday process.  It doesn't mean if you're doing well you have to stop or take a long break.
Right now I'm good physically, I'm good mentally.  I'm willing to just go out there and give everything I have.  This tournament means a lot to me.  It's an important tournament in which I have the opportunity to play for myself and play for the people, the Aussie Greeks that are out there, supporting me, giving me their love and their appreciation for showing up and playing here, which means a lot.
Q. How important is that Greek aspect here?
APOSTOLOS TSITSIPAS:   Italian, as well.
Q. This is the biggest Greek population outside of Greece.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   We dreamed of maybe hosting a Grand Slam.  We'll have it right here.  We don't have to go anywhere (laughter).
We've been blessed with this.  It's the Happy Slam for a reason.  The weather is perfect.  The ambience is perfect.  For us, it's very beneficial.  We have the side of the spectators, which the majority of them is with us, giving us their chants, trying to be one with us.
The Greek community here is very welcoming.  Every single year, regardless if we're in Brisbane or Sydney or Perth, they're everywhere, all over Australia.  They're always there to give us a big hug, welcome us, just host us.  That's what makes us such a proud nation.  That's what makes me so excited coming back here.  I know that I have a second home that I can rely on.  I know I have people that are in the same mindset and in the same race, the same culture, in a place that personally I'm familiar with.
It's an English-speaking country and language that takes the majority of people here.  So for me it's a big plus.  It's a big bonus every single year being here, being able to get that.  Not many players have the opportunity to receive something like this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT