BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2015
Zack Sucher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ZACK SUCHER: That was fun.  
   
 Q. Just comment on the round.   
ZACK SUCHER: I've been playing good lately. I had last week off, I guess, which was nice. Worked on a few things with my coach, and they all panned out good today.  
So it was fun. I hit the ball. Kept it in play. And obviously I putted really well, which was the key.  
   
 Q. What did you work on?  
ZACK SUCHER: Yeah, we worked on setup. We worked on getting my hips more open, I guess more closed to set up. I was having‑‑ I'm not very mechanical. So he just said put your right hip back, and I was‑‑ ball striking hasn't been great. And it was really good today. So really good since then.  
   
 Q. What was your confidence like coming into this; did you know you could do this well?  
ZACK SUCHER: My confidence‑‑ I don't know, it was‑‑ I feel like I'm playing great for about two months now without getting much out of it from the tournament. And I played great leading up to it.   
And I come into the tournament and scoring terrible. Had a few big misses, and I shoot a bunch of even par rounds, and it was like let's go back to working on it. Take a week off, I shoot a bunch of low numbers, and come back out here and shoot a bunch of even pars.  
I keep going into each week with confidence, but every week it's been like back down. And so this week I was I'm going to go out and try to act like it isn't(inaudible) ‑‑ it's been great.  
   
 Q. (Inaudible).   
ZACK SUCHER: Exactly right. This is by far the best round of the year I played. So this is nice going forward with confidence.  
   
 Q. Nine birdies, nine pars, (inaudible)?  
ZACK SUCHER: The last two I parred. Last two holes I parred. 17 was a huge break. I hit, roughed off the tee in the hazard, bounced down in the fairway, which was huge.   
Actually did exact the same thing Monday in the Pro‑Am. Got a rock in there. It's nice to do it. It was almost the identical bounce. Might have been the same rock.   
So that was a huge break. Might have been a three‑pointer, because the drop wasn't in a very good spot where I'd have to drop from the hazard. That was a really good break. And 18 hit the putt about a foot harder and it goes, and a couple inches I would've made it. So going into the rest of the week, just (inaudible) as it was today.  
   
 Q. Had you played here before?  
ZACK SUCHER: This is my first year. So this is awesome. This place is incredible.  
   
 Q. You like‑‑ obviously the format worked out for you today. Do you like that format, being aggressive?  
ZACK SUCHER: I think it's the format I needed with the year that I've had coming forward. Like, all right, let's go out and like don't try to post a number, just make a bunch of birdies.   
So I think that actually helped. That might have helped a little, saying, like, I play this game a lot back‑‑ growing up, this is the game I played every weekend at my home club. So I think it might be a little different mindset. I might just do it more often.  
   
 Q. No 3‑putts?  
ZACK SUCHER: No 3‑putts. Rolled it really well. Missed (inaudible) probably missed the last hole.  
   
 Q. Have an early tee time tomorrow. How do you relax?  
ZACK SUCHER: The food has been great here so far. Go eat. I'm sure I'll sleep well. We did a long hike yesterday. So I've been sleeping great since I've been here.  
   
 Q. In terms of the area, have you been up to the lake some? Have you enjoyed the cars down for Hot August Nights?  
ZACK SUCHER: We haven't been to the cars yet. But we went over‑‑ my wife's here. My dad's here. We went over and did like a five‑and‑a‑half‑mile hike yesterday along the west side of Lake Tahoe. We did like the Rubicon Trail. It was amazing. Went swimming a couple times in there. That might have been the key.   
   
 Q. What was your first thoughts when you came here Monday and played in the Pro‑Am?  
ZACK SUCHER: I love this style of golf, this scenic, beautiful golf is‑‑ almost all my favorite courses are this type of style.   
So I enjoyed‑‑ all I really tried to do on Monday and Tuesday was get a feel for how far the ball was going. I think we got the right formula going.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT