SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2015
Ed Kirby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 71 today, and I guess the weather's improved, but also you probably feel, what the heck, just go out and have fun today.EDDIE KIRBY: Yes, that was kind of the attitude.  Jim and I talked about it last night.  We got through the cut and it was a tough nine holes to finish yesterday, having not walked for four months, I ran out of gas yesterday. And when you're starting to think about a cut, it's amazing how you go to that. So today we went out with the attitude that we were just going to try to hit shots.  And I hit a lot of good shots today, made a few putts, missed a couple, but everybody is going to do that.Q. Was there one area that held your round together today?EDDIE KIRBY: Probably the par on 8.  Because I bogeyed 7 again today.  I 3-putted 7 to go back to even. And then I got up-and-down from right of the green on 8.  And I stole one.  I felt like I hit a very poor second shot, and made a par. And went to 9, hit a beautiful third shot, made a birdie. So when you get relaxed out here you can play better.  Yesterday, I was not relaxed the last nine holes.  So most of the day I was relaxed.  And to finish with a birdie on 18 that was great.Q. How far was the putt?EDDIE KIRBY: About three feet.  I like that length.  Three feet for birdie on 18 is a great one.Q. That was in front of the crowd.EDDIE KIRBY: That was really neat.  My daughter came running out of the gallery and gave me a hug. It's been a great day, a great week and having Jim with me for -- sharing this with someone -- these guys do it by themselves and you can tell it's their job, but for me it's fun.  And to share it with Jim, and a guy like Jim, it really doesn't get any better.Q. He's in pretty good shape.EDDIE KIRBY: He's in better shape than I am and I think he's got me by a few years.  But he keeps up, I'll tell you.  And this is the hardest walk I think that you're going to find.  I went to bed last night, my legs were killing me.  And I got to get rested again tonight, because tomorrow is one more trek here.  Hopefully, we'll have a good day and either way we have had a great week.Q. I was going to ask you about your, had you, were you one of the alumni that played here five years ago?EDDIE KIRBY: I was.  I played here in the National Club Pro five years ago.  Unfortunately, I missed the cut.  So, I had phlebitis at that time, which was weird.  And I did not play well. But I did get, I played a practice round and I played one tournament round on this course.  So, yeah, I'm familiar with it.  But I don't care how familiar you are, it's going to get you.Q. They reversed the nines and that didn't make much difference for you probably today.EDDIE KIRBY: No, no.Q. Or this week.EDDIE KIRBY: I drove the ball well again, probably not as good as the first day, but if you drive it well here and the fairways aren't too wet, you can get some mid to short irons into greens.  But we were out here hitting 3-wood, 4-iron, hybrids, into the par-4s.  And as hard as the par-3s play and the par-5s, I can't sniff getting to any of them in two. So it's a big golf course and fortunately it's not just about length.  So I can think my way around this as good as anybody at times.  And you got to make some putts.  And Jim read the greens well today and hopefully tomorrow we'll play just as well.Q. We have had PGA presidents that played in Majors, we have had PGA presidents who played throughout our championships through the years, but we can't recall of a PGA president caddieing the entire route in a Major.EDDIE KIRBY: Well, I tell you what, I, after last year, we made a deal, he made a deal with me the year before, to get to caddie for me last year. And after I missed the cut last year I said, Jim, if I make it back, if you'll come back on the bag.  And he did.  And it's just so cool. But, you know, this takes me six rounds to qualify for this, as a club professional.  The U.S. Senior Open takes one round.  So it doesn't have the same -- this you got to earn it. It's, really, the PGA members are here supporting the event, a lot of PGA members out there volunteering.  And it's our senior championship.  So, it's so cool to have him.  It's really.Q. Those six rounds are in the sectional first?EDDIE KIRBY: Two in the sectional, the senior sectional and then four at the National Senior Club Pro.  That's how we qualify to get here.Q. That's quite a trek to get here.EDDIE KIRBY: It is.  And I didn't almost even make the National Senior Club Pro, I had an emergency appendectomy the week prior to the National Senior Club Pro.  So to even be here I feel fortunate.  And to have Jim on the bag, it's just awesome.Q. I guess they say it was written.EDDIE KIRBY: It was.  And I guess somebody out there is looking out for me.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT