SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 21, 2015
Ed Kirby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Help me out with the connection on Jim and your bag and how did that work, first of all?  ED KIRBY: Started just about two years ago when I won the Senior Section Championship in New England.  And when I won that, Jim made a kind of a challenge to me and said, if you make it to the Senior PGA, I'll caddie for you. So I thought about it and I say, well, I've never tried to try to qualify for it, but I said, you know what, you're on. And we went to the National Senior Club Pro and he showed up, put a lot of pressure on me and fortunately I went out and played well and made it.  So, he caddied for me last year and we had a great time.  And, unfortunately, I bogeyed the last hole last year to miss by one. And I felt so bad.  I made a challenge to Jim, I said, if I make it back, I want you back on the bag.  And he said, are you sure?  And I said, absolutely.  And it's worked out great.  He's been a great, great help.   Q.  Today, in this championship, obviously, it's a tough enough golf course on a good day, but tell me how you handled yourself around there today.  ED KIRBY: I played here in the National Club Pro five years ago and I did not play well then.  So, I kind of came up with the attitude that, you know, I'm just going to try to hit fairways and greens.  And there's going to be bogeys, you're not going to get it up-and-down on a lot of holes.  And Pete Dye will challenge you.  And if you get too aggressive and you miss by a little bit -- the first hole was a great example -- I hit a perfect tee shot, I hit a 110 yard wedge that I thought I hit close, but I missed it on the wrong side of the hole and it caught the edge and rolled all the way down the hole. And Jim and I just sat there and said, you know, what club are we going to hit from here?  Because we had a whole bunch of options.  I took the putter out and whacked it -- I haven't done that in five years -- I whacked it up the hill and got it up-and-down for par.  So every hole you make par you're doing pretty good.   Q.  Did you start on the back?  ED KIRBY: We started on the back.  I hit a pretty good shot on 11, it went in the bunker and made bogey. Really the one on 18 hurt, because, 18, the wind was blowing, it was raining and it was cold and I didn't -- I had to buy a sweater last night in the hotel resort.  I bought UnderArmour thing at the resort last night.  Not really prepared for this kind of weather, anticipating a little bit better than that. But having my wife and daughter here and Jim and Darlene here, and the messages from home, it's awesome.  It's just a great experience to be able to play in a Major Championship like this and hopefully tomorrow we'll get it going.   Q.  A lot of fun, isn't it?  ED KIRBY: You know, being with Jim, it really, the pressure comes off now.  Because I know it's a big deal for him to be out here caddying for a place where he's the past president of the PGA and, you know, I said, I think that's the coolest thing in the world, because we're both golfers and really it's the game of golf and, fortunately, you know, I can play at a level at times to be able to share it with him it's awesome.  Absolutely awesome.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT