TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2019
Bronson Burgoon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great stuff today.  How pleased are you?  Because 64 bogey-free, pretty special.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, no, it was good.  Just saying it was been kind of a rough year for me.  I struggled.  I guess struggled would be an understatement.  Last two weeks I got some good work in and really pleased with how I played out there today.   
 Q.  The putter was red hot.  Only 10 of 18 greens hit, but 158 feet of putts in.  The putter was really good.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, putter was really good.  My ball striking felt pretty good.  I drove it pretty well and I just missed clubs like four times either coming up a little short or a little long.  But I hit it solid, so that's all you can ask for.   
 Q.  Are you surprised 64 is the lowest score?  As soft as it is, is there a 61, 62 out there?  
BRONSON BURGOON: There are some tough pins.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
BRONSON BURGOON: So, yeah, I guess these guys are really good, so who knows?  I played pretty well.  Like I said, some of the easier holes have tougher pins so it's a little bit tougher to get to.   
We'll see.   
 Q.  I know you played pretty good last summer when it got hot.  It's not hot here, but we're getting late into the summer.  Is this maybe the time when your game rolls around?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Well, I hate to think that, but I did start playing good just after this week last year.  You know, I'm going to take it day by day, but, yeah, game is starting to round into form a little bit.   
 Q.  Thoughts on your round today; 64 has obviously got you in pretty good shape.  You haven't had a lot of success on this course.  What turned around for you?  
BRONSON BURGOON: No, I have not been able to crack the code here at all.  Some the tee balls that I really struggled with in the past, kind of got over that and I hit some really good shots.   
And then obviously making some putts is really nice.   
 Q.  You said you'd taken a couple weeks off to do some pretty good work, and sounds like it's paying off.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, I needed it.  Right after Memorial I was in a pretty dark place when it came to my golf game.  I took two weeks off and regrouped and refocused and got a lot of really good work in.   
 Q.  What did you do in particular?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Just kind of went back to the basics.  I got pretty tangled up in a lot of different thoughts and trying new things almost every week.  I was searching every week, every shot, looking for something, and just playing miserable golf.   
 Q.  Did you work with anybody in particular?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Just my coach back home, Pablo Del Olmo.  Been my coach now for three years, so, yeah.   
 Q.  So you started the season late last year, this season, in Asia, and had a really good finish there and then it kind of trailed off.  What was the situation?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, well, I finished top 10 in like six events.  I don't know.  I had a couple second place finishes and starting to feel good, but it's like, I got to take my game to the next level.  I started just trying new things instead of just keeping down the same path I was going down, and ended me up in not a good spot.   
 Q.  So it's a lesson learned you feel like?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah.  I went right back to what I was doing in Malaysia.  Going into that week I had two weeks off after Malaysia and for whatever reason I decided that I thought I should start working on new stuff.   
So I just went back to the basics and just focused on that every day.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BRONSON BURGOON: I drove it pretty good and obviously I was putting well.  My irons I hit solid but I didn't really hit anything too close.   
But the greens are so good.  You get them online, have a good chance of going in.   
 Q.  And your feeling finishing as strong as you did?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Always good.  Always good to end with a birdie, so pretty pleased with that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT