JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2018
Bronson Burgoon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bronson, I know the complexity of the day changed a little bit when he birdies 1, 2 and 3 like that.  I thought the way you came back on the back nine, the finish to get up and down at 17 and then again at 19, I know it means a lot to you, and you could see the emotions when you got it in.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, I'm running on fumes.  I was hoping my adrenaline kind of kicked it; really didn't.  Like you said, he birdied the first three.  I tried to get pumped up but I was dragging all day.   
I hit the ball terrible.  I kept my emotions in check and got it in, so I was proud of myself.   
 Q.  I saw the emotion with you and Grant there.  From a FedExCup standpoint this really takes care of a lot of business for you with a big week coming up.  
BRONSON BURGOON: A lot, a lot.  Yeah, no, I mean, you don't want to think about it, but you want a job next year.   
I've been playing really well and I knew I had a few tournaments left, but I didn't want to have to worry about it.  That up and down on 17 was huge for me, and then on 18 as well.   
I'm looking forward to next week.  I'm going to get some good rest.  I'm playing really good.  I just need to get my feet under me a little bit.   
 Q.  What can you say about the week?  You played well, but Michael was just that much better.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yes.  I mean, tough to compete against that.  He birdied the first three holes right out of the gate.  I was pretty flat all day, but really proud I got it in the hole.   
 Q.  You've got to feel really confident, though, that you're playing good golf going into next week.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, I'm playing really good.  I'm excited for next week.  I need to get some rest and get my feet under me a little bit, but I'm really excited about next week.   
 Q.  Talk about playing with Kim today.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, I've known Mike for quite sometime now and we have a good relationship.  It was a lot of fun out there.  It was pretty light.   
Him winning his first event, I just couldn't be happier for him.  He deserves it.  He played unbelievable.   
 Q.  Talk about that moment on the 18th hole.  Off the tee you two kind of looked at each other.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Oh, yeah.  No, no, he started fist bumping because he made the fairway, and I just told him, Knock it off.  You're going to win by ten, so stop that.   
 Q.  Yeah, a record-breaking performance; won by eight shots.  He got the course record for 27-under as well.  Talk about what he was doing today and how you guys kind of fed off each other?  
BRONSON BURGOON: I didn't really do much feeding.  He just was rolling them in from everywhere and he hit a couple really good iron shots.   
He did what he had to do and he played good and it was fun to watch.   
 Q.  What can you do as a competitor when someone is playing like that and has such a big lead?  You just focus on your game?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah.  You know, going into the back nine, unless he had an absolute torrential meltdown, which he wasn't going to, we were all playing for second.   
I was playing terrible, so I just trying to get the ball in the hole.   
 Q.  What is it about maybe this last month that you can carryover into next week?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, I put myself now -- that's three straight weeks being in the top 10 going into Sunday in contention.  For someone who had never been there before, it feels good.  It's been tiring, so that's why I'm pooped.   
 Q.  Going to sleep on the jet tonight?  
BRONSON BURGOON: I'm going to have a glass of red wine and I'm going to pass out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT