JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2018
Bronson Burgoon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Long day.  Talk about that.  How long of a day was it for you, and how were you able to still play so well?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, I don't know how I finished the way I did.  I warmed up four times today.  It was a grind out there.   
But glad to be done and ready to get some sleep.   
 Q.  What time did you get to the course this morning?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Like 6:30 I think it was.  Yeah, so I was up at 5:00, Starbucks 5:15, and off we went.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) ...and then you have to wait several hours and you had to wait again.  What was the whole day like for you?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah.  I mean, we're used to it.  We see stuff like this.  But it's been tough.  I'm pretty tired.   
Yeah, I'm really looking forward to tonight's sleep.   
 Q.  Mentally or physically?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Both.  Yeah, it was a long, long day.  Yeah.   
 Q.  There is such a rhythm in this game.  When you're in this stop and start, how do you keep your rhythm?  
BRONSON BURGOON: I mean, we been doing this for so long.  Yeah, it'll take you out of your rhythm, but a couple swings in and you're right back in the flow.   
Sometimes it's a good thing you get pulled off if you're going the wrong way.  You can kind of change course direction, so...   
 Q.  How many holes did you have left?  
BRONSON BURGOON: The last time out?   
 Q.  No.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Oh, this morning?  Three.  Came out and played three, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you wonder, because there was so much rain, how the course was going to play?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, I had no idea, to be honest with you.  I didn't know if the drives were going to be picking up mud, because obviously we played it down in the second round so we weren't going to be able to touch it.   
Luckily I missed the fairway on 8 and didn't have to worry about it; then nine I hit it on a downslope, so it was perfect.   
 Q.  Had you tee'd off on 15 when the second horn sounded today?  
BRONSON BURGOON: No, no.  I was just about to pull the trigger, and then as I was about to take it back they blew the horn.   
 Q.  Nice finish there.  What does that mean to you?  You five back.  You're still right there.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, no, it's good.  Obviously Michael is playing really well; playing pretty good myself.   
So get some rest and looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Couple drives after the second restart missed the fairway.  Was that just...  
BRONSON BURGOON: Tired.   
 Q.  Tired?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah.  I hit it right when I'm tired.  I started hitting it right.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Good recoveries on both holes.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, no, I got a really good break on 17.  I didn't know where the ball ended up and I was able to advance it up by the green and get up and down.   
Then the last hole I missed the fairway by, you know, a foot, and had a decent enough lie to wedge it up there.   
 Q.  There are a lot of guys at the top of that board that haven't won before.  What's that going to be like tomorrow?  
BRONSON BURGOON: I mean, a lot of these guys have won at different levels.  The PGA TOUR obviously is a different deal, but it is what it is.  Everyone is going to go out there and try their best.   
Obviously there will be nerves, but we face nerves every week.  Obviously a little bit different, but it's still just play as good as we can.   
 Q.  You hear people flipping when you say he's going to be able to sleep in tomorrow.  Are you somebody who is going to be able to sleep in with this possibility?  
BRONSON BURGOON: No.  I just hope I go to bed in the next 30 minutes.  I usually get up about 5:30 every morning, so as long as I go to bed pretty early, I'll be doing all right.   
 Q.  What's the game plan for Sunday?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Same thing it's been for the last three days:  make as many birdies and eagles as I can.   
 Q.  You played the par-5s really, really well this week.  
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah.   
 Q.  What is it about those par-5s that's working for you right now?  
BRONSON BURGOON: Well, usually I drive it fairly long and most of the time pretty straight, so I'm able to give myself some decent looks.   
Hit a couple really good shots during my second round on the front nine and eagled both of the par-5s with 5-iron actually, both of them.   
So hopefully do that once or twice tomorrow, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT