AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 11, 2016
Bronson Burgoon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell me about yourself, first of all.  This is your first PGA TOUR event, correct?
BRONSON BURGOON: First year on TOUR, yes.
Q. First year on the TOUR.
BRONSON BURGOON: Yes.
Q. How long have you been playing golf?
BRONSON BURGOON: As long as I can remember.  I played a lot of baseball growing up, but then got into golf, my brother and I, and just kind of ran with it from there.
Q. I can see why, you're pretty good at it?
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, some days.  Not all the time.
Q. Today's been a good day though?
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, today's been good.  It's been trending in the right direction for the last month or so.  So, it's all part of the process, but it's feeling better.
Q. You probably haven't looked on Twitter, but people are talking about you.  You're new, people didn't maybe put you on their fantasy golf team, and now they're thinking, well, I should have.
BRONSON BURGOON: I have a few buddies that have me on their fantasy golf team.  They have been getting on me every week because I haven't been doing nothing.  So hopefully they picked me again.
Q. But today?
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, I played well today.  I played really well.  I got off to a good start and just kept rolling.  I wouldn't say I slowed down on the back, but missed a couple putts, but that's golf.  The greens got poa annua, so.
Q. Going forward, what are you worried about course-wise?  Because these are new to you, correct?
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, I got three good practice rounds in with my good friend, Martin Piller, who has played out here before, kind of walked me around.
Not really worried about anything.  I'm excited.  I love it out here.  It's hard not to have a smile only your face while you're out there with these views.  I feel really lucky to be out here.
Q. Take me through that -- your opening nine.  That's amazing what you did there.
BRONSON BURGOON: Yeah, I, man, I hit it good, and I putted it well.  Really, I didn't -- I made one, my eagle putt was about 30 feet.  But beside that, it was 10 to 15 feet or closer and that was with making par from just off the green on my first hole.  So, it was really good.
Q. What were you thinking as you turned there?
BRONSON BURGOON: Just keep going, really.  I gave myself opportunities on the back nine, I just didn't make anything.  I've been starting to play better.  I've been playing really well in my practice rounds.  And I switched coaches and made some swing changes and the practice rounds have been great.  But then I haven't been able to translate that over to tournament play.  So this is the first day that it's all kind of come together in a golf tournament.  So that is exciting in itself, whether I played good or bad, I was hitting shots that I wanted to hit, when I needed to hit.
Q. Who are you working with and what are you working on?
BRONSON BURGOON: I'm working with a guy named Pablo Del Olmo.  He is from Monterrey, Mexico, lives in the Woodlands now.  And I've been with the same coach for 18 years, who I think is the best coach in the world, Kevin Kirk, I love him to death.  And just was time for a little bit of a change and they work together, actually.  So, I started working with Pablo, and we started working on a little bit more, I would say, getting me a little bit more athletic.  That would be the best way to describe it.
Like I said, practice rounds have been fantastic in Hawaii and everything, but it's been hard for me to translate that on to the golf course.  And this is -- and I know it's coming, but this is the first day that I really have been able to execute the shots on a consistent basis.
Q. So you got to be looking forward to tomorrow at Pebble then?
BRONSON BURGOON: I'm looking forward to the rest of the year, to be honest.  I feel really good, I'm excited.  Golf's a finicky game, so you never know, but I definitely feel like I'm trending the right way, finally.  And that in itself is exciting, whether I -- yeah, I played great today, but you're not going to play great every day, but I feel like I'm finally trending in the right direction, which is fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT