NHL DRAFT
June 27, 2014
Leon Draisaitl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Did you know it was going to happen there when you were sitting on the board at 3 and they were up?
LEON DRAISAITL:   No, I didn't know it for sure, but I mean, I think I knew they were interested.   Yeah, I'm kind of speechless right now.   This is just incredible. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
LEON DRAISAITL:   Everything.   They've had so many great players on their team, Wayne Gretzky, Mark Messier,
MacTavish, all those guys are stars in the league, and wearing the same jersey as they do is unbelievable.

Q.   I'm assuming playing out west you watched on TV.   What do you think?
LEON DRAISAITL:   I think the same as everyone else.   They have a really talented young group there, and I think they really want to be good.   Like I said, their players are young, but they're almost already stars in the league.   To join them is great. 

Q.   Now that you know where you're going, do you think you can play in Edmonton next year? 
LEON DRAISAITL:   You know, I think I have to work on some stuff, but that's what I'm going to do this summer, and I think I'm ready next year, yeah.

Q.   From a global standpoint for you to go in, how big is this for European hockey or certainly back home in Germany do you think this has been a real big opportunity today?
LEON DRAISAITL:   Yeah, for sure.   I think, like I said before, I want to make as many kids play hockey as possible in Germany.   I mean, I want to be an ambassador, and I want to make them play hockey and get the passion for the sport.   I think this might be pretty good for Germany. 

Q.   Living and playing in Saskatchewan for a while, do you think going to Edmonton is a comfortable transition for you?
LEON DRAISAITL:   Yeah, I think it's going to help me a lot.   I lived in West Canada the last two years, and I had a really good life there.   I think it's going to help me a little bit for sure. 

Q.   When you were playing the Oil Kings in the WHL Playoffs, did you ever think this might be my new home building? 
LEON DRAISAITL:   You know, I don't think you can think of that during game time or anything, but you know, I think I knew that they might be interested and this might possibly be my new home.   It's awesome to be here right now and wear that jersey.

Q.   It's a team that's 28th this year overall, a lot of work to do in the organization.   What do you think about that? 
LEON DRAISAITL:   You know, I think I'm going to have to do my job and earn my spot if I want to play in that league and on that team.   I think they're moving forward for sure.   I mean, they've made some good trades, Perron and I think the guys are getting older and more mature, and this is just awesome right now.

Q.   What did your dad say to you?
LEON DRAISAITL:   Well, I can't remember to be honest.   I think I was somewhere else.   My head wasn't really into his talking. 

Q.   What did Eberle say when you took his number? 
LEON DRAISAITL:   He probably won't be too happy.   Yeah, like I said, he probably wouldn't like that too much. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
LEON DRAISAITL:   No, 29. 

Q.   Is it for your dad?
LEON DRAISAITL:   No, actually not.   I just like the number.   My dad used to have a player on his team when he coached in German who was a player I loved watching.   He was really good, and I just think it looks good.

Q.   Are you familiar with Taylor Hall and his style of play at all, and if you are, do you think you guys could gel together?   He's got all that speed on the wing. 
LEON DRAISAITL:   Yeah, for sure.   He's probably the fastest skater in the league, and he's an exciting player to watch.   He's a star in the league, so I think it might be a good fit, but you never know.   It's up to the coaches to put a line together, and I can only do my job. 

Q.   What did the coach say to you? 
LEON DRAISAITL:   He's not going to give me the hat for the pictures because then my parents will be mad because of my hair. 

Q.   You've skated with Mark Messier a little bit, right?
LEON DRAISAITL:   Yeah.

Q.   How much more special does it make this knowing that he played with Edmonton?
LEON DRAISAITL:   Yeah, like I said before, this is awesome wearing the same jersey as these guys like Gretzky and Messier and all the stars they've had.   Like, like you said, he used to skate with my dad a little bit in the summer, and this is amazing to wear the same jersey he does.

Q.   The coach and the GM have constantly said they're looking for drivers to carry the pace of play.   Do you feel like that describes you?
LEON DRAISAITL:   Yeah, I think I'm a guy who wants to go forward for sure.   I want to‑‑ probably I know people often say that I slow the game down, but I think that's my game, and I know when to slow down and when to speed up.   I think I can do both. 

Q.   How many family members do you have here?
LEON DRAISAITL:   It's a long flight, so my grandparents, they couldn't come, obviously.   But they'll be watching at home for sure, and they're going to be really proud.   And I have around eight guys with me. 

Q.   Talk about what the Prince Albert Raiders meant to you?
LEON DRAISAITL:   You know, they've been huge for me.   They gave me the opportunity to play in the Western Hockey League.   Huge thanks to Bruno Campese and all the other guys on the Raiders.   They've made life easy for me, and it's a huge help. 

Q.   When you were in Europe, could you have gone to play in Sweden or Switzerland or‑‑ you probably could have done that and played a different brand of hockey, right?
LEON DRAISAITL:   Yeah, like I said before, I did have a couple offers from Sweden, Finland, but like I said before, I think for me personally, the best thing to do was play in Canada, and my goal is to play in the NHL one day, and I think with 72 games in the WHL, that's a pretty good start.

Q.   Do you like the Kings of Leon?
LEON DRAISAITL:   I do know them.   I don't listen to their music too much.   I guess they're a great band. 

Q.   What was it like playing for Germany?
LEON DRAISAITL:   You know, it was a huge help, playing the first time against men for me was awesome.   It was a huge help, and it kind of showed me what the pace is like and what the practice is like.   You know, it was really important for me for sure. 

Q.   What was No.29 on your father's team?
LEON DRAISAITL:   Ben Thompson. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT