THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 28, 2007
Zane Scotland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Zane, thanks for joining us.  Started off with those first five holes.  That was a great start.  Talk us through those holes and what were you thinking. 
 ZANE SCOTLAND:  I think that's one of the best starts I've ever had.  Yeah, got off to a really good start, hit two good shots to the first, 15 feet and holed the putt. 
 Walked to the second, and then he hit it into about six feet at the second, so I thought, keep it going, so I knocked it inside him to wind him up a little bit.  We both made birdie there. 
 And then the par 5, hit a really good pitch shot straight in the middle off of a bit of confidence having birdied the first two.  Then hit a 3-iron from about 245 that flew back to the pin and flew over the back of the green, and I was pretty chuffed at that. 
 Then proceeded to chip it in with 3-wood, which is pretty nice because I just hit five or six shots on the back end of the practise range with a 3-wood, and then when I got there it was right there, so that was perfect. 
 The next hole, good tee shot, 3-wood off the tee, pin was tucked in the right and after how I started I had nothing but an eye for the pin, and I hit a shot right down there to about ten feet right of the pin, holed that putt. 
 Walked to the next, and same thing, nothing about seeing where the pin was and hit it to about three feet.  By this time I was sort of riding that wave and hit a good tee shot off the next, and it all came crashing down with a three-putt. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  What were you thinking after those first five holes? 
 ZANE SCOTLAND:  I wasn't thinking a lot, to be honest.  Walking down the sixth fairway, I was thinking to myself, how many under am I?  I was like, don't be like that, don't would you I, just keep playing.  Yeah, all I was thinking was just keep hitting good shots, just where is the pin and try and hit your ball there. 

 Q.  Given that neither you nor Lee have been in that position of last group out before, there's supposed to be sort of nerves and falling apart.  Were there any nerves at all overnight? 
 ZANE SCOTLAND:  Not really, to be honest.  I felt very nervous in France when I was doing quite well overnight, and this time, you know, not really, actually.  I slept pretty well last night, just sort of the figured tomorrow is another day, just go out and play how you're playing and just sort of see what happens, didn't have too many expectations. 
 And then obviously very quickly made birdie at the first and settled into the round.  I think it also helped playing with Lee because he's a good mate of mine and we play a fair bit of golf together, so we just sort of bounced off each other a little bit. 

 Q.  You've got Romero in front of you.  He's just been in and said he's not going to hold back tomorrow.  How about you? 
 ZANE SCOTLAND:  Yeah, sure.  Try and pick up where I left off today.  The golf course is scorable in terms of it's quite soft so you can fire at the pins, and I think if you want to win a golf tournament, you can't be firing at the middle of the greens, you've got to try to make as many birdies as possible and hopefully make more birdies than your opponent. 

 Q.  How difficult do you think it'll be to forget about all that's possibly riding on tomorrow?  You could win an awful lot of money, get a two-year exemption, all things like that.  How do you avoid thinking about that? 
 ZANE SCOTLAND:  I think the thing really is you can't avoid it.  It's just one of those things where you're going to be thinking about it, but the best thing to do is focus on each shot.  If I try to not think about it, I'll forget about what I'm doing.  You've just got to sort of face up to it and be, like, well, this is where I want to be and do the best you can in each and every shot, and see where it takes me. 

 Q.  Can you just sum up what it would mean if you did win?  Can you sum up what it would mean for you to do that tomorrow? 
 ZANE SCOTLAND:  It would mean -- it's one of those situations where I've always dreamt about having a chance to play in the last group on the European Tour or PGA TOUR or wherever, and tomorrow is just going to be one of those times.  I'm actually sort of living up to what I thought I wanted to do.  You know, it would mean a lot, but hopefully it is not just the only chance I'm ever going to get.  Hopefully it's one of many. 

 Q.  How did you make the eagle on 15? 
 ZANE SCOTLAND:  Drove it down the middle, 3-iron to short and pitched in from about 35 yards. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT