THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 26, 2007
Zane Scotland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ZANE SCOTLAND: Played nicely on the Challenge Tour last week in Austria, finished second, and that came after a good week in France.   
  
  Q.  Shame not to be at the Open?   
 ZANE SCOTLAND: I was pretty gutted watching it and thinking that's where I want to be but you have to make the best of what you have got and one day you will be there.   
  
  Q.  Plan this season to get the full card?   
 ZANE SCOTLAND: My initial goal was the get the card, not sure which way but I will take whatever.   
  
  Q.  You are here on invites?   
 ZANE SCOTLAND: I am. I had no expectation going to France and all of a sudden, after saying I would commit to Challenge Tour at the start of the year, there was the chance to get invites and everything moved around. It is a nice bonus.   
  
  Q.  Second last week - where does that take you in the Rankings?   
 ZANE SCOTLAND: About 37th. I didn't play the first half of the season because I had a bad neck. I have only played seven or eight events but have played well in those.   
  
  Q.  Have you fully recovered from the car crash?   
 ZANE SCOTLAND: I still have to have treatment at least once every three or four weeks. If I didn't I would struggle. A couple of vertebrae in my neck were knocked out of place in th crash so I have to check them regularly.   
  
  Q.  When was the crash?   
 ZANE SCOTLAND: In 2003, just after I turned professional. It is only this last year, year and a half I have been able to play and practice as much as I want to. Before that I was compromising a lot with my practice. You go to a tournament and think it will be fine but it is not as you are competing against really good players who have also been practising a lot so you are up against it.   
  
  Q.  How is the standard between the two tours?   
 ZANE SCOTLAND: It is hard to tell as the courses here are a lot tougher. In general the scoring on the Challenge Tour is lower as there is not as much rough but it is very apparent who the good players are but there are also very good players on the Challenge Tour. If you play well it doesn't matter where you play.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT