AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2019
Clara Tauson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. TAUSON/L. Fernandez
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Big court, big room.  How do you feel?
CLARA TAUSON: I feel very good, very happy with my performance this week and last week.  So very happy.
Q. We spoke at the start of the week.  After your first round, you were looking for a big improvement.
CLARA TAUSON: Yes, I wasn't expecting actually to win here after the fourth round.  Yeah, I kept working hard and had some tough matches in the beginning.  I got through it, so I'm very happy about that.
Q. What was the key to victory today?  You played her last week, as well.
CLARA TAUSON: Yeah, I feel like it was a big court.  We haven't played on it either of us.  We just warmed up on Rod Laver.  So I think both of us was nervous.
She was playing really good in the beginning.  I feel like I won because I kept fighting and try to get my emotions, keep my emotions.
Q. On match point, your hands went to the head.  Was that your dad you were looking to?
CLARA TAUSON: Yeah, my dad.  We have some from Denmark in there.  We had one of my dad's best friends, who is helping me a lot.  So, yeah, those were the ones.
Q. What were the first things going through your head?
CLARA TAUSON: I was just happy, thinking I can't believe I won.  But I was just happy.  I was thinking about my mom at home and stuff like that.
Q. Are they up just now?
CLARA TAUSON: Yeah, my mom, she hasn't slept in a week, almost two weeks (smiling).
Q. Your sisters, too?
CLARA TAUSON: Yeah, my little sister, she's still up actually.
Q. Can you talk a bit more about you.  You are training with your father?
CLARA TAUSON: Yes.
Q. Where?
CLARA TAUSON: He's my traveling coach and he's my coach at home.  But I also have my coaches at home.  I have a pretty big team at home with physics coaches, two or three tennis coaches, yeah.
Q. When you say at home, where is it exactly?
CLARA TAUSON: I train in Copenhagen, capital of Denmark.
Q. I heard your uncle was a former professional tennis player.  Do you train as well with him sometimes?
CLARA TAUSON: Yeah, sometimes.  I used to be in the same club as him.  I'm not any more.  But I know he's very proud of me at home.  I got a big message yesterday about how my match was.  He's been sitting up all night, too.  So, yeah, he's a big support.
Q. I think you didn't lose a single match in juniors since US Open.  Do you feel unbeatable?
CLARA TAUSON: Yeah, I mean, the start of the year has been good for me, of course.  Yeah, I'm not thinking about too much if I never lose a match in juniors any more because I will.  I'm very happy about the last 12 matches.
Q. Caroline Wozniacki, do you have any connection with her?
CLARA TAUSON: Yeah, of course.  We say hi whenever we see each other.  I've practiced with her, too.  Yeah, of course, she's a big inspiration for everyone in Denmark playing tennis and other sports.  Yeah, she's very nice.
Q. Does this change your plans for the rest of the year now?  Do you look towards maybe the ITF World Tour?
CLARA TAUSON: No.  I knew that after going here I would play some more pro tournaments.  But I don't think it's going to change anything about my plans.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT