NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 12, 2017
Justin Schultz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did you like so much about what you guys did in Game 7, and how do you go about getting that to transfer to Game 1 against Ottawa?  
JUSTIN SCHULTZ: I don't know.  We just went in, played our game and believed in each other that we can get the job done on the road.  Obviously had a huge effort from Flower in that.   
What was the second part to that?   
 Q.  Just how do you get that to transfer into your game against Ottawa?  
JUSTIN SCHULTZ: It's a completely different series.  We've got to prepare for Ottawa now.  Still worried about our game, but just take it one game at a time and go from there.   
 Q.  This is going to sound crazy, but given the fact that Washington was No. 1 in the league all year and a big rival of this team, do you have to try to make sure you get up for this?  It's the third round of the playoffs.  It's crazy to say this, but make sure you guys are up for the next game?  
JUSTIN SCHULTZ: These games, Conference Final, Stanley Cup Finals, you have no problem getting up for those.  Obviously, the stakes are high, and we know what it feels like to get the job done and win it all, so we want to do it again.   
 Q.  What kind of challenge are you expecting from Ottawa?  
JUSTIN SCHULTZ: They're a very good team.  They're obviously hot right now.  They travel the neutral zone pretty good.  We can't get frustrated.  We've got to just keep playing our game and find ways to beat them.   
 Q.  How do you avoid that, not get sucked into that?  
JUSTIN SCHULTZ: I don't know.  It's hard.  Just try to play our game, try to play fast, see how it goes and make adjustments.  Like I said, we just want to keep playing fast and playing the speed.   
 Q.  From a defenseman's perspective, what kind of challenge does Erik Karlsson present to you guys, and how do you go about defending him?  
JUSTIN SCHULTZ: He's always up in the play and can skate himself out of trouble and the team out of trouble.  He creates that odd-man attack that's difficult to defend, so all five of us that are on the ice have to be aware and do a good job.   
 Q.  How much appreciation do you have for his game when you play against him?  
JUSTIN SCHULTZ: He's unreal to watch, the way he skates and the vision he has.  It's really impressive.  Obviously, hopefully, try to take that away from him this series, but he's a very good player.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT