BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 22, 2005
Len Mattiace
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Len Mattiace joining us, the horn sounded and you're on the 18th green, but did you get nine holes in.  What were course conditions like out there?

LEN MATTIACE:  It was pretty nice, once we got back out there, we had a lot of fog during the day and the course is just playing, no tricks to it, right in front of you.  Everything is kind of soft.  The greens are receptive, so the greens are average pace and no wind.

So it's probably playing it's easy as Torrey Pines can play.
Q.  It's like a double-edged sword, there's no wind but that mens when the fog comes in it doesn't go anywhere?

LEN MATTIACE:  The fog has been crazy.  We've had two days of the fog.  What can you do, though, when it comes in off the ocean.  But it is playing -- the course is playing kind of basic right now.  When the wind kicks up around here, it's going to play a lot tougher, but luckily we haven't seen that yet.
Q.  Last thing, Len, of course, with your experience out here, this is just one of the -- you know, it goes with the territory, you get delays, whether it be rain or fog, and, you know, you just have to go with the flow.

LEN MATTIACE:  Yeah, I mean, fog is just kind of like lightning in the sense that you we can't play because you can't see; and with lightning, of course, you can't be on the course.  You've just got to get warmed up when you're ready to go, that's kind of the simple thing, but we are all used to it.

TIGER WOODS:  Well, called it, get to 14 somehow, just barely made it, just teed off and blew the horn.  We got ours in and a long day.
Q.  What's it like to play one hole at 10:00 AM and then play four holes at 4:00 PM?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, you had to get at the golf course at 7 o'clock or something like that.  So it's been a long day and I can't wait to go and grab some dinner and repeat the process tomorrow. (Laughing.)
Q.  Does it feel good to get to where you are?
TIGER WOODS:  Without a doubt, three back and all of a sudden, tied.  So it was huge to sneak one in there on 11.  That was kind of -- that thing was zipping.  It had to crash at the hole.
Q.  How do you deal with the on-again, off-again?
TIGER WOODS:  Just the way it is.  At least it's not that cold.  We've been here when it's been raining sideways and you have to it do this and that's no fun.  At least it's not too bad it's nice and warm.
Q.  Talk about how important pace is on a day like today, particularly where you're going after the lead?
TIGER WOODS:  I think it's just part of the game.  You have to be patient and stay calm and understand that everyone has to deal with it.  We're all out here at the same time.

So, you know, who knows, once that shot comes tomorrow -- you never know.  But, hey, you've just got to hang in there and keep grinding.
Q.  Why did you decide to play out -- inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:  I was in the rhythm and I played well so far, and had not really hit that bad of a golf shot yet.  So just had to stay in rhythm and keep playing.
Q.  How are you feeling physically with all of the late nights and cold weather?
TIGER WOODS:  The good thing is that I'm staying right here and go home and kick my feet up and take a nap like I did this afternoon.  So I feel a lot better.
Q.  Is it an advantage, one more hole in the books?
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, I think so.  Any time you have one less hole you have to worry about; and not exactly a short hole starting out tomorrow morning.  So get nice and loose and let it go on 15.
Q.  Did you get extra sleep during the break?
TIGER WOODS:  I did.  I went to sleep.  I still don't probably feel right, so just try and get whatever rest I possibly can.  Just trying to sleep as much as I can.  I feel like an old fogey.  When you're not feeling well you just have to grab as much sleep as you possibly can to feel better.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT