THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 1998
Len Mattiace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LEN MATTIACE:  Oh, well, I don't think anything big happened out there.  (laughter)  Well, obviously, started on 17, I was -- I felt people asked me, you know:  What about the shot; what happened.  And, I thought the club was a 9-iron and I was trying to aim it a little left of the pin right on the corner of the tier and I felt like if I hit it there, great; if maybe the wind takes it a little left, it is somewhere pin-high left.  And, I just hit a really solid shot - hit it larger than I wanted.  The adrenaline was pumping, and through everything, it was a big shock to me because I thought I hit it the way I needed to hit it. 
 

Q. What did you have to the pin?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  I had 140, I think the yardage was, 140 even.  I knew most of the day that that hole was playing a little bit down right-to-left - just the way the wind was blowing most of the day.  Everybody thinks how is -- How is  17 going to play.  When we got out on the tee, at that point it was a little cross, right-to-left.  So, taking that into account and knowing that, well, the main breeze is a little right -- a little down, 140, I was trying to land something about 130 and that is kind of a regular 9-iron. 
 

Q. What did you give yourself on the drop?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  101 yards, which is a full L-wedge for me, full sand wedge.  And, I hit it good.  But, again, I needed -- on that one I needed to be a little bit left of the hole to take kind of the slope to feed it into the hole.  It was close.  I think it was close to being up around the hole. 
 

Q. Not much sand in there or did you just hit a bad shot?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  I just hit a bad shot.  It is a regular bunker and I don't think I was ready to hit it.  My mind was -- I think was somewhere else, and that was disappointing because I just wasn't set trying to hit the bunker shot.  Probably didn't commit enough to what I needed to do out of it. 
 

Q. You backed off three times on the tee ball.  What was going through your mind there?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  On the tee ball? 
  

Q. Yes.
 
LEN MATTIACE:  Well, I remember backing off once.  But, when -- I remember backing off one specifically and I wasn't set with my alignment.  I was kind of aiming too much at the pin and didn't like it and backed off.  That is something that, you know, I don't think much of.  But, when I got over the shot I felt really good.  I was real confident that I can hit it a little left of the hole. 
 

Q. Is it possible in this kind of a bizarre sense that you made actually too good a swing with the 9-iron?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  Oh, yeah.  I am not one to hit 9-irons 160 yards.  Some people talk about controlling the distances with the short irons and I do a really good job with it.  And, that is why I didn't think to even hit the wedge.  But, there is a point where you swing too hard at a shot and it is not going to be good and I did it there. 
 

Q. Were you aware of where Justin stood, looking at any boards at all?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  I wasn't.  I birdied 16 to go to 10-under and I thought, you know, I am right there.  I thought maybe somebody was 10 and a 9, but I knew they had to play 16, so they might go to 11 or 10, something like that.  So I knew I was right there, but I didn't look at the board until -- well, actually on No. 12 and 13 I looked at a scoreboard and then I knew basically  coming in that -- the holes kind of tell you how to play the shots.  14, no one goes at that pin, and 15 you have got to go a little left and 16 -- you know, you play -- it is just -- so I didn't feel like I needed to look at the board and then overthink and overreact to how someone was doing a hole or two behind me; when, who knows what they were going to do on 16, 17, 18.  I had a game plan, I thought I'd stick with it. 
 

Q. You seem very calm right now.  Can you run us through your emotions as 17 was playing itself out?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  When I hit it, I felt good on the tee and yesterday I felt good on the tee as well.  When I hit it in the water, my heart came out of my body two or three times because it was disappointing.  When you hit a good shot and you get penalized, you get a little shock that:  Oh, my God, because you are thinking it is going to be good and now it is really bad.  So that was a shock and then I have never hit --  I don't think I have ever hit it in the water there in tournament-play, so, dropping it was new to me and I just had to take a minute or so and kind of regain my composure because everything was going well.  I mean, I played the round that I wanted to play today.  I was 6-under, right, through 16 holes?  
 
LEN MATTIACE:  Yeah.  6-under through 16 holes.  And I played the round I wanted to play and thought:  Maybe I hit it up there in 17, maybe make a 2 or 3 or something, and 6-under, I was standing on the 18th tee.  That is the round I wanted. 
 

Q. When did you start feeling the adrenaline?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  After I hit the shot, I mean, really.  I hit the shot and about halfway to the hole I went That is too hard, and I didn't feel it before.  If I felt it before, I'd hit a pitching wedge and that is part of the game - decision on the club selection. 
 

Q. At any time were you thinking about all the rewards for, say, a win here today, did that come into play?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  Never.  I never thought about it.  I thought about -- I think about it before the round.  But, I did a good job with that.  I never thought about the win and the money and the five-year exemption or whatever it, is five or seven -- what is it five? I don't even know. 
 
LEN MATTIACE:  No, I never thought about it.  If I thought about it, I don't think I would be at 6-under through 16.  But, I didn't think about it at that point either. 
 

Q. If your heart came out of your body after the tee shot went into the water, what were you feeling when the  second one went in the water?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  When I basically skulled the bunker shot and was disgusted with myself because I went ahead and hit it and I wasn't ready to hit it.  And that is not good. That wasn't a good thing.  Maybe -- I just kind of kept it in me a little bit and I didn't get it out of me before I went in the bunker. 
 

Q. Do you play this course often when you are home and do you even have a ballpark figure of how often you have played it over the years?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  Well, I play it when I am home which isn't much because I play a lot of tournaments.  I will play nine holes every day or every other day, something like that.  But, I will practice on the back practice area which is great that we have here.  I will play nine holes and come out and play -- the course is so different, the course is a little slower and not as firm and fast, so -- but -- so, maybe two rounds a week, three rounds a week total. 
 

Q. Over the years, that is how many times you have played that hole?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  20 possible weeks, three times a week, 60 times a year - however many years you want to count. 
 

Q. Have you ever hit a 9-iron over that green before?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  Yeah.  When it has been downwind, ball hits on the green and bounced over, yeah, I have done  everything there.  Yeah, I mean, in practice I have hit 4-irons trying to hit high cuts playing around and stuff, yeah, in practice and stuff. 
 

Q. Being from here, growing up here, making a charge like this, with your family watching and mom watching today, were you even more emotional?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  You know, yesterday when I walked to 17, I felt a little bit of emotion that, you know, Wow, this is really happening to me.  But, today I didn't think of any of the outside stuff.  I was right in my game, and I was happy with that, that I didn't think of the results or who is thinking about what and stuff.  The crowd was really behind me, that was nice to see.  And it was a great feeling.  I remember when I made the putt on 12, I have never -- I have never heard something so loud for just a birdie.  And that was great.  That is special. 
 
LEN MATTIACE:  Birdie on 1, I hit 8-iron out of the right rough about 30 feet; made it up the tier.  It was a good putt. 
 
LEN MATTIACE:  4, I hit a pitching wedge to two feet, right down the bowl.  And then 5, I bogeyed I hit 4-iron and I hit it fat out of the fairway and came up about 20 yards short of the green, chipped up 30 feet and missed it.  6, I hit a full driver, 3-wood sand wedge to about three feet.  Made that.  Then birdie on 8, hit great 2-iron right up the center of the green, went about eight feet pin-high left, made it.  And 10, I hit an 8-iron on the right fringe, about pin-high, and had a pretty simple chip and chipped it in. 
 
LEN MATTIACE:  I was about six steps off the green, so, about 18 feet. 
 
LEN MATTIACE:  11, I hit a driver, 3-wood in the right green-side bunker, about middle of the green but in the right bunker and blasted out about two feet.  And then 12, I hit a 3-wood, sand wedge to about ten feet past the hole, large roar there.  And then 13, I hit a 6-iron out into the right bunker, blasted that by about eight feet and missed it or about ten feet and missed it.  16, I hit a driver, 4-iron --  (Glen Day enters interview room). 
 
LEN MATTIACE:  -- Just left of the green in the heavy grass, chipped it up about 8, 9 feet and made that.  And, 18, 3-wood, 9-iron about eight feet, you don't see that often, that hole is playing short and fast, firm and fast.  And made that. 
 

Q. Will you play New Orleans?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  Yes.  Committed to play.  Give it another go.  Trying to get in Augusta. 
 

Q. Are you going to relive this all over in your mind?
 
LEN MATTIACE:  Oh, yeah, I will think about it a lot of times.  But, I think what is true is true - I hit a 9-iron.  I thought that was the club and I hit it solid.  I was happy with how I hit it for the most part.  And, it wasn't like it bounced, you know, wasn't really close.  But I was happy with the execution of it. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT