CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 4, 1998
Len Mattiace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  We have Len Mattiace who made a hole-in-one, number 11, nine iron from 163 yards, Mr.`Mattiace from Canon USA, would like to make a presentation?  

MR. MURASE:  Congratulations to hole-in-one, a check from Canon USA to congratulate. 

LEN MATTIACE:  Thank very much.  

MR. MURASE:  In addition, I would like you to take this new camera with you, IX. 

LEN MATTIACE:  Thank you.  Thank you, Mr.`Murase.  Thank you and thanks a lot to Canon.  (Applause) Thanks very much.  It's great to be here, it really is.  


Q.  All right.  If there are any questions for Len, he'll be available now.  Tell us about the shot. 

LEN MATTIACE:  Well, it was another nine iron.  The hole was 163 yards and I felt like it was just a regular nine iron, you know, the hole plays downhill and been playing well up to that point.  So I felt like just go ahead and hit it.  And, you know, the whole day was going well.  I was three under up to that point.  I was playing real solid.  So I had good thoughts going into the hole.  I hit it really solid.  You hate to say I hit it exactly how I thought I should hit it.  It went out the way I wanted it to.  It actually flew right in the hole on a fly, and it made a ballmark on the front lip of the hole, kind of half of the hole, and just stayed in.  Right in on the fly, for a split second we thought it might come out.  Usually balls come in with that, you know, velocity, it might pop out.  But it stayed in.  


Q.  Did you know about this? 

LEN MATTIACE:  Oh, yeah.  Every pro that walks up on that tee, especially on Tuesday and Wednesday, because everybody is looking around and, you know, you're looking -- it's posted up there.  Everybody knows that you make a hole-in-one, you get the check and the Canon camera.  


Q.  How did you did you react? 

LEN MATTIACE:  I actually did a little dance on the tee.  I was excited.  I gave high-fives to everybody, and did a little dance on the tee, and kicked my legs up and it was exciting, you know, because, it's such a beautiful hole looking downhill that you really don't know exactly where the ball is going to come down, anybody knows when you hit downhill, it's a great-looking shot.  It's exciting, you know.  It's amazing that when we play, we try and make shots.  And when the shot finally goes in, it's exciting.  It's something.  


Q.  How many have you made? 

LEN MATTIACE:  This is my fourth.  


Q.  Has any of them done that? 

LEN MATTIACE:  Never in on a fly.  Nope, couple bounced and rolled and one bounced in.  


Q.  Is this your first $25,000 one? 

LEN MATTIACE:  This is the first big one.  


Q.  This is also big. 

LEN MATTIACE:  Super-nice camera.  


Q.  You've had four on TOUR? 

LEN MATTIACE:  I've had two on TOUR.  This is my second on TOUR.  I had one in high school and one in college.  


Q.  Did you ever win anything for the previous ones? 

LEN MATTIACE:  In '93 we played in Milwaukee and the Sharp's company was giving a thousand dollars to hole-in-ones that year on TOUR.  


Q.  It's gone up. 

LEN MATTIACE:  That's right.  I think on every par three this week, if you make a hole-in-one, you either get a camera -- I think one's a watch and 25,000 on a couple of them.  This one happened to be both.  I picked the right hole.  


Q.  You still have a chance to make it tomorrow, too. 

LEN MATTIACE:  Tomorrow as well.  You bet.  On number 16 today when I came to that par three, I felt like there's no way I can miss, no way.  


Q.  But you probably couldn't hit a nine iron there. 

LEN MATTIACE:  I hit a six iron about ten feet.  


Q.  Anymore questions for Len?  There was a ten today out on hole 17. 

LEN MATTIACE:  A score of 10. 


Q.  Yeah.  Could you talk a little about comparing the 17th hole where you had an eight on the 17th hole here? 

LEN MATTIACE:  Thanks for bringing that up.  Everybody knows island hole, it's obvious, under those conditions that I played on Sunday, the players championship, you know, all those things are happening.  I think, geez, it's obvious that that could happen.  There have been eights before on the island green.  I'm sure -- unfortunately, there will be sixes, eights and tens.  That's an obvious hole.  This hole, it doesn't -- it's under-rated.  It's a difficult hole.  The tee shot is difficult.  Most guys try and slide it off the bunker into the fairway, miss a little, right, you're in the water?  The second shot is a little under-rated in the sense that you've got to be precise with the iron shot, but it's not an island green.  There's no water over, but it seems to play a little longer than the yardage.  So I've seen guys in the last couple years hit good shots and come up short in the water.  And they're like -- I just hit a good shot.  It's in the water.  So, you know a ten, obviously, there's some other balls in the water happening there.  It's an under-rated hole.  It's a great stage.  I mean, second-to-last hole here, but it's a tough hole.  


Q.  The leader went from minus 12 to minus six on that hole. 

LEN MATTIACE:  I didn't know that. 


Q.  Can you draw any -- give us any perspective about, you know, keep on plugging on after that or how you've dealt with it? 

LEN MATTIACE:  Well, it's a hard thing -- I mean, making a -- what did he make --  


Q.  Ten? 

LEN MATTIACE:  -- ten?  It's a hard thing.  You know, everybody is going to handle it differently and hopefully whoever that -- I don't know who it was.  But that player hopefully goes to 18, place the hole like it should be played.  I don't know what he'd done on 17.  I'm sure that's devastating, you don't wish that on anybody.  


Q.  Did you make a birdie on the 18th hole? 

LEN MATTIACE:  I did, down at Sawgrass?  


Q.  TPC. 

LEN MATTIACE:  I did.  I felt like that time all that just happened, we had a long walk from 17 to the 18 tee.  100 thoughts went through my head at that point.  I probably just lost the tournament, lost all this money.  I just made an embarrassing scene.  I hit a great shot and got penalized.  I made an eight on the bar -- all those thoughts went through my head.  I felt like when I got on 18, 18 is a tough hole like this hole.  A tough hole.  I felt like I, at least, want to play this hole well, as best as I can.  And then Sunday night I cried all I could, you know.  But it's -- 17 is a scary hole here, you know.  It's not the island green where everybody -- it's obvious, but it's a tough hole. 


Q.  Do you have any family here up this week? 

LEN MATTIACE:  I do.  Well, all my wife's family is from the Providence area.  So her brother, her sister, her parents, nephews, nieces, they're all coming out.  


Q.  You're their favorite in-law right now. 

LEN MATTIACE:  I'm originally from Long Island.  So my cousins came up and I got to see them.  


Q.  Do you plan on talking to your mom about the hole-in-one? 

LEN MATTIACE:  Unfortunately, she passed.  


Q.  I didn't know that. 

LEN MATTIACE:  She passed.  She passed Sunday of Westchester.  You know, she had cancer and stuff and the last couple of weeks of her life was real painful, and she's at piece now.  


Q.  I'm sorry. 

LEN MATTIACE:  It was real bad the last couple of weeks.  I think she's with me and I think she's with our whole family.  


Q.  Were they all there on the 11th hole? 

LEN MATTIACE:  My wife was there and, yeah, some of our family, yeah.  


Q.  Sometimes at the tournaments people take a break. 

LEN MATTIACE:  They stuck it out.  My father-in-law, my wife's parents and sister and brother-in-law, yeah, they were there.  


Q.  You must be their favorite in-law now. 

LEN MATTIACE:  I don't know.  I may have to stay away from them.  


Q.  I guess we know who's picking up the tab for dinner. 

LEN MATTIACE:  That's right, free drinks, free food. 


Q.  Don't say that in the press room. 

LEN MATTIACE:  Lots of pictures.  


Q.  Thank you, Len. 

LEN MATTIACE:  Okay.  Thanks very much, again.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT