OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 16, 2016
Christine Wolf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tell me about your Olympic experience so far. 
CHRISTINE WOLF: It's been awesome so far. I've been here a bit over a week now. Got to watch some other sports. Watched the guys here. Practiced some, yeah. I've just been enjoying myself.

Q. What's the highlight of all the things you've done?
CHRISTINE WOLF: Probably watched Michael Phelps win the 200 butterfly. 

Q. So how do you describe the golf course? Is it particularly difficult? What part of your game needs to be sharp?
CHRISTINE WOLF: It's a little bit different to what we usually play. I think it's a little bit mix between U.S. and Australian golf course. The green shots need to be really good, because there's a lot of elevated greens and undulating greens, so it's probably going to be the part that needs to be best.

Q. How does this rate in terms of your overall career, on the scale of your achievements, how does this fit into that? 
CHRISTINE WOLF: It's pretty high up there, I would say. Yeah, I mean, it's such a great honor to be here and be with all the other athletes. It's something we never get to do, so for us, it's new, but it's great. 

Q. What would you rate more highly, Olympic Gold medal or a major? 
CHRISTINE WOLF: It's tough to say. It's different things. Like major, you have every year. Olympics you have once every four years. So I don't think you can really compare it. 

Q. And who is your caddie? Clemens Dvorak is a player on the Alps Tour. How do you know him and how does it help having him on the bag?
CHRISTINE WOLF: We've known each other for a very long time. Our Dads used to work for the federation. My dad was for the western part of Austria and his dad for the eastern part. They knew each other for a long time and so we became friends. Yeah, it's good to have him on the bag because he knows kind of how to handle me, how to keep me calm.

Q. Played a lot of golf together? 
CHRISTINE WOLF: We have. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT