COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 28, 2015
Kevin Dodd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just describe the season that you've had, how much the team was going to be relying on you this year.  
KEVIN DODD: Just the team, I was losing two great defensive pass rushers, and just knowing that I had to fill the spots and basically get the job done, and in the locker room a lot was going to be expected out of me because a lot was expected out of the guys ahead of me, so they left a lot on the line.  Just knowing that I have to fill those shoes and need to do better, so I trained the hardest I ever did this off-season, just putting myself in a position to make plays.   
 Q.  What did that entail, your training?  
KEVIN DODD: Just the normal things that we did at Clemson with the regular -- with the team, and at home I probably ran like three miles.  I ran my whole neighborhood, which was like a total of three miles.  I tried to stay in shape because anybody can play at a high level for the first three quarters, but if you can play at a high level in the fourth quarter, that says a lot about you.   
 Q.  What do you think about the match-ups that's been build as Baker against Deshaun?  Just what do you think about the challenge of going up against Baker and what's the approach you guys take?  
KEVIN DODD: He's a great player just like Deshaun.  We're just going to keep him in the pocket and come after him and do what we do against all great quarterbacks.   
 Q.  Is that what the game comes down to, each team trying to keep the guy in the pocket?  
KEVIN DODD: Pretty much.  They have a great quarterback and we have a great quarterback.  The games come down to players making plays, and their players got to make plays and our players got to make plays.  Simple as that.   
 Q.  When you first came to Clemson was your primary thought winning championships or did you like the fact that it was kind of like a family atmosphere that would help you grow as a player and a person?  
KEVIN DODD: I saw a team on the come-up with all these great players.  Freshmen were coming in and doing unbelievable stuff such as Sammy Watkins and stuff like that, all that, just starting as a freshman, and just the environment around Clemson.  That's why I came.   
 Q.  Can you take anything from last year or is it completely different?  
KEVIN DODD: It's going to be the same approach, same approach as last year.  We have to execute the game plan and pretty much get after their players.  It's pretty much the same thing as last year.  We've got to make our plays and they've got to make their plays, and whoever executes the best, it's simple.   
 Q.  Do they look different to you?  
KEVIN DODD: The quarterback, he's something serious, something that we've really got to take into consideration.  He's a great player.  He has all the skill sets to dominate this game, and if we take him for granted, this game could get out of hand early, so we've definitely got to handle this quarterback, and their backs.  They have great backs, two great backs.  So yeah, we've got to respect those guys, as well.   
 Q.  No one is really talking about the backs because everyone is focusing on the quarterbacks.  Obviously you played D-line last year, but what have you seen about the combo of Perine and Mixon that presents a challenge?  
KEVIN DODD: One is more elusive.  Perine, he's a hard one, and that's going to be the talk of the game, who tackles the best.  These guys are going to be hard to get down.  It's going to be tough to get these guys down so we're going to have to wrap them up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT