MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
March 22, 2013
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVE SENKO:   Corey, good start, 3‑under 69.   Maybe just give us a recap on your day.   Looked like you got off to a little bit of a slow start with a couple bogeys and then finished with four birdies on the back nine.   
COREY PAVIN:   Yeah.   It was definitely a slow start.   I bogeyed 10 and bogeyed 13.   Not a very good bogey when you bogey a par‑5.   So wasn't going too well.   But then I just kind of hung in there and just kept playing, and I had five birdies after that.   So it was good, nice stretch on 6, 7 and 8 coming in to get to 3‑under.  
DAVE SENKO:   Want to take us through the No. 10 shot?   
COREY PAVIN:   Let's just talk about the birdies.   Actually, I drove it in the bunker on 10.   It was right up against the lip; and I was fortunate, I hit the lip.   I was fortunate where it ended up, and I had 6‑iron over to the green and got it up‑and‑down for bogey.   So not a good start.   
And 13, let me see.   I'm trying to remember.   I three‑putted.   I'm sure I three‑putted.   I made a three‑putt bogey.   And 15, I hit a sand wedge up there for my third shot about ‑‑ maybe about six, seven feet and made a birdie.   So that made me feel a little bit better.   
Made the turn, and No. 1, I hit a full sand wedge for my third shot, hit it up there about 12 feet and made that for birdie.   
6, par‑5 again, sand wedge from about 85 yards, about seven, eight feet and made that.   And seven I made a nice long putt.   I had wedge for my second shot and I hit it about 30 feet by and canned it.   And 8 I had a really nice shot in.   I had a 5‑iron on the par‑3.   I hit it about maybe about 12 feet, I think.   10, 12 feet, and made that putt and I made a nice little par putt on the last hole, too, which was about a 5‑footer.  
DAVE SENKO:   How were the conditions today?   
COREY PAVIN:   The conditions were all right, you know.   We just had ‑‑ on the back nine we had a couple of little rain squalls and one really good one.   The first one was pretty good.   I think we were on the fifth green, or fourth green, I think.   But other than that, it was fairly benign.   A little bit of breeze.   
The course is in really good shape.   The greens are beautiful.   They're firm.   It's tough out there.   This is definitely one of the tougher courses we play.   So just a lot of ‑‑ I had to play a lot of smart shots today, a lot of long shots into the green, just trying to get it on the green and get par and get out of there and try and take advantage of the easier holes today.   
DAVE SENKO:   Questions?   
   
 Q.   You were a part of the interesting trio there.   You had a pretty good gallery following.   How is that for you guys when you're playing a round?  
COREY PAVIN:   It's always good to have people out there following you.   For me it's always a lot easier to play in front of a lot of people, definitely.   
It was nice.   The course is a little bit out of the way, and there was a nice crowd out here today.   It was very good, and the group behind us, I think people were probably watching between our two groups.   Maybe a little bit probably more in the group behind us.  
   
 Q.   How do you kind of feel like you've been playing this season coming into this tournament?  
COREY PAVIN:   I've been playing nicely.   Actually, I think I finished 19th or 20th last week, but I played a lot better than that.   I just didn't score all that well, and the first tournament I think I finished ninth; and fourth in the second one.   So I've been playing nice, been hitting the ball pretty squarely.   
The putter's actually been the one thing that's been holding me back a little bit.   I putted okay, but I haven't putted the way I'd like to putt anyway.  
   
 Q.   Sort of a rough start on those first few holes and then you got things going.   Did anything really change or just started hitting better shots?   What do you think caused that kind run on the last few holes?  
COREY PAVIN:   Yeah.   I hit the ball a little bit closer on some holes certainly, and you know, the speed of the greens I was having a little problem with early on.   And then I kind of got a good feel of it and made some really good putts.   
But I definitely hit some better iron shots and gave myself some opportunities after I was 2‑over.   
   
 Q.   Things are pretty tight up on top and even behind, good scoring, good closeness there.   What's going to be the key the last couple of days to getting some separation there?  
COREY PAVIN:   Well, this is a hard golf course to separate on, because it is so difficult.   You know, with the greens firm like this, which may change‑‑ looks like we're going to get some rain.   But it's a hard golf course to score on when the greens are firm like this.   So if we don't get rain, it's probably going to be a bunch of guys have a chance.   
When you get some rain, you can be more aggressive and go after the flags a little bit more here.   So the weather is probably going to dictate what's going to happen.  
   
 Q.   And along those lines, talking about how tough this course is, to get off to a slow start like you had and to still be able to make up ground and come back up, how important was that?  
COREY PAVIN:   Yeah.   I was pretty pleased with that.   You know, 2‑over on this course, it is hard to make birdies out here and to get it going.   So having five birdies on this golf course is pretty good.   
And you know, I kind of picked a few par‑5s and the short four‑par and par‑3 to do it on.   So for me that's where I have to score on, on the shorter holes and the par‑5s and just kind of hang on for the longer par‑4s.   There are some pretty good long four‑pars on this golf course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT