U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2012
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Corey Pavin is in the Media Center.   He's the 1995 U.S. Open Champion.   He posted a final round score of 2 under today, 8 under for the championship, top ten finish.   
Great charge today.   You showed a lot of heart today.   Talk about your final round here.   
COREY PAVIN:   Well, that was the good part about it was the charge.   I was a little shaky early on.   I just missed a couple of short putts that cost me, but I hung in there.   I was real pleased with the way I finished, birdieing 14, 15, 16, put some pressure on Roger, who came through with a beautiful shot on 17.   You can't say much about it besides it was just a great shot at just the right time.   
I'm very impressed with the way he played over the weekend, especially from 15 yesterday on through 18 today.   It was pretty impressive.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Corey.  
   
 Q.   Corey, you mentioned your shakiness.   You won a U.S. Open.   Does it take that kind of steadiness that Roger showed today‑‑ and actually for the whole tournament but especially today‑‑ to win a Senior Open?   
COREY PAVIN:   Well, it helps.   What I meant by shaky is I didn't quite hit my shots as cleanly as I'd like to.   When you don't hit them just right, it's pretty tough out there.   
He just played beautifully.   It helps when you hit a lot of greens another at the U.S. Open, a lot of fairways.   Even when he missed a shot, he missed it in a good spot.   On 16 and on 18, he pulled his drives.   He bogeyed 16.   But on 18 he had good shots on both those times.   Where you miss your shots is very important, and he played a very smart, solid round of golf today, and he deserves to win.  
   
 Q.   When you saw that Bernhard had doubled 2, did that change your thinking at all?   He had gone from a four‑shot lead to all of a sudden a lot of guys, including you, were in the mix.   
COREY PAVIN:   It didn't really change my thinking.   Early in the round, I just wanted to play my game and do what I needed to do or just stick with my own deal.   
So I saw it, of course, because I watch the leaderboard all the time, but it didn't change the way I played.   
It's too bad.   Bernhard played beautifully yesterday, and I'm sure he's disappointed today.   But that's the nature of U.S. Opens.   It's tough.   
Today was a very difficult day to play golf.   It was by far the hardest day we had all week.   The wind was blowing.   Most of its blowing, it moved from a little bit different direction.   The greens were a little bit drier.   It played a lot higher today.   I'm sure the scoring average was a lot higher today.   That's the way it's supposed to play.   That's what's supposed to happen on the last day of a USGA event.  
   
 Q.   Corey, when a guy like Bernhard or Tom or even yourself wins two majors, two Senior majors, you figure these guys with credentials have won for a long, long time, when a guy who only won once on a European Tour over a lot of years pulls something like this off, two majors in eight weeks, can you put something like that in perspective?   
COREY PAVIN:   Well, Roger's always been a very good player.   I guess, when you read about it, you always hear journeyman or something like that.   But he's always been a very solid player.   
Sometimes people bloom a little bit later.   Tom Lehman is a pretty good example of that.   He bloomed late in his career.   I guess Roger's blooming a little bit even later than that.   
But he's a great guy, and he's a very solid player.   I watched him all day today, and he looked very steady.   He didn't look nervous.   I'm sure he was, but he kept control of his nerves very well.   
And maybe having won the Senior PGA helped, but I watched the senior PGA, and he looked pretty calm there too.   He's just got a good disposition for playing in big events like this.   He's very impressive.   
   
 Q.   What do you take away from this championship, Corey, personally?   
COREY PAVIN:   I take away that I played well.   I played hard.   There were some spells that I didn't play great, but I hung in there.   I did a lot of good things this week, a lot of things that I'm very pleased about.   
I'm really looking forward to the Senior Open at Turnberry, and hopefully I can get one place better than I did this week.   
THE MODERATOR:   Corey, thanks very much.   
COREY PAVIN:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT