U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Corey Pavin shot a 69 today and is 4 under par for the Championship.   
COREY PAVIN:   Hello, gentlemen.  
   
 Q.   Hi, Corey.   
COREY PAVIN:   How are you, sir?  
   
 Q.   Feel good about that 69 or leave too many out there?   
COREY PAVIN:   Well, I probably actually played better tee to green today than I did yesterday.   The putter got a little cool in the middle of the round, but made some good putts still.   Pretty solid round of golf out there.   
It's going to start playing a little harder and harder here, I think, as the day goes on.  
   
 Q.   When did you start feeling the wind would affect how you played?   
COREY PAVIN:   I think really, for us, maybe 15th hole it started coming up a little bit.   When we got to 17, it was into the wind pretty good.   18 was downwind pretty nicely.   So not 'til the end.  
   
 Q.   Corey, we've seen you as one of several guys that got the 5, 6 range, in there, and then dropped back.   Is that just the nature of the course, that it's hard to keep momentum with scoring?   
COREY PAVIN:   I think that's just the nature of a USGA event, really, isn't it?   It's hard to keep things going.   I could have, but I didn't play 12 particularly well.   It is a hard hole.   Is that the excuse?   It's a hard hole?   I mean, there's a lot of hard holes out there.   
Yeah, but I played very solidly.   It's a little bounce here and a little bounce there sometimes makes a difference.   A couple shots I'd like to have over, but all in all, I'm pleased with the way I played, and you have to just keep plugging away when you play in a Senior Open like this, Senior U.S. Open.   It's going to be tough.  
   
 Q.   You like your position, though?   You're right there, not having to try and do something aggressive or stupid or whatever to catch up?  
COREY PAVIN:   I'm certainly in a good spot.   I think anywhere near the hunt, going into the weekend, is a good spot.   
More than anything, I like the way I'm playing.   So I've been playing pretty well the last couple weeks and haven't really felt like I've gotten very much out of it.   My scoring hasn't been very good.   So scoring is a little bit better this week for me, and I'm happy about that.  
   
 Q.   You also seemed to get off to a nice start, just sort of put yesterday behind you.   You played well.   One little unfortunate thing.   I mean, psychologically, you seem to have no problem.   
COREY PAVIN:   I didn't want to put yesterday behind me.   I played well yesterday.   That's the way I was looking at it.   So I just wanted to go out and play good again today and actually played better from tee to green than I did yesterday.   
I was happy about that.   Probably work a little bit on my putting again today.   Putted really nicely yesterday, and I think, when you have a great putting day, you just expect to make everything the next day.   I still putted okay today, but there was a few putts that I could have made.  
   
 Q.   These greens really don't allow for great confidence with the putter no matter how hot you feel?   
COREY PAVIN:   Well, that's a good point.   I had a few shots.   I had some short putts, but they were hard short putts, and I think that's what you mean.   So you can get some eight‑footers, seven‑footers out here that are really hard to make.   You might make 1 out of 10 or 12 of them.   
I had a few of those today.   Hit some decent putts but just maybe a little off on speed, a little off on line, just enough to make a difference when you have greens that break this much.   Everybody happy?   Okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT