U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2012
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Corey Pavin, shot a 67 today and is 3 under par for the championship.   
COREY PAVIN:   Hello.  
   
 Q.   Hey, Corey.   Good round.   
COREY PAVIN:   Thanks.  
   
 Q.   Do you want to start with the round first and then talk about the 5th?   
COREY PAVIN:   Whatever you want to do.  
   
 Q.   Start with the round first.   
COREY PAVIN:   I played a really nice round of golf today.   I liked a lot of things I did today.   I wouldn't say that I played my best golf, but I managed my game very well.   That's what you have to do at a U.S. Open.   
So I liked a lot of things I did.   I putted well, hit the ball where I needed to hit it, and shot a good score.  
   
 Q.   Walk us through Number 9.   
COREY PAVIN:   Number 9?   I hit the 5 wood off the tee.   I was just trying to make sure I kept it on the left side of the fairway and kept‑‑ keep it away from that right stuff and hit a nice 8 iron in there, right of the hole like I wanted to.   Let it come down and just didn't hit my putt quite hard enough or didn't play enough break.   It was kind of a hard putt to be aggressive with.   I liked the putt.   I hit it good.   It just broke a little bit more than I thought.  
   
 Q.   You have to be happy with your score today, though?  
COREY PAVIN:   Yeah, I played well.   Whether you get a two‑shot penalty at the end of it or not, it doesn't change the way I played golf today.   I was very pleased with that.   I could have done without a two‑stroke penalty, but that's the rules, and they were enforced properly.   And I saw it on tape, and it's definitely what happened.   The ball moved.   
I didn't think it did when I was out on the golf course.   I thought the ball had oscillated and come back to its position.   But it was obvious on camera that it had not come back to its position.  
So I'm glad they're out there because I wouldn't want to break any rules.   So I was glad they brought it to my attention.  
   
 Q.   So what happened again?   The ball moved?   
COREY PAVIN:   The ball moved about a dimple or two is what happened.   I thought it had moved and then come back to its position.   That's what oscillate means.   And it was obvious on the tape that it moved and didn't come back.   
So, once I saw it in slow motion, I could see it, and it was obvious.   It's a two‑stroke penalty.   That's the way it is.  
   
 Q.   Did you think it should be a two‑stroke penalty, or did you think one stroke?   
COREY PAVIN:   No, it's a two‑stroke penalty.   That's what the rules are.   The ball moved.   That's the way it is.   It's a very simple rule, and I was just saying I couldn't live with myself if I knew that happened and I ignored it.   
I think that's what we all do as golfers is we play by the rules.   We call penalties on ourself.   Obviously, I didn't think it was at the time.   When I saw it on video, it was obvious the ball had moved.   It's a two‑stroke penalty.   Just add two to our score.   Very simple.  
   
 Q.   When they took you back to the truck?   
COREY PAVIN:   Right.   They showed it to me in slow motion.   I asked to replay it.   I wanted to be sure.   I was sure.   They're sure.   It's a very simple, straightforward rule.  
   
 Q.   Does it leave a bad taste in your mouth, Corey, afterwards?   
COREY PAVIN:   Not really.   It doesn't change the way I played golf today.   Do I wish it didn't happen?   Well, of course.   I don't want to have a two‑stroke penalty, but that's what happened, and that's the rule.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any question?   You said you thought it moved back.   Even after the hole, did you have any inkling that maybe it was under review or anything like that?   
COREY PAVIN:   No, I didn't know.   When I finished the round, my caddie told me.   Dottie had told Eric that they're looking at the chip and the ball and what happened.   I thought it was possible, I guess, because I thought it had just come back to its position.   
But when I took a look at it, like I said, it was very obvious that the ball had moved a dimple or two and did not come back.   So it's a two‑stroke penalty.  
   
 Q.   Corey, rules of golf differently than a laymen does, changing position [inaudible].   It can move and move back that's oscillation.   Hundreds of times, we see people ground their club and it moves and moves back.   It's actually a change of position.   How often would you say, one out of ten times?   One out of five times?   
COREY PAVIN:   I don't know.   It's not taped all the time.   When I put my club down, I saw the ball move.   I thought it moved back, which happens so much.   It probably, you know, 99 times out of 100, it moves back.   
It happens a lot of times when we're hitting a putt.   We'll kind of just nudge the ball with our putter and it just oscillates, you know.   It just kind of moves a little bit and comes back to its position.   That's what I thought had happened.   Obviously, it didn't.   
I'm glad they brought it to my attention because I would not want to have done something that broke the rules.   I thanked them when they told me about it.   I saw it, and I said thank you for letting me know.   It's very important for everybody else playing in the tournament for that to happen.   And I'm glad it happened.   It's the right thing, and I couldn't live with myself any other way.   
So I'm glad they showed it to me and that's the game of golf.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the course, how it was set up today?   
COREY PAVIN:   The course was set up really well.   There was hardly any wind today.   So the scoring conditions were perfect.   It's not going to play any easier weather‑wise than it did today.   
If they want to get the greens a little firmer or do something like that, but it played very nicely.   I think USGA is probably pretty happy with everything that happened today.  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
COREY PAVIN:   Thank you.   Take care.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT