U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2011
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Could you tell me about your round, overall thoughts?   
 COREY PAVIN: I played pretty solidly. I hit a lot of greens and had a couple opportunities. I didn't make some putts, but I made a couple good up-and-downs, so maybe it all balanced out. But it was a good start and pleased with the first round.   
  
  Q. Tell me about the course conditions compared to the practice rounds, for example.   
 COREY PAVIN: I think it played pretty similar to the way it did in the practice rounds, which is nice. But I think if it doesn't rain anymore, it's going to dry up -- the fairways especially are going to dry up a little bit more and it'll start playing a little bit differently.   
 But the greens were maybe a little more receptive than USGA would like, but the scoring still was not fantastic today. I think the heat was very difficult for everybody to handle. But the course is a pretty tough course. There's a lot of hard par-4s on it, some long 4s, and then it's either a long par-4 or a short par-4, so the short par-4s are where you really have to make your run at it.  
  
  Q. Do you think the heat affected your play?   
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I don't know if it affected my play, but I'm sure tired from it. It was very hot, very sticky more than anything. I'm not used to sweating that much, to be blunt.   
 But it was hard. The heat was difficult. I think it was certainly a factor.  
  
  Q. Could you take me through any of your birdies if you can remember?  
 COREY PAVIN: I birdied 1, I hit 8-iron in there about 20 feet, made that.  
 9, I hit a 4-iron tap-in, and 17 I hit 7-iron about 25 feet and made that.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about your position after the first round, and what's your strategy going forward?   
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I'm pleased. It was a good first day, and I'm not going to really change anything that I've been doing or the way I'm thinking, just try to hit it in the fairway and try to knock it on the green and play solidly. Any USGA event it's very important to keep the ball in play, and that's what I'm going to try to do.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT