THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 2011
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COREY PAVIN: Well, I hit a couple putts too aggressively. If I'm going to 3-putt, I'd rather hit them aggressively. I hit some really good shots and made some good putts. It was a tough golf course. I think we are seeing that today. Nobody is running away. It's going to be all bunched up after today.

 Q. Talking about your putter, I just got it out of your bag here, it has your name on the back and the bottom is all worn off. Tell us about it and how long have you had it?
 COREY PAVIN: I've had it since 1984. I got it brand new in 1984, a Bulls Eye. You can't even read the Acushnet. But I've used it a lot. I've had a lot of rubbings on the green, a lot of strokes, a lot of practising and it's kind of old faithful, a soft shaft. It's just something that I've had for quite a long time. 

 Q. And your thoughts on the final day?
 COREY PAVIN: I think it's going to be anybody's game. Assuming it finishes the way it does now, quite a lot of players bunched up at 6 and 7, so it's going to be pretty interesting to watch I would think. It will be fun to play but I think a nice round tomorrow will do anybody good that's at 6-under or 5-under or 7-under. 

 Q. Moving day, what pleased you most about your play today?
 COREY PAVIN: That I get to talk to you afterwards. You know, I hung in there. I had a couple moments where I could have let it get away. A couple 3-putts that wasn't very pleasing to me, but I hung in there. I made a really good putt on 15 for par. Then came back and hit a really good shot on 16 and made birdie. It was just a battling round. I hung in there and was able to do some good things after I did a couple of things that I wasn't too keen on. 

 Q. Mark Calcavecchia opened up a good lead and then made 7 at 14; were you aware of that on the course?
 COREY PAVIN: Yes, I pay attention to the leaderboards. I saw that he had done that. I think he was on the 16th green when they posted it. You know, I keep track of what's going on and I always want to know where I stand, so I'm a leaderboard watcher definitely.

 Q. You're leaning on that favourite putter, bring it up for us so we can see it. Have you ever changed it?
 COREY PAVIN: I've had it since '84, I got it brand new and I used it probably from 84 to '95 and I switched right before I won the U.S. Open. I used a different one are for a while and it got back in the bag probably four or five years ago and it's pretty much -- I go back and forth between this one and the one I won the U.S. Open with. 

 Q. You were within one shot last year, what would it mean to you to win this one tomorrow?
 COREY PAVIN: It would be nice. Obviously I have not won yet on the Champions Tour or seniors circuit, and to win over here has always been a dream of mine, to win on a links-style golf course; on many levels it would be very nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT