THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2011
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You were 7 off the lead. Needed a good round. How does it feel to get it?  
 COREY PAVIN: It feels good. It was kind of a little shaky for a while. I played the back nine really well. It's a pretty tough back nine. And I think I shot 3-under, if I'm right.   
 But tough golf course, but I did something to get back in here and still be within reach of the leaders.  
  
  Q. You're known for your strike hitting and your shot-making skills. Does this course fit your eye?  
 COREY PAVIN: It does. I really like the golf course a lot. I like to drive the ball straight. There's always holes that don't fit your eye, but a lot of them do.   
 I know if you keep it between the heather, it will be good out here. That's what I try to do and just play smart and be as patient as I can be and birdies will come eventually.  
  
  Q. Five top 10s for you on Tour but no win. Is it just a matter of time?  
 COREY PAVIN: I hope so.  
  
  Q. The Welsh government, they recognized your efforts for the Ryder Cup, what you did for that. Tell us a little bit about that.   
 COREY PAVIN: It was a very nice deal. First Prime Minister sent me a picture, signed it, just thanking me and Lisa for what we did and how we behaved, I guess, in Wales, and very reciprocal.   
 Everybody in Wales was fantastic all the time leading up to the Ryder Cup and during and after the Ryder Cup. It worked both ways. It was a very nice gesture on their part.  
  
  Q. Conditions improved this afternoon. You took advantage of it. This is a golf course that plays long.   
 COREY PAVIN: There's some long par 4s on this course, especially that little stretch in the back nine. But kind of hit that little low runner I like to hit, the ball can run on the fairways.   
 But better keep it between the heather. Tight fairways. A golf course I like. I really enjoyed it when I first saw it. I thought it would be a nice course for me.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT