THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2011
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE TODD: Second last year in the Senior Open to Bernhard, you pushed him all the way there, but your first Senior Open, that was a good experience.  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I always love coming over here and playing, and to me, this is the most enjoyable type of golf, playing links-style. Not that we are at a links course, per se, but it looks like it and feels like it. I enjoy that type of golf.   
 Last year I played well. One guy just played a little bit better. I was really happy for Bernhard last year, because I know he's always wanted to win The Open Championship, and he never did; close quite a few times. I was happy for him but obviously I would rather have won but if anybody was going to beat me, I'm glad it was Bernhard.   
 STEVE TODD: Thoughts on your form? Looks pretty steady.  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I've played okay this year. I've played probably the best week a few weeks ago in Canada at Montréal. I played pretty nicely there. Put it together a little bit more. So, it was a good week. It's been, like you said, pretty steady this year. Not quite where I want it to be but it's getting better.  
 STEVE TODD: You've had a quick look at the course, slightly different to last year.  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, beautiful golf course. I had the opportunity to play Sunningdale in 1983 in the European Open and I heard a lot of people saying that there are some similarities, and I tend to agree in general that it's just a beautiful golf course, a really good golf course to drive your ball. You'd better hit it straight here. There's a lot of heather and heather stuff off the fairways, so a little bit of gorse here and there. It's going to be important to hit the fairways this week and at least keep it out of the bunkers and out of the heather. If you can do that, it will be a good chance to do well here.  
 It's a beautiful golf course. Very impressed with it and I like it a lot. It's the kind of course I can come play every day and enjoy it every day.   
  
  Q. Anything like this in the States?   
 COREY PAVIN: You know, there's almost nothing like this in the States in general I think. It reminds me a little bit of Shinnecock a little bit in some regards. I think -- I've never been up to Oregon and played Bandon Dunes, but I've heard that's very similar. I know Crenshaw built a course out in Nebraska that's supposed to be pretty cool and like that.  
 We don't have the temperatures and the soils that you have here. So we end up, we don't get that fescue that grows year-round and the turf. It's a shame, because it would be great. But I don't really think of anything offhand that is like this in the States.   
  
  Q. Woosie just said that driving is going to be most important thing this week, because of the fairways and the heather?  
 COREY PAVIN: Certainly it's the first most important thing. If you don't drive the ball well this week, I don't think you have a chance. But obviously you have to do things pretty well after, that also.   
  
  Q. How has your driving been this year? I've driven the ball?  
 COREY PAVIN: I've driven the ball pretty well this year much. Hope that continues this weeks. I think it's more important to hit it straight that week and to have some length, that's for sure. It's nice to hit it long ask straight. It is, like I said, it's going to be important to keep the ball in the short grass.   
  
  Q. What do you make of the American resurgence last week at The Open on the leaderboard?  
 COREY PAVIN: I don't really look at that too much anyway. I think golf is just a game of cycles, and Europe's playing -- Europe has a lot of great players right now and they are playing wonderful golf. Maybe more specifically Northern Ireland. But it's pretty impressive, the run.   
 But you know, you look back in time, you look back, Faldo and Langer and Woosie and Sandy and Seve, and that was a period of time, and now there's another period of time. It just seems to go like that. It's good for golf. It's great for international golf and it's nice to see players from around the world playing well. It makes it more interesting, certainly to me, makes it more interesting.  
  
  Q. So the depth of American golf --  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I think there's some pretty good young players coming up. Obviously Dustin, pretty talented young player. Rickie is pretty good, too. There's a whole bunch of others. Kuchar isn't exactly young-ish so to speak in this framework, but there's a lot of good players. A lot of good players over here in Europe, as well.   
  
  Q. How important do you make --  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I think on a scale of one to ten, I would say I'm in the eight and a half to nine area right now.   
  
  Q. Do you ever practise on the mental side?   
 COREY PAVIN: Mentally, I've always been fairly good at that. I don't do anything to practise to sort of be focussed better. I think as long as I'm competitive and I have the ability to win tournaments, that always keeps me very focussed.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT