NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 18, 2011
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about the round today. 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, it was pretty exciting, one bogey, one birdie, but it played pretty hard out there, I thought. It was just very steady. I didn't make a lot of putts, but I hit a lot of putts that didn't go in. Just kind of hung in there and stayed patient, and finally got a putt to drop on 16 for birdie and just tried to manage my game out there. It's a beast of a golf course out there, very long.

 Q. Still thinking about the weather that's supposed to come in this afternoon, I guess how grateful are you now that you're watching everybody else?
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, you never wish bad on anybody, but it looks like the weather is not going to be very good this afternoon. I'm not sure what the forecast is for tomorrow, either. I don't think it's great, is it? So hopefully it'll be okay and the guys can finish today would be nice, just to keep the tournament on track, that's for sure. 
 Just all in all the weather is difficult. I mean, it's cold, and this is a very different breeze that's blowing out there today than we normally have here. The course played quite different than I've seen it play in the past. 

 Q. Where specifically does it make the most difference? 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, it's kind of the longer holes actually played shorter, and the shorter holes all played longer. Usually you play 7 and 8 and 9 downwind, and those holes were more into the wind, and then you get 12, 13, 15 downwind. But then you get 17 and 18 into -- with a little bit of hurt. 17 was real long, and 18 was -- wow. 

 Q. We're seeing some big scores coming off 18. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I hit a pretty good -- obviously I'm the shortest hitter on TOUR, but I hit a pretty good drive, and if I would have flushed a 3-wood I might have gotten on the front edge of the green. But that's just the way I have to play. I hit it short and got it up-and-down for par. Just got to do what I've got to do. 

 Q. Your reaction to seeing Freddie up there on the leaderboard?
 COREY PAVIN: Obviously being one month older than myself really helps him out a lot. I mean, he loves it here, and he's got a great track record here. It doesn't surprise me. This is really a great venue for us in a sense because you really don't have to go too low to compete, especially when the conditions are like this. You just manage your game and play solidly, you can be in contention out here because the course is playing so difficult. 

 Q. That said, with the weather thrown in as a factor, your position at 2-under would seem to be pretty good going into the weekend. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, you know, I'm pleased. I'm going to make the cut, that's for sure. So that's a good thing. I don't think I've done that the last couple years here if memory serves right. 
 I'm happy with that. I actually played very nicely the last two days. I hit it well, and I didn't really swing it that well at Boca last week, and for whatever reason I'm swinging it better this week. I'm just glad to play a little bit better. 

 Q. Maybe it's foreshadowing for the rest of the year. 
 COREY PAVIN: That would be good if it was foreshadowing. I guess we'll find out later. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT