NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 17, 2011
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COREY PAVIN: It was a good round, just didn't finish the way I wanted to. Had it going nicely, scoring well, and could have finished better, but that's the way it goes. 2-under is still a real good round out there today.  
  
  Q. Nice to see your name on the leaderboard as you walked by?  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, it's fun. It's always fun to play well. You know, it's a long golf course for me, but it's just managing my game and trying to do the best I could out there, and a couple good things happened.   
  
  Q. Obviously 2-under is a good score. If you just shoot 2-under, is it a different mindset than when you were 4-under --  
 COREY PAVIN: Or 5-under at some point?   
  
  Q. Yeah, right.   
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I mean, I think you always want to finish off a round, so it's a little disappointing in that regard, that's for sure. But I just went out there and hit every shot the best I could, and I just didn't finish the way I wanted to. But if I had said take 2-under before the round started I maybe would have taken it, I'm not sure.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible.)  
 COREY PAVIN: That was some bright colors, wasn't it? That's what I told him, you're wearing UCLA colors. Maybe he wore it in my honor, I don't know.  
  
  Q. How was it playing with Rickie and Jeff?  
 COREY PAVIN: Well, it's nice. They both played on the Ryder Cup team, and it was cool to play with them. Obviously we had a lot of fun over there and got to know them really well over there. We had a fun day. I'm sure that both of them would have wanted to shoot better scores, but it was nice. Good company out there.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised with the scores in general in terms of 4 is leading? Did it seem like from the outside that scoring conditions were that difficult? Were they?   
 COREY PAVIN: Well, the course is playing really long. It's tough. This afternoon the greens were a little tougher to putt I'd say. I'm sure we'll have better greens tomorrow morning. You know, greens -- it's just hard to hit greens out here, even though they're a little bit bigger, but the course is a little bit longer than it used to be. It's playing tough. It may look easy, but it isn't.  
  
  Q. In your mindset with all the rain forecast that we have, 50 percent, 70 percent --  
 COREY PAVIN: Well, you can't control that so I just go out and play. I don't know what the forecast is for tomorrow at the moment, but it looked okay in the morning and then it looked like it was going to get worse as the day went on. If that is the case, then it would be nice to get out in the morning for us. But hopefully it won't rain in the afternoon and the tournament can stay on schedule and everything.  
  
  Q. Do you have your PGA TOUR schedule mapped out for the year? Is it a couple events?  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I'm just planning on playing four events at the moment. I mean, that could change, but to less if anything else. But I'm planning on playing Colonial and THE PLAYERS and probably Hartford, and then the rest will be on the Champions Tour.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the last couple holes in terms of -- you just chipped over the green?  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, the chip just came out a little faster than I thought on 8, and it was probably the worst putt I hit all day. It wasn't a bad putt, but it wasn't good enough. You know, 9 I hit a good drive and a really good 5-wood in there and it just didn't get up over the hill. It must have been close. I was surprised where it was. And I don't know how long that putt was, 80 feet or 85 feet. I hit a pretty good -- I hit two good putts actually. The second putt I hit real good from six, seven feet and it just lipped out. Those things happen.  
  
  Q. You had that real good stretch there, birdied 17 and then chip-in at 1, eagle, and then great par on 2.   
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. And then 3 you stiffed it. Did you know then you were 5-under and you were leading?   
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, yeah, I pretty much always know where I stand in the tournament. Those are the good things that happened. I chipped in on 1 and made a 20-, 22-footer, whatever it was, on 2 for par. I hit a real nice shot in on 3 and was able to capitalize on that. Those are the things you look back on and say, that was good and some fortunate stuff. But 2-under is a good score.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT