ADMINISTAFF SMALL BUSINESS CLASSIC
October 21, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: We're joined this morning by Corey Pavin making his first trip to Houston as a member of the Champions Tour. Corey, first-year, fifteen victories came at the '84 Houston Open at The Woodlands across the street. Looking at your history, you haven't played here since 2002. Welcome back.
 COREY PAVIN: Thank you.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Maybe some opening comments about what you remember about your first win across the street and thoughts about coming back to Houston and playing in the Administaff.
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I think anybody who's won their first tournament has pretty good memories of it. It was my rookie year out here. I think it was in April or May, I'm not sure. It was real close.
 I think the next week was the Tournament of Champions, I believe, back when it was in the middle part of the year. 
 So it was great to win here. It was something that -- you know, a dream of mine to have won on the PGA Tour. To have done that my first year on tour was pretty special. 
 It was neat. I remember Buddy Gardner had about a 12-, 15-footer on the last hole that ultimately would have tied me. He was playing in the group in front of me. It allowed me to make par on the last hole. Hit the up there about 15 feet and two-putted for par and had my first win.
 It is pretty special to win. I'll always remember that. It's nice to come back here to Houston. They have redone course and there's Bermudagrass everywhere on the greens, and fairways, of course, are in great shape. I think when we played it was bentgrass on the greens. 
 So this was my first view of it yesterday with the Bermuda, and I think it's fantastic. The course is in great shape. I think it's better with Bermuda on it. 
 Looking forward to the tournament. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay. Couple questions here. 

 Q. What's the last couple weeks been like for you just getting back and decompressing? 
 COREY PAVIN: It's been nice. It's been nice to relax. You know, month, month and a half leading up to the Ryder Cup was pretty busy. Not a lot of sleeping. You know, obviously Ryder Cup itself was fantastic. It was is great week. Enjoyed it a lot. 
 Played the week after in Maryland, Constellation Energy, and the issue there was I hadn't touched a club for 45 days until Wednesday. I wasn't really prepared to play in the tournament, but I knew I needed to play and get on the course and kind of get back into a normal routine.
 Last week was great. I just took it easy, relaxed. I was at home, and just spent a lot of time with my daughter who is two. So just kind of chilled out for a week, and it was very nice to have nothing to really focus on, per se. 
 Did a little bit of practicing, and now I'm ready to finish the last three tournaments of the year.

 Q. When you do what you did with the Ryder Cup and you look at it from that side of the fence, do you have a different appreciation for the playing aspect when you get back on the course?
 COREY PAVIN: Not really different. I mean, I know what it's like to play in the Ryder Cup. If anything, I probably have more of an appreciation for what past captains have done. You know, I kind of had a pretty good idea what it was going to be like. It met my expectations pretty much.
 I think with the rain delays and the change of format, it was something we had to adjust to. I had a plan for playing four matches, four in the morning and four if the afternoon. 
 I had that pretty mapped out, so I had to kind of do some things at fly. Not that it was extremely difficult, but it was something you had to change and think about it and organized. That was probably the hardest thing about the whole week, was just kind of just changing things up a little bit. 

 Q. So now you're, Give me my clubs; I'm ready to go back out?
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I'm ready to play. I'm ready to play. It's not very often I have a month and a half off in the middle of the season, or at any part of the season. So it's kind of -- in some ways it was refreshing to get away from the golf. 
 Now to come back for the last three events, I feel a lot more refreshed than if I had played throughout the year. I'm really looking forward to the last three tournaments here. 
 Hopefully I can get a win in in one of these three tournaments. I've been trying to do that all year. Been close a couple times, but it would be a nice way to finish the year. 

 Q. Is it almost strange not to have Julian calling?
 COREY PAVIN: Kind of a good feeling not having Julian calling me. (Laughing.) Sorry, Julian. 
 You know, it's like I knew that when I accepted being captain that I knew it was going to end at -- well, I thought it was going to be October 3rd, but it ended October 4th. That's fine. I was ready and prepared for that. 
 I knew that was when my job was over as captain, and I had no problems with that. It's time for someone else to do it. We'll see who that is. 
 But, you know, I feel very comfortable with the effort and preparation that I put into it. I feel very comfortable with what I did over there and with what the team did over there. It's kind of done for me. 
 Once we got on the plane and left Wales, I knew there would be some aftermath of questions and things like that, but for the most part, Ryder Cup is over.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I think I compartmentalized pretty well. I think the last month and a half or so that's why I didn't play, because I knew that I wasn't going to be able to play. It was going to be too difficult with everything going on.
 Before that, I was focused on playing. There wasn't a lot I could do team-wise as far as the players go until maybe just before the PGA Championship. You know, I was in contact with a lot of guys during the year, but for the most part, until the team was being finalized, there wasn't a lot for me to do on that side. 
 There was other things to do. For the most part, just took care of a lot of details and organizational stuff. When it came to the team and pairings and picks, obviously that's my territory. That's when I kind of stopped playing and focused on the team a lot more. 

 Q. One of the things about playing on the Champions Tour is you get a chance to play on the old-styles courses. Getting to play on those kind of courses as opposed to what you maybe see... 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I mean, that's a lot of fun for me I think for many obvious reasons, one being that I don't hit it that far and I work the ball a lot. 
 And courses even -- in San Antonio, I won there '88. I mean, it's fun to go to venues we've played before, and obviously this I've won on before. It's nice to go to golf courses that I feel like I can go out and I'm comfortable on and I don't have to try to press the hit to the ball further and it's not stretching my hitting game out too much.
 Having said that, the courses we play are not exactly short. Some are a little better for me than others. I think this week this is a good course for me, and obviously next week is a good course for me. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COREY PAVIN: For me personally, I like playing courses like that, the old style courses. Just because we go to a new venue doesn't mean it's not going to be a nice golf course and still have some old style to it.
 Let's wait and see what we go to. Sometimes you change a golf course and it actually suits us better. So you can't really pass judgment on that. It's always sad to leave a golf course certainly that I've had success on. I always hate to leave them.
 But change is always happening, and you have to adapt and figure it out and play these courses that are new and hopefully will fit my game, too. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COREY PAVIN: I think it does. I think it's a pretty good golf course. I hadn't played a lot here in the past just because of the scheduling on the regular tour. 
 I think I've had some good finishes here in the past. I think I've had...
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: T15 in 1990.
 COREY PAVIN: Is that it? Is that the best? 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Yeah.
 COREY PAVIN: See, I thought I did better. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: It's what you think that matters.
 COREY PAVIN: You just messed up my perception. Reality messed up my perception. 
 But I do like the course. I think it's a course that's right in front of you. There are some tricky things, some tricky greens out there. 
 I like it. You know, like I said, we're playing at a different time of year now, too. I think this is the best time to play here, especially with the Bermuda out there now. The course is playing beautifully right now. 
 I like it. I think it suits my game personally. Hopefully I'll play well. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: All right. Well good luck this week. 
 COREY PAVIN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT