THE RYDER CUP
October 4, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Corey, saw you having a word with Colin Montgomerie, tell us what you were saying, please.   
 COREY PAVIN: We just respect each other for what The Ryder Cup is. It means a lot to both of us, and obviously I congratulated him on a job well done, and he said, you know, our guys fought hard and he congratulated me as well.  
 I was very proud of how hard they fought all week. We would win as a team and lose as a team. That's the way it was and the way it is. I'm proud of every single one of them and their caddies and everybody that's part of Team USA.   
  
  Q. Some people were surprised that you put Tiger where you did and Phil where you did because Europe had the momentum. You were proved right. What made you believe that you would get down that far?   
 COREY PAVIN: You know, you never know. I just went with what I thought was best, and as I said, the assistants and I talked about it. Obviously we went out strong, with experience. But I felt like every player was playing well on the team but I wanted experience up front and I wanted experience in the back. And it nearly worked out.   
 Rickie was amazing, I think he birdied 15, 16, 17, 18, I believe. It's hard to keep track of everything out there. But the putt on 18 was incredible. I mean, it gave us a lot of home and from a 21-year-old, it was amazing. And you know, we just came through and he's that kind of kid, and I think we'll see him a lot more in Ryder Cup venues in the future.   
  
  Q. You're always such a passionate player, we see you on the golf course expressing that passion, this week have you been passionate in the team room and calm in front of the cameras on purpose?   
 COREY PAVIN: How did you guess that? It's been different in the team rooms, for sure, but I wanted to be calm. I wanted to be a calming effect on the, as well. And what happens in the team room is a little different, but the talk we just had in there was very emotional. It took me a while to get back out here to talk to you.   
 It's a culmination of two years of work and preparation, and came close, didn't quite get there, but the bottom line is, I was very proud of the team and what they did and how hard they it fought.  
  
  Q. A horrible question I'm entitled to ask: Anything you regret or would do differently?  
 COREY PAVIN: Not at all. I liked the preparation and everything that we did. I'm quite content with everything accept maybe the result.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT