THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COREY PAVIN: 18 is where a lot of the matches come down, and I've just tried to get them out there to relax and have fun and enjoy it, and whatever the result is the result.   
 So far, so good but there's a long way to go still.  
  
  Q. What's pleased you most about their performance, or an individual?   
 COREY PAVIN: What's pleased me the most is that they are having fun and they are relaxed but they are focussed at the same time. I enjoy having my little chats once in awhile with them but I've just tried to let them go and do their thing. They are the guys that have to play and perform and that's what I'm just trying to let them do.  
  
  Q. Tiger Woods in previous Ryder Cups has won seven of 20, he's now won six in a row with Steve Stricker, is that the secret, finding him the right partner?  
 COREY PAVIN: I think obviously they pair well together and they like it. I was planning on playing them the first two matches anyway and seeing how it went, and it went well, so might as well keep going.  
  
  Q. Can you explain why you put them out in foursomes rather than fourball?  
 COREY PAVIN: They have done well in it. I think it's a good format for them. The course fits their games for that format very well.   
  
  Q. What about your rookies, some of them have performed heroics and you said you expected it. What did you see in them that you thought, yeah, they can do this?  
 COREY PAVIN: I just saw a confidence and an eagerness to play. They are not scared to play. They are excited to play and they want to get out there and they want to make some birdies and do good things. I just saw a good -- I had a good feeling about them, but, you know, they just are -- I don't know how you say, they just are confident with what they are doing, and it shows.   
  
  Q. You're currently two points ahead, six points at stake now. Monty says his minimum goal is to get back to 8-all, what's your goal?  
 COREY PAVIN: I don't have a goal. I just want the guys to play the best they can and compete out there and do the best they can in their matches and hopefully win them, and just see what they add up to when the day is over and the session is over.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT