THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON: Well, we are joined by Captain Corey Pavin, and Corey, you have the points on the board, the Europeans seem to have a bit of momentum going. It seems a very nicely-poised match, very delicately-balanced match we have got.
 COREY PAVIN: Yes, it's very close. We had a good finish to the first session. The second session went nicely, and the third session is going pretty nicely for Europe. 
 So you know, we are just going to have to go back tonight, rest up, come out and fire at them tomorrow. We are down in all six matches. I have not seen points given for matches that are through four, five, six or seven holes, so we are to go out and try to turn those around and try to turn the momentum back in our favour. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Time to recharge, regroup and get ready again first thing in the morning. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, both teams played a lot of golf today, and it's tiring to play that much golf out there in that kind of conditions when it's that soft. Both teams did it, and tomorrow, we are going to do it again. 

 Q. In an odd way, is being halted because of lack of daylight right now, maybe a good thing for you to take a step back and maybe try and rebuild some momentum before you come out the next time and stop the bleeding, so to speak? 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I don't think it's a bad thing. I think, obviously, the team didn't get off to a great start today, stopping and kind of rest up, come back out tomorrow and go at it. They are going to get their rest, as well. 
 I'd say it wasn't a bad thing that it got dark (chuckling). 

 Q. It was interesting to see the captains were having to change the order for the flow today; do you see any circumstance tomorrow if time is against us where you would allow the changing of your singles order to help the flow to try to finish? 
 COREY PAVIN: I don't know how that would happen. I know they do that with the team play, with the pairings, in that aspect of it. I don't know if they do that with the singles. I'm not sure if that's actually been discussed, if they change the order.

 Q. If you were asked to change the order, would it be something you would be happy with, your preference in order of the players going out? 
 COREY PAVIN: I'd have to think about it a little bit. I haven't been asked that. 

 Q. A lot of the conventional wisdom coming into this was that playing the FedExCup was good because it kept everyone sharp, but on a day like today, for instance, it looked like maybe the Americans got a bit flat towards the end of the day. Do you think playing as much golf as they have over the last couple of months is sort of tiring them out? And secondly, can you talk about Tiger's play. 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, the first part of your question is not at all. 
 The second part is I think he's playing well. Obviously Steve and Tiger didn't get off to a very good start today. It happens. I'm sure they are going to come out tomorrow trying to turn that around and see if they can get that match back in that win column, which would be a great turnaround. So I'm sure that's what they are looking for. 

 Q. Colin was saying that in his team room, they have players hoisting trophies and great things they have accomplished to get them psyched for this thing; I have never heard of a captain doing that before. Do you have anything similar going on? 
 COREY PAVIN: We have the team decorated a certain way for the team, but that's privacy in what the team room is. 

 Q. How much of a lift did Jeff Overton give the team, and how impressed are you with his play?
 COREY PAVIN: He's played very well. There are a lot of players on Team USA that have played well. It's neat to see a rookie come in here and get off to a great start and play that well. He's played very nicely all week. 

 Q. Given that yourself and Colin Montgomerie have admitted that Europe has the momentum going into tomorrow morning's resumption of the play, does that change your team talk this evening to your players and again tomorrow morning? Will you be changing what you would have had in your mind-set going into the singles Sunday?
 COREY PAVIN: I didn't have anything in mind to say to them anyway. I didn't have a Friday night speech and a Saturday night speech. It was just going to be a matter of what happened out there on the golf course, and we have seen what happened out on the golf course today, and I'll speak to them appropriately. 

 Q. Colin said he's going to come up with three different singles lineups for contingencies depending what the score might be. Will you do that, and when do you have to turn your lineup in? 
 COREY PAVIN: I think it may change now because we started later. There was a time to turn them in, I'm sure that will probably just be modified a little bit, probably be a little bit later. Whatever that time is, is what it is. I'll just look and see how the matches are going and where the playing totals are, and I have different scenarios I've run through my head over the last couple months, and what kind of order I'll do, and just have to see where we are at that point, and then act accordingly.

 Q. The Mickelson/Johnson pairing seemed to make a lot of sense at the beginning, but they haven't really produced for you at all. Can you just talk about that duo and why you feel like they haven't done what you would hoped they would do?
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I mean, everybody thought it was a pretty good pairing. Maybe another week it would be. It just didn't work this week. It doesn't mean that in a future Ryder Cup or anything that it wouldn't produce a lot of points. Just didn't get it going and sometimes that happens. Why? You've got me, but it wasn't, so change it up. 

 Q. Can you give us your take on the Rickie Fowler incident and whether you were surprised that he didn't know the rules? 
 COREY PAVIN: I don't know if he didn't know the rules. It's just something, you know, when you play alternate-shot, it's just funny things can happen. He just had a ball in his pocket, which was the proper ball to play. It was the proper-type ball.  And just didn't think about, you know, marking and picking the other ball up and placing it, so he ended up having two balls in play, which is a breach of rules. It happens. 
 They came back -- I told Rickie out there, don't worry about it. Just come back and play well in the match and see what we can get out of it. He went out and they ended up halving, which I thought was a pretty good result. 

 Q. An American photographer asked out there, why is Team USA wearing lilac?
 COREY PAVIN: Who did they ask? 

 Q. Why are Team USA wearing lilac?
 COREY PAVIN: It's just the choices of colours that we chose to wear. I think I can probably give you a very long answer but I don't wish to at the moment. We thought a lot about what we were going to do, and these are the choices that we did. 
 You know, there's combinations and whatever, but we just wanted to do something a little bit different, and get away from the bold red, white and blue-type look and do something a little bit more different, and hopefully a little fashionable. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Contemporary. 

 Q. There's already been two sessions where you've submitted your order and then matches had to go off later, depending where the boys were on the course. Did that affect your singles lineup tomorrow, if you have a certain way you want them to go off, or are you kind of held hostage a little bit by where their matches are on the course?
 COREY PAVIN: No, I don't think I will be. I think I'm going to have to do what's in the best interests in the team to give us the best chance to win. 
 So whatever the situation is, I will place Team USA in the order that I think it gives us the best chance to win. 

 Q. Has there been a player or two that you have been most pleasantly surprised with thus far in their play, and the opposite side of that question, too, which I suspect you won't answer? 
 COREY PAVIN: You suspect I might not answer the first part, either. 
 I'm pleased with everybody, all 12 players are playing as a unit and as a team, and we are all going out there and trying to play the best they can for each other, or they are playing the best they can for each other. And I think that's great. 
 Everybody is trying to do the best they can, and try to win every match they have, and that's all you can ask from these guys, and that's what they are doing. 

 Q. When you came in here, pretty much everybody had you as the underdog, and so the last few hours here it looks like you're down, but the reality is you're up in the match. I mean, are you in a position if you look at where everything is right now, that you're happy with the state of the match? 
 COREY PAVIN: I'd probably be happier if we were up in all six matches that are on the golf course. But we're up 6-4. These matches are early in the matches. Obviously, we are not in the position we would like to be in, so just have to go out there tomorrow and try to win some holes and switch this back around. 
 I mean, you see how momentum changes in The Ryder Cup. It kind of looked like it was going in our favour after the second session, and now it looks like it's going in Europe's favour now, so we'll see what happens when we get back out there again tomorrow. 

 Q. Imagine when you were coming into this event, you did not expect to lose more than seven hours of play during the tournament. So how drastically did you have to alter your strategy to take care of today's new schedule? 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, certainly a different set of circumstances. You know, that's just part of the fun of it. You just adapt to it and you figure out what's best, and that's what we sat around last night trying to figure out, what the best order of play was, and try to figure out how to make this work, you know, the best for the team. It was kind of fun to have a new set of circumstances to deal with and do it quickly and efficiently. 

 Q. Monty said that going into the third session, his hope was to be 8-8 going into singles. What would you like to be? 
 COREY PAVIN: I had never even thought about it like that. I just put out pairings that I thought were good for the team, and where we end up is where we end up. The object is to have more points than Europe at the end of the competition, and thus, that's the result that I'm looking for. 

 Q. When Jim Furyk missed the putt just before play was called, Tom Lehman seemed very angry. He seemed very upset with the course official when soon after Jim missed the putt. Did you hear about that, and if so, did you know what that's about? 
 COREY PAVIN: I have no idea what you're talking about. I came in when they called play, I came in and came here. I don't know. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Corey, time to regroup and we'll see you tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT