THE RYDER CUP
October 1, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COREY PAVIN: Obviously we are down in three and up in one, but it's so early it's hard to tell hopefully we can get back out there and finish off the morning matches today. 

 Q. I understand the captains were involved in the decision to call off play. Tell us about that?
 COREY PAVIN: We were just getting John on the wake I talk Is, John Paramor, and we had a little three-way conversation. Colin and I both deferred to John to let him make the call. As soon as we deferred, he called play, because he thought it was unplayable, obviously, and we are all hoping we can get back out there and finish this off today. 

 Q. You mentioned that you're down in the first three matches and up in the last one, last night you said you have confidence in those two rookies out, how pleased are you to see how well they have started? 
 COREY PAVIN: Very pleased obviously, any time anybody is up in a match, I'm happy about it, and they got off to a great start birdieing the first two holes and they are 2-up, and hopefully they can keep going and hope the other guys will come back and win their matches.

 Q. Momentum in Ryder Cup is huge, we talk about it all the time, in a football match if it came to this situation and there was a stop in play or another sporting scenario, they would say that was a good thing for The American Team; what did you feel? 
 COREY PAVIN: You know, it could be. I guess we'll figure it out and when we get be back out and play and see if it was a good thing or not and see how it plays out. We didn't need a stoppage or something to regroup or anything like that. 
 The guys are all professionals and they know how to play and they know how to deal with adversity, whether it's being down in a match or nice weather like this.

 Q. I understand The PGA of America have had to buy new waterproofs because the other ones were leaking. Were they not tested? What happened? 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, we were disappointed with the performance of them, and you know, we just fixed it. They were not doing what we wanted them to do so we went out and bought some more waterproofs.

 Q. Enlighten us what your players are doing during this break and how they are keeping themselves busy. 
 COREY PAVIN: Eating, sleeping, watching TV and that's about it. There's really not much else to do up there, just a lot of conversation and a lot of chitchat, and we are just talking about whatever conversation comes up, just to pass the time. 

 Q. As we have been saying to Monty earlier on, the matches are destined to go bay after day where the matches in the evening will not be resolved. Tell us your thoughts on that and keeping your players in the frame of mind in that it's going to be an awfully long week. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, it's going to be a week where we start at dawn and finish at dusk and sometimes that happens. We'll just keep going and hopefully we can get the whole Ryder Cup in, every match, that's the ultimate goal, so we will get a proper result, so to speak.

 Q. What have you been saying to your players during this break? 
 COREY PAVIN: I haven't really had to say much to them. They are all relaxed and just sitting around and like I said, just talking and just waiting. Some are taking little naps and just relaxing. 

 Q. Obviously as we say, Monty has got the momentum as the moment, the crowd are going to be behind them when they get back out; is your job to silence them?
 COREY PAVIN: The crowd will be behind them no matter what's going on out there. That's the great thing about playing on your home soil. Guys are just going to go back out there and try to win some holes and get up in their matches and hopefully turn those around. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT