THE RYDER CUP
October 1, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON: Welcome, Captain Corey Pavin. And Corey, it's been a very trying day for so many thousands of people, all of the spectator, 45,000 spectators, but ultimately from your perspective, there's more USA on the board than there is Europe, so you come out of it in good shape going into tomorrow morning. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, it was a tough day at the start with the weather and everybody is disappointed not being able to play both sessions today. That's disappointing. I think the fans were great. They stuck around and waited for us to come back out and I was delighted that we could at least get out and play some golf. 
 Obviously pleased with the way the U.S. Team came back and performed this afternoon. I was very proud of the guys, and start-up early tomorrow morning again. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Monty was saying, as professional golfers you're used to bad condition, but sometimes for spectators to hang around for seven hours, it's not the easiest.
 COREY PAVIN: As I said, it was great for the fans to stick around and be out there when we came back out, 5.00 start; when did they stop, 9.50 something, and came back out at 5.00. That's a long time to be standing around and waiting. I'm sure they found some way to keep themselves occupied out there. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Your thoughts on the amended play schedule for the rest of The Ryder Cup.
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I think some very smart people got together and tried to figure this out. You know, we had a meeting a little bit before we went out to start, to resume, and we just kind of talked about it and discussed it. Colin and I agreed that we thought this was a very good idea. I think you have all seen it now. I think it's a very smart thing to do. It allows The Ryder Cup to hopefully finish on Sunday, weather permitting. 
 There's going to be a lot of golf to watch the next two days. So, I like it, I think it's a very, very good idea. 

 Q. Now everyone is going to have to play every session from here on out. Was there anyone that you had perhaps wanted to sit in foursomes that you are now not going to be able to? Or had you planned on resting someone at any point in the future you're not going to be able to?
 COREY PAVIN: For me, I feel like this makes it a lot easier. As I said before, sitting four guys out is very brutal to do as a captain. It's nice now that all of the guys are going out. In many ways, it makes it easier. 
 I'm pleased that the solution was thought of by very smart people, other than myself, because I'm not a smart person. So I was glad it was done. I think it's going to be great. It's going to be tremendous for the fans. They are going to have six matches to watch on the golf course, as opposed to four. So I think it's going to be quite a treat for the people who come out to watch it and for the people who watch it on TV.

 Q. Was the problem with the suits specifically that water leaked through them or that they retained too much water? 
 COREY PAVIN: My suit was fine. I had no problems. But I wasn't playing. 
 You know, they just didn't perform the way they were supposed to perform, and so we just went out and bought some more. Simple as that. 

 Q. Is that because they leaked or because they were holding too much water and the players didn't like the weight? 
 COREY PAVIN: I'm not sure. The guys just didn't think -- some of the guys liked them. A couple guys liked them and didn't want any other stuff, and other guys were not satisfied with the way they performed, so we switched them out.

 Q. Do you think a few more smart people should put their heads together and devise a new FedExCup schedule that will allow this not to be played in October? 
 COREY PAVIN: I think let's just stick with The Ryder Cup and let's talk about that. 

 Q. You're playing everybody tomorrow in the foursomes, alters the maneuverability and the slotting for the captain. Just want to get your thoughts on that switch?
 COREY PAVIN: I think it's great that everybody gets to play. Obviously it's a different situation and I'll probably be up later tonight than I was anticipating to being up, trying to figure this out. It's a different scenario. But it's nice to be able to have everybody go out and play. 
 You know, I think with Team USA, there's a lot of guys that can play with a lot of different guys. There's a lot of good combinations out there, and I don't think it will be a big problem. It's just going to be a matter of deciding what to do. There's not really going to be anything -- anybody to try to avoid or do anything like that. It's going to be just get them out there and get them in good groups, because there's plenty of combinations there. 

 Q. Can you talk about the boost Stewart Cink probably gave the team? Seems like he got the ball rolling?
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, he made some nice putts, he made some long ones and just got it going. I saw him make two of them out there. It's always great to make putts. That's how you do well in The Ryder Cup is you make putts, and he made some today. You know, maybe it will spread to the other guys, too. 

 Q. Colin was in here and said that he thought he had a foursomes team more than a fourball team and thought that he had an advantage with this change. Can you speak to how you feel about your team and if you think you have an advantage or not with this new change? 
 COREY PAVIN: I haven't had much time to think about it, actually, Alex, but it is what it is, and I have to go out there and put six pairs together in foursomes and then put two in foursomes for the third session and four in better-ball. 
 So I don't even think about stuff like that. I just kind of get the best six teams I can possibly get and send them out.

 Q. The one decision, big decision, that you will be faced with potentially tomorrow afternoon, even, will be who to put in the two foursomes matches. Do you have any ideas or will you let the morning play dictate that?
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I'm going to hopefully devise a plan for all day tomorrow, but I'm going to put a suggestion box right over here, so you can put some notes in there for me to look at. 
 You know, I haven't really thought about it that much. I was kind of concentrating on the matches this afternoon. I've got all night to really kind of work on it and talk to my assistant captains and talk to the players about it. We'll have a pretty serious meeting tonight, and we'll work on it. 
 You know, I don't think it will take a long time, but it will take a little thinking. We'll figure it out. 

 Q. A lot of people seem surprised by your pairing of Jeff Overton and Bubba Watson. Can you talk about how well they played today, especially out of the gate? 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, it was just a pairing I thought that was going to work. As I said, all of these are discussions with the assistant captains, as well. I really enjoy all of the assistant captains, and the way we work together, it's been really fun. That was one of the suggestions, and I thought it was a good one. 
 I thought about it before, but these guys were itching to go. They are both energetic individuals and they get the adrenaline flowing. To sit them out of fourball, which, you know, I think they would be very good at that format, and put them together, I just thought that they would have a fun time together and enjoy being out there and kind of just feed off each other. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Corey, good luck with your permutations then, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT