U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2015
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Corey Pavin shot an even par, 70.COREY PAVIN: I'm scared.  I'm scared.  There's a microphone here [Laughter].Q. The big question, obviously, is you go from broadcasting last week to playing this week.  Talk about the transition, and was there much of a problem transitioning back into Major Championship play?COREY PAVIN: It wasn't, actually.  The week off of playing and practicing sometimes is good, and I got out here Monday.  I was tired.  I was very tired on Monday from the week.  We had some really long hours. But I played nine, hit a few balls, got back in touch with my clubs.  Had a really good practice session on Tuesday and played nine on Wednesday, and I felt pretty good. Sometimes it works out that way, and sometimes it doesn't.  But this week, it was okay.Q. After you spent a week in the broadcast booth, does it help looking at other players?  Does it help your thinking in terms of how you play?COREY PAVIN: Well, if I could hit it like Dustin Johnson hit it 400 yards off some of the tees, that would help.  There's something to be said for that.  Watching the rhythm of the players and what they're doing out there and how they're carrying themselves is always good to see.  When you get to see it live, it can help.  It reminds me of things that I should be doing.  So it was good.  It was definitely good.Q. Did you even get a chance to hit any balls or chip or putt or anything last week?COREY PAVIN: No, I didn't have any time to do anything.  No.  Thursday was leave the hotel at 5:30 a.m. and get back at 10:00 p.m. Thursday and Friday.  Saturday and Sunday, I think we left at 8:00 a.m. and got back at 10:00 p.m.  There's not a lot of window of opportunity to practice, not unless I got up at 5:00 or something to practice. It's okay.  I knew that going in.  It wasn't like it was a surprise.  I knew I wasn't going to be able to practice last week.  Sometimes it's good to get away from it for a week and then come back and you're fresher and you work on basic things.  That's all I did this week was just work on basics, and if your basics are good, your mechanics are good, then everything should be okay.Q. Even par, is that a good even par or an okay even par?  How do you feel about the round and how you did?COREY PAVIN: I don't know.  I'm not sure because I was 3 under after 11, so I was very happy with the start.  I was playing very solidly.  I hit two bad shots.  I hit a bad shot on the 12th, the par 3, and I hit a poor second on 13, which was disappointing.  A little unlucky on 16 to make bogey there.  Made a couple of good par putts on the back nine as well.  I probably shot what I deserved.  I just wish I deserved a little better.Q. Well said.  You could be in broadcasting.  You're a California guy.  Are you familiar with this place?COREY PAVIN: I am not, actually.  Of all the years I've been here, I've never been to Sacramento.  I've been to San Francisco a lot and Pebble Beach, but I've never been inland.  I've driven through Sacramento before, go from Reno to San Francisco, but I've never stayed here.Q. Earlier, Tom Watson --COREY PAVIN: That was a long answer to that question.  Sorry.Q. Earlier, Tom Watson talked about the roughs around the greens being as penal as any U.S. Open he played in.  Would you agree with that assessment?COREY PAVIN: It is very strong rough.  It's very long, and it's very -- I wouldn't say -- inconsistent isn't the right word because it's all very long, but there's different textures to it as well.  So sometimes the ball sits very high in it.  Sometimes it goes down.  Sometimes down into the grain, and it's different grasses.  So it's very difficult to judge how it's going to come out.  With the greens firm and fast, it's hard to get the ball up and down around the greens.  It is as penal a rough around the greens as I've seen in a long time, which is good.  It's a U.S. Open, Senior U.S. Open.  It's supposed to be tough.Q. How would you compare this setup to last week?COREY PAVIN: I can't.  It's so different.  Totally different style.  I mean, obviously, last week was either you're in the fairway or you're in trouble in some long fescue.  This is a classic golf course, and last week we played a links -- or they played a links style golf course, which isn't really quite a links course, but it looks that way, if that made any sense.Q. Everything you say makes sense.  Thank you very much.COREY PAVIN: It does to me.Q. That's all that Counts.  Thanks.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT