THE RYDER CUP MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 16, 2010
Paul Goydos
Corey Pavin
Jim Remy
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   JULIUS MASON: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Julius Mason, the senior director of communications and media relations for The PGA of America. Welcome to the post-PGA Championship of the United States Ryder Cup Captain news conference. 
 Please allow me to introduce guests with us this morning, beginning with the 26th United States Ryder Cup Captain, Corey Pavin; United States Ryder Cup assistant captains Jeff Sluman and Paul Goydos; and the honorary president of The PGA of America, Mr. Brian Whitcomb; and from Ludlow, Vermont, the 36th president of The PGA of America , Mr. Jim Remy. 
 JIM REMY: Thank you, Julius. Good morning, everyone, and first let me begin by saying thank you to everyone for being here. I know that we are all tired after what was a truly long and exciting week. And for you to be here this morning to take time out before you travel home, we appreciate you being here. 
 We are here to discuss the eight players who have earned automatic berths to the Ryder Cup Team, and I cannot tell you how excited we are to be here. When you look at that list, it should be truly an exciting year. It's just 46 days until Team USA will face The European Team in the 38th Ryder Cup at Celtic Manor in Wales. 
 The U.S. Team, obviously we are one step closer to being finalized after yesterday's conclusion after what was an exciting PGA Championship as we have our eight players from the automatic berth. We cannot be any more proud of those eight players or our Ryder Cup Captain, Corey Pavin. We are truly excited about representing the United States, and Corey, and Lisa, have become wonderful friends of The PGA of America, and on a personal note, wonderful friends to myself. We are 100 percent in support of our captain, and we cannot wait until October 1 until the first ball is hit and the competition is underway. 
 Certainly it is my pleasure to introduce the 26th gentleman to serve as the United States Ryder Cup Captain, Corey Pavin. Corey? 
 COREY PAVIN: Thank you so much. Thank you, Jim, and thanks to Jeff and Paul for coming today. I appreciate you guys being here. 
 My other two assistants had some personal matters, family matters that they had to attend, so they couldn't be here today. 
 But I would like to say, I'm pretty excited. The team is forming. We have eight players now that have qualified, very excited about it. I am very much liking what I'm seeing with the eight players. We basically have four players who have played Ryder Cup before with various amounts of experience, and we have four rookies that have been playing outstanding golf, all eight of them playing outstanding golf. Very excited about everybody on the team. 
 I would like to -- obviously I think by September 7, we'll have the other four. It's going to be a pretty incredible process, one that I'm looking forward to quite a bit. For me and I think my assistants, I think this is really the fun part for me is putting the team together and figuring out what we are going to do. 
 I would like to address something that happened yesterday at the PGA Championship with Dustin. Obviously it was an unfortunate incident that happened. The one thing that I will remember from this more than anything is the way Dustin handled himself. He was very mature, handled it -- I couldn't imagine a player handling it any better than he did. Obviously he had some issues with his play the last round at the U.S. Open; he played beautiful golf on Sunday, put himself in position to win the tournament, and the ruling was what the ruling was. I think it was the proper ruling. It was an unfortunate situation. 
 But as Dustin said yesterday, his main goal was to make The Ryder Cup Team and that's what he did and he very proud to have him on the team and very proud of the way he handled himself yesterday. 
 So I think with that said, open it up to some questions. I just took your job away, Julius. 
 JULIUS MASON: With that, we'll go ahead and open it up to some questions. 

 Q. You just added two of the longest hitters on TOUR, I think two and three in driving distance, which would seem to suggest that maybe when you get to the captain's pick stage, you might need to go with stability, perhaps? 
 COREY PAVIN: Jeff, Paul, you writing that down? I want to make sure we have this. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: How do you spell stability? 
 COREY PAVIN: S-t-a -- (laughter).
 I think it's going to be interesting. I believe the eight players that have qualified is really going to allow a lot of flexibility for the four picks. I think if I drew it up, I couldn't have drawn it up any better for the eight players that are on the team and the types of players that are there. 
 So I believe that there's going to be many choices to be made there. I think it's not just going to be about a type of player. I think there's going to be a lot of room for maneuvering, which I'm very pleased with. A lot of times captains are in situations where you get a little stuck and you have to pick certain types of players. 
 But I think this allows a lot of flexibility, and that's what's going to be very interesting about the next three weeks. 

 Q. When you have a couple of young players like Bubba and Dustin saying, their goal was to make The Ryder Cup Team, and almost sounding like they would prefer that over winning a major, what does it say about them and the so-called young players?
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I think they both would have rather won a major and made The Ryder Cup Team, I'm sure. But that's very exciting for me and exciting for The Ryder Cup. 
 I called and talked to everybody last night, and to hear from them and their excitement and level of playing on The Ryder Cup, is thrilling. These guys are gung-ho, these rookies, and so are the veterans. But it's nice to see these young guys excited, wanting to be there and do whatever it takes to have the team win. And that's the type of players I want to have on the team. So it's a great situation for Team USA; and for all of us, it's a great opportunity for us. 

 Q. Would you have guessed that given the nature of the points system that you have not two players qualified without having won a tournament this year? 
 COREY PAVIN: You know, I think it's certainly -- it was possible. It's basically a modified Money List. 
 But the one thing, the guys that haven't won have put themselves in position to win and they have played very well coming down the stretch. I've watched these guys play and these guys are winners, even though, as you say, they haven't won, they are guys have a want to win and will do anything to win. 
 It's a big difference from guys that haven't won and looks like maybe they are just trying to protect their position. These guys are guys that want to go out there and win tournaments and are willing to take the chance to win, and that's the type of characteristics I'm looking for in players on the team. 

 Q. A couple of things, you touched on the first part just now, but at St. Andrews, Dustin was telling us that after making a few mistakes as he was younger, he was very keen to be seen as a positive role model, wonder if the way he handled himself yesterday was a good demonstration that he's doing so, but on the other hand, he's taken two big knocks in the majors, do you think it's going to be difficult for to you maybe raise his morale for The Ryder Cup? 
 COREY PAVIN: No, I don't think there's anything that needs to be raised. If anything, I'll probably have to calm him down for The Ryder Cup. You know, I think what I've watched in Dustin this year, to have what happened to him at the U.S. Open, is very hard as a player. But you can just see how much he's learned from there, from the British Open, to the PGA Championship. 
 It's important as a golfer to grow and to learn how to handle pressure. And we've seen -- I've seen a tremendous amount of growth in him this year in that regard, not only in that, but the way he handled himself after the PGA Championship. I thought he did a fantastic job, and you know, he's a young guy and he's learning very quickly. I like to see that. 

 Q. Not to get into specifics of who you might be thinking of picking but I'm just wondering from a standpoint of in the next three weeks, if somebody wins, regardless of their current position, how much that would weigh into your process of a possible selection?
 COREY PAVIN: Obviously what happens the next three weeks is going to be very important. You know, obviously guys that are higher up in points that have done better this year are being looked at more closely now. But if someone pops up in the next three weeks and plays very well, you know, he's going to be added to the list of people to look at. 
 We'll just have to wait and see what happens, and that's -- again, that's what's kind of fun for the next three weeks. You guys get to look at it as well as us up here, and if guys come out and get hot and play well, they are going to be looked at very, very seriously. 

 Q. I can't believe we went six questions without talking about Tiger. Did you see enough from him to put him high up on the consideration list? I'm sure he already was. But he's got guaranteed one more start, I think he could play Deutsche but he's not in it yet. What are you looking at from him as far as one of the four slots? 
 COREY PAVIN: I think a couple of things have happened the last couple of weeks. Obviously he played better last week. He's working on some things that seem to be improving his game. So I was obviously pleased to see that happen last week. 
 His comments to the press and the media are very positive. He wants to play and he wants to be on the team. Again, he's high on my list. He's certainly a big consideration, no doubt. 
 But as I've said before, you know, everybody I'm looking at, and come September 7, I will let you guys know who those four are going to be. But he and a lot of other guys are up on my list, and probably that list will grow in the next three weeks. 

 Q. I've got a couple parts to my question. I'm sure you've looked at the makeup of the PGA team, can you talk firstly about Martin Kaymer's success and the fact that Pádraig Harrington is going to have to rely on a captain's pick to make the European Ryder Cup Team?
 COREY PAVIN: Obviously Martin played great. The putt he made on 18 was a pretty incredible putt. Those are the putts you dream about as a player to make. He played extremely solid golf yesterday. You know, he's going to be -- I'm assuming, is he locked in? He is? Okay. 
 He's going to be a tough guy to play against out there. He's a great ball-striker. He does everything well. I don't see any weakness in his game. But he's going to be a great addition to the European Team, certainly. 
 You know, as far as who Colin is looking at and what he has to do specifically about Pádraig, obviously he's a great player. And Colin is going to have some very tough decisions to make. He has three picks and it looks like there's more than three people that are worthy, very worthy picks. I have the same situation, but he's got some guys that have some Ryder Cup experience, some guys that have won tournaments and haven't played; he's got a tough decision in front of him. That's what we get paid the big bucks to do.

 Q. Are you surprised Pádraig didn't make the side automatically?
 COREY PAVIN: Am I surprised he didn't make it? 

 Q. He's not going to play again until Barclays. 
 COREY PAVIN: I guess you can flip that question around to someone on our side, too. Golf is a funny game. The game goes away, comes back; it waffles. I think Pádraig is a great player. The guy's won three major championships. He would be a very good pick, but I don't pick for that side. So it's a tough choice for him. 

 Q. Just following on from Bernie there, does it encourage you to find that there are certain Europeans, Harrington among them, Casey, who are not actually going to play in the last qualifying event, choosing not to? 
 COREY PAVIN: You know what, I've got enough issues on my side right now. (Laughter) I don't really think about it that much. 
 You know, to me, what happens on the European side is not in my control. Colin is going to do what he's got to do. As I said, it's a tough job that he's got in front of him, and I've got a tough job in front of me. For me to sit here and think about what he's going to do and what players are going to be there is just all hypothetical stuff, and when the teams are done, and there's 12 against 12, then it becomes a little more interesting to me. 

 Q. Just two things. One, you said you contacted all eight players that made the team. Can you tell us if you contacted any other players that are on the list that didn't make the team last night and who they were? And second, when Tom Lehman was captain, he had The PGA of America keep a continuing list of Ryder Cup points through the three events before he had to make the picks; are you intending to do the same thing? 
 COREY PAVIN: A lot of questions. There were a couple of other people that I was in contact with last night. But the eight were the most important, the guys that qualified. I wanted to make sure that I welcomed them to the team and congratulated them on making the team. 
 As far as the points, yes, I want to keep a continuation of the points. I want to make sure I don't miss anything. It's going to be I think pretty obvious who is playing well. But I want to have an up-to-date list come the evening of September 6 of points and where those guys would have stood if the points had continued, definitely.

 Q. Can you tell us who you contacted outside of the eight? 
 COREY PAVIN: I could. (Laughter).

 Q. Would you? 
 COREY PAVIN: Would I? No, I think that's something that I'd like to keep to myself. 
 About you it's multiple people, but, you know, there's going to be a lot of people I'm going to be talking to in the next three weeks. I think it's important for communications to be open between all of the players out there that we're considering, and to keep in touch with them, certainly, on a weekly basis, if not every few days. 
 So there's so many people that I'm going to be talking to; there's so many candidates for those four picks, we can be talking about this for hours and hours. So I'll keep that confidential.

 Q. In the NFL Draft, some teams have the philosophy of picking the best available player at any position for each pick. I wonder if you could just talk about philosophically how you weigh what your assessment of your talent is versus how they will pair with other players and spirit and things like that. 
 COREY PAVIN: I think when the system was changed two years ago to have eight players make it on merit and four players picked by the captain, it was a very important issue, and it allows the captain to put together a team of 12 that is the best team of 12. And that is not necessarily the best 12 players, per se. 
 So that is going to be part of my consideration in the next three weeks, and all of our consideration the next three weeks, is what four players do we add to that eight to make the best team possible. We want Team USA to be the best team. 
 That may not necessarily be what everybody would perceive to be the next best four players, whatever that may be, and that everybody is going to have their opinion about that. 
 But that's my job, is to put the best team together and as I said, it may not be everybody's perception of what the next best four players are. 

 Q. Wonder if we can get a mic check on Sluman to make sure it works. 
 JEFF SLUMAN: (Clearing throat). 

 Q. As you concentrate Tiger as a pick, what are the pros and cons of him being on the team? 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, he's the No. 1 player in the world. That's a pretty good pro. Obviously I'm considering him highly, no doubt about it. He's playing better. I think we have all seen that and he wants to play, he wants to be a part of the team. But it's going to be my judgment whether I pick him or not. 
 I don't think there's any cons.

 Q. The question of captaincy and the number of vice captains and so on; could you tell me, please, whether you were required to pick four vice captains or whether you chose that number yourself? And secondly, would you please tell us whether you have any clear idea so far that you would tell us about as to what the two gentlemen on either side of you will be doing at Celtic Manor in three weeks' time. 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, it was my choice for four. There was nobody -- certainly nobody from The PGA of America or anybody where else saying, we would like you to have so many. That was my choice. Four is the maximum, and I figure I need as much help as I can possibly get, so that's why I picked four and that's why I picked these four individuals, because they all bring something different to the table from experience to levity and various things in between. 
 You can ask them what their duties are because I'm not sure what they are. (Laughter).

 Q. Would you tell us what you see your duties as being? He'd be levity and he'd be experience? 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I can be, yeah (laughter). I think it's just support Corey and the 12 guys; trying to make their lives as comfortable as possible is going to be goal one. It can't be that easy playing in one of these events; so whatever we can do to make it easier for them is going to be the first one. And I think second is you need to be a pair of eyes, Corey can't be in more than one place at once, right? 
 So he needs people and eyes to kind of watch what's going on, maybe watch the matches the first couple of days, we are going to have an assistant with every group, so, again, we can be a second pair of eyes for Corey to watch what's sort of going on and evaluating.
 JEFF SLUMAN: I have a little bit of experience in the prepare assisting Captain Nicklaus. I think Corey realized that went well and players certainly didn't mind me in the locker room. There's a certain trust with all of the players, and I think that's important, and as Paul said, Corey needs a set of eyes kind of on every group because he's going to be running around and he doesn't know exactly how crazy it's going to get for him. 
 So you've got four guys with Davis and Tom and Paul and myself that Corey can trust, and we're there to do whatever we can to make the guys just play the best golf they can. And whatever Corey asks, we're going to go out and do. 
 COREY PAVIN: Anything? 
 JEFF SLUMAN: Virtually. 
 COREY PAVIN: Just checking.

 Q. In professional sports, any road victory is hard to get, 17 years is a long time, all the way back to The Belfry; of course, the Americans have done well during that time, but you never conquered until 1993; what may be the intangibles the way you approach a course like the Celtic Manor that's brand new and most European players know pretty well. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, it's been a long time since we won over there. I obviously would like to change that statistic. 
 Obviously in '93, I know I played on that team and Davis played on that team so we have two players going over there that were there and participated on that team. I think that's a positive, obviously, and you know, I'm going to express a lot of things to the guys. The men that played at Valhalla last time for the first time, just think about what it would be like if it was exactly reversed, and you have 85, 90 percent of the people cheering for the other team. 
 So I think it's going to be important to prepare the guys for the reception that we are going to get over there. It's going to be a different feel to it, certainly. Quietness is a very good thing for us over there. It's hard to listen for quiet but we are not used to doing that. 
 It's a big challenge. The golf course, as you said, The Wales Open is played there, so a few of their players certainly have played in the tournament and they have had experience on the golf course. Colin has the luxury of setting up the golf course the way he thinks best to suit The European Team. 
 We are travelling to Europe, and just the travelling is difficult. Lisa and I are trying to do everything we can to make Team USA feel very comfortable and at home over there. That's a big part of what we are trying to get accomplished, and hopefully all of that stuff will work and guys will go out and play well and respond well. That's the goal is to get these guys over there and play the best golf they can. 
 You know, once the gates open and they are off and running, it's up to them to play. We can just prepare everything the best we can as assistant captain and captain and captainess is to prepare the best we can for everybody to go over there. And there's a lot of preparations between now and then. There's a lot of preparation on my side now that I know who is going to be on the team, certainly eight guys, and when I get the other four, there will be a lot of conversations happening and some meetings, and all of those things will be part of it, and some more that I'm not going to say at the moment.
 Preparation is critical. And when get these guys over there, we want them comfortable so they can go out and play some golf and have fun and be focused and try to win their matches.

 Q. Is Anthony Kim's fitness a concern at the moment?
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, absolutely it's a concern. He had surgery on his thumb. I spoke with him last week and he said it's getting better. It's certainly not 100 percent. But he's going to be working hard and keep trying to get his thumb in good shape, and believe me, I will be monitoring it very closely. He's certainly on my list, as well. There's a lot of guys on it. I'll have to wait and see how he's responding, and through conversation and score will be important for him in the next few weeks.

 Q. Back on the Dustin Johnson situation, if the two-shot penalty had cost him a top-eight spot, would you have felt such sympathy that you would have gone to him and said, you're on my team?
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I certainly felt sympathy. He's played great this year. I think it's very -- I think everybody is happy that it didn't cost him a Ryder Cup spot, and he's probably the happiest about it. 
 He was quoted -- there was a quote of some kind, I don't have it word for word, but in essence, he said he was very pleased it didn't cost him a spot on The Ryder Cup Team and he made the team. That shows how important it is for him to make the team, and he seemed to put the whole incident behind him and he was focused on The Ryder Cup coming up. Very pleased to hear that from him, not only just to hear that from a captain's viewpoint but from a maturity standpoint, as well. 

 Q. Corey has given an assessment of his eight guys, wonder if you could, given that of the eight, four have never played in The Ryder Cup and two others have never won; given the strengths, what do you like? 
 JEFF SLUMAN: Actually I talked to Corey last night and from what I have seen, the young players now are so much more able and ready to compete. 
 When Corey and I came up many, many years ago, the old theory was, you have to make the first Ryder Cup Team, you don't want to be a pick or whatever. But irrespective of that, these guys are ready to play. They are more experienced at a younger age than we were. 
 From what I've seen in the last eight or ten years, you just let them go; they are going to play great. They are big, strong players. They hit it a mile, which I think in the weather conditions that are anticipated, I don't really see 80 degrees every day over there; that's the type of player you want to have. As Corey said, he couldn't be more excited and I can't be more excited the way the team is shaping up right now. 
 PAUL GOYDOS: I'd like to go back to his question, he talked about stability. We tend to look at players like Bubba and Dustin as one-dimensional because they hit it so far, because it overwhelms you. But the reality is you don't make that eight without being stable. I don't think that's even -- I think the premise of the question was incorrect. These guys played well all year. You look at that group and they played well early in the year, they played well in the middle of the year and they played well in the end of the year, and that's the only way you can make the team.
 And sometimes we look at their one unbelievable skill, and a couple of these guys, it's driving distance and we tend to ignore the other things they do, and they do them quite well. You look at Dustin, he got to where he was, not because of the distance. He hit a great wedge shot on 16, where he made birdie. Hit a great middle iron shot on 17, a very hard hole to make birdie. And the pitch shot on 18 was phenomenal, considering the circumstances, which has nothing to do with his driving distance. 
 I think we need to get away from the fact they are not one-dimensional; they are well-rounded guys that are ready to compete and go out and win The Ryder Cup without question. 

 Q. Have you talked to any people outside of golf, specifically, any coaches or managers in other sports, or even any business leaders to kind of pick their brain on how to form a team and how to take 12 players from what is largely a very individual sport and get them coalesce and buy into a team sport, and if so, who that might be? 
 COREY PAVIN: I've talked to a few people about it. I haven't talked to a lot of people. It's a pretty long list. 
 You know, Ryder Cup is an interesting deal. It is a 12-man team, absolutely, but it's different than other sports, as well, in a team concept kind of way. You play basketball, you're out there playing with five guys, you play football, you're out there playing with --
 JEFF SLUMAN: 11.
 COREY PAVIN: 11, thank you. (Laughter) and you're working together on the field like that. In The Ryder Cup, when you play, you're playing in groups of two at the most. And that's the person that you need to be your teammate with at that time during competition. You know, the team room is very important and to hang around and have fun and enjoy each other, and we all have -- we are all going to have a common goal, is to win The Ryder Cup, that's what we are going over for. 
 But when it comes down to it, the team aspect of the actual competition and playing, is two-on-two. And to have your teammates out there watching you and following you, and supporting you, is fantastic. It's great stuff. So it's a little bit different than trying to get everybody together to play on court or play on the field together, play on the diamond together; it's a slightly different concept, but it's been very interesting talking to a lot of guys about it. I take certain things from people I've talked to and use it, and other things just don't really, you know -- they don't parallel very well. So it's been a very interesting process. I've learned a lot and try to learn these guys personalities and what their makeup is and what makes them tick, has been a lot of fun, as well. 

 Q. Could you give an example of who you might have talked to and what you might have gleaned from them? 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I talked to Coach Howland at UCLA and we had a talk about it. It was very interesting talking to him because we bantered about exactly what we were talking about, team play and playing together, and even he was saying it's different with golf. I talked to him a bit but it's interesting talking with these guys and just going back and forth, because everybody has their ideas and concepts of what they think works. You talk with one coach and he says one thing and another will say the exact opposite. What it comes down to is what I think will work best; and the more information that I can gather and come up with a concept, the better. 

 Q. Obviously you're going to be looking for guys that are playing good golf prior to The Ryder Cup; how much of a factor is it going to be for you to try and evaluate who will add to the team chemistry we hear so much about, team chemistry being a factor? 
 COREY PAVIN: Chemistry is going to be a big part of it. Obviously the way they are playing is going to be important. And, you know, those four guys that complement those eight is going to be a very key factor. You know, as we sit around the next three weeks, and I talk to the assistant captains and I talk to the players, the eight players that have made the team, pairing is going to be a very interesting part of that, as well. 
 For the most part, come September 7, pairings are going to be somewhat in order. We are not going to be to go over to Celtic Manor and these guys are not going to be wondering who they are possibly going to be playing with. They won't be set in stone or anything, but the guys will have a pretty good idea of who they are going to be playing with or might play with, and I think that's important for their preparation and for our preparation.
 All of those things are going to be factors in who the four picks are going to be and makeup the best team that the U.S. can field there. 

 Q. How much of an issue is it that for you since April, sports' biggest prizes have eluded the Americans, and two have gone to the Europeans? 
 COREY PAVIN: It doesn't bother me at all. You know, I think if we played this thing on paper, if we looked at paper and we looked at maybe my career, you know, I don't think I would be sitting here. I don't think I would have won tournaments and I don't think I would be hanging around. 
 So you know, the deal is that we don't play on paper, we go over there and whoever is playing the best at Celtic Manor is going to win. You know, there's so many players that have come up and you say, gosh, you know, they are going to be great and they don't pan out; there's been players that are going to come out people will say, who is this guy, he's never done anything, and they are great players. It's pretty interesting that way. 
 So when it comes down to it, it doesn't matter what's happened before you go over to Celtic Manor; it's what happens at Celtic Manor that matters.

 Q. How much importance do you place on the details of things that you'll need to have over there to make the players comfortable? You obviously are experienced in that, having won at The Belfry. Is it things like satellite TV, access to ESPN, SportsCenter, things like that?
 COREY PAVIN: There's so many things I want to say, but I won't. (Laughter) that's a good question for Lisa because she's organizing all of that. That's been a big part of what we're trying to accomplish and she's doing most of that work, to be comfortable over there. The food is very important. We are trying to get U.S. TV over there and satellite communications, and just the whole general feel of our team rooms and hotel rooms, everywhere, our floor that we're on, all of those things are very important. Don't want to overdo it, don't want to under do it, and so there's a balance there. 
 As I said, I just want to make everybody feel comfortable, and we're not just talking about the players; we're talking about the wives, talking about the caddies, everybody's over there with one goal in mind, and as I said, it's all of us trying to accomplish this goal. 

 Q. You said there are no cons about Tiger Woods, but the U.S. have never led going into the singles with him on the team, and his own play in team play reflects that record; is that not a con that would concern you?
 COREY PAVIN: It's not a concern at all. We haven't led a Ryder Cup going into singles for a long time. I mean, Europe's been very strong. I don't think it has anything to do with Tiger's record or anybody's record. I think it's the fact that Europe's been quite good for a while, and we have been better, but it's been tough. It's been extremely competitive, and, you know, we just have to go out there and play well. We did at Valhalla, and it's the first time for a long time that we have played very well out of the gate. Obviously in '99, we came from behind and won there. But, you know, Ryder Cup is tough. It's a shot here, a shot there, a putt here, a putt there, something happens, momentum changes. It's a very fine line between winning and losing The Ryder Cup. 

 Q. You seem to put a positive face on most of this, but what worries or concerns do you have from now until The Ryder Cup? 
 COREY PAVIN: I don't really have worries and concerns. I think I'm trying to take care of everything, and between these two guys and the other two guys and Lisa and the members around the team now, I'm trying to make sure there are no problems when we get over there and everything is set and we are in good shape. 
 You know, obviously I guess concerns would be if somebody gets hurt or something happens or family emergencies, all of those things, contingencies, they are hard to plan for something like that. 
 You know, I mean, I can't think of anything else that could happen besides some kind of an emergency situation that we won't be prepared for. 
 JULIUS MASON: Seeing no more questions, ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the news conference. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT