THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 25, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A valiant effort, you must be delighted but in the end you just came up short?  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, it's tough when you almost win. It's almost harder when you just finish second and not win. It's disappointing. I played well, and Bernhard didn't play his best golf today I would say, but he did what he needed to do to win, and that's what it's about. I just came up one shot short, that's all.  
  
  Q. Was it a question of patience?   
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, especially here at Carnoustie. You just have to play smart and play within your own abilities. And the second you try to force it out here is when you start making mistakes. I just tried to play my own game, and I was never far enough -- too far away that I had to take a big chance. Even on 18, I could have hit driver, but I thought I could possibly make a birdie with 3-wood off the tee and I thought that was the smartest thing to do, and if I had, would have been a playoff.  
  
  Q. You must be pleased with your form overall?  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I played well. It was a week of 12-, 15-footers and nothing seemed to go in I hit a lot of good putts. But I'm very pleased with the week all in all.   
  
  Q. Playing in the U.S. Senior Open next week?  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I'll be in Seattle next week.   
  
  Q. So you take that good form into that combination, different kind of course?  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I've been playing well for a couple of months now. I'm not sure what I need to do to win -- I think I need to do, but I just haven't quite got over that hump the last couple of months. But I'll keep at it and hopefully I'll get a win.  
  
  Q. The next you'll be back on these shores is in October at Celtic Manor for The Ryder Cup. How are you looking forward to that already with it getting ever closer?  
 COREY PAVIN: Well, it's going to start getting interesting, more interesting for me after the PGA when eight players make it on points and then I'll have some thinking to do for a few weeks for my four picks. That will actually be the most fun part for me when that starts happening.   
 I still have a few more tournaments, the U.S. Senior Open and PGA Championship. Not exactly sure what I'll do after that but I have a few more tournaments to concentrate on.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT