THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 22, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COREY PAVIN: I played pretty well the first maybe nine, and the back nine was just a little loose. So I had to work a little harder than I wanted to on the back nine but that's golf. Sometimes it's easy and sometimes it's hard and I had a little of both today.  
  
  Q. They say this weather is going to continue for a couple of days but there was a bit of breeze the middle of the day. Would you rather the breeze come?   
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I would rather have it be breezy all day for everybody, but you never know what you're going to get here. I do like to play in a little bit of breeze and wind, but it's incredible to get a day like this. This was beautiful and to be in short sleeves is even more amazing.   
 Hopefully the weather will stay good, because it's certainly a lot more fun for everybody when the weather is nice.   
  
  Q. This is not the way it's meant to be for a Ryder Cup Captain; a nice, easy year looking forward to The Ryder Cup and planning for that, you're playing your socks off and doing so well. Is there a point where you have to say, hold on, I need to concentrate on my captain's duties, or are you happy to keep playing to this level at the moment?  
 COREY PAVIN: My wife, Lisa, is doing a lot of the behind-the-scenes work, and that's allowing me to concentrate on golf and it's helped me a lot and allowed me the freedom to play tournaments and focus on that.   
 But when I get off the course, I look at scores and talk to the guys and do a lot of that stuff, as well, so I can actually -- it's not really doing two things at once, but sort of doing two things separately, which is the only way I can do it.  
  
  Q. From the outside your game looks to be getting better and better; does it look that way to you?  
 COREY PAVIN: The last few months I've played fairly solidly, for me, anyway. I've looked the way I played and go work on a few things around the range in a second. I didn't really like the way I hit it coming in but I'll work on that. It's been fun and it's always fun when you're playing good and hopefully I can keep doing that.   
  
  Q. There are not too many people in red figures at the moment; so anything under par is going to be nicely in touch going into tomorrow.   
 COREY PAVIN: I think anything par any day here is good, and if you can do it four days in a row, you're certainly going to be in contention on Sunday. It's just a matter of hanging in there, you're going to hit it in a bunker or two now and then, and take your lumps and try to make a birdie anywhere you can, because they are few and bar fine out here.  
  
  Q. Is this a course where you have to stop yourself playing shots you normally would play because of the way the course is set up?   
 COREY PAVIN: I think any links course and Open venues, it's important to plot your way around and keep it out of the bunkers, and sometimes you just have to have long shots in for your second shots on 4-pars and just do that and not worry about it and don't take on some bunkers, and I did that a couple of times today. Sometimes it paid off and sometimes it didn't, but that's just the way you have to plot your way around links courses.   
  
  Q. How do you find the general setup of today? The feeling was it was playing a little too long; your thoughts on the general setup?   
 COREY PAVIN: I think it was very good. You know, where we were playing it in the practise rounds, it was pretty long, and you never know what you're going to get with the weather and the wind. And I thought they did a very smart, fair thing today with how they had the course set up.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT