TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Okay. Corey Pavin, thank you for taking the time to come in. Great finish, a lot of excitement at the end. It came up in a playoff loss. If you could kind of go through the day and how you got into that position.   
 COREY PAVIN: Well, you know, I played pretty solidly today. You know, I made -- I think I only hit really one bad putt and that was on 14. It wasn't even a bad putt. It was kind of a misread on 14 and made bogey and came right back and birdied 15.   
 Finally made a putt over about 12, 15 feet on 17 today. It was a big putt. I knew I needed to make one, maybe two birdies coming in, so the putt on 17 was huge.   
 You know, the chip I had on 18 in regulation, you know, was very makeable. It was kind of tricky, but all I was doing was trying to make that. I left myself a little bit of work coming back. That was about a 4-footer, and hit a really good putt there.   
 The playoff was a little disappointing to me. I kind of popped up a 3-wood there and left myself in a pretty precarious spot, but all in all it was a really good week. I was pleased with the way I played all week, very solid golf. Now it's just time to go back and play with adults my own age next week.  
 DOUG MILNE: Questions?   
  
  Q. Corey, at one point did you feel by looking at the leaderboard that I have a shot to win this golf tournament? Was there any point?  
 COREY PAVIN: I think -- well, actually maybe before I teed it up on Thursday, but I don't think that's what you really asked me.   
 I'm trying to remember where it got really to a point -- I think when I made my birdie on 12, I felt like I had a shot, and I knew I needed to do some good stuff coming in. But you know, when I birdied 15, you know, I was one back, I think, I believe at that point. And you know, I knew one birdie, I would have to have one birdie because I think Scott was already in. So I had a good shot at it on 16. It was kind of a big breaking putt, and I just hit it a little too softly; and that putt on 17 and then 18.   
 So I had opportunities out there. I took advantage of something and had a chance. So I was pleased that I had an opportunity to win the golf tournament. You know, it's kind of funny how history repeats itself, unfortunately, in this case, but Eric, my caddie, Eric Shores, this is the first tournament he worked for me in '91, and we were in a three-way playoff and kind of had the same result. So unfortunately history repeated itself in that regard, but fortunately history repeated itself as well.   
  
  Q. Corey, do you feel like in a course that's 7000 yards or less, that you're as good as anybody in the world?  
 COREY PAVIN: Depends on if the holes are uphill or downhill. You know, I feel like I have an opportunity to compete. You know, this golf course just it doesn't favor any one style of play. Anybody can win on this golf course, and there's been a lot of different types of winners on this course with different lengths that they hit it.   
 Bubba's one of the longest hitters we have on TOUR and he won, and you can look at short hitters that have done well in the past. So it's just a golf course that fits my game. I feel comfortable on it.   
 You know, the greens are what I grew up on. So you know, I think there's a lot of things that favor me here. Par 70. There's only two par-5s, which is always a good thing for me. I like that.   
 And scoring, it's tough to get really low out here. You can have some good rounds, but it's hard to maintain it out here. So you don't have to shoot 6-under every round, 7-under every round to win out here.  
  
  Q. When do you expect to play on this TOUR again?  
 COREY PAVIN: I'm going to play the PGA Championship. That'll be my next event, and I don't know if it'll be my last one, but I guess that probably gave me some FedExCup points, I suppose. I don't know where I stand there, but you'll have to stay tuned to see if I play in the FedExCup. I'm sure you'll be on the edge of your seats. (Laughs).  
  
  Q. I heard you said you hit 3-wood on 18?  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Was a driver considered? Did you think about hitting driver?  
 COREY PAVIN: You know, it's not a comfortable tee shot for me. It was downwind today a little bit, and it was playing firm, and I just hit a bad 3-wood. But even on the 72nd, hole I didn't hit a very good 3-wood.   
 I figured it was probably about a 3-wood, 6-iron or 7-iron for me, and I actually wanted to hit first into the green anyway. So it was a good choice for me. I just didn't execute, so that was disappointing in that regard.  
  
  Q. You said the other day even if you won there was no chance you were going to play in the Ryder Cup. Do you still feel that way, if you'd won and played a few more events? Would you consider it?  
 COREY PAVIN: Well, it's all hypothetical now, isn't it, but no, I don't think I'd play. You know, it's -- being captain is pretty tough just to do that and not playing. I think Arnold was the last one to do that, and it was a different era, different time. But I wouldn't have played. I'll let the young guys do that.   
 DOUG MILNE: Anything else?   
  
  Q. I'm just curious, on 15 you were walking off the green and Bubba was walking off. You shared a laugh. What did you talk about?  
 COREY PAVIN: Well, there was a little altercation to the side of the green. I don't know if you saw it. And I'm not sure exactly what happened, but it almost -- a couple guys were almost fighting over there.   
 So I was just telling Bubba he missed it, you know. It wasn't fun, per se, but the guys were very upset at each other about something. I don't know what it was, but we were just having a bit of a laugh about it, and I was trying to tell Bubba that was what was taking so long for me to putt because I had to wait for that whole thing to kind of settle down over there.   
 DOUG MILNE: Okay? Thank you, Corey.   
 COREY PAVIN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT