TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. We were out there following you today, watching you work the golf ball around this golf course. Your comments on the round, sir.   
 COREY PAVIN: Well, thanks for following me. I appreciate that.   
 You know, I played okay today. I probably played a little more solidly yesterday, but I managed my game today, and you know, I wish I could have got that putt on the last hole, but I played well. You know, I played a nice couple days, and looking forward to the weekend.  
  
  Q. This golf course new. I know you have a long history here. There's a lot of nuance to this golf course. Seems as though you've got the riddle solved.   
 COREY PAVIN: You never solve the riddle of any golf course there is in this game, but I like the way the course sets up for me; and I have had some good rounds in the past, good tournaments, and hopefully I can play good this weekend and add to that list.   
  
  Q. I'd be remiss if I didn't talk to you about your playing partners out there today, too, Aaron Baddeley 4-under in his round Kevin Streelman 6-under in his round today. You guys really had it working.   
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, gosh, they played well. They both played pretty solid rounds of golf, and it's fun when you get in a group like that and everybody's playing pretty nicely, and it seems to just kind of flow and go easy. And conversation's pretty light. It's good stuff.  
  
  Q. Corey, good luck the rest of the way.  
  
  Q. (No microphone).  
 COREY PAVIN: It was a good day today. I think yesterday I played a little more solid round of golf, but I still managed my game very nicely today and made a couple key putts here and there, and it was a good day.  
  
  Q. The good news is you're tied for second. Bad news is you're five shots off the pace.   
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah. I woke up and looked at the computer and saw he birdied five for six, so yeah, he's playing well.   
 And you know, all I can do is control my own game, go out and play my game, and that's what I tried to do today. And there's a long way to go.  
  
  Q. How much fun are you having here?  
 COREY PAVIN: I try to have fun as much as I can wherever I am, but it's nice to play well. It seems like it's always easier to have fun when you're playing well.   
 You know, I'm enjoying it. You know, this is kind of a fun year for me with everything that's going on, and I want to enjoy all of it, and you know, this week's no different.  
  
  Q. Well, enjoy.   
 COREY PAVIN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT