TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2010
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Corey, every fairway and only two missed greens. 65 is what you do when that happens, right?
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I started to make a couple putts. I actually putted well. On one of the greens I missed I made about a 12-footer for par and didn't get that one up-and-down, but I made some nice birdie putts today, kind of medium-range putts, but I played solidly. It was a nice round.

 Q. You were contender here as recently as two years ago, you Top 10'd here. You like this place obviously. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah. I like it here. That's why I'm here this week and not at Endicott playing on the Champions Tour. 
 So it's an event I've always enjoyed. I have played well here in the past, and I've been close to winning. It would be quite nice to get over that hump.

 Q. Peter's won here, Brad's won here, Kenny last year, players in their 40s who have pushed the envelope a little bit. This is the kind of course seems like you have to learn, young players have to learn this. 
 COREY PAVIN: It's an old man's course.

 Q. It just takes experience. 
 COREY PAVIN: It's a golf course you can't really overpower, and in that regards it helps guys that are older and don't hit it as far, because it's not that important out here. 
 It's really important to hit the fairways, keep it in play, hit some nice shots into the greens and take a birdie when you can get it. And it's not a course generally where the scoring is tremendously low, but it can be, but you have to play smart golf here and play your own game.

 Q. You mentioned not playing the Champions Tour this week. What has that experience taken and what are you able to take from that back to this TOUR?
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I've enjoyed it. It's actually put me in a little bit more comfortable places to play. The golf courses out there are a little bit more like the course here in Hartford, so I can just play my own game. I don't have to try to do some things I'm not very comfortable doing. 
 So as a result I think my whole rhythm of my game and my swing has gotten better, and I've hit the ball a lot better this year. I don't think I'm trying to push the envelope with my own game, and that's helped me.

 Q. I have to ask you one quick Ryder Cup question. The Europeans have won the last three events out here on the TOUR. Are they just speaking too soon?
 COREY PAVIN: It doesn't matter how they're playing now. It matters how you're playing October 1st, 2nd and 3rd. I'd love for Team USA to win tournaments, and hopefully guys will play better as we get closer, but all it matters is how we play during the week of the Ryder Cup. 

 Q. Good luck. Corey Pavin keeps cherry-picking the courses that he knows he can play well on. 
 COREY PAVIN: Thanks, John. I love this golf course, and over the years I've played it okay, and that's why I'm here and not up north at another tournament. 

 Q. So 14 greens -- no, 16 greens, 14 fairways, so I guess that means you gotta work on the putting. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah. I gotta work on my putting obviously. I putted well today, actually made some good 10, 12-footers today, made one for par and obviously a few for birdie. 
 I didn't really hit it stiff today, but I made some really good kind of short putts that got my round going.

 Q. Earlier when you were 6-under, I said Corey's trying to make the Ryder Cup team. 
 COREY PAVIN: Am I supposed to respond to that? (Laughs).

 Q. You're playing well. 
 COREY PAVIN: Thank you. I appreciate it.

 Q. All right. Thanks for your time, man. Keep it up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT