PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2009
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. You played in '91 for the Ryder Cup. And I remember people back then saying that was the kind of course they would never play a stroke-play event at. Of course they're going there and doing it. What kind of memories do you have about it, and was it surprising to you that that would be a good venue for a PGA Championship?
 COREY PAVIN: I think the course has probably changed a little bit since then. That was quite a long time ago. So obviously I played the senior PGA there and very playable. 
 We had very unusual winds, very difficult. With those winds, it would be hard to hit, in August to get that kind of weather. But if PGA thinks it's a good venue, I'm sure it is.

 Q. Have you been back there since '91?
 COREY PAVIN: Haven't been there at all. I don't get out there that often. I heard it's a beautiful resort and it's changed a lot. Obviously Roger Warren is running the show there and I know him. But I haven't had a chance to get out there. I've heard it's spectacular.

 Q. One thing that obviously hasn't changed is the amount of space they have around the course. It was fairly constricted when you were there in '91. And PGA draws bigger crowds now than they did 19 years ago. Does the idea they can put 30 or 40,000 people there for a PGA, spread them out, is that kind of surprising? Do you think that's doable?
 COREY PAVIN: I think it's very doable. The Ryder Cup in '91 had to be 25, 30,000 people out there watching four groups play on Saturday and Sunday. So you schedule those people out a lot thinner spread when you have someone out there on every hole. 
 I think it's very doable. I remember it being difficult for people walking around there because of the sand and maybe they've made it a little easier and there will be bleachers up. Things are a lot different.
 I don't even know if there were bleachers up in '91. I can't remember. Now they'll be everywhere. So it will be much better viewing and I'm sure you can probably find some places to sit down and relax and watch a bunch of golf.

 Q. They've been talking about watching guys coming up, it's a long way away for you. And do already start watching some of the guys and thinking potential teams for Ryder Cup?
 COREY PAVIN: Not teams, per se, but I'm certainly watching the guys and what they do and how they perform, especially coming down the stretch in a tournament. 
 So I've been watching it ever since I was named captain. So it's something that I'll keep doing. And making my little pencil notes and when it comes time to pick four people I'll have to do that and I'll have a lot of notes in my head and I'll have to pick those four to complement the eight that are already there.

 Q. Want to talk about your round today? 
 COREY PAVIN: No (Laughter). It was tough. The wind was a little tough out there. Different direction. I didn't play as sharp today. I didn't drive the ball as well as I did the first few days. Makes it hard to score out there. Missed a couple little putts I wish I had over again. I'm pleased with my tournament. I played well all week. I'm a little disappointed I didn't play better today.

 Q. You have heard the cliche shorter hitters can't play longer courses. Even though today is not what you liked, the first three rounds and the week in general, is that feedback, too, again?
 COREY PAVIN: I guess. I never bought into that myself. So you still have to perform and you have to hit fairways and you have to hit greens and if you miss them you've got to get them up and down. So bottom line is scoring. If you can score, it doesn't matter how you play or what you do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT