THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 5, 2009
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously didn't turn out the way you'd hoped?
 COREY PAVIN: No. I actually didn't play very well my first ten holes. I think I hit one fairway, and short and crooked is a bad combination. 
 So it was tough. I played much better coming in, and I had a couple opportunities to make a putt or two and couldn't get them in. So looks like I'm probably going to miss by one, which I wanted to play the weekend, but we'll see. There's still a lot of golf to lay.

 Q. Is it doubly frustrating having played so beautifully last weekend? 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, it's always frustrating. I felt like I was playing fairly well last week and came in here and just didn't have very good rhythm all week. It's tough. Those things happen, and I'm old enough to understand that those things do happen. But it's disappointing. 

 Q. How valuable has the week been so far? 
 COREY PAVIN: It's been good. Obviously I've seen the golf course and some other things that I've had to take care of here, as well, so that's been successful. Two more rounds would be even more successful.

 Q. When you get back to America and players ask you about the golf course, what will you tell them?
 COREY PAVIN: I'll tell them it's a very fair course. Everything is in front of and you there are no tricks to this golf course. There's a few decisions that you have to make on a few holes but for the most part what you see is what you get out here.

 Q. Tell us about the reception you've been given by the Welsh fans. 
 COREY PAVIN: It's been very good. We were just talking about it on the ride back from the other side of the course; that I have not met anybody from Wales that has not been very, very nice. I'm not sure if there's a mean person in Wales.

 Q. Will you be back here next year to play The Wales Open and will you be bringing some of your team with you?
 COREY PAVIN: I don't know. I don't know if I'll play next year. I probably will but I have no idea at the moment. I don't know, the team, it's still pretty early in the team for who is going to be on the team, but I will encourage them to come over around the Open time. 

 Q. I didn't hear your answer, you are planning to come next year?
 COREY PAVIN: I don't know yet. I probably will, but I haven't made that decision yet. 

 Q. Are there any big holes, other impact holes, like for example the 18th on The Belfry on this course that might have that effect?
 COREY PAVIN: All of the holes coming in, especially 14, 15 and 18, I think are going to be pretty key holes. Obviously 16 and 17 will be key holes but there's a lot that can happen on 14, 15 and 18. 

 Q. What will you do for the next two days? 
 COREY PAVIN: I'm hoping I'm going to play but doesn't look that way. If I'm not playing, I'll probably go and do some touristy things, maybe go to the castle and just hang around here and have a lookabout. 

 Q. There are several castles. 
 COREY PAVIN: There's Cardiff. I know there are several castles but that's the only one I know off the top of my head. We'll go out and do the tourist thing if I miss the cut and look around and just hang out with the people. Sounds like I'm running for office or something, doesn't it. (Laughter).

 Q. How tough do you think this last hole will play if the weather is bad? 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, I think if the weather is bad, they are going to move the tees up so people can go for it. So I think no matter what happens, they will put the tees in the spot where you will be able to reach the green in two, because that's what you want to see on 18. 
 You want to see matches that are obviously very close to coming down on 18 and guys going for it, or making a decision if they should go for it or lay up. 

 Q. Have you asked your players to go and practice shots in shaved-down areas? Do you think the chaps are down at the local course trying to find an area that was shaved?
 COREY PAVIN: There are places in the States that we do have a lot of that. It's not uncommon. But the difference in the States and here is that usually the ground is a lot firmer here. We don't seem to have the firmness on the ground where you can skip the ball. 
 And I learned how to do that a long time ago when I played over here in Europe in '83. I got some lessons from European players when I was over here, so I'm going to have to give a few lessons to my players. 

 Q. Do you remember who?
 COREY PAVIN: I think Chris Moody was the one I worked with mostly. There's a name from the past. I remember actually working on it at Benson and Hedges on 18, the par 5 hole. I can remember that, but I can't remember taking out the trash; how's that? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT