THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 4, 2009
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on your play today? 
 COREY PAVIN: Probably what I deserved actually. I didn't play very sharp today, so it was just a day that wasn't as good as I'd like it to be. I didn't hit the ball as well. I didn't make any putts and probably got what I deserved.

 Q. When we chatted on Tuesday you were feeling jet-lagged; how are you feeling now?
 COREY PAVIN: I feel good. I just didn't perform as well as I would like to today and hopefully tomorrow I'll get a better round in.

 Q. Are you learning more about the course each round you play? 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, every time you play a golf course you see new things, and especially when you play under competition. So it's good to get out there today and tomorrow another day, and hopefully I'll be here on the weekend.

 Q. Does it examine every aspect of the game, this particular course?
 COREY PAVIN: It's pretty good. You know what, you have to drive the ball well here. If you miss the fairways, you're in big trouble and you have to hit some pretty good iron shots. There are some tucked pins out here, and if you miss the greens, you have some not necessarily tough up-and-downs, if you've thought it out properly, but you can get some very hard wind out here.

 Q. Captain Monty has the chance to set the course up the way he would like to do it to favor the Europeans, is there much he can do here?
 COREY PAVIN: Well, he'll do whatever he thinks is best for The European Team. You know, there's things to do. I know he's going to shave some areas around the green, maybe more than what it is now. I think Europeans are probably more proficient at bumping and running it up the hills off fairway-type grass, but maybe I'll have my guys practice that a little bit. 

 Q. What are your thoughts after that round? 
 COREY PAVIN: That I need to play better than I did today. I wasn't real pleased with the way I played. It was just, everything was just a little bit off today. I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in and I suspect tomorrow morning the greens will be a little bit better and hopefully those putts that I hit well will go in. 

 Q. The greens were a little bumpy this afternoon?
 COREY PAVIN: Just a little bit. The greens are always good in the afternoon. Doesn't matter where you are. So I hit a lot of good putts, and I at least executed those well today, so hopefully tomorrow they will go in.

 Q. Wearing your captain's hat, if that's possible after playing individually, what are your thoughts on the course now that you've played on it competitively?
 COREY PAVIN: Pretty much the same. I didn't see a whole lot new out there today. But it just an important golf course to hit the ball in the fairway. That's very critical here. If you don't do that, it's very hard to hit into these greens.
 But if you do drive the ball well, you can attack some pins here, and you know, the course is firm right now. I'm not sure it will be that way in 16 months, but it just tests everything out here. It's a very good, solid test of your game.

 Q. When you're competing, are you able to allow your mind to think as the American Ryder Cup Captain and perhaps second-guess what Monty might be thinking in terms of set up and that kind of thing?
 COREY PAVIN: No, I really don't. When I'm out there playing, I'm just playing the golf course and trying to do what I can do in the tournament. You know, later on or maybe even next week, I'll sit down and really think about certain things and how that might affect my team. 

 Q. 15 obviously cost you. What happened there?
 COREY PAVIN: A very bad drive off the tee. I just really didn't feel comfortable hitting the ball today. I just never got in a good rhythm and just got on that tee and just blocked one way right. Nobody could find it. They probably were not looking that far back, I think is the problem.

 Q. When is the last time you lost a ball in a competitive round?
 COREY PAVIN: You mean not in the water? Yeah, I don't know, it's been a long time actually. I don't know when the last time was. 

 Q. Still had not been found after you got back to the tee and went back to the area?
 COREY PAVIN: Never was spotted. As I say I think people were looking for it further up than where it really was, because I hit it pretty poorly. 

 Q. Is it one of those risk/reward holes, because obviously it's driveable or you've got the option of laying up, haven't you. Is it a classic match-play hole in that sense? 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I think, gosh, almost everybody is going to be going for that, unless there's a huge wind in your face there. It's just not that long of a 4-par to the front edge of a green. 
 But if you do hit it right, there's a lot of trouble there, long grass, and if you hit it way left, then you hit it in the water. But it's not a horribly hard shot, but I made it look pretty hard today. 

 Q. Obviously you want to beat everybody's score, but will it be good to beat Monty's score? 
 COREY PAVIN: Oh, I don't really care about that. I just want to play the best I can. My concern right now is to make sure I'm here on the weekend. I don't know where there's going to end up today but I know I need to play a lot better tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT