HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2009
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I'm sure you heard the news about Phil and his wife and him having to pull out. Can you just comment on that?
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, obviously our thoughts and prayers are with Amy and Phil and their whole family, all the kids. All I've heard is that she has breast cancer, I believe, is that correct, and I don't know how bad it is. Obviously it's not good, but hopefully they caught it very early. But I don't know any details besides that he said he's going to take the rest of the year off is what I heard. Or it's just on hold, I guess. I don't know what statement has been made. We hear things out here and it's through a lot of different people. 
 All I know is that Amy is in our thoughts and prayers. Certainly Lisa and I send our thoughts and prayers with the Mickelsons and hopefully they caught it early and they can get it taken care of right away.

 Q. Do you know them fairly well?
 COREY PAVIN: You know, fairly well, yeah. I'll give him a call here in a little bit for sure.

 Q. The story we're doing in a few days is about finishing on Sundays. Do you prefer being maybe ahead by a stroke or two, or do you like chasing the leaders on Sunday? Do you have a preference?
 COREY PAVIN: I always like to be ahead. It's always been an interesting question, but to me I'd rather be ahead and have shots in hand so that if I make mistakes I'm still right there. If you're behind and make mistakes, you fall further behind. Obviously the flip is that when you're chasing, you're chasing and being more aggressive. But if you're leading, hopefully you've had enough experience that you know how to manage your game and hopefully maintain your lead or expand it.

 Q. Is there any thought process to I don't want to be too cautious if I have a lead or do you just get it out of your head?
 COREY PAVIN: No, you're right. You have to find that happy ground of whether you should be aggressive here or you should be conservative. You have a lead, you don't want to mess it up, but you don't want to be too cautious. You have to balance all that, and each player is different with how they go about that. Some players are aggressive by nature and they just stay aggressive. Other players are -- I'm probably a little bit more on the conservative side. I would try to stay away from mistakes and let other people have to do things to catch me. So I like to play hard golf courses and be in contention on hard golf courses for that reason. It's harder to catch me on a hard golf course than it is on an easy golf course.

 Q. You're basically one stroke away from having won every event in Texas. That's really cool. I'm wondering, what happened -- when you finished second here, I guess the last time --
 COREY PAVIN: Did I finish second twice? Yeah, Nick one by three or four, I think.

 Q. Last time do you remember the circumstances, like the final day?
 COREY PAVIN: Was it last time when Scott won, Simpson? Yeah, and I think there was a bunch of us that tied for second. I'm not sure which year that was, early '90s, '93? I remember finishing fairly early, and I actually remember Scott having a difficult time finishing that day, and I think he made a pretty good par putt on the last hole. I want to say it was more than five feet and maybe less than ten. But I remember he had to make a putt to win outright or it was going to be a big playoff. 
 I just have it in the back of my mind, I just kind of remember thinking that I wasn't going to win because he had a three-shot lead with maybe four or five holes to play and he made a couple bogeys coming in, and all of a sudden I had a chance. 
 But the year I finished second, I think when Nick Price won, I want to say in '92 or '91 maybe, somewhere around there --

 Q. '92. 
 COREY PAVIN: '92, okay, sounds about right. I think he won by three or four. I think we were playing together -- maybe we played on Saturday. But I just thought he was going to be pretty tough to catch, and he kind of won going away. 
 But I wish I had won this thing. I have one more chance basically this year. I'm not sure if I'll be playing in the future since I'm going to be 50 soon. So this is my last chance. I'd love to do it. As you said, I've won all the other Texas tournaments and have been close here, but no cigar so far. 

 Q. It obviously didn't hurt the Ryder Cup team last year not to have Tiger. What are your thoughts if you went in without Phil this year? 
 COREY PAVIN: Well, it would be next year, so it's quite a ways away, but my thoughts are I want to have the best players on the team, period. Hopefully everybody will be available at that time, but that's a long time from now. There will be a Presidents Cup this year. 

 Q. The tournament is a month later this year, growing season for this course, has that helped it a lot?
 COREY PAVIN: Well, the course is in great shape. I remember the greens last year, I mean, they were newer obviously last year, and I don't remember it being as full and fast as they are this year. The fairways are beautiful. I know last year they overseeded them, a tremendous amount of overseed, and this year they didn't have to, and the fairways are beautiful. They're perfect. It's extra time, and it all depends on the weather. 
 We've played here this time of year before, and fairways can be tough if you've overseeded and it doesn't transition properly, and the reverse if it was cold, these fairways wouldn't have sprouted out with the Bermuda. Obviously the weather has been very good and cooperative, and the course is in beautiful shape. 
 DOUG MILNE: Corey, thanks for coming in, best of luck this week. We appreciate your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT