VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 14, 2009
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Corey, well played. This golf course really suits you well. 
 COREY PAVIN: Thank you. I like this golf course. You have a lot of shapes, and distance is another big factor out there. 
 Hitting the ball on the fairways is important, and the greens are a little tricky. When the wind's blowing a little bit, that favors me as well. Obviously you have to control your shots.
 I think I've had some success here, and I like coming to San Antonio. I've got a few friends here, so it's fun to come over here. 

 Q. I saw the old Bullseye in your bag, too. That's been in and out of the garage a couple of times. Obviously treated you well in the opening round?
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, it did. It's been in the bag for maybe about a year and a few months now. Took about maybe a 10, 11-year hiatus, but it's back in there. 
 I've been putting okay. I putted well last year and this year not quite as well. I'm trying to figure that out. I'm a very good friend of Tommy. 

 Q. Take a look at your bag, and the emblem's right there on it, "Ryder Cup Captain." Have to be very proud. How much has that been in your thought process this year?
 COREY PAVIN: You know, I wouldn't say it's quite in the back of my mind. It's more in the forefront than that, but I'm just watching a lot of golf on TV, keeping my eye on some of the younger players I haven't seen play much. Try to play practice round with them once in a while, that type of thing, just keeping my eye on what the trends are and what the guys are doing, but for the most part, I think it's going to be helping me next year. But I think doing some due diligence this year is not a bad idea. 

 Q. The Texas swing has been good for you, playing well at the Valero Texas Open. Colonial has always been one of your favorite tournaments as well. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah. Colonial is probably my favorite tournament of all, and I've done well in a lot of Texas tournaments. 
 I like playing here for whatever reason, maybe the firm ground, a little wind. I like that type of setup, so it's been good for my game over the years.

 Q. Well played. 
 COREY PAVIN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT