U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2013
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Corey Pavin shot a 3 under par, 67 and finishes the Championship at 7 under par.  
   
 Q.   Quite the birdie run you had in the middle of the round?   
COREY PAVIN:   Yeah, it was nice.   I missed a short putt on 6.   It was a hard putt for birdie, and then birdied 7, 8, 9, 10, 11.   I needed to birdie 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, apparently.   Kenny is just playing fantastic.   Hat's off to him.   Hard to catch a guy that's shooting a score like that.  
I was pleased with the run in the middle.   Not the best start in the world, but pulled it together, and I have had a good, solid day today.  
   
 Q.   When and how did you have a sense that Kenny was going low?   
COREY PAVIN:   As I kept looking at the board and it kept going lower and lower.   I think‑‑ I noticed it right away, but 11 and 12, when I was playing those holes, I played 12, and he birdied 11.   
And I asked one of the guys walking with us if that putt was‑‑ what that putt was for.   He said it was for birdie.   I was like, wow, when he gets going, he's really tough to catch.   He's powerful, hits a long way, and makes a lot of putts when he gets it going.   He shoots scores like he's shooting now, and it's pretty tough to keep up with him.  
   
 Q.   Corey, you were in the hunt, not hitting it very far, obviously.   What's that say about your tenacity, your shot‑making?   
COREY PAVIN:   I guess Johnny said that, right?   That's how you know that?   I gave him a little grief this morning.   He said I hit it 240 yesterday.   I said come on, Johnny, I hit it at least 245.  
That's just the way I play.   I don't really think about it much anymore.   There's a while, 20, 30‑‑ here's a guy who's trying to hit it further.   That didn't work out very well.   Just stick with what I got, and that's what I have.  
So I don't really sit around the hotel room or at home thinking about that I wish I hit it further.   I do wish I hit it further, but that's just the way I play.   I just have to work my way around the golf course the best way I can and hopefully make some putts and get on runs like I did today.   
Hopefully, a guy like Kenny Perry is not shooting such a low score, that I might have a chance.   But that's the game of golf.   All I can do is control what I do.   
I was pleased with the way I played most every day this week.   I'd like to have Friday back, but I played really well on the weekend.   I was really pleased with that.  
   
 Q.   You own the 8th hole now, birdie, birdie.   
COREY PAVIN:   Birdie, birdie on 8.   I think it's actually eagle, eagle.   I know it says 4 on the card, but it's 5 for me.   That was a big bonus for me to birdie that hole.  
   
 Q.   Corey, everyone is saying the fans are great, the course is great.   What's your thoughts?   
COREY PAVIN:   You can say it.   No, it's, you know, Omaha has been spectacular.   The fans have been out in droves, very appreciative and vocal.   It's really a great place to play.   I spent a bit of time in Des Moines too, and I know it was in Des Moines in '03, and I think it was a very similar situation.   There's not many golf tournaments that come here.   I know the Web.com has a tournament here.   
It's nice to come to a place and have 25,000, 30,000 people watching us.   It's enjoyable for me.   I get a big kick out of having a lot of people watch.   I think the whole city was behind it.   
I wouldn't be surprised if we're back here in six, seven, eight years, something like that, the rotation.  
   
 Q.   The atmosphere this week, kind of maybe exceed your expectations coming into the Tournament?   
COREY PAVIN:   I heard they were sold out.   I'd heard about Des Moines before, and it was very similar.   Obviously, it's only two hours away.   I expected a lot of people out here.   
Course is in fabulous shape.   The superintendent did a great job with this heat as well.   USGA did a good job running the tournament.  
My hat's off.   Everything was very good except for I finished third instead of first.   But that's personal.   We good?   Okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT