PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 11, 2009
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Corey Pavin, thanks for spending a few minutes with us. Got a chance to take a look at the course out here. It this your first time in Puerto Rico?   
 COREY PAVIN: First time in the tournament. I've been here on vacation, but never to play golf. The golf course is very nice. I heard a lot about it last year, and thought I would come here and check it out myself.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Very good. Questions?   
  
  Q. This is your first time in Puerto Rico playing in this tournament. How do you see the campus?  
 COREY PAVIN: Well, the golf course is very nice I think. It's in great shape. We played down in Mexico go couple weeks ago on paspalum grass as well. I like it.   
 I think the golf course is nice. I like it. I think it suits my game as well. I like that there's a little bit of wind blowing as well.   
 The resort is very nice as well. It's just nice to be all here in one spot and be able to play.   
  
  Q. Recently you were announced as the captain for the Ryder Cup. How difficult is playing and be watching some candidates.  
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, well, you know, it's a long time from now still. It's still -- I don't know how many months away it is, 18 months away or so. So it's not in the forefront of my mind. I kind of keep an eye on some of the younger players and watch them a little bit and guys that I'm not as familiar with.  
 But when I'm playing in the tournament, you know, I'm playing. If I have a chance to watch them on TV or talk to some of the younger players, I will just to get to know them just in case they play well and make the team.   
 So there's not a lot to do right now with it. Always in the back of my mind I'm thinking about things.   
  
  Q. How many automatically qualify?  
 COREY PAVIN: Eight.   
  
  Q. What's the name of the eight?  
 COREY PAVIN: Well, we won't know until next year, you know. Qualifying is from January 1st, in essence, to the PGA Championship. There's also points for the majors this year.  
  
  Q. What kind of players do you think will make the team?  
 COREY PAVIN: You know, anybody playing could, I suppose. You know, it's so far away from now, you know, when the Ryder Cup is. Guys that maybe you've never even heard of could come out and start playing well and win tournaments and finish high and get a lot of points next year.   
 So I'm not discounting anybody as a possibility of making the team right now.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: How would you assess your year so far, and what are your expectations for this week?   
 COREY PAVIN: Well, my year hadn't been what I wanted it. I think I missed the first five cuts of the year. I did well in Mexico and finished 15th, so I felt a little bit better about the way I played a couple weeks ago. I'm hoping to keep playing better this week. You know, I'd just like to definitely play a better level than I have this year.   
 I played okay last year, and I'd just like to get my game in a little better shape now than it has been.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT