BUICK OPEN
June 26, 2008
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Corey Pavin, thanks for joining us in the interview room here at the Buick Open after a great opening round 64 out there.   
 Nice birdie on 18, puts a good taste in your mouth. This is really some good play continued from the end of last week. You finished the Travelers championship with 64, tied for 10th. Obviously the momentum has carried over.   
 COREY PAVIN: I agree. Ditto. Can you quote him for me? It was nice last week. I played well last week. Last round I played well, shot 6-under, 64. Same score here, 64 8-under here. I played nicely today. My putter was working rather well. I just made some really nice mid-range putts today and one kind of bombed. But I was in position and hit most of the fairways. So it was good. Good day.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. Why didn't you shoot 63?  
 COREY PAVIN: Well, because I 2-putted 17. I missed my 50-footer on 17.  
  
  Q. Talk about your putter; you must be one of the few players out here still putting with a Bulls Eye. I know it goes way back 1984. And talk a little bit about that.   
 COREY PAVIN: It's a putter I got in 1984, brand new. And I started using it then. I used it for quite a while. Probably up until about the middle of '95. And then it took a break until last year. So it was on the bench for over a decade, basically.  
 And I brought it back out. I thought I'd try it. And it's been working pretty good since then. So so far so good. So I will just keep using it.  
  
  Q. Did you use it in Milwaukee?  
 COREY PAVIN: I did not use it in Milwaukee. It came out, I think, maybe March of last year is when I brought it back out.  
  
  Q. (Question off Microphone)  
 COREY PAVIN: I don't think I am. I think Bob Estes might. There might be someone out there. Very few. It's very high technology, that Bulls Eye. So try to keep it quiet, will yeah?   
  
  Q. (Question off Microphone)  
 COREY PAVIN: I'm not sure it's all about length. But length helps. It always has. It's nothing new. If you can hit it long and straight you're better off than hitting it shorter and straight.   
 So all I try to do is play my own game. I can't do anything else. I can't hit it any further than I do now. I've tried and I've worked on it. And I just try to play within myself and hit the ball in the fairway and try knocking on the green and maybe if I can make up for it in chipping and putting, that's fine.  
 But all I can do is what I can do and hopefully at the end of the day that's good enough.   
  
  Q. (Question off Microphone)  
 COREY PAVIN: Today? Well, I hit a tree on No. 2 and hit a 5-wood there. I hit a rescue into 18. Hit a rescue on 8, par 3. So probably rescue is the real answer. Is that a good answer? It's a rescue 4. 22 degree. Replaces my 3-iron 2 or 3-iron.  
  
  Q. (Question off Microphone)  
 COREY PAVIN: Doesn't hurt to hit it long here. The par 5s are -- that length, it's hard for me to reach in, too, but everybody else can. That's kind of a tricky thing for me here where there's four par 5s on a golf course. I always prefer a par 70 golf course. Because that takes the length out of the equation a little bit. But I hit it just in front of 16 and 2 today. I had a little chip just from five, eight yards short of the green. I had a couple good ones there.  
 So that's why I'm saying that's kind of the way I have to make up for it. On a par 5, I have to hit a good sand wedge up there and I have a six, seven-footer hopefully and knock it in.  
  
  Q. Eight birdies, go through your birdies.   
 COREY PAVIN: That's good to remind me. At my age I need a reminder and maybe glasses, too. Let's see, No. 5 I hit a driver and a 6-iron on the right fringe. Not sure how long that putt was, but it was about 40 feet. Made that putt.  
 And No. 7, par 5, I hit driver, 3-wood. Had I think about 50 yards to the hole, hit it about 12 feet down to the hole to make the putt for birdie. 8, hit a rescue club, like I said earlier, on the fringe about 15 feet away and made that.  
 9, I hit driver 7-iron about 10 feet and made that. 11, par 3, I hit a 4-iron, about 15 feet and made that. And 12 hit driver and wedge, maybe, I don't know, it was maybe 22, 23 feet, made that putt.  
 16, I hit a driver just short of the green and chipped it up for a tap-in for birdie. And then 18 I hit driver rescue on the back fringe about 20 feet and made that for birdie.   
  
  Q. With this being a Ryder Cup year and the new point system, whenever you start playing well like you are now, does that start creeping into your mind, maybe getting on that team?   
 COREY PAVIN: Not right now. I'm pretty far back on the list. I'm not sure where I am. I guess 60th or something like that, or 50th.  
 So I've got a long way to go to get there. If I won a tournament or something, certainly jump me up a long way. But I don't think about it too much. If something happened great, then I'd think about it a lot more but not now.  
  
  Q. What are your goals career-wise? Yesterday Kenny Perry said, speaking with Fred Funk, he's not even going to play the Seniors Champions Tour next year, just stay on the regular Tour. Looking ahead, how do you see your career?  
 COREY PAVIN: I'm going to evaluate it when I turn 50. I turn 50 in November next year. And I'll look at it and see what I want to do. And right now I'd be leaning towards playing on the Champions Tour a lot and come out here and play certain events if I can that I like, that I like to play that are good for my game. That's kind of my general thinking right now. It can change. But that's kind of where I'm at at the moment.  
 I reserve the right to change my opinion, though (laughter).  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT