TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2007
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COREY PAVIN:  ...control your shots over the greens.  All in all it's pretty difficult to control your golf ball.  The greens are firming up a little bit, and there's a few putts you can get up there pretty darn quick because they're drying up a little.  It's all good stuff out there, but it's tough.   
 Like I said yesterday, you have to be patient and if you make a birdie, great, and pars are fine out there.   
  
  Q.  You hit your bag a couple of times after 18.  Was it just that hole, or did you feel you left a couple of shots out there on the course?   
 COREY PAVIN:  I was just mad on 18.  I hit the first putt too hard.  And actually the second putt, I pushed it a little bit.  I thought it was going to break a little left, but it didn't, just kind of ran over the right edge.  I was disappointed with a bogey on the last hole, but all in all, I was very pleased with the day.   
  
  Q.  Do you remember it ever being this windy?   
 COREY PAVIN: I remember one year playing 11 and I was driving with a long iron because it was so windy.  It gets breezy here every once in a while.  And when it does, going under par is a good thing out here.   
  
  Q.  Corey, I know you feel like you left some putts out there today, but still you have to be happy with a minus four.   
 COREY PAVIN: Yes, I'm pleased.  I wanted to birdie the last hole, but I made a few putts out there for par, and it all evens out.  I'm pleased with the day.  4 under with the wind blowing at a TPC is pretty good.   
  
  Q.  13 out of 15 putts you've made here.  Is there something about this course that you like?  Do you always try to make this into your schedule every year?   
 COREY PAVIN:  Yes, I like the golf course a lot.  I think for whatever reason, you don't really have to hit long out here.  You have to hit crisp iron shots over these greens.  It plays hard, and on a day like that it's all amplified.  It was a good day for me, and I wouldn't mind seeing the wind keep blowing.   
  
  Q.  You have guys on tour that are hitting balls 300 yards all the time.   
 COREY PAVIN: I'm not one of them.   
  
  Q.  Is it hard when you're not one of those big hitters to stay competitive as you have?   
 COREY PAVIN: It's not hard.  I've dealt with it my whole career.  I'm a relatively short hitter.  I just play my own game, do my own thing, and hopefully I can get up on the leaderboard at some point in time.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT