U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2013
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Corey Pavin shot a 6 under par 64, which is currently the lowest round of the day, and he's 4 under for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   Bogey‑free, 64.   
COREY PAVIN:   True.   True/false questions today, correct?   Yes or no, true or false?  
   
 Q.   That's all there is.   
COREY PAVIN:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about that a little bit.   
COREY PAVIN:   It was a very different day from yesterday.   I really struggled yesterday.   I went out on the range and worked on it.   Found a little key to help me with my swing.   
I hit it better today, played smarter.   When I did hit a bad shot, I made some good up and downs.   It was just a nice, solid round.   I think I made one kind of long putt, and the rest of it was pretty solid.  
   
 Q.   Corey, did you notice anything different today about the course, the conditions, than the first two days?   
COREY PAVIN:   I thought today was pretty much the same.   I thought yesterday the pins were pretty hard.   I think they were good today, but I think there was a few more accessible pins today so I think it played probably a little easier with the pin placements.  
As far as the condition, the fairways are firm.   They're starting to run out a lot more, which is a good thing for me.   And the greens are still pretty much about the same.   They're holding a good shot, but out of the rough, they're going to run like crazy.  
   
 Q.   How much time did you spend on the range yesterday afternoon?   
COREY PAVIN:   It was probably about, you know, 30 to 45 minutes, which is plenty of time out here in 92 degree heat or whatever.  
I was just looking for something and found a little something that helped, and I'll go back out and keep working on it.  
   
 Q.   How much better do you sleep when you know you've picked the lock on something out there to help you?   
COREY PAVIN:   I don't know.   I don't sleep all that great anyway.   So I think it's an age thing.   But I slept okay last night.   I wasn't‑‑ I'm not one to lose sleep no matter what position I'm in or how I'm playing.  
What happens on the course is on the course.   Once I leave, it's sort of a different person in a way.  
   
 Q.   3 under on the back nine.   A lot of talk has been if you can attack that half of the course, why were you able to go low on that back nine?   
COREY PAVIN:   Yeah, I don't know.   I never really thought about the nines that way.   But I birdied 11.   12 was one of those spins that's accessible with a good shot.   It funnels down towards the hole.   If you don't hit a good shot, it's a hard hole.   I birdied the par 5.   
The other holes, a few up and downs, hung in there on a couple holes.   I don't really think about the course that way.   I may think about a hard 4 par, just to make a par is great and attack kind of the shorter holes.   Other than that, I don't really think of the golf course in that manner.  
   
 Q.   What was the key or the tweak that you made to your swing?   
COREY PAVIN:   You know, I've been working on trying to get the club more inside.   I've been doing that for about 40 years now, and I'm still working on it.   So I was kidding a little bit outside.   I wasn't turning as well as I should.   
So I was just basically trying to make my initial move a little bit more inside with the club head.   There's different ways for me to do it, and I always try different kind of ideas.   Yesterday was a little bit different type of one, and it seemed to work today.   
Keep my fingers crossed and hopefully it will work tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Did that just give you a more solid strike, if anything else?   
COREY PAVIN:   Yeah, for me, if I can just hit the ball solidly, that's so important for me.   Because when I'm hitting the ball flush, then my swing playing is a little bit better.   That's always been a big key for me.   If I'm mis‑hitting it a little bit, I'm in big trouble, like yesterday.  
   
 Q.   Can you recount the birdies, starting at 5, where you birdied the par 3?   Just give us that.   
COREY PAVIN:   Yeah, 5 again was one of those accessible pins.   I hit a 5 iron out to the right, and it came off the slope and nearly went in.   I had a, you know, one‑inch putt or something.   I finally made one from one inch.  
Par 5, hit a good drive, and I pulled my 5 wood left of the left bunker in a really bad lie.   I hit a very good pitch shot over the bunker on the ridge and hit it up there about five feet and made that putt for birdie.  
Short 4 par, No. 8, I hit driver, 3 wood about eight feet right of the hole and made it.   That was a big bonus birdieing 8.   That was the first day I could reach it in two.   So that was nice.  
And then 11, I hit a 6 iron up there about 25 feet and made it.   That was my long putt today.  
12, I hit driver, 5 iron about seven, eight feet left of the hole and made that putt.  
   
 Q.   14?  
COREY PAVIN:   The par 5, was it 14?   I hit a good drive and tried to go for the green.   I hit a 3 wood right, which was not a good spot to be, but I drew a good lie in the rough and hit a really good pitch about seven, eight feet behind the hole.   That was about the best I could do, and I made that putt.  
   
 Q.   You played a whale of a round.   Did you think you left any shots out there maybe the first four holes?   
COREY PAVIN:   I'm a professional golfer.   What do you think?   We always think we leave shots out there.   But very pleased with the round.  
   
 Q.   You were runner‑up last year in Michigan.   I don't know if this round gives you any thoughts of‑‑ obviously, depends on what other guys are doing.   But at least give you some thought if you did it again‑‑  
COREY PAVIN:   Yeah, you never know what can happen.   When the USGA sets up the golf course, funny things can happen on Sunday.   I've seen it time and time again.   Sometimes it happens, sometimes it doesn't where guys come back.  
Probably going to need a little help, but we'll see what happens out there with how Michael plays.   If Michael plays well today and good tomorrow, he's going to win.  
But nevertheless, I could just play the best I can, and that's all I can do.  
   
 Q.   Tell us how tough it is out here on the Senior Tour after all those years you were on the regular tour?   
COREY PAVIN:   I think it's very tough out here.   Until I won in Boca last year, I had a better chance to win after I was 50 on the regular Tour than I did on the Champions Tour.   
The thing that's hard about here on the Champions Tour is that most of the guys have won a lot of tournaments.   So you don't see a lot of backing up on Sunday, at least not in the regular events.   So it's‑‑ to win a tournament out here, you have to go out and win the tournament.   You can't really let, you know‑‑ guys aren't going to back up, and you're going to fall into it, back door into winning the tournament.   So it makes it very difficult to win out here.   
The competition is tough.   We're all friends.   We've known each other a long time.   Once we get out there on the golf course, we all know what we're trying to do, and that's to win.  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
COREY PAVIN:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT