BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2005
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COREY PAVIN:  I made some shots out of the bunker and holed two putts from 40, 45 feet.  I need to work on my hitting game a little bit.  I'll do that after I talk to you guys.  It was good to score well, and that's the main thing, doesn't matter how you hit it or put it, just what it adds up to.
Q.  Talk about the eighth hole?
COREY PAVIN:  Yeah, I hit a real good shot in there on the par 3, a 6 iron about seven, eight feet or so.  Nice, solid birdie there.
Q.  How was the back side, was the main problem the greens?
COREY PAVIN:  I hit two bad drives.  I hit a bad drive on 12 and I hit a bad drive on 14, and those led directly to the bogey.
Q.  You've had some great rounds in the past, what's the mindset going into tomorrow?
COREY PAVIN:  Just go out there and play the best I can and see where I end up.  Justin is playing really good.  I'm not going to try to force anything out there tomorrow.  Just going to go play and see what I get.
Q.  On No. 10, you got a little help from the trees on the left, can you explain your approach shot and what did you hit going into the greens?
COREY PAVIN:  Well, I pulled my tee shot there and hit the trees.  Luckily it kicked down to the right in the fairway.  The tree that was in the fairway was overhanging, and I had maybe 205 or so.  My only shot was to hit a real low 4 iron and just let it run all the way up there.

Fortunately I executed the shot well and hit a low, burning 4 iron and hit it right to the middle of the green and had a chance for birdie.
Q.  What did you hit on the approach to 18?
COREY PAVIN:  I had to hit a 5 wood into 18.  I hit a 3 wood off that tee and popped it up.  It was not the shot I intended to hit off the 18th tee, but I hit a real good second shot in there.  Actually if I hit my putt a little bit harder, I would have made it.
Q.  What do you have to do tomorrow?
COREY PAVIN:  Probably shoot better tomorrow.  I played all right the last day last year.  I think I was tied for the lead with about six or seven holes to play.
Q.  Inaudible?
COREY PAVIN:  I think when you do that, it makes a lot of problems, and I try never to do that.  I need to go out there and just play my game and if Justin or other guys come back or I catch up to them, I'll play it by ear then.
Q.  As far as playing your game, this is one of the shortest courses on Tour, do you feel that helps you?
COREY PAVIN:  I don't think it hurts me, put it that way.
Q.  And you do have to shape shots into these greens.
COREY PAVIN:  Yeah, there's a lot of thinking out here.  It's a great thinker's course, a good iron play course.  You have to hit clean shots into the greens.  It's the kind of course that the scores are never really that low.  A lot of times 10 under or higher wins the tournament, so I like that as well.
Q.  Were the winds and dry conditions a factor?
COREY PAVIN:  It has an impact everywhere out there.  I think the back nine, you get on a stretch there, 12, 13, 14 are pretty tricky holes.  Especially I think they are all tricky, but that's a stretch that you have to play well I think out here to do well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT