BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2004
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAURY LIVSEY:  Corey Pavin, thanks for coming in and joining us for a little talk today.
COREY PAVIN:  My pleasure.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Third time you've been in there, and you continue to play well.  Talk about your day a little.
COREY PAVIN:  It was an interesting day today.  Obviously it was really humid today.  Obviously that was a big battle.  There was a lot of sweating going on.  It was pretty warm.  I just tried to pace myself today and drink a lot of water and not try to get too excited with all the heat that's out there.

I had a weird day, a little up and down here and there, a difference probably from yesterday to today is I just made some putts.  I came in here yesterday and told you I didn't really make anything.  Today a made a few putts.  Really that was the difference between my scoring yesterday and today.

I was pleased with the way I played.  I hit a lot of good shots, hit a lot of good putts.  It was just generally a pretty good day as far as I was concerned.
Q.   It seemed like you struggled a little bit with the driver on 4 and 5.  Can you talk a little bit about that and how you were able to fight through that?
COREY PAVIN:  Yeah, 3 and 4.  I hit some drives that cost me a couple shots.  That's something I've worked really hard on is my driving game, and after that I actually drove the ball pretty good, I think.  I'm not sure if I missed a fairway after that.  Do you know?  I'm trying to think about.  Yeah, I missed 9, that's right.  I hit a couple bad tee shots there.  You're going to hit some bad shots once in a while.  You just have to let them kind of slip right on through the brain and not absorb them too much and go out and just swing as good as you can on the next one.  That's what I tried to do today and be a little mentally tough about it, and I played fine after that.
Q.   Speaking of mentally tough, there's so many guys logjammed in here.  Do you have any thoughts on what anybody is going to have to do tomorrow on a course like this?
COREY PAVIN:  Well, it's going to be interesting, I think.  As you said, there's a lot of people right up there, and someone that's back, gosh, maybe at 3 under or something could actually win the tournament, maybe even 2 under, who knows.  But I think that's what's intriguing about this golf course and that's why it's fun to play golf courses like this.  On paper it looks like it shouldn't be that hard a golf course, but it's tough to score on.  There's good pin placements, the greens are designed very nicely, it's a very fair golf course.  It shows you you don't have to have a really long golf course to have scores that are up there, that are high.  The weather has been fantastic.  There's been just a little breeze.  It's not like it's been windy or rainy or anything.  It's nice to see.

But as far as tomorrow goes, I'm not going to do anything different.  I'm just going to go play and see where I end up.  I'm not going to force anything.  I'm going to pick my spots where I want to be aggressive and where I want to be intelligent out there.  I hope that answers your question.  I kind of forgot the question (laughter).
Q.   I know there aren't any golfers in the Top 25 money winners of this year here, but a lot of the guys on the leaderboard are in their 40s.  What does that say about golfers in their 40s that can still be competitive?
COREY PAVIN:  I know golfers in their 40s can still be competitive.  I've seen a lot of it in the last couple of years.  I think that has a lot to say about the golf course this week more than anything.  We've got a golf course that requires a lot of intelligent play.  You have to work your way around the golf course and think your way around this golf course.  You just can't get up there and kill it off the tee and hit at every pin because if you do, you're going to have some high scores.  That's what I think is so nice about playing here.
Q.   You've had success here before, you've been on the leaderboard here before, and Eric has talked about it, too, your caddie.  What is it about this place, 91, 94, good things always seem to     you do well here.
COREY PAVIN:  I like the golf course, no doubt about that.  I enjoy it.  It kind of goes back to what I was saying the last question.  It's a thinking man's golf course.  You don't have to hit it a long way here to do well.  The conditions on the golf course are pretty good right now.  The fairways are running a little fast and the greens are firming up a little bit.  It requires a lot of imagination with your shot making out here, and I like that.  You know, 91, 93 and 94 I guess it was I played here.  I was playing well anywhere those years, so I don't think it mattered too much then, but as far as this course goes, I just like it.  It's a fairly comfortable golf course for me.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Your card, you started out with a birdie on No.  2.
COREY PAVIN:  Yeah, 2, I hit a 3 wood and a little 9 iron about ten feet, made the putt.

3, I drove it in the right rough, had to hack it out, had a horrible lie and hit it in the left rough and still had about 85 yards for a sand wedge, hit it about 20 feet, two putted for bogey.

Drove it right on 4 in the bunker, hit it out over the trees, short about 40 yards short of the green and had a horrible lie in the rough there and actually missed the green right with my shot, chipped it up about six, seven feet, made it for bogey.

6, I hit driver, 5 wood, wedge about ten feet, made the putt for birdie.

8, I hit 5 iron about 15 feet, made the putt.

13, I hit driver, 4 iron, sand wedge about 15 feet, made the putt.

17, we can skip that one if you want.  It wouldn't bother me (laughter).  I hit 5 wood off the tee, hit 6 iron 20 feet short of the hole and it bounced right up to the green.  I hit a pretty good chip to get it about 12 feet from the hole and missed the putt.

Then 18, I hit a 3 wood off the tee and hit 9 iron about 12 feet and made that putt.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Thanks for coming in.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT