BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2004
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAURY LIVSEY:  We'd like to thank Corey Pavin for coming in.  You followed up your round yesterday, a 62, with a 72.  What's been your history when you go really low one round to the next?  You didn't shoot yourself out of it but you came back a little bit today.
COREY PAVIN:  I don't know if I have much history with that, going low.  62 is the best I've ever done.

I don't know, I think there's an old saying, it seems like when you go low, it's really hard to shoot a good score the next day, but I wasn't really thinking about that at all today.  I was just trying to go out there and play and see what happened.  I played all right today.  I hit one bad shot on 16 and went in the water there, but other than that, I really didn't play poorly today.  I missed some putts that I hit pretty good and they didn't go in.  So it was just a day that nothing seemed to fall in.  I just kept at it and kept at it, felt like I hit a lot of greens in regulation, had a lot of opportunities but just didn't get the ball in the hole.  Frustrating but I kept my patience and kept at it and I'll just keep doing that on the weekend and see where I end up.
Q.   How much more difficult did it get?  The wind seemed to pick up a little bit more.  I assume it was harder to get the ball close to the hole?
COREY PAVIN:  There was a little breeze out there today.  It wasn't really that hard as far as weather conditions.  I think the pin placements were much harder today.  I don't know what anybody else has said when they've come in, but I think the pins were pretty good today.  There were some hard ones to get the ball close to.  There were some pins that were in the back of the greens that when you have short irons it's hard to stop the ball without it spinning back or the pin is just tucked a little bit more.  I think that was the biggest difference you saw on the golf course today was the pins were more difficult.
Q.   How do you feel about your position?  You didn't play as well today but you're still in there.
COREY PAVIN:  I'm still in a really good position.  If I had shot better I'd be in a better position, but that goes for any round I ever play.

But I'm fine.  I'm two shots off the lead, I guess.  I think 8 under is leading right now.  Wherever it ends up, it's fine.  I'll have a good weekend and I'll be fine.  As I said yesterday, I'm not overly concerned with what position I'm in after every round, I just want to try to improve on my game and play better and better and keep going that route and everything else will take care of itself.
Q.   Is there anything in particular you'll work on either tonight or tomorrow?
COREY PAVIN:  Nothing different.  You know, I'll check my putting, but I felt like I hit a lot of the putts on the line I was trying to hit them on, I just didn't read them right or whatever happened.  As I said, I didn't feel like I putted poorly today, just nothing went in.  You have days like that.  Yesterday everything went in.  Today it didn't seem like hardly anything went in.

Again, that's the game of golf, and I'll just keep at it and go at it again tomorrow.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Why don't we go through your card, starting on the back nine.
COREY PAVIN:  Starting on the back nine, 12, I drove it in the right junk over there and hacked it out and hit 9 iron about 15 feet and two putted for bogey.

16 was the one shot I wanted over.  I hit a 5 iron.  I hit it kind of high on the face and it got up in the wind and I was actually thinking it would land on the front of the green and it ended up in the water short of the bunker.  I was kind of shocked, so I dropped, hit wedge on the green and two putted for bogey there.

One thing I was real pleased with, next hole, I hit 3 wood, 9 iron about four feet, made the putt for birdie.

Then No.  2, I hit 3 wood and I hit an 8 iron back into the wind just over on the fringe.  It was probably about 18 feet, and I made that putt for birdie.

So it was nice.  After I made that double I came back with a couple birdies, which was nice, and I bogeyed the par 3, right?  I pulled a 5 wood in the left bunker and hit it out about five feet, missed the putt, and that was it.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Thanks, Corey, appreciate it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT