MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 3, 2002
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Corey, for joining us for a few minutes, great start to the week.  Why don't you just talk about the conditions and how you played and we'll go into some questions.
COREY PAVIN: Well, I mean, it was a great day, a little warm for this time of year, but real nice day.  You know, it's better than really cold, I suppose.  The conditions were excellent, very little breeze.  The course is in pretty good shape.  I just had a good day.  I bogied 11, which was my second hole today, and didn't make a bogey after that.  Hit the ball really well after that, hit a lot of greens, made six birdies and it seems easy when I'm sitting hereafter wards.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions.

Q.   Did it feel like you were back in the old date here in July in the heat and everything?
COREY PAVIN: Maybe not quite July, but it was pretty hot, but July is  -- I don't know what the high is supposed to be today, but I sort of remember July being high 90s maybe and extremely humid and no air movement.  The wind hardly ever blows.  Certainly it's more comfortable now, it's quite a bit warmer now or a lot warmer than it's supposed to be this time of year.  It was nice, though.  I'd rather have it hot than cold.  I remember the first year we came here this time of year, I believe it was the first year, it was pretty cold, maybe 70, but it was cold in the mornings.  It's nice.  I like warm weather, so I have no complaints about it.

Q.   Is a round like today, considering the way things go, is it a bring-you-back-round or is it one that you're glad to see happen because it can prepare you or where does a day like today get in your  --
COREY PAVIN: I guess yes to both of your comments.  I guess time will tell for what it's like.  Any time  -- the way I've played the last few years  -- I can get a good solid round in like that, it's very good for me.  What was really good for me today was I was really relaxed on the golf course.  I was very calm.  I didn't get all keyed up because I was shooting a decent score, I just stayed the same way, and that's what I need to do.  I just took one shot at a time and just played out there.  I didn't really count my score up.  I didn't even look at the leader board.  I couldn't tell you  -- obviously I'm near the lead if I'm not in the lead, so I didn't even look, not that I was avoiding looking, but I just didn't even really care to look.  It didn't matter to me.  On Sunday it matters but today wasn't a big deal.  I am just in my own little world out there and playing golf and enjoying myself and just being very relaxed.  I played with Scott today, Hoch, and I knew he was playing well and I didn't really realize that he was 5-under after 13 or 14 holes until I looked over at the board and I just knew he was playing good.  I didn't even notice what he was shooting and when I was playing with him.  It's a good frame of mind to be in because it's what I'm driving at.

Q.   Are you one of those kind of players that feeds off somebody else playing well in your group?
COREY PAVIN: No, usually it doesn't matter to me too much.  You know, when I'm in the mode I'm supposed to be in, it doesn't matter what anybody else is shooting.  It shouldn't matter.  Sometimes it does; sometimes it doesn't, but it shouldn't.  I should just be out there playing my game of golf and it doesn't matter what anybody else is doing.  Probably the best thing about somebody playing well is you just get to see the flight of the ball and how it's reacting with breeze and how it lands on the green.  That's the most important thing if you're watching other people's shots.

Q.   You play here pretty much every year, don't you?
COREY PAVIN: No.  I think since it moved to this time of year I have, I believe.  I may have missed a year somewhere, but when it was in July it was tough because it was the week before the British Open, and I really didn't want to play the week before the British Open.  The last couple of years I actually have played in Milwaukee, which is the week before, but then I just didn't want to and I didn't, so I wasn't here a lot during that time period before they moved to the fall.

Q.   But now you've been here pretty much every year?
COREY PAVIN:  I'd venture to say yes, I have.  I'd have to look.  I don't know how many years it's been here in the fall, six years maybe.

Q.   I just didn't know whether this was one that  -- at the beginning of the year you always circle, yeah, I'll go there.
COREY PAVIN: When it moved to the fall I pretty much did because I think it's an excellent golf course.  Obviously it's really nice to be right here at the resort, you kind of fall out of bed and you're in the clubhouse, so that's nice, a great workout facility and the spa is excellent.  Everything is right here.  We don't see that very often out on Tour and it's very comfortable.  The tournament people have always been fantastic here.  It's just a well-run event.  It's a shame to see it go.  I'll miss it and I'm sure there's a lot of guys out here that are going to miss this tournament, but things carry on, I guess, and they change.  It's just a shame.  I think a lot of people feel that way.  I certainly do.

Q.   Are you one of the ones that stays right here at the conference center?
COREY PAVIN: Well, I don't stay in the conference center.

Q.   Upstairs?
COREY PAVIN:  I stay in a hotel room.  I just stay over here, next door here.  I'm actually closer to where I'm staying than I will be when I go in the clubhouse.  I like staying right here.  I think whenever we can stay on-site I like it for obvious reasons.  There's no traffic, no worry about getting to the golf course.  You're just here; it's great.

Q.   No looking for car keys?
COREY PAVIN: Right.  I haven't lost them yet, but I'll let you know if I do.

Q.   You say you like the golf course.  Had you been here in the past when maybe you weren't playing well and thought if I was just a little sharper I could do some business here?  It is not a place where you have to be a 220-pound power hitter to do well, right?
COREY PAVIN: This week the course is set up with very long rough.  It's important to put it in the fairway.  I missed one fairway and it was the hole I bogeyed.  I had to chip out.  Literally I almost couldn't see my ball when I was over it.  It was deep.  So, I mean, I like that certainly.  That's not a bad thing for me, to see long rough out there.  It puts a premium on hitting the ball in the fairway.  There's a couple long holes out here, a couple tough holes, and I feel like if I can play those holes well then there's a couple of holes that you can get out there and make some birdies on.  I try and play my way around this golf course. 
But to get back to your original comment I feel like whenever I'm playing on my game I can play anywhere and do well, so I don't really sit here and look at any specific golf course and say, gosh, if I was just on my game I could do well here.  I feel like if I'm on my game anywhere I can do well, so I don't really look forward to a tournament completely in that regard.  There's certain places I love going and enjoy it, and this is one of them.

Q.   When you say "chip it out," how severe was your  -- what did you do at 11?
COREY PAVIN: I hit a sand wedge.  I probably moved it up about 70 yards or so, which was actually a pretty good shot for the lie I had.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can we go through your birdies and bogeys, please?
COREY PAVIN: Sure.  I started on the back nine, so 11 I drove it in the right rough as I was saying and pitched it out 70 or 80 yards and had a 100-yard shot in and hit wedge 12 feet behind the hole and just missed it, made bogey there. 
12, I hit a drive and a 6-iron about ten feet, made it for birdie. 
14, I hit driver and wedge about ten feet, made it. 
3, I hit drive, 3-wood in the greenside bunker, par 5 there, hit it out of the bunker about six feet, made that for birdie. 
6, I hit 3-wood, 9-iron about six feet, made that for birdie. 
7, par 5, I laid up down at the bottom of the hill and hit sand wedge about six feet again, made that putt for birdie. 
8 I hit driver, 6-iron on the left fringe, I was about 25 feet, and canned that one there.  There you have it in a nutshell.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  A couple more questions.

Q.   Are you happy with the way your season has progressed this year?
COREY PAVIN: No.  I would have loved to have played a lot better.  I have not played the way I wanted to play this year.  You know, wherever I am on the money list, I can't tell you, it's probably 150-some or wherever, is not where I want to be.  I want to be certainly in the Top 30.  I certainly feel I'm capable of being there, if not higher.  It's a disappointing year for me definitely.  I'd love to play well this week.  Is it would help certainly, but it's just a disappointing year, no doubt about it.

Q.   Physical or mental reasons do you think?
COREY PAVIN: I'm not sure; probably a little of both.  Physically I think I've probably swung the club better than I have for a while, but I haven't taken it to the golf course very well this year.  I think that's where maybe some of the mental stuff comes in.  It's been a struggle certainly.  The last six years have been a struggle.  I'm just trying to get my game back where I can get out there and play some good golf.  I know I'm certainly capable of playing many rounds like I did today.  It's frustrating not to do it every week, shooting at least one round like this.  I used to do it all the time and there's no reason why I can't do it now. 
It's nice to play a round like this, as I said earlier, just to reaffirm to myself that I am certainly capable of playing like this.

Q.   Does that mental boost at all carry over?
COREY PAVIN: I hope so.  You know, it should.  There's no reason for it not to.  I just want to go out there and play relaxed the way I did today and take it one shot at a time and focus on each shot, for what it is, just a shot, and try to execute it and let the ball go where it goes.

Q.   Is it harder to relax because of where you are on the money list?  Does that kind of play on you a lot?
COREY PAVIN: No, not really the money list.  I think what bothers me is just the way I'm playing just from a personal standpoint.  If I wasn't exempt next year, certainly it would be a lot more pressure on me, but I have enough pressure on myself for personal reasons to play well, just because I want to play well.  You know, where I am on the money list is  -- the only reason that's important to me is because it's a way to grade myself relative to everybody else.  As I said, it's just a personal thing for me that I want to do well and achieve something that I feel I'm capable of.

Q.   Is it hard when you bogey the third hole not to say here we go again?
COREY PAVIN: Sometimes it is.  Today it was not.  It didn't even phase me at all, which is the frame of mind I need to be in.  I made bogey there, and it was like, well, I made bogey and just keep at it, and I birdied the next hole, which certainly helps, but I was fine.  It didn't bother me.

Q.   Even though you're talking about like a six-year down period in a way in your game, it doesn't seem like your personal standards have dropped any.  Do you still expect to play as well as you did when you were on top?  Is that fair to say?
COREY PAVIN: I think that's pretty fair.  I think, you know, maybe three years into not playing well, maybe that was not fair of myself to put that kind of pressure on myself, but as I said, I know I'm capable of playing like I did today.  I've worked very hard to get my game in shape and I've done a lot of things besides just practicing, working with Dick Coop and when I'm home working hard on a lot of different things, but to try to get my game where I know it is can be, so I don't feel like my expectations are out of reach.  They might be high, but they're certainly not out of reach.  That's one thing, I never try to have goals that are unattainable because then you set yourself up for disappointment and that doesn't work well with your confidence.

Q.   You talked about the fact that you came in and just played well and wasn't really thinking anything, didn't look at the leader board, didn't know where your partner or playing competitor was for the first nine holes.  Why is it so hard to get to that point every week or every day?
COREY PAVIN: Well, I think some of it is bad habits.  I've gotten into some bad habits of watching the leader board or thinking what the cut line is going to be, just bad things to think about.  You know, too goal-oriented for a specific round.  You know, I think when I was playing my best golf, if I was going into the last round and thought 67 will do it for me today and I'll win, it's a little different then because I'm confident, I feel great.  It's a lot easier to think that before the round, but actually when I'm playing, I still don't think that way.  I still would watch the board and try to just stay on top. 
But I guess what I'm saying is that when like today not knowing what my playing partners were doing specifically, and really I kind of knew what I was shooting but I didn't really care, you know, I didn't  -- if I was 3-under, whatever, if I was 4-under, whatever, if I was 2-over, whatever, I wanted to keep playing one shot at a time and that's the frame of mind I want to be in.  It's just easier to play that way.  There's no pressure, I'm not applying pressure to myself from within, and that's just  -- you talk about being in a zone or you talk about  -- I've always felt like I'm in a shell when I'm playing my best golf, that other things don't bother me or I don't hear things or I don't see things, just things don't bother me, and that's where I like to be is in that shell where my golf game is what I'm totally focused on on the golf course, and especially when I'm hitting my shots and executing.  I want to be totally focused on that. 
Does that answer your question?  It was a long-winded answer to your little question.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  One or two more questions?  I think that's it.  Thanks.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT