BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 16, 2002
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  7-under par today, Corey.  Why don't we begin today with some questions. 



Q.  Corey, you played that front 9 pretty quickly.  How long did you wait before you could tee off on your 10th hole?
COREY PAVIN: I had to wait quite a long time.  When we turned, we had four groups to tee off.  I watched four groups tee off.

Q.  Did that throw you off on any rhythm you had or is it something you deal with?
COREY PAVIN: I just dealt with it.  It actually didn't.  I went out and hit a few balls on the range and stayed loose.  I actually went out and birdied 1 and 2.  I kept things going.  It's a little tough to wait, certainly.  But you have to deal with it and go on. 

Q.  Corey, could you tell us what the state of your game is currently?
COREY PAVIN: Well, I think it's getting better.  I've done a lot of work off-season, a lot of work with my teacher, and right here this week, actually, working, as well.  I try to get my swing better and better.  And it's definitely night and day from a year ago.  It's so much better now.  I still need to keep working on it. 
It's getting better and better, and it's starting to show up on the course every now and then, like it did today.  And definitely it's going in the right direction now.  I'm pleased with that.  I still need to get more comfortable with my swing.  But it's getting there.  I hit a lot of good shots today.



Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the equipment, I guess, I don't know, Evolution or Revolution, the technology.  Are you benefiting from that, especially?
COREY PAVIN:  Well, I'm using the Evolution irons by Tommy Armour a good clean, blade, I like them a lot.  I wouldn't use them if I didn't.  Those are excellent irons.  I've been very pleased with the performance of them, certainly. 

Q.  Do you hit the ball farther now than you did ten years ago?
COREY PAVIN: Yeah. 

Q.  How much?
COREY PAVIN: I don't know, it will show up on the stats this year, it didn't show up last year too much.  I don't know, I'd probably say I'm hitting it probably ten, fifteen yards further now than ten years ago.

Q.  How much of that is due to the equipment?
COREY PAVIN: I think it's all me (laughter.) That was a joke.  I think the equipment certainly had something to do with it, the technology.  I think my swing is better than it used to be.  I'm getting more out of my swing, definitely.  But I'd say it's probably 80 percent me, and 20 percent equipment right now.



Q.  When you hear the talk about the lengthening of Augusta and playing a U.S. Open course that might be 75 or 76 hundred yards, what -- how do you react to that?
COREY PAVIN: Well, I think lengthening golf courses isn't the answer to bringing the scores down or handling guys that hit the ball long.  I think -- if you look at what they've done to golf courses by lengthening them, I think basically that feeds into the long hitters' hands.  You can look and see who's won on golf courses that have been lengthened dramatically, and you'll see long, strong hitters that win there. 
If you want to try to even the field, even the playing field out, the answer may be to narrow the fairways, not that much, grow a little rough, and make the fairways firm and you'll see a lot of fairways missed by a lot of people.  It will be a lot harder to hit the fairways.  And that's going to be -- I think that's the key to it, for me. 
And if you look at a U.S. Open set up, it's set up to an extreme  - thin fairways, long rough, and pretty much everybody has a chance to win there.  So it's like a no-brainer to me to even the playing field, if that's what you want to do.  You don't have to even the playing field if you don't want to, so it's whatever tournament wants to do or Tour, it's up to them.

Q.  Corey, you played well in LA last year, and you had gotten back together with your coach, were you disappointed that you didn't get more out of the rest of the year?  Did you feel like you would improve quicker than you did?
COREY PAVIN: Well, yeah, after May, I played well at Colonial, and I didn't finish the year the way I wanted to.  That's one reason I wanted to do a lot of work off-season, and kind of get my thinking a little bit better, get a little more confident with my swing.  I still wasn't as comfortable as I wanted to be with my swing as the year went on, and that's what I worked hard on on the off-season  - was to get more comfortable with my swing.  As I said, it's shown up here a couple of rounds already this year.  Hopefully a few more this week.

Q.  With the lengthening of the golf courses, do you still feel like you can compete consistently?
COREY PAVIN: Oh, sure, yeah.  I think -- right now, as I say, I'm hitting the ball a lot further than I used to anyway, now, and that's what Bruce and I are working on a lot  - to get a lot more out of my swing, to be more efficient, and hit the ball stronger and further.  But I don't want to lose my accuracy either, so I'm trying to balance that out. 
I don't think the courses are too long for me to play.  I remember when I won at Shinnecock, I read about the course being too long for me and no chance, and I won.  But I don't feel like there's any golf course I cannot win on.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Corey, for joining us for a few minutes, and play well the rest of the week. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT