MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 7, 1999
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COREY PAVIN: I was happy with the round and I drove the ball pretty well, which I need
to do out there. The rough is pretty long. The course is playing very difficult, the
greens are a little firm. When I saw the course in the morning I knew it was going to be a
pretty tough day out there.

Q. Did you change your approach at all when you saw the course this morning?

COREY PAVIN: I don't know if I changed my course, but it kind of makes you relax a
little bit. You know you don't have to go out and make a ton of birdies, and you know par
is a good score on a hole. And sometimes when the scores are a little bit higher, you're
able to stay a little bit more patient in some ways, because you know that if you make par
it's fine, you're not really losing any ground, per say.

Q. Would you go over your card real quick?

COREY PAVIN: 9 I hit a driver and 4-iron in about 25 feet behind the pin and made it.
10 I hit driver, 4-wood about 25 feet and made that. 11 I hit driver, 7-iron about six
feet for birdie. And 15 I hit driver, 3-wood on the left of the green, I was about of 60
feet and putted it about five feet and made the putt for birdie there.

Q. How was 18 today?

COREY PAVIN: Pretty tough. I hit a 3-wood in. I just made sure I hit it in the fairway
off the tee there. No matter what I do on that hole it's very hard for me to get on top of
that hill. I'm basically going to hit it in that bank off the tee, and just have a long
shot in. I hit it in the fairway, and I hit 224 or something to the hole, and cut a 3-wood
up about 25 feet short of the hole, just below the ridge and 2-putted. It's a pretty
strong hole.

Q. (Inaudible.)

COREY PAVIN: It was cold. I played yesterday in the Pro Am in the morning, and it was
very cold. And I'm sure it's going to be cold tomorrow morning. There's no clouds now, so
it's going to be cold.

Q. How tough of a golf course is it under these conditions? 

COREY PAVIN: As opposed to July? It's cold for here. I think everybody would rather be
in warmer weather. But I'd rather be in weather like this than when we used to play in
July. It's kind of nice. It's refreshing. Maybe a little too refreshing at the moment. But
I think it's going to warm up a little bit on the weekend.

Q. (Inaudible.)

COREY PAVIN: Yeah, obviously it would be nice -- I've been playing better, which I've
been pleased with in general, but I know I can play a lot better than I have been, so
obviously a win would be great. But three more days, and if I'm playing like this, I'll be
in good shape.

Q. You should have good feelings after last year.

COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I played reasonably well here, the last years -- I think the last
two years, actually. I played well on this golf course in the past. I haven't played here
many times, but I think I played well whenever -- I think I play well here. You need to
drive the ball in the fairway here. This rough is very difficult. It's great and I like
it, if you keep it in the fairway you have an advantage and I've been driving the ball
fairly straight this year, and that's a big help out there.

Q. Earlier today it was said that if weather remains the same (inaudible) --

COREY PAVIN: It could, certainly if the greens are firm, I think there's just a little
forecast of rain maybe on Saturday. I think that's pretty iffy, I think. So if the greens
firm up a little bit and you've got some long rough, it's a very tough combination. And
the greens may be as quick as I've seen them here. And they're pretty difficult when they
get quick. All these things add up, definitely, and with the cold weather. It was okay
this afternoon, obviously playing was pretty cool out there, and it's flat in the morning,
too, which makes it more difficult.

Q. When you looked at the scoreboard, did you expect to see a bunch of 80s or --

COREY PAVIN: I just looked at the leaderboard, the electronic board and just saw that
nobody was really shooting low. One under was tied for 10th when I first teed off. I'd
just like to gauge what the scores are going to be, and it helps me with my state of mind
for the ride. As I said earlier a lot of times you come here and 8-under is on the board.
And you may have a thought of how the golf course is going to play on Tuesday and
Wednesday, but until the tournament starts you really never know what the scores are going
to be. And it just reaffirmed to me that the course was playing difficult. I just needed
to make sure I stayed very patient today.

Q. You said you're playing better, but you can still play even better than that. Is
there any particular area that you think that's kind of not doing up to it or do you want
to improve everything?

COREY PAVIN: I want to improve everything, I think every golfer does that in the world,
professional or amateur. I think a few things better in the last few weeks, my chipping
has been a little bit better. My iron game is probably the one thing that I've been
working on the hardest the last month or so. As I said I've been driving the ball pretty
straight and I haven't been putting as well as I want to. I think my iron play has been
better than my putting. I worked on my iron game and putting mostly. Today I putted very
nicely. I can't think of any mistake I made on the greens at all. I made a couple of long
putts and made about a 12, 15-footer for par on 14 today, too. A couple of nice putts I
made today.

Q. You were talking about being patient, what does that mean, how do you interpret
being patient? 

COREY PAVIN: Well, to me it's -- part of it is just playing within your abilities as a
player, not getting uptight about a bad break or a bogey or something that doesn't go
right or something that goes wrong, for that matter, just trying to stay more on an even
keel, and it's talked about a lot in major championships when at majors you're more on
edge, and you know that they're really an important tournament and that's the time when
your emotions come out more. So it's just trying to keep the emotions down a little bit,
and make sure that things don't get out of hand emotionally, one way or another, good or
bad. A lot of times you hear patience, and you hear about negative stuff, but also
positive things, when you're going really well and doing very well, you still need to stay
patient to to stay focused, you don't want to get too excited, either.

Q. Patience can be defined really by every player in a different way?

COREY PAVIN: I would think you would find some different definitions from different
players, certainly. That's more my definition. I think every player has their tendencies,
one way or another and you have to work your own theories into your game and what works
for you as an individual. I suppose if you did some sort of study you'd find maybe 5 or 6
groups of players that fit in certain categories, I guess. But you can do the research on
that and let me know.

Q. It's become like a buzz word?

COREY PAVIN: Patience.

Q. I don't know in past generations, they talked about patient. But a lot of golfers
talk about being patient. But patience for you, would not be what patience would be for
somebody else?

COREY PAVIN: I think that would be fair enough. I think everybody has a different
definition of it in some way as it relates to golf.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT