THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 8, 2015
Steven Bowditch
Jason Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys put up a really good fight.  You guys played a bit of a seesaw game on the front nine and then you kind of came back.  You guys were kind of dormie when you had that huge putt that you made to extend the match was great.  But overall, how would you evaluate your strategy as a team and the execution?
JASON DAY: I think it was pretty good.  It's just kind of tough to get any kind of momentum going.  You start missing some greens, myself and Steven.  It's just really hard to get comeback.  But to be able to have Steve hit the shot on 17 and 18 and get me on the green and give myself an opportunity, and getting one back on 17, and also having a chance of maybe tying the game, it was good.  I loved it.  I have fun in those kind of conditions, but Steve played good.
Q. The 18th hole you guys played great golf both coming into the greens.  You just got outplayed.  But going into tomorrow, what do you think it will take to turn this whole thing around?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, we've just got to stick to our game plan.  Obviously the Americans just played a little better than us today.  We've just got to go out, make some more putts, hit some more greens and make some more birdies.  It's pretty simple.  There is not much more that has to be done.  It's just plain and simple better golf.  There is no other way around it.
Q. In a match where the internationals never had the lead, what was the biggest challenge of you guys hanging around and trying to claw back here in the final two?
JASON DAY: That's it.  The good thing about this kind of format is if you get down, it's only one hole.  We never really got to anything kind of in our favor with the momentum.  But I think with how Steve played coming home, it was getting opportunities on the greens were huge, holing putts.  I just felt good on the greens today.
It was a big putt for me on 17, but for him to hit that 4-iron on the last hole and give myself an opportunity to eagle and maybe tie the game, I just can't say enough good things about how he's playing.
Q. Steven, you told me this morning you planned on riding his jet stream.  What do you take away from your first Presidents Cup match?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, obviously I couldn't be anymore happier in the first situation.  It was good.  I didn't play the way I really wanted to play.  I felt like 10 and 11 really not switched my momentum, but my momentum started to get away from us there, and that was on me, not Jason.  So hopefully I'll learn from that tomorrow and just have better execution and make a little better decision and we can go out and play better.
Q. How do you evaluate your performance today?
JASON DAY: I think for both of us it wasn't our best, but the biggest thing for us is to keep hanging around.  You're never out of the fight when it comes to this sort of stuff.  For Steve to play the way he did coming home, hitting that nice shot on 18 was great, and that's something that he can take not only into tomorrow's round and the rest of the week but for the future as well.  Stuff like that you can't really relive experiences unless you have shots like that.  So it's good for you mentally, but it's going to help him go into the next few rounds.
Q. When your team lost the putt on the last hole, what did you think?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, you have a lot to lose.  It's a hard thing, but we just didn't play well enough.  And Zach and Phil, they did what they needed to do.  They hit some great shots when they needed to hit them, and unfortunately, we didn't do that.  So we live and learn and we're coming out tomorrow harder.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT