WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 8, 2015
Steven Bowditch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I hear you being humble in there saying it's out of the box.  I know you had a tough round at the end of last week, but you've been playing pretty good golf this year, and that's something that showed up today.STEVEN BOWDITCH: I have been playing -- I feel like I've been a lot more consistent and getting myself, not so much in contention a bit more, but just in and around there. Yeah, I don't know what happened last Sunday.  Ever since then, it's just been feeling all over the map. Today I was able to get a few feelings back that I've had the last sort of six, seven weeks with my golf swing and started to go back to where I was looking again.Q. You almost play like you did when you get on a roll, that almost unconscious, you just seem to be able to make birdies from anywhere.  You had that going today?STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, I did.  It really only started -- the front nine was very much a struggle again with my golf swing.  I felt uncomfortable, and I was stuck in some places. And then I made a really good swing on like 13, I think, or 14.  14, yeah.  Hit a really good drive down there and created a feeling that I had the last sort of six, seven weeks.  From there, I didn't miss a golf shot.  I hit it dead where I wanted to hit it basically.  Hopefully, I can carry it into tomorrow.Q. Did you feel like 63 was out there today with that course?STEVEN BOWDITCH: Not on that golf course.  It's one of those golf courses, it's so difficult when you're just off with the driver.  But I felt like they might have softened the greens a little bit.  They might have been getting a little bit fiery yesterday.  Getting a bit wiry maybe.  They were a little more receptive today. Again, if you're driving it okay, with the fairways being so firm -- I don't know what the average drive this week is.  I think I saw 320 is what the field is averaging, 315.  When they get that firm and you get it in the fairways, a lot of times you are going to have some wedges in your hand.  With them softening them up a little bit, they're perfect to putt on.  There's no excuses for missing putts out there.  They're as good as they get.Q. What was your mindset coming into today?STEVEN BOWDITCH: Didn't really have one.  I was just trying to get those feelings back for the next couple of weeks coming up.  This next stretch, just trying to get those feelings in my golf swing that allows me to just let it go and sort of look up and going at my target.  I was just trying to create those again today, and that's all I really worked on, just small targets, not too much imagination with my golf shots. My confidence is so far down, I had to simplify it this week.Q. Do you think Nick Price was keeping an eye on that one, mate?STEVEN BOWDITCH: I was hoping.  It's something I really want to do, yeah.Q. Talk about that Presidents Cup.  Just a few spots out of automatic qualification.  With a good week here and next, you take it out of his hands anyway, right?STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, I mean, being over there in Korea and a few guys that are floating around that sort of my area, I dare say I'm probably not going to be a pick.  We all know what we've got to do.  We've got to finish inside that top 10, and it's basically in our own hands. So, yeah, it's something that I really want to do.  It will be a dream of mine.  I haven't had too many.  And to play a British Open at St. Andrews, got my TOUR card at the page of 30, and to play a Presidents Cup.  Just pack it in if that goes through, yeah.Q. Did you have to make some adjustments?  The pins are some tough placements.STEVEN BOWDITCH: Again, no.  Obviously, my confidence has been down the last few days.  I wasn't too worried about pins.  I'm just trying to go at my targets.  I think there is definitely some tough pins out there, but if you hit it in the right spots, you can make some nice putts.Q. How are you with carrying momentum from one round to the next?STEVEN BOWDITCH: I'm not real sure.  I guess we'll find out.  I didn't have too many good rounds out here.  So hopefully, we'll see.  Hopefully, I can just go out and play golf and try to make a few putts.  The golf course is out there for the taking.  I dare say someone's got to get at least double digits today. The way Jim plays around here, his record -- what's he got?  Nine top 10 in 15 starts.  He's going to be very tough to catch.Q. You said how much the Presidents Cup means to you.  Hasn't been going for that many years, but what's your biggest memory of the Presidents Cup?STEVEN BOWDITCH: Where I really, really started to get the drive -- it was only a couple of years ago, where I thought maybe I could do this.  I just enjoyed the team atmosphere and the camaraderie between all the guys. When I saw it in Australia and really watched it, that was really the first time that I didn't just enjoy it, like I was checking out what's going on.  That was when I thought, yeah, it's really, really time to try to have a go at this.  That's something I really want to do. When it's all said and done, I'd love to be able to say that I at least represented the international team one time.Q. You said that your confidence was down this week.  What sparked it today?  What sparked it turning?STEVEN BOWDITCH: Nothing really.  It's just golf.  One day it's good.  One day it's bad.  That's just the way it goes.  It's a game of millimeters.  You can be just on or just off, especially around this golf course. If you're in the fringe, you're fine.  If you're just in that rough, it's pretty tough.  Nothing really sparked it.  Just golf.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT