THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Steven Bowditch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVEN BOWDITCH: 17 is what it is.  It's not a big deal.  I hit three bad wedges today, three fat wedges from nowhere and a couple of them cost me bogeys.  Yeah, the shot on the last.  I've got to work on it and try and get it out of my game, but other than that, it was all pretty good.  Drove it fairly decent, one bad tee shot but got away with it.  It got pretty tough out there.  It went from birdie golf to par golf real quick there.  I don't know whether it's starting to slow down now or just because you come up here on 18, but you've got to hang on out there.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  STEVEN BOWDITCH: No, not at all.  No, just a bad shot.  That's all.  It's just a stupid mistake.  I've got 50 yards of green but I can't hit it and make a 15-year-old bogey there.  Stupid.   Q.  You go out tomorrow with probably pretty heavy rain.  What's the mindset?  STEVEN BOWDITCH: I think that's more why I was kind of -- why I'm not happy right now, stepping off that last, knowing the weather is coming and you're going to need every shot you can tomorrow morning.  We'll just wake up and see what it is.  As much as you don't want to play in that kind of stuff, today and then the rain, I guess it's good practice for tomorrow because we all know it's coming.   Q.  When did the conditions change for you?  STEVEN BOWDITCH: It started to get really blowy on about 7 is when it started really whipping.  And then from there, yeah, you got a couple birdie holes right there as soon as that picked up.  But yeah, other than that, it's just hang on.  It's into out of the left that whole back nine, which is for me probably my toughest wind.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, I guess.  Yeah, you've just got to hit it, try and hit it in the fairways and stay away from those bunkers and just don't make silly mistakes.   Q.  On the positive side (inaudible)?  STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, it was all right.  I hit a lot of good shots.  I think that's -- the hard shots I hit really well.  The simple stuff like that drives you insane, and at this level you can't do it.  They're way too good and you can't give them anything.  You've got to make birdies from inside 100 yards.  You can't be making bogeys, and I did that twice today.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT