AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 30, 2015
Steven Bowditch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   Steven Bowditch joins us after a 4-under par 65.   He's the 54 hole leader here at the AT&T Byron Nelson.   Currently holds a two shot lead. 
If we can get some comments on your round today, Steven.
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah.   I felt like I hit the ball pretty good today.   I drove it in some -- I kept it in the fairway which is pretty important out there with how wet it was so you can get your ball in the hand and it's a big advantage rather than hitting out of that wet rough.
So, you know, hopefully I can keep doing that tomorrow and maybe see a few more putts roll in.
JOHN BUSH:   Comment a little bit about the fact we've got three rounds in already and it's Saturday.
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   It's unbelievable.   All the players were talking about it at the start of this week, it's more than likely going to be a 54 whole tournament, even possibly a 36 hole tournament. 
To be sitting here Saturday night knowing -- I think it's a perfect day tomorrow, apparently.   It's pretty amazing.   It's a credit to the PGA TOUR and all the greens staff here at TPC Las Colinas.
JOHN BUSH:   Questions.

Q.   Given yesterday's round, rollercoaster, was it nice to have something that was a little more steady, I guess?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah.   Obviously it's one of those things you don't want to be -- you don't want to be exactly what you said, have a rollercoaster round.
I didn't putt really good yesterday at all.   I missed a lot of short putts.   I still made 7 birdies.   It was one of those days that I'll always -- I was able to grind it out and still create not a bad golf score and keep me in the tournament yesterday when things were not looking so good but, you know, it was pretty important yesterday I felt just to put myself in position to go again. 

Q.   And you've got a two shot lead over some guys that haven't really had a lot of experience on Sunday and Dustin is obviously there, too.   What kind of a mindset are you going to take going into tomorrow?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   My mindset is not really going to change.   I'm just going to go out there and play how I think the golf course will be played, the way it sort of suits my eye with the drivers and the 3-woods and, you know, I don't think I'll play it much different than anyone else.   You got to stick to your game plan and hopefully come that back-9 you're there or thereabouts and see what happens.   Have some fun.

Q.   What was the fairly lengthy discussion on the 9th?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I sprayed that one in the water and where I dropped it, where the point of entry was I couldn't -- we couldn't find anywhere to drop it.   So, just took time.   Probably happened all day with everyone.

Q.   Perfect reminder of trying to stay out of that wet stuff as you mentioned earlier, the wet rough?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   It was more trying to stay out of the water rather being that way than the hazard (laughter).

Q.   First question is do you think the conditions will change with this much time, be dry now?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Believe we're playing in 3s tomorrow so I think we're going off, probably last group maybe around midday, something like that, maybe 11:00. 
So yeah, I mean it will dry out.   Hopefully it will, it doesn't rain tonight.   I haven't seen the forecast for tonight.   You got to prepare for the golf course a little bit better.   Obviously it's not going to drain to be bone dry and running 30 yards but, sure, the more time we can give it the better.   I think it's perfect decision that they made and, you know, just give it that extra few hours in the morning.

Q.   So many things out there, does that change your mindset?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Really doesn't change my mindset.   I keep going at it, keep attacking pins and hopefully try to roll in some putts tomorrow.   I didn't have too many go in today.   Hopefully I can have a few more tomorrow.

Q.   Steven you're a big hitter, Dustin is a big hitter --
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I'm nowhere near in the same league as that.

Q.   Top 20 in driving.   Do you feel like you guys have, maybe Dustin more than you, have a little bit of advantage?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   To be honest, no.   I think wedges are the hardest ones to hit out here, the low irons.   Your 9, 10 -- sorry, I got a 10.   That's what I use.   I think because you take such a big divot and the water really seems to get on that golf club a lot, it's a lot harder to control your spin with the wedges and then in saying that, too, when they start putting those pins back it's hard for us to get at it, we do spin it because it spins a lot. 
If you can -- if you're back a little bit further, 7, 8, 9s, playing well I think that's more of an advantage, to be honest, especially on these greens, you know, because those 7, 8 irons are going to stop dead, you can get really aggressive, where you start getting wedges and sand wedges in your hand you got to start trying to control the spin and it's even harder with the water.

Q.   Have you slept on the 54 hole lead before?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah, I have a few times.

Q.   You don't mind it.
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I got a comfortable bed at home (laughter).   No obviously every experience is different.   Be nice to learn something new, you know, tomorrow and see what they throw at me.

Q.   You told us earlier in the week you have a lot of friends and family out here watching you.   Do you think the requests will increase tonight now that you got a real good shot as winning?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I'm not sure.   I'm sure they will but I think the ticket booth is closed for the night (laughter).   I don't know if I'll be able to get to them anymore.
JOHN BUSH:   Steven, best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT