AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 28, 2015
Steven Bowditch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Steven Bowditch into the Interview Room after a bogey-free 8-under par, 62.   Equaling his career low round on the PGA TOUR.
Steven, tremendous start.   If we can just get some comments on your round.
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah.   It was nice to see a few putts rolling today.   I got off to a pretty good start there on the 1st and rolled a nice putt in and started the momentum for the day straight away.
You know, I was playing with Rory and D.A. and also making putts, sorted of the whole group was watching the ball go in.   So, it's always nice to, you know, have everyone hitting fairways and watching some putts go in.
JOHN BUSH:   All right.   Let's go right into questions.

Q.   Steven, the way the conditions are, is the course favoring longer hitters, do you think?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yes and no.   I mean I guess it widens out the fairways a little bit.   The course is not a long golf course.   There's -- it's more of a tricky golf course.   You sort of got to place it in the right spots. 
I think the easiest part about it is how soft the greens are.   Even if you get it in the rough you can still get it on the green whereas in past years -- that's really been because the greens get so firm here.   I think that really makes it easier. 
Obviously, shorter hitters, so to speak, they might be coming in with 7-irons, you know, and they're probably easier to control a lot of the time out of the wet than a wedge would be with -- so, it's like anything. 
The greens are really good for how much rain they've had there, in really good shape.   You can make some putts out there.   It's not really as bad as everyone thinks.

Q.   Had a couple questions.   First of all, specifically the 14th, that was kind of a concern yesterday.   They had to close off the hole.   How has it fared?   It was the most water-logged hole.
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   The unfortunate thing about 14 is where the runoffs are for the water there is right in our hitting zone.   It's really no different to the rest of the golf course.   I guess it's just that one happens to be in the hitting zone I guess, landing zone.   So, it's not that bad.   The grass is -- if they can get some mowers on it in the few, couple days, it will be fine.

Q.   Then I wanted to follow-up, outside I think you mentioned that you live in the area and I was just wondering, can you tell us where and how long you've been here and why you ended up sort of settling here?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I live in Flower Mound.   I've been here for ten years.   I basically threw a dart at the map when I first come over here (laughter) in 2005 and then ended up marrying me a Texan so I'm stuck now (laughter).

Q.   I guess on that note, Steven, do you have a home course here?   What would you say your home course in DFW is?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I do a little bit of practice up at TPC Craig.

Q.   After last weekended for you, how important was it to come back and put a round like you did just to kind of forget and move on and --
             STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Forget what?

Q.   How it ended.
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   What do you mean?

Q.   Missing the cut.
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I already forgot about it.

Q.   So kind of bounce back with the round.
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   It's golf, man.   I don't know what my career stats are.   I'm probably about 35 or 40 percent making cuts so 60 percent of the time I'm used to it, missing them (laughter).

Q.   Steven, where is the 62, when does it originate?   Was there anything this week that you said in your practice or on the range where you said, "Wow, I'm hitting it pretty well, I might have a good 1st Round"?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   No, not really.   To be honest I've been playing really well the last two, three weeks and ranging it good.   I haven't been able to take it to the golf course. 
This week I've been struggling and it's -- I guess it's golf, you know.   I don't know whether you get on the first tee and give it a little more concentration and focus when you're not playing as well and grinding a little bit.   All of a sudden that magical word "momentum" pops up and there you go.

Q.   When you say you haven't taken it to the golf course, this week, did you play poorly in the field, did you feel uncomfortable in the Pro-Am or anything?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah.   Just not quite hitting the shots that I'm not hitting my targets.   What I'm trying to do, it's not bad.   I guess refining a little bit.

Q.   How would you characterize your season to this point?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Below average, I guess.   I got off to a good start this season and finished in 2nd in the first event and haven't really done anything since.   So, you know, summertime in the past years is normally when I play a little better so hopefully this can be the start of it.

Q.   You won on a TPC course.   Do you typically play well on those courses?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I don't know, I guess.   I'm not real sure.   I mean TPC golf courses are great.   They've always got great facilities and always in fantastic condition so it's always nice to be able to be treated like a member, so to speak, wherever we go to a TPC golf course.   They sort of always make you feel at home.

Q.   Have you lived in the area long enough for this to feel a little bit like a home town event for you or is that more Colonial or neither?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah, it's starting to feel that way, to be honest.   Starting to get a lot more ticket requests (laughter).   But, yeah, probably this one to be honest, this one I seem to get a lot more friends and family out to this one.   Colonial is 45 minutes to an hour away from where I live.   This one is not far.

Q.   And does that make it anymore special to have a round like that today with that in mind?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   You always want to play well but I guess it is a little more special when you have everyone around that only get to see you play golf once a year.   It's nice to be able to get out there and perform well for them, too because they're always excited.   Some of them taking a couple days off work, Thursday, Friday, stuff like that.   It is nice to be able to perform well.

Q.   John mentioned this was your low round on Tour.   Do you consider it your best round on Tour or have there been rounds you've actually felt like you played better, haven't gotten the score?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Probably my best putting in the way of longer putts made, you know.   I typically don't make a lot of longer putts, you know.   I made -- I guess I made probably three, four today outside 20 feet so I haven't done that for a long time. 
So, ball-striking-wise it wasn't up to par.   It was just my misses were in the right spots when I missed it and I was able to scramble around and get my pars and then from there, once I drove it in the fairway and, you know, I had the right numbers out there, had a lot of full shots.   I didn't have to sort of manipulate any golf shots.

Q.   Was there something with the putting?   Did you change anything, did you adjust anything recently or were you just seeing lines out there today?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I added a little more weight yesterday to my putter.   I felt it was getting light just in my hands and, you know, I often do those things, just add some weight or take some weight off depending on how it's feeling.   It's pretty easy solution.   I just tend to get a little more feel with it.   That was really all I did yesterday.

Q.   How much?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Ten grams.
JOHN BUSH:   Anything else?   All right.   Steven.

Q.   What type of putter?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Bettinardi.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT