MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Steven Bowditch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I had a blast.   A little nerve‑wracking on the first couple of holes, but it was good.   It was awesome to play with one of the greats of the game in Mark O'Meara.   It was great just watching him plot himself around and really know the golf course, know where the putts break. 
It was a great day.   I loved it.   Perfect weather.   Couldn't ask for a better start.

Q.   Make any par saves? 
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I did, yeah, my driver was a little off today, unfortunately.   It just quite doesn't fit my eye, this golf course, especially when it gets heated up.   So I'll be working my 3‑wood.   I should be able to get it around pretty good, using my 3‑wood around these holes.
But I putted nicely.   These greens are‑‑ these greens are quick.   They've gotten faster the last couple of days.   It's a big line and curve, but enjoyed it.

Q.   You played a flop on the front of 8 green and it didn't look like it went the way you wanted to.   And then you had your drama on 9, can you walk us through that?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I thought I hit a perfect golf shot.   It was just‑‑ it just must have grabbed‑‑ must have just hit into a little upslope or something and grabbed.   I was trying to get it on the downslope.   So I think it was a lot worse than what it ended up.
And down 9, I just hit it in the pine needles, and started moving something a little bit away from the ball.   Unfortunately my ball changed positions, so had to call a shot penalty on myself.

Q.   Did it put you off?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   No, not really.   It's one of those things.   You've got to be careful and I wasn't careful enough.   I haven't done that for a while, and hopefully I don't do it for a while again.

Q.   What is that like having that in the round, your first round, here, it's one of the things that doesn't happen that often, calling a penalty on yourself your first round?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah, I guess.   At the end of the day you really shouldn't be hitting it in the pine needles.   It is what it is.   When you do something like that and you get out of there with a bogey, where I hit it, from my next one to my third, to get it up and down from that, it was nearly like momentum.   I could have walked off with a double, and then it may have affected me.   But I made a 6‑footer down the slope.   It's the way it goes.

Q.   How did you feel on the first tee, the first time up?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   I was pretty good.   I had applause.   I was quite nervous.   But I didn't really expect to fall asleep on the first tee.
It was good.   It was a nice feeling to have.   And I'm glad I settled down after a couple of holes and just really enjoyed myself.

Q.   The first drive, how did that go?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah, it was good.   It went in the air and right down the middle (laughter).

Q.   You mentioned a learning curve, but also getting another round in. 
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Again, nearly every hole, you know, I'm learning something new, just because of the complexity of these greens and how much faster they are.   I don't know how much firmer they're going to get.   But how much faster they are compared to Tuesday, compared to Wednesday, they're probably a foot and a half, two feet quicker on the flat putt.   So you can imagine what that does to it.
And then you take a look around different pins and where they might put them, based on wind.   You don't want to look where misses are, but you've still got to keep in mind where the misses are, so you can try to make pars.

Q.   How aggressive do you go out tomorrow, given you have an idea of some sort of number?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah, I'll go and play golf.   I mean whatever happens, happens.   I'm just going to play my game.   And when I step up on 15 or 16 and have to reassess the situation, if we're shooting a really good score and back in contention or we're going to make the putt, I've just got to play golf and worry about what happens when it happens. 

Q.   Are you very tired?
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   No, no.   My gym work really kicks in out there (laughter).

Q.   Getting here and practicing and practicing and going through this round and maybe at this point you're‑‑
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   No, I'm not too bad.   I guess it's every kid's dream.   I could get out there and go again pretty easily.   Tired?   I just enjoyed the day and enjoyed playing with Mark and the amateur.   It was a great day, it really was. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT