VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 29, 2014
Steven Bowditch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Alright, Steve.   4-under 68 today.   Makes you, the only player in the field with sub-70 scores in all three rounds, thanks to Lee Patterson. 
Puts you at the top of the leaderboard.   With that, just a few comments about today.
STEVE BOWDITCH:   As you know, it was an indifferent start, I suppose.   I chipped it in on 1 and 2 calmed the nerves a little bit.   And then I'm not sure on my stats but I'm guessing it was sort of between 6 and 10 greens there so ball striking wasn't real good. 
But my misses were in a good spot.   You know, I was able to get it up and down most of the time and all in all, I'll definitely take 68 on Saturday.
DOUG MILNE:   We'll take a few questions with that.

Q.   You said an indifferent start.   Little bit of humor?
STEVE BOWDITCH:   Yeah.   You just sort of want to get off to a solid start and sort of hit fairways and greens and sort of settle yourself down that way. 
No, I actually hit two good shots on the first hole so I just sort of in between clubs for my second.   It was probably the easiest chip as you're going to get out there.   It landed on the front and let it run out.
The second hole was a little different.   I took a bit of a risk out of the bunker for my second shot to try and get it pretty close to the green and the lie was good I guess it wasn't that big of a risk. 
I was just trying to chip it up there in and around a comfortable tap-in distance so I got lucky and it dropped in.

Q.   The NBC commentators were talking a lot about Andrew playing slow and backing off and taking extra swings and reexamining shots. 
Did that bother you at all or is that just wasn't a factor at all?
STEVE BOWDITCH:   No, it's fine.   It is what it is.   There's fast players out her and there's slow players.   You get them every week, both fast and slow.   Andrew is a great guy.   Yeah, I mean he might have taken some time on some shots. 
We weren't behind at all so we never got asked to hurry up.   If we were to get on the that might have been a different story.   We obviously weren't behind so he wasn't that slow, I guess.

Q.   You seemed to spend a lot of the day beyond the cart paths and the long grass, in the rocks.   I saw you toting rocks and pitching them to and fro.   I saw you on No. 11, I didn't see your whole round but you had a lot of really good saves and scrambles today.
That must have been on 11 for a par when you hit through that tree, that must have been the shot of the day, do you think?
STEVE BOWDITCH:   I don't know whether it was the shot of the day but it was one that -- I couldn't chip it out.   That was my problem.   There was a rock there that, one, I couldn't move so I couldn't actually chip it sideways, chip it backwards.
So, you know, there was -- I only had to miss one branch, a decent sized branch and the rest was sort of twigs.   So, it was lucky enough to sort of get through there and I mean I was just -- yeah, I guess 50/50 luck.

Q.   You've never been in this position, I don't think, but have you ever had a round where you were able to scramble to this degree and still come out well?
STEVE BOWDITCH:   Yeah.   I mean probably most weeks (laughter).   I mean my short game is normally sharper as in chipping around the greens is normally one of my stronger points.   It's actually lacked this year for the first time along with my putting.
I think mainly because I've been concentrating on the ball striking for the last six months to a year to try to get that to a level.   I've sort of fallen away, so to speak. 

Q.   Steven, what do you go back on now with the lead going into the final round, what experiences do you draw on, what thoughts do you keep in your mind to calm the nerves?
STEVE BOWDITCH:   I'm not sure.   I've never really been in this position.   So I never had much to draw back on.   I've won four, five times, you know, between Web.com and Australia.   I've got a little bit of experience, but not a great deal, especially not at this level. 
I'm just going to take it one shot at a time, one hole at a time.   That's all I can do.   Hopefully have a fun day out there and a lot more fairways and greens, make it a bit more easier.

Q.   Will you change your routine tonight?   Do you think you're sleep well?   How will it go, do you think?
STEVE BOWDITCH:   Again, no, I've never slept on the lead so we'll see how we go.   Felt like we're out there for ten hours today so I'll probably sleep pretty good.
DOUG MILNE:   Okay.   Anybody else?   Steven, best of luck tomorrow.
STEVE BOWDITCH:   Thanks guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT