JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2013
Steven Bowditch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, it's a little depressing on the last hole, but you were very solid here this week.   
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah, I mean, depressing is the right word.   That was only my third bogey of the week, so I played nicely.   I just couldn't quite make any putts.   I got it going early, and made some putts and just couldn't keep the putter going through the middle there.   All in all, happy, and, yeah.   We had a chance to post a really good score today but just couldn't quite finish it off.  
   
 Q.   It was still a good score.   You've got to build off of this, because this would seem to springboard you in confidence I would think?  
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah, I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing, keep believing in my practice and what my coach is telling me and just hope it gets better and better.   It seems to be at the moment.   Hopefully, we can just keep leading it in through the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   What were you working on coming in here?   Did it pay off for you big time?   
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Just some technical stuff that I've been struggling with.   I've been working a while to fix it, and it's finally just come to the forefront.  
   
 Q.   You had seven birdies today.   What was working for you today, was it your putter, was it your driver?   
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   No, actually, I drove it okay.   I hit some good drives and I hit some terrible ones.   Like the one up the last.   I hit a few of them all week, actually.   So my driver was still not quite where I wanted it to be.   But my iron play has been good the last few weeks.   I'm putting good, I just don't make the ones I need to make through the middle there to really keep the round going.  
   
 Q.   You finished second last week, possibly another top 10 this week.   Where's your confidence right now?   
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   It's good.   It's nice to play well.   In this game, it doesn't happen that often, so I'd like it to happen.   I think everyone likes it to happen more often than not.   So I'll just trying to keep trying with it and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   This year, is this probably the best that you've played, do you feel, with the four rounds?  
STEVEN BOWDITCH:   Yeah, I'm learning.   This is my fourth or fifth year out here and I've never kept my card, so I'm still trying to do that this year.   Hopefully, I can just finish off the year well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT