THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 28, 2011
Steven Bowditch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good playing today: 5-under 65. Just some comments about the round and about the course and overall how you're feeling about playing.   
 STEVEN BOWDITCH: The course is in great shape. Greens are obviously just a little bit firmer because they're newer.   
 I found them pretty good today. Made a few putts. Yeah, course is nice.  
  
  Q. What's going right about your game right now?  
 STEVEN BOWDITCH: I just think the course sets up, you know, so if you can hit it high it's a big advantage around here. There are a few bunker carries. (Indiscernible.)   
  
  Q. How about the overall experience of being here this week? Obviously lots to do. Are you here by yourself or are you...   
 STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, I brought my family here. I spend a little bit of time here, so, yeah, it's a great spot. I love it.   
  
  Q. Just tell me about your round. 5-under, knocking down some putts, and all in all having a good day.   
 STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, it was nice out there. I drove the ball pretty good out there today. Missed a couple fairways. But I hit it nice and got off to a good start. That's really good to get rolling around here.  
 So I was 3-under after four, and it was good.  
  
  Q. Talk about the greens a little bit.  
 STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, I never played last yeah, so I really can't comment too much on 'em. But they're firm, they're new, but they still roll good. If you hit a good putt, it's going to go in. You know, that's really all you can ask for.   
  
  Q. Given some of stuff you've been through away from the course, days like today extra special for you?  
 STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, sure. (Indiscernible.) Just I was young and you grow old and, you know, it's just learning.   
  
  Q. Can you maybe talk about creating some awareness for some of those issues that people might have. Is it hard to talk about?  
 STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, it's something that's in the past, and that's where it's going to stay.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT