WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2015
Steven Bowditch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVEN BOWDITCH: Fairways are soft and greens are perfect.  Yeah, just got off to a good start and kept rolling.  Really, all in all, a pretty good score.
Q. You've played in three tournaments already on the PGA TOUR and this is your fourth one.  Do you feel like you're getting into your groove now?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: No, it's been a long year, so looking forward to a break after this.  So yeah, just hopefully I guess finish off the year well.  Still have a couple more events left but this is by far the biggest and hopefully get going out there and play well.
Q. You're 69th in the World Rankings at the moment, according to what I saw today.  Are you aiming for that big 50?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: No, not necessarily.  Whatever happens, happens.  Just a good, solid week here this week and hopefully the putts keep dropping and see where we're at the end of the week.
Q. Are you off to the driving range right now?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: A bit of lunch and maybe go to the driving range.
Q. A nice tidy score, isn't it?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, the golf course is obviously there for the taking, a little bit damp overnight, a little rain.  Widened the fairways up a bit, and greens are still great.  You can attack the golf course, and I was able to do that early and get off to a good start.
Q. There for the taking means, what, you're able to ping in a few balls and it sticks?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, basically.  You can get a little more aggressive, and widens the fairways up, as well.  With that ball -- if you're a little off-line, the ball still won't run into the rough as much.  It's probably about as easy as it's going to get today.
Q. I gather some of the pins, the tees are pulled forward, as well, so you haven't experienced the full length of the place.
STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, it can definitely be a tough golf course.  Just today, by the scoring, I guess it was a little bit easier.
Q. I take it you're pretty happy with where your game is in general terms?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, it's not too bad.  I've been struggling a little bit the last few weeks but it's hopefully coming back around.  It's been a long year and hopefully I can finish well here at HSBC.
Q. A long year, and yet in a sense, it's the start of a new term, a new season for you, isn't it?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, it is.  It's quite important to get off to a good start for the 2016 season.  So yeah, hopefully I can do that this week.
Q. Does that mean, though, that you are aching for a break and at the same time saying, one last push?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: Yeah, I guess there's a little bit of that.  It's pretty easier to get up and get ready for a World Golf event.  It's a great venue.  You've got the best in the world here.  If you can't get up for this, you'll never be able to get up for anything.
Q. Do you enjoy this part of the world?
STEVEN BOWDITCH: I do enjoy it, yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT