RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2008
Rebecca Hudson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN CALLANDER: Ladies and gentlemen, we have Rebecca Hudson, two-time winner this year on the Ladies European Tour. You must be feeling fairly confident coming in here. 
 REBECCA HUDSON: Yeah, I played quite nicely since the beginning of the year. I enjoy this golf course. Not playing fabulous again at the minute, but hopefully I can turn it around the next few days.
 COLIN CALLANDER: How much have you actually played here in the past? 
 REBECCA HUDSON: I've played a few Pro-Ams and The Open.
 COLIN CALLANDER: Who did you play with on the Sunningdale courses, if you can remember? 
 REBECCA HUDSON: A boyfriend, and I actually split up with him, and I didn't actually play. 
 COLIN CALLANDER: So you shouldn't have those problems this week then. 
 REBECCA HUDSON: No. 

 Q. Are you still friends?
 REBECCA HUDSON: No. He wishes. (Laughter).

 Q. Did you go back to the restaurant last year?
 REBECCA HUDSON: I did. I haven't been -- I kind of just do it just over the winter, so I was there this winter, end of December, January. 

 Q. Inaudible? 
 REBECCA HUDSON: If I'm at home in the winter and it is that cold and there's nothing else to do, yes, I would go back and help him out. Not to the extent that I used to for kind of other reasons, as well. It's just very hard work. It's extremely hard work. 
 I will go back if they want me. 

 Q. Inaudible? 
 REBECCA HUDSON: Yeah, it is. I think in the winner, I do like my time off, and I do like relaxing and seeing friends and things, and it made me realise actually that I work at that, and how much I love to play golf and enjoy what I do.
 I have some very good friends, and it's such a different environment to being in the golfing scene, which is nice. But I think doing it for four or five months a year, I don't think I could do it day after day after day after day, but it makes me enjoy being out here more. 

 Q. Inaudible? 
 REBECCA HUDSON: No, not yet. I'll be good. I was going to say, when you win back-to-back events and drop back two places in the World Rankings, I don't think that's going to open many doors. I think they are in a meeting and I think they will look at it and realise that No. 1 Gwladys is 120-something in the world and really she's better than that.
 As far as moving to America, we are getting stronger and putting a lot of hard work into new events and bigger events, and so I'm happy where I am and try to show that the European girls are good. 

 Q. Are you wise to the World Ranking system --
 REBECCA HUDSON: Yeah, you always the following week after the tournament you go to the Web page and just think, oh, I'll have a little look. I think they changed the system -- I don't know how the system works. It's a very complicated points system. I don't know, when it first started, you looked at our No. 1s, and it looked quite fair. But in the last year we just seem to have just dropped and dropped and dropped. 

 Q. Whereabouts do you think she should be --
 REBECCA HUDSON: That's just personal preference. Gwladys, who plays full-time in Europe -- I have no idea. I wouldn't like to say a number, but I would hope that she would be definitely in the Top-50 in the world. I mean, she played Solheim and won seven times in how many years; I would hope that she would be. 

 Q. (Is this something your management company can address)?
 REBECCA HUDSON: My management company is me. I'm part of the Players Council and a few of us have kind of said something to the tour and I think Alex and Marta are having a meeting today and just trying to push forward and just trying to make everyone aware exactly that it's not a fair system at the minute. Overall, it's not a very fair system.
 We are not saying we all should be somewhere, but I think the LPGA probably has got the best players in the world. But then if you look at Japan and the LET, you would hope that they are on a par. I don't know, I don't study it that much, this is just my own reference and they are all in the Top-50 in the world. Our Top 15 are lucky if they are in the world top 500. We just need something that's on some level. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 REBECCA HUDSON: Yeah, that sounds good to me. I think they realise it's a problem. I don't think they realised that it has been a problem. If any of the European girls did well, it would make them look, and actually there are some girls out there with the game that could do it, there is. There's lots of people who the spectators will walk up and not know who they are and that's just a shame. There's some great golfers out there at the minute.

 Q. Inaudible? 
 REBECCA HUDSON: Yeah, definitely, the TV coverage we get and just the whole everything about the British Open just boost it is forward and I hope some of the European girls, that we do show what we can do. I hope there are some names on the leaderboard that they go, who is that but we know who they are because they are European girls, and I think we are very understated sometimes. 

 Q. Playing in the States or --
 REBECCA HUDSON: I have, and it's like anything. I think that if you're going to go to the States, you have to have your life out there. It's like anything, you've got to be happy doing it, and I think if I have something, if I wanted to move out to America with my husband and the whole thing, we would just want to go out there and be out there, then wonderful. But my personal thing is I don't think I could go backwards and forwards and be happy. 
 So I am happy in Europe, and as I said, the golf is getting better and there's more tournaments. It's becoming a very good tour. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 REBECCA HUDSON: Yes, when it's good, it's good. I think we haven't got the whole in-depth strength down as the Americans. To make a good living in the European Tour in the top 20, you would have to be. Further down than that, I know I had three horrible years when I first started, and it is hard work. Whereas if you're 50th on the LPGA, you're actually doing okay. In Europe, you're struggling a bit. But the standard is better. 

 Q. So you're not going to America, for the foreseeable future?
 REBECCA HUDSON: No, I'm happy. I'm staying in Europe. We're getting stronger and look forward to tournaments like this and Solheim Cup and try to qualify for that, would be good. 
 COLIN CALLANDER: Rebecca, thank you very much and good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT