RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2007
Rebecca Hudson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN CALLANDER:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have Rebecca Hudson, who has just knocked it around in 3-under par 70.  How do you feel about your round?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  Really good.  Played really well.  Played very sensible golf.  Yeah, no bogeys, no bunker.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  You've played here a few times in amateur golf, were you looking forward to playing in course?  Is it a course you like?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  It is.  I like links golf.  A lot of the amateur events, we don't play links very often, so looking forward to coming back.   
 Played very well in Evian last week but didn't score well.  So it was nice to go out today and actually play well.   
 And anyone who knows me, I've had my golf clubs for years and years and years and I never changed golf clubs and two days ago I put the new G10 PING driver, and I hit it really well and it's given me extra yardage which has helped.    
 COLIN CALLANDER:  You mentioned earlier, you did not have a great night's sleep last night.  Can you talk a little about that?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  Some birds kept me awake.  Got an aviary next door.  I've rented a house with Kirsty Taylor, Kirsty Fisher and her boyfriend -- not the boyfriend, the boyfriend is not with us -- I didn't say that.  (Laughter) I didn't actually say that.  No, she'll be in serious trouble.  I didn't say that, at all.  But we are in a house together.  Separate rooms, yeah -- now I'm getting in trouble.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Back to the birds.   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  Yeah, an aviary next door.  Got an aviary next door, parakeets.  They are lovely in the morning at four o'clock.  It's a three-bedroom house.  It's the next door neighbor's.   
  
  Q.  What time did the birds wake you up?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  I think they woke me up about five o'clock.  Are I only went to sleep about four or so, not really.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us about your professional career to date?   
REBECCA HUDSON:  From '03.  Should do -- you have my pro resume?  Struggled in 2003 and '04.  Really, I missed team golf and I missed playing with team members and it took me a while to kind of get used to life on Tour and how to do my tax returns and lots of different things.   
 Late '05, okay, I shot 10-under in Hungary and came out last year and then won in Hungary and it was since I shot that 10-under in Hungary I just realised that, okay, just play golf and make sure everything around you is good and happy.   
 I don't know, it just changed and I just started playing good golf.   
  
  Q.  Why do you think it took so long to settle as a professional?   
REBECCA HUDSON:  Just so many things I missed about the amateur game.  When you hole a putt on the last, you're not just playing for yourself; you're playing for your teammates and you're playing for others, as well as yourself.   
 When you turn pro, yeah, your friends are still there, but the end of the day you have to beat everyone whether you're friends or not.  At the end of the day, they will always be your friends but you're not playing with them and for them.  You're playing for yourself and for your living.   
  
  Q.  After a great amateur career, do you think your expectations were too high and that affected you?   
REBECCA HUDSON:  I didn't.  Lots of people did.  I just wanted to go out and play golf as well as I can and to hit every shot as well as I can.  Kind of always knew if I played well I'd be up here and win a tournament maybe.  It was just a change I think more than anything.   
  
  Q.  When did you begin to feel you could succeed as a pro?   
REBECCA HUDSON:  When I shot that 10-under -- no, I shot 10-under in Hungary, and it just gave me a lot of confidence just to move forward from that.   
 The end of 2006, I started playing well, and once you play well and you realise that you can play against the girls on Tour and that you're just playing golf -- that was '05, sorry.  I came out in 2006 and just played really, really well.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel you didn't belong in the pro ranks?   
REBECCA HUDSON:  It was more of a fact I was going out and I kind of didn't have anything to play for.  I wasn't playing to my team and I wasn't playing for other people.  I was playing for myself.  It was like, okay, I need to earn a living here.  I've got to find something to play for to give me the motivation to do it.   
 I like doing thing for other people and I like -- I enjoy being part of something.  Maybe I should have played football to or something, being a team all the time.  But it was a long time to think, okay, you've got to do this to earn a living and to get through.   
  
  Q.  Did you not feel comfortable on Tour?   
REBECCA HUDSON:  Just more of finding something to play for.  I don't know what it was, I think it's just a bit different -- if I go in, I finish this, or I finish this.  When you're playing teams, if it goes in, my teammate gets to play and we get to qualify in a high position and there's always something to play for.   
  
  Q.  Did you have a sponsor?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  No, for the first two years I worked in a hotel in Doncaster in the winter just to fill in to earn enough money to come back on Tour.   
  
  Q.  Even though you had such a successful amateur career, you couldn't get sponsors?   
REBECCA HUDSON:  I went with IMG when I first turned pro and I was part of a group of golfers that we did get a little bit, but no, never really had a sponsor.  PING are very good and they have always helped me with equipment, but not given me money.   
  
  Q.  Did you work in the hotel last winter?   
REBECCA HUDSON:  Yeah, I worked.  I was restaurant supervisor, which I very much enjoyed in the winter.  I like my time away from my golf.  It's like a little bit of a break and when I needed to, I was working silly hours.  I was working 75, 80 hours a week to earn enough.  That was probably '04 and '05.   
  
  Q.  Have you looked for any sponsors?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  I haven't gone out and looked for it.  I maybe did to start.  As you know, I wanted to base myself in Europe.  So I haven't really gone out and pushed and looked for anything.  The European Tour is getting stronger and stronger now and I think people will eventually start looking for lady golfers and sponsorship so maybe if I start looking, they will come to me.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  You had nine straight pars on the front nine and picked up three shots on the back nine.  Can you talk us through the birdies, starting at 11?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  Yeah, 11 was playing 174 to the pin.  You don't go in the bunker and you don't go big.   
 So I just hit a rescue on to the slope behind the pin and luckily it came back to three-foot and I holed that.   
 16, really pleased with.  16 is just a tough hole.  It played left on the second and I hit 5-iron to 15 foot and holed the putt.   
 17, that's playing quite easy.  I hit a driver and a rescue on to the front right edge and then 2-putted.  Nasty pin position, that one.  It just at the top of the slope.  And I holed about a 20-footer for par on the second.  But that was quite relaxing and enjoyable.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever got round without dropping a shot before?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  When?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  Yeah not long ago.  Yeah, I've done it a couple of times this year.   
 Maybe in France.  Might have been in France.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever gone round here without being in a bunker before?   
REBECCA HUDSON:  Yes, I think so, a few times.  Not long enough to get in them .   
  
  Q.  Did you work at the restaurant last year?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  I did last season.  As I say I enjoyed the work and I enjoyed the friends.  I made a lot of friends there.   
 Off the record, I don't think the new restaurant manager likes me, so I don't think she'll have me back.  (Laughter) A new lady is taking over and she knows I'm better at it than her; she doesn't like me.  I definitely won't be going back there then.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Your confidence has been growing over the last couple of years.  How will a round like this make it go even higher?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  Yeah, I played well and with the Solheim coming up -- I played well with the top Americans in the field. That's got. I just want to show that I can do it and I just want to show that I can compete and do what I can to get on that Solheim Cup.   
 It's just one round of golf though, you have to put it into perspective. Round here everything can change in one hole. You can get in a bunker and it can all go in one hole very, very quickly.  So I'm just going to take it one shot at a time, enjoy it, enjoy the support I've got from my home golf club and just see how it goes.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  You have a lot of supporters.   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  Yeah, I have quite a few, a good few.  I'm quite a distance from my home club, so it's nice.   
  
  Q.  Where are you on the Solheim Cup points table?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  Eight.  There's a group of us that are very, very close.   
  
  Q.  What would it mean for you to make the Solheim Cup team?   
 REBECCA HUDSON:  Well, yeah, it would mean a lot.  All of the girls would do anything to get on that team.  I would love to be on that team.  Just have to see how it goes.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Rebecca, thank you very much, indeed.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT