CURTIS CUP MATCH
August 2, 2002
Pam Benka
Alison Coffey
Rebecca Hudson
Vikki Laing
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 RHONDA GLENN:  Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our first media conference for the 2002 Curtis Cup match.  We'd like to welcome right-to-left Captain Pam Benka of Great Britain and Ireland.  She's also married to Peter Benka chairman of the R&A Selection Committee, interesting note.  Pam two-time Curtis Cup player, she was British Girl's Champion in 1964 and the French girl's Champion in 1965. 
Alison Coffey, 29 years old, who is a civil engineer from Belfast, Northern Ireland, Irish Match Play champion twice, Espirito Santo Trophy in 2000 and runner-up in the British Ladies Open stroke-play in 2001. 
Rebecca Hudson from Doncaster, Yorkshire, England, her third Curtis Cup appearance, British Match Play Championship twice, British stroke-play championship twice, English Match Play Champion, English stroke-play Champion and Scottish stroke-play champion. 
And Vikki Laing 21 from Musselburgh, Midlothian, Scotland, Welsh stroke-play champion, Scottish International, and she is a sociology major at the University of California Berkeley. 
Pam, how are you trying to prepare your team this week as far as the conditions, the heat, and no wind, something you seldom face in your part of the world.
CAPTAIN BENKA:  As the conditions, we knew before we came that it could be hot, so they knew to bring lots of water and to keep eating around the golf course so we hope we covered that and we hope that they will continue to do it.  If not, I will be reminding them most of the times I see them.
RHONDA GLENN:  How are you preparing your team facing these conditions?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  How am I preparing you?  Well, no, we have -- I don't know, we have tested the golf course.  It's a different sort of grass here so we have tried to take account of that.  Just how we would do really for a normal tournament anywhere else, we just are taking the factors that we have here and try and address them as best we can. 
RHONDA GLENN:  Have you ever played in the United States before, Alison? 
ALISON COFFEY:  No, first time I actually played in a tournament golf in the States, but I did come out to Florida in May time to practice for two weeks so that has really helped me coming here first. 
RHONDA GLENN:  What does our type of conditions -- what does that force you to do with your game?  Are you able to pretty much stick to your game?
ALISON COFFEY:  At home this time of year most courses we play on have a lot more run-out than here because they dry out and they are not watered so well.  So it's really target golf here and hit the ball a yardage, it stops quickly, just it's just getting used to that. 
RHONDA GLENN:  Rebecca has played on two previous Curtis Cup teams.  How does this team compare as far as the mix, the personality, to the other two teams that you have played on? 
REBECCA HUDSON:  Every team is different.  You have different personalities in the team.  Different qualities of people in the team.  It is a great team.  Yes, there is only me an Emma that have been on the Curtis Cup before but really I don't think that's a factor.  We have all gone out there and prepared how we would normally prepare for any of the tournaments as individuals; we're individuals as one in the team. 
RHONDA GLENN:  Vikki, as a collegiate player in the States, do you know most of the players on the USA Curtis Cup team?
VIKKI LAING:  I know one or two of them.  I know almost all of them from collegiate golf, but most of them are on the East Coast, and I am based on the West Coast, so I know them by name.  I  know them by name, but I don't know them personally, but I have met a few of them at different tournaments.  So yeah, I know a few of them. 
RHONDA GLENN:  Thank you very much.  Questions from any of the reporters. 
Q.   Are you at U.S. berkley on a golf school scholorship?
VIKKI LAING:  Yes.

Q.   Have you marched in any protests yet?
VIKKI LAING:  No, but I have tried to avoid a few. 

Q.   Pam, can you talk about how you have seen the team coming together, how they have gelled together, things that you have been looking for when it comes to making your initial pairings for the weekend? 
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  I think we have an advantage in a way that we know all the players well because Great Britain and Ireland being smaller than America, it's always a difficult decision to decide who should play in foursomes.  In fact, it's taken us a long time to get that organized only because you come up with one formula; then you look at it again and you have another formula.   It really has been right up through last minute before we have done it.  But the girls all know each other well and they have all played with each other.  We're just keeping our fingers crossed that we have got it right. 

Q.   This being your third Curtis Cup team, do you feel less nervous this time around than you did the previous two, and is that Curtis Cup experience a benefit for this weekend? 
REBECCA HUDSON:  It's not that  -- I am actually probably slightly more nervous because I kind of  -- when I first played at Minniapolis, I didn't quite understand or know exactly what it was and now as I have got playing more I really want it more.  Not a nervous thing, it's just a wanting it, being here twice before, now we really have a good chance and want to go out there and do it.  It's more of an excitement.

Q.   What is it like playing here in the States and representing your country?  Is it an odd feeling for you?  What do you feel?  How do you approach it?
VIKKI LAING:  I think it is a great honor to be picked to play for your country.  It's something as an amateur, the Curtis Cup, I mean, it's really a prestigious tournament.  I am delighted to get picked to play in this tournament and I am just really looking forward to it.

Q.   Can you tell us a little bit about your job when you stopped -- I think you stopped for six months or so, just describe for us a day in the life of a civil engineer...
ALISON COFFEY:  At home I worked for a little local road authority.  It's known as a road service.  I have worked in everything from being out on sites, building (inaudible) and underpasss to designing or planning cycle paths, bus (inaudible) everything, really.  So it can be typically a 9 to 5 or when you are on site it could be seven days a week starting very early in the morning, finishing late at night.  But at the minute I have not worked, as you have said, for six months, just playing full-time golf and really enjoying myself but looking forward to getting back to work in September.

Q.    How does this compare to places that you guys play back at home? 
REBECCA HUDSON:  Playing in America and playing in Britain is two completely different things.  Even the inland courses, the majority of them are -- the courses are firmer.  If you have got 150 yards, you pitch it, 135 and hit it, bounce up to the pin, and run-out.  Here if you got 150 yards, pitch it 155 and bring it back to the pin.  And on the fairways you don't quite have the run that you get at home so where you want it to finish you aim instead of letting it take the contours of the fairways.  So it's just more attacking golf.  There are certain courses like that in England like the Wentworths, but it's good.  It is a different style of golf and I think it something we all enjoy.  It's the wonders of playing golf.  There's so many different things you do, it's never the same. 

Q.   That said Pam, does describing it as an attacking golf course does that make you want to gear back your players a little bit from their competitive juices?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  No.  They know how to deal with it.  They have all played on different surfaces  from different parts of the world, so they are ready for whatever exam they are given.

Q.   Is it a sabbatical or leave of absence  from work?  Is it unpaid or when do you   ---
ALISON COFFEY:  It's basically an unpaid leave for six months and I go back on I think it the 23rd of September.  Been off since March and enjoying the wonders of the world since then. 

Q.   How many rounds did your team play this week?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  We arrived in on Monday.  They did their yardages on Monday and they played on Tuesday and then spent some time hitting some shots on Wednesday.  Wednesday they played a round and then a few holes, foursomes, Thursday, played a round and a few and whatever they chose to do and today they have played and just  -- but all the time playing different shots from different positions trying get used to the different sort of rough, and things around the green.  And the pace of the greens is now quickening up also.  They have really got to look at those. 

Q.   In your collegiate play did you play against any of these American players? 
VIKKI LAING:  Yeah, Laura, she is also on the west course, University of Arizona so I have played a lot with her.  The others only ever really meet them in the National Championship in May is the only other time we ever see most of the East coast colleges.  Maybe regionals, but apart from that, it's mostly within your conference. 

Q.   Did you play against the A's this year?
VIKKI LAING:  Yes.

Q.   Finished where?
VIKKI LAING:  In the teens.  I think it was in the mid-teens, I am not quite sure.

Q.   Regard the golf course, are there any particular obstacles that stand out?  Any stretch of holes that you consider to be a turning point? 
ALISON COFFEY:  I think the last three holes on this course are very challenging and I think -- I mean, given the standard of golf on both the U.S. and our team, I think most of the matches are going to be decided on the last three holes.  They are going to play a big part in who wins this Curtis Cup, I think.
RHONDA GLENN:  Do you like the last three holes?  Are they favorable to you? 
ALISON COFFEY:  Yeah, I think we have practiced quite a lot around the whole golf course and we have paid particular attention to the last three.   I think we all like them.   They are great golf holes and if you play them well you get the results. 
RHONDA GLENN:  Would you like to answer that as well? 
REBECCA HUDSON:   I agree.  I just think the last three, four holes, that I mean, that's when it gets exciting and that's when it comes down to it.  They are really good testing holes.  The rest of the golf course is good, but they are very good golf holes, definitely for Match Play as well.  You can really, boy, we'll see some excitement.  The 17 green just screams out excitement really for something like this.  So it is going to be good, I am sure. 
VIKKI LAING:  Absolutely agree.  I think if you play them smart enough then it's all going to come down to the putting in the end, 17th green I think you are right will produce some excitement.  So yeah, I think just play them smart and hope to get the results. 

Q.   Pam, have you worked out any kind of strategy for the 17th hole?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  I am not telling you that.  (Laughter).

Q.   I was wondering what are some of the things you have done for fun off the golf course this week?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  I am not sure how much we can let you in on.  The whole time, we have really had a ball since we have been here.  I don't know whether you know that we started off at Buckingham Palace before we flew out here and had a cup of tea with His Royal Highness, Prince Andrew, then we went to Alleghany where we had a couple of days there.  We had Carol and Dick who were very gracious to have  us for supper there which was a fun, fun evening and then since last night we ate with the American side, just very casually, that was another lovely evening.  So we have had a lot of fun since we have been here.  It's just a shame that the serious golf has got to start tomorrow. 

Q.   Any of the players can address the 17th hole, in your practice rounds have you tried to hit a shot to the very front and then to the very back and was the difference in clubs between those two? 
VIKKI LAING:  I think to the front I think it's 165 or something to the front of the green, I think that greens plays 65 long, so I mean, you are talking an average club probably about 10 yards, so to the front, I'd probably play maybe a 5-, or 6-iron anything up to a 3-wood to the back, so I mean, it plays pretty different.  It going to be a huge factor where the pin is put.  So, yeah, it an interesting green. 

Q.   Any of you -- how would you play if you were in a trough, would you putt in, chip in, 3-wood it?
VIKKI LAING:  I think I definitely would putt it.  I can't speak for everyone else. 
ALISON COFFEY:  Yeah, I think most of us have been putting this week any time we have been in the trough.  Tried quite a few shots from there and I think the preferred method by all of us is putting.

Q.   How would you describe your team and were you all -- did you get together back home prior to the tournament and what types of things did you do then to try to bring them together?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  We had a squad of 20 and we went on an outward bound course and somebody of my age, that's not a great thrill.  (Laughter).
I ab sailed up-and-down a waterfall, had to select a piece of a jug-saw, stuff it in my teeth and come back up.  Then I had to sleep out all night and most of my team had a mattress and a sleeping back.  I was too late to get a sleeping bag.  When I got it there were no mattresses left.  I know who talks in their sleep, who went to the loo, who had a drink of water, and in the morning some of them said, I had a good night sleep, I had four mattresss.  I said:  Sleep?  It's not an adjective I had.  So anyway, that was very good fun and then we had to build two rafts out of a canoe -- one raft out of two canoes.  It was great fun.  That was a sort of a start to getting the group together.  Then we had a weekend at Wentworth Golf Club and then after that the group was picked and then we had a match, Peter McEvoy who was Walker Cup Captain, he got a team of men to play with us. It was a sort of a serious fun day where I negotiated the shots, so we easily came out on the winning side. 

Q.   How would you describe your team?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  They are tremendous  -- they are actually --they are all individuals and they have all -- they have -- we have really had a real good time.  Everybody has contributed 100% and I really mean that.  I mean, but they are a grand bunch.  They made my job very easy and a real delight. 

Q.   I don't understand why you chose any of them in if they didn't give you a mattress?
CAPTAIN BENKA:  Well, the problem is, I wasn't a selector.
RHONDA GLENN:  When you went to Buckingham Palace were you given any kind of official recognition?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  Yes, the Walker Cup went there before they flew out, and I just got onto the R&A and Peter Dorsen, phoned him up to say could he fix it up for us as well.  Then they got onto the Palace and then came back a week ago and off we went and we had -- I don't know whether you know Buckingham Palace, there is a balcony where they all pop out to waive to the masses and we had a cup of tea in the room behind that and you -- you are not allowed to twitch the curtains in case everybody thinks something is going on in the Palace.  We stood behind there and peered down and things like that.  It was a lovely occasion. 
RHONDA GLENN:  At this time, we'll excuse the team.  Thank you so much for being with us.  Good luck in your matches.  And Pam will remain with us for a few minutes.  We'll talk to her about foursomes pairing. 
I guess the initial question would be how did you arrive at these particular pairings?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  Well the first Rebecca and Emma come from the same county of Yorkshire.  Have competed a lot against each other in finals and stuff like that and just during the time we have been here they are a very solid pair together and I think that's what we needed, a solid pair to go out and lead our team.  Seen them play, Meredith and Angela.  Obviously going to be a very tough match for our girls.  American Team is very strong, I mean we haven't come here thinking that it isn't.  But we're -- every match is, you know, we're up for whatever examination the girls have been given.
Heather Stirling and Vikki Laing both Scotts, and again they are very comfortable in each other's company which I think that's probably one of the nice things about playing foursomes that you need to be comfortable with whoever you are playing with.  And I can't understand what Heather says anyway, so it was easier to pair two Scotts together.
Kerry and Alison have played together in the (inaudible) which is the same British and Irish team and we play against the continent so they are sort of tried one addition Irish girl.  Alison,  she is -- everybody loves playing with her because she just  -- as you saw here from the press interview, what you see is what you get.  There's no other side to her.  She just is a solid performer and just full of heart and will just be there for her partner, and they formed a very easy partnership as well.  So that's why I came up with that as our third pair. 
RHONDA GLENN:  Do you try as well as the friendship and congeniality, do you try to pair like game with like game.
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  Yes, I think sometimes people in the past have said, oh, well, because somebody doesn't hit it as far, I put that person with a longer hitter but then I think sometimes you are playing shots from where you wouldn't normally play shots.  So although having said that Rebecca and Emma they understand each other's game.  During the time we have been here we have played so many different combinations of girls together just in friendly situations and even at Allegheny when we played in fourballs we were sort of tossing the mixup with looking at who looked comfortable with whom.  That's what we came  -- we were scratching our heads even to sort of yesterday because we had one thought and then we thought no, no, we'll try something else, but then suddenly I thought no, no, I know  exactly what I want to do.  That's what I am going to go with.  So that's what we have done. 

Q.   How much input did the players have?  They would approach you and say maybe I want to play with this girl?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  Not at all.  No.  Although, having said there's no input, I did ask a couple of the girls how they felt.  I mean, senior girls because I think it's crazy not to  -- sometimes, I mean some captains I think people like Peter McEvoy, he knew exactly what he wanted, and okay, I mean, my husband was - - it's different in the men's game because the chairman of selectors such as my husband was sort of his right-hand man, so they would go around and chew things over.  I don't know how much involvement that the players actually had but I just take (Inaudible) to be honest.  I wasn't going to be that influenced by the players.  On the other hand I wanted them to be comfortable with who they were -- I thought I was going to pair them with.

Q.   Teams together on Sunday?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  I have no idea.  I am going to judge each round of golf as a separate round of golf.  So really depends on how it goes tomorrow morning as to what I will do on Sunday.

Q.   How about the singles, how will you determine those?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  It has to be in at 12 o'clock  so a lot of thinking tonight.  I think it every Captain's wish to play all her players and the sooner-- it's lovely to do it on the first day.  The only thing I am not going to say to the players, oh, yes, you are all definitely going to play tomorrow in case somebody wakes up and they have, you know,  -- I would love to be able to get them all on the golf course tomorrow, but I am  -- there are no guarantees. 

Q.   During the year how many opportunities do they have to play foursomes? 
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  Well, we have counties at home, and they  -- that's involved then.  They play foursomes in the morning and Singles in the afternoon then we play national  -- Scotland Ireland, the home Internationals they are called again you played foursomes and then singles.  But that would be it really.

Q.   But they easily have a handful of opportunities a year to compete in this format?
CAPTAIN PAM BENKA:  Yes, they used to say well, you must be better at it than anybody else because you play more of it.  But sometimes I think the reverse is true because we  -- I think it is better to play alternate shot.  The ball is there.  It is your to turn hit.  You must do what you do with the ball.  Sometimes we're inclined to ask everybody's  opinion; then you get muddled when you get there.  (Inaudible)  I think we have to get back to really playing it like you Americans do, it's alternate shot, therefore, you are not confused by something  -- only ask for advice when you are not sure rather than have a little huddle every time somebody is going to hit the ball.
RHONDA GLENN:  Thank you so much for your time, and for your good answers.  We would ask that these are not to be officially released until 6 o'clock, so for the American press we'd like to embargo the pairings until 6 o'clock tonight, please. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT