AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v RAYS
October 10, 2010
David Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Tampa Bay Rays 5
  Texas Rangers  2 
   
  Q. Dave, after what happened in Game 1 how much are you looking forward to this second opportunity here in Game 5?   
 DAVID PRICE: I am looking forward to it a lot. That was big. I'd rather have not thrown again this series. After we lost the first one I was hoping we would reel off three in a row; that wasn't the case. We battled back yesterday and today and that was big. They got me back on the mound on Tuesday, so I appreciate it.   
  
  Q. David, what did you learn from Game 1? And what are you planning to do?   
 DAVID PRICE: Learn they will swing 3-0. That's for sure. I will not change anything up. I don't feel I had my good stuff on Wednesday and I am looking forward to coming in on Tuesday with my better stuff.   
  
  Q. Knowing how competitive you are and how a high standard you set for yourself, how much is that eating at you, the first game of the series, the last three or four days until these guys pulled through?   
 DAVID PRICE: It was pretty rough. It stung a little bit.  
I definitely wanted to give us a better chance to win. I wanted to throw better for myself. I wasn't able to do that. And they got the ball back in my behind and I appreciate that. And I am looking to coming in on Tuesday and throwing a good game for us.   
  
  Q. I don't know if you will want to use the word "momentum," do you guys have momentum?   
 DAVID PRICE: You have to think we do, absolutely. They came in and won the first two games at our place, and then we came in their place in a hostile environment and won two games. We battled back late yesterday and our bats came alive all game today. That was huge. We've been struggling a little bit as a team pitching, defense and hitting. And the last 12 innings we really kind of gelled together and it has showed.   
  
  Q. David, is this almost like a dream match-up, being able to face them in Game 1, being able to face a guy like Cliff Lee in a winner-take-all game.  
 DAVID PRICE: Yes and no. I mean it is. Obviously I don't want to have to pitch against a guy like Cliff Lee every time. But it's fun, it is. This is what you grow up as little kids seeing, growing up watching all the games, the postseason games and World Series games, and you see match-ups like this. Now that I get to be a part of one, I need to kind of grasp it and take control of it and give us a chance to win.   
  
  Q. David, can you draw on your experience from when you did pitch in Game 7? The role was different, but can you draw on that experience to maybe help get you ready for another winner-take-all game?   
 DAVID PRICE: Yeah, I mean every bit of postseason experience I had before this I can take something away from. This is loser goes home. This is a very big game for us. Everybody knows that. But I'm not trying to do too much I will try to stick to my game plan and see what works.   
  
  Q. Dave you asked about how you guys, you and starting pitchers feed off each other. Talk about what Garza did and Wade did today and how that can help you out.  
 DAVID PRICE: They did a great job. Garza and Wade both, and the 'pen came in and shut the door down. That was big. They got ahead and I felt they did the best. They got ahead and put people away when they needed to. When runners got on they shut the door. When we scored they went out and got the shut-down inning. That's all keys we have all talked about and that's stuff they were able to do, and that's why they were successful.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, David.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT