MLB WORLD SERIES: DODGERS VS RED SOX
October 24, 2018
David Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Dodgers - 2    Red Sox - 4   
 Q.  Yesterday you talked about a lighter feeling that you were carrying just because of your recent success.  How did that manifest itself today in terms of getting ready and in terms of being out there?  
DAVID PRICE: I just tried to keep it the same.  Same as in Houston, the same as in every other game.  Don't put any added pressure or anything of that nature.  Just go out there and throw strikes and execute pitches and rely on my defense, and that's what we were able to do.   
 Q.  Talk about how the guys extended that two-out rally to get two runs for you there.  
DAVID PRICE: I think we've been a very good offense all year long with two outs.  And that's tough to do, whenever that pitcher is one pitch away from being out of an inning, and be able to have nobody on base with two outs and to start a rally like that, that can deflate teams, so that's huge.   
 Q.  Fourth inning, after you hadn't allowed a hit through the first three innings, bases loaded, no one out, to get out of that with just the two runs, what do you and your son think of that, how important that was?  
DAVID PRICE: That was very important.  I just told myself to continue to make pitches.  I made a lot of good pitches that inning.  They hit some.  Took some.  That was a tough inning, it could have spun out of control pretty fast.  And it's been one of my Achilles heels especially in the playoffs and even in the regular season, is that big inning.  Being able to stop it at two right there after the Puig hit to center, that was big for us.   
 Q.  I guess sort of on that topic, after you allowed the two runs, you locked it down from there.  For the third time through the order, did you change anything in terms of your sequencing at that point or was it just that you were that sharp at that point?  
DAVID PRICE: No, I was pretty sharp.  My fastball command, that's the key for me.  Fastball command is always the key.  And it started from pitch one to Dozier.  He's a hitter that's done some good damage against me in his career.  That's the first hitter I faced in a Red Sox uniform.  And that was my first hitter in Spring Training in 2016.  Waxed a double off the Monster in Ft. Myers.  So to be able to control him tonight that was big.   
 Q.  Alex was just here a few minutes ago and said you were, in his words, really into it tonight.  And he mentioned you speaking to an umpire between innings, and also a smile on your face when you finished off the sixth inning.  Can you speak to that.  And were you really as into it as he suggests?  
DAVID PRICE: Yeah, sure.  I mean, it's the World Series.  If you're not into it, you should probably go home.  So I was into it.   
 Q.  I'm curious about the song you used for the walk-up.  Is there a reason you picked that song?  
DAVID PRICE: I've come out to it for quite a while now.  It's a song that Swihart sung to me the night before I pitched.  He said, "You should walk out to this."  I listened to it, I loved it, walked out to it, end of story.   
 Q.  You were talking about you felt like you got over a hump with the win in Houston.  What does winning a World Series game mean in the career context?  
DAVID PRICE: It's huge.  This is the biggest stage in baseball.  There's no other stage that's going to be bigger than pitching in a World Series game, unless it's Game 7 of the World Series.  To be able to do that, it feels good, for sure.  I'm pumped for myself, pumped for all my teammates and coaches for us to be two wins away, and I'm 2-0 right now in the World Series, that's a good feeling.   
 Q.  So you've been here three full years now, what's it like at Fenway Park in late October when you win a game?  
DAVID PRICE: Cold (laughter).   
 Q.  Nights like tonight, is this why you decided to come to the Red Sox years ago?  And is it sweeter for you given the adversity and the disappointment with the injury last year and stuff that you've had to overcome to get to this point?  
DAVID PRICE: Yeah, I mean, 108 wins in the regular season, beating the Yankees in the ALDS, and beating the reigning champs in the ALCS and being up 2-0, this is part of the reason I came here, absolutely.  We won the AL East the last three years and a Boston team had never won it back-to-back years; it blows me away.   
For us to do it three times and be where we are right now, that's absolutely the reason why I came here.   
 Q.  Seeing how much of the story line going into the postseason was about your October, but also about Clayton Kershaw's.  I wonder if you know him at all from All-Star Games or anywhere else, and what sympathy you might have from him, given you have been the two that dealt with this unfortunate label for so long?  
DAVID PRICE: He'll be fine.  He's a Hall of Famer.  He'll be fine.   
 Q.  You mentioned yesterday about in the spring, you talked about winning the Grapefruit and everything that AC was talking about.  What's it been like to get to this year?  You've watched him operate as a manager and get this squad to where they are now.  
DAVID PRICE: He's been awesome.  Starting before Spring Training even started, carrying through Spring Training games and then through 162 games and through the playoffs, he hasn't changed.  He hasn't altered either way.  He hasn't gotten too low or too high.  When I see him in the dugout, he's just walking around having conversations with guys.  Sometimes it's about baseball and what's going on and sometimes it's completely different stuff, not baseball related.  And for him to be able to separate the two with everybody in our clubhouse, that's very unique.   
 Q.  On the length of games, tonight's game was the quickest of the postseason.  Do these games seems longer to you than when you started your career?  And did tonight's go by any faster?  
DAVID PRICE: I think there's three minutes in between innings for commercials and every pitch is so big, you're not going to go out there and rush through pitches.  You're taught ever since you were a little kid to be able to slow the game down, and now baseball wants to speed it up.  I don't care, I'm taking my time.  I know I'm slow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT