AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS VS RED SOX
October 14, 2018
David Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Red Sox - 7, Astros - 2
THE MODERATOR: Questions for David Price.
Q. Your thoughts as you were leaving to the standing ovation there in the fifth?
DAVID PRICE: It's definitely appreciated.  It wasn't the line I dreamed up to have tonight.  But our offense, our defense, everybody rallied together.  That's what we've done all year.  Whenever starters needed to be picked up, they picked us up and vice versa.  So that was big.
Q. You got yourself in a couple of tough spots.  Obviously the first inning you got out of after a couple of walks, had a bit of tough -- what were your thoughts when you saw Springer's ball drop in there?  That was about as tough as a hit you could give up on the two-run single there.
DAVID PRICE: Next pitch.  Just make a pitch on that next guy.  And that's what I was able to do.  To get out of that inning was big with Altuve hitting and Springer on second.  So just next pitch.
Q. I think after that first inning you sort of disappeared in the dugout for a second.  Was there anything emotional going -- what was the mindset right there?
DAVID PRICE: I do that every inning.  I go down to the bottom after every inning.
Q. How did you feel about your ability to command your full mix, particularly in getting the fastball in and being able to locate the cutter where you were able to?
DAVID PRICE: Pretty good for the most part.  Just missed on quite a few.  And I'd rather miss where I did as opposed to the middle of the plate.  So continue to move forward, keep making pitches and trying to help us win.
Q. Can you talk about the job the bullpen did tonight?
DAVID PRICE: Tremendous.  Coming in and getting those last 13 outs, that's huge.  For Barnes and Brasier and Porce to come in, it's different for him.  And for him to do what he's done for us as a bullpen guy in the playoffs and obviously his start in New York.  He's been a key for us.
Q. Even if it wasn't seven innings, one run, do you feel you showed something that you hadn't before in your time as a Red Sox start?  Will you enjoy these next few days than the last few days?
DAVID PRICE: We won.  That's my first team win as a starter.  So if it's baby steps, it's baby steps.  I expect to win.  But I'm very happy that we won.
Q. The shut-down inning after you guys take the lead, your fourth inning, how important was that to you and how good did that feel to get that inning?
DAVID PRICE: That was big.  Going back to the second inning when I had an opportunity to have a shut-down inning and wasn't able to do that, giving up the two-out double to Springer, that stung.  But to be able to go out there in that fourth and to have a clean inning, that was good for myself and good for our team.
Q. You mentioned how Alex telling you were the Game 2 starter right after you clinched meant a lot.  Did he say anything to you after this start?
DAVID PRICE: No, I'll be ready for Tuesday -- I think Tuesday.
Q. As Alex is coming out to get you it looked like you were intently talking to Vazquez.  Was that getting him going type of thing, what was that interaction?
DAVID PRICE: Just talking.  Put my glove up for a reason so you guys couldn't see it.  I'll keep it between us.
Q. Not too many changeups early but more as the game went on.  Was that a feel thing, or was that game plan?
DAVID PRICE: A feel thing.  It was good in warmups.  The first couple I threw in the game weren't that good.  But just trying to battle with what I had today.  And that's what we did.  And that was just a huge win by us tonight against a very good team.
Q. Not the line you imagined but the result you imagined.  Does it feel as good as you imagined?
DAVID PRICE: It does.  You can ask any of my teammates, for the 10 years I've been in the Big Leagues or coaches or anybody that's been around me, all I want to do is win.  I expect myself to be great in big moments, and I haven't done that thus far in my career.  But I came here to win, period.  I came here to win a World Series and to do it multiple times.  And that's what I'm about.
I put myself aside.  This isn't about me.  I understand the narratives.  I get that.  I deserve those narratives.  But this is bigger than David Price.  This isn't about me.  This is about the Boston Red Sox.
Q. Mookie had struggled a little bit early in the postseason, not quite his usual self.  Had a couple of doubles today, started to come alive a little bit.  What does that mean for you guys going forward?
DAVID PRICE: He's Mookie Betts.  He's the MVP of our team.  He's the MVP of baseball.  So he means a great deal for us.  But he knows if he's not swinging the bat as well as he thinks he should be, he knows that his defense in right field makes up for that.
So he never takes his at-bats out into the field.  He continues to make really good defensive plays and that's what we need from Mookie.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT