AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS VS RED SOX
October 13, 2018
David Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions for David Price.
Q. You haven't thrown a lot of innings lately.  Just what have you been doing to stay sharp?  And are you concerned you might be a little rusty?
DAVID PRICE: Just playing catch.  Playing catch by the way that you pitch.  Playing catch with Brenly every day.  He gets down -- just still at 60 feet, just playing catch to somebody that's down still kind of emulates that.  So still 60 feet, 6 inches and I don't think I'll be rusty.
Q. I spoke to Coach Corbin today and he said if I needed one pitcher to win one game at any level for all the marbles, he goes, I'd choose David Price.  Can you tell me, first of all, what he means to you, briefly?  And then what his confidence in you means?
DAVID PRICE: Coach Corbin for me, he did a lot, just took me in, as he does everybody else that goes to Vanderbilt.  And he doesn't have any sons.  So he treats all of his players like we're his sons.  He always has that confidence in us whenever we are there and after we leave that program.
So Coach Corbin and I have a very special bond, just that mutual respect and love between the two of us.  And for him to have that confidence in me, it means a lot.
Q. You have one of the best records since the second half.  What adjustments should you do to be in form tomorrow?
DAVID PRICE: Execute pitches.  I know I say that a lot.  But that's what I need to do.  The fastball command on both sides of the plate and then go from there.  So go out there, command the fastball, and then execute everything else.
Q. What's the biggest thing you've learned about pitching in the postseason that you don't necessarily know before you do it?
DAVID PRICE: I don't know.  That's a tough question.  I don't really have an answer.  I feel like I've given some answers the past eight years.  But I really don't have an answer for it.  But I mean it's different baseball.  It is.  It's fun.  I enjoy it.  Haven't been successful the way that I know I can be and will be, but I look forward to getting out there tomorrow.
Q. I'm sure you expected it but what did it mean to you when Alex said, yep, he's our guy, we're going to go with him in Game 2?
DAVID PRICE: It's good.  I did expect to make more starts for us in this year's playoffs.  But Alex told me before we even got off the field that night.  So for him to tell me before we even took our jerseys off to put on our postseason shirts that we get when we win, that was special.
Q. What one or two batters must you stop Sunday night?
DAVID PRICE: Bregman.  He does a lot for that offense.  And then Springer sets the tone really well.  Those two guys, I mean obviously you can't look over anybody in their lineup -- Altuve obviously, he's last year's MVP; Correa.  They've got a very powerful lineup and you've got to focus on all nine.
Q. How do you balance a consistent approach versus having to tear it up and try something completely different if you are struggling?
DAVID PRICE: Belief.  You know, you've got to have faith in yourself knowing that you're going to bounce back, you're going to match pitches and you're going to help your team win.
Q. There's been a couple of times, back to Tampa Bay Toronto, only a couple of times you've made a second start in the postseason.  To your recollection, was that different at all than your first start when you're waiting because you're in a little more of a routine?  Do you remember those second starts and what the difference was as far as the playoffs go?
DAVID PRICE: I do remember them.  I don't feel like there's any difference, no.  I mean, if you get to play in the Wild Card game or any other playoff games, I think it's different baseball.  But I don't think one playoff game differs from another in that aspect.
Q. How do you counter act the cold given that it's hard to simulate before it happens?
DAVID PRICE: Just try and stay warm before.  The game make sure you've got a good ladder going.  Don't get too much because whenever you step outside it can probably work the opposite direction.  But just get loose and get warm inside and just carry that on to the field.
Q. Does it affect grip?
DAVID PRICE: It can, yeah.
Q. I know you're friendly with Sonny Gray.  And yesterday Brian Cashman said he thought he would be a better pitcher if he didn't pitch in New York.  He thought it was a bad place for him.  I'm curious your reaction, is it about that?  And also just is it tough when narratives are said about you as a player or a pitcher to fight back against them whether it's troubles you have against certain teams or certain situations with everybody goes through it seems?
DAVID PRICE: I think Sonny's a really good pitcher.  He struggled this year for New York, but it's tough.  It's a tough place to pitch.  And I feel for him.  I talk to him all the time.  But Sonny's going to bounce back next year and have a really good season wherever he's at.  I forget the second half of your question.
Q. Places like Boston and New York, tough places to fight those kind of narratives, like for Sonny it was tough in New York when he wasn't doing well, people said he couldn't pitch there.  In your case, too, you've had a couple of times against the Yankees it's been a tough thing for you, stuff like that.
DAVID PRICE: I mean, it's tough markets to pitch in.  I think I've probably pitched against New York more than any other team in my career.  So I think that's a little bit different for Sonny.  He got to the East last year.  It's a tough division.
I feel like it's something that you get a little better with time.  But this division does a really good job of making adjustments, hitters and pitchers both.  So you always have to be kind of switching things up and just evolving.
Q. Billy mentioned that Coach Corbin and his thoughts.  How much at this point in your career do you rely on, do you speak to certain people when you get ready for certain starts that you've always relied on, that you know kind of give you that confidence when you take to the mound?
DAVID PRICE: I mean, yeah.  I have -- I mean, there's probably six or seven people that I'm going to speak to the day that I pitch.
And it's the same people every five days.  So it's cool.  I enjoy it.  It's part of my routine.  And Coach Corbin is -- he's always a staple for me.
Q. Have you gotten to know Tony Kemp since both of you guys went through the Vanderbilt program?
DAVID PRICE: Yeah, Tony, he's a Nashville guy.  He went to Centennial.  Played a lot of baseball against his older brother.  He was the best hitter I saw growing up.  But, yeah, Tony, we know each other extremely well.  Him and Sonny are very good friends.
I see him in the offseason working out at Vandy and just around town.  But I like Tony.  (Indiscernible) he gets those hits when I came out of that game for those two runs.  I didn't like that.
Q. We ask Boston fans.  Just curious last few days if you were out and about if you heard anything particular, if it was mean or nice or what it was like?
DAVID PRICE: Everything has been good from fans.  Out and about.  Just warming up in the bullpen.  Going out to the bullpen.  They've supported me the entire year.  I feel like it's been good.
Q. Anything you can share that you heard from anybody?
DAVID PRICE: Go get 'em.  (Laughter).
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT