AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES VS RED SOX
October 6, 2018
David Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Yankees - 6  Red Sox - 2   
 Q.  Obviously with your history in the playoffs just how disappointing was that start for you?  
DAVID PRICE: It's tough.  You know, just after we won Game 1 to go out there and have that opportunity to go up 2-0.  And to throw the baseball the way that I did, it was definitely tough.   
But my spirits aren't down, my confidence isn't down.  I'm looking forward to getting back out there and getting another opportunity.   
 Q.  David, how surprised were you, if at all, to be taken out of the game at that point so early in the game?  
DAVID PRICE: It's the playoffs.  You see it happen all the time, especially over the past couple of years.  Managers go into bullpens extremely early.  If I don't like it, I need to pitch better, period.   
 Q.  In the situation in a five-game series, when do you think you can come back to pitch again?  
DAVID PRICE: One day.   
 Q.  David, what do you think led to your command issues tonight?  
DAVID PRICE: I'm not sure.  I didn't execute enough pitches, and that was that.  They make it tough for me.  Knowing that, you have to go out there and execute pitches in big spots in counts.  And that's something I wasn't able to do tonight.   
 Q.  David, the at-bat to Gardner, how difficult was that for you?  It looked like you might have had him struck out.  Very close pitch on ball three.  How difficult was that for you to kind of recompose yourself and try to focus?  
DAVID PRICE: It wasn't tough.  I just tried to focus on that next pitch.  And I felt like I did that.  I wasn't able to execute that pitch.  You know, he took it, it was ball four.  And McCutchen hit the ball off the Monster.  That was the end of it.   
 Q.  David, you were outstanding in the postseason last year working out of the bullpen.  Would you consider making bullpen appearances this postseason?  
DAVID PRICE: I just want to win.  That's it.  My main goal is to win in the playoffs, to win a World Series.  Whatever I have to do to help us do that, I'm fine with.  I said it last year and I'll say it again, I want to win.  I want to win a World Series.  And whatever I need to do to help us do that, I'm fine with.  But I know I'm more than capable of winning games as a starter in October.  That's what I look forward to doing.   
 Q.  Just the two home runs, the single to McCutchen and the two home runs, those were cutters all three?  
DAVID PRICE: The homers were cutters.  And the single was a fastball.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT