AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES VS RED SOX
October 5, 2018
David Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  David, what do you think about the postseason in your career that will help you Saturday?  
DAVID PRICE: Just focus on every pitch.  Take it pitch by pitch.  Don't worry about the last one.  Don't think about the next one.  Just focus on that pitch.   
 Q.  Do you have to be careful not to put too much pressure on yourself to try and earn your first victory as a starter in the postseason?  How do you approach that?  
DAVID PRICE: Just another game.  Don't treat it any differently than any other game I've been a part of this year or in my career.  That's what I need to do tomorrow.  That's what I look forward to doing.   
 Q.  David, when you say that, does that mean in the past maybe you did do that, looked beyond the pitch by pitch when you to analyze --  
DAVID PRICE: No, I just don't have an answer for you guys (Laughter).  I've been asked that quite a while now.  I can't really put my finger on it.  That was my generic answer.   
 Q.  David, Alex just said that after the game in the Bronx when you gave up a bunch of home runs that was kind of a turning point for you, that gives him confidence going forward or gave him confidence going forward, because you were able to make the adjustments you said you were going to.  What did you learn from that start and how did you apply that going forward?  
DAVID PRICE: Move the ball around.  It's something I've done a really good job of in my career.  And at that point in this season I was really one side of the plate the entire -- for a while.  So to switch that back up, making pitches on both sides of the plate, that did a lot for me.   
 Q.  David, I know your focus is on tomorrow night's start, is it humbling to think you spent your whole life to get here and to get to this point.  It's two 100-win teams.  So much at stake and you're a featured part of it.  Stepping away from the game, is that humbling, you spent your childhood and everything to get to this point.  How much does it mean to be a featured part of it?  
DAVID PRICE: That's what we're thinking about in November and December when you're working out.  Getting ready for Spring Training.  You're going through Spring Training and waking up early and having 1:00 games every day.  Going through all that, and then playing 162 games to get to this point.  It is a very good feeling, but we want to have a better feeling at the end of the year.   
 Q.  David, you just said you want to keep it simple and keep the same routine.  In this environment, Yankees-Red Sox, first meeting in 2004, and all that, how difficult is it to stick to your routine when the level of media attention, everything else?  
DAVID PRICE: Honestly, I feel like it's pretty easy.  Just got a son now, he manages my time.  I don't really have a schedule; it's whatever he feels like doing we do.  So managing my time and what I hear and what I see and all that, that's easy.   
 Q.  David, when you get a chance to sit back and watch your team's offense and what they do to other pitchers, best offense in baseball this year, what makes the Red Sox so difficult for opposing pitchers to handle?  
DAVID PRICE: 1 through 9 they don't give up at-bats.  Doesn't matter what the score ask, what the inning is, who is on the mound for the opposing team.  They are always 1 through 9, grinds out at-bats.  600, 700 at-bats, it's easy to give away an at-bat here or there.  These guys they don't do that.  They see a lot of pitches.  Whenever they get behind in the count with two strikes, they foul off really good pitches to get to that pitch they can handle.   
These guys do a really good job of that.  They put in a lot of work, a lot of homework studying opposing pitchers and stuff like that.  And they swing the bats really well.   
 Q.  You obviously played a big role out of the bullpen last year against Houston.  Does it feel like a long wait since Cleveland two years ago to get another crack at this and be able to do this again?  
DAVID PRICE: Yeah.  It's been 300-something games, however long it's been.  It has been a while.  I look forward to getting back to that point, going out there and starting a baseball game and giving us a chance to win.   
 Q.  David, you've talked about your maturity and that ability to sort of keep all of this in perspective.  This team has been young over the last couple of playoff runs, losing in the first round.  Do you think this team has developed that same maturity, the ability to maybe put this in a better perspective than they have in the last couple of years?  
DAVID PRICE: Yeah.  This team has two more years of playoff experience under their belt, especially with our young group of guys who got to experience their first playoff atmosphere in 2016.  For us to be able to get back to that point last year and this year, it's two more years of experience under everybody's belt.  That helps everybody out.   
 Q.  Obviously, the team comes first.  What would it mean to you personally to win tomorrow night?  Do you think you would be accepted by the fans more than ever, if you win?  
DAVID PRICE: (Laughing)  Yeah, but if I lose the entire playoffs and we win a World Series, I'll take that.  That's what I'm here for.  I want to -- I don't want this to be about me and me not winning.  I want to go out there tomorrow and throw the ball well, and help the Red Sox win.  Whether we're up 1-0 or down 1-0 or whatever it is, I want the Red Sox to win tomorrow.  That's what I worry about.   
 Q.  David, there was some speculation during last year's postseason, I think mostly during the World Series, that the baseballs felt a little bit different.  Does the feel of the baseball, is that something you notice much of, and does it ever affect your pitch selection?  
DAVID PRICE: Yeah, I mean you feel it for sure.  I mean, it goes on in the regular season as well.  I don't feel like it's a whole lot different.  But I mean, it can affect what you're going to throw, yeah.  Absolutely.   
 Q.  David, after you had the circulation issue earlier in the year, how did you guys keep it in check?  And is there any worry that with cold weather it could crop up again?  
DAVID PRICE: No, I don't think so.  Just go out there and pitch.  Just don't worry about that.  Don't think about it.  I'll be all right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT