ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2018
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/D. Lajovic   
2-6, 7-5, 4-6, 6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How important is this of a mental victory after being down two sets to one and show everybody that you can turn it around?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: For me, this is important because I'm still in the tournament.  So I have a chance to still play here.  Obviously Dusan, at the moment and during the clay court season, he's playing unbelievable.  I knew it was not going to be an easy match.   
I didn't play my best the first three sets, I thought.  Once I found my range and rhythm, I felt good out there.   
 Q.  You said it's important here not to think too far ahead.  So when you were going through the sets and you were fighting back, what were you thinking about?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I think just try to win each game, try to win each game and somehow come back.   
You know, I successfully did that.  I'm very happy to be here with a five-set win, somebody who has beaten great opponents during the clay court season.   
As I said, obviously it was not my best.  I know that.  There is still a few things I need to work on.  Actually in the fourth and fifth set I really felt good out there even though I was a little bit tired and a little bit fatigued.  My serve started working better.  I started playing from the baseline much better.   
Yeah, I'm going to play after tomorrow, and we'll see how good that goes.   
 Q.  What specific things do you do training in the gym that help you in a match like that?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I don't know, 160 kilos in a dead lift.  That helps (smiling).   
No, but we to a lot of VersaClimb, a lot of running on the track, treadmill stuff.  All that helps me to play those long matches.   
 Q.  What did you tell yourself when you were down two sets to one?  You know, that's a tough spot to be in.  It's really impressive how quickly you took control.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, you guys make it sound like we think about it, really.  We don't.  We just try to play and win each point, each game.   
Being two sets to one down is like being a set in a three-set match.  We're not going to overthink it, Oh, I'm two sets to one down.  What am I going to do?  How am I going to play the next point?   
We try to play our best, we try to maybe change a few tactics and see how we can win the next point and the next game.   
 Q.  What did it mean to you in Australia after you lost to Chung to have Roger come over?  Have you reflected on that?  Was that meaningful to you?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Are we going back there?   
He said some encouraging things.  He told me a story about how he never made it past quarters until he was, what, 23 years old or something like that.  So I still have a little bit of time.   
Hearing that from the greatest player of all time is, you know, comforting, because you always think, Oh, if I'm not going to win this one, I'm never going to win one.   
And he's the greatest player of all time.  He's never passed a quarter until he was 23.  Just hearing that, just knowing that it's all okay, it's not the end of the world.   
So, I mean, obviously that was a long time ago and I played great tennis since then.  Maybe I have to give credit to him.   
 Q.  You have enjoyed some good success on the ATP Tour with some big-title wins.  Haven't quite translated it into a Grand Slam win yet, but do you feel like Roland Garros could be a turning point for you in terms of having a run in this tournament?  And if so, what will the difference be?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Where you from, buddy?   
 Q.  Do you want to guess?  Yorkshire in England.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Nice.  If I ever make a tournament there I'm coming just because of that accent.  Love it.  I didn't understand a word you're saying, but it's not important.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Could Roland Garros be a turning point for you in having success in a Grand Slam?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Sure.  Why not?  Just because you said it so nicely, I'm going to believe that now.   
 Q.  And why?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: And why?  Look, everybody tries to make a bigger story out of it than it is.  I have had great success on the ATP Tour, as you said.  Won three Masters, made two other finals this year.  I'm not worried.  I know if I'm doing the right things and if I do the right work I'll win those long matches, and the success will come itself.  This is not something I think of on a daily basis.   
But, yeah, hopefully I can win a few more matches here.  I have a tough opponent next round.  As I said, I'm just going to go match by match here.   
 Q.  Like you said, you're 21 years old.  Tennis is obviously going to come first, but what do you do to switch off and then refocus to the next match?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I play a lot of PlayStation, to be honest.  I play with Marcelo Melo and he can't beat me.  That makes me very happy.  That's my evening routines (smiling).   
 Q.  You clearly enjoy your tennis.  You say...  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Not as much as your accent, buddy.  I love that.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  I will come to all your press conferences now.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I love that.   
 Q.  If you get to the final we'll make sure I can ask a question, then.  Because I get edged out.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I'll definitely make sure if I get to the final you're asking multiple questions.   
 Q.  You are enjoying your tennis and you say you don't overthink the game.  Does it feel different playing in a Grand Slam or is it just another game of tennis?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: It did feel different.  I'm not even going to lie.  It did feel different in the last years, even in Australian Open, I did feel a difference.   
Now I take it as a big tournament, but I take the Masters Series as a big tournament, and I try to enjoy them.  I'm trying to do everything that I can to really enjoy the moments and enjoy playing on big courts, enjoy playing those great fights like I had today.   
As long as you're enjoying your thing, I think the success will come itself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT