ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/R. Berankis   
6-1, 6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  It's the first time that you're seeded second at a slam.  Does that add any more pressure on you?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No.  It's nice.  It means that you've been playing well throughout the whole year, and you deserve that spot a little bit.   
But the seedings don't matter.  When you go out there on court, you try to win, and that's the only thing.   
You try to beat the other guy who is on the other side, and it doesn't matter if you're ranked No. 2 in the world, it doesn't matter if you're ranked 50 or 80 in the world.  The same thing goes for everybody.   
 Q.  You have had a great run running up to, coming into here, because you obviously got to three finals, winning two of them.  How does that make you feel coming in here?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, it gives you confidence, as I said before, about the rankings.  But on clay especially I have been playing well.  During all the tournaments I have played on clay so far, the worst I did was semifinals of a Masters in Monaco.  That's not a bad preparation.   
I have won two tournaments, made the finals in Rome; again, losing to Rafa in a close match.  I feel good, and today was a good start to the tournament, and I'm happy the way it's going so far.   
 Q.  We have a world championship in Russia.  Are you thinking of watching, attending or any of the family going there, your prognosis?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, my grandma and grandfather will be going there, but the World Cup is during Wimbledon, so I hope I will be in London in that time.   
 Q.  What's your prognosis?  Who is going to win, first, second, third?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I'm from Germany, so there is no question about the first one (smiling).   
Second, Brazil maybe?  I hope.  I hope it's going to be Brazil/Germany final.  Third I will give it to Russia because it's the hosting nation.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT