ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 6, 2020
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/S. Wawrinka
6-3, 7-6
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. When you look at tonight's results, straight sets, and now you look ahead to the next round against Rafa, you're in deficit on an overall head to head with Nadal but it was a year ago when you beat him for the first time.  Do past results mean anything going into this next match against him?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   I mean, I think most of the tennis players on this planet are in a deficit against Rafa (smiling).  I think that's quite normal.
But I feel good.  Today was, I think it was quite a good match from my side.  We'll see how it goes.
Yeah, last year in London I obviously beat him, but we had a lot of tough matches.  We had obviously the Rome final, Australian Open, Indian Wells.  We had so many tough battles.  I think tomorrow is going to be another one, and it's going to be fun to watch.  Fun to play, as well.
Q. Seems like you have always matched up pretty well against Stan.  I wanted to find out from you what you were most proud of about your latest victory over him tonight.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Well, I mean, I think today was a much better level for me than yesterday, but even though yesterday's opponent is very difficult as well.
To play against Stan you always have to play your best.  We all know what he's capable of.  We all know he's capable of beating the best players in the world.  To have a chance against him you have to play at your best.  I feel like I was close to that today.
Q. Heading in now we're down to the final stages, elements are so tight and crucial, it's all about wanting to try to be error-free to achieve success?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, I think you have to be, when you play Rafa at any stage of the tournament, you have to be error-free to have success.
Even though at later stages I think all the top players always play better and it's even more difficult to beat them.
So, yeah, I'm looking forward to that match.  It's going to be a very difficult challenge.  I think Rafa is extremely motivated here.  He has never won this tournament, so I think for him this is extra motivation, as well.  For me as well.  This is the best result so far that I have done in Paris, but I hope I can go further.
Q. You have been clear in your response to your ex-girlfriend's allegations but they are incredibly serious.  Can you say are you considering legal action, and if not, then why not?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   So far I have said everything.  I have said everything in my statement.  There is nothing more that I can say right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT