AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2018
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/T. Fabbiano
6-1, 7-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you feel you started the tournament?  How do you feel you played today?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I think, you know, the first set was really good.  It was similar to what I felt like in practice and the week before.  As I said in the press conference before, I felt really good in the practice week.  And then got a little bit sloppy, but I think that's normal.  That's just lack of matches.
But I'm happy to get through, and hopefully it will be better in the next round.
Q. It was said you're one of the players supporting Novak in his ideas for a separate players union, pushing for a greater share of the tournament revenues, and even an end to the parity of female players in slams.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I don't know where this all came from.  We had a separate meeting as players from the ATP on Friday or Saturday.  I mean, everybody was there.  All of the top players were there.  All of the Grand Slam participants was there.  I was there, as well.  Novak was mostly talking.  I didn't really say a word to it.  And then all of a sudden my name came up in the newspapers somewhere.  I don't know.
So I don't know where this even came from that I'm, like, for it or against it or anything.  I was just there, like everybody else was.  I don't really have a position to it, because that was the first time it was mentioned.  Everybody listened to it.  That's about it.
Q. As an overall principle, do you think given the revenues of the Grand Slams, and, say, compared to the NBA which I think was the comparison Novak made, players should be getting more of those revenues than they currently do?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Look, I mean, I'm here to play.  You can ask this question maybe of Novak what he thinks.  But I'm here to play, and I'm happy to play on the big courts.  I'm happy to play against my opponents.
I enjoy doing that.  My goal here is to win matches now and not think about a lot of stuff.
Q. You mentioned your consistency.  Is that kind of what you see is the biggest thing that you need to sort of, I guess, work on?  Is there any part of your game that you...
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well, I think last year I was pretty consistent, apart from the end of the year.  I think my game is getting more consistent with age, as well.  I think that's also something that is a factor of maturity.
So, you know, I'm just trying to get better every single day, and that's what I'm here for.
Q. Were you a bit surprised that the small Fabbiano was able to compete so well with you?  Even, of course, every player who is playing a slam is capable to play, but did you expect him to be so competitive?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, I mean, that's what he does.  That's what he's known for on tour; to be competitive, to fight for every single point, play well from the baseline.  He's like a Schwartzman-type of player, I think.  So they are always not easy to beat, especially in first rounds.
I was a bit surprised with his serve and how well he was serving.  That was one factor that surprised me.
But apart from that, no, I was looking forward to a tough match.
Q. You next play one of your fellow Germans.  What's your sort of thoughts on that contest?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, he's someone who plays really well on the hard courts.  I think he played well in Auckland, as well.  Obviously a player that's very well informed.
I'm looking forward to after tomorrow.  We'll see how the match goes.
Q. You mentioned your dog on the court.  What sort of dog do you have?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I have a toy poodle.  You should know that (smiling).  He's very famous.  I'm kidding.
Q. Do you still live at home?  You mentioned your mum waking you up.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Me and my brother, we both live in Monaco.  We obviously have separate apartments.  He has a wife now, and, you know, I'm a little bit by my own.
But, you know, still we travel a lot as a family, because my dad is obviously my coach still.  My mom travels with him.  It was more of a joke.  But, you know, they asked me what changed for you since you're 24, No. 4 in the world.  At home nothing changed.  My brother still makes fun of me.  My mom is still there.  Dad is still there.  My dog doesn't even realize who I am, so, you know, nothing changes at home (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT