AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2018
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How are you feeling coming into this tournament with the match prep you've had, Hopman, whatever else you've done this week in Melbourne?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, I feel a lot better now than I did at the Hopman Cup.  I've said that always, I will take Hopman Cup as my off-season still.  And I was doing a lot of training there, I was doing a lot of hard training there before matches.  For me, it was pretty obvious I won't be playing my best tennis there.  I've said that multiple times.
Obviously I've had a few losses there.  The way I'm playing now and the way I'm feeling on court now, I feel much, much better, ready to start the first slam.
Q. Based on last year, you've had a little off-season now to look back at what you achieved, I imagine what you would like to improve this year.  How do you view last year?  What do you want to do better?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I think improving the Grand Slam performances is one thing.  I mean, the furthest I've got was to the fourth round of Wimbledon.  A lot of times not because I played bad, but because I played very good opponents.  I lost to Nadal here.  I lost to Raonic in Wimbledon.  Every time in five sets.  That's nothing to worry about too much.
But obviously that's one goal for me this year.
Q. Have you figured out, aside from the good opponents that you played, what you would need to do differently in order to improve?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Not much.  I mean, I've showed on multiple occasions over the year that I can play and beat the best guys in the world.  I mean, I'm No. 4 in the world for a reason.  Not trying to sound cocky or anything, but I've always said that I've always been working hard physically, I'm always trying to improve the performance at the Grand Slams.  Hopefully I can do so this week.
Q. Is it the best-of-five element that you think is an issue or has been to this point?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: For me, physically when I go five sets, I feel fine.  As I said, I mean, I lost to Nadal and Raonic on a grass court and hard court here, where they both went to the finals, so...
It's not a big thing to worry about for me.  As I said, I had one bad match at a Grand Slam last year, at the US Open.  Besides from that, I don't think it was that big of a deal.
Q. Closest you've been to Mischa for a while in a Grand Slam draw.  What was your reaction seeing yourselves pretty close?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Look, as you said, we have to win two matches.  For him, yes, to beat Chung and Kokkinakis and Medvedev.  His draw is not easy.
Hopefully we can get there.  It will be an interesting day (smiling).
Q. 'An interesting day'.  How would you handle playing against your brother?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: How would I handle it?
Q. Yes.  Is it different?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, it's a lot different.  Look, I haven't done it yet.  You can ask me this question when we do.
I think it's going to be a very special moment for all of us.  I mean, two brothers playing at a Grand Slam together and playing each other is something you won't see very often.  If it happens, of course I will want to win.  I think he will want to win.  It will be a happy moment for I think the whole family.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT