SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 12, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/A. Zverev
3-6, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What do you think you could have done differently maybe in the third set to make this match turn around?   Do you think you did everything you could and he was just too good?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I think he played a great match, maybe one of the best of the season.  I think we both played pretty well from the baseline.
But for me -- you know, I don't know what I could have done better, but for me, in my eyes it's impossible to lose a match where I get broken one time and I still lose it except if you play against Isner or Karlovic, someone like that.  In my eyes I did a horrible job maybe returning or getting the points going on his serve.
But apart from that, I think from the baseline and me serving, I think I did well.  I had -- you know, the game that he broke me, I was up 40-15 or 40-Love on my serve.  I was just unfocused there.
But apart from that, it was fine.
Q. Was it in part -- you talk about your returning, was it in part due to his serving?  And his serving, where does that sit in comparison to some of the other champions you have played and beaten?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I think his serve is huge.  He served 75%, something like that, against me.  Maybe that was higher than usually, but, you know, as I said, I still have to find a way.  I did that against other big servers this year.  I've put out a pretty good record against them.
But, you know, he's through to the quarterfinals, and I'm going to go to Europe, spend some time at home, which I'm looking forward to, as well.  Then going to be back at the big events there.
Q. I apologize for being repetitive, and I asked you this question in Beijing last week, but you talk about the big events of Europe, have you made any decision yet about...
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, I haven't.  I just came off court half an hour ago.  This decision is something that I'm going to talk about -- you're talking about playing Milan?
Q. Yeah.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: This is something I'm going to talk about with my whole team, but London is obviously the bigger event out of those two.  If I have to choose one, it's going to be London.
Q. How does your body feel at the moment?  It's been a long year.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Body feels fine.  Right now I'm very pissed off, as you can tell, probably.
Q. Yes.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: But that has nothing to do with you guys.  It's just about the match.
As I said, I don't understand how I can lose a match where I get broken one time in three sets and not manage to get any chances on his serve.
I'm a bit pissed off about that, because I feel like I played well and I feel like that's the upsetting part.  I feel like I could have done great in this tournament if I get through this match.
But it's fine.  I'm going to enjoy my time in Monaco.
Q. And then you will choose a time when you sit down...
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: It's going to be in Europe where everybody is there, when everybody is, you know, together.  I'll do something and I don't want to discuss it over the phone.  It's more everybody has to be at one table.
Q. Were you thinking before the match that maybe on his backhand side you would get more opportunities than what you had?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, sure.  His backhand is the worst shot, but I mean, I'm going to repeat myself:  I think I played well from the baseline.  That was not the problem.  I think we both played well from the baseline.
But it just happened.  I lost.  It's fine.  I mean, nothing changes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT