CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/A. Rublev
6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: With his victory today, Sascha becomes the third player to qualify for this year's Nitto ATP Finals in London.  He's the youngest player to qualify since Juan Martin del Potro in 2008, also being aged 20.
Questions, please.
Q. Let's start with London.  How does it feel to qualify?  What does it mean for you to reach that stage in your career?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, I think it's great for any player to qualify for a prestigious event that we have in London.  It's really an award for I think every player that shows that, you know, you've been one of the best players, not only for one or two weeks in a year, but you've been one of the best players for the whole year.  That's something special.  That's an amazing achievement for me, and I think for all the other guys, as well.
But the atmosphere is amazing in London.  I've been there for the award that I got two years ago.  So hopefully is going to be similar to that.  I know it's going to be very special event for me.
Q. That was a great performance from your side today.  You seem still pretty fresh at the end of this season despite all the matches you've played and great results.  Are you that fresh or are you gifted not to show that you are not?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I think I had a good schedule for my season.  I took the right amount of time off, the right moments.  I played the right amount of tournaments, I think.  I didn't overplay, like many players maybe do.
Of course, it helps that I won five tournaments already, so I don't have to think about ranking points so much.  I don't have to think about where I'm going to end the year.
For me, I feel great.  I play well.  Obviously losing in the US Open so early gave me extra time.  Of course, it was not great for me that I lost.
For the end of the year, it might have a positive impact because I took some time off, I had some time to do physical work, which you normally don't get in this period of the season.
For me, I feel fine.  Hopefully I can continue playing the way I'm playing and continue having good results till the season finishes.
Q. I apologize in advance if you addressed this subject at the Laver Cup or somewhere.  Are you intending to play both Milan and London?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: You know, I have to see how the back end of the season goes.  But I think Milan is a great event.  I think the ATP is doing a great job in promoting us young guys.  So far that's the plan.
Obviously I haven't talked to anyone of my team yet 'cause I just qualified for London 15 minutes ago.  Obviously that's a big impact on all the scheduling.
It's a great thing what the ATP is trying to do.  I think the Milan Masters will be a good success, a great success for the ATP and for the younger generation.  I'm going to go there no matter if I play or not.
But so far that's the plan.  So far that's the plan.  I'm playing Paris, Milan and London.
Q. You have Nick Kyrgios next.  What are your thoughts on that match?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I don't know actually.  It's unpredictable.  Obviously he's a great player.  He's a big server.  He's someone that I know very well outside the court, as well.
We've played a few times this year, all on hard courts, all on the U.S. hard courts.  In Miami he beat me, Indian Wells.  In Montreal I was able to beat him.
Hopefully it's going to be another entertaining match.  I think we're both playing great tennis.  Hopefully it's going to be a high-standard semifinal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT