NITTO ATP FINALS
November 14, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. FEDERER/A. Zverev   
7-6, 5-7, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Even though it was a great match, what happened at the beginning of the third set, in your opinion?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, he broke me.  I think he played a very good game to break me.  Then I lost a little bit concentration after that.   
But, look, all in one, I think it was a very positive match.  Obviously he won it.  He's in the semifinals.  But even for me, I played the better match of the two today.   
I think I still have great chances of qualifying, playing Jack Sock next.  I think if I continue having this level, I don't know, maybe you'll see me on the weekend still.   
 Q.  Were you pleased with how you responded?  You seemed to lose your concentration at the beginning of the second set.  Were you pleased with how you came back from that, got back in the match?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, it's always very important to keep playing I think against every opponent.  I'd say I've done a good job of getting back into the match, winning the second set.  Of course, the third set was a little bit upsetting by letting go a little bit too early.   
But as I said, it was a pretty positive match.  I think we both played pretty well.  I feel very confident going into the Sock match.   
 Q.  Do you find many opponents who play a lot of slice backhands like Federer did tonight?  Normally he plays 19% in one year.  Tonight almost 50% were sliced.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: As I said in the last match already, I think people have realized that if you go fast to my backhand with a lot of spin, I quite like it.  So maybe people are starting to change it up, go a little bit more with the slice.   
I mean, look, I've played Roger now six times.  We're 3-All now, if you count the Hopman Cup match.  I mean, as I said, it was a great match.   
He's the best player of all time.  He's always going to find a way to try to disturb your rhythm a little bit and try to win.   
 Q.  Two matches into the tournament now, how are you feeling about the round-robin and the fact you're here after a loss but still have a chance?  How does that feel?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Good, because I still have a very decent chance of being in the semifinals.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT