ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 5, 2020
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/A. Mannarino
7-6, 6-7, 6-4
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. You were on court with Adrian for three hours and played 250 points.  How did you stay mentally focused throughout the match?  Why do you think you won tonight.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Every time I play Adrian is a very difficult match.  We played US Open and we played in Cologne, we played here, and all of them kind of went the distance.
I knew it was going to be difficult.  I knew he's a great player.  Especially on a faster surface like here he's very difficult to beat.  I knew I had to stay in there for the whole match.
Q. I was going to ask you, in a match like this where there are so many ups and downs and peaks and valleys, what do you learn about yourself, surviving such a long, difficult match?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, I mean, as you said, there was a lot of up and downs.  The first two sets could have gone both ways.  We both had set points and in both of those sets I had match points.  It was difficult.
As I said before, Adrian is a great player and you kind of have to stick with him.  I got a little bit lucky I think in the end that he missed that volley.  You know, I think 99 out of 100 he wouldn't miss it.
Yeah, and then I came out with a few big serves to finish the match, and I'm happy with the win.
Q. Your former girlfriend has made new allegations today concerning your behavior towards her, in particular two incidents, one at the Laver Cup last year and also at your Monaco apartment.  Do you have any response to this?  Did these incidents take place?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Well, as I said before, I think I have said everything on my Instagram.  There is nothing more I can say to that.
As I said, they are not true, and I hope that -- yeah, as I said, I have said everything.
Q. You looked pretty emotional at the end of the game in front of the TV cameras.  Was it a real impression or was it not?  Seemed like you cried or something.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   I what?  No, I didn't cry (laughter).
Q. No, it looks like because it was not, image was not very good.  No?  Okay.  Sorry for that.  Excuse me.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   No worries (smiling).  I was very happy, but, yeah, I didn't cry.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT