NITTO ATP FINALS
November 12, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/M. Cilic   
6-4, 3-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you feel to win?  How did you find the court conditions?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: The court conditions were fine.  All of us, we practiced here the whole week.  We're quite used to it.   
Obviously a match is still different.  A lot of nerves come in.  I felt a little bit nervous coming out for the first time here.  I think that's normal for anyone that is playing here for the first time.   
Of course, I'm very happy to get my first win in this group.   
 Q.  Could you talk about how the crowd interacted with you.  They took to you very well from the start.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, I always am someone who plays with the crowd quite a lot.  I enjoy playing in front of big stages, big crowds.  So, yeah, it obviously helped me a lot in the third set.   
 Q.  How important is the work of Juan Carlos Ferrero and his experience in these kind of tournaments?  What did he tell you after the match?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, I've answered this question a lot of times.   
It's very important.  I think he can help me mentally a lot.  He's played these tournaments all before.  He's played great in all of them.   
After the match, he told me it was a great fight.  Obviously very happy for him, as well, that I got the win through.  Of course, there's a few things here and there, but he said it was quite a good performance.   
 Q.  You face Federer next on Tuesday.  Did you catch any of his match earlier?  How do you feel going into that one?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I didn't see a lot because I was trying to focus on mine, trying to get ready for mine.  Look, I mean, I think anyone beating Federer in this group has a good chance of passing.  But he's the favorite definitely in all of the matches he plays.   
I played him a few times this year now.  I played him three times, if you count the Hopman Cup match we played.  Obviously, all of them were great matches.  Hopefully it can be another one.   
 Q.  Completely different situation.  In Milan for the NextGen, what was your impression, even if you didn't play the tournament, just an exhibition?  What did you think about the fact that Chung won the tournament?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I've made this call with my team.  We had a little bit of a quiz who is going to win the tournament.  I said Chung, and he's not going to lose a match.  I actually said that (smiling).  Quite surprisingly.   
Look, I think it was a great event.  I think the ATP did a great job.  I think the crowd enjoyed it.  I mean, it was packed I think most of the days.  That just shows how big of a success and how interesting the young guys are.   
 Q.  How does this tournament differ from the other events?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: As I said on court, it is different walking on here than any other stadium.  The crowd, the atmosphere is amazing.  The show before we walk on is something special.   
As I said, there were a lot of nerves involved in my first match.  Obviously I'm happy that's behind me.  I'm happy that I won.  I think the next matches will be not different but from a nervousty [sic] perspective it will be much different for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT