U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. CORIC/A. Zverev
3-6, 7-5, 7-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You played in a lot of matches lately.  Are you tired?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No.  I mean, I took time off after Cincinnati.  Physically I'm fine.  I just played very, very bad in the second and third set.  I should have won the third.  I definitely should have won the fourth.
But, you know, it's upsetting because the draw is pretty open in the bottom part.  I felt like I should have been the favored there.  You know, I just played a very, very bad match, so it's unfortunate.  But that's how it is.
Q. He has a history of playing you well.  Does that play on your mind at all?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: We played two times, so...  I don't know, is that a history?  I think Rafa and Roger have a history.  Or Novak and those guys have a history.  I don't think we have a history.  We played two times.
Q. A couple times you complained to the ref.  Was there anything bothering you with the ref?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I don't remember, to be honest.
Q. With your incredible talent, two Masters Series wins, you were seen as a real possibility for this title.  I would think for a young person it would be hard to absorb all that.  Do you think in some way that got to you or affected you in any way?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, because I've been dealing with expectations from a very young age, so for my whole career.  For me, this is just another step.  I was the highest-ranked player in the bottom half of the draw after Andy retired.  Now I'm out of the draw, so...
For me, nothing changes.  I still have to go back to work and then try to win this title maybe in the future years.
Q. What would you consider a successful rest of the year for you?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I just lost the second round of a major where I shouldn't have lost, so I'm not thinking about the rest of the year.
Q. Were you surprised at how he was able to maintain his level through to the end, especially the long rallies and breakpoints?  Was that at all surprising to you?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, he played really well on the breakpoints.  Maybe had a little bit of luck on his side, as well.  Caught the line, had a few let cords and stuff like this.  Everything was just a little bit against me.
But, I mean, I know what level he plays on.  I know that he can maintain it.  My level wasn't high today, so that's more the problem.
Q. How do you handle all the expectations?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I don't think about it.  I just play every match the same way, try to play every match the same way.  Sometimes you lose, sometimes you win.  Luckily for me most of the time this year I was winning, so that's good.
It's upsetting.  Today was upsetting.  The way I played was upsetting.  The tournament so far is upsetting for me.  I know that I could have done some big things here.  I know that I could have done something that I haven't done before.  But I won't.  It's just as simple as that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT