THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 8, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/S. Ofner   
6-4, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You haven't lost a set yet here.  How do you feel going into the next round about your game?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I feel good.  I think it shows on court that I feel well.  You know, I thought I'm playing better and better every match I play.   
I feel quite well from the baseline, serving good, returning.  Today returned very, very well.  I'm happy the way I'm playing, but of course the next match is going to be much tougher and I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  You're now part of Middle Monday, which is a very special day for fans because they get to see all the remaining men and women play on the same day.  What's that like for you to play that?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well, I think playing the second week is something very special.  I think being in the fourth round is something very special.  But I have got to look forward to the next match, try to prepare the best I can.  I'm playing against Milos who I played in Rome already once.  Hopefully I can take a little bit out of that match, but obviously this is a completely different surface and different circumstances.  I'm going to be prepared as well as I can.   
 Q.  What do you remember from that match specifically with him that you know you can sort of prepare for the next match?  In terms of his style, what do you know you have to look out for?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: His serve is something to start with (smiling).  One of the best servers on tour right now.   
So that's not going to be easy returning his serve.  Obviously big forehand, big game.  I think the serve is going to be the shot that will give most players the most trouble.   
 Q.  How significant is reaching a Grand Slam fourth round the first time for you?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I think it's good.  I think it's another milestone in my young career still.   
But, I mean, of course it's nice to reach the fourth round, but this is not the goal that, you know, somebody sets themself up, oh, I want to be there fourth round and then that's it.  You know, obviously I want to keep playing good tennis and keep getting up there.   
 Q.  Your ranking is amongst one of the best left in the tournament today, but you seem to be totally at ease with yourself out on court with that kind of focus and intensity.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, as I said I felt well on court today, so never really felt like the match could slip away from me.  I felt comfortable.  I felt confident.  That's how it went, as well.   
 Q.  Do you feel you can still take that kind of confidence into a match against a player like Milos?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Of course you have to take confidence from the previous matches.  I haven't lost a set yet.  That's gotta give me something.   
But of course Milos is a completely different player.  He's been final here last year.  I'm going to expect him to play very, very well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT