NITTO ATP FINALS
November 16, 2020
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. MEDVEDEV/A. Zverev
 6-3, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Could you just explain what went wrong with your serve today?  So many double faults.  Could you also comment on the underarms that Medvedev made?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, my serve was not quite there today.  All in all, it wasn't a good match for me.  I think since the restart of the season, it was one of the worst ones.
 But, yeah, credit to Daniil.  He did what he needed to do.  I mean, the underarm serve paid off for him.  Yeah, I mean, great job to him.
 Q. Before your time, this tournament, the Finals, was played three-out-of-five sets, as were all of the Masters 1000s, Davis Cup.  Now we're basically down to the majors playing three-out-of-five sets.  Do you think it's time to play two out of three at the majors?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   No, never.
 Q. Never.  Why?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Because that's tennis history.  You don't change tennis history like that.  You changed tennis history already with the Davis Cup, and that's working out not very great, is it?  That's part of tennis history.  That's part of the physical game that tennis is.  We have a day off between matches at slams.
 This is what we put on the work for.  This is what we are going to the gym for.  This is what we do.  Best-out-of-five sets at slams, it should stay forever.
 Q. Should you go back to best out of five at things like this tournament in the Finals and the Masters 1000s?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   This, I don't know.  I think it was affecting players and maybe tournaments, as well, because I remember that Rome final when Roger and Rafa played five sets for five hours, they couldn't go next week and play in Hamburg.
 So that maybe not, but at the Grand Slams, definitely it should not change.
 Q. Do you feel something special when you receive an underarm serve losing one set down and break down?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Do I feel something special?  No, I think it was part of the tactic for him.  I was quite far back.  It paid off.  What can I say?  It worked well for him.
 Q. Is it difficult to explain what happened to you both at the beginning of this match?  Because you were not looking the usual Medvedev and the usual Zverev.  I wonder why.  Because you think it was because of Bercy?  Because the court was different?  I don't even know if this one is slower or faster.
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Much quicker, and also the balls are not very controllable with this surface.
 I mean, I didn't play well, as I said.  He needs to speak for himself, but I think maybe he was a little bit nervous in the beginning, but then he picked up his level.
 But, yeah, it was not good enough to beat a top-10 player today from my side.
 Q. When you look at tennis rivalries, if you look at Roger and Rafa, there is a lot of respect between them two.  With you and Daniil, there seems to be a bit of edginess on court and a bit of heat.  Does that make the matches better between you two?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Edginess and heat?  No, we are very good friends.  I mean, good friends.  I know him since childhood.  We're friends.  There is no heat or anything like that.
 We want to win, obviously, but it's not Stefanos and Daniil.  I think they have a little bit more than me.  I'm fine with him.  I have no problem with him (smiling).
 Q. How are you going to prepare for your next match against Diego?  Did you see today's game against Djokovic?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, I mean, Novak was Novak.  He dominates.  But I need to look at myself.  I need to play better.  I need to be better on court.  Because if I play like today, I'm not going to win any matches here this week.
 Now I can't afford to lose.  I need to beat Diego, I need to beat Djokovic to have a chance to go to the semifinals.  I'm going to try to do that.  But with how I played today, it's going to be difficult to do.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT