INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 19, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/M. Raonic   
7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think of your chances after that performance of going all the way here?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: All the way, meaning winning?   
 Q.  Winning the title, yeah.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, tomorrow I will be one of four players still in the tournament.  I will give it 25% (smiling).   
 Q.  First Masters semi for you.  Does it feel like a big milestone?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, it's another steppingstone in my career.  I feel like I have played very well today.  I returned very well.   
So I'm happy to be in semis and playing John tomorrow, who I know very well, you know, from our Saddlebrook days.  We practice quite a lot together in the offseason and do quite a lot of stuff together.   
It's going to be a great match.  I'm excited for both of us.   
 Q.  We all know that you are a hard worker and are very ambitious, but are you also a little bit surprised in a good way that it goes so fast and so quick from few months ago till now?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well, I have had this question asked yesterday.   
 Q.  I wasn't there, sorry.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: That's fine.  I will answer it again.   
I'm not surprised -- "surprised" is the wrong word.  I'm more happy about it, you know, because I know what I have done this offseason.  I know how much work I did.  I think if you do so much that the result comes itself.  So I think that all put together, I think at some point this will come.   
Of course I'm very happy that it's coming sooner rather than later, but at the same time, I know what I have done and I know how much work I did.   
 Q.  What are your earliest memories of playing John?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Earliest memories?  Probably when I was 14, 15, practicing with him at Saddlebrook.  We started practicing together from a very young age.   
Saddlebrook was always very supportive with me.  They always let me practice with the pros from a young age since I'm a junior, those kind of moments.   
I played him twice already.  The match in Miami was quite memorable this year, so hopefully it will be another tough battle tomorrow.   
 Q.  I don't know how tall you were when you were 14, but imagine being a junior and facing that tall a guy, it's not something you get in juniors very much.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: We practiced more than played points or something like that.  It was different than playing him in the semifinals of a Masters tomorrow.   
 Q.  You talk about your hard work and physical hard work you have been doing.  I see Jez is here.  When you're on the road and Jez is there, do you put in a lot of time in the gym, or is he just here in a supportive role?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, this week is more about not getting hurt and more about feeling as well as possible, because this is my fifth week on the road.  So I have done a lot of miles on my legs and on the tennis court.   
This week is more about getting the body right, getting the body lined up posterior-wise and doing all sorts of stuff like this.   
But next week, the week before Paris, we will do a lot of hard work again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT