INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 17, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/V. Troicki   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I met you three years ago at the US Open.  Many things have changed since then.  I'd like to know when you were a junior, playing the juniors and so on -- maybe two years.  I'd like to know, after all this time, what really has changed in your life?  Because you are now very well  known, you beat sometimes Federer, you're...  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, every once in a while I beat Federer.  No problem.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  What are the changes you have and the people who are surrounding you?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: The last time I played juniors at the US Open was four years ago.  I mean, now I'm on the professional tour and obviously playing the bigger tournaments every week, so, you know, that has changed.   
A lot of things are still the same.  I'm still trained by the same people.  I work with Jez Green still and still travel with my brother a lot.  A lot of things have actually stayed the same.   
I moved my home.  I live in Monaco now.  That's maybe one thing.   
Tennis-wise, I mean, obviously I'm playing better and obviously I improved a lot.  Tennis-wise and practice-wise, not much has changed.   
 Q.  Yesterday evening, the center court for Fognini against Murray, the crowd, maybe the same thing for you tomorrow?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah.  I'll get a lot of crowd support, I think (smiling).   
I mean, Fabio is someone who I think the crowd loves a lot.  The way he plays, the way he behaves I think for Italian people is quite exciting, and actually for all the others, so it is also quite exciting.  He's very entertaining to watch, and I like it.   
I like how the crowd is supporting him, and I like how the crowd is always behind him and always has his back.   
I really enjoy that, even though I will play against him tomorrow.  The stadium will be very loud for him.  I'm very sure about that.   
Yeah, it's gonna be a fun day, I think, a fun atmosphere and great match.   
 Q.  Have you watched the match of Fabio against Murray yesterday?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I watched a little bit.  I watched the first set.  Fabio played very, very well.   
Andy maybe was still struggling a little bit to find his rhythm, find his range.  But I'm sure he's gonna find it before Paris, as well.   
But Fabio played a very good match, and it's going to be a very tough match.  Yeah, we'll see how it goes tomorrow.   
 Q.  And let's say you have to choose the court for tomorrow's match.  Considering venue and crowd support, do you prefer Centrale Court or Pietrangeli?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I'll prefer grass court somewhere in Halle, probably (smiling).  That would be a good court.   
 Q.  And how do you feel the surface, I mean, the clay?  If you had to pick a surface, you would choose grass first and hard court and clay on third or not?  And then were you raised up more or less...  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I'm equal on all the surfaces.  I think I have shown that over the tournaments.  I won Munich this year, which was a very tough tournament.  I played quarters in Madrid last week, which was also a Masters Series, so it's not easy.  I beat very good players there.   
On hard court I won two tournaments already.  On grass I did finals of Halle last year beating Federer.   
So for me, it's more about how I play than the surface.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT