INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/K. Anderson   
6-4, 4-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Two questions about ATP Next Generation Finals.  The first one is one opinion about the event in general, and if you feel the weight to be at the top to the race to Milan.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: How do I feel about it?  The question is how do I feel about it?   
 Q.  To feel the weight.  You are the point of reference of the NextGen, so you are the No. 1 of the race.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, I have 1,200 points, so if I don't make Milan, something really has to go wrong (smiling).  I'm about 10 or 11 on the race to London, so that's not a small race, either.   
I'm excited about the event.  I think the ATP has done a great job organizing it, because we do have a strong group of guys who are playing great and who are getting up the rankings.  I think it's going to be very interesting event.   
Maybe the ATP could have done it under 23.  Maybe it would have got a few more players in.  Someone like Kyrgios, who is very interesting, Edmund, Nishioka, those kind of guys would have been very interesting to see.   
But I think in general they are doing a great job, and I think they are doing a great job to promote it, as well.  It's going to be a very fun event.   
Yeah, my goal, of course, it's to play Milan, but I have kind of done that already.  I think I will play Milan just point-wise.   
I'm 11 on the race to London.  There is a chance that I might, as well, play London.  So that's something I look for more than Milan.   
 Q.  If you think there is sort of competition, spirit of competition, with the other NextGen players.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Is it a competition?   
 Q.  Rivalry.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, they are doing great.  But I think we haven't played enough for it to be a rivalry.  I think me and Dominic or me and Kyrgios, you would call that more of a rivalry than any other of the NextGen guys that are under 21, because I just haven't played them.   
I have played Taylor a few times and played Coric once.  I just haven't played them enough to call it a rivalry.  I think the other young guys that are a little bit older, I think this is more of a story between me and them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT