AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A.  ZVEREV/R. Haase
6-2, 3-6, 5-7, 6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How worried were you today?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: How worried?
Q. Yeah.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, if you're down two sets to one and 2-Love and Love-40 on your serve, there are thoughts going through your head a little bit.  But I kept playing, and I knew I had to keep playing and try my best.  You know, I'm happy to get out of that.
Q. You haven't played too many five-setters.  How was the energy level in the fifth set?  Looked good?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, I felt pretty okay.  He got a little bit tired, I thought.  His energy went down.
I don't know if that's because he's tired or if because he lost the fourth set where he may have thought he should have won.
But, yeah.  I mean, I picked it up and I played great the fifth set.
Q. How did that second set slip away from you?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: The second set?
Q. Yeah.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: What do you mean?  Second set was equal, and then he broke me at 4-3, and that's it.
Q. Just a matter of a point here or there?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, he started serving really well.  At the beginning of the second set, I wasn't really getting into the points that well.  So, you know, didn't have a lot of chances.  Then I played a very bad game on my serve.  That's how it got away.
Q. How did you turn it around mentally?  Which was the one moment where it just clicked and you said, Right, I can do this now?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I think letting my frustration out in the beginning of the fourth helped me a little bit.  You know, sometimes you just have to let go.
And then, you know, obviously getting that first break back in the fourth set, you know, I really felt like I could still do it.  That's how it went then.
Q. Did you feel like you had won that mental battle in the final set?  Kind of looked like you had it in the bag, pretty much?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I think the mental battle, if you can call it that, was more in the fourth set when I broke him back, and then I broke him right again to win the set.  I think he broke down a little bit then.
Q. Surprised he tried a trick shot towards the end there?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, it was 5-2, me serving.  A lot of things had to go wrong for me to lose that match, I felt like.
Q. How did you find the conditions today?  It's pretty...
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, it was not cold (laughter). Let's put it that way.
Q. Do you think it helped you in the end, or...
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I'm pretty okay with hot conditions.  I don't mind it that much.  He maybe got a little bit more tired than me, so I think that helped me a little bit.
But, you know, the balls were different.  Obviously it was flying much more.  The days before, it wasn't that hot, so I didn't really get used to the conditions that well.  So it took me a little bit.  But, yeah, I mean, I don't mind these kind of conditions.
Q. With these hot conditions now, do you think that sort of puts you in good stead for the rest of the tournament?  Playing a long, five-set match in these conditions, you should now find your rhythm a bit quicker?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: It's getting cold again tomorrow, I heard.  It's changing again.  You know, one day it's hot, one day it's cold, so you can't really find a rhythm here.
You have to adjust the best you can.  You know, just get ready for another match, another tough match.
Q. How do you find Melbourne, just in general?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I love Melbourne.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT