AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2017
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. NADAL/A. Zverev   
4-6, 6-3, 5-7, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How are your legs?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Great.   
 Q.  Is that the reason why the match turned in the fifth set?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, I cramped after that long rally.  I still had game points to go up 3-2.  I lost my service game I think because of that a little bit.  So, yeah, those are a big reason for it.   
 Q.  Obviously you're disappointed, but in a couple days how do you think you'll look back on this match?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Even now I'm disappointed, but I know that this was a great match.  That was a great fight.  There's a lot of positives in this match.   
I think he's probably one of the fittest tennis players in the history of the game, so...   
Obviously I wanted to win.  I could have won.  It's disappointing.  But I'm fine actually.   
 Q.  Is it extra motivation knowing you're close to that level?  What is the mindset moving forward?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I am close.  I kind of showed it a few times last year, and this now.  We played for over four hours.  It was not an easy match.  So, you know, there's a few things here and there I could do better.  All in one, I think I'm pretty happy with my performance.   
 Q.  Would you say this was the most exhausting match you ever played?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, there are matches where I wasn't as fit as now.  A few years back when I played five sets, I just wasn't as fit as now.  I played worse players, much shorter, and I was still exhausted.   
But now, you know, I'm quite strong and I feel quite well on court, except that one game where I cramped.  Yeah, I mean, it was very difficult, I think.   
 Q.  You mentioned positives.  Can you mention a few positives you take from the game.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I think I just said it.  Taking him five sets is very positive.  He played very well, I think.  He served very well.  Everything about that match I think is positive except, like, one or two things.   
 Q.  Talk about your relationship to the game and to the process.  You're 19, such a great prospect.  Do you love tennis?  Is it something that's thrilling to you?  Is it at times a grind?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I've got that question asked last time and I said I love tennis.  I'm not, like, the person you think of right now.  No, I absolutely love tennis.  I absolutely love the process.  It's exciting for me.   
I think I can see how I'm getting better.  I can see how I'm getting better in five sets.   
So, you know, it's exciting.  I think it's going to be an exciting year for me.   
 Q.  Can you, in your own mind, envision going to the very top and winning a Grand Slam?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, I'm doing all the work I can for it, so...  We'll see what the future holds.   
 Q.  (Question about his brother.)  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Great.  First time fourth round in a major.  I wish him all the luck in the world tomorrow.   
 Q.  You beat Federer in Hopman Cup.  In terms of satisfaction, this match, that match, how do they compare?  
 A. One match I won; the other one I lost.  It's quite simple, I think.   
 Q.  In terms of performance.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I think this was physically a much tougher match.  We had much longer rallies.  It was completely different.   
Against Roger, it's always a very quick game.  Against Rafa, you always have to play long points.  I think both matches I played pretty well.  If this would have been a three-set match, I would have won 7-6 in the third.  Again, the same against Roger.   
I think both are very positive matches.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT