SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 10, 2016
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/J. Isner   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  First of all, congratulations on winning.  For the next round you will be playing Marin Cilic.  How much chance do you think you have?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well done.  (Applause.)  I have 47.8% chance of winning that.   
Next?  I don't know what else to say.  Even the cameraman is laughing at that question.  I'm sorry, that was just too funny (smiling).   
 Q.  So what is your impression about the city of Shanghai?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, I think it's a very great city.  It's pretty beautiful.  It's a little bit Americanized, I would say.  It's a little bit like the big American cities.   
You know, I have been to the basketball stadium yesterday, which, you know, is very nice, very well built.  You know, everything downtown is also pretty clean and pretty new.  So, you know, it's a great city.  It's a great international city, as well.   
 Q.  You were defeated by Marin in February this year.  What do you think of the next game?  It is revenge for you or something else?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I didn't understand.   
(Question clarified by Moderator.)   
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, I lost to him in Washington 2015.  I beat him this year in Montpellier.   
You know, both very tough matches, a lot of tiebreaks in those matches.  So, you know, it's a tough match.  He plays very well from the baseline.  Just won Cincinnati, his first Masters, as well.  He's playing quite well.   
You know, it's going to be a difficult match, but I have been playing pretty well for the last few weeks, as well.  You know, if I can continue playing like I did the last few tournaments and also here the first round, I thought I played very well, you know, I have good chances.   
 Q.  You won your first career title in St. Petersburg, so what is your next goal?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, you know, I always said this year is about improving and about getting better.   
Look, there is a Heineken.  Thanks, guys, even though I didn't win the tournament yet, but really appreciate it (smiling).   
No, I mean, just getting better, just getting better on the tour, you know, for the bigger tournaments and the upcoming events, you know, which are really thinking about next year a little bit.  You know, there is not really a goal but just getting better.   
 Q.  Your brother will play with Zhang Ze tonight.  Will you watch his match?  Do you enjoy traveling around with your brother for the tournaments?  Thank you.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: They started right now, I think, so as soon as I'm done with the press and TV interviews, I will be heading out on court, that's for sure.   
You know, my brother has been playing pretty well.  He qualified in a few events in a row now.  Played well in Shenzhen, did quarterfinals there, and qualified here, as well, beating two very good opponents.  Beat Karen Khachanov who just won Chengdu, his first title, as well, so he's playing pretty well.  I'm pretty confident that he'll do great tonight.   
 Q.  Welcome to Shanghai.  I'd like to ask you what's your next goal of this period?  I think you have achieved so much at such a young age.  Do you expect yourself to be the next champion of the world?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I don't know.  We'll see about that.  It's still a long way ahead.  Novak is about 14,000 points ahead of me right now, so he's still world No. 1.   
 Q.  Do you enjoy travel with your brother for the same tournament?  Do you guys talk a lot in the same tournament?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, I love it.  It's great to have your family around.  It's great to have a playing brother in the big tournaments.  I mean, when was the last time this happened to two family members?  Two brothers are, you know, playing main draw at a Masters Series or at Grand Slams or tournaments like this.  I mean, this is not something that happens very often.  I think it's something great and special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT