WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2016
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. ZVEREV/M. Youzhny
  6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑0, 4‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. What was it like playing such an on‑and‑off match?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well, I mean, it was difficult. I mean, I warmed up about eight times I think downstairs in the gym. So, you know, obviously it was tough and obviously playing a second round on Saturday still. I have to play tomorrow now. It's not easy schedule.   
Roger is in fourth round already, and I'm still playing second round today. You know, it's difficult. But, yeah, I'm just happy to get the win, happy to be in my first third round of Wimbledon here.  
   
 Q. Do you think it's fair that they put a third‑round match with Roger under the roof before your second round was anywhere near finishing?   
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well, I mean, if it's fair or not, that's a different question. He's a seven‑time champion here. I can't complain about it.  
But obviously, I mean, obviously it's different. You know, he's in fourth round already. He's going to get two days off. He will get today and tomorrow off. I have to play yesterday, today, and tomorrow and then maybe Monday.  
You know, that's a little bit tougher physically than having two days off.  
   
 Q. Playing tomorrow, it's People's Sunday. There will be a lot of people here. There will be a good atmosphere. Have you heard about the previous People's Sundays?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, Jez, my fitness coach, just told me it's going to be a very great atmosphere.  
So, you know, I'm really looking forward to it. Maybe I will get a big court and obviously Tomas who is top 10. So, yeah, we'll see. I'm really looking forward to it already.  
   
 Q. What are your thoughts on playing Tomas? I think this is the fourth time you will play him, right?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, we played two times before this year. One was 7‑5 in the third and the other one was 6‑4 in the fifth. So we always have tough matches.  
Yeah, it's gonna be hopefully very good match again. Yeah, we'll see how it goes tomorrow.  
   
 Q. There is a lot of German history at Wimbledon, people like Beck and Stich winning the title. Do you look to emulate them, or is it too early for that?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well, I mean, I barely made it to third round. We'll see how the tournament goes (smiling). Obviously, I mean, that's what I'm working for and that's what I try and aim for. I'm far away from that right now.  
   
 Q. How much do you pay attention to what's going on in your section of the draw?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well, I know I'm playing Tomas. Then after that I have no clue who I'm playing, so that's how much attention I pay to that.  
   
 Q. Specifically with regard to having to wait overnight, tied 2‑2 in the fifth, is that the first time you have had to do that at this level?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, first time. Obviously I didn't know how to react or how to handle it.   
I'm happy the way I came out today. I played really good, I thought, today. I thought I played much better today than yesterday.  
So, yeah, I mean, obviously it was a tough situation but I handled it quite well, I think.  
   
 Q. Did you make any tactical alterations overnight based on what you saw from him yesterday?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, of course. I mean, I talked ‑‑we had rain breaks yesterday, as well, where I talked to my dad a little bit and my coaching staff. I think it was always a little bit of changeup. But, yeah, I mean, I know how he plays. There is no big secret how he plays. He knows how I play because he knows me very well. I think it was a good match based on that.  
   
 Q. Do you think Wimbledon made the right decision to play tomorrow or would you like a day off?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, they have to get the matches through somehow. I mean, they're pretty back on schedule. So it's not really up to me, that one.  
   
 Q. The grass court becomes a bit irregular, broken. Can you explain the change?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well, I mean, they do a good job here for the grass court. The grass court is actually better after a week than on most grass courts. I think, you know, obviously grass courts are going to get broken and the conditions are going to get different. But I still think here they are doing a great job in keeping the grass courts pretty good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT