ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 7, 2020
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. ZVEREV/R. Nadal
 6-4, 7-5
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You did a good job of maintaining your composure out there, especially in the second set when things were starting to turn against you.  Is there anything you can point to during the match that was the difference between winning and losing today?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Well, I mean, I had a lot of chances in the second set.  I think at 4-2 I had a Love-40 game on his serve which I didn't win.
 Those moments, the match can turn around, especially against Rafa.  But I think I picked up my level at 4-5 down in the second set again and then it all went well.  I'm happy to be in the final.
 Q. The only previous final that you played against Daniil incidentally was the one you actually lost or the only match he won against you last year in Shanghai.  You performed mentally and psychologically pretty well today, despite all the challenges.  How do you feel going into another finals with Daniil from that standpoint?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   I feel good.  Look, I'm in the final of a Masters, so I'm quite happy about that.  And I have just beaten Rafa.  So that is never easy to do.  I think the whole world will agree with me on that, all the players will agree with me on that.
 It's going to be a final against Daniil.  Obviously two best players of the tournament are still left.  I'm happy about it.  I think he's quite happy about it.  We're both not going to give each other anything tomorrow and we'll see who can win.
 Q. Do you feel you played your best tennis?  How do you do to play so well and be so focused in the difficult context of these allegations you are facing?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   For me I have been playing well for quite a while, since the comeback of the season, I think.  And I'm just happy right now to be on court.  There is nothing more to say.
 I'm very calm, I'm very calm in life, I'm very calm in the court.  Everything is good for me to be playing good tennis.  I'm happy with that, and I hope I can continue that, as well.
 Q. Beating Rafa is no easy feat on any occasion.  One thing that struck me was 13 aces you had to Rafa's 4.  And on the second serve you were 100% on your second serve while he was only at 29%.  In terms of your service game it was really excellent.  Maybe Rafa just wasn't, his serve wasn't functioning as well.  I suppose Daniil's serve has been going right well this tournament.  Is it two guys with the two best service games in the final?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Well, I don't know.  I think Isner or Raonic or someone like that would have someone to say against that.  Definitely I think the two best players are in the final.  I think whenever you're in the final you deserve to be there.
 I'm looking forward to it.  I think we are both extremely hungry, we're both wanting to win the title here.  It will be our first title here.  So it's going to be interesting to see, and I'm looking forward to it.
 Q. The last time you had some personal issues off court with your former manager your tennis took a toll.  It was a struggle for you.  Yet this time you have not reacted this way to off-court issues.  I'm just wondering if you learned something from what you went through off-court last time that is helping you through this to sort of mentally put everything else out of your mind?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Me as a person I think, you know, I do realize now that there is gonna be always people that will not want the best for you, and there is always going to be people that try to put you down when you're on top.
 It's up to me if I'm going to let that happen.  You know, I feel like I'm doing quite a good job of not letting that happen, and I'm still enjoying myself.  As long as you still have a smile at the end of the day, I think that's the most important in life.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT