ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 4, 2020
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. ZVEREV/M. Kecmanovic
 6-2, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. I wanted to find out, how do you manage to stay so focused with your tennis on court with everything that you have been having to deal with off the court?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Well, I'm here to play tennis.  So, you know, I have been doing that well the last few weeks.  I mean, since the comeback of the season, and I want to continue doing that.  As you said, there is obviously a little bit of things going on.  There is some very good news, I think.
 Yeah, I'm happy to be here and playing tennis.
 Q. Given those allegations against you by your ex-girlfriend of domestic abuse, I know you said on social media they are unfounded and simply not true, my question is whether you're planning on doing anything else to clear your name?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Look, right now, as I said, I have said everything on my Instagram.  Yeah, there is nothing else I can add right now.  I'm here.  I'm here to play tennis.
 I mean, the relationship, as I said, has been over for a very long time.  Yeah.
 I'm enjoying my time on court.  I have said everything.  They are not true, and there is nothing more I can say right now.
 Q. I'd like to ask you to look ahead to the ATP Finals in a couple of weeks.  You know, you won the tournament two years ago.  You beat Djokovic and Federer.  Last year you beat Rafa en route to the semis.  What is it about that tournament that seems to bring out the best in you, and what are you looking forward to this year?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Well, it's the last time we play in London.  Obviously London is a very special place for me, especially the O2 Arena.  Yeah, I won my biggest title of my career so far there.
 You know, it's a special place.  I feel like I have always been able to play my best there.  I hope I can continue doing that and we'll see how far I can go this year.
 Q. Can I just ask you your thoughts on the O2 is known for its atmosphere and its ambience.  Can you just talk a little bit about how different it will be this year going in with an empty stadium?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, it's going to be very different.  I mean, the atmosphere and the stadium is actually the thing you always look forward to when you play at the O2.  It's special.  It's 20,000 people, indoor stadium, which is iconic because there is a lot of concerts, a lot of events happening, a lot of really people that you usually look up to that have been at the O2.
 Then when you play there, it's obviously very special.  I think everybody is always looking forward to that.  But this is the new normality for us, and we need to kind of adjust to that.
 Yeah.  I'm just happy to be there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT