ROLAND GARROS
October 4, 2020
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  J. SINNER/A. Zverev
 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. I'd like to know what was your problem, physical problem in the first set when you asked the physio to come in the court?  You say something like sore throat, I don't know.  Also, did you expect him to play so aggressive?  Maybe you were playing too much behind the line?  I don't know.  I'm just asking.
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   No, it was nothing wrong but I am completely sick after the match with Cecchinato in the night.  Yeah, what can I say?  I'm completely sick.  I can't really breathe, as you can hear by my voice.  I had fever, you know, as well.
 Yeah, I'm not in the best physical state, I would say.  I think that had a little bit of an effect on the match today.
 Q. They were talking about Sinner's forehand being clocked really high, 80-miles-per-hour range.  Wonder if you had an idea, if you could comment on the pace that he was playing with and the heaviness of his balls.
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, he plays well.  But I didn't do anything today.  Everything I was doing I was just putting the ball in the court and letting him do everything.
 Yeah, I mean, I think it's quite easy to hit the ball so hard when I'm letting him do that.  But, yeah, he plays well.  He's somebody that can play very aggressive.  I knew that.
 But, yeah, to be honest, I warmed up today.  I shouldn't have played.  But I was hoping maybe for a three-set win or something like that, but I knew from the beginning that it wasn't going to be easy (smiling).
 Q. Your coach David Ferrer was cheering you on today, and he was wearing a big jacket, a bit like a mountain expedition leader.  I guess when you're trying to get to the top there is not always a route to get to the top of the mountain.  It can be a steep climb.  Where do you think you are on that mountain at this point in your career?  And how determined are you to get to the top with the help from David and your team and your family?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, I think I'm definitely on a good way, definitely on a good path.  Would have been interesting how I could have done here.  Yeah, unfortunately ended earlier than I wanted it.
 Yeah, I think I'm in a good way.  I think there is still a lot of work that needs to be done.  I think there is still a lot of things that I can do better than I am doing.  But, yeah, in general, I think I'm on the right path.
 Q. I see you keeping your mask on and obviously you're not feeling well.  Obviously because of what's going on in the world, when the last time you were tested for COVID was and if you're worried...
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   I'm not answering your questions.  There is no chance I'm answering your questions from what you have been writing about me over the past months.  Absolutely no chance.
 Q. I'd like to know since you said you have fever if you can tell us how much degrees, 37.something, 38.
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   It was 38.  It was 38 in the night or in the evening.  Yeah.
 Q. I'm a big fan of lots of players on the tour, and I think it's no secret that I'm also a big fan of yours as well.  But there is no doubt that your No. 1 fan is obviously your brother who has been cheering you on at home.  What does it feel like to have someone so close to you or believes in you 100%?  You know he's got your back.  How proud of you of Mischa, knowing he really believes in you as well and you believe in him?  I know you were reunited with your father at Roland Garros, but how much are you looking forward to getting back to Mischa and the family, as well?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, it's great.  Obviously, yeah, we all believe in each other.  I do believe that Mischa is going to come back.  I think he believes I'm going to be a Grand Slam champion soon.  It's all united as a family.
 It's great having his support.  We're gonna be together again in Cologne playing so I'm looking forward to that.
 Q. You are one of the NextGen champions, no?  Do you think another new generation of future champions still arrive, the one of Jannik or Korda, or is too early yet for them?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   They are a next generation.  I'm not next generation anymore.  I'm 23 years old now.  I'm past that.  I'm definitely not NextGen anymore.  I'm definitely not young anymore.  Yeah, they are the young guys.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT