WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 24, 2020
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/A. Zverev
6-3, 3-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Obviously a tough loss.  How did you feel at the end when you kind of lost rhythm with your serve and stuff?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, I mean, this is the thing I was working on for the past six months.  During the match it was okay, but in important moments I think it went again.
But, you know, all in all, it was okay.  I think it was not the best match I have ever played, but after six months off, it's not easy to come back.
And I have said this.  I mean, I just watched Dominic Thiem lose to Krajinovic 6-2, 6-1.  It's the first match back, and I think there is going to be some weird results.
Q. Where do you feel Murray's level is right now?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, it's pretty good.  I was very surprised at how well he's moving.  He's moving quite fine, quite normal.
But as I said, it was a scratchy match.  I think after six months off, it's not easy.  And he played a three-setter, which I think helps him a little bit.
Yeah, credits to him.  He fought to the end and, yeah, he deserves to win.
Q. What are the conditions like out there?  Some people have been talking about the speed of the court.  Does it feel any different to you?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   I think it's quite fast, to be honest.  Yeah, I mean, actually everybody I think is just happy to be out there and happy to be playing again and just enjoying it.
We had quite a crowd out there, actually.  A lot of players came out.  A lot of people came out to watch us.  Yeah, it was enjoyable.  But it's not the ending that I wanted.
Q. Is it strange without the crowd?  I mean, obviously it is, but I mean, what are the challenges for you?  Does it feel different?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, of course it feels different.  You get energy from the crowd.  You get energy after winning a great point.
But, you know, right now everybody is just happy to be competing, I think.
Q. You were saying about being the first match back for you and for pretty much everybody else, as well.  So is it a situation that a result like this, you can just put to one side, as disappointing as it might be because it is a first match back?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, it will be a progress.  It's a progress.  So I think, as I said, there is going to be a lot of scratchy matches in the first few tournaments by a lot of players, but I think by the time the US Open starts everybody should be playing their best tennis, and I hope that will be the case for me, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT