AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2020
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/F. Verdasco
6-2, 6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Fourth round without dropping a set. What's pleased you the most so far?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, it's so far been a good week for me. As I said, it's going to be a process in every match. It has been getting better. Today was the best match I think I've played so far.
I'm happy to be through in straight sets against someone we know they can play well on these courts, can beat anybody. So I'm really happy about that.
Q. During the ATP Cup, you looked a little bit out of place. What have you done from then?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, I answered that a lot of times already.
As I said, I've been on the practice court a lot. I've served a lot. Done other things a lot. It's just practice.
Q. You said on court you're as happy as you have been on the court. What has that been prompted by?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Generally I'm happy outside the court, happy on the court, happy in life. Then I think you play your best. When you have stress outside, when you have stress that I had last year with all sorts of things, you're not going to perform your best.
I have a pretty calm life right now, which is nice for me. I have all the people that are supporting me, all the people that do their jobs here with me.
Yeah, I mean, I just said I enjoyed this match today. It was tough not to really.
Q. Rublev next. How impressed have you been by his 2020 run?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, awesome. 11 matches in a row to start the year. I hope I can break that winning streak. But he's been playing amazing, winning both titles back-to-back, making the fourth round here, beating quality players. It's amazing to see him doing the things that he does because I'm friends with him since we're 10 years old.
We have a great personal relationship, as well. It's going to be a fun match.
Q. 3-Love against him. What makes him so dangerous?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: He's one of the I think most hard-hitting players on tour. Out of every position, he can hit a winner. He improved a lot. I think he improved his serve a lot. He improved his movement a lot, as well.
He's somebody that is very young still, but always is working and always is improving.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT