US OPEN
September 2, 2020
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. ZVEREV/B. Nakashima
 7-5, 6-7, 6-3, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. About your coaches, what made you want to work with David Ferrer?  And what are a couple of things you have learned from him during the time that you have had to work together, assuming you had some time during the break to work?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, I mean, we worked for a few months now.  It's just somebody that I respected so much during the career and after the career, as well.
 We said that we're going to have a trial period, and in that trial period he was so unbelievably well organized and the work has been incredible.  I enjoyed the practices.  I enjoyed the practices more than I did in the last few years.
 Yeah, it was a no-brainer for me.  I'm happy he's joining the team, as well.
 Q. Sorry to ask a question about your opponent, apologies, but as an American, I'm curious, talk about Brandon's game, the one or two things that he really has.  Talk about his upside.  How far do you think that kid can go?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   His serve surprised me a lot because he doesn't serve very fast, but his placement is incredible.  He can go any corner.  He has all the serves that you need.  His second serve is incredibly good.
 Yeah, he's very young, he still needs to develop, but his development over the last few months, years, has been very good.  So I think he can, you know -- what's his ranking now, 100-something?  He's going to be top 100 in no time.  I think he's going to go even further.
 Q. Do you see him as a top-25 player eventually?  Does he have that talent?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Yeah, he definitely has that talent.  I think there is a lot more to being a top-20, top-25 player than just talent.  He can decide for himself.  It's in his hands and his coach's hands.
 Yeah, he definitely has the potential.
 Q. I saw that you had some pit stops.  You were changing the wheels like you're Formula 1.  Changing shoes.  Why that?  Wet?  Was humid?  You had to change to adapt to the surface?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   No, it was quite humid today and I was sweating through my shoes, which is unusual.
 Yeah, it was very humid.  Water coming out of my shoes.  I needed to go from the dry tires to the wet tires a little bit (smiling).
 Q. There were seven set points for Nakashima, and then at the end of those, you made a double fault to give him the second set.  But your chances before, did you get worried when you lost the second set?  Because that guy has an incredible backhand, I think.
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Not worried.  Obviously I didn't want to lose the second set, but I know that if I play my game I can still win.  So it was one set all, everything was still open.
 He's a good player.  Has incredible backhand.  Especially I think for an American where it's kind of more forehands and serve.  I think he has one of the best backhands I have seen from an American in a long time.
 Yeah, he's a great player I think with great potential.
 Q. During the Australian Open you said you try to relax more than usual at a Grand Slam, going out for dinner, et cetera.  It really worked as you reached the semifinals.  I'm curious how you're managing to replicate that relaxed mindset inside the bubble when there is not much to do besides the bubble?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Actually, it's completely different.  You can't compare it.  I mean, obviously, you know, inside the bubble, you can't go anywhere.  You try to spend more time with the people you know.
 Spent a lot of time with my best friend, a lot of time with my team.  So it's different.  All you have is tennis and the bubble, so you can't really get away from it, you can't really have a fresh mind like you do at other tournaments.
 But it's different, and I think players are just enjoying playing.  So I'm happy to just be competing.
 Q. Is there one or two things that you can think of that David has said that has really stuck with you?  Just to give an example of kind of how he's impressed you in your limited time with him so far.
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   One thing that he has said to me is if you ever not feeling your backhand, that's your biggest worry, we will just be fine.  That he said to me.
 Just in general, I mean, we worked on a lot of things.  I'm not going to say what we worked on because I'm still in the tournament, but I think it will show.  It will show over the next few months.
 I'm excited to have him in Europe, as well, for the clay court season and we see from there.
 So far I think he's enjoying it, I'm enjoying it, and he said the most important thing is to have fun with what you do.  Once you have fun, you're going to be better, anyways.
 Q. I did want to ask you what your thoughts were about the player association, if you would.  What are your thoughts about the new group?  And have you signed up?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   I haven't signed the paper.  But I think it's a great thing that players do want to come together.  I think it's great that we can be more united.  I have to give credits -- whether somebody signs the paper or not, that's in their decision.  But I have to give credit to Novak and to Vasek, because a World No. 1 has more things to do than, you know, do some player union or something like that, or not union but association.
 He's a World No. 1.  He has made enough money.  He doesn't need to worry about that.  He doesn't need to worry about anything, but he does.  He does worry about the well-being of other players.  He does worry about the wealth of our sport and stuff like that.
 So I think I have to give a lot of credit to him for taking the time and doing these things, because in his position, to be honest, he doesn't need to.  He just simply doesn't need to.  He can relax and not do anything and he will be just fine.  But he cares about other players, which is great, I think.
 Q. What effect does the absence of Federer and Nadal have on the tournament and on you?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   I mean, look, yeah, it's two players that are not here, and they are two of the greatest.  So obviously it will have a little bit of an effect, but I think this year's US Open is different in many ways.  We don't have spectators, the crowd is gone, and stuff like that.
 So, yeah, it has an effect.  Obviously it's not the same, but at some point those two will retire, as well.  And we will play every tournament without them.
 Q. You hit 24 aces but 10 double faults.  Was your service game more inconsistent than you would have liked?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   Take the 10 double faults away and it's perfect, and I wasn't broken today.  You can always complain but sometimes it's better not to find something to complain about.
 Q. In which one of the two player hotels are you staying?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   I'm at the Marriott.
 Q. I was told in one of them there were four wedding ceremonies.  Is that true or not?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   I don't know if it was four or not, but -- I don't know if it was four or not, but I do know there was weddings, yes, at the other hotel, which was not part of the bubble.
 Q. It wasn't you getting married?
 ALEXANDER ZVEREV:   I did not get married (laughter).  I need to find someone to get married to first.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT