NITTO ATP FINALS
November 13, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. TSITSIPAS/A. Zverev
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Stefanos played great, but you are still there. It depends of you still to qualify. Are you going to look to the numbers or just come out with Medvedev and...
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I'm in the same situation I was last year, pretty much exactly the same. I mean, I lost the second match quite easily. Didn't, you know, play my best.
But, you know, my chances are in my hands. I'm looking forward to it. There is nothing I can do about today now. He played a fantastic match, I thought. I played really bad.
At this level, this is how it goes when somebody plays great and you don't play your best. It can go this way, especially against him who I think this surface, these conditions fit him quite well.
Q. You just said something about it, but how do you explain it, the fact that one day you play so well versus Nadal and the next day or two days after you don't play as well? It's just the opponent? Is just a bad day at the office? I mean, how do you explain it if you have to talk to yourself and say, This is what happened?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Look, days like this happen. It's just how it is in sports. I mean, you know, against Rafa, I obviously played a great match. Today I didn't. This is just how it is sometimes, even though I have to give credit to him. He played really well.
But still, there is a lot of things that I did not do great, and I have to change that to have a chance on Friday.
But, you know, things are still in my hands, and I'm looking forward to it, because I can still decide whether I'm here on Saturday or not.
Q. Do you think when you play Daniil on Friday he'll be more tougher to beat because he's got nothing to lose?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Is he out? He's out, right? No, he's not out. He's not out. If he wins in two...
So there you go. He still has something to play for, I guess. He's not going to win in two, though. (Laughter.)
Q. I made the same question to Stefanos, Sascha. It seems after the Laver Cup, you two have a better relationship, getting to know each other better. Is that a fact? Because Stefanos just said this is true. You're getting to know each other better.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah.
Q. You fit together better.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I have said it many times. I think our relationship has grown since the Laver Cup a lot.
Q. Stefanos...
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Did you just call me Stefanos?
Q. Sorry. Sorry. That's okay. You play with the same outfits. Okay. This year you're not in the same position ranking-wise. What do you think of your game, if you're technically as evolved or the results this year was sort of, you know, on the mental side? Even though you're still an elite player, of course.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I think, I mean, a lot this year has to do with my mental state and how it was during the year. So it was not tennis only. It was everything else.
But I have said it a million times before. I think you guys know that already.
So, yeah. I mean, it's going to be interesting. I just hope to finish the season strong. I just hope to kind of do the best I can here and get ready for 2020, because I think 2020 will be a very interesting year not only for me but for the young guys in general.
Q. Some of the television commentators tonight were suggesting that you were using your phone and your bag...
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: My phone? My phone was in the locker room, actually.
Q. Obviously it got a bit of traction in social media. I wanted to give you an opportunity to respond to these allegations as to why you might be pushing buttons in your bag.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: My phone was in the locker room. I always leave it there. I don't know what they saw, but it was definitely not a phone.
Q. Can you suggest what it might be? Seemed like you were pushing something in your bag.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, a water bottle? Empty water bottle maybe?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT