NITTO ATP FINALS
November 11, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/R. Nadal
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Given your title last year and this win, your first against Rafa, would you say this is a magical court for you?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Sorry, what?
Q. Would you say it's a magical court for you, given the title and this win against Rafa?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: It's definitely a place and a court that I love, and that brings maybe the best out of me.
Yeah, I mean, I'm super happy, obviously. It was a great night for me, especially, you know, me struggling the whole year, and then obviously -- I'm still the defending champion coming back here and the last tournament of the year I qualified. So it was never a sure thing.
Obviously when I'm here, I want to use the opportunity as much as I can and do the best as I can.
Today was definitely a great match, and I'm super happy to kind of have this match, you know, the first day that I play.
Q. Last time I saw you, you were in Geneva winning the final points for your team, and everybody was jumping over you. You were on the floor and you had, I don't know, five companions. Today you won an important match. What is the difference? You are alone to win a match like today, important, very important, and in Geneva, you know, was a team effort, a lot of players. The emotions are more today? They were more then? What is the reaction when you go back home?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: You cannot compare. In Geneva, it was the last match, the last point, and kind of the tournament was over. It was a team atmosphere. It was for the team, as well. It was different.
And today is just the first of hopefully five matches for me. We will see how it goes, but obviously winning in a group stage is very important. Having those kind of matches is very important, as well.
Both, I was very happy. Both are very happy moments for me. But Geneva, before that I didn't play my best, and obviously Geneva was maybe the turning point of the season, and after that I started playing much, much better. In China, as well.
That helped me a lot, having the team atmosphere, having those guys, Roger and Rafa coach me, as well, a little bit, and letting me play the deciding match because we had a lot of guys, we had Stefanos, we had Dominic who then played instead of Rafa, to play the last match. But they said they trust me the most and kind of went for me there. That was very special for me.
But today obviously it's different. You cannot compare. The World Tour Finals, it's against the World No. 1. You know, you can't even compare the two, I think.
Q. You've got Stefanos next on Tuesday. Just some thoughts on the match.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Wednesday, actually.
Q. Wednesday, sorry.
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, we played two times this year. Both didn't go my way but both fantastic matches. Especially I think in Beijing it was very, very close and could have gone both ways, even though it was two sets.
But, yeah, it's going to be interesting. He played a fantastic match today, I thought, especially for the first time playing here. It's never easy.
Yeah, I'm looking forward to it. I'm happy to be playing this match on Wednesday, and we'll see how it goes. But I think, you know, looking back at this match today, I feel well on court.
Q. Since there were many doubts about Nadal playing, not playing before this tournament, did you notice anything that you thought he was playing a little bit less than you expected or you thought it was normal as usual? Or you thought just that you played unbelievably well and so you won it?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I did play pretty well (smiling). But, you know, the whole thing was about the serve. I think he was serving actually pretty well today. I didn't see massive difference there.
But, yeah, obviously when I play this aggressive tennis, when I play this way, I have now beaten all three guys on this court, big 3, so it shows that I can play very well and beat the top players.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT