ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 11, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/R. Federer
6-3, 6-7, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Big win. I imagine this win was a big confidence boost for you knowing that now you have, in the previous head-to-head record against Roger, now you're taking one game of it?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, obviously it was an important match. The head-to-head is obviously a great thing to have, but more importantly for me is it was a match to kind of maybe turn my year around a little bit, and the race to London is also very important.
So I'm happy to be in the semifinals now and give myself the best chance to win maybe two more matches here.
Q. What was the internal dialogue in yourself after you lost the second set and after the five match points and having to start the third set?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: There was no dialogue. Absolutely none (smiling).
Q. What do you take away from a match like that? How does it help your confidence and also your mind going forward?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: It helps a lot. I mean, obviously the five match points I had in the second set, you know, them going away and still knowing that I can win in three sets is very important, especially against someone like Roger because normally he doesn't let go of these kind of matches.
It was great and very important for me, for myself, for me mentally. And, you know, going into the next few tournaments and going into the next few matches here is also going to be, I think, a big thing for me, knowing that I can win these kind of matches.
Q. When you see an opponent, never mind Roger or anyone else, who is kind of getting maybe a bit upset, getting into an argument with the chair umpire, what does that do for you? Does that kind of bore you up? It must encourage you in a way, because you know you're getting underneath their skin?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, because actually he started to play much better every time he got something out of him.
You know, obviously I think emotions in sport are great. I didn't know what was happening with the umpire, didn't pay close attention, but, you know, every time he had an argument, he started playing better.
Maybe it was a way to help him, as well, to get himself going. But, you know, he will always find a way. That's why he's the greatest player of all time, because he will, in difficult situations, difficult periods where his mind is maybe not at his best, he will still find a way to make it difficult for you.
Q. Last week in Beijing we had four very young semifinalists. The same here in Shanghai. I know Grand Slam is not ATP Masters or ATP 500, but do you have belief we will finally have a new Grand Slam champion next year?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I think so, to be honest. Next year, maybe in the following year, but in the next two years I think 100%.
Q. Regarding your schedule, did you think at some point to add Antwerp in order to make some points for London, or were you clear that you wouldn't change it whatever you were doing here?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I was thinking about Stockholm, actually, but now I won't. I'm in semis here. I will give myself the best chance to be in the final on Sunday, and I think adding another tournament is not the best idea. I'd rather be fresh for Basel and Paris to come after that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT