LAVER CUP
September 20, 2019
Roger Federer
Thomas Enqvist
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FEDERER-ZVEREV/Shapovalov-Sock
6-3, 7-5
Team Europe - 3
Team World - 1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Roger, would you say that one of the top perks of this concept for all of you guys is the ability to advise and coach each other and with so much passion?
ROGER FEDERER: I think it ended up being one of the secrets of the Laver Cup, you know, why it's also maybe fans tune in to see and hear what we have to say. We don't do it for that reason that they get that insight. It just happened to be that way.
If you ask anybody on our team, we can't control ourselves not saying anything and then live with regret. So we have to go out, say it, and if it doesn't work, so be it. If it does, we feel a little better (smiling).
So, yes, I actually enjoy it. And also before we go up and talk to the player, we always discuss it internally, like, all the time, with Thomas and Sascha and Dominic, you name it, everybody on the team, whoever is sitting next to you about how we should say it, what we could say and what would help and what not.
You can't say everything you feel sometimes. Otherwise it can backfire on you.
Q. With all the due respect after what you just said, being a coach, you and Nadal of Fabio Fognini today, didn't work. I mean, how do you explain it? Because it was almost a disaster, Fognini. Even Patrick McEnroe said, I didn't think it was Fognini.
ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, but Patrick McEnroe is not -- how do you say? He's on the other team. He can say what he wants. He's not the commentator right now.
Q. So what were you saying to Fognini?
ROGER FEDERER: Bad coaching. It's that simple. Terrible coaching before, during, and after. Maybe we said the right things afterwards, you know, to cheer him up again. But everything that led to the performance didn't work.
No, I think Fabio struggled, you know, just to shake off the nerves. That was my opinion. He tried, we tried, and honestly Jack started to play very well. Got to give that to Jack in that second set. He was able to keep Fabio uncomfortable, and we tried to get Fabio comfortable. But Jack didn't agree with our plan, so there you go (smiling).
Q. Is there one player on the team who has kind of surprised you with how much of a team guy they are, either things that they have said or being extra animated on the bench? Rafa seemed like he was really into all the matches today, but is there one player who has really stood out who you thought would be a little more quiet or wouldn't say as much?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, Rafa is probably the one that gives the most energy on the bench. I mean, he's really acting like he's playing himself, and that gives you great confidence.
As I said today after the match in doubles, I had two guys that were supporting me like crazy, and that's why I think I played very well in doubles, as well. Roger obviously by my side playing with me, and then Rafa on the bench in important moments. You know, you can kind of give him a look or kind of try to take something out of him, and he's the one that gives you the most, I think, on our team.
ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, agreed. Good answer. Not that you need my approval (smiling).
Q. Roger, how would you sum up...
ROGER FEDERER: Where is your orange tie, Craig?
Q. That was yesterday.
ROGER FEDERER: Okay. You're sweating out the tie? Is it stinky or what? I'm kidding. (Laughter.)
Q. How would you sum up today? I think most people thought this was going to be a straight-forward day for Team Europe, and obviously it was incredibly close. It could have been 2-All at the end of today. If you had to sum up the day, what would your thoughts be?
ROGER FEDERER: We are very happy with 3-1, I tell you that. I'm not a negative or a pessimistic guy. I'm a super-positive guy. But I was looking at a 2-All today before the day. Just the feelings I had.
You know, we had Fabio and Stefanos as first-timers, and we had Dominic playing Shapo, who has been playing well, and then we had the doubles. So if you look at it from that standpoint, I was just a little bit worried that somehow, you know, we were maybe even going to be behind or 2-All. So I said I'm happy if we get to 2-All. We even went to 3-1. From that standpoint, I'm relieved.
I know, how do you say, the press and the people are saying, Oh, it's always going to be 4-Love or whatever, and it was a sensation that Fabio lost and all that, but it's so tough. Indoors happens so quick. You get a break, which you tend to get sometimes, and the set's gone and you're in a rough one, in a super-break or something.
So from that standpoint, I think we are very, very happy going into tomorrow.
Q. Roger, what's your thought on the atmosphere today overall, how it all seemed to you after the way you envisioned it playing in your country and this event?
ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I mean, I think -- I mean, it's intense, you know. Great-looking stadium. Mexican wave. I mean, that's always cool.
The noise at the players' welcome, I mean, is something else. It's that loud. That's very special for me and the team.
And then during the match, I think it's good, good energy. Sometimes there is moments where I feel like they could be even more cheerful, you know, throughout, but I'm not going to start complaining at all. I'm very, very happy.
If it stays this way, it's great, but I always think that Friday is, of any days, is the slowest one, and it was already extremely high.
I don't know if you can top it. I really don't. But I think they're going to even take it up a notch, to be quite honest. Special to see Rafa. I think it's going to bring that, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT