ROLAND GARROS
June 6, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/A. Zverev
7-5, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You got off to a very strong start in the first set, going up a break for 5-4.  Something from there slip from your game?  What do you think made the rest of the match go his way?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I could have broken him I think earlier in the first set.  I had a few 15-40s. Had a lot of breakpoints.  You know, really thought that the first set should have gone my way.  And then played three really bad games from there on.
You know, then once he's in control, he's very tough to beat.  He's World No. 1 for a reason.
Things happen, and it's fine.  At least I'm not injured this year, so I can prepare for the grass and hopefully do well there.
Q. Another good Roland Garros for you, reaching another quarterfinal.  Can you tell us about your experience here over the last few weeks off the back of a good win in Geneva?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, it's been nice, but I feel like I'm at a stage where, you know, quarterfinals, something like that, you know, I could go further.  You know, from the seedings, I should be in the quarters.
I hoped more from this match, really.  But once the first set slipped away, it was kind of difficult to play him.
Q. Were you thinking, heading into this tournament, that this would be the tournament in which you broke through to make it to the semis to possibly compete for winning Roland Garros?  What do you think is the Grand Slam in which you have the best opportunity to break through?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: This year probably the US Open.  You know, but then we'll see.  We'll see how it goes.
Q. You mentioned your seeding.  This is the first match you have played in a long time in a slam where you're playing someone seeded above you.  I'm curious if there's any more sort of freedom from that or if you were able to play and feel like less to lose?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, doesn't matter.  From here on, there's only good players in quarterfinals.  There is only players that deserve to be here.  Yeah, you guys have two great semifinals tomorrow, and I hope you guys all enjoy that.  You know, I'll be in training trying to get better.
Q. As you said, you couldn't really prepare for Wimbledon last year because of the injury.  What's going to be your schedule this year?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I have no idea.  I just came off the court.  I'm playing Halle.  Nothing before that.
Q. Considering you just came off the court, a tough question, but you have had the opportunity to play the very top players, Roger, Rafa, and Djokovic.  Could you just give a few comments comparing their three games or who the toughest overall would be, not just on clay?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: You know, three greatest players that ever played the game probably.  All three are always tough to play.  You know, Rafa is someone that, you know, on clay is probably the toughest to beat out of everybody.
Novak, once he gets up on you, he doesn't let go.  You know, what he does on a tennis court, when he's up in the score, he's unplayable.
Roger has so many different kind of things, and, you know, has a lot of variety.  He always has a way to get back in a match, if you like.  All three obviously tough to play.
Q. What did you make in that scene?  I think it was 4-All in the first set when Novak gave you that first serve back.  I know it happens from time to time on the clay, but what's that say about Novak and what were you thinking there?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: It's great sportsmanship, obviously.  Not a lot of guys who would have done that, especially important moment in the first set.
You know, credits to him.  You know, he's a great guy for doing that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT