ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/M. Ymer
6-1, 6-3, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Another good win.  We have an expression in England, which you might know.  That when we are not feeling on top form, we say something along the lines of "I've lost my mojo."
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I haven't.
Q. I'm glad to hear, but now you have got such a good run of results on clay, I wanted to know, do you think now you're finding your mojo?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, I think I'm playing well again.  I think a lot of tight matches have helped me in Geneva and here in the first round.
Yeah, today I was swinging at the ball quite nicely and hitting it very aggressively and it was a very good match for me.
Q. What has pleased you most about your two wins so far here at Roland Garros?  What aspects of your game do you think are going well?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: In important moments I'm finally being very aggressive and stepping up.  I think especially against John in the fifth set I stepped up a lot and, you know, this is I think what I'm happiest about.
Generally, today, today was a good match.  I think it could have been even easier than the score was.  All in all, I think I'm starting to play really well.
Q. You've got great support from the crowd on the court today.  I saw you smiling at one of your fans towards the end of the match, singing you a song.  You have built a good connection with the fans at Roland Garros.  Why do you think that is?  And what is it that you enjoy so much about Roland Garros when you are on the court?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Because they see me a lot, I feel like.  I feel like I spend the most time on court when I play a match.  I guess they have got used to me a little bit now.
As I said, I always enjoy playing here, I always enjoyed coming here since I'm a junior.  I guess people, even though I'm 22 years old, people have watched me for a while here, so it's a great thing and I hope the crowd will give me a lot of support throughout the whole tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT