THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 1, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. VESELY/A. Zverev   
4-6, 6-3, 6-2, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you put your finger on what happened today?  Where did it go wrong?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: It was kind of a typical Grand Slam match for me.  I started off well, then one or two things don't go my way, and everything kind of a little bit falls apart.   
Yeah, I'm not very high on confidence right now.  When I get to the important moments, I had, what, five, six breakpoints in the fourth set alone, can't take any of those.  I had a Love-40, a 15-40.  I'm down one breakpoint myself and he takes it immediately, where I miss an easy volley.   
So, yeah.  I didn't lose this match on tennis.  It's just, yeah, my confidence is below zero right now.   
 Q.  Why is that?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Because I haven't won much this year.  Simple.   
 Q.  I'm not sure if you watched his match against Dominic here a couple years ago, what you expected from him.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Did he win against Dominic?   
 Q.  Yes.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, as I said, I could have won this match.  I had enough chances.  I had enough opportunities.  It's not about that.  Yeah, I have to win tennis matches outside Grand Slams to play well at the Grand Slams.  I haven't done it enough in the last few months, so...   
I have to change that.   
 Q.  You mentioned it was a typical Grand Slam match for you.  Do you have a sense, is it a physical, mental thing over five sets?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, it's just what happens with me.  Physically I'm fine.  I can play 10 sets, no problem.  I don't really get tired.   
Yeah, mental, I mean, I get down on myself a lot.  But, yeah, I don't think it's neither of those because mentally I showed I'm quite strong in the last few years.  It's different things I think right now.   
Life is also one thing.  Everything that happens outside the court affects you.  In the last two days, I would say are very rough for me personally.  I'm not going to get into details, but I'm just saying.  I have to fix that to play well on the court.   
 Q.  There's things in your control?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: They're not.   
 Q.  You talked about wanting to play well outside slams.  You did not enter Washington this year, where you won a couple times in a row.  What led into that decision?  Might you take a wild card there?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Probably not.  The tournament organization changed this year.  It's a new main owner.  For some reason he does not like me very much, so...   
 Q.  How do you sense he doesn't like you?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well, he doesn't like me.  You can figure it out yourself, I think.  He likes other players more.   
 Q.  It was nice in the day of defeat to see you waiting for your opponent to get out of the court.  Not every player is able to do that when he's particularly pissed off for what happened.  I want to say that.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Thank you.   
 Q.  Are you thinking about steps to take?  You mentioned that it's a confidence, mental thing.  Are you actively looking to change anything?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: We'll see.  I have a few months until US Open.  I'll figure it out.  I've always said that the US Open this year is the tournament that I think I can have my breakthrough at the Grand Slams.   
Let's be realistic:  grass is not my favorite surface if you look at the past.  Even though I had a very good draw here, Wimbledon is always tough for me.  Especially if I play someone like Vesely in the first round, who serves very well, I thought returned extremely well today.   
Yeah, it's never easy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT