MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 9, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/H. Hurkacz
3-6, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Madrid, you are the champion, so you like the city, or you have had bad results in the last times.  A good city, a place where you have won.  Can it improve your confidence?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: For sure.  It's a place where I always have had good memories, I always played well, and it is nice to come back here and to show that I'm still one of the best players in the world and be able to play my best and always find a way as well.  Today was a very tough match, so I hope tomorrow's going to be better for me.
Q. What do you think is better for your confidence, winning a match that is more easy, or winning like today that's a tough match?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Today, I needed that win for sure because the last two matches, I lost where I had match points and I lost 7-5 in the third and 7-6 in the third.  So a match like this I really need.  And I was down a break in the second, down with a break in the third, and I always try to find a way and today was very important I think for me.
Q. It's been a tough season for you taking into account the high level of the draw in this tournament.  Having reached the quarterfinals, it is something that, or is it more than you had expected?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: More than I expected?  Definitely not.  I'm still No. 4 in the world so I still know how to play tennis even though if I didn't have the results I wanted in the last few months.  I didn't forget how to swing a tennis racquet and I hope I can play better.
I hope I can still play better and continue building and then the results will come by themselves.
Q. I would like to know about Stefanos Tsitsipas.  How do you face this match?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yes, a great player.  Obviously, he's one of the best players in the world this year.  Played unbelievable at the beginning of the year.  He's played a lot as well.  He has been playing almost every week.
So, it is going to be interesting and it will be very interesting.  A lot of people are looking forward to that match-up, two young guys kind of playing good, and we will see how it goes.
Q. Last night, you beat Ferrer.  What were your feelings because you didn't come to the press place, it was Ferrer's night.  But the other point of view?
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, I won the match, but it was definitely his night.
It was a great honor for me to be able to play the last match of his career against me.  And, obviously, as I said, I have so much respect for him, so much respect for him as a person, as a player, and I wish him nothing but the best.  I hope he doesn't disappear from the tennis circuit completely and that we will still see him around.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT