ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/J. Millman   
7-6, 6-3, 2-6, 6-7, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Sascha...  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Here we go again.   
 Q.  Good to see you again.  Just before we talk about today's game, last year here at Roland Garros was a very special time.  People loved you on and off the court.  What would make Roland Garros special for you again this year?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I don't know, but if I win it, I'm going to Yorkshire.  That's the first thing I'm going.   
 Q.  I'm going to teach you Yorkshire.  That is a deal.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Look, I'm here to play my best.  I'm here to win matches.  Today was a tough one.  You know, I'm excited to what's coming ahead.  Most important, I'm still in the tournament, and that's all that matters.   
 Q.  How much confidence do you take from your win in Geneva and, again, getting off to a good start here today?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, a lot.  In Geneva, I won a lot of tight matches that I lost this year on the clay, and, you know, I think Geneva helped me today, as well.   
Obviously very different conditions out there.  Very difficult to play today.  But, you know, I think it's great that I came through and this is the most important.   
 Q.  You have had a challenging year so far.  Lots of expectation placed on you.  How do you feel about that expectation and also about your form right now?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I mean, everybody keeps on saying I had a tough year.  I mean, I'm still No. 5 in the world.  Any of you guys know what I am on the race to London?  I'm top 10.   
So it's not that bad, to be honest (smiling).  Somebody's having a tough year is probably outside of the top 50 or something like that.  I'm still top 10 of the race.  So that's what matters.   
 Q.  What do you expect in the next round against Mikael?  Do you know much about him?  You played four years ago I think.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: We played in Stockholm.  It was a great match.  Tough match.  Obviously he's improved a lot.  Had a few, I think, very good matches here.  Came through qualifying.   
He has great rhythm, great confidence.  It's going to be an interesting one.  I know his brother better than him.  I actually did a training block this year with his brother.   
Yeah, it's going to be a fun one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT