MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. TSITSIPAS/A. Zverev   
7-5, 3-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Tsitsipas won, but he is one of the best.  Last year he got to the final in Barcelona, so he is also a candidate.  He has not your curriculum, but it was a big fight.  And the court, do you think the match would have been better in the center court?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: It doesn't matter.  I never lost a match on center court here.  I like the court more.  I mean, he's playing very good.  He's obviously improved a lot.  His serve is very, very good, I was surprised today.   
And the second shot he hits it unbelievably aggressive so it was not easy.  I mean, I actually thought I played really well the first two sets.   
I had a one bad game in two sets and that was at 5-All when he broke me and I kind of broke myself there.  So, this was the only thing.   
Going into the third set, if I break earlier than 1-1, maybe it would be different.  But, yeah, he won today and he's in the semifinals and I got to go to Rome and prepare the best I can.   
 Q.  You said he is playing very well.  The field here is pretty strong in the semifinals.  You have Novak and Dominic and one of Rafa and Stan.  Do you think he is playing well enough to go through that field and win this title?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, he's not the favorite probably, but yeah, he's playing well.  I think if I would have won today, I would have been even better.  Even maybe one more step towards really playing my best tennis.  So tennis is really one or two points that decide a match.   
If I played a little more aggressive in that third set on breakpoints, maybe I go up a break and win the match as well.  But everything happens for a reason.   
And I still got to improve.  And as I said a few weeks ago, I think every week is going to be better for me and this week was better than the last week, the last week was better than the previous week, and next week I hope is going to be better than this week, so basically for the French Open I'll be perfect (laughing).   
 Q.  You said this week is better than last week.  What areas of your game have you improved the most over the past week?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Playing more aggressive in the more important moments because that is why I lost today.  Let's be realistic.   
I mean, a few of those faults in the match to the 2-1 game to break myself in the third set and I played very defensive in that game.  And to step up and play the same way even in the important moments.  This is something I was always doing really well the last year and I got to get that back again.   
 Q.  I think I'm right in saying that you will need a pretty decent result in Rome next week to be a top four seed at the French Open.  Is it that important to you to be in the top four here?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Zero importance.  I have been in the quarterfinals once of a Slam.  For me, it is about playing well.  Once I play well, I know that I can be on a court with anybody.  And this is the most important for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT