AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/J. Chardy   
7-6, 6-4, 5-7, 6-7, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You had two intense first- and second-round matches.  Is it a concern for you a lot of energy going through the first two rounds?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I think if you go five sets, it's always energy consuming, especially today, being two sets to love up, then two sets all.  A lot of nerves involved, as well.   
I thought the match was very high quality, high level.  Jeremy started playing really, really well in the second and third set -- third and fourth, sorry.   
I knew if I stayed strong, if I keep doing what I'm doing, I'll get my chances.  I actually had my chances in all sets.  Didn't manage to break.   
Matches can turn around quickly.  I'm just happy to kind of be in the third round.   
 Q.  You mentioned the 2-Love to 2-All.  How impressed are you mentally and physically to be able to close it out emphatically?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, it was good.  I was never two sets to love up and then two sets all.  That was my first time today.  It was definitely helpful that I won this match.  I'm still in the tournament, first of all, but also for myself it's very helpful, as well.   
 Q.  You spoke of Alex Bolt's journey.  What did you know from him game before?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Not much.  I saw him play doubles a little bit here.  They had this run here a few years ago with I don't know who, another Australian guy.  But yeah, I mean, his journey is quite amazing.  He's playing really good tennis right now.  Obviously being in the third round, beating Gilles Simon, which is never easy.   
I'm happy for him.  But in two days' time, I'll be playing him.  I'll do everything I can to prevent him going further.   
 Q.  He's ranked 155, you're top 5.  What gives you the edge, obviously more experience?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, look, I don't know his game too well.  I've seen him play today.  He has a big serve, big forehand.  I mean, he's obviously playing maybe the best tennis of his life, beating Gilles Simon in a Grand Slam, his own Grand Slam, obviously very good.   
We'll see tomorrow what to expect.  We'll look at some videos from him.  Right now I'm not thinking about it too much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT