AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 12, 2019
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Are you considering playing mixed doubles on a more kind of regular basis in the slams or Olympics?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: That's the best question I've gotten as a first question ever (smiling).   
In Olympics, I probably will, with Angie hopefully.  But, no, not in tournaments.   
 Q.  Why is the difference?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, because Olympics you play for a gold medal.  You play for not only yourself but your country.  An Olympic gold medal, doesn't matter what discipline you get it in, it's a gold medal.  As tennis players, Grand Slams, especially the singles players, we want to win in singles, not anything else really.   
 Q.  But it's eight days.  Aren't you concerned about having to play multiple events in eight days or nine?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I'll survive (smiling).   
 Q.  How is the body feeling?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Good.  I mean, the ankle is fine.  It's just a little bit swollen.  I didn't actually twist it.  I just kind of went over it a little bit.  You know, actually what happened was a bone pushed against another bone.  There was, like, inflammation between those two bones.   
I'm fine.  I'm going to play with the tape.  It's just a little bit uncomfortable, but it's nothing that can get worse or anything like that.  I'm actually quite relaxed about it.   
 Q.  What is your reaction to Andy Murray?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I saw that.  Obviously he's one of the best guys on tour outside the court.  He's always super nice to be around, super nice to kind of be in the locker room with.   
The media always kind of puts him as a boring guy who doesn't give interviews well or something like that.  No, he's actually one of the funniest and coolest dudes out there.   
We as players, the amount of support he got, as well, you can see how much we really like, really appreciate what he's done.  So I hope he can really enjoy the last few months and just have a happy retirement.   
 Q.  Especially popular with WTA players who felt he was supportive of them.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I don't know them.  I'm not in their locker room.   
 Q.  Is there something other ATP players can do to get similar support from the women?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, this is a way deeper question.  I don't know.  I don't know the answer to it.   
I would like to think I'm popular, but maybe for different reasons (smiling).  I'm kidding, of course.  Don't take it too seriously.   
Look, he's always a very supportive guy for equality, kind of for female rights, which I think in our sport we really show that we all are.  Our sport is one of the only sports where you have equal prize money, Grand Slams.  You have actually true equality.  Sometimes we even say we play five sets, they play three sets, but it's still equal prize money.   
I'm very proud of that.  I'm very proud of that as a tennis player.  I'm really proud to say really I play a sport where, you know, it doesn't matter who you are, it doesn't matter where you're from, you have the same chances, women or men.   
For me, he always says it publicly.  I support him with that actually.   
 Q.  What expectations are you putting on yourself for this fortnight?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I don't put any on me actually, to be honest.  I've never been past the third round, so we'll see how it goes.  But I just want to enjoy being here.  I just want to enjoy playing as much as I can.  I just want to enjoy playing in the biggest stadiums, playing in the biggest matches.   
Once I learn how to really enjoy it and really find fun in what I do, I think everything else will take care of itself.   
 Q.  It looks like you're very passionate about playing in the Olympics.  You've been adamant you don't want to play in Davis Cup.  As it stands, the two things can't go together.  Do you know something we don't know?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: What do you mean?   
 Q.  Unless you play Davis Cup, you can't play in the Olympics.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Well, I will play Davis Cup now in February, so...  The rule is you have to play one time, right?   
 Q.  Yes.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: So there is my one time.  I actually played all the Davis Cups in the last few years.  I think I qualify on that regards.  I still will not play in November because in November, in that time, I am in the Maldives in the sun, not playing Davis Cup.   
 Q.  ATP players wanting a leadership change.  Do you have any opinions on this?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: God, I mean, you know more than me, to be honest.  I've never heard it before.  We have a players meeting at 6:30 today.  You can ask me again maybe after Tuesday's match, I can tell you more.   
Right now I have no idea.  Maybe players also think I'm too young to be in politics, so they keep me out of it (smiling).   
 Q.  You say you're looking to find fun in the sport.  Is it tricky at slams or five-set matches?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Look, I always enjoy playing.  I always enjoy competing, playing the sport that I love.  There's always a lot of pressure to it, always the question of, When are you going to win a Grand Slam?   
I came to London before, and I wasn't playing my best.  I lost to Khavanov 6-2, 6-1.  I lost to other guys.  I really wasn't playing well.  I came to London saying, Look, it's the last tournament of the year, we're all tired, you want to go on holidays.  I want to enjoy it as much as I can.  I'm playing the best players in the world, I'm going to see how it goes.   
At the end of the week, I won the tournament.  I kind of learned out of that.  I kind of figured out I have to have the same mentality when I play at slams.  I hope I can achieve that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT