ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 10, 2018
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/N. Basilashvili   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Could you talk a little about your match today and how you're playing and feeling.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, I played an opponent who has a lot of confidence.  Obviously he's playing the best tennis of his life, winning in Beijing, and obviously he had a very good match yesterday, as well.   
He knows how to play, definitely.  Probably "the" hardest-hitting player I have ever played against.   
I mean, I played all right.  I played a solid match.  I did everything that I needed to win.   
Focused a lot, focused on my game.  As you can probably hear in my voice, I'm a little sick right now, so feeling a little bit low energy, but I hope it will get better over the next few days.   
 Q.  Ivan was in Beijing but not here, right?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah.   
 Q.  How is it going with him in the early days?  Does he message you when he's not here?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, he's good.  He's in hospital right now, though.   
 Q.  Really?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, he has wrist surgery.  He had to fly back.  We didn't stop or anything, so everything is fine (smiling).   
He just has some sort of small wrist surgery that he has to do, and then he'll be back in Europe, in London, for sure.  And then I have to see where or we have to talk about how his recovery is going and where else he can go.   
 Q.  Was that an accident that happened here or something that was pre-existing?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, that's his golf.  He's playing too much (smiling).   
 Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about when you got sick, what the situation is.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, I started feeling it about probably Sunday/Monday.  Just, I mean, I have a stuffed nose and I had throat pain.  You know, it's just a cold.  It's nothing major.  I can still play through it, as I did today.   
 Q.  So you're practicing like normal?  Spending a lot more time just hanging out in the room and resting?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, I'm basically on a normal practice schedule.  Obviously when the tournament is going on, I'm not going to practice as much.  I have done that in Beijing.  I mean, I practiced through the tournament and I was a little tired, but, you know, here it's a Masters so I'm going to focus on matches.   
 Q.  First of all, De Minaur next.  He's had a pretty good year.  What do you make of the challenge he will pose?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, he's had a fantastic year.  He's nearly top 30 and obviously playing great tennis, as well.  I played him twice this year.  Once was a very tough match in Davis Cup, which went to a very long five sets.  The other one was in the Washington final where I played great.   
You know, obviously it's not going to be an easy match, especially on this surface.  Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  We will see what happens.   
 Q.  Can I just clarify something I read during the Laver Cup?  It said that you will not play Davis Cup if it is in November; is that correct?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yes.  I will not play Davis Cup in November.   
 Q.  And what's your thinking behind that?  Why?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Why?  Because in November I do not want to play tennis anymore.  I think all the top guys will say the same thing.   
I mean, we have one-and-a-half months off in our season, and that's end of November and that's December.  Making a tournament end of November, which is, you know, ten days and playing and competing, it's crazy.  I mean, by the end of the year, we are all tired.   
I mean, for us as top players we had discussions, we had talks with ATP how to make the season shorter and not longer.  No, it's not happening, and I guarantee you I will not be the only one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT