U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2018
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/N. Mahut   
6-4, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Big match out there.  Tough conditions, playing in the heat and so forth, as it has been all week.  You have gotten yourself into the third round here, first time here.  I know you have expectations beyond that.  Just talk about how you're playing and where you are.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: No, I mean, this was always the Grand Slam that I didn't play my best ever.  You know, not even that I lost, but just game-wise.  Game-wise, I never felt comfortable here.  Finally I do.   
I feel like I'm playing well.  I feel like today, he was a tough opponent.  He had a few matches here already.  He still knows how to play singles even though his ranking dropped a little bit, but that's more because he's playing more doubles now than singles.  But he's still a great player.   
I had to focus from first moment to last and kind of play my game.  I'm happy to be through.  Obviously, this is not me being satisfied.  Of course I'm happy to be through, but, you know, I'm already thinking about my next match.   
 Q.  You say this is not the Grand Slam you have played your best in, but some people take to the New York environment, you know, all the craziness of New York and like that.  What is it?  Obviously your game has evolved, but are you handling...  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I'm doing a lot of stuff different.  I don't go out at all.  I have my three restaurants that I go to and that's it.  I spend the least possibly time here on-site because that takes energy away, as well.  There is a lot of people, you know, it's massive kind of stadium, a lot of players.   
Try to get myself, you know, kind of in my surroundings.  Having it more like a home tournament for me, like where I am only with my friends, only with my family and my team.  That's what I'm doing different.  This year.  May be enjoying New York a little less, but that gives me, you know, the credibility to play better.   
 Q.  A number of taller players, including yourself, are moving into the third round.  Can you talk a little bit about how your height factors into your play and how you have been using it to your advantage?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, obviously bigger serves.  The taller you are, the bigger your serve.   
I think tennis is going towards the direction of powerful, hard hitters, and that's what us tall people are.  We are trying to play very aggressive, we're trying to make a lot of winners, and, I mean, I don't know.  That's what tall players kind of do.   
 Q.  Kohlschreiber next.  Talk about that match.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: We played a few times, we played here first round three years ago.  It was a five-set match.  Obviously, I was much younger, and he was better than me back then.   
He's a great guy.  He's a great opponent.  Obviously we played the final this year in Munich, as well.   
I know him quite well.  He knows me.  Davis Cup teammates.  It's going to be interesting in a few days' time.   
 Q.  I just found out recently that you were in my town, Florence, Italy, as a fashion testimonial for Zegna.  What did you do for them and what are you going to do?  Can you tell me something about that?  It was a surprise.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I'm the first ever brand ambassador for Zegna.  It's a great fashion company.  Been in the business for hundred years, and it's one of the best fashion iconic brands in the world.   
So I'm very proud of being involved and then being able to kind of be with them together and have some ideas, as well, about it.  It's great.  It's a great partnership.   
 Q.  What are you doing with them?  The future?  Is it expiring this month?  Are you going to the discoteque?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I don't go to nightclubs or discoteque.  That's not going to happen.  I wear Zegna all the time.  Outside of the court, I'm wearing Zegna.  That's all I'm wearing.   
 Q.  This morning during your practice, you were a little bit nervous about your forehand.  What was the reason?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Today in practice, I didn't feel the ball well.  That changed very quickly in the match, and I thought I was playing very well.  Today in practice, it was very early.  I was still half asleep.  I was kind of not happy about being awake in that time.  All of those things together.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT