THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 7, 2018
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. GULBIS/A. Zverev   
7-6, 4-6, 5-7, 6-3, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You said yesterday you were not feeling very well.  How were you today?  Was your sickness a factor in the fifth set where you seemed very tired?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I felt fine.  I was tired from probably having a stomach bug, not eating for over 24 hours.  That probably had something to do with it.   
I showed in Paris and other matches that I don't really get tired in five-set matches.  Today I definitely did.  It felt like somebody just unplugged me in the middle of the fourth set.  There was no going back there for me.   
 Q.  You hit a wall physically today?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, I think so.  He played well.  No doubt about it.  He's playing well.  The quallies and everything gave him a lot of confidence.  He's won six matches now already.  I actually thought I didn't play that bad.   
I just started to feel very tired.   
 Q.  How frustrating is it, given you looked to be playing very well?  People thought you could make a run in this tournament.  Luck played a part in you going out with the virus.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, but it happens.  This is sports.  You can't really plan things.  Things happen.  I thought after I won the third set, I'm going to get out with a win.  I thought that honestly.   
I started actually off well.  I had breakpoints in the beginning of the fourth.  But things happen.  It's not a secret in our sport.  Unfortunately that's it for me for this year.  But I'll be back.  I'll do the best I can to prepare myself for the hard courts now.   
 Q.  You got a code violation when the line judge came up to the chair umpire to report something.  You seemed surprised by that.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: You just said it.  He reported something he heard.  You can ask him what he heard.   
 Q.  Do you know what he heard?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: You can ask him what he heard.   
 Q.  I don't know him.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: There you go.   
 Q.  Do you think you've progressed on grass at all this year?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, as I said, for me, I thought I played well this week.  I thought I played very well yesterday, the two sets.  I thought I played okay today.   
But, as I said, things happen.  I was unlucky this week with a stomach bug.  Now I'm just going to try to prepare myself the best I can.   
Of course, I didn't have the preparation I had the last few years because I was injured in Paris.  That kind of got me into the grass court season like that.  I didn't really have a lot of time to play on the grass this year.   
 Q.  Fourth set, 2-All, he fought hard.  Do you think that might be a turning point for you?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, sure.  That game can be a turning point.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT