THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2018
Alexander Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your form coming into the tournament?  What are your expectations?  How much are you looking forward it?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I look forward to it.  I think it's Wimbledon.  I think everybody looks forward to it.   
I've gotten a little bit injured in Paris.  Everybody knows that.  I didn't practice a lot before the tournament in Halle, so...  I played it without having any practice.  But now I feel really good.  I mean, the practices I had here, the practices that I had after my loss in Halle were great.  I feel ready to go.   
 Q.  What do you consider the most challenging aspect of playing on grass?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, it's a different surface.  I always said that for me the surface is not a big role.  For me, it's how I play, more about how my game is at the moment.   
I can adjust pretty well to surfaces.  Obviously you got to do a few things different than on clay.  You got to maybe slice a little bit more, you got to come in a little bit more, you got to, you know, try to play lower.  But, you know, that adjustment is made within a few days.  After that, it's more about finding your shots, finding your game.   
 Q.  How does it affect your thinking about your serve, the tactics with the serve?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I mean, my serve is pretty standard.  I try to hit it as hard as I can, so...  There's not many tactics there.  I try to go to the forehand, to the backhand, sometimes to the body.  That's it.   
 Q.  10 years on since the famous 2008 final between Federer and Nadal.  Do you have any memories of watching that match when you were a kid?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, of course I remember it.  That was the day I think Spain became European champion in soccer, Rafa won his first Wimbledon, so...  I remember that.   
It was a great final.  I think they've played a few great finals here.  That and then other ones, other years, it was good as well.  I think 2007 was really good, as well.   
They're the two most historic players that will be remembered in this game.  So I think it's not a big issue that when they play each other it's always very exciting to watch.   
 Q.  Marcelo Melo, the Brazilian player, after Germany went out of the World Cup, he talked to you.  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Yeah, he sent me a stupid minions video vine of Brazilian minions dancing in front of the German minions.  I didn't talk to him three or four days (smiling).   
Brazil has to play now.  They're the favorite to win the tournament.  We'll see how they do.   
After Germany is out, the actual World Cup for me is in 2022.   
 Q.  Different players have different routines before a match.  Is there anything unusual about your superstitions or rituals that you do before a match?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: I'm not superstitious at all.  I don't have anything I have to do before I play.  For me, if I have a great preparation, if I had great practices, I know I'll do well.  This is more important for me than any superstition anybody could have.   
 Q.  Do you listen to music on your way onto the court?  If so, what do you listen to?  
ALEXANDER ZVEREV: Before, I'm listening to anything, random stuff.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT