NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2009
Jordan Schroeder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JORDAN SCHROEDER: No, not really, to be honest with you, anything can happen on draft day. I couldn't be more happy to go to Vancouver, I've heard nothing but great things about the organization, the fans, the city, everything. I'm really happy right now I was chosen by them.  
  
  Q. Were you starting to get nervous at all?   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: I think everyone gets a tendency to be a little nervous. You want to get picked. Now all that's over with and now I'm happy.  
  
  Q. What kind of player would you describe yourself as?   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: I think most guys would see me as a play making type player, you know, being able to distribute the puck to my teammates and setting up goals, but at the same time being able to put the puck in the back of the net.  
  
  Q. Did you talk to the Canucks management?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: Yeah, they came in pretty early and they were the first team I talked to, met at the Combine, had a good interview and everything went well.   
  
  Q. Are you are surprised Minnesota passed on you twice?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: Not really. I think they were looking for defensemen. They wanted some second and third round picks, as well, so I'm happy for Nick Colletti, my teammate. He's a great kid and great player and I could not be happier to go to Vancouver like I said.   
  
  Q. How soon can you make an impact?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: It's definitely my goal to play in the NHL, and you never know, I'm going to work hard this summer and we'll see what happens in the future here.   
  
  Q. What do you like about Vancouver?   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: Oh, it's a beautiful city, first of all. The fans are crazy about hockey and Canada, I love that. There's so much enthusiasm up here.   
 Like I said, I couldn't be more happy to be with Vancouver.   
  
  Q. What part of your game are you going to focus the most on in the off-season?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: Everyone can focus on a lot of things. I think shooting the puck more and playing a better role defensively, definitely can work on those things, but keep getting stronger.   
  
  Q. Playing the games, what do you think --  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: He's a great player, always thought he was one of their top players on Canada last year at the World Juniors, moves the puck very well, is a great leader and teammate and you never know, hopefully we'll be on the line sometime soon.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: I was kind of hesitant about it but at the same time I had a good feeling. I met with them a couple of times and like I said, I got a good vibe off the interviews and everything. And I'm glad it's over with and I'm with Vancouver.   
  
  Q. What's next now? What's the next challenge?   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: Definitely the next challenge is to play in the NHL. This is only a step in the making. It's a dream to play in the NHL for me, so that's my next goal is to make this there.  
  
  Q. Next year?   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: You never know. I've got to sit down and weigh my options out. I'm definitely open for anything and definitely excited for the future.   
  
  Q. Do you know Patrick?   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: Yeah, he's on my team and Taylor, I'm living with them. Got to know them well this year ask they are part of this organization, too, so it's pretty cool.  
  
  Q. What are the first thoughts that went through your mind when you heard your name?   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: A lot of relief, but at the same time, knowing it was Vancouver. I could not be more happy, like I said. Heard nothing but great things about this organization, city and everything, so I'm very excited and looking forward to it.  
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: It was very special, how big of an impact player he was in the NHL, him welcoming you to the team and organization was pretty special and something I'll remember for the rest of my life.  
  
  Q. Excited to go to a Canadian city that loves hockey?   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: They are nuts about hockey out there and especially in Vancouver, and I could not ask for anything better.   
  
  Q. You have been compared to a player like Brian Ginto (ph), would you agree with that?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: No, I totally agree. We have similar styles. I'm not the biggest guy on the ice and I know that. I'm going to use my skills and my speed and those assets to be a hockey player in the NHL.   
  
  Q. At what point in your development do you realize that this day could happen?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: Oh, it was a few years back, I think playing at the national program, making the World Junior team as an under ager. I set my goals high and I try to achieve them and I've achieved one of my goals so far in my career.   
  
  Q. But you were saying you are not their biggest guy, how do you makeup for it?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: I think it's a lot of hockey sense, using my feet, quickness, moving the puck and being a team player.   
  
  Q. Talk about this last year, the scouts looking at you, what kind of pressure are you dealing with?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: It's definitely in the back of your mind. I tried to block it and avoid it as much as possible. I wanted to focus on the game and my teammates and help my team win. I tried not to think about it too much.  
  
  Q. What was it like sitting and waiting with your family?   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: Definitely a little nervous. I'm sure everyone was there today until they got picked. Once you hear your name, it's one of the best feelings in the world and I couldn't be happier.   
  
  Q. How did you get into hockey?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: My parents never really had a background in hockey and in Minnesota in my neighborhood, some of the older guys that I lived around got me into playing street hockey and played on the ponds growing up.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: You know, definitely, we didn't really have a team when I was born, because the North Stars moved, so I wasn't too familiar with the NHL until I was a little older, but definitely lucked out, Wayne Gretzky, a big guy, and I loved watching him and see him move the puck and make plays.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: Definitely my parents for sure, waking up at 5:30 for the early morning practices and lacing up the skates, I owe it all to them. Coaching wise it's John Hynes at the U.S. national program who made me the player that I am today. Without him I probably would not be in my shoes here.  
  
  Q. Is there an American player that you wanted to be like?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: It's hard to say. Growing up watching Zach play for North Dakota and going to New Jersey, he's been a role model for me, the way he plays and everything, so I think he's been a role model for my career.   
  
  Q. Do you like to golf?  
 JORDAN SCHROEDER: Definitely I like to be outdoors, play golf, go fishing, hunt, those kind of things. I'm open for anything to do, anyways.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT