CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 12, 2010
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Charles, round today, you hit every green, 13 or 14 fairways. The golf course set up? Did they give you guys a little bit of a break today?  
 CHARLES WARREN: You know, I think the wind gave us more of a break than anything. Yesterday the wind we had that afternoon time, and hopefully it does that for these afternoon guys today and it balances itself out, but this golf course, the greens are kind of tricky. I had three three-putts today. Those are obviously my three bogeys hitting all the greens.   
 I gotta get ahold of that kind of stuff on the weekend. I really, I'm hitting the ball good enough to win this golf tournament, but we just need to make a few putts, and I feel really good about what lays in front of me.  
  
  Q. How about obviously your status? You're a sensible guy. You can compartmental eyes round to one, but is it something that when you get away from the golf course you're thinking about next year at all?  
 CHARLES WARREN: Well, I mean it's hard not to think about it, but I mean going into this week, I mean really your goal is to be part of the story. If you're part of the story, that means you got a chance to do something.   
 So you know, I'll look forward to hopefully moving up the leaderboard this weekend and giving myself a chance to win. If you sit here and crank out all these scenarios, you'll beat yourself ragged trying to figure out what you need to do to do what. But you know, I just need to keep -- if I keep hitting a lot of fairways and a lot of greens and I make a few more putts, something good is going to happen this week.  
  
  Q. I don't know if you know this, but on the last hole, one of the amateur partners air mailed the green, and I was beating right behind him, and I'm thinking that's going to hit you right between the eyes. You were completely oblivious.   
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah. It's kind of funny you bring that up, because like on our -- I think about on our 12th or 13th hole, I asked John Rollins, I said, do you know of anybody that's ever gotten hit by an amateur in this thing? Ironically I actually thought about it when I said that when he just did that. But it wasn't even close. But a little wake-up call.  
  
  Q. How about game plan for the weekend? Roland's 63 today, so he has got himself way out there. How about your game plan?  
 CHARLES WARREN: I mean if he goes and shoots a pair of 68s on the weekend, I mean he's going to win probably. I mean it's going to be hard to make up that much ground.   
 But he watched a 10-under yesterday and shot 7-under, and I think that probably gave him a little bit of motivation coming into today. So it's going to take a low round to try to get into contention to win this thing, but on the other side of the coin, you know, he goes and shoots 1 or 2-over tomorrow, then we got a new ball game, so I think that's the key is just going out and shooting a low round tomorrow and having a realistic chance on Sunday to win.  
  
  Q. Charles, you had a good weekend at the Frys, a good week. Good luck this weekend.   
 CHARLES WARREN: Thanks a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT