TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2007
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART MOORE:  Charles Warren, thanks for spending a few moments here with us in the interview room at the Turning Stone Resort Championship.  Great round of 68 out there today in some windy conditions.  You hit 16 of 18 greens, obviously the wind didn't bother your iron game too much. 
 CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, didn't quite drive it as well as I think I did the first two days.  But all in all, it was a good day.  The winds obviously made it a lot more challenging than the first couple days.  Hit some good shots, gave myself some chances.  I didn't really hit as many quality putts as I'd like to, so I'm going to go work on my speed a little bit on the greens.  All in all, very pleased in the wind today and 4-under was a good score. 
 STEWART MOORE:  At the Reno-Tahoe Open, Steve had a five-shot lead going into the final round; tomorrow he has a four-shot lead.  What's it going to take to catch him when he's playing this well? 
 CHARLES WARREN:  It's going to take me playing the front nine a lot better than I have the past two days, that's for sure. 
 I think I played it 1-under both days, and I think for me to give myself a chance against him, I'm going to have to get off to a good start. 
 I'm just going to keep playing the golf course the same way I'm playing it.  I made a long putt on 1 today which was nice.  And made a stupid bogey on No. 5; other than that, I played solidly. 
 The key to this golf course is obviously playing the par 5s.  Everybody is going to play the par 5s under par, maybe 2-, 3-, 4-under; Bill Haas played him 5-under the first day when I played with him. 
 You've got to play those well, and you've got to throw in a few here and there. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Looking at your card, you played them 10-under for the week with a bogey. 
 CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, the one on 5 today peeved me because it was playing downwind, and it was a driver, and 5-, 6-, 7-iron even almost if you hit a good drive.  I hit in the right bunker and ended up -- I had a wedge from a perfect yardage and I hit a bad wedge shot.  It's like everything I did; I gave myself a chance to make a good score and I ended up missing a 3-footer for par.  So, just one of those things. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Maybe briefly just go through your birdies today and we'll turn it over to questions. 
 CHARLES WARREN:  I hit a bad drive on 1 to the right.  Hit a 9-iron through the wind way left and long, I just read 55 feet, and made it.  So that's obviously a good way to start the day. 
 Like I said, the bogey on 5, hit a great chip down to three feet and missed it. 
 You know, gave myself lots of chances today on the greens.  And on 8 just hit it in the bunker, hit a great bunker shot on 8 from being short-sided on the right to about three feet and made that. 
 Birdied 12.  Just made a great up-and-down from left of the green there.  That was good. 
 And then that's kind of been my key this week is just scoring around the greens well, and on the par 5s if I missed the green just a little bit, I seemed to capitalize on it. 
 13, 14 and 15 were playing really hard.  Not only into the wind, but kind of crosswind.  Hit a 6-iron in there about nine feet on 13 and made that.  That was kind of the moment of getting over the hump because I wanted to play those three holes hard because I knew that was my chance to make up some ground.  Ended up making up not that much ground. 
 Birdied 18, hit driver and I've iron on 18, landed it literally on the spot where I wanted to land it.  I landed it three paces short of the green on line, and didn't hop up, but a good birdie there.  So I'm very happy to end the day on a good note. 

 Q.  How do you go about tomorrow?  Are you going to just sort of grind away out there, or are you going to pay attention -- are you in the last pairing? 
 CHARLES WARREN:  I think I'm second to last. 

 Q.  So will you leaderboard watch? 
 CHARLES WARREN:  You know, I like to -- not early.  I like to get through five or six holes and just try to get the pedal down and give myself chances to make birdies. 
 You know, I might glance at it.  I like to look at it; I do.  I like to see how good guys are playing, because if they are playing good, it encourages me that the golf course is being receptive, and people are making birdies; so I might as well do it.  If for some reason Steve got off to a rough start, it would be nice to know because it would encourage me that I was closer to the lead than I was to start the day. 
 Either way, it pushes me to play well, so you know, I probably won't look at it before the end of the front nine.  But like I said I need to get off to a good start tomorrow because Steve's not -- this golf course, I think the wind is going to die back down.  And this golf course, if you're playing good, you're going to shoot something under par, most likely.  Because the fairways are generous and if you hit the ball in the fairways, you're going to have lots of chances for birdie. 

 Q.  So you have to go low, is what you're saying. 
 CHARLES WARREN:  To catch him, what am I, four back, five back?  It's going to take at least 64 to catch him or 65, I've got to think, just guessing. 

 Q.  Do you think there's a 63 or 62 out there? 
 CHARLES WARREN:  Absolutely.  I mean, absolutely.  I mean, I shot -- yesterday, shooting 6-under on the back going to the front, I was thinking real low.  Because there have been low scores on each side, so it's just a matter of putting two of them together. 
 But that's going to be the key for tomorrow is just getting off to a good start. 

 Q.  How does the mentality change playing in the wind? 
 CHARLES WARREN:  You know, you have to be a lot more patient, you can't be as precise with your iron shots.  You really can't -- you know, anything outside of about 7-iron, you just have to kind of take what the golf course will give you and you have to play to the fat sides.  Because a minor miss-hit is accentuated greatly in the wind; and on a golf course like this where the greens have a lot of carries and undulations; you don't want to be short-sided, you have to be a little more cautious. 
 Tomorrow, after a day like today if the wind blows and the wind didn't blow you'll see a lot of low scores because that mentality will totally reverse and everybody is just going to be firing for everything. 
 STEWART MOORE:  We got a lot of comments this week from the players about the golf course and this tournament having made quite an impression its first year; is that something you agree with? 
 CHARLES WARREN:  It's unbelievable.  Other than Charlotte at the Wachovia, I can't think of an event that's stepped in and been such a huge impact amongst the players, as far as I mean, accommodations, this whole place is incredible.  They helicoptered myself and some guys up to go salmon fishing on Wednesday.  They have just really rolled out the red carpet for us.  The golf course is perfect.  It's one of those events that once the word gets out it's just going to be growing, exponentially every year I think.  Because there's nothing that this event doesn't have that other ones offer, that's for sure, including a big purse.  (Laughter). 
 STEWART MOORE:  One final thing.  Is that orange for your Clemson Tigers? 
 CHARLES WARREN:  Solid orange.  Clemson marker, you have to wear orange on Saturday, game days.  But I figured now that we started this orange campaign, I have to wear it on game days.  
 Q.  Who did Clemson play? 
 CHARLES WARREN:  Clemson played N.C. State, 42-20.  I was getting updates from Billy Ray Brown. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT