TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2007
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Charles, what a start today.  6 under par through your first six holes.  I guess you knew it was going to be something special?   
 CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, it was a dream start.  Getting off to a start like that, birdying 10, making a putt off the green on 11.  And making it from 115 or 20 yards on 12, that was just a dream start.   
 I just tried to keep it down, couldn't quite keep the pace up on my second nine.  But all in all, I felt like I played really solid today.   
 DOUG MILNE:  30 on your front nine, which was the back side here.  You seemed to be so comfortable all the time.  You never show a lot of emotion on the golf course.  But everybody looks comfortable here this week.   
 CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, it's just one of those places that it's a beautiful place.  Turning Stone is rolling out the red carpet for us.  And there is just really no reason not to play relaxed and have fun out here, obviously.   
 I'm fortunate I'm not in the position where I'm playing to keep my card.  I'm not around 125.  But, you know, with a lot to play for, you know, the rest of the Fall Series.  There's stuff to play for, but I'm a little at an advantage because I'm not having to deal with some of the numbers that other guys are.   
 DOUG MILNE:  I mentioned to you after your round that my colleague John Maginnes, a PGA Tour player, said pound-for-pound you're one of the longest drivers out here.  And you said John Maginnes owes me.   
 CHARLES WARREN:  Johnny Mags is going to kill me for telling this story.   
 But we were in Scranton one year playing together.  And he had already gotten to the tee, and I was straggling there up a little late at the 10th tee box, and Scranton's really small.   
 And I was walking up, he was going through his motions or working on set-up or something.  And next thing I know, he takes a swing, and full swing on the follow through clips me in the head with the shaft.   
 It was a glancing blow, thank goodness.  But if it had been the driver head, we would have packed it in.  I would have been done for a while.   
 DOUG MILNE:  That's a good story with John Maginnes.  I know he didn't mean to hit you because he certainly speaks well of you.  But that's funny.  Continue the fine play and congratulations on the first round.   
 CHARLES WARREN:  Thanks for everything.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT