AT&T NATIONAL
July 5, 2007
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just talk about your round and what was going right for you out there. 
 CHARLES WARREN:  After the start, I wasn't really sure what was going to go right.  I started off making 6 on 10; I tripled it.  Hit it in the back bunker, had an awful lie on the downslope and just thinned it in the water and made 6. 
 After that I played really well.  Gave myself chances for birdies.  The times I missed the fairway I got pretty decent breaks and could put the ball on the green, which is rare.  I had three shots where I put the ball on the green, or just putting for birdie that, you know, I got very good breaks. 
 Other than that, I hit the ball well and gave myself chances for birdies.  But I did miss a bunch of birdie putts.  I'm sure everybody could have shot lower.  But if you'd told me I was going to shoot 2-over after I was 3-over through 1, I'd have said that would be pretty good. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the course, how it's been playing? 
 CHARLES WARREN:  The course is great.  Like I said the rough is really tough.  Just a matter of what kind of lies you get in the rough.  The course is playing very difficult.  The only thing that's kind of keeping it manageable is that the greens are kind of soft.  But other than that, you have to drive the ball in the fairway.  That is the premiere thing here. 
 You know, we're very fortunate to get to play this golf course this week.  This is a treat.  This is definitely a change from what we are used to, an ordinary PGA TOUR event type of venue.  But it's great, it is, and I think if I keep hitting it like I am in the next three days, I'll be okay. 

 Q.  Anything in particular that you're looking forward to over the weekend? 
 CHARLES WARREN:  Not really.  Just playing this golf course.  This is a treat to get to play here. 
 So, you know, I'm looking forward to just going and hopefully keep doing what I'm doing and getting in the mix on Sunday.  That's the idea, at least. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT