TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2007
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHARLES WARREN:  If you put the ball in the fairway, it's a birdie hole; if you don't, you're probably going to make bogey.   
    
  Q.  You have got to feel good about where you are going into the weekend, two 67s and you're right there.   
 CHARLES WARREN: I felt I played very solidly the last two days and stuck to my game plan on the golf course and it panned out pretty well.  I really feel my best rounds are ahead of me.  I do feel I have a low round in me.   
  
  Q.  What's working well for you right now?  What's got you going?   
 CHARLES WARREN:  Everybody says it's putting.  My ball-striking is always good enough to compete out here.  It's my putting, I have to putt well to have a chance to win out here.  I feel comfortable this week.  I feel like I'm rolling the ball where I'm looking, and I feel like I've got the speed down.  Hopefully this weekend I can get a few to fall.   
  
  Q.  Just a general statement on your round today, how it was today.   
 CHARLES WARREN:  I played well, put the ball in the fairway and on the greens and gave myself a lot of chances at birdies.  It was kind of one of those rounds it was kind of just plodding along, wasn't doing a whole lot until 12, 13, and 14, and I knew those three holes were for the entire round.  Playing those three holes 4-under was definitely the jump start.  You never want to finish with a bogey, but with the conditions like this and everything and the wait, it was nice to get in the house playing those last three at even par.   
  
  Q.  How about the wind?  What kind of a factor was that today?   
 CHARLES WARREN:  It was brutal, it really was.  You have to take advantage of the downwind holes, so even the downwind holes it's hard to keep the ball on the green where you want it to.  It's supposed to be a lot of the same this weekend.  I'm looking forward to it.  I would rather the scores be -- I love it when 2 or 3 under is a good round.  I'm looking forward to the weekend if it does what it's supposed to do.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT