FUNAI CLASSIC AT THE WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 19, 2006
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Charles, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  Great start to the week, several birdies out there, kind of ended on a bad note but still a wonderful round.  Why don't you just talk about what you did well out there, and seems like the conditions are perfect.
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, they definitely are.  I think that definitely the Palm Course is there for the taking.  You can shoot a really, really low score.  I saw Justin Rose was 10 under through 12.  There is definitely a 59 out there.  If you can put the ball in the right spot and make a few putts you can have stretches of four, five, six birdies for sure, and the par 5s are all reachable.

After having a month off, I didn't really know what to expect today, so kind of I was a little bit anxious to see kind of where my ball striking was, but it was nice to go out there and hit a few shots, make a few birdies early, get in the mix.

Bill Haas and I had a great time playing together today.  I think I made a par putt, looking at my score card, I made a long par putt on 13, and I told Bill that's the most pressure I felt because neither one of us had made a bogey at that point, and it turns out I missed the last putt of the day for us to make a bogey.  I was hoping we could make it through the day without making a bogey.  One of those things.

If you would have told me I could shoot 6 under the first day, considering I didn't have good practice rounds the last two days, I would have been happy with it for sure.
Q.  So I guess it's a nice course to sort of dive back into the deep end of the Tour pool to get your wheels lubed up and the birdies flowing, huh?
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, definitely.  I think when I saw my draw, I definitely was very happy to be playing that golf course.  To be second off on the Palm Course, that's opening up for as good of a start as you can possibly have.  I think    like I said, you still have got to go out there and hit a few golf shots because there's plenty of hazards and plenty of stuff where you can make a bogey or double bogey pretty quick, but I was very fortunate today.  I kept the ball where I needed to.

I hit a horrible drive on 1, got a great break, hit a 6 iron into the green for my third shot to make birdie there, which was big.  I pulled it left up against a tree, had to punch out into the fairway, and from there it was kind of    I hit good shots, I hit them on the greens.  Other than 18, I really didn't have any other chances where I really had to scramble for par.

You know, I think the key to that golf course is putting the ball in the fairway on the par 5s, and I did that at least a couple times and made that birdie on 1.  I think that's the key.
Q.  You just talked about the great draw.  Now do you have to change your mindset going to Mag tomorrow, saying hey, I'm probably not going to do that again?
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, I just think the way you kind of separate it is you go eat lunch and then you hit a lot of long irons because you're hitting more 4 , 5  and 6 irons than you do on the Palm Course.  I don't think the mentality really changes.

As far as around the greens, the greens are perfect on both golf courses.  They really are in great shape and rolling really, really well.

You know, I think that at the end of the day, you've just kind of got to play the golf course for what it's worth.  I think it's good.  I like playing the Palm first because I like playing the Magnolia three days in a row so you can kind of separate today from    kind of like lobbying for position in NASCAR; now that I've got my position, now I can play the golf course and get in a rhythm on that golf course.  I think that's a good thing.
Q.  It's a double good draw?
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, I think it's good.  There's going to be plenty of guys who come in here after shooting 67 or 66 on the Mag course that think they've got a good draw, and if they do that then they do have the good draw, there's no doubt about it.
Q.  Following up on that, we were talking about this in the elevator, but the guy that shoots the low score on the Mag may be realistically, using your NASCAR metaphor, sort of has the unofficial pole position despite what the scoring summary may say?
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, I definitely would think so.  I think the biggest thing is on the Mag course is the fact that the par 5s    the four par 5s on both those golf courses are really, really different.  If you hit the ball in the fairway    I'm hitting 4  or 5 irons into most of them.  I had to hit a provisional on 1 and my provisional was four feet from my pitch out.  Unless you catch the wind right on some of them you can't get to some of them and then the other ones you're hitting 3 wood or 2 iron into.

That golf course is really more of a test of your longer driving and longer irons than the Palm Course.  Having said that, there's going to be plenty of guys who shoot 4 , 5  and 6 under on that golf course.
Q.  Would a 59 on the Palm Course count?
CHARLES WARREN:  Of course it would count, yeah.
Q.  Would it
CHARLES WARREN:  It's a PGA TOUR event.  Our rules officials have set these golf courses up as hard as we can set them up.  To my knowledge no one has ever done it here.
Q.  61.
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, definitely.  It definitely counts.  I mean, if you look at the other 59s, Palm Course is no easier than the course than Duval shot 59 at the Hope on.  I didn't play that year so I don't really know, but I think if you look at all the tournaments where 59 has been shot, most of them were in Vegas, most of them on not the A course but one of the other courses.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT