CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
September 30, 2005
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(From taped interview.)
Q.  As they say in the world of professional golf, it is very difficult to back up a fantastic round with another solid round.  10 under yesterday, 2 over today.  Your explanation of why that happened?
CHARLES WARREN:  You know, it's just one of those things.  When you shoot a round like that, it seems like every club you pull is the right one and the yardage seems to fall into place, the ball just goes where you want it to every time.

Today I came out like I wanted to.  I told my caddie my goal was to shoot 3 under on the front, 3 under on the back.  I came out and did it on the front.  3 under on the front was the start I was looking for.

I made a couple bad decisions and I made a couple bad plays.  My iron play was just loose on the back.  That's going to add up to a bad score.  If you get your ball striking going, you can shoot a low round her.  Conversely, if you don't, you can get into a bad spot.  That's what I did on the Back 9.

It's one of those things.  I'm in a good position to shoot two good rounds this weekend and have a chance to win this tournament.
Q.  Is the decision making process tougher when you're playing really well?  You got to 13 under par.  Does every decision get magnified now?
CHARLES WARREN:  Not really.  You have to revert to what I was doing yesterday, get out of your own way.  It's almost like you're watching yourself.  It's like you're processing the information.  We've done this all for long enough to where you just kind of process it, hit the shot.  You just process everything and hopefully it will add up to a good score.

Today, that just didn't seem to be the case.
Q.  A little rough out there today?
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah.  Well, half good, half bad.  I wanted to shoot 3 under on the front, 3 under on the back.  That would have put me in a good position.  I got half of it right.  I think I had a little more than the wheels fall off; I think the whole train fell off of the tracks.  That's all right.

I played 27 really good holes this week.  I'm going to draw on that and go work on tightening my irons up.  This weekend if I shoot two good scores, I'll have a chance to win on Sunday.
Q.  That's the game plan for tomorrow then?
CHARLES WARREN:  Absolutely.  I'm still playing well.  It's just like in two hours I dropped it back there somewhere.  You know, it's just a matter of coming out and it's just one of those things.  On the Back 9, my irons weren't right, the clubs I was pulling weren't the right clubs.  2 iron and 5 iron on the two par 5s.  Made par.  That's the difference.  It seems like the difference between a round like 62 and 74 is just monumental, but it's really not.  It's just a matter of a few things here and there, not scoring as well.  That was the difference today.

So I'm looking forward to coming out tomorrow.  I got my bad nine holes out of the way and hopefully put together two good scores.
Q.  After your great round yesterday, what were you thinking when you teed off this morning?
CHARLES WARREN:  Talking to my teacher, my sports psychologist, I came out with the mindset that I wanted to come out like this was Thursday, come out with new goals.  Obviously, your first inclination is to come out here and say, God, 6 under at this point yesterday, now I'm 1 under or even.  That would be easy to do.

But I came out today with two concise goals:  3 under on the front, 3 under on the back.  I got one of them.  Just on the back, the clubs    the ball wasn't going where I wanted it to.  It adds up to a bad score.  That's the case.

Like I said, I'm still playing well.  I'm looking forward to the weekend.
Q.  Your confidence is still good?
CHARLES WARREN:  Absolutely.  I feel like I'm still putting well.  I'd be more concerned if I felt my putting was sliding away a little bit more than my ball striking.  I feel like I can go to the range, within an hour I can tighten my ball striking up.  I was still hitting putts.  Even the last one on the last hole, exactly where I wanted to hit it.  The difference between yesterday and today, I just misread it a little bit and it didn't break to the right.
Q.  Bottom line, you're still in good shape?
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, absolutely.  You know, that's the way I'm looking at it.  If you'd have told me at the beginning of the week I'd be 8 under, top 10, whatever, going into the weekend...  Now I'm in a position where I can go play aggressive on the weekend.  I'm looking forward to that.  I'm looking forward to getting back to that mindset I had yesterday.

It's easy to come out here when you hit a few loose shots like I did the first few holes on the back, start wondering if you're pulling the right clubs, being indecisive.  That kind of compounds itself.

I'm looking forward to the weekend for sure.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT