CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
September 29, 2005
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  We'd like to thank Charles Warren for joining us for a few minutes in the media center of the Chrysler Classic in Greensboro.  What a round today, 10 birdies, 62, ties a course record.  The first time we've had that score since they did the redesign.  Between you and D.J. Trahan, you're going to make it tough on those Clemson folks on Saturday afternoon deciding whether to come here or go to that football game.
CHARLES WARREN:  That's right, that's right.  Yeah, if it had been a college tournament, because I saw Jonathan was 4 under, Lucas shot 2, if we had a college tournament today, we'd be in business.  Get that ACC flavor up here we're used to.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Talk about your day.
CHARLES WARREN:  You know, it was one of those    I haven't ever had a round like that.  That's as close to a perfect round of golf as I've ever played.  It was one of those days to where my ball striking, I was hitting the ball exactly where I wanted to, the right distance.  Every putt I got over, I felt I was going to make.  I made some long putts, but I left a few short in the jaws.

I'm not going to sit here and tell you I could have shot 59, but if I was going ever going to shoot 59, today would have been the chance for sure.  It's fun.  My Thursday scoring average has not been very good this year.  It was nice to get off to a good start, which I haven't done at all this summer really.

So, you know, I'm just looking forward to going out tomorrow with some of the same thoughts, seeing how that progresses and seeing what it adds up to, then going this weekend.  Most of the weekends that I've played on, I've taken advantage of, especially on Sunday.  So I'm looking forward to this weekend.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  I'm sure had you a lot of friends and family, pretty close to home.  Talk about that a little bit.
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, it's nice just being able to drive up just one road up here.  I live right up 85 in Greenville.  It's nice to drive up here and have friends and family.  Obviously a lot of people from Clemson are going to be here today and probably definitely tomorrow, maybe Saturday as well.  Then Sunday after the game, maybe some of them will stick around.

You know, it's nice, it really is.  I enjoy playing around here.  It's obviously familiar.  I love this area.  My first professional event was the Nationwide event here at Sedgefield in '98.  I've got a little bit of a connection to Greensboro.

But, yeah, it's just nice to see familiar faces, get out there.  Today was just one of those days where everything kind of went my way.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Looking at your results, seemed like this round might have come out of nowhere.  Did you feel like you were getting better in the last few weeks?
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, it would look like that.  But, you know, I played very poorly June and July.  But since August, the last month and a half, I've been telling my caddie I feel like I'm so close to playing good.  It's just frustrating because, you know, like last week, I get out and birdie the 1st hole and shoot 40 on the Front 9 at San Antonio.  I get a few bad breaks, make a couple doubles.  The next thing you know, you got it going the wrong way.

I've really been    it's just been kind of one of those things to where I've been trying to analyze, is it something in my preparation Tuesday and Wednesday before Thursday?  Do I not come out here with the right mindset on Thursday morning or Thursday afternoon to play?

I didn't have an answer, but I knew I was close to playing well because my ball striking, I've been seeing shots the last month and a half that I didn't see most of the other parts of the summer.  I knew I was close.  Mike Taylor, my putting instructor from Sea Island, Georgia, and I worked on something on the putting green that completely turned my whole mindset around on the greens.  That was the whole key to today.  I just opened up my body and my stance and it seemed to free everything up.  It was just one of those things, something little like that makes a huge difference.  I was just waiting for something like that to kind of go my way.

I look forward to getting out there tomorrow and seeing how it does.  Yes, it is out of nowhere, but I've seen progression lately, for sure.
Q.  You said Mike helped you.  Was he here, yesterday?
CHARLES WARREN:  Yeah, he was up here, yeah.
Q.  Is there a particular reason why he came up here yesterday?
CHARLES WARREN:  No.  He comes    he came to Harbor Town, Atlanta, a couple of the Florida events.  Obviously, this is a close one.  He comes to some of the close ones.  He works with Cameron Beckman, myself, and a couple other guys he kind of messes around with, too.  My swing instructor, Todd Anderson, from Sea Island, as well, was up, too.  It's just logistically easy for them to come to the close ones.  San Antonio, here, Vegas.  Obviously, this is a lot easier than going to either one of those other two.
Q.  You had such a fast start to your season.  You mentioned the summer not being good.  How do you look at your year overall?
CHARLES WARREN:  You know, if the season was to end yesterday, you know, I would look at it as probably the most inconsistent year of my career.  My tendency has been to play poorly through about March, even in college, and she (Joan vT Alexander) can relate to that because she was at NC State, I played poorly through the middle of March, then about ACC tournament time, April, I just    something clicked.  I always played good there through the summer, into the fall.  I don't know what it was.  I did it professionally for the first four or five years.  I never played well, then I started playing well May or June.

Well, my instructor and I last year, after I knew I locked up my card on the Nationwide Tour, he said, "We need to get things moving like in August, start working on your swing, get things to where you want it to be, because when you go in January," which is earlier than I ever would have played before, when you go in January, "you need to be ready to go and get off to a hot start.  Being out of our category, the reshuffle is just huge.  You got to play early in the year.  Your schedule changes dramatically.

Having said that, I worked hard in the off season.  I put a lot of pressure on myself to go out with a good mindset on the West Coast.  I did.  I played well, which was uncharacteristic.  I think part of me was    I got to a point really after Atlanta where I played well enough to where I was    I locked up my card and obviously had other goals, but there was a lot I wanted to accomplish.  I hadn't locked it up at that point, but I was well on my way.

But, you know, I don't know what it is.  Ever since the end of May, first of June, it's just been really inconsistent.  I hit it poorly for a few weeks, then I would putt poorly.  It was just one of those things.  It's kind of funny, now that I'm sitting here talking about it, my ball striking had been coming around the last few weeks.  Mike Taylor said, "It's funny how your ball striking came around, your putting doesn't look good."

We worked for an hour and a half yesterday, something clicked.  Finally it feels like a complete package.  You can win golf tournaments and not have everything clicking.  I mean, I've done that in the past.  But today was one of those days to where I usually don't ever have it clicking like that, and everything rounded out into form.  It added up to the best round in my career.
Q.  How many putts?
CHARLES WARREN:  28.
Q.  When you left the range, did you feel like it might be one of those days at all?
CHARLES WARREN:  You know, I can sit here and say that.  But I felt like that    for the last three weeks, I felt like that.  That's what's been really frustrating, because I knew this was coming.  I didn't know this was coming, but I knew something good was coming, you know, but I have been hitting it good.

Todd Anderson, my swing instructor from Sea Island, and I worked.  Yesterday I spent two hours with him and two hours with Mike.  Just wanted to get one thought apiece on my putting and my swing.  I did.  We reduced it to one little thing both times.  You can't come out here with three or four thoughts, swing thoughts, changing your ball position with your putting, three or four different things there.  You've got no chance.

I just came out, you know, with those two thoughts today.  It just got to feeling really comfortable.  Every putt I got over, every shot I hit was exactly where I was looking, and every putt I hit, other than maybe one, was dead on line.  But, you know, it's just one of those days.

I guess really the key shot of the round, after shooting 6 on the front, then birdie ing 2, was 3.  I hit it in the middle of the green, I left my first putt like eight feet short.  At 7 under, at that point you want to keep the momentum going.  I made that putt.  I really felt like that was the one that kind of kept it going, kept me kind of focused on shooting a really low round.

Like I said, other than that putt, I mean, it was just one of those days to where everything kind of clicked.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Can we go through your round.  You started on 10.
CHARLES WARREN:  Starting on 10.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Birdie on 11, par 5.
CHARLES WARREN:  I'll be with y'all in two seconds, as soon as my mind starts working again.  Hang on.  10, 11.

11, hit a good drive there.  Hit a 9 iron about 12 feet right of the hole.  It had a sliding putt, sliding to the right, kind of downhill.  I put a really good roll on it, it went right in the middle.  That was kind of the putt.

10, I hit it in the fringe, just kind of putted it down there, 2 putted.  That was kind of the putt, I was like, "Yeah, this feels good.  This feels really good."

12, the par 3, I hit a 7 iron about probably, I'm just guessing, SHOT Link is going to show you how dumb we really are, but I'm going to guess 20 to 25 feet of the hole.

SHOT Link technology, right there, wow.

23 feet, no inches right of the hole apparently.  Made a long one there.  Made a good, aggressive stroke on that.  It was uphill.  The long putts I made today, it seemed like they were all straight uphill.  Just looked like they have a backboard almost to where all you got to do is hit it on the right line, get it there, it's going to go in.

13, the par 5, hit a good 3 wood.  Actually hit it through the fairway in the first cut, had a funky lie, really funky lie.  Kind of first cut, kind of ball above the feet, kind of downhill lie.  Had 257 something to the hole, hit a 2 iron short of the green.  Knew you didn't want to be long or left.  I hit a 2 iron in front of the green.  Hit a good little chip right behind the hole five or six feet, made that.  That's the start I've been looking for all year, was something like that.  At that point I knew, "All right, everything feels comfortable.  Let's go and swing and play golf."

Then on 15, the par 5, hit a really good drive there, hit a 2 iron in there from 261 just past the hole to the right.  That was one of those things to where, you know, our rules officials have done a great job of setting up our golf courses on Thursday.  They don't use their Sunday locations, but a lot of their second hardest ones.  That was a good example of somewhere where you could sit there and try to hit it at the hole.  If you hit it at the hole or left of it, didn't get it there, you were not going to make birdie.  Good 2 iron, right of the hole, putted it close to a couple feet, made birdie there.

Next hole, 16, probably the hardest golf hole we play this week.  If you hit it in the fairway there, that's pretty huge.  I did that.  Had 190 in.  I couldn't decide how far I wanted to hit it.  I was indecisive with my clubs there.  I hit kind of a wipeout to the right, the ball ran to the back of the green.  It says 50 feet.  It felt like 150.  You know, at that point I'm I guess 4 under.  It was breaking hard right to left.  I just hit it.  Six feet out, I knew it was going in.  It was just like, "Whoa, something's going on here.  Something good's about to happen."  That goes in.  I'm thinking, "Wow, I've hit the worst shot I hit all day and still made birdie."  I'm thinking if I can tighten up my ball striking, something good is really going to happen.

17, 4 iron, right of the hole 20 feet.  Kind of shook that one in.  Bounced around, ended up bouncing in the right side of the hole.  At that point I'm thinking, 6 under, I never shot 29 in competition.  We do think about it.  I wanted to shoot 29.

Hit a really good drive on 18 all the way down the hill.  Had 115 yards into the wind, which is a horrible yardage for me.  My sand wedge goes about 112, 113 max, from the left.  All I wanted to do was not hit sand wedge, watch it spin off the front of the green.  Easy pitching wedge, hit it long 30, 35 feet, 2 putted that.

At that point I'm thinking, you got two par 5's on the front that are reachable.  You have a couple other short par 4s.  Once again, tighten my ball striking up.  I've made a mile of putts, but it could have been a lot easier than that because my iron play really wasn't that sharp on that side for sure, especially my wedge game.

Go to 1.  It's a good example.  Hit 3 wood off the tee, have 103 yards in.  Hit it 22 feet.  The average out here from 103 yards is probably inside of 12 feet.  That's a good example of that one.

5, as well.  You know, it says 13 feet.  It seemed like a lot longer than that.  My wedges inside 115 yards, I just didn't think were that crisp, that controlled today.  Hit it 20 feet there, make par.  That was    I wanted to come out and give myself good chances.  I really had a good opportunity there and didn't do it.

2, par 5, hit a great drive, great 4 iron.  Actually got up top within 12 feet of the hole and stayed there for a second it looked like then rolled all the way back down.  Made a good 2 putt.  Pulled the first putt to the left five feet, made a good 5 footer.  Spike marks were showing up a lot this afternoon.  Those five footers were not as stress free as they normally would be.  You had to be kind of aggressive on the greens.

3, hit a good 3 wood.  Like I told you before, hit it short 40 feet or so, left it eight feet short with my putt for par.  Made that.  That was kind of the key to keeping the round going.

4, hit a 6 iron in there just left of the hole 30 feet.  At that point I'm just thinking, Let's just give ourselves a few more chances, make a couple birdies coming in.  That one goes in.  That's when I'm thinking, "Whoa."  I've now made 2 putts over 30 feet which is uncharacteristic for me.  I make that.  That slides in the right side, around the hole and in the back door.  Make birdie there.

Next hole, 3 wood off the tee.  87 yards, comfortable wedge.  Hit it behind the hole.  Leave it in the wrong spot.  Now I'm putting downhill.  Hit a good putt.  It just kind of bounced off line.

6, hit a really good drive there.  I drove the ball really well today, which is how I normally play golf.  I'm comfortable when I drive the ball well.  I was hitting it exactly where I wanted to.  My flight was really nice today.  Hit a good drive there.

Hit an 8 iron in there and missed it right of the hole 18 feet or so.  That was one of those putts looking straight up at it, I really knew that that was a good putt to make.  I left it dead short in the jaws a couple feet, make par there.

7, birdied 7.  Actually pulled my driver a little bit, but it went way down there, right up against the first cut.  Had like 84 yards, 80 to 85 yards, in there.  Hit an L wedge kind of behind the hole about 15 feet and made that.  At that point I'm just saying, "Get out of your own way.  Let's not even start thinking at this point.  Just do what you're doing, focus, use your keys and see what happens."

Next hole, par 3, knew I couldn't miss it left or long.  Hit it right in the middle of the green, 2 putted there.

9, hit a great drive, had 280 in.  Hit 3 wood exactly where I wanted to.  There was a pine tree at the clubhouse I was hitting to.  Hit it right there, hole high.  Left that one a foot short right in the jaws.  I'm not going to sit here and complain about that one not going in.  But I kind of wish I had gotten it there to see if it at least had a chance.

Like I said, as close to a perfect round of golf as I've ever played.
Q.  This golf tournament has been a breakthrough tournament for a lot of guys over the years.  Do you feel like, as you look around, this golf tournament is void of the superstars this week, any thought towards that as you entered the competition, this might be a good time to play well?
CHARLES WARREN:  You know, not really.  It's easy for you guys to sit here and say this.  Adam Scott, Sergio, half The Presidents Cup's International team is here getting ready for next week.  The marquee guys you're talking about aren't here.

If you come out here and you win a golf tournament, I don't care if it's Phoenix or Harbor Town or the BC Open, anything, you've played incredible golf.  You can even say that about the Nationwide Tour now, too.

I look at this event, where I am on the Money List, I'm kind of in no man's land.  I want to finish in the top 70.  Top 40 would be a dream come true.  Growing up 80 miles from Augusta, I'd love to play there.  I'm going to have to give myself chances to win golf tournaments   if not win, finish second   to do either one of those.

I look at it, the golf course sets up well for me.  I think Davis has done an awesome job with this golf course.  I liked it a lot before, but I think he's done a good job of keeping it up to modern standards.  Where we're putting the golf ball now is different than 30, 40 years ago.  I look at it as a good opportunity to go out and play well this weekend.  There are some marquee guys there.  I guarantee you they're going to be in Saturday and Sunday.  They don't get in the positions they're in without playing well, without giving themselves chances.
Q.  Looking at tomorrow, you kind of curious to see if (indiscernible) your key, new keys?
CHARLES WARREN:  No, I won't.  Obviously, I could get out here and things could look a little different.  I'll just come out, go through my normal routine.  The things that I've been working on with my ball striking have been the same all year.  Well, the same the last two or three months, for sure, the exact keys.  But my putting thing is just opening up my body and my stance.  It's not like it's something that's really technical.  I could teach any of y'all to do it.  It's not like it's rocket science.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Charles.
CHARLES WARREN:  Thanks, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT