TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2010
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Charles, tied the course record here this morning. Do you want to talk a little bit about the round?  
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah, ironically my caddy and I were just talking about how it's probably the worst ball-striking day I've had in a month. It was crazy. I've been driving the ball so poorly, and it was nice to hit the ball in the rough and make some putts.   
 Today's one of the better putting days that I've had, and just felt good on the putting greens before the round. And my pace was good today, made a couple long ones. It's definitely out there, but the key is obviously making putts. You can't shoot 9-under unless you're making putts.  
  
  Q. And did you do anything different with your putting?  
 CHARLES WARREN: Not really, no. Just really been trying to free it up and just work on my pace, and I think that's been the key for me is just working on my pace and not working on my stroke so much.   
 Like I said, felt really good today, and it's felt good for a couple weeks. I feel like I'm building the right way, so I'm excited about tomorrow and the rest of the year.  
  
  Q. Sure. And who knows what the wind's going to do.   
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Right now you're one ahead and the leader hasn't teed off yet. What's your thoughts going into the rest of the day and tomorrow?  
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah. You know, there's going to be low scores this afternoon. The greens are really soft, they're really receptive, and I really envision several guys shooting 5 or 6-under. Hopefully nobody runs away hot, but you know, I'm for sure in a lot better position than I was this morning.  
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about your season this year.   
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah. You know, I really feel like I've fundamentally got my game probably in the best shape I've been in. But I've just played really poorly. I've scored poorly. And the chances -- I had a decent chance at the beginning of the year in Cancun and played bad on Sunday. And other than that it's just been kind of few and far between, but I feel like I've done a good job the last three weeks of getting out of my own way and not really worrying about results and just enjoying being out here.  
 You know, when it gets to the point where it's wearing on you physically and emotionally, then you're putting too much pressure on it. And that's unfortunately probably where I got to in the beginning of the summer.  
  
  Q. What happened today that made it better?  
 CHARLES WARREN: Putting obviously. I mean you don't shoot 63 without making putts.   
 But it was good. I think one stretch of holes really got it. I made a good probably 20-footer on 10. Made about an 18 to 20-footer on 11, and then I pushed a 3-wood to about three feet on 12 and made eagle, and that was kind of -- you know, I go from being 3-under, which kind of everybody is, to being -- whatever it was, 3-under to, you know, 6-under, 7-under. 7-under.   
 So I think that was the key, and that's what you gotta realize, a course like this is just one stretch of holes away from making two or three birdies and really making up some ground.  
  
  Q. I think you made the cut right on the number. And what were your thoughts heading into today?  
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah. Really and truly there's really nowhere to go but up. I was shocked that the cut was 2-under, but being first out hopefully with a little less wind and soft greens, you just realize there's nowhere to go but up, you might as well. And I think that's kind of the mentality I'm going to have tomorrow as well, just go out and put the pedal to the metal.  
  
  Q. Have you played here before?  
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah, yeah. I've played well here before. I've got a good history. I like this golf course. I think I've gotten a couple of Top 10s here.  
  
  Q. What sets up well for you on this course?  
 CHARLES WARREN: You gotta drive the ball well. The tee shots suit my eye, and ironically I did not drive the ball well. I only hit half the fairways today, and that's not my -- not how I usually operate. But I told my caddy, I said, maybe this whole driving thing is overrated.   
 But it's good. I think if I can come out and drive the ball a little bit better tomorrow and putt like I did, I think I'll play well, so I'm looking forward to that.  
  
  Q. Well, thanks very much.   
 CHARLES WARREN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT