MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA-CANCUN
February 20, 2010
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: Charles Warren, thanks for spending a few minutes here in the media center. Obviously currently in the lead. First start of 2010, right? 
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah, it is my first start. I was actually just talking to my caddie about it walking up the last fairway. I don't know why, but I seem to play good in my first start every year. I don't know what it is. Maybe low expectations or something. 
 Happy to be in this position, you know, playing well, and looking forward to tomorrow. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: Just some highlights on your round.
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah, you know, highlights, the key to golf course is kind of playing the into-the-wind holes well and kind of just controlling your golf ball and making pars, and then taking advantage of your downwind holes, which I did. I birdied 1 out of the gate, and then -- I'm trying to think. Without my scorecard in front of me it's kind of hard. 
 But kind of the jumpstart to the round was that I eagled 8. Hit a driver and a 7-iron there about six feet and made that for eagle, and that kind of got me going.
 Birdied 9. I was 4-under or 5-under maybe even. But I'd say the eagle on 8 kind of got me going. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: It was a pretty consistent round overall, but is there one key you can point to in your round? 
 CHARLES WARREN: You know, I tell you, the two keys would be the eagle putt that got the round going. I'll tell you what was another key was on 14. I hit the ball in a fairway and had a bad 4-iron in the bunker left and has a really awkward, bad lie. Left it in the bunker and had another average bunker shot to probably ten or twelve feet and made that for bogey.
 Obviously you don't want to -- it would have been nice to get a round here without a bogey today, but it was nice to have that one as a bogey, because a double bogey there would have been bad timing for sure. 

 Q. (Through translation.) What do you do tonight going into tomorrow? Anything differently?
 CHARLES WARREN: No, I don't think you do anything differently. I mean, this golf course, you can't really get ahead of yourself. You got to stay in the present with the wind and all that. 
 I mean, it's just not a golf course where you -- you just need to go out and see each shot as best you can and just hit the golf ball and control your golf ball and leave it on the sides of the fairway if you want to. 
 But, you know, I think all in all I would like to be in the last group. I would like to have that chance tomorrow. I think that's something that I need, and I need to get that chance more often.
 NELSON SILVERIO: Thank you. Good luck tomorrow. 
 CHARLES WARREN: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT