WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2009
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Charles Warren to the Media Center. Charles is No. 124 in the FedExCup standings right now.   
 This is going to be his fifth time at the Wyndham Championship. He's got the T-3 in '05, T-13 in '07. Kind of talk about your thoughts coming into the week and then we'll take some questions.  
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah. You know, I'm pretty happy where my game is. The golf course is obviously pretty well-suited up. Played well here in '98 at the Nationwide event, felt pretty comfortable. Didn't finish all that great last year.   
 All in all my game is in good shape and obviously being on -- being one of the guys on the hot seat is something that -- it's an exciting sidebar this week kind of for media and television and, you know, I'm excited about it.   
 I look forward to going out and playing well this week, trying to get in contention and not only try to get in the first playoff event but hopefully kind of work my way up to where I'm in good position to get in Boston after New York.  
 I'm excited. Having a baby on Tuesday, so I went out and played Liberty National this past Monday and everything looks great. Looks like it's going to be a pretty neat event.   
 Definitely have a little different feel than we've had the last few years at Westchester and Ridgewood, just being so close to the city.   
 It's pretty amazing what they've done with the golf course that close to downtown New York City and the Statute of Liberty. All in all it's exciting. I look forward to hopefully being there next week.  
 MARK STEVENS: Questions.  
  
  Q. What's your schedule going to be like with the baby coming?  
 CHARLES WARREN: We're going -- I'm going to play this week and then I'm going to drive home Sunday night, hopefully have the baby Tuesday morning, then fly out to New York Wednesday afternoon.   
 That's the game plan. It's going to be a little bit hectic and different week. But I don't know. All in all it's pretty exciting. It's a lot of good stuff going on right now.  
  
  Q. You mentioned being on the bubble, so to speak. Couple of years ago this wasn't possible. What do you think it's done for the game of golf as we come towards the end of the season? You like the format that it is in now?  
 CHARLES WARREN: I mean it's kind of an interesting question. I don't think it has anything to do with golf in general. I think it's just -- I think it's exciting for us to have different product to offer the viewer and I think that's -- I think that's what the playoffs has created.   
 Obviously you guys want the best players in the world playing the most weeks against each other on great golf courses and that's what the playoffs creates, it creates that opportunity and it creates a major incentive for guys like that, you know, the top whatever guys in the world to do that.  
 So from that standpoint I think it's great. You know, it's definitely -- TV ratings, I think it's accomplished everything we wanted it to accomplish and I think it's kind of caught on with us, it's caught on with the media and obviously -- you guys care about it because I'm -- y'all are sitting here talking to me about it.  
 I think it's great. I think it's been really good. Obviously the field size is a little different this year and I'll be honest, I agree with -- I think that they should be a little more exclusive than they probably were the last few years.  
  
  Q. Has it changed the way that you approach coming into this weekend?  
 CHARLES WARREN: No. Obviously, like I said, it's something else that's on all of our plates but, at the end of the day, you know, when you're out there playing 72 holes, and I know you guys want something other than vanilla plain answer, you play each hole at a time and do what you can do.  
 It's not like you're going to change your game plan or hit a shot differently or anything like that. It's just -- at the end of the week -- like I said, not only trying to lobby to stay inside the Top 125, you need to work on your seeding going into the deal just so you can hopefully try to keep getting it going because at the end of the day if I play okay this weekend and I end up 124 and don't play great on Sunday I'm going to wish I had played better.  
 At the end of the day looking at it coming back from how it's going to be Sunday night you try to get in contention and win. Everything else will fall into place.  
  
  Q. How do you think your game is right now? How do you feel about it?  
 CHARLES WARREN: You know, it's good. That's another thing that if I was in this position and I had missed three cuts in a row, I would be a little bit more concerned about it.   
 But, you know, I played 7 weeks in a row, which was a little bit much. I think I made 6 out of 7 cuts and finished in the teens the last couple of weeks.   
 All in all, I think my game right now is probably as good a shape as I could ever remember it being, which makes it easy. It makes it easy knowing that you're going to go out, and I'm controlling my golf ball and hit it where I want to.   
 Really the X factor this week is going to be making a few putts and keeping my patience level up because obviously this is a golf course where scores will be low. If you don't get off to the hot start you want on Thursday it's easy to push the panic button.   
 At the end of the day there's a lot of birdies to be had out there no matter where you get them, you'll get them in stretches throughout the tournament throughout the day. You got to realize those stretches are ahead of you.  
  
  Q. You're not in a situation where you think the baby might come early or anything?  
 CHARLES WARREN: No. Her due date is not until the 31st. I saw Ryan Palmer. They were supposed to have their scheduled section the same day. I don't know what his situation is. I don't know if she went into labor or whatnot. My wife is hopefully taking it easy. Being close to home, I can get home fairly quickly if I needed to.  
 MARK STEVENS: Anything else? Okay. Thanks a lot Charles.  
 CHARLES WARREN: Thanks, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT