TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2009
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Thank you for joining us for a few minutes here in the interview room, after round one of the Travelers Championship. Got off to a great start with two birdies en route to a bogey-free 7 under 63. That's got to make you feel good and confident as you're heading into the week. Just a few comments on the round, and how you're feeling about your game overall? And then we'll take a few questions.  
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah, it was a good day. It was about as easy as 63 could be. I hit the ball well. I missed one fairway from the first cut, and missed one green that I actually putted on that hole. So putted for birdie 16 times and for eagle twice, which gives you a lot of chances.   
 You know, looking back on on it, looking at the putts I only made maybe one putt on two like I said, it's going to make it easy, but I'm pleased, 63 around here is a good round of golf. Because you can make a lot of birdies but there are plenty of places to make mistakes.   
  
  Q. How much is your relationship with Lucas and your history there, how much, if any, did that kind of motivate you?   
 CHARLES WARREN: I knew someone was going to ask me that when I got done today . It's really weird. My wife, when we got done, I was home watching it, after we got done, it was just I looked at my wife, and I'm like, I don't know if I'm motivated. I don't know what I am.   
 Talking to my sports psychologist who has seen this develop between people that are close friends and seen people do things like this said, look, it will motivate you. It will free you up and make you realize that you can do the things that you want to do. Apparently that's what it did.   
 It's been fun talking to Lucas. I had dinner with him last night. So it's been a whirlwind for him, and it's been a whirlwind for me, too.   
 I told him I don't know how you're dealing with this, but I'm going to charge you for all my cell phone minutes this week. I've gotten more texts and calls than if I won the tournament.   
 You know, I don't know. I guess motivation, encouragement, it's just great. It's great and fun to watch. Great for Clemson, and great for Greenville and a lot of things. So it's pretty neat.   
  
  Q. You said the course will still continue to score low this afternoon, into the late afternoon?   
 CHARLES WARREN: No doubt. The greens, that was my biggest concern with all the rain you've had here was the greens tend to get a little bumpy when it gets a lot of moisture. But these greens, they are so good. They're a little slower than they usually are just because of the moisture. But they really are keeping their roll very nicely.   
 Whoever the superintendent is has done an unbelievable job getting the golf course ready given the amount of rain you've had. So I think there will below rounds all week. I told some of the other reporters I think 59 is a possibility. With the chances for eagles and the drivable par 4, like I said, I don't think I made a putt over 5 or 6 feet today other than No. 2. So I'm not going to sit here and cry about 63. But somebody gets to hitting the ball well, they can get a threat.   
 I'm not saying somebody's going to shoot a 59, but someone will have a chance with four or five holes to be there this week.  
  
  Q. We spoke to Paul Goydos a few minutes ago, he shot a 63. And he made almost the exact comments?  
 CHARLES WARREN: If I had made the putt on 15, I could have birdied the last three to do it. That's kind of farfetched, but, anyway, it will be interesting to see how it plays out.   
 But it will be one of those weeks where you've got to keep the pedal down. You can't be going backwards this week, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. You said you putted for 16 birdies and one eagle. Can you remember the last time you had that many -- usually guys have to get up-and-down in the bunk error something. Can you remember the last time you had that many under par chances?   
 CHARLES WARREN: I'm thinking golf courses more than rounds. Because most of the courses we play, you know, I think that's right. I think I missed one green, and I putted for eagle twice. And I putted for birdie on the hole on this. So, I missed that one and putted on 12. Then I hit it the par 5 on the back. So not really, not really.   
 But I think you're going to see a lot of that. I mean, these fairways, when they go fast they tend to roll out in some spots. As they are, they can really hit a lot of fairways.   
 If you put guys on on the fairway with soft greens, they're going to take advantage of it. There are so many good players here this week, that somebody -- and it's kind of a mentality.   
 I would be shocked if somebody that played the Open last week didn't come here licking their chops going from that to this. I mean, I'm just comparing the two golf courses. This one obviously lends more to birdies than last week did.   
 DOUG MILNE: If you wouldn't mind just running us through your birdies and giving us some clubs?   
 CHARLES WARREN: Sure, hit a good drive on 1. God, today was weird. Let me go ahead and state that. We start on 1. Bo Van Pelt makes it on the first hole. We get on 10, and the crowd goes crazy on 11 because Tag Ridings makes a hole in one. And Rich Beem lips out for two on 10. And it was just really weird. And somebody else did something, too.   
 DOUG MILNE: J.J. holed out.  
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah, and Billy Andrade made eagle on 2. Anyway, 1, hit a good driver down there. Hit a pitching wedge to the hole location really nicely. I guess the closest I can probably give you. Hit it three and a half feet, made that.   
 2, hit driver. Hit a good little chip around the bunker to that hole location, tucked around the bunker. Made that 11 feet coming down the hill. 6, hit a good drive. Hit a 3-wood in there short and right of the green. Hit a really good chip from a so-so lie. Took probably, let's see here, three and a half feet and made that.   
 11, hit a good shot into 11. Hit it five and a half feet left of the hole, and made that. 13, hit driver, 3 iron just right of the hole, probably, I don't know how far the first putt was, probably 18 or 20 feet for eagle.   
 14 was my one fairway I missed. Hit it in the first cut on the left. I had a really bad lie, and hit a good sand wedge in there that landed short of the green and rolled up to I mean, like, three inches.   
 15 I hit it right behind the hole and two-putted from 15 feet behind the hole. So those are the birdies. But, you know, the only other thing about this golf course that's kind of tough are the chipping areas with all the water, and the collection. You can get some kind of wet lies that are tough to make really, really crisp contact.   
 So if you short side yourself on some of these bottoms, that can be a challenge. But if you hit a lot of fairways and greens you can get it.   
  
  Q. You prefer to play the course hard packed than wet?   
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah, I guess. I just shot 63 on it wet, so it's kind of hard to say. But, yeah, I think if you took a poll of the players on how they want to play every golf course, they want to play it as difficult as they could possibly play.   
 But, coming from last week we're 4 under 1 by two shots, I think the fans will enjoy watching guys make lots of birdies and eagles and whatever, so. And hole in ones. So I think it's going to be one of those weeks where there are going to be lots of shots of the week.  
 DOUG MILNE: All right, keep it up, congratulations and thanks for the time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT