ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2009
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Nice playing, really consistent out there?
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah, I got off to a good start birdying the first couple of holes. Continued that, made a couple of good par putts to hang in the game. 
 Turned at 4 under going to the front. Kind of floundered a little bit. Parring the first three holes and then bogeying the fourth hole. Kind of jump started the round. Got it. Keeping it going with an eagle on 7. So that was good. That was really good. 
 Couple of good pars on the last couple. But it was nice. Controlled my ball well. Put a new set of Taylor Made irons in the bag today. I haven't played the irons all year, and they really did well for me. I'm excited about what the week might hold with those.

 Q. Seemed to make friends really quickly. Tell me about the eagle?
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah, the eagle was great. I hit a good drive on on 7. Hit a high hooking 3-iron. I had a 255 to the hole, and I was trying to land it short. Land on the front edge and funneled 20 to 25 feet of the hole. Made a good putt and it went in. That was pretty big.

 Q. You haven't played many events. This is your sixth event of the year?
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah in the 126 to 150 category, you have to play what you can get in. I was lucky enough to get a sponsorship exemption at the Verizon, and next week at the Quail Hollow Championships. I definitely appreciate the spot.

 Q. Seems like you're making the most of your opportunity. 
 CHARLES WARREN: That's the game plan. 

 Q. When did you change clubs? 
 CHARLES WARREN: I signed a driver deal with Taylor Made at the beginning of the year. And I've played Ping irons for 20 years. Today was the first round with a non-Ping made iron in 20 years.

 Q. What motivated you? 
 CHARLES WARREN: I've been driving the ball really well. And my iron play has not been as good as I feel it like it should have been. And I just, you know, I had these in the bottom of the house. I had the wrong shaft on them. And my son has been banging balls around the house with them for two weeks. 
 I grabbed one from him because he was hitting the wall. I said these are pretty good. Got them reshafted and I played with them on Monday and Tuesday and liked them. And Dirk signed off on them, and here we go.

 Q. Really? Was it hard to change after 20 years? 
 CHARLES WARREN: Huge. It is hard. It is hard. With me, it's easy knowing that when I usually switch something like that I usually play well, you know. I don't know if it's my expectations are lower. 
 But, you know, it's something fresh. It's good. I like them. I think they're great. I controlled them pretty well today and looking forward to what they might do for me. 

 Q. Talk about your round; how did you play out there? 
 CHARLES WARREN: I feel good. I felt like the wind was blowing enough to keep you honest. Hit a lot of fairways and lot of greens. 
 The key to my round was a good 15-foot par putt on number 12, my fourth hole of the day. Birdied 2. Birdied 13. That kind of got me going. Made a good putt for birdie on 18 to turn at 4 under, and one bogey on the front. Then the eagle on 7 kind of finished the round off on a good note.

 Q. Seems like the rules committee set the holes up for some good scoring?
 CHARLES WARREN: With this south wind predicted for two or four days, if it picks up to 20 miles an hour, there are so many holes where if you don't put the tees up, it becomes almost unplayable. Because these greens are really hard and firm, and, I mean, you can't hit 2-irons and 3-irons from these holes with the greens as firm as they are, because they all have something in front of them. 
 But, yeah, the rule staff did a really good job today on setting up the golf course.

 Q. You want to play well every day. But what does getting off to a good start mean for you?
 CHARLES WARREN: For me, it's huge. The tournament that I played well in my career for the most part, I played well in the first round. So I think tomorrow afternoon will be similar conditions, blowing. Go out, hit fairways and greens and see how many putts you can make. That is the key to this golf course. Controlling your golf ball and keeping it in the right spot and out of the wrong spot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT