JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 16, 2008
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Welcome, Charles Warren. Thank you for spending a few minutes with us here. Bogey-free 65 today. Talk about condition out there.   
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah, you know, it was one of those days where you just knew going into the day that the scores were going to be really low, and I think they're going to continue to be low between now and this afternoon.  
 The greens are perfect, the fairways are running hard and fast, and there was very little wind to deal with. When you get those kinds of conditions on a golf course like this, traditionally the scores are very, very low.   
 But I think that's going to be the word of the week based on the weather, is just keeping the pedal down and keep doing what I did today and hitting a lot of greens and putting the ball in the right position and hopefully making a few putts. That was the key to my day.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Questions.  
  
  Q. You looked like you were getting better as your round went on. Was there anything special that kind of kicked in on the backside for you?  
 CHARLES WARREN: You know, not really. My goal today, it's very easy when you tee off early like that. I was off at 7:00 a.m. It's really easy to go out and really not get into it early. That was really one of my goals this morning, was to really hit the ground running and give myself some chances.   
 I made a long putt on 2. Made a good up-and-down from the front bunker on 3, the par-5, and that kind of got me going.   
 But all in all, there are some difficult holes out there. 4 is not easy. Where the hole is today it's just kind of hard to get close. 5 is not easy. 6 is not an easy hole. You just see stretches.   
 If you look at the end of my round, you're going to see that on the this golf course with a drivable par-4 and two par-5s and 18 playing short, you're going to see guys come into the house really strong on the last four or five holes.   
 All in all, I felt I really controlled my golf ball today. I didn't feel like I drove it as well as I could have, but I felt like I definitely put the ball in the right positions and avoided the wrong spots, which around these greens is very tough. If you miss it in the wrong spot, it's tough to get it up-and-down.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 CHARLES WARREN: 2 I made a long putt from behind the hole there for birdie.   
 3, I got it up-and-down from the front bunker. Really good up-and-down. Let's see here, 8, 9. Got it up-and-down from the front bunker on 9 as well for birdie.   
 Made a great up-and-down on No. 12 from the left bunker after hitting a bad tee shot there for par. Could have been one of the turning points in the round.   
 13, made a really -- I fanned my drive kind of right and fanned the 3-wood kind of right and had a tough up-and-down. Hit a good chip and it ran probably 15, 18 feet past the hole and made it coming back. That was huge. That was really good.   
 Then on 15, the drivable par-4, I knocked it right on the back of the green and two-putted. I had a really tough two-putt about five or six feet and made that.   
 16, didn't hit a good drive there. Hit it right. Laid it up and hit a sand wedge in there probably six or seven feet behind the hole and made a good putt there.   
 Then 17, I can't wait to see that on tape, because I don't know how it didn't go in. I mean, it was -- it looked like it literally went over the left edge of the hole. But that kind of a bonus. 17 is a tough hole to get the ball close to, you know, just the way the green rolls. Hitting from an elevated tee like that it's kind of hard to get the right distance.   
 And then 18 was kind of a bummer. I hit a good drive on 18 and had 95 yards to the hole. I had L wedge in and hit a perfect L wedge. It landed up at top of the mound, but it spun too much and came back to the front the green.   
 But, you know, it is what it is. I'm not going to complain about a bogey-free 65 anywhere, that's for sure.  
  
  Q. Do you think the new format is going to play a big role in those scores? How did it affect you personally not having to play with amateurs today and playing at one course where you can really just focus in on 18 holes?   
 CHARLES WARREN: I think that playing the golf course four days in a row is probably going to be more of a factor than not playing with amateurs. You know, before it was two pros and two amateurs. The pace of play was really good. The amateurs were very well educated about picking up and stuff. It was an easy deal.   
 I think the biggest thing is just go to be getting into a rhythm on the same golf course. You're going to see guys get into a rhythm. Somebody that might shoot, 3, 4, 5 today is going to get progressively better every day and be there at the end of this tournament. I think that would be more of a factor than not playing with amateurs.   
  
Q. (No microphone.)  
CHARLIE WARREN: That would be good. If I get better every day from here, that would probably be the case.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 CHARLES WARREN: That would be good.   
  
  Q. Was there any advantage today being out there with no visible wind?   
 CHARLES WARREN: Yeah.   
  
  Q. You think that's going to contribute to the scores today?   
 CHARLIE WARREN: Oh, yeah. It's supposed to be like this all week. That's when this golf course really plays tough is if the wind blows like it did on Tuesday it's hard to get the ball close to the hole on the greens.   
 If it stays like this all week you're going to see some really low scores. I mean, we had perfect greens. The greens are absolutely perfect. We had them without a blemish for nine holes, and then as good as anybody for the second nine.   
 I think that was -- if the conditions stay like this, you're going to see some really good scoring this week.  
  
  Q. Take a football question? Who is going to be the new Clemson coach?  
 CHARLES WARREN: I'll tell you what, I really think that Dabo Swinney, our wide receivers coach, I like this guy. Everybody that I'm talking to at home, he's rallying the troops. He's got a lot -- he's put about 30,000 more people in the seats for Georgia Tech. We were pretty down, and I'm telling you, it's going to be good.  
 I mean, we've got a short list of guys that I'm hearing rumors about, but you know how that is. Even with inside information, you never know what they're thinking.   
 I think if he wins five games he's our guy, and I don't think that would be a bad thing. He's good.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Thanks, Charles.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT