BUICK OPEN
June 26, 2008
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It's probably not the way you probably wanted to finish, but you gotta be happy?
 CHARLES WARREN: The 18th hole out of 72. So that's the way I gotta look at it. I played solidly all day. Started in with a couple of 3-putts. But all in all I'm pleased. My ball tracking is where I wanted it to be. I accomplished a lot of things with my mental game today that I was looking forward to hopefully getting into.

 Q. The back nine is where you have to score and you really did that there. Can you talk about what was going right for you back there?
 CHARLES WARREN: I started out 3-putting 10 and had a great save on 11 for par. And, like I said, went on that stretch of six in a row. Definitely started yesterday and I knew it was out there. You've got two reasonable par 5s and two drivable, close to drivable par 4s. So that's really where you gotta make up your ground. 
 That's kind of -- that's going to be where obviously you gotta make at least three or four birdies in that stretch to kind of keep pace. Shooting 20- to 25-under, the front nine is more difficult and definitely a lot less birdies on that side.

 Q. Talk about going into a round, going into a tournament where you know scoring, the winning score is 20-under, 21-under, what are you thinking about when you go out there, knowing you're going to have to get birdie?
 CHARLES WARREN: Well, you know, I just think that a golf course like this, you can shoot 63 or 4, but you can really shoot 73 or 4 in a hurry, if you start hitting the ball poorly off the tee. 
 Because this golf course is tight in the rough. Right off the fairways it's brutal. It really is bad. So I mean that's the key. You gotta get a game plan. When you get up on every tee, you know what you're going to do with this, with a tee shot. You don't want to get up there, going into drivers with the 3-wood. You want to get up there with a game plan. And having said that, you realize you're going to miss some fairways and add on the holes and take advantage of it on the easy holes.

 Q. That's two straight weeks with a good first round. 
 CHARLES WARREN: I've been playing well the last two or three weeks. I shot 76 the second round at Memorial and, surprisingly, got a lot of confidence out of that round. One of those stretches the last month. I'm close. I really am. I'm looking forward to hopefully getting on the trail and getting going this weekend.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT