FBR OPEN
February 3, 2008
Charles Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Well, Charles, let me start with the closing holes.  Great birdie to finish off, 16, the ball goes in the hole, you start pumping your fist.  How does that stay out, dude?   
 CHARLES WARREN:  I don't know.  I thought I had read it right and I hit a good putt.  I hit exactly the putt -- I mean, three feet out, it was exactly what I thought it needed to be.  Somehow it missed.  But you know, like I said yesterday, I went out and I stayed in a good frame of mind.  I didn't hit all the golf shots I wanted to hit today.  I hit a couple bad ones on the par 5s.  You can't make two 6s on the par 5s on this golf course and expect to contend, especially when you've got the caliber of players that we had at the top of the leaderboard.   
 All in all, you know, I'm pleased.  I learned a lot.  There's a lot to take away from this, but at the end of the day I played well, and I think I did fairly well today considering the two or three really bad shots that I hit.   
  
  Q.  In the big picture of things, you've got to be really happy with how you did coming into a day with tough conditions.  I mean, it was not easy out there this morning when you all started.   
 CHARLES WARREN:  It was cool, but the wind didn't really blow as much as it was supposed to, and I really thought somebody would shoot a really low score.  I guess Stuart Appleby played well, or somebody played well --   
  
  Q.  Briny Baird had a real good one coming in but he bogeyed his last two.   
 CHARLES WARREN:  Okay.  But like I said, it was out there.  I get off to a bad start.  I fought back, gave myself a chance.  The putts just didn't fall coming down the stretch on 16 and 17.  And you know, I tried to hit a cut 2-iron on the par 5, 15, and just double-crossed it.  After watching J.B. miss it right, you know that water is really close on the right.  I tried to hit the shot, it's just not a shot that I'm comfortable with hitting, but it was the shot that I had to hit at the time and I double-crossed it.   
 You know, that's part of the deal.  I learned something from the day and I took something away and I'm looking forward to doing it again.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT