NBA DRAFT
June 23, 2011
Jan Vesely
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JAN VESELY (No. 6)
  WASHINGTON WIZARDS

 Q. Jan, can you talk about when you found out that you were going to the wizards, and just your immediate reaction to playing with John Wall?
 JAN VESELY: When I found out? I think like five minutes -- three to five minutes before I go on the stage. 

 Q. And playing with John Wall? 
 JAN VESELY: Of course, he's a very, very good point guard. He can open up a fast break really, really quick. So I think I like his game, it's a fast team, and I'm happy to be there. 

 Q. Talk about your game. What is your game going to be at the NBA level and what do you feel like you're going to bring to the Wizards?
 JAN VESELY: I think my game, it's a really fast game. I like a lot of fast breaks, and I think I can work on that. 

 Q. How much did the Wizards scout you throughout the last couple of months? I know they saw you work out. What was their communication with you through this process?
 JAN VESELY: I communicated with them after that. I had great feelings after that meeting. 

 Q. Talk about how you came across your love of the game for basketball; in the Czech Republic, it's not a popular sport, and I know you said you want to make basketball more popular in your home country?
 JAN VESELY: Basketball in my country is not so popular, but after this night, I think -- I hope, that the basketball will be more popular. I will do my best to help that. 

 Q. What part of your game do you feel is most polished and will translate over into the NBA the quickest? 
 JAN VESELY: I think the fast game, the running, defense; this I think. 

 Q. How do you think your skills will help the Wizards to rebuild? 
 JAN VESELY: How? I think, you know, we can work hard to win the games. I will do my best, of course, and I am ready to go to the Wizards. 

 Q. You were a teammate of Nenad Krstic. Talk about are you in touch with him on how to give you advice on how to make the adjustment to the NBA?
 JAN VESELY: I'm not in touch with him. I never spoke to him. So we'll see, maybe when I get back to Europe. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT