SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 16, 2008
Rachel Hetherington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Rachel, thanks for coming in and joining us. I know you weren't even halfway through your round but the LPGA has announced that today's scores are going to be washed and the second round will start tomorrow, and this has been reduced to a 54-hole event instead of the originally scheduled 72.   
 Can you just talk about the conditions today and some of the things you guys were fighting through?   
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, well, I guess obviously it was pretty consistent rain all morning, and I teed off at 9:16, so it was raining when we were waking up and just a constant drizzle all day and fairly cool as well. You know, I kind of got off to a fairly solid start.   
 It was good to birdie 11, that was my one birdie, and yeah just kind of -- when it's a little cool weather or kind of tough weather, I just try to swing within myself and I did that today which was kind of good but I guess it doesn't count now.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And if you could, too, just comment on this is definitely nothing unique, what's going on, this is something that happens every now and then as a result of Mother Nature, right.  
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, unfortunately it's a shame because we have had some great drying days the last few days after the tough weather on Monday.   
 So you know, the course is in pretty good shape and there's such a good buzz about this tournament, and the sponsor and Upper Montclair have just been so gracious in hosting it for us. So it's a shame that we have had to wipe out a day unfortunately, but yeah, it was a pretty big rain system over us at the moment so you can't do anything about that.   
  
  Q. How disappointing is it to have your score erased? How quickly do you put that behind you, or are you upset about that?   
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Fortunate for me, I was 1-under for today, so usually when you're under par, you don't want it erased and when you're over, you do want it erased. It's the same for everybody, just kind of have to clean the slate and start again tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Had it got to the point where lift, clean and place could have been put in play? I know it can't in the middle of the round but was it at that point in the golf course where you could have gone to lift, clean and place normally?  
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, I think it continued on this afternoon for sure. I didn't actually have any mud on my ball on the first kind of five holes I played but it was getting progressively worse, so there would certainly have been a time as the day got on that we would have required lift, clean and place.   
  
  Q. Since tomorrow will essentially be today again, you'll tee off in the morning, are you worried that the scores might still be damp or soft and that the players going out later in the day might have a couple more hours to have the horse dry out and might have an easier time out there?  
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: You know, they won't have as much of an advantage as they would have had if we had finished today.  
 Tomorrow it will be pretty much the same for everybody. You're teeing off on the same day, and I don't think there's too much rain forecast as of now. So it kind of depends on how much rain continues to fall today, but I'm sure the course will be in as good of shape as they can get it by the time we tee off tomorrow.   
 So the only advantage for the later groups tomorrow will probably be a little bit of a drying out, be able to hit the ball a little further off the tee and maybe get home on the par 5s.   
 But it should be in pretty good shape by the time we tee off in the morning, if the rain kind of stops this evening.   
  
  Q. Were there any shots you wanted back today, because now you have them.   
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I have to admit, no, but I'm giving them back anyway; is they have been taken from me. (Laughing).  
  
  Q. Were you pleased you were able to follow up yesterday's good round with another one?   
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, I was, the seven holes I played I played pretty solid given the conditions, so I was happy with the way I started. Especially after coming off a good round yesterday, it's always kind of tough to do. Yeah, I was very happy with the way I continued today.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Rachel, thank for your time and we hope to see you tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT