THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2000
Rachel Hetherington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: On the 4th hole, had a bogey there just missed the green left,
chipped in, 2-putt. The 7th hole, I missed the green on the left side and chipped in for a
birdie. And No. 9, I hit a sand wedge to about two feet and made a birdie there. No. 10, I
hit a six -- 6-iron to probably 20 feet and made the putt. And No. 11, I hit a sand wedge
to about 10 feet and made the putt. And there are my birdies. 
 
Q. Congratulations on your round today.
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Thank you. 
 
Q. It's always difficulty, I think, for someone like yourself to bogey a par 5. What
are you going to take out of that nice par-saving putt on 18 into tomorrow's round?
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, it was good to make that putt because it's definitely not a
good feeling to finish on a bad note, bogeying the last hole, whether it's a par 5 or not.
I'm still trying to sort out what to do off the tee there, because I had my 3-wood off the
tee and went through into the bunker; so that kind of put me back. You know, I hit a
6-iron out of the bunker then -- I was in between clubs and just hit a little bit too
hard, through to the back of the green. I really just want to keep on hitting fairways for
the rest of the week. And I putted really well coming in, so to make that nice putt on the
last, hopefully will continue. 
 
Q. Was it two years ago you had a good round here?
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I was just thinking, I usually haven't gone into too many media
centers, but I think I was in this one after the first round. 
 
Q. Then you kind of fell back. This year, do you think you'll be able to build on it? 
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, I think I'm probably a little bit more prepared than I think
that might have been on the first year I played the Dinah. Yeah, I'm playing a lot more
solidly than I was back then and every area of my short game has improved. So, you know,
I'm looking forward to hopefully playing well for the rest of the week. 
 
Q. How tough is the golf course playing out there today? You went around with just the
one bogey. 
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, it's pretty tough. I mean, I did well because I kept it in
the fairway for the most part of the day. I missed a couple of fairways coming in; and I
think that's really the secret, because the rough is so thick off the fairway -- you know,
I had a shot today on 15. I just really took an 8-iron and tried to knock it out up by the
green because there was nothing else I could hit out, to get at least a decent shot out of
the rough. So it was playing a little bit more difficult than last year, I think. And the
greens are nice and the fairways are good. You've just got to make sure you stay on them. 
 
Q. How far did that 8-iron go, and how bad was that lie?
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: It was a pretty bad lie. I could see the top like -- you know, top
probably third of the ball, top quarter of the ball or something and had about 140 to the
pin. And I still had 40 to the pin for my third shot; so I hit about 100 yards and I hit
it all right out of the rough. It was a pretty bad lie. And then around the greens, you
know, you have a lot of rough as well, but I actually enjoy chipping out of the rough
around the greens because you can play with many more shots; so I like that. 
 
Q. How did you get started in the game and did you play much with Webb down under? 
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yes. Started when I was 14 and my parents played a little bit. So
I played a lot of other sports, and started to take up golf one day and kept on playing.
Played a lot of golf with Karrie both with and against her. We were from the same state in
Australia, Queensland. So we played a lot of junior and amateur golf together on the same
teams.  
 
Q. Did you have women professionals down there that you modelled after or were males
like Norman and those guys an influence at that time? 
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: It was mostly the guys. I never really saw any female golf on TV
growing up. And I knew of Jan Stephenson; although, I had never seen her play. Well, I
knew of her because she did calendars and stuff, and there was a lot of attention to her
from that. For me, I pretty much watched Greg Norman and -- you know at the majors there's
always a U.S. PGA or the Open, or the British Open is really popular in Australia; so I
was always watching those. And I guess I really modelled most of my golf off watching men
play because we just didn't get it on TV down there. 
 
Q. What if we were to have an all-Australian, say, final group, with you and Karrie,
has that happened before and what's the odds on it? 
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, actually it happened not too long ago. Played the Australian
Open, went to -- probably about four weeks ago, five weeks ago maybe, and we were both in
the final group. And Karrie shot 8-under and I shot 7-under and she got me by three. But
yeah, it would be good to see it, you know. It's great to see any Aussies play well, and
I'd be excited to be playing in the last few groups, no matter who I'm with. 
 
Q. Under most standards, you've won three times in the last 15 months. That would be
big news in Australia, but you've kind of taken a second seat to Karrie, do you mind that
at all?
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: No, not really. You know, I think it's just good to -- it's great
seeing what Karrie is doing, and she probably deserves more press for what she's achieved
over the last few years. And I'm happy with the way I'm playing, and I get my fair share.
You know, it's just good to get press in Australia or attention in Australia for women's
golf. You know, obviously, now juniors can watch us on TV. They don't have to watch the
guys and try to learn off the men. So it's good to see her playing well. And last year,
the Aussies had a pretty good year, Jan Stephenson played well, so it's good for Aussie
golf.  
 
Q. Were you working on anything in your game coming into this week, and if so, what was
it and what are you working on during your round of golf? 
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: When I was down in Australia, I got to see my coach; so it was
probably three, four weeks ago. And we were just working on trying to keep my backswing
pretty compact; I tend to get it long. On the golf course, I feel that's pretty simple on
the way back and I'm just trying to stay with the ball -- hard to describe -- I guess on
the way down, my hips turn a little -- my hips turn a lot more through the ball than my
arms and shoulders; so my arms tend to get left behind. So basically what I try to think
on the golf course is keep it simple on the way back and swing through together on the way
through. Yeah, that's about it, really. Just hitting fairways and greens this week.  
 
Q. Does Karrie do anything different with her game today than, say, when you started
out ten years ago? 
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Does Karrie do anything different?  
 
Q. Just if you could give us your impressions of her development, since you've known
her better than anyone, or longer than anyone as a player? 
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: She's obviously playing better. I think she always hit it well as
a junior, and she had a great short game from day one. Juniors, you don't -- well, we
didn't really have too many girls with good short games; so she always had a great touch
around the greens even as juniors. So I think that's what helped her when she first got on
tour; got a good short game. You shoot pretty solid scores and then the confidence came
with that. I guess everybody part of the game has improved, but she was always pretty
solid as a junior.  
 
Q. Did you go to school here? 
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: No. I went to school in Australia.  
 
Q. And you came here through the qualifying school?
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, I played in Europe for three years. I played on the European
Tour. Came into qualifying school at the end of '96 and got my tour card for '97.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I really enjoyed Europe because it was a
good tour, but I think if you want to play all year and against the best golfers, you've
sort of got to come over here.  
 
Q. Do you think that Karrie is at the point where she intimidates the other players
with her skills? 
 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON: You know, I can't really answer for anybody else. I've known her
so long that I don't really feel intimidated by her game or the way she plays. I think if
anything, it helps you, because you've got to improve your game and raise it to another
level to be competitive out here now. You know, I don't know what the other girls feel,
but I don't feel that intimidated by her. I think it's just exciting for women's golf to
have her playing so well.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT