U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 1999
Rachel Hetherington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I've obviously been hitting pretty solid, well, actually pretty
much all year. I had two weeks off coming into this week; so, I feel fairly fresh, and
looking forward to playing this week. The course is in great shape, and it's fairly open
and it's nice big greens. So I'm looking forward to teeing it up.

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I think I hit the ball fairly solid and fairly separate most of
the time. I feel like I can hit a lot of fairways, and the greens are fairly generous.
Although, there could be some pretty good pin spots; so, it's kind of hard to tell. You
know, coming into the weekend, the greens could harden up a lot. At the moment, they are
really good. The ball is stopping pretty good, and they are at good speed. I feel fairly
confident that I'll be hitting a lot of fairways and lots of greens. And hopefully I'll
make some putts, too.

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I'd better say yes. (Laughing.) I've known Dean for a long time,
and we actually played junior golf together. So we've been dating for about seven years
and got married early last year. I guess he's a really good player himself, and it's
pretty good of him to be able to travel with me. And it's good to have somebody besides me
being away from home and everything; so, he's been a big help.

Q. What is it about this season, because you've not only won, but you've made some
charges in the final rounds. What is this about this season that's kicked in and made you
feel more confident on the final day?

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I think my putting has probably improved a lot this year. I feel
like I hit the ball well for quite a long time, but the putting is what makes good scores,
and you can sink putts, then you make a lot of birdies. And when you hit the ball solid
and you've got a good round going, then you get a lot of confidence as well. I feel like
when I'm confident it doesn't really matter who is behind me on the leaderboards. I feel
like I can play well enough to win when I am confident.

Q. You mentioned that you took a couple weeks ago coming into this. I guess the
anniversary had something to do with that. But some players like to play into tournaments
and other players like to take a break like you have. Tell me the difference and why you'd
like to take a rest.

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I'd actually prefer to play a few tournaments in a row. But I
pretty much took the break, especially last week, because we had the tournament up in
Corning and it was really cold weather and I really didn't want to come from the cold
weather down to the humidity down here. Also I knew the greens would be fairly fast this
week, and Corning was a little slower; so, I didn't want to have to adjust that much
coming down. And winning the two events as well, it took a bit out of me, a bit more than
I thought it would; a bit more attention than I'm used to. So I decided to have Austin and
Corning off and had those two weeks. Before I won the two events, I had those two weeks
off as well. I just had one week totally away from the game, and the second week I just
started practicing a little bit. And my coach got a chance to come over last week as well;
so, I did a bit of work there.

Q. When you talk about that attention, there's another Australian golfer, I can't
recall her name right now, but somebody who has played really well that you've known since
the junior days. What's it like in Australia with the combined success? Is there a lot
more publicity for women's golf in your country?

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: There is a lot more attention, which is good. Just growing up, you
always had the male golfers to look up to and to idolize, so, hopefully with Karrie and I
and a couple of the other Aussies out here playing well, we can get more junior girls to
play. So it's been good in Australia. The Aussie media are pretty good, and it's been fun.
There's a lot of, you know, male golfers doing well, too, and everybody is looking forward
to the Olympics. So there is a lot of focus on sports in Australia.

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I'm sponsored by Callaway. And Callaway are probably one of the
best companies on TOUR in the fact that they support you well. They have -- they have a
trailer out every week. Anything you need club-wise they can get to you. And there's a
couple of other companies that do that, too; so equipmentwise, we were being supported
really well. I think when girls talk about endorsements, it's more sort of -- it's not
really the equipment sponsors they are looking for. It's the different sponsors. Sort of
off-the-golf-course sponsors that they are looking for. But equipment-wise we are doing
well.

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, I'm doing pretty well. They are in Australia, too.

Q. Can you talk about the course's finishing hole, particularly No. 18?

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, they are good finishing holes. Actually the whole back nine
is really good. I like the back nine. Well, the back nine is a little bit more interesting
than the front nine. But 18 is -- it's he a good hole. It's teeing off -- you've got to
back off a little bit because you have some bunkers on the right-hand side that could come
into play. The green is fairly wide. It's not too narrow. You still have a fair bit of
hitting area up there. 16, 17, 18 are all good finishing holes. Actually every hole on the
back nine is pretty good. You could use any of them for a finishing hole. I like them all.

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I'll probably take any one if I'm in contention. But I like -- I
like the tee that's further away just because it's a different angle into the green. The
forward tee has a bunker in the middle; so, pretty much all you have to do is fly the
bunker to get on the green. But I feel more comfortable on the tee that's a little further
away. It's only 10 or 15 yards back, but just setting up on the tee, I feel more
comfortable.

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: On the back, I used a 4-iron; and the front tee hit a 5-iron.

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: Yeah, if you plan well, you've got a bit of adrenaline; so, that
will carry you up the hill or if you've got some sports drinks or something to give you
some energy on the last few holes. 16 is good. It's a par 5; right? Or par 4? Yeah, I
think it's 16. See, I've only played it once. I can't remember. I should be able to
remember the climb, though. I feel pretty tired today.

Q. Do you and Karrie have sort of a joking rivalry over who will be the first to win a
major? Can you compare the pressures on the two of you?

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: We both get along pretty well. I think we're both playing well
enough to win a major one day. There's not really any pressure on who is going to be first
or whatever. One of us will be first and one of us will be second I guess. But there's a
lot of other Australians, too. There's no rivalry against Karrie and I. We both grew up in
junior golf. It actually helps to have other Aussie players playing well, because it gives
you the confidence and it just helps having other Australians over here. When you're
playing well it just makes the fact that you're away from home, away from all your
familiar surroundings and if you're playing well, it just makes you feel better about
being away from home. And if the other Aussies are around, it all helps. So, there's no
rivalry between us. I haven't really actually thought of who is going to be the first to
win a major. But Karrie is actually playing real, really well; so I would say she would
have to be a pretty good favorite for the event.

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I knew her through her calendars and the promotional stuff she had
done. We knew Nancy Lopez through a book I had read. I never really got to see any women's
golf on TV in Australia; so I had heard of them, but I always sort of saw the guys on TV,
which is a shame. Hopefully that will change in Australia.

Q. You said earlier you can't wait to tee it up. Do you see this course favoring any
one particular player out there on TOUR right now, how they hit it? Is this course set up
for them very well?

RACHEL HETHERINGTON: I don't think it favors any one particular player. But I think
because it's fairly generous, the rough doesn't that big, and the greens are pretty
generous as well. You're going to have a lot more players in contention than you would if
the fairways were narrow and the greens were a little quicker. I think when everything is
more generous, you bring a lot more players into contention; so it becomes sort of a bit
of a different tournament.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT