LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
September 1, 2007
Rachel Hetherington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Rachel, thanks for coming in and joining us.  Another great round, your best of the tournament so far, 5-under 67, and you're currently in second place.  Can you talk about your round again today? 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Yeah, I hit the ball really solid today and I putted well and when I needed to, I chipped well, as well. 
 Overall my game was just really solid today, and I felt very comfortable out there. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your five birdies? 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  I hit a sand wedge from 65 yards to three feet and made the putt for birdie. 
 On the 5th hole, I hit a 6-iron to 20 feet and made the putt for birdie. 
 The 6th hole, I hit a chip from just short of the green to three feet and made the putt for birdie. 
 No. 8, I hit a 9-iron to six feet and one putt for birdie. 
 Then on the 16th hole, I putted from off the green.  I used my putter just out of the fringe on the green and it went in the hole for birdie. 

 Q.  When is the last time you were in this position? 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  I can't remember.  At least 2003, I guess, I would say. 

 Q.  How does it feel? 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  It's great.  I've been working towards getting back into contention.  So it was nice to have a moving day that I moved up the leaderboard instead of, you know, down. 
 So it was nice to play well in the third round of the tournament and stay in contention. 

 Q.  When you see yourself 3-under, and then 5-under, was the wind a factor today? 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  It wasn't easy, the wind was up again today.  And especially on the second nine holes.  There are a lot of pin positions that are kind of tucked on the greens, and you really couldn't -- there was quite a few greens where you couldn't hit it at the pin or close to the pin; where you kind of had to hit it to the bigger part of the green and 2-putt.  So that probably held up the scoring a little bit. 

 Q.  What will it take to win tomorrow? 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Who knows?  Another good round, obviously.  You know, everybody on the leaderboard is playing well and has most probably had a low round at some point this week.  So you know, if you're hitting a ball well and putting well, there's a lot of birdies out there, and the girls that are on the leaderboard are doing that. 
 Yeah, just a matter of -- I think just capitalizing on the par 5s and taking advantage of the shorter hold and playing your way around the golf course. 

 Q.  Is there a part of your technique you've been working on? 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  I've been working on everything.  I think it's all -- you know, all of the areas of my game are improving.  Especially this week, I've been putting very well.  I've been hitting the ball pretty solid all week.  This week I've putted much better and I've been using a Yes! Putter for probably over a year now, and I love them.  My putter is an Abby putter and I've just been, you know, kind of working on the tempo of my putting stroke and kind of get the ball rolling.  Probably hitting a firmer putt, I guess, to the hole, and I've been working on that and I think I'm getting a better roll and I've made a few putts.  That's the big difference really. 

 Q.  Has that always been something that's been a problem? 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Yeah, you know, I've always kind of felt like I putted fairly solid or have hit my putts well, and I haven't really holed too many.  You know, starting to putt with the Yes! Putters, it's given me a lot of confidence because I hit the ball solid and I just have a great feel off them and then recently the last week or two, I've just been working on being much more confident putting through the line to the hole, and it's really improved my pace on my putts, and I'm not having as many 3-putts as I usually -- you know, or as I have been having this year.  So that's been a big improvement for me. 

 Q.  How important is it to get off to a good start tomorrow? 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Well, a good start is better than a bad start.  You can't determine what your round is going to be from the first hole or two.  Sometimes you'll play -- you'll start off badly but you'll finish great.  And then sometimes you start great and you finish badly. 
 So I don't think it really determines how your round is going to be, but I thought if you hit the ball solid for the first few holes and get into a nice rhythm, certainly that's where I certainly get a lot of confidence from. 

 Q.  Have you ever been in the final group in a final round before? 
 RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Yeah, absolutely, I've been in final groups before in final rounds.  Obviously I've worked very hard to get back to that position I guess, and this week it's happened for me.  You know, I'm going to draw on my experience and just keep trusting the work that I've done that's helped me finally get to this position I guess. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you and good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT