WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
Rachel Hetherington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  It was an interesting front nine and then you just played extremely well on the back nine and shot 37 and played yourself right back into this thing.
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Well, yeah, I went from being I guess 4 over for the day on the first four holes and wondering what the cut was and whether I was going to make and how I thought I was going to get around the golf course, even though I felt like I had hit a couple of good shots on 3 and 4, and found a good rhythm.  For the rest of it I was able to forget the first four holes, and I started my round again on No. 5.  I hit some really good shots and made a really good par putt on 8 and 9 and continued to putt well on the back nine.  It was quite bizarre; I went from thinking I was going to miss the cut to being in contention again.
Q.  Ever had a round like this before?
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  I don't think so.  Not from one extreme to the other for sure.  I think emotionally, from not very positive out there and really struggling to having so much control on the back nine and making the birdies and yeah, just hitting good shots and thinking positive again, went from one extreme to the other.
Q.  What's your lowest?
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  For nine holes, I may have shot 29 or 30 in the Australian Open quite a while ago.  Karrie Webb actually won it and we were dueling on the back nine and one of us shot 29 and one of us shot 30.

A few weeks ago in The Match Play tournament when I played My Hyun Kim, I was 10 under for 14 holes.  Last few months I've been kind of    I've either been really struggling and having some horrible    playing some pretty poor golf to hitting some great shots and playing some great round.  I haven't quite done it for four rounds yet this year.

First hole, I missed the green and had two putts from five feet for bogey.
Q.  Can you go through your round?
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  The third hole, I missed the fairway left and played a provisional, so I had two putts from 12 feet for a double bogey six.

The fourth hole, 3 putted from 15 feet for bogey.

6, hit a 4 wood on the green and two putted from 40 feet for birdie.

10, I hit an 8 iron to ten feet, one putt for birdie.

11, 8 iron to four feet for birdie.

13, I hit a 7 wood into the hole for eagle.  My caddie said a 4 wood and I said a 7 wood.  I have to get that in.  It was probably 180 yards.
Q.  Did it roll in or go straight in the cup?
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  It went straight in the cup.  All we heard was the flag, like it hit the flag, but we didn't see the ball go anywhere, and nobody around the green saw it.  So we were walking up to the green and the marshals are going to the left in the rubbish and I thought, "How could it be all that way?"  We walked up and the marshal said, "We didn't see it and we only heard the flag."  And we looked in the hole and there it was, so it went straight in into the cup.

14, I hit a 5 iron and had one putt from 20 feet for birdie.

15, I had one putt from ten feet for birdie.  I hit a chip, a 30 yard pitch.

16, I hit a 9 iron and one putt from four feet for a birdie.

17 was a pretty reasonable chance.  I just misread it from ten feet and I 2 putted.

18, you know, I was on the green, 20 feet.  Hit a poor second shot, wasn't the best, but yeah.
Q.  13?
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Yeah, I did just the left edge of the hole.  We were being timed at the time, so an official was right there to repair it for us.
Q.  You didn't have a warning?
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  No.  The officials just came up and said we were being timed.
Q.  On the clock?
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  On the clock, yes.
Q.  You played well here last year.
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Yeah, I did play very well last year, I remember that.  Even with the start that Karen got off to on the final round, I hung in there that final round and I played well all year.  I really enjoyed playing Royal Birkdale the last time we had the British Open here.  It's important to me to play well.  I really love is this golf course.  It's probably my favorite on the rotation that we play here.  You know, Peter Thomson and Ian Baker Finch won here, too, so I think it's kind of special to the Aussies.
Q.  How have your results been otherwise this year?
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Pretty steady.  Nothing too spectacular.  I've had a few good weeks here and there.  On the whole as I said before, not really putting four rounds together.  I put a couple of good rounds and a couple of poor round.  I felt like I had to kind of tough it out every day I played and it's been kind of tough to hit good shots and make good things happen.
Q.  Any reason?
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Probably my short game if anything.  You're always going to hit the odd shot that costs you, but I think my short game for the most part, probably not chipping as well as I could; and putting wise, missing a few key putts I guess that can turn around the round.
Q.  Do you still work with Ian?
RACHEL HETHERINGTON:  Yeah, I still work with Ian.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT