BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2016
Brandon Schneider
Lauren Aldridge
Chayla Cheadle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Kansas - 81, TCU - 64   
THE MODERATOR: Weir now joined on the head table with Kansas.  Coach Brandon Schneider and his two student-athletes, Lauren Aldridge and Chayla Cheadle.  Coach, your opening comments before we take questions from our student-athletes?   
COACH SCHNEIDER: Obviously, just really proud of our team's effort.  We have want had the kind of year that we wanted from a record perspective.  But I really have to give our players a lot of credit.  The last three weeks I think we've gotten significantly better.  It's nice to see them put it all together tonight in a winning effort.   
 Q.  Lauren, just take us through the fourth quarter, psychologically, having a lead and carrying it as I'm sure you guys have had before this season, but holding on to it and what was that like, just believing and hanging on?  
LAUREN ALDRIDGE: You know, I think we have had a couple of games this season where we went into the half up and didn't finish very well at all.  I think it was just a total change of mindset for us coming out of the half.  I think that we knew what it felt like to be on the other end of it, and we didn't want it to happen again.  So I think our girls did a great job of coming out, and we always talk about the first five minutes.  I think we did a great job coming out the first five minutes with a lot of energy and that carried on through the third quarter and in the fourth quarter we preached first five minutes and strung so stops together and did a really good job finishing.   
CHAYLA CHEADLE: Same with Lauren.  We talked about keeping our composure, past games we haven't been able to keep the lead and I thought we did a great job of staying together as a team.  We had some ups and downs, but we stuck together and finished strong.   
 Q.  Talk about moving ahead now, very short turnaround, you play Texas.  How much can this energy and enthusiasm carry you through tomorrow?  
LAUREN ALDRIDGE: Definitely, I think we are going to use all the energy we can get playing against Texas.  We are excited about the opportunity, like the Big 12 we see them -- we have seen them twice this year.  So we've got to see what happens, but we've got to come with a lot of energy, though.   
 Q.  Chayla, you were close to beating TCU earlier this week.  How does this feel?  
CHAYLA CHEADLE: It was great.  I thought we did a great job of preparing for this game and we came in with the mentality that this is going to be our game that we're going to win.   
THE MODERATOR: Ladies, we're going to let you go back to the locker room.  Questions for Coach?   
 Q.  Coach, as happy as you are, was there any sort of just sort of where has this been?  
COACH SCHNEIDER: Well, you know, we're such a young team, I really think we're probably the youngest team in the country in the Power 5 conferences, start three freshman, two sophomores, new staff.  But, again, I really think -- you know, we've gotten better and when you're not having a very good season it would be very easy for those young guys to quit and start looking forward to next season, but they've really stuck with us.   
We've had really good practices and it's one of those nights where we finally make some shots and I thought we executed really well for the most part on the offensive end.   
 Q.  You talk about making shots, you only had one quarter that you shot under 50%, how did that come together, getting the quality of shots?  
COACH SCHNEIDER: I thought we got the ball ret at this close to the basket a lot and I think that's really important for us.  Then we had the right people, you know, make some timely threes for us as well.  I was disappointed at halftime, we were on the wrong side of the free-throw battle and we preached working hard to try to get to the bonus first there in the third quarter and I thought we cut really hard and got 'em to foul us some on those cuts and got to the bonus pretty quickly.   
THE MODERATOR: All right, Coach, thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT