NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: HARTFORD
March 20, 2019
Ja Morant
Shaq Buchanan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I was wondering, from both your perspectives, we know when they're on defense, you're on offense.  They're going to focusing a lot of attention on Ja.  What game plan are you expecting and how are you going to beat it?  
SHAQ BUCHANAN: This year we saw a whole bunch of different defense for Ja.  We prepare for it.  From film, they play solid man defense.  I don't expect nothing different.  We been preparing for it the whole week.   
JA MORANT: Like Shaq said, all year, we've been seeing different types of defensive schemes against me.  And we watch film and they played a lot of man, so that's what we prepare for.  Also, just go through some of the other stuff, like if they go zone, anything, so --   
 Q.  Shaq, I'm sure you guys are going to alternate defensive assignments on Markus Howard, after studying him for a few days.  What are you are you going to try to key in on defensively?  
SHAQ BUCHANAN: I know he's a very great player on offense, had different moves.  I did study a lot of film on that.  I'm accepting the challenge to guard Markus Howard.   
 Q.  Jumping off on guarding Markus Howard, I'm sure it will be multiple assignments.  How much do you think you'll get a chance at guarding Markus, Ja?  
JA MORANT: Me and Shaq both have the assignment on Howard, and we have been studying film on him.  He's a great scorer, and we're both ready to take on the challenge.   
 Q.  For both of guys, Ja and Shaq.  Murray State has a long history of success in the NCAA Tournament and in the OVC.  How much does that motivate you to put another banner up there in the rafters?  
SHAQ BUCHANAN: It's been a goal of ours, we know the type of tradition Murray holds, and know one of the reasons we came here is to leave our legacy and we have a chance to do that with the team we have this year.   
ERNIE DUNCAN: Like you said, Murray has a great tradition, and this is our goal since June, when we first stepped on campus with the team we have now.  We put a lot of time and hard work into this, and just hanging another banner feels good.   
 Q.  Ja, I know you've got a huge cheering section and family that come to every game.  How many people are you expecting and what has that level of support meant to you throughout the season?  
JA MORANT: As of right now, I have like 15 coming.  I know most people don't get the support from families.  Sometimes their families can't make it in, and just with me being nine hours from Murray State and probably further from here, just to have my family come, it just feels good and I just appreciate it.   
 Q.  Ja, your national profile has really risen here this year.  I'm curious kind of how you've tried to deal with that and just what you think about all of the extra attention you're getting, the magazine articles, ESPN and all that stuff, what's that been like?  
JA MORANT: It's something I'm not used to.  I come from being under the radar.  My coaches, my teammates, really helped me with it.  They haven't looked at me any different since I guess my name started to get out there.  And my parents, I give most of the credit to them for keeping me level headed.   
 Q.  Ja, you started generating a lot of buzz at the Chris Paul camp in the summer.  What do you remember about that experience?  I know Markus Howard was there.  Did you get to interact with him after that experience?  
JA MORANT: Markus actually was the first person I talked to.  We had a meeting that night when we got there.  I sat at the table with him and had conversations with him.  The experience was great, just being there with Chris Paul and other NBA players, just to learn some things from them.  It was good.   
 Q.  Ja, just coming from -- lightly recruited as you were, to on this stage now, what have you thought of the whole journey to get here and what that's been like for you?  
JA MORANT: I say it's been rough.  Like you said, coming from being overlooked in high school, and not receiving that much attention, there was times I questioned myself:  Was I good enough?  And now it's just my hard work is paying off and it feels good.   
 Q.  Ja, I wanted to follow up on the Chris Paul camp question.  What were your impressions of Markus Howard at that time?  I know he's been injured a little bit lately; in February he got injured.  What do you expect from him.  So two questions:  What do you expect from him tomorrow and what were your impressions of him at camp?  
JA MORANT: I expect a lot from Markus tomorrow.  He had a couple 50-point games.  He's a great scorer, and we just going to go out there and try to play our defense and contain him.  I saw that at Chris Paul camp he was able to get up and down a little bit and he score the ball very well.   
 Q.  Shaq, the OVC was so good this year.  Belmont again with the win last night.  How much from the league helped you get ready tomorrow?  
SHAQ BUCHANAN: I say, it probably was a tough league.  Even though it was a major, it was hard playing those teams twice a year and had to change offense or your defense, you got to go do.  Though, we did, it was tough but we grinded it out.   
 Q.  Real quick, can you guys talk a little bit about just how the experience from last year in San Diego against West Virginia has prepared you, perhaps, for the match-up tomorrow against Marquette?  
SHAQ BUCHANAN: I would say last year, it was our first time, so guys are happy to be there.  But this year with me and Ja and Brion, we have the focus that we can go far in this tournament.  We have the team to do it, and I have all of the confidence we have the team to do it.  We'll see how we do Thursday.   
JA MORANT: Like he said, our first year coming here, we was a little excited.  I say probably a little bit nervous.  This being our second year, we're a little bit more comfortable and ready to lead this team to go deep in the tournament.   
 Q.  I understand you're from the same hometown as Ray Allen.  I read your father was actually a high school teammate of his.  I wonder if that's the case, if you've gotten to know Ray at all, if he's been a sounding board or played any role in your life at all?  
JA MORANT: I really haven't spoke to Ray as much.  Him and my dad and my uncle are still close, so I get the chance -- I spoke with his mom a little bit.  But other than that, I really haven't.   
 Q.  Ja, one more about the camp with Markus.  You said he was one of the first guys you talked to.  Did you seek him out, or did you know him at all beforehand, or was it just a coincidence that he was one of the first guys you connected with there?  
JA MORANT: I think it was just coincidence.  We just happened to sit at the same table and just got to know each other.  He told me that he played at Marquette, and after that, we was just talking throughout the camp, and now we play against each other tomorrow, so...   
 Q.  Did you stay in touch?  
JA MORANT: Yeah, we do stay in touch.   
 Q.  Ja, was there any interaction between you and Markus leading up to this game?  
JA MORANT: We spoke a little bit last night, just saying how it's crazy that we met at the Chris Paul camp and now both, obviously our names are out there, and now we get to play against each other.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT