SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2021
Yolett McPhee-McCuin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Tennessee 77, Ole Miss 72
 THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for Coach.
 Q. Can you talk us through what happened in the fourth quarter there, what the message was to the team throughout that attempt to come back?
 YOLETT McPHEE-McCUIN:   I don't know if you watched the game, but Shakira pulled her back.  They went on an 8-0 run.  The message, I tried to keep everybody -- it hurt us more than help.  She kept saying she was okay.  I made the decision to get her out of the game.
 If I could have a play back, I wouldn't have went zone.  I would have just got her out of the game.  I thought they hit a big three when we did go zone.  I have a lot of regrets about that right there.  Should have just gotten her out of the game because she was definitely hurt.
 Just trying to get us to fight.  We had opportunities.  J.B. had a three she missed.  Then Netta had a three she missed that could have changed the game.  But those were plays where it could have won the game.  They didn't lose the game.  But those plays could have won the game.
 Then I felt pretty confident about the end-line out-of-bounds play that got changed the last second.  That was a heartbreaker for us with that end-line out-of-bounds.  That's what happened.
 I mean, the kid has been carrying us the whole time.  It was a blow for my group when she went out.  I think just for a split second they weren't sure they can do it without her.
 Q. Spinning forward, do you think this is a team that has a post-season shot still even after the loss?
 YOLETT McPHEE-McCUIN:   Did you watch the game?
 Q. I did, yes.
 YOLETT McPHEE-McCUIN:   We were managing the game the whole time until Kira got hurt.  If we're not a NCAA tournament team, then who is?  With our COVID issues in the beginning of conference play, snowstorm issues, then continuously proving ourselves by beating quadrant one teams, then going on the road to Tennessee, losing by one, then tonight by five when our star player hurts her back to start the fourth quarter.  She's not out for the season.
 So absolutely we're an NCAA tournament team.  We're fun to watch.  We play a great style.  We're in the best league in the country.  If we get in, we're going to wreak havoc in the NCAA tournament.  I hope they consider all of these.
 We have more quadrant one wins than a lot of these conferences that they're saying are in.  They don't even have top-25 wins.  We have three of them versus teams that are in the top 16 in the country.  We definitely should be in.  And ask any SEC coach.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, coach.
 YOLETT McPHEE-McCUIN:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT