MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: FOLDS OF HONOR QUIKTRIP 500
February 24, 2019
Kurt Busch
Martin Truex, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Kurt Busch, 650th start and you're just as competitive as ever. Top 5 most of the race. How proud are you of this effort when you guys are just getting to know each other?  
KURT BUSCH: Yeah, I could say it wasn't anything fantastic or anything exciting, but it really was. To finish third in our second outing together and to run with the who's who of the sport, it just shows Ganassi has got the right stuff. Larson had a tough break. We caught a good break to get on the lead lap with a Logano and to race in the top 5 at the end.   
But all in all, for us to get gelled together, to learn what loose and tight was, but man, I just struggled in Turns 3 and 4 and that's where I got arm wrestled. They took us, but hey, we're top 5 in this kind of run. Thanks to Monster Energy. ComSurv was on our car this weekend. Chip was standing right there, and thanks to Felix and Rob, our owners, it's a third‑place finish, and we'll take it.   
   
 Q. Martin, second‑place finish but you're very frustrated. Why?  
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: It was just lap cars. It was a shame we got put in that position on that last restart. But that's the way the caution fell.   
Really proud of the team. Great rebound after last weekend. Bass Pro Shops, Tracker ATV's and Boats, thank all you guys, everybody at Toyota, everybody back at the shop with JGR. They built a great race car here, and man, I could taste that one. I really wanted that first Atlanta win.   
Just the 17 rode there in front of us forever and ever running the bottom, and I kept telling him I needed the bottom, and these cars are just so bad in dirty air that he was holding me up really bad. Once I got around him, I drove‑‑ got to the 2 car in two laps. I just needed one more.   
Unfortunate we had a great car, and like I said, the guys did a great job. Just a little upset. We had the best car. We probably should have won that one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT