U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2016
Dawson Armstrong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Perhaps a little tighter there at the end than you were wishing, but still you made it through.  How does it feel?
DAWSON ARMSTRONG: It feels very good.  I now know that not only can I play well in match play, I can play well in match play under stressful situations.  Even when my game isn't at its best, I feel like I can do whatever it takes to make sure I get through.  Then again, good players always find a way to win, and not always do good players win.  I mean, it's the game of golf.  It's the way it is.  Get good breaks, get bad breaks.  Hopefully this week will keep on giving me some good breaks, and I'm really looking forward to whatever I'm playing tomorrow.
Q. Talk me through quickly what happened on the final hole.  Struggled a little bit off the tee?
DAWSON ARMSTRONG: No, I thought I hit my great, it just flew about five yards too far short in the bunker, which you can't do out here.  You can't attack as much on hard holes like I'm used to, but that was -- so we both got in a little bit of trouble off the tee.  He punched out, and then as soon as I saw him kind of flare off his third shot, I knew I had it in me as long as I got the two-putt, as long as I got it on the green in two more shots and had a two-putt.
Yeah, it was a comforting experience as soon as I saw -- I didn't wish it on him, but it was very comforting to see --
Q. You knew you had the opportunity?
DAWSON ARMSTRONG: Yeah, I had an easier opportunity to close it out.  I'm exhausted.
Q. You were off your feet for two hours during the rain delay.  How do you deal with that in the midst of what's already a difficult match?
DAWSON ARMSTRONG: I'll tell you, I could feel myself being much more energized coming back out, a lot more confident in my game, how I was hitting the ball.  But yeah, I felt like I handled the time off really well, kind of got myself mentally focused on what was at hand, and it was -- I'm still really tired, though.  Two hours off doesn't mean you're still going to be wide awake at the end of the round.  It's a long day.  It's a gruesome battle every single match, and you've got to be mentally prepared for it every time.
Q. Potentially two matches again tomorrow, hopefully for you two matches again tomorrow.
DAWSON ARMSTRONG: Tomorrow is 36?  That's going to be a long day.  I'm hoping.
Q. It's a good problem to have.
DAWSON ARMSTRONG: It is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT