AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v RANGERS
October 11, 2011
Joel Zumaya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Few questions for Joel. 

 Q. Joel, first time being back at Comerica this year. How does it feel to come back here and just where you are? 
 JOEL ZUMAYA: It feels good. It's been since last year. I've been here since Saturday recapping with a lot of friends. A lot of people were pretty anxious to see me. 
 I wasn't planning to be up here, because I've been working out real hard in Lakeland every day. I'm honored to be here. That's why I'm here. It's fun to be back here. Especially in this situation that the team is in right now. Brings back a lot of memories. 

 Q. Is it kind of bittersweet and also does it make you remember '06? 
 JOEL ZUMAYA: You know, it chaps me in my butt a little bit that I'm not out here with the team. And I'm not capable of doing what I'm doing. 
 But it does bring a lot of memories. I've been watching the team since day one, watching all their games. I got the MLB package and all that. Just to recap this, it brought a lot of memories. Especially when they clinched it. I wish I was there. It looks like it would be fun. 

 Q. You said you've been back since Saturday? 
 JOEL ZUMAYA: Yes. 

 Q. Have you seen many fans since then and have you gotten a sense for sort of the special places you still hold for a lot of them? 
 JOEL ZUMAYA: Yeah, man. It started on the airplane right here. A lot of people figured out that I was in first class, and it was pretty cool, because it started this let them come to first class and say hello and greet them and give them some autographs while we were in the plane.    I've been staying down in Whitmore Lake. I have a good buddy that stays out there. There's not a lot of people there. I have had dinner at the restaurant there, and every night it's gotten a little more packed. I guess word got out that I'm around. It makes me feel special. It would feel better if I was actually here playing.

 Q. You mentioned you've been working out a lot in Lakeland. Can you bring us up to date how you're feeling and what your plans and hopes for the winter? 
 JOEL ZUMAYA: I want to say I feel terrible. Each time I say I feel good, I end up hurt. I've been in California for three months right after the surgery I went straight there in San Diego with my family. 
 I was closer with my family. I did therapy with a lady I've been doing therapy with the last couple of years. I ended up getting healthy there and ended up working out. I started my throwing program. I was cleared to throw by Dr. James Andrews. I went straight to Lakeland, started lifting those weights again. 
 The ball is coming out easier than I've ever thrown. I'm throwing with less effort than I used to. I mean, more velocity. I've been working on some pretty good change-ups and breaking balls. I won't have more than one pitch. Everything has fallen into place. I don't know where I'm going to end up next year. Hopefully it's here. I love this place. 
 I started -- I bloomed here. If everything goes the way I want it, I don't know, man, everything is great. 

 Q. Joel, you came in to the league with Justin Verlander. Just from what you've seen of him this year the way he's developed, what are your thoughts on what he's done? 
 JOEL ZUMAYA: I told you I've watched every game and he's taught me a lot. I'm learning from Justin. I kind of look at him as a big example. That guy is flat out tearing up the league this year. It was bound to come. 
 You could see that in Justin. Justin the way he takes the game and the way he takes the mound every time he's out there, he's so dominating. He has one thing in mind, that's to crush the other team. 
 Jesus Christ, I can't explain it. You guys all know. Justin is just overwhelming to watch. 

 Q. Joel, you mentioned you don't know where you're going to end up next year. You're going to be a free agent this winter, I believe. Have you talked with the Tigers at all about what happens from here? 
 JOEL ZUMAYA: No, I haven't. No one has spoken to me. I haven't spoken to -- my mind right now is focused on I have a couple of games coming up in instructs that I am going to throw in an inning or two. I've thrown five sides on the side already. Velo is all there and everything. 
 My mind right now is getting focused on maybe playing some winter ball, getting some innings in winter ball December and January and we'll go from there. 
 If the Tigers want to go ahead and talk and do something, I'm ready. I don't feel like going anywhere else. I started here and I wish I could end here. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT