RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2016
Jared du Toit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you sum up that experience of 18 holes on Sunday at the RBC Canadian Open?
JARED DU TOIT: Unbelievable.  The atmosphere they were providing was unbelievable.  Every tee box, like I said yesterday, every tee box, every green, everyone was clapping, hollering, "Go Canada!"  It was truly unbelievable. I'm on cloud nine right now.
Q. Was the experience of standing on the first tee today different than the last three days?  Were there more nerves?
JARED DU TOIT: I think to start, yeah.  I pulled the 3-wood out and I was thinking about pulling the driver, just better my chances of hitting the face, and went with the 3-wood.
You know, once I got the first hole out of the way, I felt pretty good.  I was just so excited to be out there and in the final group in the atmosphere.  I really wasn't thinking too much about my score or anything.
Q. Were you able to keep it together, just your emotions, as it was clear maybe it wasn't going to be the same day as it had been others, and how do you keep it together in that way?
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, I don't know if you guys -- I'm sure you guys saw the round, but kind of hit it pretty bad all day.  I just kind of got up-and-down from everywhere.  Made a lot of putts.  Honestly got a lot out of my round.  So to not have my best stuff and still shoot under par out here, final round of the Canadian Open, feels pretty good.
Q. If somebody had said to you coming in here would you have got a Top-10 in a PGA TOUR event on Monday, what would you have responded?
JARED DU TOIT: I don't know what I would say.  Honestly I had no expectations coming into this week.  I thought maybe if I play well and make the cut -- I honestly didn't know.  To come out this week and play well, Top-10, feels really good.
Q. With you describe the emotion of walking off the 18th green to those cheers?  That was something special.
JARED DU TOIT: Obviously would have liked that putt to fall there.  That would have got them going pretty good.
It was awesome.  I probably could have shot a hundred out here and they would have been behind my back all day.  Honestly unbelievable.
Q. What did you learn about yourself this week?
JARED DU TOIT: I learned that I love playing on the PGA TOUR.  Especially Canadian Open, truly unbelievable, like I said.  Got to thank Golf Canada for the sponsor exemption, as well.  Yeah, I don't know what to tell you right now.  I'm lost for words.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT