RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2016
Jhonattan Vegas
Jared du Toit
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Welcome to the 2016 RBC Canadian Open trophy presentation.
To begin today's closing certify moan-s, I'd like to call to the mic, the president of Golf Canada, Roland Deveau.
ROLAND DEVEAU: I'd like to welcome everyone to the 107th playing of our RBC Canadian Open.  First, I'd like to thank Glen Abbey, ClubLink and the superintendent and his staff, Andrew Gyba for the great condition of this course.  Thank you.
As you can all appreciate, it takes many, many people to putt these tournaments on, and in Canada, we're very fortunate to have great staff and volunteers.  I'd like to thank Brent McLaughlin, our tournament director, all Golf Canada staff and also the tournament volunteer chair, Jim Clark.  And I think there was 1,800 volunteers for helping out this week.  You saw them all wearing yellow, and thank you very much for helping us put on this event.
Obviously we're very pleased to have with us this week RBC.  RBC is a great leader for us to run this event.  They have shown tremendous commitment to this championship and to the development of the sport of golf in Canada.  We thank them very much, and obviously we're very pleased that this week they were able to announce a renewal of their sponsorship of this great event for a further six years.
We'd also like to thank our corporate partners, Shaw and BMW and other partners who help us very much in putting this event on.  Thank you to all our corporate partners.  Thank you.
And finally, like to thank all the players who committed to playing this event this week.  We had a very nice -- it's great to have them here every year, and obviously it's great for us to congratulate Jhonattan Vegas in this great win today, so thank you very much.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks very much and now like to call up a legend in Canadian golf to present the low amateur award.  He's a two-time U.S. Amateur champion and a member of the Canadian golf of fame, Mr. Gary Cowan.  And of course the man of the week, the low amateur, Mr. Jared du Toit.
Jared, I don't know how put this week into words.  Another great walk up 18 here, a great ovation from the crowd.  I don't know what you were expecting this week, but how do you assess everything that has happened, this whirlwind of a week for Jared du Toit?
JARED DU TOIT: Unbelievable, in one word.  I think it's safe to say that this has been the best week of my life so far.  Not only golf-wise, but just meeting new people and having fun, meeting legends out here.  Got to meet some guys that I really looked up to growing up, and yeah, very honored to be here.
THE MODERATOR: So I guess the next question is:  You're still an amateur.  What's next for Jared du Toit?
JARED DU TOIT: The guy back there said it very well.  Fully planning on going back to Arizona State for another year.  Finish up the summer, play some more amateur tournaments.  You know, just have some fun.  Be a 21-year-old, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: One more time for the low amateur of the week, Jared du Toit.
Now it's time for the low Canadian of the week, and I'd like to call up the CEO of Golf Canada, Scott Simmons.
SCOTT SIMMONS: On behalf of Golf Canada, I'm happy to present the Rivermead Cup to this year's winner, ADAM HADWIN.
THE MODERATOR: I'm sure this never gets old for you, but as one of the 14 Canadians in the field this week, what's it like to come back to Canada and just represent the Maple Leaf on the flag?
ADAM HADWIN: It's always an honor to be back here.  It's just an honor and a privilege to play in front of you all, get the cheers.  A little awkward holding this with Jared playing so well this week.  He beat me by eight.  Not sure I should be holding this, but I'll accept it.  I carry the flag with pride wherever we play, and thank you.
THE MODERATOR: The low Canadian, ADAM HADWIN -- low pro.
Now I'd like to call up the president and CEO of RBC, Mr. Dave McKay.
DAVE McKAY: I know I speak on behalf of 80,000 employees around the world to say how proud we are to support this historic event, this great championship.  We've worked very hard with Golf Canada, with the PGA TOUR, to build a world-class event.
As you can see from the field that was here today and this week and the competition, the level of competition, that we certainly have a world-class golf competition right here in Canada.
As Roland mentioned, we are extremely delighted to announce that we have extended our sponsorship of the Canadian Open for another six years to 2023.  So a lot more great golf to come and we are very excited to present it.
I'd like to thank our fellow sponsors, all the volunteers who put enormous hours in to make this such a wonderful event for the fans.
And to the fans who came out and supported the golfers and the great Canadians here, thank you so much for cheering everybody on and creating a great feeling of competition and camaraderie among the golfers.
Roland, I'd like to you join me so we can present the 2016 Canadian Open Trophy to Jhonattan Vegas.
THE MODERATOR: Your second win on the PGA TOUR, your first since 2011.  How does this one compare, and did you ever think you would get back into this position?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Hello, Canada.  You know, obviously second win on TOUR, it's a little more gratifying.  In my case, the first one came probably a little sooner, and it took me a little bit of work to get the second one.  But I'm humbled and I'm honored to be your champion this year.
Thank you, guys.  Thank you, fans.  Thank you Dave McKay and Brent McLaughlin, the tournament director, for putting such a great event.  I love coming to Canada.  I have a lot of great friends and I feel like home here.  Thank you, I love you guys, and I hope to see you next year.
THE MODERATOR: I just have to ask you, too, some injuries that you battled through, especially in 2013.  Talk about what you had to go through and what it took to get back into the winner's circle.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I hurt my shoulder, left shoulder, which is tough.  It took me about a year to kind of get myself healthy enough to compete again.  So it was a battle coming back out of that.  I had to train hard, play hard, to just get myself to this level, and then just put myself in positions to try to win another golf tournament.
But like I said, I'm honored.  Every win on the PGA TOUR is awesome and I'm going to enjoy this one as much as I enjoyed the first one.
THE MODERATOR: Your 2016 RBC Canadian Open Champion, Jhonattan Vegas.
A big thank-you to the spectators and fans across the country.  We've had a great week and we look forward to seeing you back here again at Glen Abbey in 2017.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT