RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2016
Jared du Toit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Some 41 years before you were even born is the last time a Canadian won the National Championship, and here you are tomorrow with an opportunity to do that?  
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, feels good obviously.  Hope I can keep it going.   
 Q.  Tremendous eagle at the last.  You moved to Arizona State, you've played a lot of golf with Jon Rahm, we've seen the success he's had since he's turned pro.  Has that had an influence?  
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, definitely.  Seeing him day-in, day-out for a full year, and seeing what he's capable of, getting a look at what he does and what the PGA TOUR guys do.  It's awesome to see.  Not surprised at all that he's having a lot of success out here.  Trying to look up to him and follow suit.   
 Q.  Golf is a game of patience and perspective for most of the four and a half, five hours; but tomorrow you're playing for the biggest prize in your young career.  How will you keep your patience and perspective?  
JARED DU TOIT: I have no idea.  I've never been there.  But I'm looking forward to it.  I've never kind of been in this kind of pressure, this atmosphere before.  I'm here having fun and trying to go and play golf.  It hasn't set in so far but loving every minute of it.   
 Q.  The early bogey a set back, but you instantly bounced back with the tee shot.  
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, it was the perfect number for me.  I made a good swing and there was a little gust, so thought it might actually be a little short.   
 Q.  You seem to have relished the conditions and it has not phased you one little bit.  
JARED DU TOIT: There's still one round.  I'm playing well out here and I'm trusting my game right now.   
 Q.  Confidence in the iron play, the way these fairways have been running, how much much have you had to change your mind-set on this firm, fast course this week?  
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, a lot.  Day-to-day it's changed.  Even since the practice round to the first round, significant change.  You've got to change your mind-set a lot.  My caddie and I have done a great job of doing that.   
 Q.  What a way to finish, 40 feet for eagle at the last.  
JARED DU TOIT: Looked like I actually hit it a little too hard.  But dead center and you know, was pretty fired up about it.   
 Q.  How are you feeling about the final round challenge?  
JARED DU TOIT: Feeling pretty good.  I'm honestly just out here to have some fun and enjoy the atmosphere.  Obviously I want to play well tomorrow but it's kind of my first go at it.  Win or lose, I'm happy with the way this week's gone.   
 Q.  The fans, supporting you, home support.  What does that mean --  
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, a lot going on upstairs, that's for sure.  Just trying to stay level out here and take it shot by shot.  Like I said, have fun.  That's all it's about.   
 Q.  Tell me the emotions when you saw that on the line and it's looking good to go in.  
JARED DU TOIT: I haven't seen my reaction yet.  I followed it in the hole and knew it had a chance but when it disappeared, that's the biggest putt of my career so far.  Very happy with the outcome.   
 Q.  I know you didn't hit the shot you wanted from the green, from that distance, a little disappointed, but it turns out pretty good for you.  
JARED DU TOIT: Honestly I wasn't too disappointed with the shot.  It is kind of tough downwind, really firm, and I was in a bit of the rough there.  I was just happy to be putting, and yeah, hit a good one putt.   
 Q.  What did it feel like to have all the guys singing your National Anthem walking up to scoring?  
JARED DU TOIT: That was very cool.  All day, they have been unbelievable.  Just the atmosphere, walk to go each green, walking to each tee box, "Go, Canada," it's been an unbelievable week of golf so far.   
The putter has been hot all week and I've been chipping it nicely.  Honestly ball-striking wasn't there today but I fought through and ground out pretty hard.   
 Q.  You have a good chance to be in the final group.  Will it be a long night for you or a fast night?  
JARED DU TOIT: Oh, definitely a long night.  I'm already expecting that right now.  So you know, like I said, take it day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute.  Win or lose, I'm happy I'm here.   
It's been a fairy tale so far.  Hopefully I can keep it going.   
 Q.  What was it like, the moment on 18, huge gallery and you sink that eagle putt.  
JARED DU TOIT: I said earlier, probably has not set in yet, but that's probably the biggest putt of my career, just atmosphere-wise.  Unbelievable feeling.   
 Q.  Can you bring this home tomorrow?  That's the big question everyone wants to know.  
JARED DU TOIT: I have no idea.  I've been surprising myself all week.  You know, if I play good, solid golf, get a good night's sleep, do all the little things right, yeah, I like my chances.   
 Q.  Tea again this morning or coffee?  
JARED DU TOIT: None of the above.  None of the above.  Probably should have went with some tea for better-ball striking.  Can't win them all.   
 Q.  On top of everything, the crowd impromptu started singing "Oh, Canada"  after your putt.  Describe that moment walking up here.  
JARED DU TOIT: Unbelievable.  Like I was saying earlier, the atmosphere out here has been unbelievable, walking to each green, each tee box, everybody high-fiving, hooting and hollering, "Go, Canada," mostly from Canadians everywhere.  It's been unbelievable.   
 Q.  One of the stories here of this 2016 RBC Canadian Open, for you, I need to start the end of your round, making eagle, "Oh, Canada" starts coming up from the crowd.  What has this experience been like, and that particular moment?  
JARED DU TOIT: Unbelievable.  Can't say anything else but that word.  It's truly been a dream so far, and seeing that putt go in, was just a great cherry on top to the round.   
 Q.  How do you maintain your poise in the moment and not only become the story, but potentially become the champion.  
JARED DU TOIT: A lot of golf left.  My caddie and I have been doing the right thing all week.  If I can continue to do what I've been doing, I like my chances out there.   
Obviously final round, there's going to be different stuff going on, kind of different pressure, but I'm excited for the challenge.  Like I said, I'm just happy to be here still.  This has been a fairy tale so far, and hopefully I can keep it going.   
 Q.  How do you explain the resilience, because it could have gone bad yesterday after the triple on 2, and yet you bounce back with three birdies.  It could have gone bad early on today, and yet you're 2-under for the day.  Where does the resilience come from?  
JARED DU TOIT: Putter, honestly.  I've just been rolling the ball great all week and saving myself.  I've hit some pretty mediocre chips, some pretty mediocre shots into greens.  Bailed myself out a lot this week with the putter and hopefully I can line up the ball-striking a little bit better tomorrow, but still like putter pretty hot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT