RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2016
Jared du Toit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty exciting position you're in right now.  How does it feel?
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, feels pretty good.  Definitely excited for tomorrow.  Game feels good, so I'm excited to keep it going.
Q. How was the up-and-down part of that day?  You had some ups and some downs, but you never lost control it seemed like.
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, taking an 8 always hurts.  But I just kind of stayed patient.  The putter heated up at the right time, and yeah, it was all good. Nothing but good things to say.
Q. Did you have any idea that you were tied for the lead at that point?
JARED DU TOIT: I knew DJ was, what, 7-under.  But there was no like -- it was just a bad swing or whatever.  Made a fried egg in the bunker, is never good either, and following it up with not it getting up-and-down adds up pretty quick.
Q. How do you keep yourself from getting down on yourself at that point after making triple?
JARED DU TOIT: I've got to thank my caddie because I was pretty down.  I was pretty mad about the way things panned out.  But he kind of told me just keep going and get back to the game plan and it worked out.
Q. Who is caddying for you?
JARED DU TOIT: Sean Burke.
Q. Should we be surprised at this?  Are you surprised at this?
JARED DU TOIT: I mean, I'm a little surprised.  Like I know I could play well, but yeah, like on this stage with the best guys in the world, it definitely feels pretty good.
Q. Are you nervous at all?
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, you know, I didn't have a lot of expectations coming in.  So to kind of vault up the leaderboard caught me a little bit off guard.
Everything from now is just creme on top.  Like I had a lot of fun so far in these few days, and expectations, you know, you guys are the ones that put expectations on.  No, just excited to go out there tomorrow and keep having fun.
Q. Another guy at -6, Jon Rahm, how much fun is that, the two of you at the top of the leaderboard?
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, I'm playing out of my mind and I still can't beat him; that was school, that was last semester, just in a nutshell right there.  You know, excited to give it a run tomorrow.
Q. You mentioned going to Arizona State prepared you for playing in these kind of conditions.  Did you ever think playing in the desert would prepare you for playing in Canada?
JARED DU TOIT: No.  But it's definitely true.  The firm, fast, windy conditions are what I've been accustomed to playing golf tournaments and obviously practicing down there, too.
Q. Considering the stage here in Canada, have you ever had a roller coaster of a round like that far as emotions go?
JARED DU TOIT: Not like that one.  There was a lot of highs there and there was certainly some lows.  That's definitely one for the memory bank.
Q. You said Sean picked you up.  You obviously gave it a shake and came in really strong.  What did he say to you?
JARED DU TOIT: He just kind of, you know, theoretically kind of cracked me in the head and said, hey, get your head back in the game and stick to the game plan and keep doing what you're doing.
Q. What did you do this morning?
JARED DU TOIT: I was at Timmy Horton's.  Yeah, just hung out listened to music, watch TV and tried to not think about it.
Q. What will you do tomorrow?
JARED DU TOIT: Probably the same thing.  Who knows.
Q. Tim Horton's?
JARED DU TOIT: Hopefully.  I could go for some Tim's.
Q. What kind of coffee was it?
JARED DU TOIT: I actually went with tea this morning, yeah.  It was a bit of a change up but loved it.  Might have to do it again today.
Q. What kind of music?
JARED DU TOIT: I go a bit of everything.  Sometimes if I'm too high, I'll get something to slow the pace down a little bit and vice versa.
Q. Are you too high right now?
JARED DU TOIT: I don't know.  I guess we'll find out, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT