RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 21, 2016
Jared du Toit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not too many people can say they eagled 17.  
JARED DU TOIT: So I was pretty disappointed with myself for not birdieing 16 there and followed it up with a very poor drive on 17.  But then had a good number.  Caddie gave me a good yardage.  Just had to hit a good one shot.  Came out just how I wanted.  I didn't even know it went in.  Just somebody yelled by the green and said yeah, it's in.  It was awesome.   
 Q.  What were you expecting from yourself today?  Did you know this was in you?  
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, I think my start surprised me a bit.  There's definitely birdie holes out there but I was birdieing a couple holes that are I think kind of tougher around here.  So yeah, had a really good start.  Kind of gave it away on 6 or 7 there.  I don't know what hole it was.  Yeah, kind of fought hard all day and finished up with a couple nice ones.   
 Q.  Where does today rank for you as a golfer, and just an overall experience?  
JARED DU TOIT: Well, it's the first time I've had to sign autographs after rounds.  That was awesome.  Definitely a lot of fun.   
It's definitely in the top three kind of rounds I've played my career, just kind of feeling-wise and atmosphere.  Yeah, definitely happy to get in the clubhouse.   
 Q.  How do you maintain your composure knowing you're having such a great round, you're doing better than more experienced players; how do you keep it together mentally?  
JARED DU TOIT: Just keep plucking away.  Just talked over every shot with my caddie.  He's confident over every shot and yardage and everything and was able to play good, confident golf.   
 Q.  Who is caddying for you?  
JARED DU TOIT: Sean Burke.  He's a local guy.  He teaches out here.  He's seen the course a few times.   
Played it twice on Monday and Tuesday.   
 Q.  What's the game plan tonight to follow this up?  
JARED DU TOIT: I think just get some good night rest.  I don't think I tee off until like 2:30 tomorrow.  Shouldn't have no sleep as an excuse.  So yeah, just come out here and keep doing what I'm doing, get in a little bit of work after the round today and be ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  How is this course playing, dry, baked out?  
JARED DU TOIT: Yeah, like you said, very dry and baked out, like some of the drives are just running out, outrageously.  You've really got to adjust, and I think we did that well.   
Going to Arizona State, I've played in a lot of dry conditions, so I think the conditions today were kind of in my favor.   
 Q.  You're on the Canadian Amateur team and won last month, great start here; could the summer be going any better for you?  
JARED DU TOIT: No, I don't think so.  Yeah, it's been an awesome summer so far.  Looking forward to keep that going.   
 Q.  Do you remember the last time you holed out from a fairway bunker?  
JARED DU TOIT: I don't.  I was probably -- I have no idea.  Way back then.  Probably not even back then, I don't know.   
 Q.  You said you hit an 8-iron?  
JARED DU TOIT: It was 8-iron.  I think we played it about 150 yards, but it was a hurting wind, so I figured, throw it back a little bit.  I was actually thinking about 9.  Caddie talked me into 8.  Obviously that worked out.   
 Q.  You came into 18 obviously a little pumped up and smashed that drive a long, long way and you hit to the middle of the green.  Seems like that potentially has a long walk written on it, knowing what you've done, what you're doing, what that putt could do.  How do you stay composed and keep focused when that is all out there?  
JARED DU TOIT: I think the biggest thing was the approach shot.  The wind was swirling and 18 is never an easy approach shot.  So it helped that I had a gap wedge in but still, wind swirling, you don't have -- like I'm used to pulling out my Bushnell and shooting everything.  So there's a little bit of uncertainty.   Just talked to my caddie about making a good swing.  Once I knew my approach shot, I knew the hard part was over.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT