WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2019
Duan Yingying
Viktoria Kudermetova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DUAN-KUDERMETOVA/Mertens-Sabalenka
7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Really good week for you, a title together. What do you make of the performance tonight and your win?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA: We play first time together. I think we did a great job during the whole week. When I came here, Yingying need to play with another person. She text me she's not coming because she's injury. I found Yingying. For me, it's very good. I very happy to play with her this week. Maybe we play next time also together.
It's unbelievable week.
Q. Did you know Yingying well?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA: No, I not know her well. I knew in draw she play with Saisai. I text her. I say, If you want to, we try to play together. She say, Yeah, yeah, try.
Q. You had a really good week in singles with a win over Bencic. What does this week mean for you?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA: Of course, I have really good matches here because I play against Belinda, not first time. Last time I lost her. Now she's a top-10 player. When I step on the court, I try to do my best tennis.
In the first set, it's not go so well, but I try to play every point. After that I winning the match, I am so happy. The week here for single and for double, it's very good.
Q. What do you think is the key that made your partnership work so well?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA: In the doubles?
Q. Yes.
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA: I think we try to play very aggressive, not to do some very strict thing, play aggressive, good serve, try to play good volleys. Try to play our game.
Also, Aryna have every day many, many matches. She's little bit tired. We try to play more on Aryna. I think they good team. They have really good week here and during this season. They play so well.
Q. This is the first time you are playing doubles together. How did you two communicate with each other?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA: No, I think I have power, she have power. If we are play together, we try to combine this power together and try to do, like, fight every ball.
Q. You and Aryna spoke at the net after the match.
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA: Yeah, I say sorry. Sometimes I hit on her. I say sorry. She say no, no, no worry. That's it.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. A similar question, what do you think works for both of you for the first time you both work together?
DUAN YINGYING: It was quite coincidental that we partnered together. Saisai was too tired to play the Wuhan Open. I didn't get her text until quite recently. I didn't think a lot because we need some time to get to know each other.
But she's a powerful player. On court we both focus on our offense, so we play an aggressive game. It's beyond my expectations that we did really well this week.
Q. During the French Open, you were playing the doubles final together with Saisai. What do you think you have improved compared with Roland Garros?
DUAN YINGYING: I think I didn't think so much about the winning or losing. I don't have much pressure now. I'm enjoying each point and each game.
Q. When you were giving the speech at the French Open, you said you couldn't think about what to say.
DUAN YINGYING: Yeah, at Roland Garros I was very excited. I didn't know what to say. But now I'm very relaxed so I can say anything.
Q. To win the doubles championship here at Wuhan, how do you feel?
DUAN YINGYING: I enjoyed playing here at Wuhan. I come every year. I like the fans here. They're very passionate. Every time we play, we see fans cheering for us. I like that. That will bring me much positive energy. I enjoy everything here at Wuhan.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT