NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WILD v MIGHTY DUCKS
May 14, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mike, with Minnesota it seems like they score more and play better on the road.  Is that something you would be thinking about or you're aware of going into tonight?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: We just know that when we don't play as well as we can play that we respond, and, you know, just by reading their comments, it's pretty evident they didn't feel they had as good a game, too, as they would like to be.  They have been a real resilient time.  Why wouldn't they be here today?  We feel we play well at home.  We felt we learned a good lesson last round in Game 3 when we got beat by Dallas, and so our preparation has to be equal to the opportunity. 
 
Q.  Mike, there has been a lot of talk about Giguere's play, but little talk about the defense.  Comment on the strong play of the defense?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: I think the first thing is when Giguere gets compliments, our team takes it like everybody is getting a compliment.  The defense is about five people on the ice being in the right places committed to one another, and obviously, your goaltender being there.  Giguere has been great.  Our defense has been a group of six and it has to be excellent against the team that skates and manages the pucks so well.  I really feel, against this quick Minnesota team, if you don't manage the puck in the neutral zone or offensive zone, they're coming at you at 100 miles an hour, so you have to slow them down. 
 
Q.  On the heels of that, it's not often the leading scorer in the playoffs gets benched, at least temporarily, as Gaborik did the other night. Can you talk about that.
 
MIKE BABCOCK: We try to be aware when he's on the ice.  The how old is this guy?  He's a young guy, what is he, 22?  The first thing is, just like us, they're in the process.  They're trying to become the model franchise in the National League.  That's what we're trying to do here.  You make decisions to help your team win at the moment.  You make decisions, big picture, as well when you're a coach dealing with a young guy.  All he's done is he's made sure he's ready to go tonight.  It will be a challenge for us.  They've got a lot of guys who can fly out there and got a lot of guys who can handle the puck down low.  Our focus is going to be on doing what we have to do.  That's what we have to do to be successful and yet be aware of the nuances of the opposition. 
 
Q.  Mike, you talked a little bit before about how your team played a little bit too loose at home against Dallas.  Has your team dealt with that so far, or has it not been that much of a problem?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: I didn't say we played loose against Dallas.  I said we played loose in Game 3.  When you come back home and people are patting you on the back, you get ahead of yourself.  This is about process.  People laugh when I say this, but this is the most important game of our year.  We have to prepare that way.  To me, you know, preparation has to equal to the opportunity.  The opportunity is real good, and we know they're going to be real hungry, they're real talented, real quick.  We have to be ready. 
 
Q.  Mike, throughout the year, there has been a lot of talk about these one-piece sticks having problems and breaking, and obviously it led to a key goal the other night.  The players love them because they can shoot harder, faster and more accurate with them, and they obviously, you know, can do that.  Is there a trade-off in what you can  -- is there a risk because there has been so many broken sticks?  Is the trade-off worth it in your eyes?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: First off, it's been a number of times in the playoffs.  Keith Carney had a wide open net for a lay-up against Dallas.  The stick fell apart, so no one focuses on that because it's in the offensive zone.  Those things happen all the time.  I think  -- I have been through this with my players 100 times.  They just turn you right off.  The sticks are puck rejectors, and it's not just that they break.  Every time it hits someone's stick, it bounces three feet, so, what's the trade-off?  You can wire the puck unbelievably, but you don't get the chance you've got because it's not with you anymore.  I call them puck rejectors.  The guys laugh.  They're professional.  They know what they're doing. They check their sticks. 
 
Q.  Any change in the lineup?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  Not that I'm aware of at this point.  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT