NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: PENGUINS v RED WINGS
June 9, 2009
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVID KEON: Questions for the coach. 

 Q. Jonathan Ericsson got to hoist the Cup here last year. Obviously, he didn't play. Can you talk about how he's evolved this postseason, and how nice is it to have a guy like Nick being a calming influence in the situation like the one we have tonight? 
 COACH BABCOCK: Well, he's come a long, long way, obviously. And his development, I think they've done a good job. When he came here, if I'm not mistaken, he was a forward. And they kept him in the minors for a long period of time, even though the coach wanted him to come sooner. By the time he got here, he was a good player. 
 As you can tell by watching him, he's going to be a good player for a long time. He's a good first pass, he can play against big people, he's a good body, good reach, good on the penalty kill. He probably has more offensive flair than he's shown this far. 
 But for guys like that in the league, like Cheli and Nick and those guys around you, to talk to you and help you watch where they put their stick and their feet, and how they handle themselves professionally on and off the ice, I think those are invaluable things for a kid. 

 Q. You've talked a couple of times about not being thrilled with your starts in Game 3 and Game 4 here. What do you feel you need to do different off the start of games? What is a sign to you behind the bench that okay, we're into this thing right off the bat, what do you notice? 
 COACH BABCOCK: Just make a play. When you're banging the puck and giving it back to them, they're coming back at you. You get it, and you bang it back and you get it back to them, that's not a good sign. When you make a play, and execute and come through the neutral zone with speed and get on their "D", that's a real good sign. So they're going to push tonight right off the hop. For sure, they have to. And we have to respond to that. And the best way to do that is to execute and to play in their zone. 

 Q. What is the sense you're getting from the guys from being on the plane and maybe at dinner last night, comparing it to a year ago when you were in this position? You obviously feel that the confidence is there? 
 COACH BABCOCK: Yeah, but I would be shocked if they're not confident as well. I think when you're playing at this level at this time of the year, you're playing on a real good team with a real good belief system. We just believe in ourself. We believe we have the game and experience and the skill level, and the drive to get the job done. 
 Now when you've got two teams that believe the same thing, it doesn't workout. 

 Q. I just wondered about Darren Helm. Last year he was in the playoffs but spent most of the year back in Grand Rapids. Do you think that with what he's done this year that he's in the NHL to stay now? 
 COACH BABCOCK: I would think so. I mean, we're just in a situation Cap-wise, obviously, that we couldn't keep him. And we were up so close to the Cap that we couldn't use those guys at all this year except when people got hurt. They'll be on our team next year. We're going to have some lineup changes over the summer. It's just the way the business is, and so there will be room for guys like Helmer. 

 Q. I know you have other things on your mind right now, but do you feel for the fans in Detroit who can't go to Joe Louis tonight and watch the game like it is? 
 COACH BABCOCK: I don't understand the dynamic of all that stuff. That makes no sense to me. But to me we're all in the selling the game business. And the more people that can see it, the better off you are. I think Chicago Blackhawks might be the greatest example of that. 

 Q. You guys are 10-1 when you score first. Why do you think that is, and how important do you think that will be tonight? 
 COACH BABCOCK: Yeah, I mean, well, it's important if we do it. It's not important if we don't. Second part of that is I think in the regular season if I'm not mistaken, the stats are like 80% the team that scores first. So it's always important to get started on time. 
 Catch-up hockey is losing hockey. You're in control of much more, you're in control of the match-ups whether you're on the home or road. You're ahead when you're in control. Playing people the right amount of time, you don't have to shorten, you don't have to -- you can just let the game evolve and come to you. So that's why you want to get started. 

 Q. What do you look forward to or what do you enjoy most about nights like tonight? 
 COACH BABCOCK: Well, it's not just the night. It's the whole experience. It's being involved in it. It's the opportunity we have together as a group. You know, we've done a lot of winning in Detroit. And we enjoy it. But just how tight your team gets. The same thing would be happening for the Pittsburgh guys. 
 You become a real tight group because you're team building all the time. I've said this before. Lots of people think you go through little activities for team building. To me, you get the puck out on the wall for a teammate, and you'll lie in front of a shot for a teammate. You do the things you do. That's what team building is. And you get tighter as you win more and you do more good things together. 
 You know, I think these are life-long memories you're forging right now, and that's what makes it so much fun.

 Q. Why do you think it is under these circumstances your team steps up when they have an opportunity to close out a team? 
 COACH BABCOCK: Yeah, I don't have the answer to that. But we had a chance to closeout teams last year in Game 5 at home a couple of times and didn't do it. So I think we're going to be prepared tonight. I really believe that. I think we're going to play a good game. You want it to go your way. There's no guarantees. 
 But I just think with the leadership we have, the experience we have, and just the overall skill level of our group, and as long as he we stick to our plan, we have an opportunity. 

 Q. Obviously, Pavel provided a very emotional lift. What did he do physically to make you a better hockey club? 
 COACH BABCOCK: He hung on the puck. He made plays and gave probably Zetterberg some more room. Allowed us to move Franzen off that line. Made us a deeper team. 
 All those things, when you lose one guy, you don't think about it, but it effects everyone, because now people are in the wrong slot. Then suddenly people that score for you on the third line don't score anymore, because they've got a different center. All those things especially when it's a star player like Pavel effects your team. We feel really fortunate that the other guys were able to pull it together and do a good job to buy us some time to get him back. 
 I think he'll be a much better hockey player today. He looked good in practice yesterday. Looked like he was moving. That's just a confidence thing. He got through the game, felt good about himself, and it should help us tonight.

 Q. Same lineup as last game, no new injuries or anything like that? 
 COACH BABCOCK: Yeah, that's our plan. We'll see what happens here tonight. The guys that any questions we had skated this morning and felt good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT