NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v RED WINGS
May 20, 2009
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mike Babcock. 

 Q. Originally this was scheduled to be a noon practice. Was the change to give them the day off? Did they earn it?
 MIKE BABCOCK: Need the day off. It was never scheduled in my mind. Doesn't really matter what was on the schedule. We're going to take a day for sure. We would always take a day off here. 
 I really thought that the previous series looked to me like it caught up to us last night. I think Game 1, I was worried about Game 1, but I should have been thinking a little better. It's a new series. You're excited. It's a Sunday afternoon. So that energy kind of carries you through a little bit. I didn't think last night we had much. 
 You know, just like you people are covering, the playoffs are real short if you don't win, and it's forever if you keep winning. 
 You know, it's a grind. We were in a real grind last series. I thought it took a toll or it looked like we didn't have the pop we needed to be as good as we could be last night. 

 Q. Which way do you see it more, that Chicago played arguably their best game, but they couldn't win, or that you guys didn't play your best game and still won?
 MIKE BABCOCK: Well, I think there's two sides to that. I thought that they were better than us at the start. We had them down. They had 19 shots in the first. We have them down, I think, eight scoring chances in the first period. Okay. And so it took us a while to get going. They had a five-on-three. Let's not get carried away. You get chances in that area. But they were better than us. I thought they were engaged more. They were physically better. They were better on the wall. 
 And then I thought the game got going. For the longest period of time, they had nine shots through a ton of time, like 32 minutes or something not much was going on for them. We were up 2-1. The clock was just ticking away. 
 We never had a scoring chance in the third period. 16:52, we had a scoring chance. We never had a scoring chance till they scored, then suddenly we got the next six. So, I mean, part of that's managing the clock. Part of that is playing the game, the way it goes. 
 But I thought they were better. I didn't think we were as good. So it's a fine line. And I think hunger's a big part of that. 
 Now, the next step is we go to Chicago. They're a young team. They got a great crowd, a lot of enthusiasm in the building. They'll be thinking they'll play better. Now we got to go win a real hard Game 3.

 Q. How well did Kronwall and Stuart play throughout the playoffs?
 MIKE BABCOCK: Stuey, he's an interesting fella. I've known him forever. He was a great junior. He came in the National League, I think the third pick overall. I think people perceived him to be a power-play-type guy. That's not what he is. He's just a physical guy. 
 At playoff time, he engages to a new level. I don't want to say he's not into it during the regular season, but there's obviously a different level at playoff time. 
 Guys who can play like him and just keep on banging, and his oxygen tank doesn't seem to wear out, makes a big difference. He gives Kronwall room. And then Kronwall, when he's on top of his game, is a headhunter out there, and then is real good offensively, walked in last night, and hit the bar. 
 So they're a good package for us. They give us an interesting -- it doesn't have to be Raf and Nick against the best guys, if they're bigger and more physical, it can easily be Kronwall and Stewart. 

 Q. Talk about Osgood. He's been so consistent right from the start of the playoffs. What has been the major difference. Is it more focus or what do you say there from the regular season that's enabled him to be so much better?
 MIKE BABCOCK: Ozzie had good numbers in his last 10 games of the regular season. So we've been through this a hundred times this year. Obviously, he wasn't engaged early. No different than the rest of our team. Just when you're the last line of defense, it's very obvious. 
 You know, I think it probably got away from him. He battled back. He's a confident guy in his ability. He's played real well for us in the playoffs. I thought Game 4 in Columbus, he wasn't like he's been in every other game. Every other game he's been solid. 
 The difference in most games and last night's game, that's our first even game. Like, for us, it's interesting, the perception is, we can out shoot Anaheim, I don't know by how many. If they beat us, it's a good game. If we win a game and the shots are even and the play is even, it's like we stole one. You know, I don't know what you're supposed to do. 
 But, I mean, Ozzie was good last night. Gave us a chance. Byfuglien fell on him there the one time. Kind of pretended like Kronwall knocked him in and fell on him. I thought he didn't get involved in that kind of crap, just played the game. 

 Q. After the lockout, what have you seen from Samuelsson? Why do you think he's been able to blossom and become the player he is after coming to Detroit?
 MIKE BABCOCK: I think he's comfortable. Sammy is a comfort guy. Mikael Samuelsson is as nice a person as there is. He needs to be comfortable. I think a lot of people are like that, but Sammy's really one of those. 
 It took Sammy a while to find his way in the National League, but he's a good player, he can be good offensively, good defensively. But, I mean, he's a huge body, can shoot the puck a ton. 
 Sammy's one of these guys that's a way better player than he believes. If he had the confidence in himself that some of these other guys do, he'd be a high-end NHL player. Right now he's just a good NHL player. 

 Q. Have you talked to him about that?
 MIKE BABCOCK: Just like that. We've had that same conversation I don't know how many times. He knows all this. But he scored big goals for us. Last night was one of those games. Sammy had a big-time turnover on the penalty kill. When he came out of the box on the penalty kill, it cost us a goal. But he was able to answer back by forcing Campbell for a turnover. 
 You know, he just has the ability, has a rocket of a shot. We're always on him to shoot the puck more. He's a huge man. Absolutely a monster. So he can be real physical when he wants to be. He can really skate. 
 I think both these teams, in my opinion, have a ton of depth. The depth makes it hard for you to handle just because they can keep coming many different ways. And I think that's what happens for us. Whether it be Hudler or Fil or Sammy or Helm, there's lots of different players that can contribute. 

 Q. You talked about having to push through last night, grind. Do you get anything out of that when you get forced to an overtime at home, you pick up the energy, going on the road now?
 MIKE BABCOCK: What happens is you get up today you're up 2-0. But for us now it's all about three. We need the next one. All these series are a race to four. You got to get prepared to play a better game. 
 In my opinion, and I've said it already, this is exactly like Game 2 was against Anaheim. They were better than us in the game early. They were more engaged. So we have to be better than that. And we're gonna go to their building. They'll be all jacked up, like I said. So we have to to make sure we're ready, poised, ready to compete. 

 Q. Mike, you mentioned last night after the game, you were probably looking at putting Maltby in the game. Have you figured out your lineup for that game?
 MIKE BABCOCK: No. I'll just avoid that till tomorrow. 

 Q. I know you've talked about this before, but you can obviously put together a lot of different lines. What is it you like about Hudler, Sammy and Fil together? 
 MIKE BABCOCK: Well, Fil is a great skater. Sammy shoots the pill. Huds can shoot it a ton, too. He just doesn't want to. Wants to pass all the time. They seem to be a good combination. Fil and Huds played together in the minors. Actually I really like Cleary on that line to tell you the truth, gives them a net front presence. Cleary has played real well on his line, so we've just gone that way. 
 But, you know what, at this time of year, you got to play with whoever you get the opportunity with, and you got to outplay the guy across from you. It's that simple. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT