NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DUCKS v RED WINGS
May 22, 2007
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JAMEY HORAN:  Questions for Coach.   
  
  Q.  First off, any lineup changes tonight.  Todd Bertuzzi going to play tonight, that kind of thing?   
 COACH MIKE BABCOCK:  I don't know.  Game-time decision.  It's basically can a guy go, can a guy not go.   
  
  Q.  Anything to get off your chest before tonight?   
 COACH MIKE BABCOCK:  No, we're excited.  One of the things I find is as the rounds go, and not the Finals, but as the rounds go, I always find there's a long time between games.  It seems like forever.  After you've flushed it out, lets get going and let's play the game.  We think we've been playing well.  We're looking forward to it.  Let's go out there and play.   
 There's a big difference between being loose and driving and tight and tentative.  So let's make sure we know what to do.   
  
  Q.  In your experience is there something to be said for having only one chance to survive versus another team having a couple of chances to close out?   
 COACH MIKE BABCOCK:  Well, you know I guess the way I look at it is for us we know where we're at.  I mean, for them, they think they're at home.  There's ways to paint the picture nice each way.   
 You know, because we like the way we're playing, the situation's a good one.  You just gotta make good on it.  Now, I mean, can maybe worrying about, gee, if they don't get it done they gotta go back to our building?  Absolutely.  I hope so.   
  
  Q.  How important is a long playoff run on like this to some of the younger players on your team.  I think of Kyle Quincey, but you have a number of them?   
 COACH MIKE BABCOCK:  Well, Quince, he's not supposed to be here.  So I look at it more for Hudler, Filpulla, Kopecky.  Kopecky hurt all year and was able to come back and play some games.  Hudler got a chance to play at the start and got scratched.  Those are ugly, tough messages and hard to take when you're a talented young guy like he is.  Filpulla is showing he's got a chance to be prime time.   
 When I coached junior hockey, we used to say they were two-for-one for a league game, because the development.  In the new NHL, where there's a cap, where development is almost sustained, you just gotta develop guys.   
 And we're real fortunate.  I mentioned Jimmy Nill's name yesterday.  We're real fortunate our guys have done a lot with a little there and that we have some kids.  And, to me, you're learning to play with pace.  You're learning to embrace playing at this time of the year.   
 You're seeing guys who know how to handle what it's all about, and the other thing you find out is you find out who you want in your organization and who you don't.  Pretty straightforward.   
 JAMEY HORAN:  Thanks, Coach.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT