NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 9, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Are you a speech-maker before a Game 7 or are you a guy that just let's the dressing room work it out for itself?
 
COACH BABCOCK: We're just going to do what we always do and same routine, we're going to go through our foundation.  It's going to be as boring as you can imagine.  Like I think this is 104 for us, plus the exhibition.  So when you think of trying to change her up all the time, that would get old and tough in a hurry.  So we'll just go with what works.  And I finally figured out what was happening IN this building:  We had the media station in the wrong place; now we have got it worked out.  (LAUGHTER). 
 

Q.   What are some of the memorable Game 7s in your past?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, I remember when I was in  
 Spokane, we scored the first goal in overtime to win Game 7 and the referee said we kicked it in, went off their guy's knee pad, we ended up losing on the next shift, Daymond Langkow scored.  That one stands out in my mind.  Another one when I was coaching Spokane, Game 7, against the Portland Winter Hawks, Peterson was the coach, what happened, first shift of the game our goalie fell down behind the net.  We were down 1-nothing, ten seconds in, then we won in overtime.  Those are two that kind of stand out in my mind. 
 

Q.   That's when you were down 0-3?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Yes. 
 

Q.   This series has gone from one that was very close; not a lot of room to one of the past two games varying up and down with more wide open than we're used to.   How do you think it will be tonight?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, I don't know the answer to either question.  It tells you about emotion.  It tells you about how bad people want to win; how you can go from being so structured and so responsible and so poised to all over the place.  But that's what the Finals are all about.  That's why it's so much fun.  The big thing for us is like I said, in the first question we're going to come out and be as poised as we possibly can and I really believe that the team that can establish their game first is going to win.  So come out and do what you do.  But you got to allow yourself enough emotional control and allow your skill to come to the forefront.  
 

Q.   You broke out in Game 6 in Anaheim scoring 5.  It was such an emotional win.  You said you wanted to control your emotions but is there anyway you can take all the positives from Game 6 and try to just keep that rolling?
 
COACH BABCOCK: For sure, Roger.  I really believe the fact is you come back to your building for Game 6, there's no reason to win the game unless you plan on winning Game 7.  That's just  how the mind works.  That if you didn't think you could win Game 7 you wouldn't bother winning Game 6.  No one is going to say you bowed out.  But the guys obviously think they can win.  That's why we are here.  And we're going to come out here and we're going to be as good as we can be. 
 

Q.   Is it a privilege to be a part of a Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Finals?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, that's an unbelievable understatement, but in saying that, it's a bigger privilege to be involved with a group of guys like I am involved with.  And for them to be able to take you on a ride like this has been for our coaching staff, I can't say enough about it.  And you know, obviously Bryan Murray's given someone like myself an opportunity and the guidance you get from Lorne Henning and Paul MacLean and Francois Allaire is unbelievable.  For me I can't say enough about that.  In saying that, let's finish it off here.  We're here.  Let's do it right. 
 

Q.   What is your read on your players after practice this morning, loose, tight, just the mood in the room right now?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, you know, I spend a little or no time thinking about that stuff.  Tonight when the puck is dropped the key - and I really think your first four or five rotations, maybe even three or four rotations for your groups, are so important because that's when it's important.  Whether you are rattled this morning or not doesn't really matter.  I can tell you our guys are excited.  It's something you dream about.  This is Game 7  -- this series has gone from something down, you know, 2-0 to from being one of the ugliest looking things ever, to being something that you dream about.  And the greatest thing about this dream is we're in control of it.  
 

Q.   Are you one of those guys regardless of what happens you think yeah, it was great to be in the Stanley Cup Finals in a Game 7 or if you don't win, it was a waste of a spring?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, the education that we have gotten through opportunity, you can never consider as a waste in any way whatsoever.  And we get to play in the last game, and you are going to get to stand on the blue line either way.  But in saying that, I mean, at the end of the game we're going to stay in the process but at the end of the game it's about the prize.  You want the prize.  So I mean, who finished second three years ago?  
 

Q.   You talked about a little bit about being boring and staying in the same routine.  I was wondering if you could speak to your routine on game days and from the time you leave this arena 'til they drop the puck, how will you keep yourself busy, your mind occupied?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, it's different at home than on the road.  At home I go to the same bagel place and have the same sandwich; then go home and sit down and eat and talk to my wife or whatever.  Here on the road, I am going to go back to the hotel, have a meal, and I never sleep, that's overrated anyway, that stuff.  So you just hang out, prepare your notes, your thoughts for tonight and then wait for the time to pass.  Anybody who tells you the time goes fast between the morning skate and the game at this time of year is lying to you. 
 

Q.   You hear a lot about players that are in this position for the first time.  You are in that same position.  Are you feeling some of that excitement, the butterflies, kind of, thinking about what it could be like if you win this game tonight?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I don't spend a whole lot of time thinking about what-ifs.  I spend a lot time thinking about being poised, seeing the ice, being demanding and supportive and I am going to bring my poms-poms tonight and cheer like crazy for the fellows.  
 

Q.   In the past you have talked about that in tough situations it's important to have a foundation for a structure to fall back on.  Explain a little bit about what the basic foundation and structure of your team --
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, I mean, we have had five things we have talked about all year long and they are the same five things.  Obviously, we have allowed them to grow or  focus in different areas on different times.  But those five things will be on the board here tonight and the number one premise of the whole thing is we do what we do and that's hockey, and it's real simple, and you know, I think the key to success here today is do more by doing less, and just do what we do, and stick to the plan, whether it's going good or going bad.  I think being resilient and flat-lining as much as possible, is real important.  That doesn't mean don't go out there during the warmup and during the National Anthem and soak in all the energy of the building.  I think you should do that, but I think the switch has to go on when the puck is dropped and let's play.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT