NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 7, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Coach, at the end of the game, you were saying something to Paul Kariya on the bench.  Could you share some of that with us and what you thought of Paul's performance?

COACH BABCOCK: I won't share any of it with you.  I read a memo from the League.  I know the hit wasn't late.  He was courageous.  Anytime that happens, it's a big message to your team about leadership.

Q.  Initially, what did you think of the hit?

COACH BABCOCK: It doesn't matter what I think.  I already read what the League thinks.

Q.  When you have a guy who seemingly was unconscious for a few seconds usually doesn't get back into a game, was there any question about him coming back?

COACH BABCOCK: No, not at all.  I don't think he was unconscious.  I know we have had guys miss  -- we have had guys with concussions before.  We take every precaution you would.  Obviously if he wasn't able to come back, the medical people make those decisions.

Q.  Other than the outcome of the game, what aspects were you most pleased with?

COACH BABCOCK: I thought we had good energy level.  I thought we were fairly gritty.  Even when the game was out of hand there, I thought we were still doing what we had to do.  We got ahead right away.  So when you look at it in some ways, I thought we were kind of fairly defensive through a lot of the game.  That's what happens when you get ahead.

Q.  Each team has now got 8 goals in the last two games.  Can you give us why you think this series has opened up and suddenly become much more offensive?

COACH BABCOCK: The guys were reading the papers and found out the public didn't like what was going on, so they thought  -- no, I don't have any idea why that's happened.  People who haven't lived this have no idea about the emotions.  They're a veteran team who's been through it time and time again.  This is the first time I've seen them fluctuate like this.  When you think about it, they can fluctuate -- now you take it to Game  7.  Right now, we've got a one-game shot to win the Cup.  The reality is, the emotion is what leads to you doing things probably trying to do too much than what you normally do.

Q.  In all your years of coaching, even going back to playing, have you ever felt better for one of your teammates than the way Paul Kariya did it tonight?

COACH BABCOCK: It was a nice way to respond.  I was impressed with that.  It was impressive for him.  I think he's got to feel good about it.  When you're stretched and people are calling you out, I think somebody asked me right in front of you about that, is you get a chance to respond.  When you respond that's the best feeling.  That's why they pay you the money.

Q.  Any comparison with that Kariya hit to a few years back to when Scott knocked Lindros out?  The second part of the question, home ice has held all six games so far in this series.  Is there anything to that?  Any reason why you would think it's held?

COACH BABCOCK: You know, it's interesting, you can say match-ups.  I don't think the match-ups have been as important as controlling of the home team.  As far as the hit goes, I think Lindros was carrying the puck.  That would be the difference then.

Q.  Do you think the League needs to do more to protect its star players?

COACH BABCOCK: No, I think the referees are doing what they can.  They get a mandate  -- you know, it's interesting because you've got two guys.  I've known Brad Watson a long time and Marouelli are out there.  They're doing the best they can.  They're under big-time scrutiny.  To me, they're doing everything and they're making the decisions as fast as they can.  I think they've done a real good job.

Q.  Mike, when Paul was crossing center, you could see Stevens coming from the bench.  Were you yelling "look out" because he's done that so many other times before?

COACH BABCOCK: Not at all.  I didn't think there was going to be any contact at all, because  -- because you're supposed to have the puck.

Q.  Or Paul usually gets out of the way?

COACH BABCOCK: Well, you're supposed to have the puck.

Q.  Mike, can you talk about the composure your team showed under two separate situations, one facing elimination and the other is a desire to retaliate for something like that?

COACH BABCOCK: We're not that type of team.  We haven't been all year.  We've been a real disciplined team that doesn't go after the other team.  The thing about elimination was brought up this morning.  I don't know if that enters anybody's mind.  It's about what you're playing for.  It's about the opportunity, not the other side of things.  I think that's how you look at it as an athlete.  You're trying to continue to stay in the process and pursue what you've dreamed of your whole life.

Q.  Mike, you've gone out to New Jersey now twice and it's been unsuccessful.  Is there anything you can do in your mind to say or do to change the preparation and change the atmosphere?

COACH BABCOCK: I think the great thing about it is you go in there and get spanked three times, we can't play worse than we've played there.  We've got to be due for a good one.  I think that's positive.  The other thing about it is what shift, what break is going to turn this next game.  Today we threw the puck at the net.  It hit Stevens' foot, it went in the net.  There is the break.  They got three of them the other night.  I think the teams are equally matched and I think both teams as much as the poise level is supposed to be so good, by the veteran team, I think both teams have shown a lot of fluctuating emotion.

Q.  Mike, are you concerned at all about the odd-man rushes, it's 17 to 7 in favor of New Jersey.

COACH BABCOCK: No, what I would say to you is when did that happen.  They had a ton of them the other night when we were down 5-3 in the game.  The game was over.  Our guys are all over the place.  When you look at it and both teams are playing well, neither one gives up anything.  When either one gets out of hand, that's when the chances have been.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT