NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 7, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mike, you've coached in some championships games before.  Do you ever look at this one and say because it's the Stanley Cup, it's the biggest game you've ever coached before?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, those games, when I was coaching them, were the biggest games I ever coached in.  They're all relative.  Right now, you've got to play to play again.  We're at home in our house.  It's right where we want to be.  This is the last game we get to play in our house this year.  I said to the guys, I said, "You can be tight and tentative or loose and driving."  That's how we live our lives and how we're going to be tonight. 
 
Q.  Coach, do you anticipate any changes to the lineup tonight, and if so, why?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Maybe one because we might need a change, but I'm not sure. 
 
Q.  Mike, it seems like there have been a lot more odd-man rushes in this series.  Is that because of something the Devils are doing?
 
COACH BABCOCK: The games that we have been successful in, there hasn't been.  I didn't think there was that many at the start of last game, but as the game got out of reach, I think we got off track for sure.  That's part of it. 
 
Q.  Mike, you talked from time to time about reading the mood in your dressing room.  Coming in prior to Game 6 tonight, knowing this is a possible eliminator, what's the mood like?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, I think the mood is real good.  It's interesting how perception is of this.  I'll say this again:  To me, this is what it's all about.  You get stretched and you've got to respond.  I look at this as a big-time opportunity for our team right here.  This is what you dream about when you're a kid.  This is where you want to be right now.  Let's respond.  It should be a lot of fun. 
 
Q.  Mike, could you clarify tight and tentative and loose and?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Driving. 
 
Q.  What do you think making pregame speeches at this time does?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Just like players, you should do more by doing less. 
 
Q.  Would you like to be able to get the Cup and put it on the table in the dressing room and a "Here's what you're playing for"?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I think you know what you're playing for.  Everybody knows that.  I think the thing here, once again, is we want to respond, and we all know how long it takes and we've got guys in our room who have been in it forever and this is the farthest they have ever been.  I think that's pretty obvious.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT