NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 5, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Nine goals in one game.  Where did that come from?
 
COACH BABCOCK: You know, I have no idea.  I thought the first period was as wide open as it's been.  I can't really say.  They earned their goals by throwing them in the net.  They hit people.  We can talk all we want about bad luck or a bad break on the bounce.  When you're running around in your own zone and the other team is going to their own net, that's when those things happened.  We didn't do a good enough job in our own zone. 
 
Q.  How did you see the Pandolfo goal?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I don't know.  I didn't  -- well, I mean, which one was it?  
 
Q.  The fourth goal, the one that was overturned on replay.
 
COACH BABCOCK: I saw it in between.  It was a good goal.  I mean, the kid tried to stop it, it hit his foot, and it went in.  Good break for them.  He was going to the net though. 
 
Q.  The first period was a little scrambly and you guys seemed to have an answer every time they came back.  It was last game you said to the team, "Hey, let's have a good second period because they have dominated us in the second period."  What did they do?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I didn't think we were resilient the way we could have been.  I thought the Chistov penalty was kind of a  -- we didn't seem to react well after that, after the obstruction call in the neutral zone.  I didn't think we reacted very well from that point on.  I don't know if we got distracted by officiating the goals that were bouncing in.  You start saying to them how come they're getting the breaks?  But they get full marks for that. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I don't think it should be either.  We talked about it coming in here.  We thought we were really prepared.  We thought we got off to a good start tonight.  I really thought they were just coming and working and they got a lot of good breaks tonight.  Like I said to you, they earned them. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT