NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 2, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Coach, why has it changed so much, the first goal not being allowed to have other teams come back?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I think, obviously, defensive posturing.  I don't know if it's as big a deal as that.  It seems to be right now.  I don't think that's it at all.  I think in this series in particular, they came back to even the game last game and we scored first.  I don't know if that had any bearing in the end anyway. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible) have you guys had to make adjustments to what Jersey's been doing?
 
COACH BABCOCK: You all try to adjust, but we haven't  -- the big difference between that game and theirs is called skating.  Simple.  We actually thought that technically we were better in Game 2 coming out of our end than Game 3.  We weren't in the right spots as much.  With the way they skate and the amount of pressure they can put on you, if your D don't have a second, it's pretty hard for them to make efficient passes.  One of the reasons they're being successful is their forward and giving them an extra second.  There is more obstruction in this series than any series we've played. 
 
Q.  Sounds like you might have trouble yelling on the bench?
 
COACH BABCOCK: That won't be trouble tonight.  I'm saving her for tonight.  I've got a sore throat.  Actually people that know me and had to hang out with me have liked it the last day and a half. 
 
Q.  Can you just talk about what Mike Leclerc has kind of meant during the playoffs after the tough season he's had?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, I think it's meant the same to everybody, that when you get to play at this time of the year, it's pretty special.  For a guy like Mike, there is a couple things.  It's a reward, but it's a lesson too.  The mind drives the body, and if you want to play bad enough, it doesn't matter how bad you're hurt, you find a way to play.  He's obviously got a big off-season coming up, but he's been a huge factor because of his size, skill and tenacity on the puck. 
 
Q.  Mike, you talked a couple days ago about how well thought out their backend is and how you think you have one pretty good one too.  Is there a significant difference between what the two teams ask out of their defensemen?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I can't speak for them.  I just know that in today's game, not only do you have to be an elite defender but also an elite puck mover or else there is no speed.  When I first started, there was no such thing as the neutral zone, just a speed zone.  It's like chess:  if you can't get through it, you have no attack; your defense has to be so good at moving and managing the puck and your forwards have got to be in the right spots.  In the old days, just that wheeling around stuff, that's not there anymore. 
 
Q.  Mike, when you say there is more obstruction in this series than any of the previous ones, is that working to the advantage of one team or the other in this series?
 
COACH BABCOCK: Well, I think initially by them, but we weren't skating and fighting through.  Any time things are being done consistently, you have to adjust to them. 
 
Q.  Along the same lines, it was only one call but it seemed a call on Rafalski, the hook, which was kind of the same thing they have been doing all series, but it maybe set a little different tone?
 
COACH BABCOCK: We've got to decide if we're water skiing, then water skiing.  If we're playing hockey, let's play hockey.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT