NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 29, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mike, Paul Kariya and Steve Rucchin just took the morning off?
 
COACH BABCOCK: That's right. 
 
Q.  Any other information  --
 
COACH BABCOCK: That's what we've done throughout the playoffs, certain guys have been given an option, other guys haven't been. 
 
Q.  Just to continue, did you sense that Paul might be a little more uptight than usual?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I don't feel that at all.  When you look at our whole team, I'm looking forward to tonight's game more than anyone so I don't have to talk about that game anymore because it was the toughest game we've ever had. 
 
Q.  Mike, I was wondering, a couple guys talked about the importance of Steve Thomas and Adam Oates winning for the first time in their careers.  Is that a concern of yours?  Do you think about that?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I can't imagine wanting to win more than I want to win.  Every guy is like that, these guys have been in the league a long, long time.  It would be real nice for them.  Every guy in the room wants to be successful. 
 
Q.  Mike, I understand that you've gotten tickets for a number of your ex-McGill hockey teammates.  How special is it to have them included, and are there any spectacular anecdotes?
 
COACH BABCOCK: None that I'm going to share with you.  It's special.  The information guy, Earl Zukerman at McGill, basically is responsible for this.  I was real fortunate to go there and have some real good friends that I played with and lived with, and I have good contacts with them to this day.  It will be nice to see them here tonight. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I think it's 14 people, but I don't know who's who or exactly everybody that's coming. 
 
Q.  Mike, what adjustments are you going to make in the way you attack the Devils defense?
 
COACH BABCOCK: The first thing we're going to do is skate and compete and manage the puck.  The big thing about adjustments is you can't make adjustments until you do what you do.  And find out what you did wrong.  
 
Q.  Coach, that being said, you said you were anxious to get on to tonight, you guys came in here hoping you can go home with a split.  Can you still do that?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I don't buy that for one second.  It's a race to four and they got one, we have none, and this game here today is as big as it could ever be.  What everyone has told me who has experience says it happens so fast that it's done before I even know it.  That hasn't happened to us.  We have to be prepared for tonight's game. 
 
Q.  Any lineup changes tonight?
 
COACH BABCOCK: No. 
 
Q.  Mike, two parts I guess, has there grown a mystique about Scott Stevens at this time of the year, and do your forwards have to get past that and play definitely against him?
 
COACH BABCOCK: I don't think it's a mystique.  He's been a competitor and leader for a long time.  He's a passionate fellow to me that's very much under control and he's earned the right.  They've built a cornerstone and franchise here, Brodeur, and him, and a number of guys, over the years they've had.  They've changed parts, but they haven't changed the parts to what they thought were the driving parts that made it successful.  That's not a mystique, it's earned.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT