NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 28, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mike have you had a chance to go over films, and if so, I'm sure you probably did it all night.  What have you seen or what are your thoughts after looking at the films?

MIKE BABCOCK: Well, I didn't do it all night.  I slept, and got up this morning and went through it.  We saw the same things we saw in the game, and, in fact, we probably saw it more clearly today.  I don't want to take anything away from New Jersey because they were good.  We weren't very good.  We had a lot of time to work on things.  We worked on lots of things and never did anything.  For whatever reason, we weren't as good as we could be.  We didn't control our emotions to execute or whatever.  Our game plan wasn't executed.  They were quicker.  They executed better.  They had way more speed to win all the battles and I don't think our team engaged.

Q.  Coach, did you think that there was some positives you saw late in the game that you guys can apply to Game 2?  How about taking something good from Game  1 and applying it?

MIKE BABCOCK: There is lots good.  We've got one game of Stanley Cup Finals experience.  The one thing about last night's game is we didn't lose in triple overtime in a heart breaker.  We played like crazy and did everything we could.  It was pretty easy when we went through our clips with our guys for them to see we weren't doing well.  It's one thing if you execute your plan and they beat you.  It's another thing if you don't do what you wanted to do.  The reality is we didn't do a good job in Game  1 and we had our 15 minutes to hang our head last night, and our guys did that.  We're getting on with our life here today.

Q.  Sometimes too much is made of the first goal, but if you look at the Statistics, both of these teams are very difficult to beat when scoring first.  What makes it difficult to come back on either of these teams?

MIKE BABCOCK: Structure.  They're a real structured team.  They're a real good team that way.  I would like to think normally we are, too.  Last night we weren't.  They make you make plays to beat them.  They don't give you anything for free.  They make it hard for you to get to the net.  They don't beat themselves.

Q.  Mike, how do you guys generate more shots on goal, I think six shots in the first period, six in the second.  Obviously, you need to get more on Marty.  What are you going to have to do?

MIKE BABCOCK: We've got to have more speed and manage the puck.  What I mean by that is every time you bauble the puck or make a bad pass, it slows things down.  Last night they executed so they're on top.  We didn't execute.  So they're coming with speed, speed, all the time.  The rink gets tilted.  We've going to manage the puck better.

Q.  You talked about playing "greasy hockey."  Can you tell where that expression came from and what this means?

MIKE BABCOCK: I don't know where it came from.  What I meant by that is you get ten days off and you're still not involved.  You want to be involved but you're not.  We never got any grease on us.  We didn't compete in the way we normally do.  The thing that we as a group want to be proud of every day as we leave the rink is how hard we work, how hard we competed.  It was kind of disappointing for us last night.

Q.  Coach, just talk about your team having to play from behind now in a series for the first time in the playoffs?

MIKE BABCOCK: What an opportunity for us.  What this is all about is about stretching you getting better.  I know the players feel the same way.  I feel like that, too.  Now we're in a situation we haven't had.  It's going to stretch us.  We're going to find a way to react positively and get better.  Emotionally, I mean, it's not like we lost a heart breaker at the end of the game.  We got beat.

Q.  All the answers seem to suggest that you don't think this is at all about any changes and adjustments strategically, it's about your team doing  -- or is that now true?

MIKE BABCOCK: This is how I could do it.  I could change a whole bunch of stuff.  I'm not a big change guy that way.  Until your team comes out and competes and skates, how do you know if you could change?  You haven't given your team a chance to evaluate that.  Guys who have been good for me all playoff long, why weren't they good last night?  I don't want to overreact on that.  It was one game.  We would have liked to have been a lot better.  We can't do anything about it now.  We have to get prepared for tomorrow.

Q.  Mike, throughout the break after the Minnesota series you talked about the team would be ready despite the layoff.  Are you surprised personally that the team didn't play more its game last night?

MIKE BABCOCK: Well, the first part of that, I mean, when you asked me, over those ten days, what am I supposed to say, we're not going to be ready in the second part?  I would like to have us be better.  I thought we might have managed the puck and skated better.  I guess maybe the surprise to me is I thought we were going to be better in the second and the third than we were in the first.  I thought we were the same throughout.

Q.  Mike, it appears that you got what you wanted out of Chouinard.  Can you talk about the pros and cons of that?

MIKE BABCOCK: Well, the reason they had success is they just did what they have to do.  They played simple and did more by doing less and stuck to the plan, but I'm pretty sure you're going to see the rest of the guys.

Q.  Mike, you talked about not making a lot of changes.  Is there a possibility we'll see more of Oates, Sykora?

MIKE BABCOCK: With Paul, you mean?

Q.  Yeah.

MIKE BABCOCK: Probably not on the road.  You know, we just haven't  -- we've done it this way because we think we draw the best matchup like this.  As good as they can generate offence, sometimes when they play against lines, they can really check, they spend a lot of times in their own zone.  If they're really jumping, they play more.  We spread our minutes out last night because we were looking for an answer.

Q.  At home, can you get that match-up better so we might see them together more at home?

MIKE BABCOCK: That's what I have been doing throughout all the playoffs.  It works for us.

Q.  Mike, I know you have been asked variations of this throughout the playoffs.  As it pertains to Paul Kariya, obviously, he's not playing poorly.  Do you need him to score?  Beyond anything else that other players are doing, do you need Paul Kariya to put the puck in the net to beat this team?

MIKE BABCOCK: We need to win.  The first thing you've got to do is everyone has to play together.  The second thing is you've got to get timely goals.  Paul's found a way to do that for us.  No different than anybody else on our team last night.  That was his first Stanley Cup Finals game last night.  As much as you have been through a lot of things, everything is new.  You've got to find a way.  The thing about this guy is he usually does that.  He has to elevate.  So does everyone else.  I find the key to the guys who score is if we manage the puck as a team, they get the puck with speed.  If we don't make any plays, they never have any speed, and they're out there grinding around looking like everyone else.

Q.  Coach, you mentioned that Bylsma got the most shots came through because they did what they were supposed to do.  Guys like Kariya, Oates and Rucchin and Sykora, guys who you might expect to be guys who you would definitely get some production out of regardless of the situation maybe didn't play to what you thought they would.  Can you put a finger on why?

MIKE BABCOCK: Well, I don't know for sure. I mean, obviously, like I said to you, we didn't execute the way we wanted.  We didn't have the kind of speed we wanted, I thought, in particular, and I thought they had the puck with speed all the time.  If you never have the puck and don't put any first-guy pressure on them, they're going to be a pretty good team. 

Q.  You speak about how this is all new for your team; it's all new for you, too.  Is there anything you have to do going into Game 2 maybe you didn't do the first game?

MIKE BABCOCK:  My team's got to be ready.  I mean, the bottom line is that we do this as a group, and as a coaching staff, any way you evaluate it, you evaluate it at this level by wins and losses.  We've got to get the job done.

Q.  Mike, judging from last night and during the season, the Devils are a pretty physical team, aside from all their other assets.  They seem to be more physical than the other teams were you faced.  What adjustments or what thoughts do you have in terms of how you look at their physicality.

MIKE BABCOCK: You know, what we're going to do is we're going to do what we do, and just like when Dallas was being physical, I didn't think last night's game was physical that way.  I thought they were hard on the puck.  I didn't think they were running around at all.  I thought they just played the game hard and played it well.  That's how they've played in the playoffs.  They play hard so we've got to give them credit.  We've got to do the same thing.  That's what we've done.  We're not a team that does anything after the whistle.  We just have to be real hard on the puck and compete between whistles.  That's what we're going to try to do. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT