NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 27, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mike, are you disappointed in the way your team came out tonight?

COACH BABCOCK: We didn't think we were very good.  I thought they were real good, and they had good jump, and they managed the puck well, and they had better speed than us.  I didn't think our team engaged.

Q.  Mike, Pat said he thought the layoff showed a little bit early with you guys and that you got stronger as the game went on.  Do you think it did or not?

COACH BABCOCK: A layoff is an excuse.  We had an opportunity tonight.  They were better than us.  They executed better.  They were hungrier, and you have to give them credit.

Q.  Mike, you were talking about the match-ups this morning.  You said that you might both want the same thing.  Given the way this game went tonight, it didn't look like a match-up that favored you very much.

COACH BABCOCK: I guess the first thing you could do is you could say to yourself, "Was the match-up no good, or was the team not very good?"  We didn't think the team wasn't very good.  If you don't skate and you're not quick and you don't manage the puck, it's pretty hard to evaluate those things.  I thought their match-up of Gomez against the Bylsma line, I thought that match-up ate us alive.

Q.  Mike, there seemed to be a whole lot of odd-man rushes; even some break-aways that you wouldn't expect to see in the Stanley Cup Finals.  What do you do to change that?

COACH BABCOCK: We've got to play a lot better.  So many of those situations come from us turning the puck over.  The other thing I thought as the game went on I didn't think we were as terrible in the 1st period.  The 2nd, the rink was tilted badly.  They had lots of opportunities.  We were pretty fortunate in a lot of ways.  We had an opportunity going into the 3rd period, which we probably hadn't earned.

Q.  Can you remember having as few as 14 shots in a game?

COACH BABCOCK: I knew it was going to be tough to generate offense against them.  I thought it was going to be tough for them to generate offense against us.  They did a real good job, stuck on the puck, played hard defensively.  I didn't think we were very quick.  I didn't think we engaged in the physical part of the game at all, and I think that our inability to manage the puck allowed us to have any speed.  When you play against an organized team you've got to manage the puck. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT