NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 27, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mike, first question, Martin Brodeur is obviously a very good goalie.  What is the game plan?  How do you beat him?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  That's a real good question, and teams have been trying to figure it out for a long time.  The big thing about him is he's been able to get it done at this time of year.  Obviously, his mental toughness and battle level are really, really good, but for us, we've just got to get the puck and the people to the net as much as we can.  What I've seen throughout the playoffs is they're not always very pretty, but the more you get the pucks and people to the net, the better opportunity you have. 
 
Q.  Have you seen a difference in the way your team is carrying themselves?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  Relative to ten days of practice?  Sure.  They're a little more excited now.  It got a little old there.  Not even in training camp do you go as long as we did without a game.  Just being in this environment and knowing you have accomplished three-quarters of what you set out to do, that's a real positive thing.  In saying that, everyone knows what the measure is here. 
 
Q.  Mike, in the Devils' room, there is a quote pasted on their board -- and you're laughing already -- that supposedly came from Dan Bylsma saying how he wants to shake Scott Stevens' hand when he's congratulating me on winning the Stanley Cup.  To this point you guys have avoided any kind of inflammatory quotes.  Is this surprising to you?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  He was probably unsure if Scott would be ready so he wanted to make sure.  No, I don't know why.  The thing about it is every guy in our room, without any question, has a dream of winning, but the reality, and the only thing that matters right now, is how we get prepared for this game and play tonight.  As much as the media is involved in this process, the game is going to be won and lost on the ice. 
 
Q.  Coach, John Madden's line shut down Thornton's line, and they played against Hossa.  Do you expect them to be blanketing your top line?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  I know who Madden is, but who is my top line? 
 
Q.  Kariya and Oates and those kind of guys.
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  You know, I guess the thing is, we have a lot of theories, and we've gone through them because we had a fair bit of time to work this stuff out.  We're going to see what they want, and I wouldn't be surprised to see tonight what we want to be exactly what they want.  It makes it pretty easy for match-ups.  That wouldn't shock me at all.  Obviously, Madden has done a real good job.  He's a real good player.  He plays hard.  I think their whole team plays hard.  To me, they all present a big-time test for us.  It's something you want.  You want to be tested and stretched. 
 
Q.  As a coach coaching in the Stanley Cup Final for the first time, who did you turn to for advice?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  Well, lots, but what I did is I said to them when I talked to you that I wouldn't share any names, but I have been accused of asking way too many questions, so I call lots of people. 
 
Q.  I don't know if anybody's asked you this, Mike, but can you just talk about the excitement level for your team, just the feelings and the excitement?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  Obviously, this is something we've thought about for a long period of time.  Now, having the opportunity to experience it is what it's all about.  The big thing for us is we have to control our emotions and make sure we're the best we can possibly be.  I'm sure tonight there is going to be some butterflies, but you might as well get out there and get involved in the game.  Once the game starts, that's what we're here for.  All this stuff is enjoyable and we want to enjoy the process, but we're here to play. 
 
Q.  Coach, how much does Joe Nieuwendyk being out of their line-up, how does that affect you?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  What I saw in Game 7 against Ottawa, Joe went down, and the team didn't miss a beat.  We're going to play as hard as we can against the people putting a jersey on and being out there on the ice. 
 
Q.  What is your overall feeling about line-matching?  Some coaches feel it's a defeatist thing; some coaches feel they have to put their best players on.
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  I believe you've got to play your best players a lot.  I like matching lines, but in saying that, we're not going to stop doing what we do to get overconcerned about them, but we have matched all the way through in the playoffs.  In some series, it was more difficult than others because the other coach didn't want the same match-up.  I might be shocked here tonight, but I think it's going to be pretty easy. 
 
Q.  In past series, do you think that the way the Game  1 went, the way that Giguere played, that the other teams got too focused on him and overlooked your other guys?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  That might have been able to happen in the Detroit series early.  After that, I don't think that's possible.  We're a pretty good team.  Jiggy is a real good goalie, and he's given us an opportunity.  This guy here, when their team is in trouble, he's no slouch.  That's what you ask the goaltender to do, weather the storm for you. 
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about Ozolinsh, what he's given you?  Has he given you more than you expected?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  He's given us way more than I expected.  I knew he was big and I knew he could skate and make great passes, but I didn't know he was like the ghost.  I didn't realize how good he was defensively.  With the exception of his first game for us, he's been absolutely great defensively, played real hard, real competitive guy, wants to win and he is real proud. 
 
Q.  Oleg Tverdovsky is going to play for the Devils.  Coach Burns announced it this morning.  Did your guys come to you and tell you anything about him, and does it make it easier to play against the guy because they've seen him and played with him before?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  I don't think so.  We're about looking after what we do.  He's a real good skater and transition D-man.  He's been real successful in the league.  Obviously, he's going to be able to help him. 
 
Q.  Does Nieuwendyk's absence change who you would match Rucchin against?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  What it does is it makes you think a little bit.  We're going to see who plays with who, and that's going to determine who my match-up is. 
 
Q.  You talked about you not having a top line.  They also seem to be fairly able to put players on all sorts of lines.  You have had Rucchin and Carney against a No. 1 line.  You said, as it comes tonight, it may actually be pretty simple.  Is it going to be difficult because they have so many different skills on so many different lines?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  Well, a couple things to clarify.  I didn't say we didn't have a top line.  I think we have some top lines.  The second thing is, I didn't say it was going to be easy, meaning the fact they're easy to play against.  What I said is if they want the same match-up you want, it's pretty easy.  I would be surprised if they don't want the same thing we want. 
 
Q.  From afar, it seems like both of you two are difficult to match up against?
 
MIKE BABCOCK:  You have a good team philosophy that everyone is important and everyone gets a chance to play.  When I look at the minutes, they're different than the minutes our guys play.  Their fourth group plays more than our fourth group.  It will be interesting to see how they do it.  With ice time, they have done it more by committee than we have.  We haven't had the same kind of balance in minutes, but we do have the same kind of balance in scoring.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT