NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WILD v MIGHTY DUCKS
May 14, 2003
Mike Babcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mike, as big as that first goal was for you guys, do you think maybe Giguere's save on Gaborik's breakaway was great?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: Obviously it was a huge save.  You hate to give them that breakaway because we won the draw.  That's why we pay Giguere the big bucks. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about Paul Kariya tonight.  Talk about his play in this game, after not playing as well in the last two games.
 
MIKE BABCOCK: I disagree with you totally.  I thought his best game in the playoffs was not tonight but the night before.  I thought he was outstanding, and I thought he really skated and pushed the pace and was involved.  Tonight he didn't get as many minutes when it got to be a clown show. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: You know, he just does what he does.  I mean, you try to score.  You're a scorer, you're under big-time scrutiny in the playoffs.  Guys are all over you.  Then when you get room, you try to bury them.  I think tonight was a great example of that.  He got a little bit of room and he made them count. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the penalty kill that came up big again tonight?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: Penalty kill was good.  Early on, they had a same-side feed going.  We didn't adjust to it.  We'll do a better job of that next time, and, you know, the bottom line is goaltending is a part of your penalty kill.  I thought Giguere did a good job but we weren't as good as we normally are in that part. 
 
Q.  How about you had Danny Bylsma and he had a lot of energy.  Are we going to see any more of him?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: Not any more.  He's played the last three games.  He's a big part of our team in or out of the line-up.  I really believe that everybody is important.  That's one of the things that Brian Murray stresses here.  Danny is a very important part of our team. 
 
Q.  Mike, at one point you had gotten goals from ten different people, ten goals from ten different guys.  What does that say to you in terms of balance and contributions from lots of people, obviously?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: It's so important.  Obviously we wouldn't be in this situation if we weren't getting balance.  I think it's so important, and, you know, tonight, we got a goal out of our  -- I think three lines as well.  And Smirnov had a great opportunity if he had gotten one.  You have to have balance, scoring and balance attack.  To answer the question about Kariya, as much as he and Pete and Oates are the guys who score on this team, the more balance you have, the better off you are. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about Giguere's streak?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: He was just asking about Giguere's shut-out streak, if you didn't hear that.  Obviously, he's playing real well and our guys are battling real well in front and hard in front of him.  Gaborik walked home-free from their blue line, so that's time and space like no one's gotten in the playoffs against him.  And you got time to make a decision and a play.  That's a phenomenal save.  Normally it's a quick hitter, and he's so good at reading the game if we're organized.  Obviously, he's playing real well for us.  Every team's got a goalie.  That's what you have to do, you got to play together, and he's been great. 
 
Q.  With Giguere, how important is it to get that first goal and how much confidence is it for your team?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: It's very important if we get it; it's not, if they get it.  Giguere is all about living in the present and the next save.  That sure was our focus tonight.  We get 15 minutes to enjoy this. 
 
Q.  Mike, could you talk a little bit about Rucchin, maybe not tonight, but the way he's been in these playoffs?
 
MIKE BABCOCK: Steve makes you proud to be his coach.  Anybody who competes that hard and battles that hard and leads that much, he's a guy on a mission, and, I mean, it's nice to be his coach.  Thank you.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT