SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 22, 2007
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How disappointing was that match for you?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I really don't know how to answer that question.  It's obvious with four games to Love, it's pretty embarrassing.   
  
  Q.  Obviously the wind played a major part in that because obviously I think a lot of your errors, particularly at the net, were caused by the wind maybe holding the ball up a little bit.   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I mean, I couldn't get much going today at all.  I don't know what it was, but I was feeling pretty good coming into this match and thought I could get things turned around, but I don't know what happened.   
  
  Q.  Do you give some credit to Vince?  It seemed like he played good defense and just kind of waited for you to make the mistake.  Did you feel that way?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Stoned with six easy volleys in a match doesn't help when I'm setting up the point and have one shot to finish it.  It makes things difficult.   
 Yeah, Vince, he returned pretty well, came to the net a little bit more than I've seen.  So it's good to see he's still working on stuff to improve his game.   
  
  Q.  You guys had split the first four times you played.  What was the difference today from those matches?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I mean, I wasn't -- I didn't really show up today.  I didn't feel like once I was in my rhythm, how my game should be going.  I feel like I served or returned, I didn't feel like I moved well.   
 I just couldn't pinpoint anything.  I kept trying to get things going, and error after error.  It was just tough, tough out there.   
  
  Q.  Is it just not getting enough matches?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, it's tough to say.  Definitely I would like to have a lot more matches played, but it's not the situation right now, so I can't rely on that.  I've got to figure out another way to get the ball rolling.   
  
  Q.  Such a shame because you looked just fantastic on the courts.  Your dress sense is just perfect:  Your shirt matching the color of the court and everything.   
 If a contest was based on attire you would have won hands down.  Unfortunately the strokes didn't quite match up with how you looked.   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I'm glad I looked good (laughter) because it's something plus today.   
  
  Q.  What did you think of Vince's wardrobe out there?  It looked like you were playing like a rec player with the stuff he was wearing.   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I wore that to a sixth grade dance maybe.   
  
  Q.  Where do you go from here?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Going home, probably a month's vacation before Houston.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT