WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 17, 2006
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Did you sense that he was tired early in the second, in the third?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I mean, it was obvious to everyone that he was exhausted out there.   
  
  Q.  With that said, then, how big of a missed opportunity was it for you?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I mean, that's a pretty silly question.  It's obvious that that match was just in the palm for the taking.  I let it go by like that (snapping).   
 It's disappointing.   
  
  Q.  What was the reason for that?  Can you put your finger on it?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I mean, I started playing a little bit tentative and he took a couple big rips, took some chances.  He wasn't going to stay in the point, try to rally and win it that way, so he's got to go for it.  Got, I guess, a little tight.  I don't know.  I didn't really feel that tight, but started missing first serves and backing off on how I got up in the third set.   
  
  Q.  You said yesterday you feel your game is almost there.  Besides the loss, do you still feel that way?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I'm not really thinking about much right now.   
  
  Q.  When momentum starts to go away from you like it did at the end of the third set, how difficult is it to turn it around?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I had game points in both games, so it's not like I was missing out on anything.  It's not like I was getting broke at Love or anything.  So I was right there in both games.   
  
  Q.  Can you take any positives from a match like that?  Can you learn from it?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I mean, I played -- you know, I fought hard the whole match and just didn't get the outcome I deserved.   
  
  Q.  Are you more disappointed that you just lost the match or that you lost an opportunity to advance in this tournament with Federer out and, you know, the bigger picture?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I'm not looking at the bigger picture.  I was just looking at the match.  It was, you know, mine to win and I didn't capitalize.  It's disappointing when things haven't been going that great the whole year and then this rolls up.   
 But I'll get over it.   
  
  Q.  Where do you go next week?  Do you go to Connecticut?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  No, I'm gonna go home to Atlanta, practice for a few days, and head up to the Open Wednesday.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT