WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 16, 2006
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Looked like you had an easier time today.   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Definitely, yeah, felt a lot better out there.  Felt calm.  Back in form again.  I think it's on again for me.   
  
  Q.  What makes you think that?  I mean, can it come back that quickly?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I don't know.  Just something clicks.  Before the match I felt really good, like it was gonna be a really progressive match for me.  I felt confident before I even went into it.  That's how I was feeling last summer.  I think it just helps when I get matches under my belt.  It takes a while for me to get the ball rolling, but once I do, I usually don't look back.   
  
  Q.  Was part of that confidence knowing that you were playing a guy that maybe suited your game a little bit better?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  It's tough.  He's a tough player.  You never know who's gonna show up, what Dmitry is going to show up.  He can hit you off the court, he can make a bunch of mistakes.  He's got an extremely big serve and big shots.  It's tough playing him.   
  
  Q.  Looking ahead to tomorrow, you face Andy Murray, who took out Federer today.  Any thoughts so far about tomorrow's match?  Have you had time to think about that?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I haven't really thought about too much.  Just pretty happy the last results, last match.  You know, he's obviously just got the biggest win of his career, and I'm sure he's pretty stoked about it.  I think he'll be ready to play tomorrow.  I don't think Brad's gonna let him think about the win against Federer.  He'll be fired up for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Think maybe you caught a break, though, you're not having to play with the best guy in the world?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Everyone, you know -- it's tough playing against Federer, but, you know, no match is easy.  You know, whether it's Federer or Murray, they got to show up and play that day.   
  
  Q.  Did you watch that match?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I watched the last set - well, the second set.  It was different.  I didn't -- surprised that he got broke seven times.  Didn't look like the same Federer as what we've seen, but, you know, Andy's playing pretty well now and played him tactically smart.   
  
  Q.  Was there a lot of people watching that match where you were?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  No, just my father and Diego and Jamie.   
  
  Q.  When Federer loses to anybody but Nadal, I mean, is there a buzz in the players' lounge or locker room because it's so unusual?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, it's strange, but at the same time he's won so many consecutive matches and tournaments.  You know, top players, they're bound to lose that one time.  Just so happened it was today.   
  
  Q.  Of the eight Americans who entered the draw so far this year, you and Andy Roddick right now are the only ones left so far.  Any thoughts about being the lone Americans left?  Is it important to you to do well here in an American tournament?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I always love playing in the States.  I don't really look at I'm going to try to be the only American standing.  Can't really worry about that or control that.  Obviously, I like seeing all my boys do well.  It's a shame James and Mardy went down today, but hopefully Andy and I can prevail throughout the tournament.   
  
  Q.  Can you give us your take on the young guys under 21 who are in the top 30 right now like Berdych and Gasquet and Monfils.  Any thoughts about that, about how well these guys are doing?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, they remind me of myself kind of looking back even though it seems a lot longer than it is.  They're coming out and, you know, they're going after each opponent.  They're not really scared of anybody.  They're not really worried.  They don't quite get it yet.  But all those guys, they're extremely good players, and they're gonna be very consistent on a yearly basis.   
 I've played Gasquet before, Monfils, and both those guys are extremely competitive.  And, you know, Monfils is an unbelievable athlete, so that's a great talent to have.  Berdych is extremely powerful.  All those guys are gonna keep improving.   
  
  Q.  In your blog you stated that sometimes fans like to hear about some other things about your life such as your interest in cooking and your interest in the Atlanta Falcons.  Cooked anything lately, or got any good recipes?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Unfortunately, I haven't spent too much time in the kitchen.  I've been booked in the hotel rooms the last couple weeks.  But next week when I'm home I'll probably cook a couple meals before I go up to New York.  Just helps me kind of relax a little bit more.   
  
  Q.  You cook for your family, friends?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I have my family come over.  I got a roommate there, he used to work at a restaurant, was actually the chef, so it's good having him around.  He can teach me a few things.  You know, I think after tennis, maybe I'll go to culinary school for a couple years and, who knows, open a restaurant.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT