TMS - MADRID
October 22, 2005
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Robby. 


Q.  There was plenty in your performance to be pleased about.  Were you more pleased about that or more disappointed at losing? 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Disappointed about losing.  Any time you lose a match, it's rough to get over.  You know, you hope that you play your best tennis.  Today, I didn't feel like I did.  I played up and down the whole match.  The tiebreaker was a letdown for me. 

Q.  You did some good things, as well.  You mixed up the pace and also attacked a lot.  You broke back twice immediately. 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I fought hard through the whole match.  That was one thing I could control out there.  You know, the attitude was good.  Hit my forehand well at times.  But I just didn't win the big points.

Q.  Do you feel part of your improvement this year has been down to reduction of unforced errors and that you're still doing that but maybe at the end they crept in again? 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, that's mostly part of my game.  If I'm missing, it's not going to go well with anybody.  But with my game, I take a lot of risks.  Usually, it's on.  But today was off and on. 

Q.  Can you talk more about what's good about your game and why you've had a good year. 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Obviously, I move pretty well.  I serve decent at times.  You know, I meet the ball early.  My backhand's pretty solid.  When the forehand's there to go for it, I usually take it, get control of the point. 

Q.  You may not want to build up your opponents because you want to beat them, but Nadal is a star.  Can you say what makes him particularly good? 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, he's unbelievably quick around the court and he fights every single point.  You know, there's nothing easy.  You have to win every point.  He's not going to give you anything.  You know, he's just a fighter. 

Q.  What does the rest of the season hold for you?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I'm going to go to Lyon tomorrow and then Paris, and hopefully, if I can squeak in Shanghai sometime, that would be appear amazing run for me. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT