US OPEN
September 10, 2005
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Feeling okay?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  A little achy.


Q.  Trouble pushing off?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Little blisters, but comes with playing five sets, five sets, five sets, five sets.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, but it helped get me back in the point.


Q.  Talking about moonballs, 4-All in the first set, you're breakpoint down.  You hit a high, loopy shot with your backhand.  Andre steps in, takes it in the air, smacks it for a forehand drive volley winner.  Did you actually think that one was out?  It looked like it cleaned the line.  You looked really upset.

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I mean, I didn't.  If it was, it was.  You know, can't do anything about it now, so...


Q.  Obviously, it's disappointing to lose, but do you feel you think you've played your best tennis today?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I wouldn't say the best tennis.  I definitely gave it my best effort, I can tell you that. But the best tennis is tough to play, and especially against someone like Agassi, that moves you side to side and puts a lot of pressure on you, you never can probably play your best tennis.


Q.  This is probably not the best backhand day for Andre Agassi.  He had a lot of trouble with backhands.  Could you have focused in on that a little bit more today than you did?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I could have, if someone from the outside told me to.  But I was just trying to win every single point that I could with hitting my backhand up the line or backhand-to-backhand. You know, if the backhand was off on his, it makes it a little bit easier.  But today, it was tough.


Q.  Obviously, you're disappointed, but when you look back on the season going in, Indianapolis, Cincinnati, the results there, then this spectacular run here, I mean, what does this mean for you, what does this mean for your career?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Really haven't thought about it.  Hasn't really sunk in yet. But with the summer I've had, it's been unbelievable working hard again and winning matches.  So, I mean, all in all, I'm definitely on the right track to where I want to be.


Q.  How did you handle the nerves of the situation?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Wasn't too bad out there.  Even though I got broke first game, you know, I wasn't nervous like I thought I would have been.


Q.  Given what you know of Roger Federer, if he's Agassi's opponent tomorrow, how would you handicap that matchup?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  It's obviously tough, you know.  Andre is definitely going to be forced to do things he doesn't want to do.  Roger is so good at bringing you into the net, if he knows that you're not comfortable up there.  You know, with the way he serves, Andre's got to definitely be putting the pressure on him from the get-go.  He's got to control rallies.


Q.  Where would you say the turning point was in this match?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I mean, obviously when he broke me in the fifth set. But I thought we were pretty even throughout the whole match, you know.  Bounced back from a set down each time.  But he was too good in the fifth.


Q.  For the last two months tennis has been fun for you.  Why wasn't it fun before that?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I wasn't winning matches that I should have been winning.  I wasn't playing the way I could have been playing.  It was just -- I was upset.  If it was being away from home, or being away from friends, or when I was out on the road, I just wasn't having a good time, and that was the worst part about it, not enjoying my life.


Q.  Andre said that he thought at times in your past you were irresponsible with your talent and he thought that was the biggest thing that changed about you in this tournament.  Your thoughts?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, he's definitely right-on.  I wasn't reaching my goals and my potential in the game of tennis.  I'm starting to realize to be the best, you have to work your butt off every single day and days can't go by where you're upset about something, you can't let that affect the way you play.  That's what happened.


Q.  Is that maturity?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  A little bit.  I got up to 25 in the world and thought everything was pretty smooth sailing from there, but I had to defend all the points and didn't know how to, I guess, take that into consideration. So maturity is definitely a big part of it now.  I think I'm a lot smarter out on the tennis court.  I make better decisions.  So it's definitely shaping up for me.


Q.  Was the return of serve a determining factor today, and do you see that as a big factor in the match tomorrow?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Obviously, with Andre, it's going to be a factor for him tomorrow.  He's got to, you know, get Federer or Lleyton on the defense, no matter who he plays, from the get-go. But today I thought I could have served a bit better.  I served well in the fifth set, and kind of left me throughout the third and fourth.


Q.  You've had a tremendous hard court season.  Obviously, going into the indoor season now, I'm just thinking ahead to next year when we start off with the clay court season again.  Obviously, you haven't done so well on clay the last couple of years.  Do you think you can transfer this good form to clay now?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Definitely.  I wouldn't rate my clay court playing the way I have been up to any standard at all yet.  It's pretty much garbage the last couple months when I was in Paris, over there, Rome and Hamburg.  Just wasn't how I should be playing. But I'll be back and look forward to the clay.  I'm always excited to get on it, so it's not like I hate it so...


Q.  Did all of the five-setters that you played leading up to today's semifinal match against Agassi finally take their toll on you today?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I wouldn't say that.  With the two days off, I felt pretty fresh out there today.  Obviously it's better to get the match done in three sets.  I would have probably felt 10 times better today. But for all it's worth, I felt pretty good out there.


Q.  These last two weeks, Robby, what has surprised you most about your own game and your own attitude?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Just I can hang with any player.  I shouldn't be intimidated or afraid to walk on the court with anybody.  My confidence has been pretty high, and my work ethic has definitely been up there.  With that said, it definitely enlightens the future for me.


Q.  You'll take a few days off then start practicing for Davis Cup.  Has Patrick indicated to you precisely how he's going to decide between you and James?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  He has not said anything about it to me.  I don't know if he said anything to him, but...


Q.  What he's told us is that he's taking you over there, you're not going to have a playoff, that wouldn't be fair, so he's going to watch you practice for a few days and see how you play on clay.  Does that appeal to you as a way of making that decision?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah.  He's definitely in a tough predicament right now.  So whatever he says, goes.  You know, I stand by whoever is playing.


Q.  How would you tell -- what would you say to Patrick to convince him that you ought to be the other singles player?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I wouldn't get face-to-face and tell him I should be playing over James.  I don't think it's the right thing to do.  I know he's going to obviously pick the man that he feels is going to get the job done.  So if that's James or myself, then we have to win.


Q.  For the last few years we've been hearing about the new wave of American men coming other than Andy:  James, yourself, Taylor.  As good a run as you and James has had in this, what does it say that a 35-year-old, Andre Agassi, American male, took out the young guns back-to-back?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  He's still got it.  That's why he's still going now right at age 35; he still believes that he can compete with anybody.  It's a lot said for him to be out here and doing what he does.  Because me picturing myself at 35 years old, I don't think I could have done what he has.


Q.  What does it say about you guys, you, James, the young group of guys?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  We're right there.  It's tough.  James took him to five; I took him to a fifth as well.  It's looking positive for us.  We've definitely been making strides here and there. To be playing against one of the best players that's been around the game, he's just so wise out there, we need to take that into consideration next time.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT