US OPEN
September 7, 2005
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 
 

Q.  What's it going to feel like to get to bed at a decent hour tonight?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I'm ready right now, so any time you get to bed at a normal hour, it's good for the next day and the day to come.  Waking up, going to the bathroom five, six times a night, getting to bed at three in the morning just wasn't any fun. 
 

Q.  How exhausting was that for you, just going to bed so late?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, it's definitely stress.  You don't want to go to sleep, but you're so happy about the match and the adrenaline is still going at 3 a.m.  It's tough to fall asleep. 
 

Q.  This match has gone the full distance, your third in a row.  How is your body holding up now?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, right now I'm struggling.  Pretty beat up.  This match was rough.  He made a lot of balls.  We were both running each other side to side.  Other two five-set matches definitely didn't help this match out. 
 

Q.  Are you glad that you finally have something to be really notable for other than dating Minnie Driver a couple years ago?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I hope I'm more notable for my tennis than being with her.  Just a little fling, and that's over with, and now I think I'm making my name with tennis.  So that's what I'm here to do. 
 

Q.  How big is this to you right now, great moment, gone deeper than ever?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I don't think it's really sunken in yet.  I think that it's going to hit me later tonight or even tomorrow.  Just overwhelmed right now.  Just exhausted. 
 

Q.  When you were working your way back, did you envision anything like this, or did you think it would take longer?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I thought the process was going to take a lot longer.  You never know what to expect.  You only hope good things will come, and good things have come this summer extremely quick.  I was hoping it would have clicked by the end of the year, but by the end of the summer, everything seems to be folding in place. 
 

Q.  If you were having dinner with someone early in the summer, late spring, and they said to you, "Robby, don't worry, you'll win in Indy then reach the semis at Flushing," what would you say back to them?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I would probably laugh at them at first, be like, "Get out of here," you know. But you never know what can happen.  Like I said, every day you wake up and you just want to be positive and work hard, and that's how I've been since pretty much Wimbledon. 
 

Q.  What was your mindset when he kept on saving matchpoints?  What were you saying to yourself as the matchpoints ticked by?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I thought I was going to get that game when I was up 40-Love on his serve.  I didn't think I was going to get back to deuce even and lose the game.  I thought it was going to be over there.  I was hoping he'd throw a double-fault in like he did the last game.  I didn't want to play a long point. You know, with the crowd so energetic, it kind of got lost in the moment a little bit, kind of lost focus those matchpoints. But, you know, can't ever lose focus out there.  And the crowd's been unbelievable for the three matches I've gone five. 
 

Q.  Before that tenth game, you guys had the break, the whole stadium was, "Robby, Robby, Robby, Robby, Robby," and I know you alluded to crowd support when you were talking to Michael on the court.  You came through five grueling five-setters.  To have the crowd, how much a part of today's outcome is due to the crowd?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  For me it's huge.  I think I give a lot of credit to the crowd.  That's why I'm here right now.  It's great to play in I think your home -- this feels like my hometown even though it's not.  I feel so welcomed here.  The crowd's always been great.  They've been so energetic, and to boost me through to another five-set victory is just tremendous for me.  I know the crowd love seeing the fight of two competitors out there and give them that. 
 

Q.  He's such a great shot-maker, and his speed allows him to do so many different things with the ball.  How were you able to stay with your game?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, it's tough.  He runs down so many shots.  The balls that he gets back you kind of want to go for a little bit more, a little closer to the lines, and then you end up missing his shots. But you just got to stay focused and calm out there, and hopefully he'll make a few unforced errors at the right time, but you never know. 
 

Q.  What has it been like to have Under Armour as a partner?  It's not a tennis brand.
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, it's awesome.  I love Under Armour clothes.  They've been so supportive.  It's so unique, you know, no one has it.  That's what I love the most.  They're coming out with some good stuff, they're asking me, getting my opinion.  It's only going to blow up from here.  It's going to the top. 
 

Q.  Fits your personality.
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, definitely.  I think that's what they're looking for.  With the football and basketball players wearing it, they wanted to get into tennis, and I'm glad I'm their guy. 
 

Q.  At matchpoint, you looked up and said something.  What was it you said?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I was getting a little help from my grandfather up there.  I know he's been looking down and would have been proud of me today.  You know, he's just been tremendous in my life. 
 

Q.  Is it true that in Rome when Blake was playing with you, when he fell over, what did you feel then, that accident?  And did you play against him afterwards?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, we were practicing, hit a dropshot and just came running up to the net and catapulted into the net post.  You could tell it was pretty ugly because the impact of the net kind of shook the court a little bit.  I looked at his coach and we both knew it was pretty serious. I didn't think it would be -- he'd have two neck bones broke, but it was a tragic day right there.  You know, I felt so bad that I was the one practicing with him, I was the one hitting the shot. But, you know, the way he's recovered and bounced back, I just tip my hat off to him.  He's a great guy. 
 

Q.  Do you feel like you're flying a little bit under the radar?  Every time you throw in a great match, something comes along and trumps you with a bigger headline.
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  That happens.  Can't deny winning, though.  So as long as I keep winning, you know, I'm gonna get the spotlight sooner or later. 
 

Q.  You're in the fifth set.  Obviously very, very difficult match.  There was that moment when he hits the dropshot on you, you come up, make a nice drop of your own, but then he hits a winner and the two of you almost kind of high-fived each other.  Can you talk about that?  Was that just mutual respect for great tennis?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, we were both giving 130% out there, we were fighting so hard, and we're both going through the exact same thing.  I think it was a little bit sigh of relief.  When we both smiled, we knew that we were in for more battle. 
 

Q.  There was another point at -- you got broke at 3-2, and you were obviously upset, double-fault thrown in there.  Changeover you had your head in the towel.  How were you rallying yourself there, what were you thinking?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Just trying to stay calm, stay focused, and get back to what I do best, which is get the ball in play and go for my shots when it's there, you know.  Match isn't over until it's over.  I was just down a break and bounced back before, both matches.  Being down a break in the fourth against Gasquet and coming back, winning that, I knew I could do it. I just had to get a little regrouped and... 
 

Q.  Could you talk about the role your grandfather played in your life and tell us a little about him and perspective he gave you.
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, it was my dad's father.  He loved tennis.  His favorite player was Boris Becker.  I guess he loved the dive, he'd call him "Boom Boom" because he'd always have so many bruises and cuts on his elbow. He loved the game.  He came down to the Ericsson - when it was called the Ericsson - because he lives in Fort Lauderdale.  He loved tennis. You know, just to be this close to something that I can look up and kind of get some motivation, it's just amazing, what I've done so far, and I owe a lot to him. 
 

Q.  Getting back to Blake, when he was off the tour, when he was recovering from his injury, recovering from the virus, did you have much to do with him?  Did you speak to him?  Did you see him much?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  James? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I called him probably once a month to check in on him.  I know he was pretty much down-and-out, and I know he needed a lot of support.  I know he's got a lot of great friends.  I just told him to hang in there, everything's going to be fine, you'll be back to the top in no time.  Sure enough, he is. 
 

Q.  All the text messages you have exchanged in the last month, you congratulating him for New Haven, him congratulating you for Indianapolis, did you talk at all about the eventuality of possibly playing each other at the US Open?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  No, we haven't.  We know that that was far away yesterday, and the day before.  You never want to look ahead.  He's got an unbelievable tough match tonight, so I don't think he was looking too far, and I wasn't either. So if it happens, it happens. 
 

Q.  You're such an excellent athlete.  You could have played other sports, possibly baseball.  Why tennis?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I like the individual, you know.  I didn't want people -- I guess when I was younger, on the basketball court, if they missed a shot or if a ball dropped in baseball, you know, I'd get mad at them.  You know, kind of had to take matters into my own hands, and I guess tennis was the way to do it. 
 

Q.  What has Andre Agassi's example meant to you?  If you are playing him next, what do you think will be going through your mind when you step on the court against him?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I played him two out of three night matches at the US Open, so I've kind of been in this situation before here and I know what to expect.  It's going to be a rough, grueling match again.  But he's the king, and I know that, you know, I got to take my opportunities if it's there when they come. 
 
Q.  What are your thoughts on him being in the twilight of his career and maybe being here for the last time?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, you never want to see someone like that leave the game of tennis.  He's done so much for the game, with all the kids that he's helped out.  He's been inspirational to so many people.  I've loved watching him grow up and play the game.  Hopefully, this won't be his last run here, but I wouldn't mind to be the one to take him out from the Open if I play him. 
 

Q.  Americans are happy that there will be one American in the final.  I would like to make a chauvinist observation.  Ginepri is a tree in Italian.  Do you have any Italian background?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, actually, I knew that, that's what it was called. 
 

Q.  We don't have Sanguinetti anymore so...
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  No, my dad's from Luxembourg. 
 

Q.  So nothing to do with Italy at all?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Not that I know of.  I should probably check up on that (smiling).  Read the family tree. 
 

Q.  Your yellow and green outfits made you look like a Brazilian today rather than an all-American homeboy.  What other colored outfits are you going to dazzle us with?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Pretty much showed you what I got the last few matches, with the orange and blue and the turquoise and black and this one today. 
 

Q.  No stars and stripes?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I could go standard-issue all white maybe. 
 

Q.  No stars and stripes?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Not yet.  Unless they come out with it in the next couple days.  They have two days to make it so... 
 

Q.  Oregon Duck in the next match?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, wasn't too bad today. 
 

Q.  What is your final assessment of Guillermo Coria?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I thought he played great.  Obviously, he's one of the toughest guys out there.  He loves clay, and this isn't his favorite surface.  To get to the quarters and, you know, he had chances, obviously, to get past this match... But he's a rough competitor and definitely don't want to see his name in the draw next to mine. 
 

Q.  You said something about expecting the worst.  Obviously, the outcome is what you wanted, but five sets again...
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Right, definitely wasn't looking for another five-set match today.  It takes its toll on the body.  Luckily, I have two days off to get ready for Saturday's match. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT