US OPEN
September 5, 2005
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  You're into your first Grand Slam quarterfinal.  Got to feel good the way your body is holding up so well to the physical punishment it's taken over the last few days. 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  It definitely feels good.  You work so hard and you wonder if that's ever good enough.  You know, now it's paying off.  It shows that hard work does pay off.  So all the hours you put in off court, you know, I'm happy I did it.  I suffered more then than I did now.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about what has gotten you here right now. 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Hard work pretty much sums up why I'm here right now.  A lot of confidence.  I'm serving well.  I'm moving well.  I'm making a lot of balls.  I'm understanding the game better.  
 
Q.  Weeks ago you needed a wildcard to get into a tournament.  Now a quarterfinalist in a Grand Slam.  It's a great summer so far, isn't it?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  It's an unbelievable summer.  Hopefully won't end in a couple days.  I'd like to get through this tournament with the title.  But, you know, I'm going to look back on the summer and be extremely proud.  Just giving all I got right now.  
 
Q.  What is your impression of the game of Richard Gasquet?  You never played him before. 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  No, I never played him.  It's different.  He's got an unbelievable backhand.  You can't read it.  You don't know if he's going up the line or he holds it to go cross-court.  He's very talented.  He's going to definitely be up there in contention for Grand Slam titles.  It was such a tough match.  I know that his arm was bothering him.  I don't know how bad that was hurting.  But, you know, we had a great battle.  
 
Q.  At what stage were you aware that Gasquet was struggling physically?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  You know, it's tough.  You never know if someone's hurting or they have a little fatigue.  You never know what's inside their body.  I'm just pretty much staying focused.  But I could tell at the end of the fourth, he didn't look like his normal...  
 
Q.  At the end of the fourth set, you needed to leave the court.  Will you talk a bit about what happened.  Blister?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  No, I had to go to the bathroom, then my finger kind of split a little bit.  It was dry.  Got a little wrap on it.  No biggy.  
 
Q.  You tend to go about your business quite nonchalantly.  Today I noticed there was a bit more fist pumping than usual.  The crowd responded to that.  Are we going to be seeing a bit more of this from you?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I don't know.  It comes out when the time is right.  And tonight, you know, all the energy, the chillness that I've kept inside over a lot of matches, I kind of brought it out tonight.  It was a big match for me, and I showed that when the time is right.  I had to let the emotions out.  
 
Q.  I like the orange shorts.  I think you created a bit of US Open history with that one. 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Which outfit, the turquoise and black or the orange?  
 
Q.  The orange shorts. 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  It's a bright look.  Have to thank Under Armour for that.  
 
Q.  You always seem to be pulling down those boxer compression shorts.  Is that kind of your ritual?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Might be a little nervous habit.  I don't know.  It's been working, so I'm going to keep doing that.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT