U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2008
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. GINEPRI/A. Delic
6-1, 6-2, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. Amer kind of made a match out of it at the end, but what were your sensations first couple sets?
 ROBBY GINEPRI: I got off to a great start. I thought that was going to be the key for me today. I got to be able to get on his first serve a little bit, and I don't think he expected a few of the balls to come back. Once I was in the rally, I felt pretty comfortable.
 And towards the third set he started serving a lot better, and putting a few more of my returns in play. And as the match gets tighter, I can't go for my shots as free as I did in the first couple sets, but overall I felt good. It's always tough to play first rounds no matter where you're at. Victory for me today.

 Q. I was wondering about your Beijing experience. You looked forward to it, got a tough draw, went all that way to play one match. Was that tiring? Do you regret at all going? And how long did you stay? Did you stick around after your match and kind of see other events?
 ROBBY GINEPRI: Yeah, of course it's a long trip regardless, and unfortunate -- I did draw Djokovic first round, but someone's got to play him. And you've got to beat everybody to get the gold medal. So if I was going to do well, I had to play him eventually, probably. 
 Definitely don't regret going over there. I enjoyed every minute, staying in the Village, and hanging with James and Querrey and the Bryan brothers and the women's team, as well. It was a lot of fun and I'll definitely cherish all the moments I had over there.
 I took a good four, five days to get acclimated back here. I played New Haven last week just to get a few more matches. I haven't been playing too much this summer. 
 You know, it was a great experience for me. I really enjoyed it.

 Q. Is this still a special place for you?
 ROBBY GINEPRI: Oh, yeah. New York is definitely, semifinals will always be memorable moment for me in my rear. Hopefully I can top that somehow, but, you know, I've had a lot of great success here, even as a junior player reaching the finals. I come up here, and I I'm always excited to play here in front of the fans. It's a lot of energy out there on every match that I always play in, and I feed off that quite well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT