WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 18, 2005
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  It's a good thing they gave you the wildcard, huh?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Needed it to get in.  Couldn't have been here probably without it.  Hopefully would have went through quallies.  But, yeah, I thank Bruce for giving it to me.


Q.  Where does this summer rank for you compared to the rest of your career?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  It's definitely right up there.  It's the best summer I think I've ever had, taking Indianapolis and getting this far in Cincinnati.  It's been a really good run for me.  It's tough coming in to each year, each season, each surface not knowing what to expect.  You just hope you're playing some of your best tennis going into it.


Q.  You've been to the quarters here before.

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Uh-hmm.


Q.  Does this remind you of that at all?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I think this one's a little more special for me.  I think the year I reached the quarterfinals here I also had two other Masters Series quarterfinals. And this one is a little special for me because I've been working a lot harder, I've been climbing back up into the ranks, and this definitely helps me out.


Q.  What about today, what did you like today?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I don't know, the match went by so quick.  It felt -- after the rain delay it felt like it was over in the blink of an eye.


Q.  You said you've been working very hard.  What is the little extra thing, what is the something special you need to break right into the top ranks?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Just keep working, you know, day in, day out off court in the gym, putting a lot of effort in there, and also hitting a lot of serves.  I've been serving a lot better.  It's been helping me win one or two points off my service games, which is helpful throughout a match. Just practicing a little bit harder and more intense, more focused.


Q.  Is it a confidence thing?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  It is.  Winning matches also makes me a lot more confident.  I'm sure other players feel the same way. But, yeah, winning events, beating seeded players, it definitely gives you more confidence.


Q.  You played him two years ago.  Now he's kind of been struggling with his shoulder lately.  I don't know if you remember, what was the difference from 2003 to now with Moya?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  It's tough to say.  I haven't seen him play too much this year.  He's been around the game a while.  He's a veteran.  He knows what to expect day in, day out.  He's got a big forehand and a pretty good first serve, so you've got to look for those things.


Q.  Was it still pretty good today, his serve, his forehand?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, definitely.  He can blast you off the court, serve you off the court.  You need to be on your toes every time you step out there with him.


Q.  What do you recall about the previous meeting you had with Safin in 2003 in Indian Wells?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Was a pretty good beating that I gave him (smiling).


Q.  6-0, 6-1.

ROBBY GINEPRI:  It was, yeah.  I don't know what happened that day.  I don't think he was on his game.  But can't take credit away from the victory. It's gonna obviously be a little different tomorrow, I assume.  He's going to be serving pretty good heat, and you got to watch out for the backhand.


Q.  You say you don't know what to expect when you come into a tournament, but don't you say to yourself, "I would like to reach..." at least a certain round?  Obviously, you want to win it, but, "This would be a good tournament for me if I could win three rounds," or "if I could win four rounds"?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Of course you're always hoping you're winning matches here and there, but you never know -- when I say I don't know what to expect, you never know who you're going to draw.  I could draw Federer first round, and that's just a tough, tough draw.  You never know who you're going to play, match up against, and you got to be ready for anything.


Q.  But have you exceeded or reached what you thought you might be able to do in this tournament?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I never really put expectations on a tournament.


Q.  When you kind of rededicated yourself to tennis, I know you and Andy are pretty good friends, did you talk to him about your game at all?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Not really.  Just he's been there always for me; I've been there for him.  You know, we're always rooting for each other.  He said earlier after the match - his match, my match - said it was good that you're winning so I have some friends in the locker room.  'Cause, you know, not too many Americans in this still. So he's happy that I'm doing well and getting up to the top with him.


Q.  Does that make a difference for you when you're playing in a tournament in the States and you're out there, one of the two Americans left in the field?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  What?  Does what make a difference?


Q.  Motivation factor, I guess.

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Always being motivated makes a difference.  Coming in matches motivated and more focused I think helps.  I love playing in front of the U.S. crowd, so it always motivates me to do a little bit better.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT