THE STELLA ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 6, 2005
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Pretty comfortable way to start the week, wasn't it?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Definitely.  Good way to start the grass out.  Played well.  Served well.  You know, got my feet wet early.  So it was good to get out there and get a win.


Q.  The atmosphere wasn't that good.  It was cold, cloudy, overcast.  Does that affect your game at all?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I was a little upset when I woke up this morning thinking it was going to rain all day 'cause with the clouds and the way it looked this morning, it could have poured down at any time. But, you know, you got to just go out there and do what you can and control whatever you can.


Q.  Is that kind of what you expect over here?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Well, the first year I came over here, it literally rained -- out of eight, nine days, it rained pretty much every single day. But I like coming over here.  The food's good, the people talk English, so it's not a bad gig to come out of the States and come over here.


Q.  You're one of the few people who say the food's good in London.

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I like it.  I'm a big food guy anyway, so anything in front of me I usually scarf down pretty quick.


Q.  What do you like eating?  What's your favorite foods here?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Oh, I like Nando's.  It's that chicken place.  Went there last night.  Good prematch food, I guess.


Q.  Good fish and chips.

ROBBY GINEPRI:  The fries are pretty good over there (smiling).


Q.  Interesting next round, obviously.

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Uh-hmm.  It's Tim.  The crowd will definitely be against me, pulling for him, but it should fire me up a little bit.  Played him here three years ago, and routine victory; he got me.  But, hopefully, whenever we play again - a couple days from now - it will be different.


Q.  Your game has moved on a bit since then, though, hasn't it?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  It has.  It's matured in a lot of aspects:  Hitting my forehand bigger, serving better, coming in, volleying. But he's pretty tough on grass, so we'll get out there and see how it goes.


Q.  You mentioned the crowd.  It's obviously going to be for Tim, against you.  Is it different here playing with the crowd when they're against you and for Tim, is it much different playing against an Englishman in England as opposed to playing in the States?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I think playing over here and playing an Englishman, they'll be rooting for him pretty loud, you know.  But got to still focus on my game and concentrate out there and take each point at a time. But I don't mind getting cheered against; it kind of fires me up and gives me something else to work off of.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT