US OPEN
August 28, 2003
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Robby.  
 
 
Q.  Could you talk a little about winning today, advancing here after not getting so far as you wanted sometimes this summer?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, with the wrist injury earlier this year, it was kind of tough to come back on, you know, losing my first four matches coming back, then actually winning a tour event after that.  It's pretty exciting.  You know, playing Wayne tonight, it was a great effort for me, a good match to get through.  I felt really good out there. 
 
Q.  There's been attention to all kinds of young Americans, everyone is trying to find out who is going to replace this generation you grew up watching.  Yours is mentioned sometimes. 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Either way, the results will, you know, show anything.  I just want to keep working on my game, not worry really about what anybody thinks, just keep going at it. 
 
Q.  Why do you think you are going to be one of those guys?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I work really hard, have the motivation.  I see James, Mardy, Taylor doing well, Andy as well, you know, pushes me to do  -- pushes me to do as good as they are.  You know, I just think after a time, I'll be up at the top hopefully. 
 
Q.  Did the fact that Mardy had lost before you played have any effect on the way you approached the match?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  That Mardy lost before?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  No.  I mean, I was hoping that he was going to pull it out.  I always like to see, you know, my friends do well.  You know, I didn't see too much of it because I was getting ready for my match.  But really had no effect on the way I was going to play tonight, I don't think. 
 
Q.  You started very explosively from the very first point. 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I was fired up to play Wayne tonight.  You know, it was a big match for me.  Never advanced on to the third round of any Grand Slam.  I was playing well.  I was just ready to get out there tonight. 
 
Q.  One of the big edges that you have is upper body strength.  When did you start lifting?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  When I was about a freshman in high school.  I was pretty short, you know, skinny guy.  Took weight training as a class in ninth grade.  I gained about 15 pounds.  It really helped me out. 
 
Q.  What was it that spurred you into this class?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  It was an easy class.  Probably figured I could get an A in it.  Didn't have to work too hard.  It was the last class of the day. 
 
Q.  But it turned out to be... 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Going into it, I didn't think this is going to help me four years down the line.  But it definitely did. 
 
Q.  How much does that upper body strength mean to you now?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I mean, can't blast people off the court.  So when I have to hit a few more shots, having a good upper body, gets through a lot of long points, rallies, doesn't break down on you. 
 
Q.  Were you on court before Mardy finished? 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I played after his match. 
 
Q.  Did you watch the match at all?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I did.  I was watching the second set tiebreak, a little of that.  The third set, I was getting ready for my match. 
 
Q.  Is Mardy hard to live with after he's had a loss like that?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  You know, anybody is pretty difficult to talk to after they've had a loss.  Mardy shakes it off pretty well.  He doesn't let it really eat at him.  You know, he's back to his same old self probably 30, 45 minutes.  Because, you know, what can you do?  Stay mad the rest of the night?  
 
Q.  Where are you on your waffling decision about a residence?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I don't know.  I need help.  Ready to move out definitely away from the parents.  They've been great.  You know, just need my own place when I go back to wherever.  I wouldn't mind staying in Atlanta, but I wouldn't mind as well going down to Tampa with Mardy, James, and Jeff Morrison, living on the water down there. 
 
Q.  Have you decided Clearwater is too much of a drive? 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Might be, but I think at the end of the day, might be worth it.  
 
Q.  This condition, was it from this match (referring to ice on the wrist)?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Just precautionary.  I had surgery on my wrist about four months ago.  Just keeping it calm.  
 
Q.  When do you figure to make that move?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I was hoping to do it after this tournament.  If I don't know where I'm going to live, it's going to be hard to move somewhere.  
 
Q.  Somebody would put you up for a couple weeks.
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Stay with my parents. 
 
Q.  I mean down in Tampa.
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Mardy and James have been great.  Stayed with James a couple of times.  Mardy just moved into his new house.  He's invited me down there.  My grandma lives in Fort Lauderdale. 
 
Q.  10-minute drive to Saddle Brook, isn't that more appealing?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  45 minutes.  I mean, I drive down to Georgia Tech, which is like 30 minutes from my house.  You know, comfort and happiness, I think at the end of the day is worth a 45-minute drive.  
 
Q.  When you took off your shirt, there was a big wow from the ladies.  Did that get your attention?
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I heard it.  Pretty much stayed focused.  Didn't let it rattle me really.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT