WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 14, 2003
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You're certainly having a breakthrough year here.  In what way is your rise in the rankings related in any part to the match you played here last year against Hewitt when you lost 6-0, 6-0? 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, losing to Hewitt 6-0, 6-0 wasn't the greatest feeling, and didn't play too well then.  But I did a lot better today.  I've been working a lot on my fitness and conditioning to get to the next level, and I think that's really paid off.  In the match today, where we're out there hitting a lot of balls, running each other back and forth on a hot day, I think it really paid off today.

Q.  I read somewhere where you said that that match against Hewitt got you used to playing in big matches against big competition.  Is that accurate?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Well, he was one of my first matches on a huge center court and playing in front of a lot of people and, you know, live on ESPN.  I wasn't used to that.  I was a little nervous going out there, and it showed. 

Q.  Can you talk about today's match. 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, today, got off to a great start.  He missed a few shots early on, and we had some long rallies at the beginning.  I was lucky to come on top and get the first set 6-1.  Then the second set was really a grind for the both of us, running each other back and forth, holding serve all the way, and losing my serve at 6-5 was a little upset.  But I just wanted to stay focused and regroup for the tiebreak. 

Q.  You've been asked about the Americans coming up probably 100 times, but does it help in a situation like this when you've got quite profile guys like James and Andy doing very well here, for you and Mardy to almost kind of slip through a little bit unnoticed with them taking all the pressure?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I mean, they're great guys, Andy and James and Mardy and all the other young Americans.  I think, you know, Andy's dealt with the pressure terrific; the same with James.  And with Mardy and I kind of creeping in there slowly  - we're both still in the tournament, Mardy's got to play later tonight. It's interesting to watch all of us kind of grow, you know, at different times. 

Q.  But you presumably would like to reach a point where you're getting the kind of attention James and Andy are getting?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  It would be nice to not always kind of be one step behind them and kind of break out.  But, you know, whatever happens, happens. 

Q.  Are you getting a little more attention now for your love life than your tennis?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Sort of.  I mean, kind of being in magazines for that and not tennis is, you know, a little odd for me.  But it really doesn't bother me either way.  You know, tennis is my number one goal right now, and that's what I want to focus on. 

Q.  What are your goals? 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I want to be, you know, seeded for the Australian Open.  So going around next year would be Top 32, I think that's what it is.  And I'll just get better every day.

Q.  Just back to that for a second, are you kind of comfortable with the People magazine and that kind of...?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  It's fine.  I don't pay too much attention to it unless my friends always call me and bug me about it and say, "You're in this magazine this week," or they saw something on Extra.  But I don't pay too much attention to it. 

Q.  Does it help in a way to be friendly with someone who's also in the public eye? 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, she helps, you know, sometimes, and she's used to the media and all the pictures and all that.  She gives me some pointers here and there.

Q.  How did you meet? 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  She watched my match over in England against Rusedski on TV at the Queens Club.  Next day, she came out there and kind of got somebody to say, "Do you want me to meet Minnie Driver?"  I was like, "Sure."  And it happened.

Q.  So you're photogenic, huh?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah (smiling).

Q.  She see you drinking tea?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  No, wouldn't drink tea.

Q.  You were just like "Sure"?  You weren't surprised or anything?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I kind of said to myself, "Why me?"  Because I said, "You can meet Andy or, you know, Andre, or any of the guys."  I was the one picked.  I asked her why.  You know, she was just like, "I saw you playing on TV.  There's something about you, I wanted to meet you." 

Q.  You're not going to pull a Greg Rusedski, though, become a Brit?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  No, I don't think so.

Q.  You'd be quite welcome, you know.  They like you. 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  She'd become an American before I'd go British (smiling).

Q.  Does this relationship, because it's so high-profile, does it help your tennis career?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I don't think it's hurt it, even though she's come to about three or four matches.  I haven't won one that's she's been at (smiling).  But they've all been, you know, pretty tough matches.

Q.  You're not inviting her this week, I guess?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  She was here for Friday and Saturday, then she had to leave.  But she'll come up to the US Open.

Q.  Have you seen all her movies?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I've seen a few of her movies.  "Good Will Hunting", "Gross Pointe Blank", "Beautiful." 

Q.  You alluded to your fitness and conditioning, that you're concentrating on that.  From a superficial level, it's obvious the women have been doing quite a bit of that, focusing on it.  Do you think the men have prioritized that less than the women have in recent years?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  You know, I don't know what the women do.  You don't see them day in, day out.  But, you know, playing best-of-five sets for all the Grand Slams, you have to be in top-notch shape to get through the matches.  And to do that repetitively through a tournament, it's gonna take its toll on your body.  If you've been doing all the work off the court, I think you're gonna get the results like today or any other day. 

Q.  Obviously, you're going off for aerobics and endurance.  But is the strength factor important to you?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Uh-hmm.  I do weight training as well as a lot of cardio. 

Q.  Can you just look ahead to your potential next opponents and just talk about what the possibilities are. 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah.  Schuettler had a great week last week in Montreal.  He makes a lot of balls.  He's quick around the court, a great competitor.  Todd and I, we've never played, just in practice.  Kind of stayed at his house, he was kind of my mentor as I first started the tour.  He's a great guy.  You know, he's got a good serve, good volleys, and he knows the game better than anybody.

Q.  If it is Todd, the fact that he has been a bit of a mentor to you, does that make it easier or more difficult?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  You know, maybe a little more difficult because I respect him so much.  You know, I've seen him on TV as I was growing up. But, you know, either way, it's gonna be a tough match. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT