WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
July 28, 2008
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. GINEPRI/J. Bjorkman
6-0, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Facing Roger next. Tell us about the match a little bit. 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: Yeah, we played here a couple years ago and I actually took a set off him, so I know I can fare up pretty well against him. 
 It's going to be a difficult match obviously. I'll have to serve extremely well and be patient out there and try to attack his backhand when I can.

 Q. You must be hardened by the results. The last three times you've had really tight matches. 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: It'll always go to a tiebreaker or something. There's one or two points here, I have a couple breakpoint chances. But that's why he's No. 1. He always seems to squeak those matches out. Maybe tomorrow can be different for me.

 Q. Is there a good time to be playing him?
 ROBBY GINEPRI: This obviously would be the best time. Obviously first rounds are the most difficult in tournaments until you got your feet wet into the tournament. 
 After coming from a first round loss last week, and it's only the second hard court tournament. Maybe if he feels the pressure with the No. 1 ranking, be good chance for me tomorrow. 

 Q. With Jose kind of in the mix, is that going to add another dynamic to the match?
 ROBBY GINEPRI: Not really. When Jose approached me with the situation with Roger and I, he said to me, If you're not happy with this situation then I'll stop working with him. 
 So maybe I'll tell him that tonight, that I'm a little upset with the situation, and see what he says.

 Q. Is he going to be watching? 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: I'm sure he'll be in the stands. I don't think he'll be sitting in either of our boxes. 

 Q. How well do you feel about the way things have gone for you this season?
 ROBBY GINEPRI: I've had a lot of solid results. Usually I post a big result and then kind of go away for a couple months, but I've been pretty steady. Working pretty hard on the daily routine, which I think has gotten me back to where I am today. 
 I've had excellent coaching. I've just been extremely committed to the game outside of the court and on the court. It's a big bonus for me, and the hard work is definitely paying off. 

 Q. The stuff you mentioned, is there anything beyond that that you think has helped you not have the ups and downs? 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: Yeah, I think I've been enjoying the game a little bit more and enjoying my time on the court more, say. You know, I used to kind of fight practices sometimes and not have good days on the practice court and let hours go by where I'm not getting anything out of my game or the practice. 
 Now I'm just a little bit more focused, a little bit more driven to kind of get to my goal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT