NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 21, 2003
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Robby, good win.  Best win of your career?  You beat Safin last week.  He may have been weakened by something.  How does this stack up?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I think it's pretty high up there for me.  I didn't play nearly as well as I played against Safin, so it kind of meant more to me because I had to find another way to win rather than Safin was just missing.  But I had to actually earn it today against Alex tonight.

Q.  What did you do to find a way to win?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  The first set was tough for me.  I wasn't finding my range with the depth and I was missing a little more than I planned to.  It was really hot out there.  We were both sweating a lot.  It was hard to hold on to the racquet.  But I just hung in there and good things happened. 

Q.  Seems like last year a lot of, you know, there's been a lot of talk of how well you and Vahaly, all those other guys have done, Mardy.  Last year, you were losing these types of matches.  Now it's like you sort of have come over a hump and are getting on the other side of these things.  What's changed in that time?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Just last year I remember losing the close points.  This year and even a little of the end of last year, I was kind of winning the big points.  Matches come down to a point here, a point there.  Before, I would just go for it or make a stupid error or mistake.  But now I'm just kind of staying in the rally and just waiting for the good time to go for the shot.

Q.  Big-time serving, did you reach down for something there in the third set?  Did something click into place?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I just had a lot of confidence after winning the tiebreak.  I felt  -- I was feeling really good out there.  I was warm.  My body was really loose.  I was just going after the serve. 

Q.  Can you talk about your next match.

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, James.  We've played a couple times.  He got the best of me both times.  I know he's playing well and he's been doing well all year and last year.  I'm looking forward to it because he's a great guy on and off the court.  Should be a lot of fun.

Q.  He says if he wins, you'll move to Florida and if you win, he'll move to Georgia.  

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I don't think he'll move to Georgia, but I'll move to Florida.  It won't be based on this match, I'll tell you that. 

Q.  Were you serving so confidently, you were pumping up your second serve?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I kind of went for the second serve a little more because I wasn't double-faulting any throughout the match  - maybe one time.  But I was just going for the first serve.  If it didn't go, I was relying on the second serve.  He really wasn't attacking it too much so it kind of made me, you know, go after a little more. 

Q.  Do you think it would be good for your tennis if you did move to Florida so you could be with the other guys every day?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  I think it would help out maybe, but you never know until you go down there, so it's kind of hard to decide.  I'm going to move sooner or later.  Florida maybe, California, I don't know. 

Q.  Are you enjoying being called one of the "Wonderful New American Hopes"? 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  It doesn't really matter too much.  I try not to get caught up in that and just focus on the tennis. 

Q.  Are you thinking of getting closer to where Steve is going to be working? 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Possibility.  It would be nice to not be east coast, west coast with him. 

Q.  Long flight?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  It's a long flight back and forth.  But when we're together, it's great.

Q.  How often do you make that flight now? 

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Well, I don't go out there too much to train because I don't get too much time to train because there's been a lot of tournaments already this year.  But when I go out there, we probably only have two, three days, then we'd go to the next tournament.

Q.  Jetlag after a flight like that?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Not too much.  I can sleep well, so I just pass out on the flight. 

Q.  All you guys are really close, all these Americans.  How do you deal with that psychologically and then in the next couple days...

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I look at it in a positive way, only in a positive way.  Without Mardy and James, Robert Kendrick, Taylor, everybody, Andy, I wouldn't be the same out here.  I'd probably be lonely and in bad moods all the time.  With these guys around, we're always laughing, giggling, it's good times with all of us.  I think everybody enjoys it, the company and, you know, it's a good thing for me.

Q.  Who will you practice and warm up with before the match?

ROBBY GINEPRI:  Today, I hit with my coach, so I might do that again. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT