US OPEN
September 10, 2000
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Robby.  
 
Q. How would you assess today's match? 
 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: First game of my serve was real important to win that game. Andy made me
hit a lot of balls starting off. I was kind of thinking he'd go for it a little more. But
he served well throughout the match. I just tried to do too much at the wrong time.  
 
Q. How about just the tournament as a whole? You were coming in trying to find out
where you stand against other top Juniors in the world. What do you feel you learned
during the week in terms of where you stand?
 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: I feel a lot more confident level-wise where I am now. Andy gave me a
few things to work on when I get back. Just learned from this tournament a lot.  
 
Q. What is it that he gave you to work on?
 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: Just to not go for as many shots as I should have, and work the point
more. I need to serve a lot better than I have been, work on my serve. I mean, he serves
great. 
 
Q. Did he talk to you about that?
 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: Who, Andy?  
 
Q. You were saying he gave you things to work on. 
 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: No, no, no. That's what I picked up from the match. I'm sure my coach
has a few more things. I haven't spoke to him yet.  
 
Q. Are you surprised at all by where you are this year as compared to last year, having
just won the 16's, a finalist in the 18's, get to the finals here?
 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: Sure. Last year I wouldn't have thought I would be in the finals of the
Juniors US Open. I just want to keep improving my game, not worry about results too much.
That's basically what happened. 
 
Q. Can you put Andy's serve in perspective for us? How much better is it than that of
the average 18-year-old junior?
 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: One, he disguises it well. I couldn't read it throughout most of the
match. A few times I caught on. Two, he just hits it so much harder than any other junior
besides Joakim Johansson. He hits it pretty hard. You can probably read it. His second
serve is like some of the first serves from most guys. 
 
Q. I read somewhere where you were touching up on your trigonometry. Are you way behind
in school?
 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: Yeah. I missed about three weeks. Go to school tomorrow. Not looking too
forward to that. I have to at least graduate high school. 
 
Q. Why are you not looking forward to it?
 
 ROBBY GINEPRI: I'm so far behind. I have so much work to catch up, tests, teachers, not
looking forward to that.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT