U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2007
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Good job, Robby. 
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Thanks. 

 Q.  Kind of a long outing out there? 
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Long, slow death for me tonight.  It was definitely a match I should have taken away with the W, but, you know, you learn a lot from those matches.  So I'll will move on and keep going after it. 

 Q.  Can you assess this close to it what you learned from it or do you have kind of think about it? 
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  No, I mean, he pretty much controlled the tempo of the whole match, and I was letting that aggravate me throughout the match.  He was taking his bathroom breaks and taking time between points.  It was getting to me out there.  That's something that I can always go back and work on. 
 You know, I felt I was very tentative with high shots tonight.  I saw that he was cramping out there a little bit.  So I was a little passive with how I was playing, and didn't go after the points and the balls the way I should have been.  That's another thing I can reach back and work on doing, just focusing on what I have to do out there instead of worrying about the opponent. 

 Q.  Did you feel like the your game's coming together like 2005, but maybe a little consistency? 
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I feel like I'm hitting the ball better than I was then.  Still trying to put things together like out on the practice court.  I was working on a lot of volleys and stuff and it showed tonight that I missed a good bit at some key times.  But I'm doing all the right things so I'm not too worried about this. 

 Q.  Would you say this is your best showing so far for the year? 
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I guess walking away with this loss I'm definitely pleased with the amount of effort that I put in the weeks leading up to this event, and also how I carried myself throughout this whole tournament.  Tonight was a test for me, but I can take some good things out of it and worry about that. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT