U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2007
Robby Ginepri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Nice work, 75 minutes.  Like a set for some of those other guys today.   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I know, trying to get out of here early today.  Definitely makes it a lot easier to compete later in tournaments when you get through rounds like this today.   
  
  Q.  What do you have going later?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I don't want to share.  If I know right now, I would tell you guys.   
 Just playing solid basically.   
  
  Q.  What was working for you?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I served really well today.  I haven't served this well in a long time.  Forgot how easy it is to win points when you're serving so well (smiling).   
 I returned pretty well.  I didn't know too much about this guy coming into the match, so it was kind of a little tough starting off.  But I broke him his first game.  Got broke right back.  But, you know, hung in there.  He gave me a lot of free points at the beginning of the first set.   
 But when he connects, he's a tough player.  It showed out there, why he can upset some guys.   
  
  Q.  With the season you've had, how do you explain what's going on here?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I'm not really paying attention to the beginning of the year anymore (smiling).  Just one day at a time.  That's how I'm taking it.   
  
  Q.  You're 10-15 in the other three Slams, 12-6 here.  That's almost ridiculous.   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I play extremely well, for some reason, here.  I don't know to be exact.   
  
  Q.  You must have thought about it.   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I guess it's just the atmosphere here that really gets me going.  I love competing here.  I always hit the ball extremely well.  Before I come into this event, I feel confident.   
 I've showed I could play here a couple years ago.  I know that, in the back of my mind, that I can do well here.   
  
  Q.  Is 2005 something that sustains you maybe when things aren't going so well?  That's your best Grand Slam to date.   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, definitely.  I can at least always go back to those memories, pick out the good shots, pick out the matches that I competed so hard in, fought through those five-setters and got through.  It definitely means a lot to me, winning those matches.  When I'm still training hard, trying to get to the top again, I can pull those matches off again.   
  
  Q.  What went wrong specifically at the beginning of the year?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  I always use this term, I just wasn't "motivated."  But it was the same again.  I wasn't working hard on the court.  I was a little sick at the beginning of the year, some issues.   
 But, you know, I'm back in rare form again.  I'm looking forward to keep going here.   
  
  Q.  You and John Isner -- well, he played in Georgia, you're from there.  What do you think about his chances against Federer tomorrow?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, I actually saw him in the locker room about 20 minutes ago.  I was talking to him about the match tomorrow, saying, You can do it.  I was like, You got to serve well to beat him.  I was like, You already do it, so it's a plus (smiling).   
 He's a little anxious to get out there.  It's going to be fun to watch.  But he's got to believe that he can upset Federer if he has a chance.   
  
  Q.  Do you think he does?   
 ROBBY GINEPRI:  With a serve like that, anyone's got a chance.  You know, it's tough to ever doubt what Roger can do out there.  It will be an interesting match, put it that way.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT