NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 29, 2005
Robert Horry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You had hit more 3-pointers than anyone but Reggie.  You are mentioned in the breath now with all these Hall of Fame players.  You say you don't think about it, but at some point it must enter your mind the kind of career you have been able to carve out?

ROBERT HORRY:  Be honest with you, it really hasn't.  I hate talking about it because I am really superstitious about it and I think I am going to get jinxed about stuff like that.  I am just happy enough to get twos.  I always look back at people like Barkley, Ewing, great All-Star players who had a chance -- here I am and I am very, very fortunate. 

Q.  You guys are doing a great job of maintaining focus in staying hungry.  How do you guys continue to do that when you are in such a comfort zone right now?

ROBERT HORRY:  We're not in a comfort zone.  It might look like we're in a comfort zone because we're up 3-0.  But we know anything is possible.  We're playing a very capable team that can score a lot of points and get hot at any moment.  We just go into this straight, stay hard and focused and try and play good defense.

Q.  Manu (Ginobili) says you guys, if you see a teammate that seems relaxed, you go up and talk to him, Pop is going make sure you guys are fired up, each individual's responsibility to keep themselves pumped --

ROBERT HORRY:  I think so because we don't really have any vocal leaders like a lot of teams do, we just have a lot of guys that lead by example.  So I think in that case we just take it upon ourselves to lead ourselves and go out and say, hey, this is a chance for us to do something spectacular, just keep focused, stay humble and stay hungry.

Q.  How good is Tim (Duncan) compared to Shaq and Dream?

ROBERT HORRY:  Tim is good, but if you had to label him, it's hard to label him because each person brought a different thing to the game.  To pick the best, you had to go with Dream because he did some of the things Shaq did; he does some of the things Tim does.  He has a combination of both of them, so you had to look at him as probably being the best, plus he is the all-time shot blocker.

Q.  Does this team take on his personality or is it Pop's personality?

ROBERT HORRY:  I don't think it is Pop's personality (laughter.)  I think it's just more of Tim's personality.  We just have a lot of low-key guys who enjoy playing the game of basketball, going out, having fun and pumping up their teammates in certain subtle little ways.

Q.  Does this feel anything familiar to you like Houston, like L.A., this run you guys are on right now?

ROBERT HORRY:  It actually does.  It feels a little bit like the run we had at L.A. when we went 16 and 1, whatever it was.  Guys are playing good together.  Guys are understanding their roles.  Guys are understanding the situations at hand.  And when teams like run at it, we're able to withstand their runs and battle back and play good D.  So if we can keep this roll on, it's good, extremely good.

Q.  Anything about Tim (Duncan) that's surprised you --

ROBERT HORRY:  It's mostly off-the-court stuff.  He's a very fun guy.  He talks more in the locker room than I thought he would.  I thought he was this quiet guy sitting in the corner saying stuff every once in a while, but he's a very vocal guy.  He's starting to get on my nerves (laughs).

Q.  What about him going from the line last night?  You talk about up and down. 

ROBERT HORRY:  Oh, yeah, that's another reason that I always put Dream ahead of those guys because Dream shot free throws -- Tim started out his career out shooting extremely well, then he had this little lull, I don't want to talk about it and jinx him.  Hopefully he keeps it going, because if he comes out going -- it's going to be hard to beat us. 

Q.  We have seen limitations a little bit of Phoenix's style where they were kind of having -- having some of this all offense, no defense or occasional defense, when you get in these playoffs, is that the limitations --

ROBERT HORRY:  I think it was working for them.  You have certain things that work for you.  I think they just have come across a team that's gotten hot here and we're playing extremely well above -- beyond our capabilities, I think, at some moments.  But it's all about catching fire and playing a team at the right moment.

Q.  If they were as good a defensive team as you guys are, that would be a pretty scary thing?

ROBERT HORRY:  Yeah, that would be scary, but we still have our faults too.  We have a lot of mistakes, still giving up 100 points to these guys, so --

Q.  Is that what keeps you from getting overconfident even though you are up 3-0?

ROBERT HORRY:  Exactly.  Because they have high-powered offense, they can do a lot of things on the offense.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT