NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 22, 2005
Robert Horry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Brent says you talked to him about kind of the struggles he had in Seattle kind of similar to what maybe you went through with the Lakers last year.  What was that conversation about and like?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  I just told him I said the tough part is over.  I didn't have the chance like he had to go through the next round because you know, people don't realize that even though you played on a team, you like those guys, but you want to beat them more than anybody and you have so much adrenaline flowing through your body that it throws your game off.  I said the hard part is over now just go out there and play basketball.  
 
Q.  All the focus going -- this is about Spurs big three, the Suns big three, I guess, will this be decided with guys like you and Jim Jackson possibly for them?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  Who knows what is going to happen.  That team is so unpredictable.  They got a lot of guys who knows -- next game Shawn Marion, I don't know, maybe the next game doing his thing.  It's going to be up to us to just have a total team effort.  It not going to be up to three of our guys stepping up.  It's got to be a total team effort.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  We're a defensive team.  When you're known as a defensive team you don't expect them to be able to score.  But we got some scores on that team, especially the way Brent shot that ball tonight and Tony did his thing and Manu too.  We're going to put some points up.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  It's a lot of teams need to execute.  I think it's easy to execute when you got a man like Tim in the middle. 
 
Q.  How does a defensive team score 43 in a fourth quarter?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  I don't know, (laughs) but I looked at it, saw that we scored 43 in the fourth.  I was very amazed.  That's better than what we usually do in the fourth.  We usually have like 13, 16, 18.  I will take 43 any day as long as we outscored the opponent.  
 
Q.  Defensively, though, when you see 114 for the opposition, how could you guys feel about that?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  It's going to happen with this team.  They play fast pace.  They go down sometimes three seconds off the shot clock and they put the ball up.  That's going to give us more opportunities to shoot the ball.  People are going to think that we're not playing D because they are scoring a lot of points, it is just the game is pushed up a little bit. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT