NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 21, 2007
Robert Horry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Were you surprised at how many points as a team you guys were able to get in the paint last night? 
 ROBERT HORRY:  Oh, yeah, especially a great defensive team like Utah, especially a team that's big inside.  We got  great shot blocking, you have the other guys testing Boozer.  We got two good guys to score a lot of points in the paint.  Hopefully we can do it again. 

 Q.  How do you avoid complacency? 
 ROBERT HORRY:  Being a veteran team, I don't think we will run into that.  We know what we've got to do.  That's one of the things you love about a veteran ball club.  You know what you have to do.  You have to compete, respect your opponent and try to get things done quickly and play hard. 

 Q.  Any sense of what happened with Dallas last year in Game 2?  Is fatigue also playing into the role?  Is there any sense of that happening again? 
 ROBERT HORRY:  I hope not.  That was last year, so it is a totally different situation.  I think we learned from that situation and we can go out and handle it. 
 The good thing about us is we have a deep bench and we don't have to worry about fatigue.  Just have to keep them off the boards.  If we can do that, fatigue won't be a problem. 

 Q.  Can you tell the big three were getting a little tired last night and the team needed a day to rest? 
 ROBERT HORRY:  You can probably say that.  I just think it had a lot to do with Utah knocking the rust off.  They have been sitting around waiting on us for a while.  Sometimes it takes a quarter, a half, to figure out your opponent.  I think they figured us out and started exploiting our weaknesses. 
 That's the good thing about having a day in between, we can see what they did and stop that.  I don't think fatigue had a factor.  They started playing better and we started playing worse. 

 Q.  How much different is Williams as far as point guards and what he presents than Nash? 
 ROBERT HORRY:  The funny thing about Williams, you never know what you are going to get out of him.  He is such a great player.  He can get people around him the ball or he can go for his. 
 You never know, the next game he might be passing the ball and getting Boozer open shots, Okur open shots.  You never know.  He is a great all-around basketball player.  I think he is one of the players in the league that best goes out and whatever is given to him, he takes it. 

 Q.  Tony was throwing around the words like we need to take their hope from them.  Have you talked about that going up 2-0? 
 ROBERT HORRY:  I don't know what Tony is talking about.  I just think we've got to establish ourselves.  Every team is always going to have hope.  I think we need to establish ourselves and let them know we can play at home and they are not going to come here and get an easy win and let them know we are a better ball club.  We are here to try to win another championship, get back to the Finals. 
 I think every club is always going to have hope.  As long as there is time left on the clock, you will have hope. 

 Q.  Do you have any chance of winning the rebounding battle?  That's their strength and they are so strong. 
 ROBERT HORRY:  I think we can.  If you look at it, we are just as good of rebounders as they are.  They had a great rebounding game last game.  I think the three games we played them this year, they won one, we won two.  It is a matter of getting back in there, getting off the boards. 
 We have a tendency as big men to go straight to the rebound and they take some outside shots and we have to box them out.  Do like New York style. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT