NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 23, 2005
Robert Horry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Robert, has it hit you what you've been able to accomplish in your career now, not only the Championship tonight but six rings, three different teams, and the three different teams, only one other player has ever done that, John Salley, has that hit you, the career you've been able to put together?

ROBERT HORRY:  It hasn't.  When you win a championship, period, it never hits you until you get home the next day.  You're so overwhelmed right now that you don't know, it's just a whirlwind and you wake up tomorrow, turn the TV on and you see the Spurs win the Championship, that's when it really hits you. 

Q.  The emotions right now, you have been through it before, obviously, it's not a new thing for you, but can you just describe what going through your heart, what this one means to you, coming back after a disappointing Game 6?

ROBERT HORRY:  I just have to sit down and re-evaluate.  It's special because of the Championship, you're always going to love the Championship no matter what.  I've just got to sit back and read the paper, see what y'all are talking about and assess where I put this one. 

Q.  Is this the game ball and have you got it because you're like the older guy?

ROBERT HORRY:  No, I got it because everybody was jumping up and down and I ran out and got it.  (Laughter).  My last Championship, I gave the ball to Mitch because, you know, Mitch Richmond was a special player to me, I always thought he was wonderful and it was his first championship.  I thought about giving it to T-Man (phonetic) because he's been in the league for so long, but I said no, I want this one for myself.  It's my sixth championship, I wanted to keep it for myself.

Q.  You mentioned a day or two ago that right now you would rank Tim Duncan as the third best big name you've played with, would you care to change that now? 

ROBERT HORRY:  No.  (Laughter) This is why -- this is why, I won two with Kareem, three with Shaq.  Now if he wins it for me next year, he'll be top. 

Q.  Can you talk about his play down the stretch and how huge it was for you guys? 

ROBERT HORRY:  Man, from jump street, Tim came out, and, oh, he's ready tonight, let's go, we're going to ride him, he went through a spell where he wasn't scoring and then all of a sudden he hit his shots and he got the job done down the stretch where he scored five in a row.  He did his thing, came out tonight and shed a lot of doubts.  All right, peace out. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT