NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 15, 2005
Bruce Bowen
Robert Horry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Do you feel that the momentum has shifted in this series?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  Momentum never shifts in this series.  Everybody has momentum.  It's just who goes out and plays well.  We're in their building, they are going to play well.  We just have to try to withstand their pushes and come out and play with some aggression and not turn the ball over.  
 
Q.  What specific adjustments do you feel like you need to make to combat that aggressiveness you saw in that Detroit defense last night? 
 
ROBERT HORRY:  Just got to be more basic.  A lot of our turnovers were trying to be too fancy, a lot of our turnovers were in a rush.  We just have to be basic and poised.  We kind of tried to break too fast instead of being more poised with it and executing.  
 
Q.  Pop says it's easy to react after a loss, do you agree with that?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  I think so.  It's easy to react after a win, too.  It's just how you go in with the outlook, and right now, you know, we have to go in with a positive outlook because we are in a hostile environment and do the things that we need to do to get wins, and that's not turn the ball over and keep them off the offensive boards. 
 
Q.  Was what they did last night more strategic or was it just energy?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  I think it was a little bit of both.  I think it was more just being in their building in their comfort zone.  In their building they play extremely well and they get a lot of energy from these fans.  When they started the game off, he got a dunk and a free throw, that gave their crowd a lot of energy and they gave that to the team and that pushed them to a victory.  
 
Q.  The only time you've lost two in a row was at Seattle in the postseason, is there anything that you can take from that experience that you learned not to have another two-game losing streak?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  Well, you can take something from it, but we're playing a totally different team.  We're playing a better ballclub, a better defensive club so, we've just got to push on and be mentally focused and be solid.  You know, that's the one thing that hurt us, we wasn't very solid with the basketball. 
 
Q.  A lot of tough calls? 
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  That happens in the game.  You take away some of our turnovers and some of our mental mistakes and maybe those tough calls aren't much of an issue.  
 
Q.  What was the big difference for them last night? 
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  Well, we knew that they were going to come out and play hard and play well in their home.  So, you know, you understand that they are going to have the energy at home, just as we had our energy at home.  It's a matter of us bringing our energy on the visitors' court now.  
 
Q.  Is there any one player that stand out in your mind that set the tone?
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  I think Ben did.  It's like you watch the game, you watch the first part of the game, Ben gets a steal, the dunk.  That's not how you want to start off a game away from home.  That just energizes their team.  That picks their team up and makes them more heightened and more hyper.  
 
Q.  You didn't have the ball movement and you guys were not moving the ball offensively and you didn't have the creativity that you had in the first two games from an offensive standpoint. 
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  Okay.  What's the question?  
 
Q.  Do you agree with that?
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  Oh, yeah, I agree.  
 
Q.  Why is that?  Why after the first two games of moving the ball so well, creating good shots, you didn't have that last night?
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  Well, I think part of it, you have to give credit to Detroit and their physical style of play it.  Kind of took us out of some of the things we were trying to do.  You know, sometimes when that happens, it isn't as easy as moving the ball as you once did before.  
 
Q.  On a scale of 1 to 10, how would you describe the intensity for Game 4?  What you can you anticipate? 
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  Well, you know what happens when you assume certain things, and I definitely don't want to do that, but, you know, we understand we have to come out with a better effort, better energy as well, pay attention to detail and taking care of the basketball, those things, you can expect, I think if not the same, a little bit more from Detroit.  Because they are at home, you know, they want to get the victory on their home court.  They set some good screens, it's what they do.  They ran their offense well, but, you know, part of it is miscommunication and that's what I mean as far as faltering in certain areas where I shouldn't have.  
 
Q.  Rip was saying he thought that that took a toll because they were getting better screens and better contact with you. 
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  It happens.  With your good shooters, you want to set them free and that's what they did.  They did a good job of executing that, and you give credit where credit is due.  Rip had a great game last night and he's capable of that and I understand that.  At the same time, I understand. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT