NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 10, 2005
Robert Horry
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.You had some easy layups, a couple of dunks, no fear last night, no intimidating presence on the Pistons' behalf?
 
TONY PARKER:  I don't know what you're talking about easy, especially the first half, they played defense and we only scored 35 points.  Finally in the second half we got a little bit of energy, some baskets and gave us some confidence.  It's tough out there.  Every time I penetrate, they hit us, they grab us and it's going to be very, very -- we just have to be very, very aggressive but it's not easy.  
 
Q.  So I'm wrong thinking that their interior presence was lacking last night?
 
TONY PARKER:  Definitely.  They played pretty good defense overall.  We just made some baskets in the fourth quarter.  Manu hit some big threes and that's what made a difference, but overall they played great defense. 
 
Q.  Your matchup with Chauncey is pretty key in the series, after one game, how do you feel about that matchup? 
 
TONY PARKER:  Chauncey played well last night.  He hit some baskets early in the game to get his confidence going and then he played a solid game to make sure that he got some easy baskets to get his confidence going.  Overall, maybe I just have to do better, pressure him a little bit more, maybe like Steve Nash and try to get him tired and do the best I can.  
 
Q.  Him (Billups) scoring 25, is that something you guys can live with, considering you held them to 69? 
 
TONY PARKER:  Yeah, because the other guys didn't get involved that much, and Rip had a tough night, but I'm sure Rip is going to shoot better and Rasheed is going to get more touches.  I think we have to control Chauncey a little bit more and try to do the same thing on Rip and Rasheed but we know it's going to be tough. 
 
ROBERT HORRY:  His ability to tolerate Pop, I don't say that in a bad way, everybody has to tolerate Pop but Pop can get on you.  As a young player sometimes that can be frustrating.  I know Beno is going through that right now because Pop just wants the best out of you.  He's going to be on you hard, I mean really hard, so if you have the mental toughness to take that, you're going to develop well as a player and I think own Tony has a mental toughness and he's developed extremely well as a player.  
 

Q.  Can a lot of young players take that?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  Not a lot of young players can take that because as a young player, you can be cocky, come in with an attitude, but it's all about getting better.  I think if you have the willingness to get better like Tony has, you're going to be all right.  
 
Q.  His international background, does he share any of that with you guys? 
 
ROBERT HORRY:  No, he just asks us a lot of political questions we don't know the answer to.  He goes and watches CNN and he then he comes back with these questions.  You have to ask him.  He'll be asking me and I'll turn my back and walk away because I don't know anything about politics.  
 
Q.  They say coaches grate on players, sooner or later they clean you out, how is it that he's avoided that for so many years?
 
ROBERT HORRY:  I think that has a lot to do with who he had on the team.  You know, you have one of the great centers in David (Robinson) and you have a great presence in Tim, with those guys, you can't do anything but follow the lead.  I think when you have great players on your team, and they pay attention, everybody else will follow.  When you get one that wants to do his own thing, then you've got trouble.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT