MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Michael Weaver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   I'm committed to go to the USGA, they have a dinner thing tonight at Augusta Country Club.   I'll be there.   Other than that, I don't have any plans.   Just hang out, maybe hang around here or something.   But no, I'm not playing tomorrow.   Maybe I'll watch a little bit.   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to stick around for the weekend, no matter what?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, I think so.   Our flights are Monday.   I doubt we'll change them, with how many people are with us.   We don't need to go to school on Monday anyway.   I might as well stay, I don't know when I'll get back here again.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the week, what stands out.   
MICHAEL WEAVER:   It was fun, I'm disappointed I'm not going to make the cut.   But I played a little better on the back nine today.   I couldn't make anything.   I hit a lot of good shots, just had a bunch of 20 footers that I just 2‑putted.   Kind of frustrating at times.   
But I finished good at least, birdied 15 and 18.   I would have liked to have made a few more.   I think I hit almost every green.   I was hitting good shots, but just didn't really convert anything.   
Yesterday I spent too many stupid mistakes.   You can't make four sixes and shoot a good score ever.   That bogey at that par‑5 today‑‑ I think I played the fives over par.   I think that's the big thing.   For being a longer hitter, I sure squandered a lot of good opportunities on the par‑5s.   
It sucks, but I'll learn from it.   But I think a couple of them, I bogeyed 8 both days, maybe I shouldn't have gone for it with the pin location.   But I bogeyed another one yesterday or I bogeyed 13 yesterday.   And I threw in two doubles yesterday.   Just can't really afford to do that.   
I told myself before, if I didn't make any double bogeys, I think I would, regardless of how things went, I would have made the cut.   Because if I make don't make doubles, I can recover from it.   But the penalty shots and the doubles and the sixes and fives is just a recipe for the weekend off.   
   
 Q.   Go through the birdie on 18.   
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, 15, first hit it right in the trees, punched out, had about 110 or so.   I hit a sand wedge there to about five or six feet.   Made that.   
And then 18, driver, pitching wedge, had 142 I think in.   I hit that to five feet and made that.  
   
 Q.   Score's a little higher today.   Do you think that's just from the field or do you think that's ‑‑ what do you think that has to do with?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   It's a little windier today.   It's a little more difficult wind as well.   I don't know, some of the harder holes‑‑ like 1 was downwind yesterday, that definitely seems to help, you're hitting a shorter club into 1 and I hit a little straighter tee shot yesterday.   
And it was blowing at the bunker to where the bunker is in play for everybody who misses it, you come up short of the bunker, that's really no bargain.   And the pin on 1 was tough.   The pins were tough the first seven or eight holes I would say on really the front nine, there was some tricky pins.   I thought it was hard to get close on the front nine, judging by the scores I saw on the board out there, it seemed like guys were kind of struggling through the front nine, didn't look like anyone on the big board was under par on the front.   
So tough pins.   Back nine was a little more getable.   I just needed to make putts to do it.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit into 1 today and what did you hit in yesterday?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yesterday I hit a 52 degree wedge, I had like 130, downwind.   
Today I hit it in the trees right, chipped outside ways and I had 7‑iron from 170.   So I basically gave away a shot there.   Hitting it in the trees.   I had to go straight side ways.  
   
 Q.   So you're looking about playing 30, 40 yards longer?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Oh, at least.   Part of it was I teed off a little later in the day and it was warmer, down wind, and I think I was a little excited too and I hit it pretty far.   I was like 40 yards past Ben Curtis and I wasn't that far past him the rest of the tournament.  
   
 Q.   15, did you lay up?   Were you in the fairway or did you lay up then so you couldn't get there or were you in the trees?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   I laid up because I was in the trees on 15.   I hit it right, but I was blocked out to where I hit through kind of a gap and that was about all I could do.   
   
 Q.   Was it into the wind today?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   15 was.   13, yeah, it was into the wind too.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT