MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Michael Weaver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All the months anticipating this, now to have the first round in the book, what was it like?
MICHAEL WEAVER:   It was a lot of fun.   It was kind of frustrating at times, but a little nervous out there, a little nervous on 1.   But got off to a good start and kind of thought it would be smooth sailing after that, but I was kind of, that was kind of where the disaster started.   I had four 6s today.   That's never good. 
That's the way it goes.   But you can't be ‑‑ I'm bummed, but I can't be too disappointed.   I need to play well tomorrow and anything can happen, maybe make the cut.   But, I don't know, that's the way it goes sometimes. 

Q.   What were the nerves like on the first tee?
MICHAEL WEAVER:   I don't know how to describe it.   I guess I was excited and, I don't know, it was kind of surreal being here as an amateur, just making it here, first Masters and all that.   I don't know. 

Q.   Where did you hit it?
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Down the middle.   I hit a great tee shot.   One of the best tee shots of the day, unfortunately.   After that I should have just said, you know, I was nervous all day.   I probably would have shot about 5‑under or not 6‑over.   But I kind of settled down, but I don't know, it happens, it's golf. 

Q.   You made pars first two holes, right?
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, par, par.   Then I got into trouble.

Q.   What happened on 3?
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Hit it in the left bunker, caught it a little thin coming out and it went long right, which is absolutely the worst possible spot. 
From there, I chipped it through the fairway and it rolled down in a little bowl, didn't get up‑and‑down from there.   Just missed my bogey putt.   A quick six. 
And then after that, par‑4, I think I had a five. 
I made a stupid bogey on 8. 
I bogeyed two of the par‑5s.   Me hitting it that far you can't afford to do that. 

Q.   It's a lot easier to get in that kind of trouble though on this course. 
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, absolutely.   I didn't feel like I played that poorly.   It's just the course is hard and if you hit it in the wrong spots, it seemed like I was great at finding kind of the wrong spots today, it seemed like.   All the humps around the greens, it's tough, you have to be very precise. 
I didn't feel like I was that far off, it was just, I don't know, I was hitting it far and I think I was kind of having a little trouble with my distance.   I think I was just a little excited or something.   That's the way it goes, I guess.

Q.   Any particularly good moments that you, when you think back to this round?
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, birdieing 9 was kind of cool.   I hit my drive a little right, I was in the rough and then I hit a good shot, just a little too far.   I was on the back fringe and I made about a, I don't know, 20‑footer.   A double breaker.

Q.   Going down hill?
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, it came down on top of the hole, fortunately.   I think it would have been about six feet by.   There was not much I could really do to stop it.   It caught the hole and went in.   That was kind of cool.   It kind of turned it around, because I bogeyed 8 and I felt like I got one back. 

Q.   There's not many downhill putts on 9 that go in the hole. 
MICHAEL WEAVER:   No, I know.   That would be kind of the highlight of the day.   Birdieing 9.   Other than that, I don't know. 

Q.   Finishing on 18.   That was good. 
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, that was good.   I was glad to do better there.   Better to finish with par than bogey, I guess.   But I just need to play well tomorrow, hopefully and see what happens.

Q.   Hear much from the gallery or "Go Bears"?
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, I heard a lot of that today.   A lot of "Go Bears".   I tell you, that was probably what 70 percent of the people said to me today.

Q.   Who was here with you?   Your parents, obviously. 
MICHAEL WEAVER:   My parents, my girlfriend, my sister, my swing coach, my aunt, two of my aunts, two of my uncles or, two of my uncles and at least one of my aunts.   I haven't even seen the other one.   She was maybe driving down from Atlanta.   And then three high school friends, actually, and I believe that's it.

Q.   Can you separate the‑‑ we talked about this before, but just the excitement and the uniqueness of being here at 21 from the frustration of shooting 6‑over?
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, it's kind of hard now, but I'm sure that later it will still feel pretty cool.   I'm pretty lucky to be here.   But I'm pretty competitive too, I don't really like find satisfaction in, oh, you made it here.   I celebrated that back in August.   It's April now.

Q.   Last thing was the cut.   As you know, they changed the format, they added some more spots.   I can't imagine you're complaining about that. 
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Not at all.   I don't really think it's going to make a difference, probably.   If it does, it's a shot, if not two.   I mean, it's only six spots different.   Yeah.

Q.   But that's probably, obviously, part of what you said and then the low amateur?
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, it's favorable for the position I'm in right now, it sure helps.   But yeah, I think realistically it's not really much of a change.   From 44 to 50, I mean the top, the 10 of them would be leaving anyway so it's not really a big deal it seems like.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT