MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2013
Michael Weaver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   If you don't mind, just talk about your experience?   What's it like?   
MICHAEL WEAVER:   It's been incredible so far.   Got here on Saturday afternoon and played Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and today.   I've played with some pretty cooled guys.   I played with Fuzzy Zoeller in the par‑3 and then I played with him Sunday, as well.   So I played 9 holes with him.   
And I played Jason Dufner.   I played with Nick Watney and Luke Donald Tuesday, and then played with Rory McIlroy and Robert Garrigus today.   So it's been pretty cool.   
   
 Q.   I heard that you came here a few years ago.   Did you ever think that you would be back this soon?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   No, not this soon.   I mean, I didn't think I would be 21 or 22years old when I started.   I came back here.   It's pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   I saw that you got to meet Condoleezza Rice?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How was that?   
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, it was pretty cool.   I met her earlier in the week, and then we had‑‑ at the amateur dinner, I talked to her a little bit there, and then saw her at the 5th or 6th hole, I believe it was.   It was cool.   
   
 Q.   How are your nerves going to be tomorrow?   
MICHAEL WEAVER:   I don't know.   I mean, I think I will be nervous, but I will hopefully be under control.   Hit a good tee shot on 1, and then hopefully from there it will be easy.  
   
 Q.   Has the course surprised you in any way since you have been out here and got to play it a few times?   What do you think of the course?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   The course is awesome.   It's tough.   But, you know, if you are hitting it well and you put yourself in some good spots to make some birdies, but there are some holes that you play decent on a little bit.   I really like the course a lot.   I feel like if I play well, hopefully I can post some good scores.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any goals?   I mean, is low amateur, is that something that you are looking for?   
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, I would hope to be low amateur.   I feel like if I play well, I've got a shot at it.   Hopefully get the low amateur, make the cut, have fun on the weekend.   That would be awesome.  
   
 Q.   You turned 22 on‑‑  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   On Friday, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Can you think about what would be a good birthday present for this week?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Yeah, a tee time on Saturday. That's about it.  
   
 Q.   Did the guys you played with give you any advice?  
MICHAEL WEAVER:   In the practice rounds?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
MICHAEL WEAVER:   Not really.   I mean, they kind of told me where‑‑ some guys told me where not to hit it or where to come in to certain greens from, but other than that I was just kind of talking to them.   I didn't really pick their brain for advice a whole lot.   We were just out there having fun and doing our thing.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT