KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY GEICO
May 20, 2018
Lauren Coughlin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That last hole leave a bad taste in your mouth?
LAUREN COUGHLIN: Yeah, I mean, all day just couldn't really get anything going.  It was rough, but played well overall.
I'm happy with my overall.
Q. Was 17 your best opportunity?
LAUREN COUGHLIN: No.  I had opportunities -- I mean, on the front nine I had three or four in the first five holes; just didn't drop anything.
17 I had another one.
Yeah, same thing that happened on the first day where I just couldn't really get anything going.
It's all right.
Q. When you think about - I know obviously 18 - but just overall, being here, what is it, your third money check in a row?
LAUREN COUGHLIN: Yeah, three cuts in a row.
Q. Do you feel like you're trending in the right direction?
LAUREN COUGHLIN: Yeah, definitely.  Definitely.  I'm going to take two weeks off here and get ready to go for the long six-week stretch and hopefully have some good momentum going into that.
Q. (Regarding first bogey.)
LAUREN COUGHLIN: I hit it right on 11 into the trees; I tried to keep it low under some trees and tried to get it close to the green and I hit the tree like dead center and kicked it -- and actually was fine because I had a good shot to the green.
I just barely missed a 15-footer to save par.
Q. When did you play here as a junior?  All the time?
LAUREN COUGHLIN: Not all the time, but, I mean, I played here -- they had an AJGA event here I think summer before my senior year.  I think.  You'll have to double check that, but I think it was the summer before my senior year of high school.
Actually, Brian Bailey, our assistant coach, watched me on the first nine and I shot 40, and then he left and I shot 30 on the back nine.  Of course when he wasn't there.
But he said he saw enough when I shot 40.  I'm like, You missed it.
Q. This was the UVA assistant...
LAUREN COUGHLIN: Yeah.  He was my assistant coach my first three years.
Q. Okay.  Is it special to play here as a pro and have your husband -- I mean, that's got to be pretty special for you.
LAUREN COUGHLIN: Yeah, no, definitely.  It's nice because we have like a two-hour drive home after this.  I'll be home by 7:00 and be sleeping in my bed.  Yeah, no, it's really nice.
I had a bunch of people from -- like, John's mom, my mother-in-law and my brother-in-law came out because they live in Richmond.  And then some people from the club that I grew up playing at in Chesapeake came up and watched.
So, yeah, I still had a good amount of people who came, which was really cool.  My parents couldn't make it, but I at least had some people.
Q. Have you thought about your share of the cut and how big it may be this week?  Share of the purse, I mean.
LAUREN COUGHLIN: What place am I?  Probably like 50th, now.
Q. Somewhere around there.
LAUREN COUGHLIN: Yeah, I'll probably make four or five, something like that.
Q. It'll help.
LAUREN COUGHLIN: I'll be able to pay my credit card bill.  (Laughter.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT