ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 20, 2012
Mark Turgeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  MARK TURGEON:   Looking forward to Miami.   Had a great game with them down there, one that they came out on top in double overtime.   Every time I watch Miami‑‑ they have got a lot of talent.   Of course Kadji did not play against us and they added another kid, Garrius Adams, is starting to play for them now.   Team has got great depth and great talent and starting to play their best basketball. 

Q.   Watching both games last week, seemed that Nick Faust has found himself a level of playthat ‑‑ his third straight game and fifth game in a row.   Is that how you see it and is he coming along like you would like?
MARK TURGEON:   Yeah, he's doing great, conring he's not a point guard and he's playing 30 minutes at the point.   He's doing fantastic.   The thing about Nick is he has no fear and he's being aggressive.   Not every play he makes, I like, but he's really starting to play well.   Didn't defend well Saturday.   His first game defensively he has not defended well in a long, long time, and he'll have to defend better for us to have a chance. 
No, Nick is doing great.   Trying to run the team and trying to do what the coach asks, and is playing well, like you said, three straight games.

Q.   And the other thing I did see in the Virginia game, you just didn't have anything in at all.   Was that something Virginia was doing the way they are playing their back line defense or is it not execution on your guys' part? 
MARK TURGEON:   Well, I think early in the game, I thought Virginia played a phenomenal game.   I thought they were great for 40 minutes, and the crowd, the second sell out of the year, it's a great crowd, they were energized and had to have the game and I want to give Virginia a lot of credit.
With that said, we missed a lot of layups, and toughness ‑‑ I thought they just played tougher than we did in that game.   So it was disappointing.   We had some point‑blank looks, interior looks, that we didn't get done in the first half that could have given us some confidence or maybe get them in some foul trouble, and we just weren't getting it done.   Give them a lot of credit and hopefully our big guys will play better tomorrow night. 

Q.   Can I ask you about the tournament coming up, I know it's two weeks away, but as a team that's probably not going to the NCAA as an at‑large, does the tournament help at all in terms of focusing and keeping attention late in the season when it still presents you at least a chance to accomplish something? 
MARK TURGEON:   We have not gotten there yet.   I'm sure it will that week.   We are just trying to be the best team we can be.   We have got young guys and just trying to get them better. 
You know, I think before Pe'Shon got hurt, we were thinking differently.   We were really starting to play well.   And it's just kind of changed everything here in the last week.   We are still trying to play well and we are still trying to win every game, there's no question about that. 
But right now, we have got to improve this and we have got to get guys used to playing the positions they are playing and lack of depth and figuring out which non‑scholarship players I'm going to play in the game, and that's changed every game. 
So that's where we are right now.   And we have had so many games, we went Thursday night at nine o'clock, Saturday at one, and now Tuesday against Miami.   We really have not had much time to think about anybody but our opponents, unfortunately.   More so than working on ourselves. 
But after tomorrow night's game, we'll have a little time and practice over the next two weeks before that ACC Tournament where hopefully we can work on us and get better. 

Q.   What can I ask you about Miami, you mentioned they didn't have Kadji or Adams, you did have Howard.     That obviously makes a huge difference.   How do you match up with them without him? 
MARK TURGEON:   Well, yeah, it's tough.   It's tough for us.   We'll see.   They are playing about six guys on the perimeter and they are all really good players. 
So we talked today about which non‑scholarship player we are going to play in that game just to try to give us some depth to hang with Miami, and you know, their big guys are really good.   They have got a heck of a team.   I just remember how impressed I was watching film on them the first time, and then Kadji, of course, didn't play against us, and they went small and really spread us out and did some nice things. 
I think they are a very talented team.   I was surprised when they lost to North Carolina at home.   I know North Carolina is great and has got a lot of players, and could have gone either way, but I thought Miami might be able to pull that one out.   So they are a heck of a team with a lot of talent.   Jim did a great job, and he has them playing well at the right time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT