BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2009
Donald Sloan
Mark Turgeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 CHARLIE FISS: Joined now by the Texas A&M Aggies, Coach Mark Turgeon and his two student-athletes, which will be Donald Sloan and Bryson Graham. 
Coach, your thoughts on tonight's game against Tech? 
 COACH TURGEON: Obviously, Singletary was fantastic. We had no answer for him. We tried all kinds of different guys. He just kept making plays and put a big guy on him and he shot threes and they drove him. Little guy on him would post him. Pat did a nice job tonight.
 We just quit. I was begging our guys in the Missouri game to play the second half. We didn't guard in the second half. We had a great crowd and were able to hold them off. I'm not sure we got a stop the last 10 minutes of the game and totally just quit defensively and panicked a little bit on the offensive end at the very end. 
 Give them credit, they made plays. They never stopped. 

 Q. When you got up 21 early in the second half, is there a tendency to let up or let down a little? 
 DONALD SLOAN: Well, not really sure. We just didn't get stops. Like Coach said, it seemed like everything they shot went in. A couple shots they shot were contested, a lot of them weren't. We just -- you know, like the intensity in the second half from the way we started the game, the reason I guess you could say because we were up by a good margin. So, yeah, I guess we did kind of slack off.

 Q. Mark, when did you start getting nervous in the second half? 
 COACH TURGEON: When did I start getting nervous? When the second half started, I don't know. I don't know if I was ever nervous. I was more mad because we couldn't get a stop. You know, they made some shots. 
 I think we had an eight-point lead or a ten-point lead at the eight-minute time-out or seven, whatever that was, was like, guys, if we can play the next four minutes, the game will be over at the next media time-out. Just got to get stops and do what we are supposed to do. We never got one. That's when Singletary really heated up. 
 We were in foul trouble all night. A lot of it because of our own reason, just not playing very smart. We had to leave. We got a little lackadaisical and had silly fouls. We had three or four fouls away from the basket, 94 feet from the basket. 
 And then we had the technical on Bryan which shouldn't happen. I don't know. I kept thinking we were going to get stops and we didn't. Our last two second halves defensively haven't been very good.

 Q. Mark, you guys have done so well lately to improve your résumé. Does this hurt you at all going into Sunday? 
 COACH TURGEON: It hurts our résumé. Whenever you lose, it hurts your résumé. I haven't really looked at it to be quite honest with you. I think we were solidly in because of what we have accomplished, finished fourth in the Big 12. Texas Tech is a pretty hot team. They did beat Kansas seven days ago, eight days ago. It wasn't like this was a fluke or anything. 
 So we'll see. It won't be -- it will be a lot more anxious than it would have been than if we won a game or two here. I know that. So we'll see. We have a pretty good résumé, though. 
 CHARLIE FISS: Coach, thank you for coming. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT