NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2009
Calvin De Haan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CALVIN DE HAAN: Feels pretty unreal right now. I'm still trying to, you know, I don't even know if I'm in reality right now, but it feels good, for sure.   
  
  Q. What's it going to be like to play with John Tavares?   
 CALVIN DE HAAN: I don't know, I guess that's the plan. It's going to be great. We had good chemistry going on before his trade, and you know, hopefully that can translate into the NHL one day.   
  
  Q. Did you have any inkling or were you surprised?   
 CALVIN DE HAAN: I was surprised and I was not ranked in the teens at all this year. It was a very big surprise for me. I was ranked towards the latter end of the first round, and I'm still trying to take it all in. It's pretty surreal.  
  
  Q. Do you get nervous when you come to the first round?   
 CALVIN DE HAAN: Yeah, I know my limits. I know where I was supposed to be picked, but this is definitely -- I don't know how to explain it, the feeling right now, but it's pretty unreal.   
  
  Q. Do you have any anticipation about next year, do you see yourself playing junior again?  
 CALVIN DE HAAN: I would like to play in the NHL right away, that would be obviously a dream come true, but I don't think another year or two in junior, it wouldn't hurt my development at all. I actually wouldn't mind playing in Oshawa again.  
  
  Q. How are your parents?  
 CALVIN DE HAAN: Oh, they are pretty pumped right now. I think they might have been a little bit more surprised than I was, but you know, I think they are pretty happy right now and pretty proud as well.  
  
  Q. You took an extra year in tier two and that paid off and gave you more playing time. Do you see the similar scenario if it happens if you have to play another year of junior hockey?  
 CALVIN DE HAAN: Yeah, that's a good way to look at things and it's definitely not going to hurt. I'm hoping to get a decent amount of ice time next year in Oshawa and I think that could definitely help me out.   
  
  Q. Talk about that year and this past year and what that did for your development?   
 CALVIN DE HAAN: I played a year of junior a and I thought I needed to make the next jump to the next level. You know, I was getting -- as soon as the trade came along, I think I was that go-to guy on defense, and you know, started to get more ice time and more responsibility as a player, playing more power play and penalty kill time and that helped out a lot. The ice time is probably the best thing that happened to me for sure.   
  
  Q. How do you think you would fit in the Islander system? What player would you most recognize as your playing style in the NHL?   
 CALVIN DE HAAN: I think I could be a power player for the Islanders, a puck moving type of guy, a guy like Mark Streit, that's probably a pretty good guy to model my game after. He's pretty successful. And also try to play like a guy like Scott Niedermayer, he's been my idle since they went on a Cup run a few years ago and I try to model my game after him.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT