NCAA DIVISION I WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2007
Gregor Gillespie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:  We have Gregor Gillespie here from Edinburgh?   
  
  Q.  It almost looked like you mirrored Slater when you guys came out in neutral position to get low, put your hand on the matt.  You seemed to do the same thing.  Is that your style?   
 GREGOR GILLESPIE:  I usually stay pretty low.  You have to mirror what they do or they have an advantage.  If he's lower than you it's easy to shoot.  Usually the guys mirror the three-point stance with me because of how I stand.  I don't think it was either of us mirroring each other, I think we both stand like that.   
  
  Q.  Slater has been wrestling a lot of close matches, even winning several matches 1-0.  Are you aware of that knowing he has been conservative?   
 GREGOR GILLESPIE:  Of course, it's probably incredible pressure to do what he's doing, and that's part of the reason he's having a lot of close matches.  I'm sure that has a lot to do with it.  Obviously I have to be aware that he is capable of scoring.  Also at the same time I knew that he wasn't going to come out there and totally go wild on me.  He's been a little more conservative this year.  I was aware of that, yes.   
  
  Q.  He's only given up two takedowns this year prior to that match.  Did you get the sense when you got that first takedown it stunned him a bit?   
 GREGOR GILLESPIE: Absolutely.  I'm not used to getting taken down and scored on like that, especially early on.  He was probably thinking he'll score on me when I'm fresh, but that gave me a huge confidence boost.   
  
  Q.  There were a lot of people who are already talking about Desmond a four-time champion.  Does that weigh more on your mind?  Does it make it easier to go out and wrestle him because you have got nothing to lose or do you go out and put more pressure on him?   
 GREGOR GILLESPIE: I always think you have the upper hand in any situation.  This guy is really feeling the pressure and I take that to my advantage, this guy feels worse than I do.  You have got to give yourself advantages like that.  That's what I think about when I'm out there.  I wasn't thinking takedown four, I'm thinking he has more things to deal with, and I don't.   
  
  Q.  What advice did Tim Landon and Cliff Moore and the coaching staff give you before that match in terms of how to approach him and where you were?   
 GREGOR GILLESPIE:  To be persistent, keep shooting the pack and you'll crack him.  Take all the things you've done, that you have in your little book of tricks, all the work we've put in running up and down the hills in Edinburgh with all the weight, it's all behind you and you've got that with you.  That's something, be an animal out there, be a tiger.  They definitely know how to pump you up before a match and it obviously worked.   
  
  Q.  At the end there, did the coach tell you to get on the bike or did you have enough sense to do that on your own?   
 GREGOR GILLESPIE:  Put skates on.  I had the common sense to do that.  I had that in my mind.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT