FEDCUP FIRST ROUND: GERMANY v USA
February 1, 2008
Anna-Lena Groenefeld
Sabine Lisicki
Tatjana Malek
Barbara Rittner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  We'll open it up for questions for the German team. 

 Q.  Barbara, if you could just talk about your team's preparations this week and how you think the playing surface will suit your players. 
 CAPTAIN RITTNER:  Well, we've had enough time to prepare on the surface.  It's a pretty common hard court surface.  It should suit actually anybody that is here already for longer than a week.  We've had a great time.  It's a very, very nice resort, very, very friendly people. 
 Yeah, I think everybody's ready to play.  Then we see how it goes. 

 Q.  On Wednesday you mentioned you guys come in here as underdogs.  Do you like the lack of pressure that that means on your team? 
 CAPTAIN RITTNER:  No (laughter).  Actually, I like it better the other way around.  But that's the way it is.  I mean, if you play the U.S., especially if there's a top player like Lindsay in the team, of course you are the underdog. 
 On the other hand, well, sometimes it's nice, you have nothing to lose.  But in the end, you know, for winning, you don't want to go to the U.S. all the way and then go home losing. 
 So that's what we are here for, so we give our best.  You never know.  It's a team.  It's not a single event.  So we just give our best. 

 Q.  Sabine, do you feel like you almost have nothing to lose?  The U.S. is a heavy favorite.  Being the underdog role, do you feel you have nothing to lose? 
 SABINE LISICKI:  Well, of course I see it as a match, you know.  It's a match which I want to win.  I'm not going into the match wanting to lose.  So I'm going to go out there and just give my best. 

 Q.  Do you feel like you're on a roll?  You had a nice run at the Australian.  Your confidence must be high right now. 
 SABINE LISICKI:  Of course.  Yes, it is (laughter). 

 Q.  Tatjana, for those of us who are not well-versed in your game, if you were to describe your playing style, how would you describe it. 
 TATJANA MALEK:  Yeah, I don't know how I play (laughter). 
 No, no, but, yeah, I'm the player who's playing not aggressive, not like the other players.  I'm playing more with my head maybe, yeah.  You will see on Saturday (laughter). 

 Q.  Anna-Lena, you're the veteran on the team.  What kind of advice have you given to your teammates? 
 ANNA-LENA GROENEFELD:  It's funny because I'm only 22.  Yeah, you know, I try to encourage them and tell them just to give their best.  It's a team competition.  I try to tell them that they have to go out there, give their best, and that's all they can do, play for their country, fight out there. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT