NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2020
Jackie Stoelting
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Great birdie on nine.
 JACKIE STOELTING:   Thanks.  Thank you.
 Q. Phenomenal round today.  How do you feel just after finishing 18?
 JACKIE STOELTING:   I feel great.  It's been 14 months I think since my last round out here, so didn't really have many expectations, but also have an extremely different perspective on life now that I'm a mom.
 So I just was out here really trying to have fun and take it one shot at a time.
 Q. Did you just pick up where you left off, do you think, after 14 months?
 JACKIE STOELTING:   Yes and no.  I think I picked up actually from Q Series two years ago, because last year playing pregnant was a lot harder than I imagined physically.  I was just exhausted and my swing was not there and I just wasn't hitting it as far.
 So I felt like really I picked it up from Q Series two years ago.  I finished top 10 there and just kind of tried to remember that event and just put myself back there, and two years went by like that.
 Q. Can you believe what's been happening since 14 months ago?
 JACKIE STOELTING:   Yeah.
 Q. With everything, what did you do during quarantine?  How did you deal with that, especially with a newborn?
 JACKIE STOELTING:   Well, yeah, I was pretty much in quarantine the last 11 months with a child anyway.  You know, it's been difficult not being able to take him anywhere and really spending a lot a lot of time at home.
 Fortunately I live at our golf course, so my mom has really been helpful to come over and watch my son so I can go practice.  I don't put nearly as much time into practicing as I used to, but I've always been a quality over quantity and really just try and not overthink it.
 But, yeah, everything with COVID has been wild.  I would've gone back earlier but everything with COVID, and flying with a baby just makes things a little bit more difficult.
 So I actually played in the Florida Open three weeks ago as a test event just to see if even I was okay mentally, physically being away from my son while I played.  I finished third there, so I was like, All right.  Literally the next day I signed up for Arkansas.
 So I told my caddie I was 50/50.  Really going to see how that week went, and it went above my expectations.  So I'm happy to be here and playing well today.  It was great.
 Q. And you've been traveling with your son.  Have you been able to utilize the Smucker's daycare we have?
 JACKIE STOELTING:   Yes.
 Q. How has that been?
 JACKIE STOELTING:   It's been great.  I flew on Tuesday, so that was my first flight with my son, and my mom came to help this week.  We kind of eased him in.  On Wednesday he just went in for an hour and a half.  Did great with drop off, and I guess after ten minutes he looked around and realized he didn't recognize anyone and just lost it.
 But then yesterday did great, and he's been there ever since I think 6:00 this morning my mom dropped him off.  So he napped for them, which I was really worried he wouldn't nap and I would get a fussy baby, but it sounds like he just finished napping and we're going to go have some lunch.
 Q. Just a couple more questions.
 JACKIE STOELTING:   Yes.
 Q. I know you're ready to get back.
 JACKIE STOELTING:   It's fine.  It's fine.
 Q. You had seven birdies today and the rest pars.  What's the game set going into tomorrow?
 JACKIE STOELTING:   Just same thing:  Just really focus on each (indiscernible) as simple as it sounds.  But hit fairway, hit a green, and then make a good putt.
 I think the great thing with having my child is now in the past I would've sat there and looked at scores and just sat in my room not knowing what to do.  Now I have a great distraction, and my husband's actually flying in this afternoon.
 So I'm just going to have some time with my family and then sleep in when my son sleeps in tomorrow.  So I'll probably still be up early; not as early as this morning.  Just come out here and have fun again tomorrow.
 Q. Thank you so much.  Good luck tomorrow.
 JACKIE STOELTING:   Thank you.  Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT