NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 20, 2019
Terry Stotts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Golden State 119, Portland 117
TERRY STOTTS: We couldn't get over the hump, I think it was more of a demonstration of how good they are and how good they have been over years and they find ways to win.  It's a disappointing loss, but for me it was an outstanding season.  The guys in the locker room are special.  It's been a special season.  Always tough to lose the last game of the year, but I couldn't be more proud of the group that we've had.
Q. You got another great performance from Meyers Leonard tonight.  Talk a little about that.
TERRY STOTTS: Again, he, the first half, was outstanding, 25 points, and he was playing with a lot of confidence.  He certainly had an impact on the game, much like Game 3, and again we needed him and he played well and I'm happy for him.
Q. Your group has shown so much toughness and fight against adversity all season long, including the last three games.  When you mention championship pedigree, what about that championship pedigree did you see that helped them overcome these double-digits deficits in the second half every time?
TERRY STOTTS: They have a confidence about them.  They feel like they are never out of a game, and they have the experience and they have done it before.
So I mean, Draymond Green hitting a three.  He, Draymond, carried them in Game 3, the last game, with his energy and with his spirit.
Defensively, they are experienced.  They know how to make things difficult for opponents.  They help each other.  They pass.  They trust each other and I think it's -- when they have been rewarded year after year after year with that style of play, there's a reason to trust it.
Q. Damian Lillard obviously was playing with an injury through the series, but the game he had tonight, what does it mean for you to see the way he was able to play in this game to get you guys past the Warriors?
TERRY STOTTS: I've said many times, Damian not only is a special player but he's a special person.  He's a great competitor, and he hates to lose and wants to do whatever it takes to win a game.  I think the way he competed tonight was a demonstration of that.
Q. What about this playoff run is going to help you guys moving forward, say next year?  What are you going to take away from this do you think?
TERRY STOTTS: I think it's more than just the playoff run.  I think the fact that we had a very good regular season; the fact that we were able to win two series, we were very competitive in this series, even though it was a sweep, it was -- we played competitively.
But I think that's a long way away from now.  I think when that time comes, we'll be able to reflect.  I think it's a little too early to look at how this series helps us right now.  Right now, it kind of stings.
Q. When Dame put up that Final shot, did you think it was going to be another miracle?
TERRY STOTTS: Yeah, I did.  I thought it was going to -- kind of meant to be.  When he shot it, it had good arc.  Yeah, I thought it had a chance.
Q. 3.3 seconds; what play did you draw up?
TERRY STOTTS: We had another timeout.  That Dame and CJ [McCollum] come off curls, if they switched it, Meyers could switch down the lane.  Getting Dame the ball over there was the first look, and if they screwed up a switch, maybe we get Meyers going down the lane.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT