NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: TRAIL BLAZERS vs WARRIORS
May 1, 2016
Terry Stotts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Trail Blazers - 106, Warriors - 118
Q. Klay Thompson is obviously a great player but could you guys have done guarding him better tonight?
TERRY STOTTS: Well, we'll watch the game and see how he got his shots.  I thought he made a lot of tough shots.  We lost him a couple times.  He did what he did.  You know, the first quarter, they are a great first quarter team and he was a big part of that.  But you know, we've got to make him work.  With great players, with All-Stars, you have to make them work and make it as difficult as possible.
We'll watch the film and see if we can make any changes.  But he got them off to a great start.
Q. Do you think guys were demoralized how the first quarter started, got down on themselves?
TERRY STOTTS: I don't know if demoralized is the right word.  Certainly wasn't the start we wanted.  But I don't think a demoralized team would have competed like we did in the second quarter and for the rest of the game, for that matter.
It was disappointing to get off to such a poor start.  Our offense, we had trouble scoring.  Their defense got into us.  It was just -- we struggled at both ends, and probably more so on the offensive end, which fed into their defense.  They had second chance point, they had fast-break points.  It was a little bit of everything.  But I wouldn't say demoralized would be the right word.
Q. You haven't shot the ball well throughout the playoffs.  Do you have any idea why that is?
TERRY STOTTS: You know, it's usually a little bit of both.  It's the defense; Clippers are a good defensive team; Warriors are a good defensive team.  And some of it is just missing some open shots.
I have a hard time comparing the Clippers series to the Warriors, and going forward with the Warriors, they are too completely different teams.
So I don't want to belabor the point with the Clippers series, but I thought we had a lot of good shots that we didn't make.  Just after one game with the Warriors, it's hard to say.
Q. When they go small, they still have a lot of size on the court; is that what makes that lineup so difficult, so similar across the board height-wise?
TERRY STOTTS: It's a challenge.  I thought we actually did all right against that lineup.  Yeah, they can post their guards.  Their versatility is their strength.  When you have guys like Iguodala and Livingston and even Klay Thompson, Draymond Green who can guard multiple positions and attack you in different ways offensively, it can be pretty effective.
Q. The Clippers series obviously started poorly for you guys, but you were able to bounce back real effectively there.  Can you turn that into a positive here?
TERRY STOTTS: I said something similar to that to the team.  We got beat pretty soundly in Game 1 against the Clippers and we made some adjustments, we played a little bit better and got better as the series went along, and we need to do the same thing.  So we'll watch the video, see what we can come up with for Game 2.  But there's no question that we have to play better and learn from Game 1 like we did with the Clippers.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT