NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 20, 2019
Terry Stotts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Dame's [Damian Lillard] not making a big deal about it.  CJ [McCollum] said he couldn't have more respect for the guy than he already does.  What does Dame playing with ribs not make it a big deal mean to you?  
TERRY STOTTS: I think it's typical of Dame.  You know, he kind of kept it to himself before, and at this stage of the season, down 0-3, it's probably what I expect, and I think everybody knows, we wouldn't be in this position if it weren't for Dame and what he's meant to us, so hopefully we'll get a win for him.   
 Q.  Can you talk a bit on the play of Meyers Leonard and what that meant to the team after, you know, he's been here seven years and has had struggles at times, what it's like to see him perform in the Western Conference Finals like that?  
TERRY STOTTS: I was really happy for Meyers, obviously.  I mean, he had a big impact on the game in the first half.  I was very happy for him.  He's had his ups and downs over his career.  He's been a target of a lot of people, and he's held up pretty well.  He's stayed confident.  He's been a great teammate, great person, and for him to have that kind of a breakout game for him on this stage was pretty special.   
 Q.  The Warriors spent some time yesterday talking about the potential to sweep, how much they would enjoy the rest.  When those comments get back to your team, how motivated, how angry, what are the emotions you guys are feeling tonight?  
TERRY STOTTS: To be honest, I didn't hear those comments, but, I mean, it doesn't surprise me.  That's what they are supposed to say and we say the things we're supposed to say.  That's kind of how things work.   
 Q.  How much do you think that just their experience level has played into this series, and how much are you guys gaining from making it this far and getting to have this type of experience?  
TERRY STOTTS: I think their experience certainly has shown, there's no question; how they ramped it up in the third quarter in Game 2 and to come back from an eight-point deficit with four-and-a-half [to play], I think they showed the mettle that helped them win their championships.   
As far as us learning, that's to be determined.  It's difficult now, but I think down the road, it will show itself and it will manifest itself down the road.  Right now it's just about winning this game, and I don't know if we take anything away from, you know, learning experiences from those two other than just, we've got to find a way to win tonight.   
 Q.  Going into the fourth game in the series, are there still strategic adjustments you're looking for or is it more taking care of business and making shots?  
TERRY STOTTS: It's a good question, because it's been a hard -- I should say, a difficult series to figure out.  I mean, as well as we've played in the first half of Game 2 and Game 3, that's very encouraging.  Based on those, we weren't making any adjustments because we were in pretty good shape.   
We have made some changes that have been effective, but you know, to your point, I think understanding the mentality coming out of halftime, whatever it is, approaching this as a Game 7, but I think it's much more a mental disposition than it is X and O's and strategies right now.   
 Q.  Zach Collins had a pretty great series against Denver and he's been quieter against the Warriors so far.  Is that a matchup thing or are you hoping he can average more moving forward than he has so far?  
TERRY STOTTS: Definitely there is a matchup thing.  Denver had [Nikola] Jokic and [Mason]Plumlee and [Paul] Millsap and played a different style of game than the Warriors.  The Warriors are a better team.  They play a different style.  I think it's a combination of both.   
But I think, you know, you look at different series, and different players step up depending on a variety of things.  But I'm very encouraged by what Zach has done.  You know, he had foul trouble in Game 2.  He's had a positive impact on the games.  He's made some good plays, and for a young player at this -- on this stage, I think it's been very promising.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT