NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 18, 2019
Terry Stotts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Golden State 110, Portland 99   
 Q.  After a good first half, it blew up for you in the second half, what happened?  
TERRY STOTTS: Our offense, our offense fell apart.  We missed some shots.  Took some tough shots.  Didn't move the ball as well.  They were scoring, so we were taking it out of the net.  Didn't get any transition.   
So, said at the beginning of the series, to beat Golden State, you've got to be able to score.  Scoring 33 in the second half is not going to do it.   
 Q.  Why has it been so difficult for Damian [Lillard] to get going in this series offensively?  
TERRY STOTTS: I think the double teams, obviously the trapping is designed to get the ball out of his hands so he doesn't have the same freedom.  I think they are good one-on-one defenders.  You know, some of it's missing shots.  You know, he gets to the rim and he hasn't finished around the rim as well, but I don't know if it's one thing.   
You know, obviously their defense is part of it.  Missing some shots.  Giving them some easier shots is tough.   
 Q.  You made the decision to start Meyers Leonard.  Why did you make that decision and what do you think he gave you in this game?  
TERRY STOTTS: He had a terrific first half like the rest of the team.  I liked his spacing and the way he played in Game 2 in Golden State.   
You know, he can space the floor, and he and Dame, he and CJ [McCollum] have a good two-man game.  Obviously it's designed to help our offense a little bit.  It looked really good in the first half.  Not so much the second half.  But that wasn't his fault.   
 Q.  Steve Kerr described Draymond Green tonight as a wrecking ball.  How would you describe him?  
TERRY STOTTS: He was the difference-maker.  What he did, he kept them going, even though we had a lead in the first half, his energy, the way he was pushing the ball, kept them going, and you know, he has such an impact on the game on both ends.  You know, offensively with his passing, his play-making.  He makes his teammates better, and defensively, he's all over the place.   
He impacted the game.  Obviously he's the player of the game tonight.  He impacted the game.   
 Q.  Now that you're one game from elimination and you have exceeded everyone's expectations; what do you say to your team to maybe get them to believe that this can be possible?  
TERRY STOTTS: We're going to give it our best effort on Monday.  I mean, that's all that matters, is we give it our best effort.  We give it everything we have on Monday, and whatever happens, happens.  But that's -- having the pride and professionalism to give it the best effort and to get a home win, and then -- and then go from there, there's no -- I don't know if it's as much about strategy as about just rallying around and giving it the best effort possible.   
 Q.  What kind of boost did you get from your bench early in the second quarter and what did you see different from the bench in the second half?  
TERRY STOTTS: You know, the first half, everybody contributed.  The starters, the bench, different combinations really worked well.  You know, if you score 66 points in a half, a lot of people contributed that.   
Second half, it was just a struggle.  I don't know how much it was their bench.  You know, they just -- they are a championship team.  They have been a championship team and they have a style of play, and they continue to play at a certain level, and the second half, we just didn't match that.  Whether it was their bench players or their starters, they didn't miss a beat.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT