NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 17, 2019
Terry Stotts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Anything stand out to you when you watched the film?  
TERRY STOTTS: We did a lot of good things.  We did a lot of good things at both ends.  We had a bad three- or four-minute stretch in the beginning of the third quarter that they got aggressive and we didn't handle it well.  But we showed good poise coming back, and the last three minutes, they made their -- they took advantage of their opportunities and we didn't.   
 Q.  What do you feel like went well in terms of your changes from Game 1 to Game 2, and knowing how well you played in Game 2, do you have to make many changes now going into Game 3?  
TERRY STOTTS: The most obvious thing was we played better offense, and we said that after Game 1.  If you looked at all the offensive numbers, there wasn't a lot, we didn't have a lot to hang our hat on offensively.  So I thought we did a lot of things better offensively, screening, passing, running, freeing up Damian and CJ a little bit more.  Just across the board, we took care of the ball except for that third quarter.   
So like I said, just across the board offensively there was a big difference.   
 Q.  Three years ago when you guys played them in the second round, I think you led the series for like 60 percent of it.  Why is it so hard to deliver a kill shot to these guys?  
TERRY STOTTS: Well, they're a championship team.  They've been in these situations before.  I think they play with extreme confidence.  They know each other really well.  They're great players.  So I mean, they're not going to go away.  You've got to just do a little bit extra, and we haven't gotten there yet.   
 Q.  Kind of frustrating, though, too, I imagine, to play so well for so long and then?  
TERRY STOTTS: Yeah.  Yeah, of course.  That was a game that I think we felt we had and could have, should have won, but we didn't.   
 Q.  Did they do anything different in the third quarter last night?  
TERRY STOTTS: Well, they got -- yeah, they got aggressive on us.  They really got aggressive on Dame and CJ, more so during that stretch than the other parts of the game.   
 Q.  And then how did you feel about the defense?  
TERRY STOTTS: You know, we changed a lot of things up, and we were more aggressive, and in the end they ended up scoring the same amount of points.  So I don't know.  I think it was encouraging the changes that we made that maybe we can do them better, that we were doing some things that we don't ordinarily do.  But I liked our mental focus.  I liked our energy.  I liked -- at least we made it difficult for Curry and Thompson.  We took away the threes, which is a priority.  So we did a lot of good things.  Second-chance points is probably the biggest disappointment because they converted -- they didn't have a lot of offensive rebounds but they were very efficient when they got them.   
 Q.  This group has already overcome a lot of adversity to get to this point.  What's the mentality like right now within the group going into Game 3?  
TERRY STOTTS: We feel confident that we played a good game, and we feel confident that we can get a couple wins here.   
 Q.  You stuck with Meyers down the stretch.  Was that just because you liked what that group was doing?  
TERRY STOTTS: Yeah.  You know, we tend to ride the good group, and Meyers hit the shot to put us up eight with, what, four and a half or something like that.  So yeah, we rode with that.  He did a nice job.  Not only did he make a couple shots, but he does a good job of screening.  He moves the ball well, and he played well the second half.  First half he struggled in his three minutes, but he was effective in the second half.   
 Q.  Have you guys ever adopted a rule that if you're on the bench you have to have a shirt on or something?  
TERRY STOTTS: You know, I looked at our bench during that.  I was going to bring it up, but you know what, stuff happens.   
 Q.  How good is it to be finally coming home after what feels like a long road trip?  
TERRY STOTTS: Good.  Yeah, it was a three-game road trip in the middle of the Playoffs.  But it feels good.  I don't think we take anything for granted that we're coming home, but we have a great home court, so it does feel good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT