NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 16, 2019
Terry Stotts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Golden State 114, Portland 111   
 Q.  Points off turnovers, totally flipped:  You won it easily in the first half, and 21-0 in their favor in the second half.  
TERRY STOTTS: Third quarter, we had five turnovers.  They were able to take advantage of them.  First half, we had a really good offensive half.  Didn't turn the ball over much.  That being said, we only had one turnover in the fourth, but I don't think -- I've always said this, on the box score, when you look at points off of turnover, I think that's misleading because it doesn't necessarily always mean that the turnover led to points.  It could be a three-second call.  It could be whatever.   
So I think sometimes that's a little misleading.  But our turnovers in the third quarter did hurt us.   
 Q.  What did you think about the last possession with Damian [Lillard] and were you looking for him to go iso there?  
TERRY STOTTS: On the very last one?  Honestly we were out of timeouts.  Just it wasn't -- we just got to get a shot up.  You know, get him the ball.  It's a tough situation to be in.  We couldn't necessarily run something to run a play but I thought he did the best job he could as far as trying to get a three up.   
 Q.  You rolled with Seth [Curry] for 29 minutes and tonight he had four steals and made some huge shots, one with a minute left was huge.  When you look at the way he battles and goes at his brother, what kind of things do you see in how much he wants this particular matchup?  
TERRY STOTTS: I'm sure that has something to do with it but I think he's a basketball player who competes, you know, and we're in the Western Conference Finals and he wants to do well.  He had a terrific game at one point, you know, before they went on the run, his plus/minus was like a plus 24.  So he had a very good game.   
I'm sure having his brother out there has something to do with it but I think it goes beyond that.   
 Q.  How much did Draymond [Green] on both ends hurt you down the stretch? And Steve [Kerr] was in here just a minute ago and said, "We stole this game." Do you sort of feel that same way?  
TERRY STOTTS: I don't know if they stole it.  I thought they -- they played like a championship team would here at home.  They made plays in the last three minutes and we didn't.   
Draymond is a good basketball player.  He's aggressive and he's smart at both ends and they know how -- they have been at this a long time.  They have played a lot of games together, and they -- there isn't anything they haven't seen.  They did a good job of attacking us offensively, and we didn't take advantage of our opportunities on the offensive end.   
I think we had two or three points in the last three and a half minutes, and we got to be able to score in those situations.   
 Q.  They made that huge run in the third quarter and took the lead.  You guys came back.  Do you take solace from that, the competitive nature of this game going into Game 3?  
TERRY STOTTS: You know, it was a pretty good run.  You know, they made threes.  Forced turnovers.  Got a aggressive defense.  I liked that we didn't lose our composure and got back into the game and took a nice lead.   
You know, you hate to lose a game, but I think we showed that we can compete with them.  You know, it was a much better game than we played in Game 1.  Now we've got to go get two at home but it starts with Game 3.  But yeah, we beat them in the regular season, and we did play a good game, much better game at both ends of the floor tonight.   
So we've got to take that into Game 3.   
 Q.  To play them so close here and to have a shot to beat them at the end, and to know that Durant is not in the lineup, [DeMarcus]Cousins is not in the lineup, does that feel to you like a missed opportunity?  
TERRY STOTTS: Regardless of those guys, that has nothing to do with it.  It is a lot of opportunity, no question.  We had a chance to get one here on the road.  We played a good game and we led for a good part of the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT