NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 16, 2019
Terry Stotts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How beneficial has it been to practice here?  
TERRY STOTTS: It was good.  Being able to watch the game and see what things we can do better, what things we can do differently, get some time on the court, regroup.  It was a good day.   
 Q.  When you looked at tape of that game, did you see a lot of small adjustments that you need to make, or did you see shots not going in by good shooters and you're confident that that will determine this game?  
TERRY STOTTS: I think we saw a lot of things that we can do differently and better.  Offensively, when you look at our -- when you look at our shooting percentage, our three-point shooting, our shooting in the paint, our turnovers, offensively there's a lot we can do better.   
And the good thing is that what they did defensively is the main thing that we haven't seen in previous series.  So we'll clean that up defensively.  You know, we've seen the pick-and-roll defense.  I can get into the numbers and everything, but that was certainly part of it.   
But like I said, fourth quarter we were down six and [Stephen] Curry had three points in the fourth quarter.  We needed to be better in the fourth quarter with our off-ball stuff.   
It was encouraging that there are things we can do tonight or things that we can do better that we didn't do.   
 Q.  Terry, at what point did you see Dame [Damian Lillard] really get comfortable with the 30-footer?  When did that become part of his arsenal?  
TERRY STOTTS: I think it's been gradual, but certainly this year he had spent a lot of time over the summer, and I think it's been obvious that this year it was something that he was going to incorporate into his game.   
I think he's always had range, but the time that he spent over the summer this year was -- I don't think there was necessarily a point in the season that it happened, but it was just over the course of his career, just kind of gradual.   
 Q.  Kevin Durant may be out for the entirety of this series.  We'll find out more in just a few moments.  How difficult is it for you to try to prepare defensively for this team with or without him on the floor?  
TERRY STOTTS: Well, with him on the court, there's just another great offensive player, and so when you put him out there with Steph and Klay [Thompson], it's really challenging from a defensive standpoint.  And his versatility in his offense.  When you take him out of it, I think they do play a different style.  Certainly Curry gets more involved.  I think Klay gets more involved because they need to.  And so the focus or emphasis on those two guys probably becomes a little bit more.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT