NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2015
Ivan Provorov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When New Jersey didn't take you and the Flyers were coming up next, what were you thinking sitting there?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I was just hoping the Flyers would pick me, and that's what happened, and I'm really glad the Flyers picked me.   
   
 Q.   Why are you glad they picked you?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Just a great organization, and I mean, it's just lots of history, and they have a good team, and I'm going to do everything that I can to make the team as soon as possible, so just really happy they picked me.  
   
 Q.   You said earlier you hope to play in the NHL this year.   Do you think that's realistic?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I think so.   I'm going to work hard this summer and go to mini‑camp and see what happens there.  
   
 Q.   What were your meetings like with the Flyers?   Were you surprised they took you?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I had three meetings with them, one at the combine and a couple before the draft.  
   
 Q.   Did they give you an indication that you were‑‑  
IVAN PROVOROV:   They just said you're a really good player and congrats on the season, and we'll see you in Florida.  
   
 Q.   Are you aware they're pretty deep with their prospects?   Do you know about any of that?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I only know one prospect, Travis Sanheim.   I played against him when he played for Calgary, but other than that, I don't really know any.   
   
 Q.   Do you like that kind of competition?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, I mean, I'm a competitive guy, and it will be fun to compete against the other guys.  
   
 Q.   What do you remember about playing in Wilkes Barre‑Scranton a couple years ago?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   It was a great two seasons.   We won a lot of games and winning is fun, so really enjoyed the time there.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever been to Philadelphia?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, a couple times.   I went to see two Eagles games.  
   
 Q.   What were your impressions?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I mean, I enjoyed it.   
   
 Q.   How did the Eagles do?   Did they win?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I think they lost both times.  
   
 Q.   What was the fan reaction?   Are you ready for that?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I mean, I'm ready.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, it's a really good league, and just thankful to Brandon Wheat Kings for picking me in the import draft last summer and thank you to the teammates that I played with this year and the past three years.  
   
 Q.   What do you think really helped you?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, just we kept growing as a team all year long and as individuals, so that helped us to get to the Finals.   It helped us ‑‑ every player to go as a person off the ice and on the ice.  
   
 Q.   What's your top strength?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Hockey sense.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel about the World Juniors this year?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, I thought it was great competition.   It was fun and good experience to play against the best players in the world for that age group and with the best players on the Russian team.   
   
 Q.   You said hockey sense is your best strength?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Can you elaborate on that?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Just see what's open, how much time do I have, and stuff like that, just see if I can skate myself or make a pass, find a lane to shoot, or to make a move on the player or the goalie.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you need to work on?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I think I need to work on all aspects of my game.   I think I don't have a weak point, but I think you always need to improve on everything.   There is no limit, so you can get better and better no matter how old you are.   
   
 Q.   Do you use your speed to (inaudible).   Do you think that translates to the NHL?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, I think the difference between the levels is just the speed and the physical play.   It's just to get better at this during the summer.   I think that's the main thing.   
   
 Q.   You obviously don't have a lack of confidence.   
IVAN PROVOROV:   I mean, I'm a confident guy, and I think‑‑ and I work hard, and I compete.  
   
 Q.   Have you looked at the Flyers' defense lately?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I took a look at it once.  
   
 Q.   What's your impressions of their speed?   
IVAN PROVOROV:   I mean, I think they have good, solid defensemen.   Like I said, I'm going to work hard and see if I can make the team.  
   
 Q.   At the combine (inaudible) did you have a premonition or a feeling you were going to go to the Flyers?   
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, I kind of had a little feeling that I would go to the Flyers, and I mean, I'm just grateful they took me.   
   
 Q.   What did you learn about your game at Cedar Rapids?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, it's great, it was a great experience for me, first year of junior hockey, and we played a lot of defense as a team, and I really got better at that part.  
   
 Q.   You've been over here for a few years.   Can you elaborate on how that's helped you?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, it's just helped me to get comfortable here with the culture and the language.   I played a lot of games in the past four years and just helped me to get better at every aspect of my game.  
   
 Q.   What did you do to learn English?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I went to school in Wilkes Barre for two years, and the first two months my billet family really helped me.  
   
 Q.   You said you watched a lot of movies, too?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, I like to watch movies, watch hockey a lot, almost every day.  
   
 Q.   Did that help you with your English, watching movies?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, yeah, a little bit.   Watched TV the first couple months just to kind of learn the language, too.  
   
 Q.   Did you pick up any Canadian slang while you were doing that?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I mean, a little bit, saying Eh and stuff.   
   
 Q.   What's your favorite movie?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Gladiator.  
   
 Q.   There were a couple (inaudible) selected in the first round last year.   
IVAN PROVOROV:   They're just great teammates, really enjoyed the time there with them.   I mean, great guys, great players.   I mean, just really enjoyed the time there.   
   
 Q.   Did they give you any advice heading into the draft experience?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Just said enjoy it.   Just said would be a really fun weekend.  
   
 Q.   In your meetings with the Flyers did you meet Chris Pronger?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   No, I didn't.  
   
 Q.   Do you know about Chris Pronger?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, I know that he played for the Flyers.  
   
 Q.   You met with (inaudible).   Did he go over his history with you?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I kind of knew before I went to combine that he's from Brandon and he played for Brandon and then went on to play for the Flyers.   
   
 Q.   What did the Flyers tell you?   What were some of the questions that they asked you?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Just asked about my family, my past four years here, how committed am I to play in the NHL and stuff like that.   
   
 Q.   You came over four years ago now.   What was that like at 14 I would guess?   Did you speak any English at all when you came over?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   No, I didn't, and that was hard for me to leave my family and not be able to see them every day, but it was the right way for me to go, and I'm really grateful I chose this way.  
   
 Q.   Is your family here tonight?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yeah, they're here.  
   
 Q.   Your mother and father?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Mother, father, brother, sister, and my billets from Wilkes Barre and from Brandon and the coach from Wilkes Barre.  
   
 Q.   Is there a reason you thought North America was a better fit for you as opposed to staying at home?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I mean, back home was good, a good league, but for me I thought to grow as a player I thought I needed to move here and learn the game, the North American way of playing the game.   
   
 Q.   When you're getting ready for the draft and you see where you are in terms of rankings and stuff, are you looking at any teams and saying I could be a good fit for this team or this team?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I mean, not really.   I just really tried to enjoy the time, and I mean, I would be happy with any team, and I'm really grateful the Flyers picked me.  
   
 Q.   You had your own schedule in mind, that you wanted to be in an NHL club in X number of years?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I'm really hoping to have a really long career and hopefully a successful one.  
   
 Q.   Anybody you model yourself after or look to as an idol?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   I always liked Nick Lidstrom when he played.   After that I didn't really find a player, but when he played, I thought he was the best two‑way defenseman in the league.   
   
 Q.   Do you consider yourself a two‑way guy?  
IVAN PROVOROV:   Yes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT