U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Maude-Aimee Leblanc
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   69 today.   Happy with that?   First round of the Women's Open.   You have got to be satisfied, right? 
MAUDE‑AIMEE LEBLANC:   Definitely.   Especially starting with the double bogey on the first hole.   My face was probably as red as high shirt.   I was not happy. 
I knew my swing felt good.   And they moved up a lot of tees today so I could reach most par‑5S in two.   So I knew there was still a lot of birdies out there, so I stayed patient. 

Q.   Did that set you back a little bit?   When you started to see there were several holes where the tees were moved up, did that kind of get in your head a little bit?   Did you just change clubs and have a different angle for the hole and go with it? 
MAUDE‑AIMEE LEBLANC:   Yeah, I changed clubs pretty much on a lot of holes.   But a lot of people told me that's what tends to happen here.   They will change tees and move some tees up, so I was prepared for it.   But I hope they will move it back soon.

Q.   Did you think it plays to your strength to have it play back farther?
MAUDE‑AIMEE LEBLANC:   Definitely.   I'm one of the longest hitters here.   Yeah, definitely.   It's an advantage to play 68 or 60‑something, yeah.

Q.   How did you feel about the way you were playing coming into the week? 
MAUDE‑AIMEE LEBLANC:   Pretty good.   The last week in Arkansas I didn't play well the last round, but my swing felt good.   It felt like it was getting better. 
I spent time with my coach here this week.   A lot of things improved in the last couple of days, so I'm looking forward to the next few days.

Q.   What did you work on? 
MAUDE‑AIMEE LEBLANC:   My takeaway, I tend to get the club face shut a little on the takeaway.   So it was hard to get the ball where I wanted to, but that improved a lot as well.   So short game as well, bunker play, I had a little lesson with my coach and that helped too. 

Q.   What is your reaction?   You are only two strokes off the lead after the first day? 
MAUDE‑AIMEE LEBLANC:   Yeah, it's nice.   That was one of my goals this week was to get in contention soon and that's been one of my struggles this year is to start on a good note.   So when I started with that double I was like, oh, no, not again.   I'm just glad everything felt good today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT