CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2011
Maude-Aimee Leblanc
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 5-under today, 8-under for the tournament. Obviously a big round in front of friends and family. Tell us about your round today. 
 MAUDE-AIMEE LEBLANC: It was a lot less pressure than yesterday for sure. It helped a lot to stay calm out there. I struggled a little bit with my drive through the day but made good par saves. No bogeys, I can't really complain about my game, made a lot of long putts too, so just a great day overall.

 Q. I don't know if you know yet, but tomorrow's round has been pushed up, the final round, because of the weather that's coming in. Outside possibility that tomorrow could be washed out, in which case they would declare a champion after today. How disappointing would it be for you personally not to be able to continue after going through the first three days of this tournament? 
 MAUDE-AIMEE LEBLANC: That would definitely be a bummer, but I really doubt that it's going to happen. It would be disappointing for sure, because I think I'm in a good momentum right now. I really enjoy playing in front of all of the crowd from Quebec. So, yeah, I would be disappointed for sure. 

 Q. I saw you yesterday on 9, you missed a short putt and you got a little upset. I could see the putter going against the green a little bit, so it's obvious that you're pretty competitive and I think you're pretty hard on yourself as well. So does the fact that you have extra people following you and everything, the pressure isn't there, right? You probably put as much pressure on yourself as the crowd does, right? 
 MAUDE-AIMEE LEBLANC: Yeah, for sure. I think everyone in this field is very competitive, so I definitely put a lot of pressure on myself. 
 But the crowd really helps me to accept some shots that I would usually be a little more frustrated and they helped a lot, so it's good.

 Q. What do you do tonight to make sure the nerves are nice and calm? 
 MAUDE-AIMEE LEBLANC: Probably just hang out with the family and have a nice dinner and just chill.

 Q. This is the stage obviously you've been hoping for. Did you think you'd be in position as top Canadian going into round four? 
 MAUDE-AIMEE LEBLANC: Coming to this tournament I like the way I played and the way I've been hitting the ball lately. So I felt like I had as good of a chance as anyone. But I mean, it's -- I'm really happy with the way I played and everything. It's good.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT