WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2016
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/S. Rogers
  6‑1, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English. 

Q. Your next‑round opponent is someone you know well. What are your thoughts on that, please? 
SABINE LISICKI: Well, I actually just found out because I didn't have a look at the draw. (Smiling.)
 Well, we know each other really well. We played doubles here final together and we had a great match. 2013, actually. 
I'll prepare tomorrow for that match. I have to be ready for the great serve, but I'm looking forward to the challenge.

Q. She has quite a good record against you overall. Why is that? What do you need to do differently?
SABINE LISICKI: What's the record?

Q. 5‑2.
SABINE LISICKI: And the last few? 
Q. I haven't looked at it that specifically. 
SABINE LISICKI: I think the last few were closer. I remember the first few matches. I mean, she has a big serve, big kick serve, so I couldn't handle that back then. You have to be ready for that.
As I said, we had a great match two, three years ago, so that's a good challenge. I have to be ready definitely. Otherwise it's not good. (Laughter.)
Q.But the grass will suit your game better than hers, you would think?
SABINE LISICKI: Probably, you know. But in the end of the day when you serve well on this surface it's a big advantage, yeah. 

Q. Important question about your outfit: How did you decide? 
SABINE LISICKI: About my outfit? It's good, no? 

Q. How did you decide to pick that one? I know Nike had options here. There was concern about the dress that some players were wearing. How did you come up with yours? Why did you choose it?
SABINE LISICKI: Why did I choose it? Because I felt comfortable in it. For me, the most important thing is to feel comfortable and not to think about anything, and with this I feel great. I like it. I think it looks good. It's classic. So that's why I picked that one.

Q. Had you tried the other dress?
SABINE LISICKI: Yes, I did.

Q. You didn't like it? Or are you uncomfortable in it?
SABINE LISICKI: I didn't feel comfortable showing that much. (Laughter.)
 Q.You have had such great results here on the grass. What is it that makes you play so well here and that you like about it?
SABINE LISICKI: Tough to say, but I really liked this place from the beginning. I think in this place you feel the history. It's just a magical place, I think. When I come here, I just feel really special to have the opportunity to play here.
I really enjoy it. And also, throughout the past, I came back here and, you know, the crowd lived through everything with me here. So I really feel comfortable and I feel like I have a lot of support here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT