WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2014
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/K. Pliskova
  6/3, 7/5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   So you did rather better against her on grass than on clay a little earlier this year.   What are the reasons for that today? 
SABINE LISICKI:   I think I'm ‑‑ well, a few months ago I still had problems with my injury, with the shoulder injury, so I was struggling a little bit there.
In Madrid I was just to find my game, so I'm feeling much better here.   I was ready for it because I knew she can hit very good serves, so I needed to be ready.

Q.   The gap has been closing with the surfaces to be sort of level.   Have you found it's less of an adjustment to play on all the surfaces?
SABINE LISICKI:   To be honest, I don't know.   I think it's good that we have different surfaces, and I think it's good that there are differences. 
You know, the game is completely different.   I think that's the whole point of it. 

Q.   Do you still prefer grass, or do you not like to think of it that way?
SABINE LISICKI:   I don't think about it that way.   I love playing on grass, but I don't say I hate playing on other surfaces.
I grew up playing on clay; I moved to the States very early, so I played a lot on hard courts.   It's about adjusting, I think. 

Q.   How do you feel about repeating last year's successes here?   Are you confident now? 
SABINE LISICKI:   You know, to be honest, I don't think about it.   It's in the back of my mind that I've always done so well here.   In the previous five years I've always played great tennis here.
It gives you confidence, and also to have so much support of the crowd is amazing.

Q.   One last question on the surface:   Are the adjustments you talk about more subtle?   You don't change your game from surface to surface much, do you?
SABINE LISICKI:   A little bit, of course.   Especially with the movement it changes a lot. 
On clay you slide and on grass you have to move differently than hard court.   There are quite a few changes, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT