WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2014
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/J. Glushko
  6/2, 6/1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   When you got back out there, did it feel like you'd never left?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, I was quite nervous.   I think it was a very nice gesture that Marion came out with the little child in memory of Elena Baltacha.   I think that was a very nice thing to do. 
I think that moment made it even more special. 

Q.   Nervous why? 
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, look, I played my first Grand Slam final last year and I'm returning to the court where I played it on.   That's normal that there are some nerves involved. 

Q.   Is that about defending points?
SABINE LISICKI:   No, no.   It's just a place that means so much to me.   I love that court so much.   It definitely helped me.   The crowd, as well, helped me to settle very quickly. 

Q.   How would you say your year has gone here the 12 months since the final?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, my last few months haven't been good.   With my shoulder injury, I was struggling.   I probably shouldn't have played, and I played. 
But, you know, it's about now.   I'm getting my rhythm back and playing the way I can play and get the confidence again.   So that's what's happening.   So that's the most important thing. 

Q.   How much better do you feel on grass? 
SABINE LISICKI:   I don't know what it is, but I guess because it's such a special place to me, it always has been.   Since I was growing up, it just always gets every inch out of me, every energy, it just gets the best out of me.   I think it does something magical to me when I come back here.

Q.   When you won your first match back, does it relax you or next round you'll still have the same nerves?
SABINE LISICKI:   No, it's just the first match is always tough.   A few weeks ago I was also wondering how I would feel to come back here and play the first round.   It was awesome. 

Q.   Is there one particular thing you remember most about last year of all the things?
SABINE LISICKI:   To be honest, there are quite a few.   But the Serena match and the Agnieszka match have the most memories because it was so intense.   And obviously the final you'll never forget either.

Q.   Marion says she still watches clips on YouTube.   Have you done the same at all?
SABINE LISICKI:   Before I went out there today, I did.   I did that yesterday.   I watched a little bit to calm down the nerves is all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT