ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2014
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. LISICKI/F. Ferro 
      6‑1, 7‑5 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   First match here.   Always difficult against an opponent you don't know.   How did you feel on the court?  
    SABINE LISICKI:   Good.   You know, it's been obviously difficult.   It's raining again.   So, yeah, we started much later than we thought, and it's never easy to play someone you have no clue how she plays.   
    But, you know, I was looking forward to playing.   I played quite well.  
   
 Q.   Good first set, 6‑1.   After that, a little down.   
    SABINE LISICKI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Happy to take five games and finish?  
    SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, I think that sums it up pretty well.   I played good in the first set and took a little break, which I'm not satisfied with.   But, you know, the most important thing is that I refocused and then kept playing my game again.  
   
 Q.   That refocus, is that something that you feel like Martina has helped you with as you have worked with her more and more, or what has she brought to your game specifically?  
    SABINE LISICKI:   I think it's more about the tactics and playing out the point that we talk about, and, you know, to still be aggressive and play my game but not make too many mistakes in the same time.   So I think that's always finding the right balance is the most important thing.  
   
 Q.   Along those same lines, would you say that Martina is a tough coach or is she hard on you or is she nice and friendly after the match is over?  
    SABINE LISICKI:   (Smiling.)   You know, we always say what we think.   It goes both ways.   I think that's how it works the best, you know, to say what you think and to talk about it, because that's when you can improve.  
   
 Q.   I'm curious, for somebody who obviously likes grass as much as you do, how do you feel about red clay, especially wet red clay?  
    SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, it definitely was a challenge.   It's much heavier, so you do have to play a tiny bit different than obviously on a dry clay court, which is much faster.   It's all about adjusting, I think.   
   
 Q.   Next round is against someone you know, Mona Barthel.   How do you feel about that?  
    SABINE LISICKI:   I just heard it now.   Yeah, playing someone who you know for a while is always a challenge, and, you know, but I'm looking forward to play another match here.  
   
 Q.   What did Martina say about your match today?  
    SABINE LISICKI:   We haven't spoken about it yet.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT