WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2013
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/A. Radwanska
  6‑4, 2‑6, 9‑7

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Your feelings right now. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Overwhelmed.   I'm just so happy.   Couldn't be any better, and couldn't be any better place to play the first Grand Slam final. 

Q.   I think you were nine when Steffi played her last Wimbledon final.   Do you remember that day, and what does it feel like for you to be in the final?
SABINE LISICKI:   I don't remember it, unfortunately.   But, you know, it's just an amazing feeling.   She wished me luck before the match.   So, you know, she told me to go for it, and I'm just so happy.   I was just fighting for every single point out there.   Fought my heart out there.

Q.   Did she call you or send you an email?
SABINE LISICKI:   She sent a text, yes.

Q.   How does it feel to be the first German to reach the final since Steffi?
SABINE LISICKI:   I think I haven't realized it yet.   When I arrived here at the tournament, I just, you know, said that anything's possible.   That's what I believed; I still do. 
I came to win every match that I walk on the court on, and that's what I've done so far.   So looking forward to Saturday. 

Q.   A lot of people are comparing this match to your match with Serena with the scorelines being similar.   Is there a way to compare the two? 
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, there is a comparison that I was down 3‑Love in the third and came back to win both matches, so... 
Yes, I wasn't able to serve it out, but she played an amazing game.   There was not much I could have done differently. 
But, you know, I just hung in there and played every single point.   Yes, and I was so happy to be able to serve it out the next chance that I had. 

Q.   It was such a thriller in the third set that even the electronic scoreboard had a heart attack.   Are things like these just out of your scope?   How did you regain your focus in the third set and pull through?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, the chair umpire, I didn't know what she wanted to tell me because I was so focused, but she wanted to let us know that the one scoreboard is not working.   I said, Okay, we still have another one (laughter). 
But, yes, you know, I go out there to win.   I fight for every single point and I still enjoy the game, so I think those are the main parts why I won today.

Q.   What happened in the second set?
SABINE LISICKI:   She played well. 

Q.   And that's it?
SABINE LISICKI:   Yes, I think so.   She made some really good points.   I made a few errors too many.   But I regained my focus and game in the third set, and that's the main part.

Q.   Did that help you going off for a break?
SABINE LISICKI:   Obviously not.   I was down 3‑Love.   But, you know, I just kept playing for every single point.   I just needed to change my shirt in between because I sweated a lot. 

Q.   Now that you're into the final, if you become the Wimbledon champion, what will that mean for your career and life?
SABINE LISICKI:   That would be a dream coming true.   I've been dreaming about that since I'm a little girl.   That's why I said it's the best place to play my first Grand Slam final.   I couldn't imagine any better place. 
I just can't wait to play Saturday.

Q.   On Saturday you will face a different type of opponent.   What sort of match do you expect with Marion?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, I haven't thought about it yet, to be honest. 

Q.   How do your styles compare?
SABINE LISICKI:   Marion is playing aggressive tennis.   I've played Serena, who plays aggressive, too.   Will be a completely different game than today. 
But, you know, it's another challenge, and I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.   The handshake at the end wasn't particularly warm.   It was a great match, and it went very, very quickly, the handshake.   Were you at all concerned by that?
SABINE LISICKI:   I didn't know why, no. 

Q.   When you first made the quarters here in '09, I think a lot of people were getting excited about your game, the big serve and stuff.   Do you feel like making the final now, four years later, is faster than expected?   Did you think it would come sooner?
SABINE LISICKI:   I haven't really thought about it.   I think two years ago I played an amazing Wimbledon, as well.   Played semis.   It was a completely different tournament for me as a wild card player.   I made some upsets there, as well. 
This time I felt much more ready for the tournament, for the entire tournament, and I have that belief. 

Q.   Can you talk about the dream of winning Wimbledon?   Did it happen after four hours of practice?   After a junior win?   When you were watching Wimbledon as a child?   Can you recall?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, the first time that I was here, I don't remember when it was, but when I was here I fell in love with Wimbledon.   It was the place I always wanted to play at, 'cause as a little girl you never know what's going to happen. 
It was always a dream to play on the Centre Court and win the tournament. 

Q.   Do you remember a court or a player?
SABINE LISICKI:   No, I don't.   I just remember the whole atmosphere being so special. 

Q.   How many autographs do you think you have given after the match?
SABINE LISICKI:   I don't know (laughter). 

Q.   How do you like the atmosphere, the fans at Wimbledon?   What does it mean to you?
SABINE LISICKI:   It's great.   It's so nice to have the support of the crowd.   There is no better feeling in the world to have so much support on that beautiful Centre Court here.   It makes it so much more fun. 

Q.   Do you believe in destiny?   Do you think there's some sort of destined run here?   The draw has broken open, but you've actually had a tough draw regardless. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Yes, I had a tough draw, but I think it made me ready for each and every single match that I had to play the next round. 
You know, having Francesca in the first round and Vesnina, the Eastbourne champion, all those matches were different challenges.   They made me ready to play against Serena, as well. 
I just keep going from there.   I gained so much confidence also in my shots and playing long rallies.   You know, I feel great out there. 

Q.   You've talked about the inspiration you drew from the time you were recovering after Indian Wells and how that's given ou confidence and belief.   At the time, did you ever believe that you could be at a level like this?
SABINE LISICKI:   Yes.

Q.   What was your most fervent dream?
SABINE LISICKI:   No, I always believed in it.   Always.   No matter what happened.   I can still remember when the doctor told me that I have to be on crutches the next six weeks. 
I was like, Okay, when can I get back?   That was my first question.   What does he think.   That period made me such a much stronger person and player that‑‑ you know, I know anything is possible after learning how to walk again.   Coming back to play semis after dropping to 220 in the rankings anything's possible. 

Q.   What you have achieved so far, I think a lot of people believe it's very inspiring.   Can you share with us, when you feel very down, in a difficult time, what makes you keep going, make you stronger?
SABINE LISICKI:   The passion for the sport.   That's the main part.   I love the sport so much.   I miss it so much when I cannot be out there on the court.   The love to the game just gives me the belief to overcome anything that comes. 
You know, also some biographies helped me to go through that.   Also some other inspiring stories.   You know, all that gives you the belief that you can do it. 

Q.   You're so popular in this country.   Are you more popular in England than you are in Germany, do you think?
SABINE LISICKI:   I don't know (laughter).   I think Germany's pretty happy right now. 

Q.   Can you tell us who has inspired you?
SABINE LISICKI:   Hermann Maier.   You know, I read his book while I was injured.   You know, almost losing his leg and then to come back and be the world champion in his sport, I think was an unbelievable story. 
Also Drew Brees, an American football player, quarterback.   Nobody believed he could come back after almost his shoulder‑‑ he has torn everything there was in the shoulder, and he still came back and was one of the best, so... 

Q.   Have you met either of them?
SABINE LISICKI:   Unfortunately, not.   I would love to, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT