WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2015
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. LISICKI/C. McHale
  2‑6, 7‑5, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   When did the match turn for you?   You had a disappointing first set and then you were broken immediately again.   Was it breaking back...   
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You knew it was going to be the turn?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, I think that was one of the key points in the match, and also obviously breaking to take the second set.  
   
 Q.   Your record here is quite distinguished.   How heavily did you have to draw on that to win that match today?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, experience always helps you.   I didn't play a good first set and I knew it.   So I knew I can do much better than that.   
So I was just focusing on the things that I can do rather than the balls that I missed.   Yeah, at that point I started to find my range and hit the ball better and better.   In the third set it was going very well again.   
   
 Q.   You're popular here, as well, aren't you?   Is that a help?  
SABINE LISICKI:   It does help a lot to have the support of the crowd, definitely.   
   
 Q.   Just one other thing.   You're one of nine German women who are in the top 100.   We have one.   Do you have any reason for explaining that?  
SABINE LISICKI:   (Smiling.)   We actually had to wait a long time for that to happen.   I think a few years ago we barely had one or two in the top 100, so, you know, the young ones coming up are doing a good job, so you have got to rely on that a little bit, as well.   
   
 Q.   Toni Nadal has been quoted as describing you as Germany's best player, but he says that he doesn't think that you're fit enough.   In the same article there was a suggestion that Martina Hingis urged you to lose weight, as well.   What do you say to those sort of comments?   Do they upset you in any way?  
SABINE LISICKI:   No, not all.   Critique is fine, and we are actually working on that aspect to get fitter and stronger to get even further in the game.  
   
 Q.   What sort of things are you doing differently now than you were doing before?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Working a lot on fitness.   We have done a lot of things in the past, but we have gone over the line a lot.  
So what was happening is I got injured a lot of times, so now I think we are working more smartly rather than always going over the borderline.  
I think it proves that we are doing something right, because I haven't been injured for the last eight, nine months.   So we are going in the right direction, and it does take a bit of time.   It doesn't come from today to tomorrow to be the fittest player.   
   
 Q.   Do you think that could make the difference between now and two years ago, when you got to the final, to taking that dream step to winning the Championships?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Hard to say.   I think I was playing very well two years ago and I was fit, as well.   I think it's more about playing the whole year long more consistently.   
As I said before, I was injured quite a lot, and I think it's the experience to know when to work a bit harder, when to take a bit off, to sometimes take tournaments that are a bit less important to keep improving.   So that's what we are trying to do better now.  
   
 Q.   Would you say you're the fittest you've ever been now then?  
SABINE LISICKI:   It's tough to say.   That's very hard to say (smiling).   
I don't know.   I won't judge that.   I think that I can improve, definitely.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT