WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2013
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/K. Kanepi
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You must be very happy with the way you got through that. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Definitely.   Uhm, you know, especially after yesterday's win.   I was ready today.   I knew from the past out of experience that I needed to make the switch quickly to be ready, and that's what I did. 
So I'm very pleased. 

Q.   This win was really emotional. 
SABINE LISICKI:   I think you saw that even in the press conference yesterday that I was already back to, you know, the business that I had to play out there again today. 
That's at least what I was thinking about.   You know, I think I did a good job with that. 

Q.   The effect of beating Serena yesterday, was it a liberating experience?   Did you feel perhaps you could do anything having done that, that pressure?
SABINE LISICKI:   There was for me no pressure at all.   I went out there to enjoy my game and win the match.   That's all I was focused about, that single match, each and every single point there. 
And, yeah, that's what I did. 

Q.   I was talking about the effect of Serena, beating Serena.   Did that have any, not pressure, but did it make you feel that perhaps anything was possible?
SABINE LISICKI:   I thought anything is possible before the tournament started, so... 

Q.   What will you take from your last semifinal here in terms of experience to help you in the next one?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, I know how it is to be in the semis.   I know the different atmosphere.   You know, everything is starting to get empty in the locker room.   It is, you know, a completely different feeling. 
But I'm glad that I had that experience before.   I feel much fresher, fitter, better than two years ago. 

Q.   What was that like last time?   Was it overwhelming?   Difficult to deal with?
SABINE LISICKI:   I don't really remember.   I just know that Maria played an unbelievable match.   It was the first or second time I played her.   I think this time I'm more ready. 

Q.   Why do you feel more prepared?   What is it that makes you feel better?
SABINE LISICKI:   I can't explain it really (laughter). 

Q.   You can try. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Uhm, I just feel like I'm hitting the ball well.   I think I'm moving well.   I feel good. 
And having had the experience in the past, all that together helps me a lot. 

Q.   We don't yet know who your opponent will be in the next round.   Could you take each one of the two possibilities and describe the challenge of facing each one of them. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, Agnieszka Radwanska plays a very smart game.   She moves well around the court.   She was in the final last year, so she has a lot of confidence with that. 
Against Li Na had a tough battle here two years ago, so I think that would be a great matchup, too. 

Q.   Would you elaborate on that?   What do you remember most about the match against Li Na?
SABINE LISICKI:   Being down match point and firing four great serves.

Q.   Two British newspapers today have printed a picture of you on the front page and not Andy Murray.   Everybody is crazy about the laughing girl from Germany.   Everyone is asking, How do you stay so positive with such a great attitude in such a competitive game like tennis?   What is your secret?   What is your recipe? 
SABINE LISICKI:   I think the passion to the game.   And also having the injury in the past.   Three years ago when I couldn't walk, I had to learn how to walk again, and that made me appreciate every single moment out there a lot more. 
That's why I don't let anybody take that away from me. 

Q.   Do you let yourself think about maybe winning the whole tournament now or are you still taking it match by match?
SABINE LISICKI:   Match by match.   Did that from the start and will continue to do that.

Q.   This is a question I should have asked yesterday.   Serena said she felt like you were reading her serve.   Today you also played against a player who has a huge serve and you managed to read it really well.   Do you think you have an ability of reading serves?
SABINE LISICKI:   I guess so (laughter). 
Well, you know, Serena was returning very well.   I had to return well; that's what I did. 
So, uhm, that definitely helps you on the grass, especially when you're having a great serve.   To be able to return well and break the opponent's serve is a great tool to have. 

Q.   Great support yesterday and today.   Is that a British T‑shirt you're wearing?
SABINE LISICKI:   Do you like it (laughter)? 

Q.   Are you the British fans' favorite now?
SABINE LISICKI:   I don't know.   I think you can say that better.   I heard that, but, you know, it's an unbelievable feeling to get so much support here.   It was an amazing atmosphere out there yesterday, the crowd pulling me through that match. 
And today cheering me on, as well.   It's the best feeling in the world. 

Q.   How different were you feeling walking into the court today than yesterday?
SABINE LISICKI:   It was a different matchup.   I was just as focused as yesterday because I knew I had to be even more because I knew it's going to be tough after yesterday's match to just keep the level up. 
But, you know, I think I did a very good job to go for my shots and play smart.   It had to be a different game today.

Q.   You mentioned the difficult period of recovery that you had in your life.   How does that inspire you?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, as I said, you know, once you have to learn how to walk again, it just shows you how we actually have to appreciate to have two healthy legs and be able to walk. 
Being on crutches, you can't carry anything.   You need the help of somebody else.   So just being able to walk again and carry my own stuff was great. 
And then, you know, to come back on the court to compete and then to go even further than I did before the injury gives you a lot of strength, you know.   It's a different feeling when you're out there now. 

Q.   Did you have any trouble today with your opponent?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, she's a tough opponent.   You can never underestimate anybody in the quarterfinal.   She has beaten Angelique.   She's gotten here for a reason.   She had a good serve.   She can hit the ball hard, as well. 
I was aware of that.   You know, but I played my game through that match. 

Q.   Steffi Graf is the most famous German player.   Does it help to have an example like that or is it more of a burden?
SABINE LISICKI:   Neither for me.   I focus on myself.   I want to do the best that I can do, and that's all I'm worrying about. 

Q.   It was less than 24 hours from the end of your match yesterday to the beginning of your match today.   You talked about mentally how you flipped.   What were those less than 24 hours like?   What were you doing? 
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, uhm, I was doing a lot of recovery because I knew we don't have so much time.   Then just went back home and ate well and went to sleep quite early to get as much sleep as possible to recover. 
Then had the usual things this morning:   Went to warm up the same time as yesterday and got ready for my match. 

Q.   You seem to be playing with such joy.   You spoke about your love of the game.   What is it that you love about tennis?
SABINE LISICKI:   I think there are a lot of things.   First of all, to have your hobby as a job is something that not a lot of people say they can have.   That opportunity that my parents gave me, you know, I'm very thankful for that. 
You know, the traveling around, meeting different cultures, playing in the biggest stadiums of the world, especially playing in full stadiums, the center courts, is what I love the most. 

Q.   What center courts have you played on that are special memories for you?
SABINE LISICKI:   All of them except French Open.   Well, Wimbledon.   I've done the best here.   You know, I've got a lot of support here.   I just love stepping out on that court. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT