WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2013
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/S. Williams
  6‑2, 1‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did you manage to control your emotions?   It seemed to be almost all too much for you. 
SABINE LISICKI:   I think everybody who knows me knows that I'm an emotional person.   I enjoy the game on the court and off the court, as well. 
Now I'm fine.   I was very happy after the match, obviously.   But now I'm looking forward to playing tomorrow again. 

Q.   Am I right you said 'thank you' to her as you shook hands?
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, because she said something to me.

Q.   May I ask what she said?
SABINE LISICKI:   I wouldn't say it. 

Q.   Do you feel yourself better in Wimbledon than anywhere else?
SABINE LISICKI:   Uhm, it depends.   Now I have a very good rhythm.   I think before the tournament I started to serve really well already in Birmingham.   I think I found my rhythm again.   I hope I can keep it up. 

Q.   How does it feel to come here time after time and beat the reigning French Open champion?
SABINE LISICKI:   It feels very good.   Obviously I went into the match feeling that I could win.   Played very good first three matches and I felt ready for this match. 

Q.   Why do you always destroy the winner of the French Open?
SABINE LISICKI:   I don't know.   I just feel very comfortable here.   They always happen to be on the side of the draw where I am, so... 

Q.   When you knew you were playing Serena, you knew you were playing the best player in the world.   Did something in your mind say, She won the French, maybe I can do it again?
SABINE LISICKI:   Already before the match I was ready for that.   I went out on the court to win the match.   That's my goal.   That's every time I go out on the court. 
You know, gave me a little more energy knowing that she won the French Open and I beat the French Open champion three times in a row in my last three appearances, so... 
Good omen. 

Q.   You clearly enjoyed playing with the pressure off today.   Your win means bookmakers have you as the favorite to take the championship.   Does that affect you in any way?
SABINE LISICKI:   No, not at all.

Q.   Not even a little bit?
SABINE LISICKI:   No. 

Q.   Did you notice anything different at all in Serena's play? 
SABINE LISICKI:   I think I put more pressure on her.   I started to be more aggressive again.   I started to serve better.   I just hang in there. 
I really wanted to win it. 

Q.   Did you lose faith at all during that stretch in which she won those games in a row?   You were down 3‑Love in the third set. 
SABINE LISICKI:   No, never. 

Q.   How were you able to?
SABINE LISICKI:   I was very unlucky.   I think it was second game of the third set when I was up 40‑15.   She had two net cords in a row.   Then again when she served, I don't know what the score was, but again they called it late out after a good shot of mine. 
You know, I just was fighting for every single point no matter what was happening out there.   You know, Serena's a very tough player.   That's why she is No.1 in the world.   I'm just so glad that I could pull off the win today. 

Q.   When you were a girl growing up, was it your dream to win Wimbledon?
SABINE LISICKI:   Yes.

Q.   Or was it becoming world No.1?
SABINE LISICKI:   Win Wimbledon and be No.1 in the world.

Q.   In your previous matches against her, did you have the same mental attitude or did you come in with a different attitude determined to win this?   Did you go into all three exactly the same?
SABINE LISICKI:   Exactly the same.   I knew I had a tough draw.   I played Francesca in the first match, then Vesnina who won Eastbourne, then Sam who played better than ever on grass.   I think in a way those three matches prepared me for today's match.

Q.   What I mean is, the first two times you played Serena, did you have a different attitude playing her today?
SABINE LISICKI:   Yes, because I knew how she plays. 

Q.   Do you think Serena will come back as strong next year?
SABINE LISICKI:   Oh, that's a long time to go.   Let's see. 

Q.   How do you think it will affect her, this loss?
SABINE LISICKI:   I don't know.   I think she can answer that better. 

Q.   To what extent can you add this to the Polish success of today, considering your roots? 
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, it's obviously nice.   I heard in the men's draw there are two Polish playing against each other in the quarterfinals.   You know, I think it's good for the tennis. 

Q.   Your next opponent is Kaia Kanepi.   What do you think about her?
SABINE LISICKI:   I never played her before.   Not really sure.   My coaches will do some scouting.   We'll watch some tapes and get me ready for that match. 

Q.   She also beat Kerber. 
SABINE LISICKI:   I know, yeah. 

Q.   (Question about coming back after a big win.)
SABINE LISICKI:   I'm already focused for tomorrow. 

Q.   You clearly weren't fazed playing Serena.   With that sort of attitude, you're relishing rather than having any nerves about it?
SABINE LISICKI:   You know, I feel great.   I really played four very, very good matches.   I think I played better with each match.   I get more and more confident ‑ with my strokes, as well as my game. 
So I am looking forward to playing tomorrow again. 

Q.   I believe you're heading out to play doubles this evening.   Is that right?
SABINE LISICKI:   They were talking about it, yes.

Q.   How will you come physically and mentally back on tomorrow?
SABINE LISICKI:   I feel great. 

Q.   Can you explain what you will do to make sure that doesn't happen?
SABINE LISICKI:   The usual stuff.   Cool down, eat well, sleep well, be ready for tomorrow. 

Q.   Why have you been so much more successful here than at any of the other Grand Slam tournaments?   How much of that is even a mental thing of coming in here knowing that you've had success here in the past or more just purely that your game works well on the grass better than other surfaces?
SABINE LISICKI:   I think there are a few things, but also that I feel very comfortable here.   Having the house, having the whole team being in the house, being able to cook, having a great atmosphere. 
Then obviously playing on grass, as well, which suits my game very good.   That's probably one thing we're trying to do more often in the future, to be able to rent apartments at tournaments, because that's when I feel most comfortable. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT