WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2012
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. LISICKI/S. Stephens
  7‑6, 1‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It looked like a tough encounter for you out there.   
SABINE LISICKI:   Yes, Sloane plays great.   She's a good, talented young girl.   I knew she can serve well, so, you know, had to take my chances.   That's what I did in the third set quite well.   I'm happy that I got through.  
   
 Q.   Obviously there is a comparison to be made with the Williams sisters.   She's touted as the next big thing.   How would you make that comparison?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, she plays a bit differently, but, you know, I think it's hard to compare players to each other, because everybody has a bit different style of play.  
So, you know, it's good to see someone coming up from the States after the Williams sisters.   You know, we'll see what happens within the next couple of years.  
   
 Q.   Can I just ask about in your last game‑ not this one but the last one against Jovanovski ‑ you made a complaint to the umpire about her noise.   You've got Maria in the next round who is obviously fairly noisy.   Will that feature at all in your plans?   I know you have played her before and last year at the semifinal, but clearly it's off‑putting for you.   
SABINE LISICKI:   I'll go into the match and focus on myself.   We'll see what happens out there.   It's another challenge.   I love playing those big matches, so, you know, I'm just looking forward to it, really.  
   
 Q.   Does it put you off, the noise from the other side of the net on a regular basis, or is it just...   
SABINE LISICKI:   It did the last match.   That's why I complained.   It was better afterwards.   It was fine.  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking when you were down 5‑2 in that tiebreaker in the first set?   Was all hope lost?  
SABINE LISICKI:   No, no, not at all, no.   You know, the match is never over till the last point is finished.   It doesn't matter if it's first set tiebreak or last set.   
I knew I made some easy mistakes to go down 2‑5.   I had chances.   The conditions were hard.   It was very windy, but, you know, I adjusted well, I think.   Just calmed down and went for my shots and made them.  
   
 Q.   Can you describe what the challenge is when you play against Maria Sharapova?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, she's a great competitor how she fights for every point.   Obviously she has a lot of confidence obviously coming off the French Open now.  
You know, she hits it flat and hard, and, you know, she's a champion, won so many Grand Slams.   You know, it's nice to play her again, and, you know, I'm just looking forward to that big match again.  
   
 Q.   What are the mental and physical challenges given how well she has been playing lately?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, it's always hard to play her.   She's a great player.   We had a very close match in Australia, played a great match.  
So, you know, it was definitely really close, and I'm looking forward to playing here in Wimbledon again.  
   
 Q.   What do you remember about when she won here?   Did you watch it on TV?   When she won the championship here years ago, do you remember seeing it on TV?   Do you have any memories of that?  
SABINE LISICKI:   No, not really.   I just remember that she won it as a 17‑year‑old, but I didn't really see a lot of matches, because in Germany I don't think they showed it on EuroSport (smiling).  
   
 Q.   You were up in the second set in the semifinal last year.   Did it take a lot to come back from that sort of disappointment?   You did have a chance last year.   
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, I did have a chance.   I was playing well.   But, you know, she's a great fighter, so she was striking the ball well, and, you know, I played her again in the Australian Open.   You know, I put up a great fight, and it was very close.   I mean, we had a 17‑minute game in the third set.   I think that was the deciding game, and I lost by a break.   
So I love those matches.   It's a great challenge.   It's a good thing to improve, as well.   
   
 Q.   In those tight matches with her, what has been the slight difference, do you think?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, in the first few matches I obviously didn't know much how it feels to play her, but I think that was much better in the Australian Open.   I knew what to expect and how she plays, how it feels to play her.   
So, you know, I just have to go for my shots and don't make too many mistakes.   We'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   What did you make of Sloane?   She's an up‑and‑coming potential star.   How do you think she played?   Third set she missed a few grounds but the first two sets she played very well.   
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, she's a great, talented, young American girl.   She hits it quite hard, as well, at times and has a good serve.   
It was fun to play out there.   I mean, tricky conditions, so it's never easy.   But, you know, I'm happy that I played well and took my chances especially in the third set to win it.  
   
 Q.   Do you think she's got, in terms of her future, a bright future ahead of her?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Of course.   I mean, as long as you work hard, anybody can go up there.   So it always depends.  
You need a little bit of luck, as well.   So, you know, we'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   If you watched it last night, what were your thoughts watching the way the Nadal match unfolded?  
SABINE LISICKI:   I didn't watch it.   I was watching the Germany soccer match.   Sorry.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT