QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 14, 2012
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KERBER/S. Lisicki
  4‑6, 6‑4, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It seemed pretty even out there and then it got away in the third set.   Can you tell us what happened?  
SABINE LISICKI:   I think in general I played an awful match.   I think in the last 10 tournaments I made as many unforced errors as today alone.  
So, no, I didn't play well.   So I was sick last week, but still, you know, I was practicing, came here, wanted to play.   Unfortunately, well, played bad today, just simply.  
   
 Q.   Anything in particular in your game that you thought was going wrong, or could you pinpoint it?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, lack of energy in the third set, for sure.   But, you know, I gave it all I had, and that's all you can ask for.  
Just, it was a bad day, awful day.   
   
 Q.   It's been a long ride for you from this time last year to where you are now in the rankings.   But still, weeks like this, are they frustrating?   Because of where you are now, is it easy to up and go, or...   
SABINE LISICKI:   Um, well, I had a similar phase like this last year, exactly, one year ago, so I know you just have to be strong.   Of course it's frustrating, because you want to continue to play well and get better.  
This is a little setback, but it's not going to stop me.   So I just have to continue to work hard and try to play better in the next match.   That's all you can ask for.   So, you know, I have to go from here.   
I'm still playing doubles, so, you know, I have to go step by step back into better shape.  
   
 Q.   An Olympics question for you.   Do you feel like tennis has always been a part of the Olympics?   Because you're like the first generation that kind of grew up thinking tennis and Olympics, I would think.   
SABINE LISICKI:   For me it was always a part of the Olympics, and I'm very much looking forward to the Olympics.   I have many friends that have been there, and they've told me how nice it is.  
I'm sure it's an extraordinary experience to just be there and play.   For me, it's even nicer that it's going to be held in Wimbledon on grass, so it's good.  
   
 Q.   You played Kvitova last week in the Fed Cup.   Do you think in a way that Kvitova and Azarenka have sort of pulled away from the rest of you guys?  
SABINE LISICKI:   They're playing good.   I mean, for me I have played a very good Australian Open, and I just need those matches.   I need the matches against the top players.   They're a bit different, because every little point can count for me.   
When I played Sharapova and 1‑All in the third set, there was one game that went 14 minutes long.   And if I could have won that one, maybe it would have been different.   So they have a lot of experience in those matches, I think, and that's what makes them better, I think, at the moment to know exactly how to play those big points to win them.  
   
 Q.   I'm just wondering, do you look at Azarenka as a more legitimate No. 1 than Wozniacki because she hadn't won a Grand Slam?   There is obviously people who feel that because she played often and played deep that she deserved it, and then there are people who feel like you have to win the Grand Slam.   
SABINE LISICKI:   You know, we have the point system, and I think when you're No. 1 you're No. 1 for a reason.   You've won a lot of points to be there, so, you know, it's just the ranking system.   It works that way.   That's how it is.   
   
 Q.   So you had no questions with Wozniacki being...   
SABINE LISICKI:   No.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT