AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2012
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/S. Lisicki
  3‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What did you feel wasn't working so well out there tonight?   Was it just consistency?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, I think I didn't start too well.   But then I just hung in there.   I kept fighting.   You know, I'm hitting the ball pretty well, so I knew I can do some damage with that.   I was obviously running pretty well, moving well.   
So, yeah, I thought it was a very good game.   Unfortunately she made some great serves in the third set when I had breakpoints.   Not much I could do there at that moment.   She served right on the line.   
But I kept fighting till the very last point, and unfortunately it wasn't enough today.   
   
 Q.   How important do you think that third game in the third set was?  
SABINE LISICKI:   I think it was quite important, but also the game at 2‑3 where she broke me.   
It was very close, you know, the entire match.   When the match is that close, really every single point counts at that moment.   
I mean, one year ago I was in the quallies here.   Now I was so close to beating one of the best players in the world.   So I'm taking lots of positive things out of here, you know, keep building on it.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a goal to reach the top 10?   You're very close now.   
SABINE LISICKI:   Close.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a date set?  
SABINE LISICKI:   No, I don't.   You know, I really want to enjoy myself on the court.   I don't want to put too much pressure on myself.   
That's how I went into Wimbledon last year.   I did so well.   So I'm not changing my goals, my settings, that way.   
So, you know, it obviously works.   I think the crowd likes it, as well.   It's been amazing, you know, to feel the crowd behind me.   It's been so much fun.   
So, no, I keep working hard and we'll see how soon I can break the top 10.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT