AEGON CLASSIC BIRMINGHAM
June 19, 2015
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. LISICKI/D. Hantuchova
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Having won here in 2011, do you think that gives you a little advantage psychologically in the later stages of a tournament like this?   
SABINE LISICKI:   I don't know.   I think just being back on the grass helps me a lot.   
   
 Q.   You've reached the semifinal and the final in Wimbledon in the past five years.   Do you feel doing well in tournaments like the Aegon Classic is important to form in a Grand Slam?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Definitely.   It helps a lot to build confidence on the grass.   I'm always happy when I play a lot of matches on grass.   
The week after Birmingham I always take off and go early to London so, it's always good to play a lot of matches here.  
   
 Q.   Your record with Kerber isn't the best.   Do you feel like you're in the right place mentally and physically to overcome her as an opponent?  
SABINE LISICKI:   I heard it's not the best record, and I really hope to change that.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Grass is your best surface; however, is it your favor one?   
SABINE LISICKI:   Yes, it is, definitely.   
   
 Q.   And your serve has been outstanding thus far in the tournament.   Do you feel that's your best outlet to win this tournament and go on to Wimbledon as well?   
SABINE LISICKI:   It definitely helps on grass.   It's one of the, if not "the" most important shots, because you're in full control of it.   
So it's obviously nice to have to working well, yes.   
   
 Q.   What's it going to be like to go up against a Fed Cup teammate?   Does that affect how you approach the match at all?  
SABINE LISICKI:   We actually practiced this week together.   Yeah, I didn't know that I have such a bad record against her, but I'm just happy to be back on the grass, back in the semifinal.   
I've played some good matches, and I think I can still improve.   I'm just happy to be back in that position and have another chance to go to the final.  
   
 Q.   In terms of your general fitness, you've had a few injuries.   
SABINE LISICKI:   Not in the past nine months, knock on wood.  
   
 Q.   Exactly.   I was going to say, right now you're in real good form.   
SABINE LISICKI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Are you confident that you can turn around this awful record?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Hopefully.   I feel good.   I'm looking forward to having fun and enjoying myself on the court.   
So it's nice to be back here in Birmingham.   I feel the support from the crowd.   It is special to come back.   It is, definitely.   
   
 Q.   This has nothing to do with anything today, but I'm doing a survey.   If you're at a tournament and they played like walk‑on music and they said, Is there a song you want us to play when you enter the court, is there one specific song that you would say, This is what I want?  
SABINE LISICKI:   There is not one specific song.   It would probably change every second or third week.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   What's the song of the moment then?   
SABINE LISICKI:   It's between two.   It's one German song which was known at the World Soccer Cup when we won last year, so that was the big one for us.  
And Lean on is the other one.   
   
 Q.   One more question:   Fed Cup, while I'm thinking about it, some people were asking some ATP guys earlier in the year if they thought maybe having it every year was not a good thing.   Maybe every other year.   Any thoughts on that?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Not really, to be honest.   
   
 Q.   Even allowing for the difficulties you had?   Because two years in a row in Stuttgart it's been a very quick turnaround for you, for the German team in particular, because you're going so deep.   No thoughts on that?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Oh, definitely, no, it's not so good for us coming from Fed Cup.   You don't have a chance usually to arrive on Sunday.   You're arriving on Monday and have to play in Stuttgart, so it's definitely tough for all of us.  
It's not very good for us in that way, no.   It's not a good preparation.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT