U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2011
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. LISICKI/I. Falconi
  6-0, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about your form now?   
 SABINE LISICKI: You know, it was great to get so many wins under your belt before coming to a Grand Slam, so I'm very pleased with my title in Dallas and obviously with the way I was playing today.   
 So it's good.   
  
  Q. A lot of players have said before that some of them need time to get confidence. Some are bored with confidence and have always had it. How about you?   
 SABINE LISICKI: Well, I had to really get my confidence back after the injury. So I really had to start from zero in every department, which was the hard part.   
 But, you know, with each win I got more and more confident. You know, obviously Birmingham and Wimbledon helped a lot. Just kept going since then.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you have played too many matches before the tournament? Do you feel any fatigue?  
 SABINE LISICKI: No, I feel good. I actually feel good when I play a lot of matches. So, you know, just makes me more comfortable on the court.   
 Especially with my late arrival here, coming on Monday, it helped a lot that I had many matches under my belt.   
  
  Q. What tells you that your game is ready to take the next step? Can you take the next step? Do you know your game is there?  
 SABINE LISICKI: You always have to take it one step at a time in a Grand Slam - or any tournament - one match at a time.   
 My goal is to get better each day, to improve. You know, obviously I look at the results, but that's not the most important thing. Because, you know, after my injury I really had to focus on each day to get better and better slowly. It was a long progress.   
 But that just showed me that you just have to keep working and it will pay off eventually.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about your next match with Vera.   
 SABINE LISICKI: I'm really looking forward to it. I hope I can get a revenge. We played here last year and we played in San Diego, those two on hard courts. It was really close in San Diego. There I was really tired, but I was playing well. I'm playing well now, as well.   
 You know, we'll see. I hope I can get a revenge this time.   
  
  Q. Today you hit a lot of dropshots and the volley. You tried to have your dropshot volley work, it's what you tried to do?  
 SABINE LISICKI: You know, since I'm a little girl, I always like to play dropshots and just play tennis, not only hit it as hard as I can, but really play and enjoy the game.   
 Obviously the volleys are getting better with me playing doubles. So I'm feeling more and more comfortable at the net. That's obviously also something that will help me in the future, I think.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT