U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2011
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. If you could tell us when you found out about this.   
 SABINE LISICKI: I just found out, I don't know, half hour ago or so. I was getting ready for my match and was in the locker room. So, yeah, that's when the referee told me.  
  
  Q. Did you see Venus here at all today?  
 SABINE LISICKI: Oh, yeah, I saw her and I heard she practiced as usual. I saw her in her match clothes so was fully prepared and really looking forward to the match.  
 Yeah, I hope she will be fine quick.  
  
  Q. Do you feel disappointed that you're unable to play?  
 SABINE LISICKI: Kind of.   
  
  Q. Mixed emotions?   
 SABINE LISICKI: Yeah, it is. I was really looking forward to the match. I love those big matches and playing against Venus. We had two amazing matches the last two meetings. I was really looking forward to it.  
 But that's tennis. Sometimes you get injured or sick. I don't know what her problem was, so, yeah, unfortunate.  
  
  Q. You wouldn't use the word "lucky" to describe the fact that you don't have to face her, then?  
 SABINE LISICKI: No, I was looking forward. Every challenge makes you a better player. That's how I see it. I'm looking for the long run. So I want to get better each day.   
 Unfortunate, but it happens.   
  
  Q. Had you seen her play an Monday? She was pretty impressive.   
 SABINE LISICKI: Yeah, I just saw a couple of highlights. I didn't see the entire match because I just arrived. But, yeah, no, she was playing very good. I was really looking forward to it.  
  
  Q. You said you saw her in the locker room or on the courts? Where did you see her today?  
 SABINE LISICKI: Yeah, both.   
  
  Q. She didn't say anything to you one way or another?  
 SABINE LISICKI: No. That's why I was surprised.  
  
  Q. Since your match got canceled, do you use the extra time to practice?  
 SABINE LISICKI: I practiced already twice today. I came here early in the morning to hit on Ashe, and then I practiced one more time just before my match to warm up.  
 So I think I had enough hits for today. I'm playing doubles tomorrow and then singles the day after tomorrow again. I think I'll just rest up.  
  
  Q. She says she has an immune disease of some sort that causes pain in her joints. I guess it's a chronic problem, a problem she has a lot. So I guess I would ask you, if this is the end for Venus Williams, how would you think of her career?  
 SABINE LISICKI: Well, I haven't heard the reason until you just told me. You know, I think she's a tough girl and I think she'll come back.   
 You know, it would be unfortunate if she couldn't. Serena and Venus both are amazing players and it's nice to have them in the women's sport. I hope she comes back. It makes it more challenging.  
  
  Q. When you saw her, did you see anything you would describe as unusual?  
 SABINE LISICKI: No.  
  
  Q. No physios around, nobody like that?  
 SABINE LISICKI: No.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT