U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2011
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/A. Bondarenko
  6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How did Court 17 feel? It's a new court. 
 SABINE LISICKI: Very nice. You know, I just got here yesterday at 4:00, so really didn't have a lot of time to adjust. But I think I did a pretty good job.
 Yeah, Court 17 was nice. New court, and a great atmosphere out there and lots of people were there, so it was nice.

 Q. It seemed like you were having a little bit of trouble with your toss on your serve. Do you think that had anything to do with the court?
 SABINE LISICKI: Not with the court, obviously. But, you know, everything is different here. It's a little bit windy, you know, but that's all right. I think I did well enough to win today.

 Q. What is your confidence level coming off of Dallas?
 SABINE LISICKI: Oh, very good. I mean, I won everything in straight sets, but the most important thing for me was I was hitting the ball cleanly. So, you know, I was getting better with each match.
 So, you know, that's what you're looking for when you play the week before a big Grand Slam. So, yeah, no, it was definitely very good.

 Q. Any parallels to the grass court winning before going to Wimbledon, just the momentum that brought you to the semis?
 SABINE LISICKI: Oh, definitely. You know, it's always good to come in with a lot of confidence into a Grand Slam, so I think that helped me a lot today, as well. 
 You know, I never came in on a Monday to a Grand Slam, so, you know... 

 Q. You got here today?
 SABINE LISICKI: Monday.

 Q. Oh, yesterday?
 SABINE LISICKI: Yesterday at 4:00. I just had one practice and warmup this morning. That was it. 
 So, you know, not easy, but, you know, I'm a tough girl. That's fine.

 Q. Some people are talking about you as a dark horse candidate to maybe win here as a first-time Grand Slam winner. What do you think of that? Do you pay attention to it?
 SABINE LISICKI: No, I honestly don't, because, you know, the main part for me is improve with each day and, you know, have fun out there and fight. 
 You know, that's what I did in Birmingham, Wimbledon, Dallas, and throughout the hard court season. So I just want to keep it that way. It works for me. 
 I'm just taking it one match at a time and enjoying myself on the court.

 Q. Playing Venus second round, how tough is that gonna be?
 SABINE LISICKI: I don't know. I haven't seen her play yesterday because, you know, I was practicing. That was my only hit.
 But we played twice, and twice we had a very, very good match. So, you know, I think it really depends who plays better that given day and that person will win, I think. That's my opinion. 
 That's how it was the last two times. I played better the first time and she played a little bit better the second time we played.
 So, you know, that's for sure going to be a nice match.

 Q. Do you just feel like you're a favorite? I mean, obviously Venus has won here twice; yet she hasn't played all year or played very little this year, and you've had these victories. Do you feel like you're a favorite or do you go in with the confidence of a favorite?
 SABINE LISICKI: I just go into the match willing to win, you know. I just want to fight and play my best and see what happens. You know, the Williams sisters always play well at the Grand Slams, and you can never underestimate them.
 So, you know, it's for sure going to be a tough match. A very good challenge. But, you know, if you want to succeed, you have to beat the best. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT