WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2011
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/P. Cetkovska
  7-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What are your thoughts about the level of your game and the opportunity that you have ahead? 
 SABINE LISICKI: Um, well, I think I did a pretty good job today. You know, it's never easy to come off a huge win against Na Li on Centre Court and then to play on smaller courts. Still, for me, I take it as matches at Wimbledon and I still love it. 
 Yeah, I mean, I did what I had to do. I'm really looking forward to the next round.

 Q. If it's Serena Williams in the next round, what do you take from the match that you played here against her two years ago, and how would you describe the challenge for you?
 SABINE LISICKI: I've never played Serena before so it would be something new, but I'm obviously playing good tennis, serving very well. (Smiling.) She's playing good, too.
 First she has to play now. You cannot look too far ahead. It's either Marion or Serena. We'll see at the end. 

 Q. What's your level of excitement to be this far at Wimbledon? 
 SABINE LISICKI: It's just amazing. Before I started the grass season, I didn't really know what to expect because I haven't played on grass in two years.
 But I won the title in Birmingham, so I felt confident coming into Wimbledon. Here I am in the quarters once again, which is such an amazing feeling. 
 You know, especially after the injury, to get back to be in the quarters at such a special place like here, it's just the best thing that could happen.

 Q. Shortly after that injury, would this have seemed possible to you? 
 SABINE LISICKI: You mean last year? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 SABINE LISICKI: Well, I knew I'm going to get back. I was very disciplined and really wanted to get back, so I was never in doubt. I just didn't know when it's going to come. 
 So I was really working hard and putting all the work into my training. I knew at some point it's going to pay off, and it's starting to do so.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT