WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2011
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/N. Li
  3-6, 6-4, 8-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What does that mean to you after everything you've been through?
 SABINE LISICKI: So much. I mean, it's been such a long and hard road to come back from my injury. I really had to start from zero. You know, in the last two-and-a-half months, I just started to play step by step better and better. So, you know, my game was coming together. 
 Also with Birmingham, you know, winning the title, I was so looking forward to playing on grass again after playing the quarterfinal two years ago here. You know, it's just such an amazing feeling to be back here on Centre Court and beat the French Open champion once again. 

 Q. You certainly did it the hard way, didn't you? 
 SABINE LISICKI: I just wanted to stay out there longer (laughter). 
 I enjoyed it so much. It's been a really, really good match. You know, the crowd really helped me, as well. I didn't know it could get so noisy in there. It's just been fantastic out there. 
 So, you know, had lots of support from the crowd. 

 Q. Did you ever think you would get back to this kind of stage?
 SABINE LISICKI: Yes, yeah. I was fully determined to come back. I didn't know how long it will take. But, you know, I was putting all the hard work in. I was fighting for it. I knew I'm going to come back strong. And I think I came back stronger. 

 Q. What was it like, those days last year?
 SABINE LISICKI: Oh, it's been terrible. I mean, I really literally had no muscles in my left calf after seven weeks on crutches. So I had to start to, you know, learn how to walk again. 
 So it's been a very, very long road back, and tough road back. But, uhm, you know, that makes those moments right now sweeter. 

 Q. Accounting for the tears at the end?
 SABINE LISICKI: Yes. 

 Q. Obviously your serve is such a huge weapon. Do you feel that makes you a very dangerous player on grass?
 SABINE LISICKI: Oh, yes, definitely. And, uhm, you know, I think my game suits the grass very well. And obviously a good serve is, uhm, you know, important, but also you have to use it well. And I think I'm serving quite smart, as well. 
 So, uhm, it definitely helped me today double match point down. So it's good to have a weapon like that. 

 Q. What goes through your head at that moment when you know it's 15-40? Are you trying to get the service winner straight off or trying to play more the percentages?
 SABINE LISICKI: I usually always go for my serve, so... And I didn't hold back at 15-40. I think it was 3-5, 15-40. You know, again, the crowd really supported me. They became so, so loud. That was the moment where I was like, Okay, I don't want to get off that court yet. 

 Q. Li Na's coach said your serve was so powerful, it sort of seemed like a man's serve. Would you like to comment on that? 
 SABINE LISICKI: Yeah, I always had a powerful serve. And I think it's one of the best in women's tennis. So, uhm, you know, once again, it's very good to have a weapon like that. 
 You know, I've been lucky to have a good serve like that, you know, building up since my juniors. So, uhm, you know, it's been, uhm, I guess I'm gifted with a good serve. 

 Q. Do you know anything about Misaki Doi?
 SABINE LISICKI: No, I don't know anything about her. Right now I'm enjoying my match from today. It's been a very, very good match, on a very high level. She didn't give me anything. I really had to work for it. 
 So, uhm, you know, I'm just happy to be to the next round and I'll enjoy it more than ever and hopefully I'll play well again. 

 Q. You're not too bothered you've upset 1.4 billion people?
 SABINE LISICKI: Yeah, I'm sorry (laughter). 
 But, you know, out there on the court it's one against one. You have to beat the opponent you're playing. So that's all I was thinking about. So, you know, uhm, I'm sure Germany's proud of me right now.

 Q. You must be confident that you can have another sort of really good run here now?
 SABINE LISICKI: Uhm, yes. I knew it's going to be a tough match, especially, uhm, because Na was coming from a French Open title, a Grand Slam title. 
 I also had a very good run in Birmingham. I won the title on grass. We were playing here on grass. I simply love it here. I love Wimbledon. 
 It was heartbreaking last year not being able to come back. So I really, really enjoy it to be back. Uhm, you know, I just wanted to go out there, play my best tennis and, uhm, see what happens. Coming off with a win is just amazing. 
 Now, you know, I enjoy it and then it's, uhm, back to work again.

 Q. The French Open was obviously very tough for you as well. Great to come out on top of a really tight match today. 
 SABINE LISICKI: Oh, yeah, definitely. I was fighting for every point. As I said, Na didn't give me anything. I really had to work for it. That makes the winning that match even better because I know she didn't give it to me. I really had to work for it, and I won it.

 Q. You've been through a few dramas in the last couple weeks, the Birmingham title, finding out you had a wild card. You must feel like you've earned your wild card now. 
 SABINE LISICKI: Yeah, I'm very, very thankful for getting the wild card here. It's such a special place for me. Uhm, you know, I played very well in Birmingham, but still they didn't have to give me the wild card. 
 I was very happy when they told me that I'm getting it, that I'll get another chance to play here. Uhm, I really wanted to win my first match. 
 I knew Na was waiting in the second round. And then, yes, I just enjoyed myself out there on the court. I think it was a good choice to give me the wild card, I guess (laughter). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT