WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2009
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. SAFINA/S. Lisicki
  6-7, 6-4, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, Sabine Lisicki. Questions, please. 

 Q. What happened with you in the third set?
 SABINE LISICKI: You mean when the trainer came out? 

 Q. Yes. 
 SABINE LISICKI: You know, my calf was starting to cramp, so I called her because of cramps. 

 Q. Are you disappointed?
 SABINE LISICKI: No, I don't think so. I had a great tournament. I think nobody expected it to happen, including myself. So, you know, of course, I'm sad that I lost today. But I gave it all that I had today and I fought hard. 
 You know, she was more experienced today than me and she was in the second week of a Grand Slam already, so she knew how to deal with it. 

 Q. What was the difference today between the game in Australia and in Wimbledon?
 SABINE LISICKI: I mean, it's one and a half year ago when we played. Back then it already was a tough match. Also three sets. It was a very long match. Today was quite long, as well, and she fought hard. 
 You know, back then was the first round. Now it's the second week. I think she just knew how to handle it physically better than me. 

 Q. When you look at a lot of the top players, does she have the same sort of aura that they have? Are you as aware of her as you are maybe of the Williams sisters or some of the other great champions?
 SABINE LISICKI: Yeah, I mean, she's the No. 1 in the world. She has been in Grand Slams finals, so she has earned the spot in the top rankings. She has worked very hard for it. You know, I respect her a lot. 
 I knew it would be a tough match. You know, I just went out there to fight. I gave it all I had, but she was physically fitter than me today. 

 Q. Was that the difference then: physical fitness?
 SABINE LISICKI: I think so, yeah.

 Q. What have you learnt about yourself in this fortnight and what can you take away for next year's Wimbledon?
 SABINE LISICKI: I think I learned how to play on grass actually. I know that I can play on grass now and that I don't have to be afraid to come back next year and play all the grass court tournaments. I'm actually really looking forward to it, because I really enjoyed my time being here. 
 You know, I think it will be a good year next year, as well. 

 Q. What was the difference between the match yesterday against Wozniacki and the game today with Safina? Was it tougher today?
 SABINE LISICKI: I mean, it's a quarterfinal. Safina is the No. 1 in the world. She can play really well. And, as I said, she was physically, uhm, better than me today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT