FEDCUP FIRST ROUND: GERMANY v USA
February 2, 2008
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How bad was the wind?   
 SABINE LISICKI:  Oh, it was actually not too bad.  In Australia it was much windier.   
  
  Q.  Is this the highlight of your career so far?  And how much confidence did you get from your experience in Australia?   
 SABINE LISICKI:  Well, of course, a lot.  I mean, I've beaten my first top 20 player, and it was my very first Grand Slam, and I qualified.   
 And I beat Safina in the first match, which was a really tough match.  And I beat the second round was really good as well, because I'd never beaten that opponent before.  All of a sudden in Australian Open, I beat her, so I felt really good on the court, and I feel like I'm playing really well right now.   
  
  Q.  Is today the highlight of your career?   
 SABINE LISICKI:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel like you had nothing to lose?  Because all the expectation was that Davenport was in for the U.S.?  Did you have nothing to lose?   
 SABINE LISICKI:  Of course, it's this way as well.  But I mean it's just a match as any other.  So I'm going into a match wanting to win.  I'm not just going on the court to play.  I went on the court and I wanted to win.  I didn't want to go and lose.   
 So I felt pretty confident about my game.  So I thought well, if I play well, I have my chances.   
  
  Q.  Seems like for all the German players, the ghost of Steffi Graf and Becker always seem to hang over.  Yet you weren't even born, I don't believe, when Steffi won her golden slam.  Did you know of her growing up?  What kind of pressure have you felt with her hanging out there?   
 SABINE LISICKI:  When I was growing up, I haven't seen much of Steffi, but, of course in Germany they're talking about Steffi.  But she's such a great champion, she's won so many Grand Slams and Olympic games and everything you could imagine of winning.   
 So I'm playing and it's now ten years later, and it's different.  The tennis has changed and everything has changed.  So I'm playing good now, so, that's good.   
  
  Q.  Did you ever get a chance to meet her?   
 SABINE LISICKI:  No, not yet.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT