BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 19, 2015
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. LISICKI/F. Pennetta
  6‑4, 6‑7, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the three match points you saved there in that third set and how it changed the momentum of the match.   
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, it was obviously a close match throughout the entire match.   She saved a match point that I had in the second set with an unbelievable backhand.   
I found myself in a similar place in the third set having to save two match points in a row, and then a third one.  
But, you know, I just stepped up to the line and believed in my serve.  
   
 Q.   She said that you had some great serves and you didn't really give her a chance on those match points.   Can you talk about what you were trying to do with your serve?  
SABINE LISICKI:   I just believed in my serve.   That's what I did.   (Smiling.)   And it worked.  
   
 Q.   Was the wind a problem with the toss?   Because it seemed like both of you'd toss and then stop.   Was the wind carrying it at all?  
SABINE LISICKI:   It was quite windy, and gusty winds especially, so sometimes it got carried away.  
You know, that's what happens.   You try to adjust, but it doesn't always work.   
   
 Q.   When I looked on the website it said you hadn't won a match here in five years.   
SABINE LISICKI:   Seven, actually.  
   
 Q.   Seven?   
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   So what's changed this year?   What were your expectations coming in?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, I had a tough start to the season losing three close three‑setters in a row.   Even my preseason was good, and we had a feeling we were doing the right things off the court, working hard.   
Somehow it didn't pay off yet, but we kept working.   I have a great team behind me.   They kept telling me that I'm doing the right things and that they believed it will pay off.  
You know, now it's nice to see that it's starting to pay off finally.  
   
 Q.   This is an unlikely place for it to pay off considering your history.   Was it something you changed with how you're playing here to start such a success?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, I think in the past I had problems adjusting to the conditions here.   They are very different also during the day, depending on the time of the day.  
The ball flies during the day way more than in the afternoon, and in the evening it's completely different again when it's dark.  
So I think I wasn't able to adjust well back then.   I think now I also believe more in my game.   Not that I can only play well at Wimbledon, but do the things at different tournaments, too.  
   
 Q.   How much did the energy ramp up toward the end when they let the night session crowd in and the place started to fill up?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, it's always great to play in front of a full crowd.   That's what I train for.   That's the best thing that can happen, you know.   
I love that kind of, you know, crowd and full stadium.   It's just an amazing feeling.  
I think we had some amazing rallies.   One particular one at 5‑All got me fired up, and I just kept going from there.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the next round.   Going against Jelena.  
SABINE LISICKI:   I have nothing to say about Jelena.   Sorry.  
   
 Q.   She likes to play long matches, too.   
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, she does, but she had a short one today.   That's the only thing I saw.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   Do you start entertaining the thought about winning this tournament?   You're so close right now.   
SABINE LISICKI:   I'm just happy that I won today.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   You hadn't played Flavia before.   How much of a feeling‑out process is there when you're playing somebody that you haven't seen across the net?   Does it take like a game or two or three to sort of get a sense of what she's got and what you do to counter it?  
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, of course.   But also knowing that she's won here the last year, you know, that someone feels comfortable, so you're ready for whatever comes.  
I was ready for the match.   I was ready for a fight.   I'm very happy how it ended.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT