WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2014
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/S. Lisicki
  6/4, 6/0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Got off to a really good start today and then turned the other way quickly.   What changed do you think?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, first I think she played amazingly.   In the end of the day, she's No.3 in the world.   Well, she was very close to winning the French Open just a few weeks ago. 
So she really played well. 

Q.   Was there anything about your game today that you were disappointed in that you weren't able to execute?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, obviously a few easy mistakes that I shouldn't have made.   Played the point out well and then didn't finish it off well. 
That's definitely something that I can do better. 

Q.   When a game starts running away from you like that, is it difficult to change the direction of the game?
SABINE LISICKI:   I think it always is.   When the momentum goes one way and a player like Simona gets the confidence, then she goes even more for the lines. 
She was hitting the corners of the court, so it was getting more and more difficult to turn it around. 
So I tried everything that I could today, but she was better. 

Q.   Was your injury giving you any problem?
SABINE LISICKI:   I was fine. 

Q.   This is one of your better results of the year making quarters here.   Not as good as last year, but overall are you happy with this result?
SABINE LISICKI:   Definitely.   You know, after the last five months, you know, it was good to come back and finally win four matches in a row at the tournament that I love so much, too, just be able to turn it around again. 
It's something that's important, and I think it's something that will help me the next few weeks.   The last not only two weeks here, but after Paris I really started to do whatever I could again to be able to play well again. 
You know, I was just more free again.   So that's good. 

Q.   With all this talk about the analysis of your game, has the information that IBM has been providing this year, was that of any help to you in analyzing your game?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, my coach did that, you know, so I didn't do much, especially in the last few days.   I had to play back‑to‑back to back.   I didn't have much time.   I was more focusing on the recovery.   Their part was to use the stats. 

Q.   Did he help you to adjust your game at all based on that?
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, of course.   Yeah, there are always little things, yeah.

Q.   What are you looking forward to for the rest of the season? 
SABINE LISICKI:   Few days off first (laughter).   I think the last three, four weeks I just had two days off in total, so... 
So a few days off, and then I'll start hitting on the hard courts again.   That's one thing that I want to improve and maybe change, as well, is to transfer my game to the hard court.   Because I'm playing so well here and I have a good game, but I think I can play better than I had on hard courts. 
So, you know, I think that will be the next challenge to, you know, take it positively from here but onto the hard court.   We'll see what we can do there. 
But I'm looking forward to that. 

Q.   What do you think it is that you need to do or change to get that success?
SABINE LISICKI:   Maybe not so much actually.   I always thought that I have to change so much, but in the end of the day, good serves are good on any surface.   Being calm to play out the point.   You know, that's what I am here, and I think I can do that on other surfaces, as well. 

Q.   Can you say one thing about Halep's game and what makes her so difficult to play against?
SABINE LISICKI:   Obviously she had a tremendous year, 12 months, I would say.   When a player wins so many matches, gains so much confidence into shots and long rallies and be able to use the entire court, I think that's working well for her right now. 
I think confidence is the biggest thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT