WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2014
Sabine Lisicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/Y. Shvedova
  6/3, 3/6, 6/4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You have the most heartwarming smile of all the tennis players. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Thank you. 

Q.   Where does it come from?   I don't see your father ever smiling when you're playing. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Oh, no?   C'mon, don't be so harsh. 
It comes from within.   I love what I do.   I love playing tennis.   I feel very fortunate to have my hobby as a job. 
So the crowd helps me to bring out the smile as well.

Q.   You had some trouble during that match; called a medical timeout at breakpoint.   Talk us through that period of time. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, the timing was very unfortunate.   I hit a ball before, and it just went into my back.   I tried to keep going.   I played a few points but I wasn't able to lift my arm. 
I mean, it was obvious.   I was serving, what, 50 miles an hour or something.   I don't remember if I ever served that slow in my life before. 
So, yeah, that's why I had to call the trainer.   I just couldn't lift my arm anymore. 

Q.   Darren Cahill has said if you call a medical timeout in the middle of a game you should forfeit that game. 
SABINE LISICKI:   What does that mean? 

Q.   You should give it up, not be able to win that game.   Curious timing to take a medical timeout.   Do you think there was any way you could finish the game before you took your medical timeout?
SABINE LISICKI:   No.   As I said before, the timing was very unfortunate.   But I tried to play a few more points.   That's what I did.   I played already a few more points. 
But the game was going back and forth the whole time.   I called it before already, for the trainer, and then I played a few more points and I just wasn't able to. 
I think you know how I serve.   That was not nearly, you know, what I could do.   I just couldn't lift my arm, so I had to do it.

Q.   How is the arm now?
SABINE LISICKI:   I have to go and do some treatment afterwards.   I hope that it's only blocked, but I don't know.   It's from the thoracic spine, I think.   We'll see what the physios can do. 

Q.   What can you tell me about your next game against Simona?
SABINE LISICKI:   To be honest, I didn't think about it yet.   Just got off the court.   We will reassess that in the evening. 

Q.   Did your opponent say anything to you during the timeout period?   Was she getting frustrated?
SABINE LISICKI:   I didn't see it.   I think you had a better view on that than me.

Q.   She didn't want to initially come to her chair.   She looked a little curious why on breakpoint the medical timeout occurred.   Did she say anything to you or did you say, Sorry, I have to take the timeout?
SABINE LISICKI:   No.   I have a huge respect for her.   We played a tight match before.   You know, I feel lucky that I got away with it, with serving 60 miles an hour serves.   I think it was very visible that, you know, I just couldn't do differently. 
I was trying to get help.   As I said before, I tried it for a few points already.   I called the trainer before.   So that's how it ended up being. 

Q.   Did you think about waiting just the one point?   There was a changeover one point away. 
SABINE LISICKI:   The previous points as well.   I had a game point several times. 
I did wait a few points, yeah. 

Q.   Did you think about just the one more point where there would be a natural break in the set?
SABINE LISICKI:   I did before.   No.   The game was going on, back and forth, back and forth. 

Q.   You served 20 double‑faults.   Was it a problem throughout the whole match, would you say?   So for the second set there was some erratic serving.   Was it then that the shoulder was hurting, or was that different to the injury?
SABINE LISICKI:   No, it happened in that game.   It was one shot that I hit that just went into it.   That's when I couldn't lift my arm. 
So before I felt something was wrong, as I said, hoping that it's blocked, only blocked.   But, you know, it was in that particular game where it went quite down. 

Q.   Are you going to be all right for tomorrow?
SABINE LISICKI:   I hope so.   I'll do everything I can. 

Q.   How is it feeling now?
SABINE LISICKI:   I'll go and see the doctor and physio and hope they'll be able to do some miracles. 

Q.   This is your fifth time in the quarterfinals in a row.   You obviously like the place. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Yes, I do. 

Q.   Last year was very close.   Any sort of sense of wanting to amend that and finally go all the way?
SABINE LISICKI:   Yeah, I think that also helped me today, to be honest, to just push it through.   I was fighting with all my heart.   I couldn't really serve.   I was just digging in there, fighting for every single point. 
You know, I love this place so much.   The crowd gave me such a big support again.   I think that really helps in those moments. 

Q.   Do you need massage and physiotherapy on your shoulder?
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, I'll go and see the doctor and he'll decide what we'll have to do. 

Q.   I see that Angelique Kerber is up 2‑Love in the third against Maria Sharapova.   I want to know whether or not you talk with your fellow compatriots about how to take on your opponents, and have you given her any advice on how to deal with Maria?
SABINE LISICKI:   That's what we have the teams for.   Our coaches usually help us because they know us the best.   That's what usually happens. 
But we sometimes go‑‑ especially when you don't know an opponent, then we try to help each other out if the other girl knows her, yeah. 

Q.   There's been some talk ‑ not just with this match, but other matches as well ‑ that there should be a revisitation of the medical timeout rule, that it shouldn't be mid‑game medical timeouts.   Do you have an opinion on that one way or the other?
SABINE LISICKI:   To be honest, no, because it's the first time I had to use it that way.   To be honest, no, I don't.   I never thought about it. 

Q.   You said the serve was a problem irrespective of the injury.   Is that something you'll have to work on?   Twenty double‑faults. 
SABINE LISICKI:   I think that's the first time in my life that happened. 

Q.   Usually it's such a potent weapon. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Exactly.   So you saw that yesterday. 
As I said before, I'll go to see the doctors and physiotherapists and hope they'll be able to do some miracles for tomorrow's match.

Q.   Obviously you were in a lot of pain, and your explanation is completely legitimate.   What would you say to people who would say it was a tactical timeout?   You were about to lose the game. 
SABINE LISICKI:   Well, I cannot change their opinion.   I just know honest to myself that that hasn't been the case because I really tried to play several more points.   That's what I tried. 
As I said, I have a big respect for my opponent.   It's the first time that I had to do it ever.   That's the only thing I can say. 

Q.   What do you think we'll see first:   a German singles champion at Wimbledon or Germany winning the football World Cup?
SABINE LISICKI:   Why not both at the same year?   Wouldn't that be good? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT