NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 31, 1995
Terry Collins
Andre Owens
Scott Pierce
Bryant Reeves
Randy Rutherford
Eddie Sutton
James White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Can you tell us what happened on the breaking of the backboard?
 
BRYANT REEVES:  It was just a little drill that we do everyday in practice.  One of the coaches tosses the ball above the boards and you go get it and dunk it in.  I don't know what  happened, it just went out of my hand, and the rest of history. 
 

Q.  Do you do that all the time?  Do you break a lot of backboards in the course of a season?
 
BRYANT REEVES:  No, that's the 4th one that I've broke. 
 

Q.  This season?
 
BRYANT REEVES:  Not this season.  I broke one when I was with the team USA, that traveled in Europe between my sophomore and junior year.  And I broke two in practice last year.  This was the first one this year. 
 

Q.  Was the team USA in this country or --
 
BRYANT REEVES:  It was in Italy. 
 

Q.  What did they think?
 
BRYANT REEVES:  I don't know, something that they'd never seen.  It was in practice, it wasn't in a game. 
 

Q.  Paul Crane with CNN and I'd love to ask Andre, Randy and Bryant to answer this.  And how is important is tempo going to be in the game against UCLA?  What do you plan to do to control that, specifically, and slowing down Tyus Edney, specifically?
 
ANDRE OWENS:  First of all, I think that's the key to their fast game is Tyus Edney, he's a great point guard, he  pushes the ball very well in transition.  That's the first thing we're going to do is we're going to try not to allow him to push the ball down the floor as well as he's used to doing. And second of all, we're going to get back on defense, we're going to send our guys who's assigned to go to the offense I have boards, and those are assigned to get back in transition defense to guard the ball and the basic.  And the rest of it is just going to have to fall in place for us. 
 
RANDY RUTHERFORD:  We feel that Andre is a pretty good point guard, also, we'll probably make sure that we make Andre pick him up a little farther on the court, get a head full of steam coming down.  It's going to be up to the guards for get back, defense transition, something we work everyday in practice, and every game.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT