DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 20, 2011
Liezel Huber
Maria Jose Martinez Sanchez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 HUBER-MARTINEZ-SANCHEZ/Peschke-Srebotnik
  7-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Liezel, fourth title in Dubai. It's a success. First three times was with Cara, and now with Maria. What's the success?   
 LIEZEL HUBER: Well, if you told me a year ago that I would be here winning with a different partner, I would tell you you're kidding me, because I had such a long career with Cara. This is just how things worked out.   
 I've grown over the last year. I've played with 11 different partners last year. You know, I got older also. So many, many different obstacles, I guess. But the main thing is truly I believed in my partner this week. She was really sick to start out the week. We've played one time before. Just our games mesh, you know, really well.   
 I don't know if you realize, but I actually play on the other side of the court than I normally play, so it's really exciting. It's almost like I'm 21 again and I'm really enjoying playing. I guess the surface suits me. I came here like four days before the tournament started, and I really train the hard.  
 So this is the tournament you want to win. This is a big tournament and this is a lot of points here. It's a beautiful trophy. So I am so happy.  
  
  Q. You're not getting tired of the trophy yet?   
 LIEZEL HUBER: Oh, no, my husband says we only have space for one more in the house. They're very big, and you need a lot of the silver stuff to clean it. You have one as well from last year.  
 MARIA JOSE MARTINEZ SANCHEZ: Yeah, from last year.  
 LIEZEL HUBER: Coming into this week I said to Maria, We're going to defend your points. It's a lot of points coming off potentially -- I mean, her ranking could drop from 12 to 16, so not very much. I look at it and I thought, You know what, I owe that to my partner to defend her points.   
 Every match we'd go on the court and I would say, We're going to defend your points. I didn't tell her, you know, I have semifinal points also coming off. But we defended her points?  
  
  Q. Is it going to be a more permanent partnership for this season?  
 LIEZEL HUBER: We don't know. We haven't spoken about it. Pretty much this just was a one-off chance. We'll see how it goes.  
  
  Q. How about you?   
 MARIA JOSE MARTINEZ SANCHEZ: Well, I feel really good playing with Liezel. It is the second time. We are really happy because we won the tournament, I defend my title, and I feel great on the court.  
  
  Q. You don't have any problem with the trophies here?  
 MARIA JOSE MARTINEZ SANCHEZ: No, I don't have any problem. I have a lot space at home (laughing.)   
 LIEZEL HUBER: What she was neglecting to say is she was in hospital here in the beginning of the week. I didn't know that, but somebody came to me. They thought potentially pneumonia, but it was just bronchitis.   
 I was thinking, Oh, my gosh, she won't be able to play. But it's okay. That first round kind of got delayed, and she played better than me, so...  
  
  Q. So would you talk about your partnership for the rest of the season now?  
 LIEZEL HUBER: What do you think? I don't know, I get to trouble all the time. (Laughing.) You know, when my partner -- when you talk about it you get in trouble, and if you don't talk about it...  
 We're a good partnership. Right now I'm in a partnership. She's potentially in a partnership. We're sort of -- it's kind of the beginning of the year, so, you know, who knows? Next tournament we are not playing together. Who knows.   
  
  Q. In Doha?  
 LIEZEL HUBER: Yeah. I'm playing with Petrova, and she's playing with Niculescu. So I hope we don't play each other in the first round.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT