NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 20, 2018
Cody Bellinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Los Angeles - 5, Milwaukee - 1   
 Q.  Congratulations.  You guys made it to the World Series last year.  You worked all season, through ups and downs to get back to this point and I know you're going to celebrate tonight.  But is there also sort of a sense that maybe your season is kind of just beginning because you have that last up to make?  
CODY BELLINGER: Definitely.  We know how hard it is to make the World Series; to do it two years in a row is really special.  I know how lucky I am to be a part of it two years in a row.   
Like you said, we've got a tough series against the Red Sox that's coming up.  But we're going to enjoy this right now and get our mind turned around tomorrow.   
 Q.  Because you had been there before, was there maybe a calmness after last night to be able to keep the momentum in check for what the Brewers had done?  
CODY BELLINGER: I think so.  We definitely are going to tip our cap to the Brewers.  They were a great team.  Obviously they put up a really tough fight.  Like I said, we've been there, we've done that.  We had Buehler on the mound today who has nasty stuff, who loves the big game.  Once we gave him the lead we really liked our chances.   
 Q.  What was your vantage point on that Taylor catch?  
CODY BELLINGER: That was the catch of the year.  I don't know what would happen if he doesn't make that catch.  It would have been a tie game, who knows.  That was an unbelievable catch.  And it was really cool to see it firsthand, right there.   
 Q.  There's a moment before you guys struck tonight when Manny bunts 3-2, which I think it's the first 3-2 bunt for a base hit since 2014.  He handled the boos last night and maybe got you started tonight with that play.  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah, I know he got quick pitched so he didn't have an opportunity to get a swing off.  And it was unbelievable how he actually got the bunt down and to think about getting the bunt down.  Like I said, it was definitely a momentum changer once we saw that go down.   
 Q.  So for you what was the key to going from your scuffles earlier in the postseason in which you said you didn't have results but you were feeling pretty good up there to sitting up there behind that trophy right now?  
CODY BELLINGER: It feels unbelievable.  Like I said, all postseason I felt fairly good.  I wasn't seeing any results.  And luckily for me I've, got a lot of veterans on this team.  They said stick with the process and the results will come.  And that's exactly what I did and it showed.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT