NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 13, 2018
Justin Turner
Cody Bellinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Los Angeles - 4, Milwaukee - 3   
 Q.  Justin, what is it about this time of year that you think brings the best out of you?  
JUSTIN TURNER: Just opportunities.  C.T. had a hell of an at-bat battling, finding a way on base to start the inning off, and looking for something to get in the air there, and got a changeup that I didn't miss.  So that felt good.   
 Q.  Justin, you haven't had many bad nights lately, but you did have one yesterday.  I'm just curious, what's kind of your process for moving on from those?  Do you just watch a bunch of videos of your at-bats.  Are you able to forget it quickly?  Does it kind of sit with you?  How were you able to turn the page going into today?  
JUSTIN TURNER: Yeah, I think it's well documented that was probably the worst game of my career offensively.  But I think you just shrug it off to be about baseball.  We've got to go to sleep and show up and do it again today.   
Yeah, obviously I wasn't feeling good about myself last night and wasn't happy with the results, but like I said, today was a new day and another chance to go out and win a ballgame.   
 Q.  Justin, were you surprised at all to see Jeffress come back out for the 8th after that long 7th?  
JUSTIN TURNER: I'm not surprised by anything these guys do.  They obviously like their bullpen and they trust their bullpen, and they want their bullpen in the game as much as they can.  I did see that Knebel was in the bullpen warming up, but I don't know if he was up in time or ready.  So I got ready to face Jeffress.   
 Q.  Cody, Dave Roberts was just in here and we were asking about Justin, and he said in a lot of ways, he's the face of our club, he's the glue for our club is what he said.  How do you see the guy to your right serve in a role and what kind of example does he give for the rest of guys?  
CODY BELLINGER: I think it's just the everyday every at-bat, professional hitter.  And it's fun to watch from the dugout every day.  Like he said, you don't see many days like yesterday, and for him to come out and shrug it off and do that today is what makes him a professional hitter and something us young guys can kind of strive for.   
 Q.  Cody, first hit for you, at what point did you really start to feel the pressure to snap starting to hold you back?  
CODY BELLINGER: I think there's always pressure in the playoffs to perform and, obviously, when you're not performing, it's tough.  But yesterday I felt as good as I have in a long time, no results.  I felt good in LA and Atlanta and no results.  And it's frustrating, but at the same time, I've got the support of the teammates that told me to keep going that have been there, that have struggled.  And that kind of helps me understand that it's a hard game.   
And I know that, but it's hard to snap out of it sometimes.  But I felt good yesterday and it was nice to get a hit today.   
 Q.  Cody, Matt was talking about how your relationship has developed over the course of this year, and he feels he can tell you things other people can't.  How has that relationship sort of developed over the course of this year and how has he sort of served as someone who can help you when you're in some of these skids?  
CODY BELLINGER: It's a respect thing.  He's been there in LA.  He's done it in LA.  He's been a really, really good player for a long time, and he's been great to me off the field, too, in the clubhouse.  And like I said, just kind of watching these older guys play every day, I've been learning a lot this year.  It's been really nice to, like I said, have professional guys every single day to watch.   
 Q.  Justin, it's such a deep roster that you guys have, obviously, and everybody, really except you and Manny, kind of shift in or out or change positions.  What kind of pressure does that put on you to know that everybody else can mix and match, but you are going to be in there every game, all game long?  
JUSTIN TURNER: I mean, I think everyone wants to be there every game all game long, and that just speaks to the depth that our team has.  I'm glad I get the opportunity to be out there every day, and I know Cody wants to be out there every day, whether it's a righty or a lefty.   
But we have a roster full of guys that are more than capable of doing that.  It's just kind of a blessing and a curse that we have that we have so much depth and we can mix and match.  And I think I talked about it earlier tonight, I think our guys do an incredible job of staying ready and being able to come into games in the middle of the game prepared, get big hits like Cody did tonight.  That's something that's not easy to ask players to do, and we ask a lot of guys to do it.   
And they've been tremendous all September and through the playoffs of being ready and accepting it and being able to contribute every night.   
 Q.  For both of you, Justin's home run was game changing, series changing at this point.  Can you kind of just take us through what both of you guys were thinking when that ball went out?  
CODY BELLINGER: I know from the dugout we were just trying to keep the chain moving.  C.T. had a great at-bat against a really tough pitcher, and we liked our chances with J.T. coming up.  Like I said, we just wanted to keep putting pressure on those guys, and we did a great job doing that today.   
JUSTIN TURNER: Yeah, like I said, I was just trying to elevate, get something in the air.  I know Muncy is on deck behind me with only righties down there, and he's obviously done some incredible things this year.  So last thing I want to do is put a ball on the ground.   
So I was just trying to get something up, and as soon as I hit it, it felt good.  I knew it was a homer, and it's cool to run around the bases and see all your teammates going crazy, jumping up and down waiting for you.  That's pretty cool.   
 Q.  It seems like almost like last year where you and C.T. were kind of feeding off of each other.  Would you say that that kind of happened tonight when you were watching him in that at-bat and you kind of carried the momentum into your at-bat?  
JUSTIN TURNER: Yeah.  C.T. is -- talk about professional hitters.  He's been incredible for us, both last year and this year as well.  I think if you ask him, things didn't probably go as good as he would have wanted for him this year, but when the lights turn on, he's a gamer, he's ready to go; he takes good at-bats.  You saw last night in the ninth inning with the triple, finding ways to get on base, playing defense, moving all over the place.  He can play five, six positions.  Just the value that he brings to our team, the flexibility, the quality of at-bats is incredible.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT