NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 3, 2018
Cody Bellinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Cody, this year entering the playoff has obviously been a very different process than it was for you last year, especially team-wise.  You guys didn't know you would be the home team in this series until Monday.  But now that you're here and you're preparing, is it starting to feel like a familiar vibe to you?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah, it is.  I think the biggest thing for us was to get into the playoffs.  It was kind of different this year between the past years.  We had to grind to get into the playoffs and I think that's good for us, so we got a good thing going right now and we're going to try and keep that going.   
 Q.  Cody, with the vast amount of playoff experience this roster has, for you, what do you take out of last year that you can apply to live up to your shirt that says October Ready?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah.  We got everyone on the roster that's been to -- in the playoffs now.  I think last year we had a lot of young guys, first-time experience in the playoffs.  We all still performed and we all still made the World Series, obviously, but I think having that experience of last year is definitely going to benefit us this year.   
 Q.  Puig said that they actually preferred it this way to have more of a fight and claw need to get into the postseason than the past when you guys have clinched it by several games.  What do you think, the adversity that you guys have faced this year, how will that translate to then helping you in this postseason?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah.  Like I said, it was a grind to get into the playoffs this year.  Colorado kept it close all year.  Arizona kept it close all year.  In the past we had 10 games plus lead every time.  So we were kind of cruising into September and October and this year we had to win.  And I think that's good for us.  Like I said, I think we got hot at the right time.  We're hot right now and hopefully we keep that going into the Series.   
 Q.  Cody, what did you learn from I guess the World Series experience last year, how the Astros approached you and pitched to you that you'll be able to apply in this postseason?  
CODY BELLINGER: I think like I said, experience is huge.  Last year obviously was my first time in the World Series, first time in the playoffs as well as some of my other teammates.  So I think the stage won't be too big this year.  I think we all know what to expect coming in.  And like I said, I'm going to do what I can to hopefully treat it like a regular season game and do what I can any way to help this team win.   
 Q.  For the last few weeks Dave has really managed you guys in a lot of platoon situations, a lot of matchup situations preparing seemingly for the postseason.  How do you think that philosophy will help you going into these games?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah.  I don't really know what we're going to do in the playoffs, if we're going to keep it the same.  I guess that's for us to find out.  But whatever case it is, there's no excuse, you gotta go out and perform in any situation that you're in, whether you're coming off the bench or starting.   
You gotta play for 25 guys, not just yourself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT