NL DIVISION SERIES: DIAMONDBACKS VS DODGERS
October 9, 2017
Cody Bellinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Dodgers - 3, Diamondbacks - 1   
 Q.  Cody, what did Dave say to you after that second at-bat, after the one-pitch swing and fly-out?  What did he say to you after that?  What kind of adjustment did you have to make from your first two at-bats before the home run?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah, I was frustrated at myself not getting the job done.  He kind of pulled me aside and said:  Listen, you picked us up all year.  We'll get you right here.  Next at-bat, don't try to do too much.   
So I kind of took that and ran with it.   
 Q.  Then a year ago you're at the Arizona Fall League, and today to hit the home run, and I think there were even some boos for you at the end from your hometown crowd.  I guess what was the overall feeling of not only the season but to do that here and get that reception?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah, this whole season has been crazy.  Trying to enjoy it as much as I can.  I'm going to enjoy this with the team and my family.  Yeah, it was really cool coming back here to Chase Field.  Played here in high school.  Went to a lot of games as a kid.  So to celebrate here on the Dodgers is pretty special.   
 Q.  How do you explain your manager telling you to not worry, don't try to do too much, and then you go out and hit a home run?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah, it speaks volumes to Dave Roberts, who is phenomenal at communication.  If he has something on his mind, he's going to tell you whether it's good or bad, and at the end of the day he's only there to help you.   
 Q.  As you're navigating that family, all the families in the hallway, do you have any recollection of being that little kid in 2002 when your dad was with the Angels?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah, with the Angels, and with the Yankees.  I remember going in the parades through downtown New York, and seeing those videos are pretty crazy.   
So hopefully we can get one here in L.A. and experience that for myself.   
 Q.  I'm sorry, we kind of came in last.  Talk about the home run in your hometown?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah, that was special.  The whole, you know, first two games were throwing away, pitching to my aggressiveness.  I was running for too much.  And Dave called me over and said:  Take the pressure off yourself.  Stay within yourself.  And just kind of sat on a pitch and tried to put the barrel on it.   
 Q.  Was that a special moment for you, though?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah, it was.  I had a lot of friends and family in the stands.   
 Q.  What was going through your mind when you actually started circling the bases on that?  
CODY BELLINGER: I was just glad it gave us the lead.  Gave us some cushion for Yu, who was pitching really well tonight.  Like I said, to give this team the cushion is the biggest thing for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT