COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2016
Bjorn Akesson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on the 66?  
BJÖRN ÅKESSON: It feels really good.  I changed my grip a little bit actually this morning on the driving range, and it worked out really good today.  So I would say that's the key.  And I putted well the front nine.  I had lots of chances the back nine, as well, but missed many of them.  Been really happy with my game and how I played today.   
 Q.  That was pretty special, wasn't it, to record six birdies on your way out in windy conditions.  
BJÖRN ÅKESSON: Yeah, four straight birdies, and the fourth birdie on the par 3 there, hole No. 13, it's a good one.  4-iron up to the pin and then holed the putt.  Had a good start and then I just got the confidence and played really well.   
 Q.  Are you somebody that will make this last-minute change all that often, because it seems a strange thing to do, just to make the change before you go out.  
BJÖRN ÅKESSON: Yeah, but it's just a small thing to open up my clubface a little bit, and a little bit weaker grip that I've had all my life.  It's nothing new.  It's just that I tend to, when you're competing many weeks, you get small changes in the swing and whatever, so I just got back to normal I guess.   
 Q.  You were going to work with a new putter and make sure that was drilled into perfection; was that working for you?  
BJÖRN ÅKESSON: Yeah, it's working.  It's working really good and I'm rolling the ball well.  So that was a good change.   
 Q.  Are you excited about being here in Qatar and playing this standard of golf?  
BJÖRN ÅKESSON: Absolutely.  The golf course is fantastic and I love the back nine.  It's got so much good holes, and the finishing three holes is amazing, 16, 17 and 18.  Love the golf course.   
 Q.  Essentially we are at the start of 2016, so are you a player that has resolutions and targets for a year ahead?  
BJÖRN ÅKESSON: Absolutely.  Feels like I'm developing my game all the time, and so yeah, look bright at the future.   
 Q.  Can you share any of those targets?  
BJÖRN ÅKESSON: No, not really.  I'm trying to focus on every tournament and every shot.  So I try not to see too far ahead actually.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT