FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 27, 2013
Brad Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Another rookie near the top of the leaderboard heading into the fourth round.   Are you happy with your play so far today?   
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, I think so.   I got away with a lot early on in the round.   I made some great up‑and‑downs, chipped in on 9 after hitting three horrible shots and almost birdied.   So got a little away from me on the back nine a little bit, but brought it back for birdie on 18.   
    I'm pretty happy.   I've never played in this atmosphere before especially in front of Tiger.   So I think I handled it well.   It was fun, and I've got to do it over again.  
   
 Q.   If this was a normal fourth round, you'd be paired up with Tiger.   Advantage, disadvantage, or you don't care either way that your grouping will remain the same?   
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Out of curiosity it would have been nice.   But I think it will benefit me playing in front of him to be honest having, like I said, not done it before.   We've got to start some time.   But, obviously, it's not going to be today, and I'll live with that, it's okay.  
   
 Q.   How much fun is it to be contention?  
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Lots of fun.   I told my caddy on 17, one guy just barely missed, crowd went nuts and it was just so much fun.   
    I think I handled it okay today.   I played okay.   Obviously, probably seven or eight more holes to go today, and, hopefully, I can straighten up the driver a little bit, because I'm struggling with that a little bit.  
   
 Q.   How about chasing Tiger right now?   
    BRAD FRITSCH:   It would be a really interesting tournament if he wasn't here in terms of the scoring (laughing).   But, I've just got to go out and play how I can play.   I go point A to point B, don't try to do too much on each shot.   If the putts fall, great.   If they don't, I'm still having a great tournament.   So we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   How aware are you, obviously, he's right behind you?  
    BRAD FRITSCH:   It seems like every time he has a wedge, he almost holes it based on the reaction of the crowd.   But there is a little more traffic directing going on than I'm used to.   But, for the most part, the crowds are really good today.   Stayed in the right spots, and it was really good.   It was a lot of fun, like I said.   It's a fun experience.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT