FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 26, 2013
Brad Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How does this affect you playing with the Phoenix next week? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Well, I was going to have to Monday qualify for next week if I didn't Top 10.   So now I'm pretty sure I definitely have to Top 10 in order to get in because I don't see myself making the Monday qualifier at this point if we're not going to play today.   I don't see us finishing tomorrow, so I'll be here on Monday.   So, you know, it's definitely an adjustment I have to make.

Q.   And this tournament is certainly important enough for you to stay?
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Oh, yeah.   Yeah, I mean, you can't look ahead.   You have to focus on this one.   But, yeah, it's an important two days for me.   It could set up the rest of the year. 
    But like I was saying earlier, it can, if I play well, great.   If I don't play well, then I can learn from it.   I'm still learning out here.   It's only my third event as a member, so there is a lot that I can learn. 
    Obviously, there is going to be some crowds behind me tomorrow in Tiger's group.   I've always heard that playing with or around him is kind of a new experience.   So I've kind of got to get used to that and handle it well.

Q.   Are you looking forward to that? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Oh, yeah, absolutely.   That's why we play, right?   I mean, he's the best there's been, so you want to challenge yourself.   Again, you're not just playing against him.   You're playing against all the guys who are playing well. 
    Yeah, you've just got to go out there and take care of your own.

Q.   Weather‑wise not a lot of experience on the west coast with the fog? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Not a ton.   It rolled in and out so many times today, I can't count and each time was kind of a surprise.   But it seems to be that there are guys out here who are kind of used to it, and they're not, you know, anticipating playing today or they weren't anticipating playing today when it started like it did. 
    It's been an interesting day.   I'm not quite used to this, so it's been a big waiting game today.

Q.   You mentioned it's unusual to see the X‑number of thousand people out here all watching you do nothing. 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, it's been an interesting experience.   They're just watching us hanging out and play weird games on the putting green and do all kinds of weird stuff.   So I feel bad for them, you know?   A lot of them have been here since early morning.   So they're here to see us play.   Hopefully, we can fit in a lot of golf tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT