FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 25, 2013
Brad Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice round you had there.   Your caddy said you only missed one green the whole day. 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, and I made it from off the green when I missed the green.   So, yeah, I hit it really well from the fairway or the light cuts of the rough.   I mean, my driving stats probably weren't great, but I think I hit it in about four or five first cuts, so it was fine. 
    Greens are way more receptive, obviously, than yesterday, so that helps.

Q.   Great way to finish.   You went birdie‑birdie, right? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, yeah, it is.   I made it from off the green on 8, and I was thinking I only made par on the three par‑5s, today, so it would be nice to get one.   Fortunately hit it in the grips, so nice way to end.

Q.   Three weeks in a row you've made the cut.   That's what your caddy was saying. 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah.

Q.   It's a nice way to start the season, isn't it? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, it is.   They all say coming out of Q‑school or Web.com, the West Coast Swing is important to get position for going forward.   So it's nice to make some money, but got myself out there farther this week than I have the last couple, so we'll see what happens.

Q.   What's the goal for the weekend knowing who is number one or at number one right now?   Do you keep track of what he's doing or you play your own game?
    BRAD FRITSCH:   I try to play my own game, but, you know, just looking at leaderboards, can you tell what he does.   Not looking at him to figure anything out, but just interested to see what anybody's doing. 
    You have a number kind of in mind at the end of the week that you want to get to, and if you can do that, then, you know, great.

Q.   Want to share what that number is? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Well, I was telling Jeff coming down the fairway, don't worry about what anyone else is doing.   If we get to 16‑under par, that's pretty good for four days.   If it happens to be good enough, fine.   If not, oh, well.

Q.   What was the weather like in the middle of your round?   It kind of got crazy. 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   It got pretty bad the last maybe five holes.   It wasn't too for bad most of the day, but the last five holes got a little bit trying.   And there were some tough tee shots.   Like 4, 5, 7 are real tough.   So I hit one off the world on 7, but ended up perfect.   So it just ends up that way. 
    It was tough to keep yourself between the lines type thing, and be not try to do too much.

Q.   Was it sticky around the greens? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Oh, for sure.   Yeah, yeah, I jacked a few back today, and I never do that.   So, you're coming in with a full wedge somewhere, it's tough to control it, so you best kind of knock it down and take the one bounce and stop.   So that was kind of our strategy for the most part. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT