WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2014
Brad Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I think it was 14, that was by ShotLink said 54 feet.   I think you went to drive it there, got it on the green.   That was a great birdie.  
BRAD FRITSCH:   The ball jumped from the rough.   I thought it might be over the green.   Hung my head.   My caddy reads all my putts for me.   He came up with said dead straight in the hole, basically straight.   Went right in.   Really good speed.   That's a bonus right there.  
   
 Q.   I've been watching your caddy.   He bounces around the hole.   How long have you guys been working together?   What is name?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Jeff Scott.   He started for me in 2012 in Valdosta.   He was actually is the assistant pro at the club that I'm a member at.   So, we've known each other for a long time.   Reads all my putts.   If you don't tell anyone he's the best green reader out here.   I need to keep him.  
   
 Q.   Finally, you know, tomorrow is going to be a shoot-out.  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, absolutely.   18, 19, 20 tomorrow, probably.   Still in.   I'm just going to focus on not making mistakes, hitting good shots.   You'll have a bunch of wedges out here so you have to pick your spots and make some putts.  
   
 Q.   Not quite as good as 63 on Friday but still pretty good, 65.   You hit only 8 fairways.   How were you able to get that good number missing those fairways out there?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Just being patient from the shots from the rough.   Out here you can get yourself in some really bad spots.   Try to hit it into an uphill putt somewhere on the green.   It's not easy out here with the greens, you know, rolling the way that they do.   They're perfect but the humps and bumps on it make it tough.   Did a good job of kind of keeping it playable.  
   
 Q.   You came here trying to get inside the 125.   Now you got a chance to win.   What have you found at Greensboro this week?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   I've been playing well down the stretch here.   I haven't gotten into events previously in the year.   I've been in the Canadian Open was good, John Deere was good.   Can't tell you specifically what I found but I just think staying patient and not freaking out over a bogey, not freaking out over a missed fairway and not getting too aggressive.   I think just that, really.  
   
 Q.   Fine thing considering the opportunity in front of you tomorrow and the position you're in, how do you manage the emotions?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Right now I'm concerned with whether my dad won the club championship today because he's never won.   
   
 Q.   Where is this happen happening?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Up in Ottawa.   I kind of kept my mind on it.   I hope he did win.   Tomorrow, you know, I have no idea what's going to happen.   Can't tell you.   I'm going to try my best.   That's what I tell my mom and dad every time, try my best.   Whatever happens, happens.  
   
 Q.   What's your dad's name and country club?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Brian and the Carlton Yacht and Golf Club.  
   
 Q.   Fine round of 65 today, highlighted by an eagle on hole No. 8.   What was working well for you today?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Being patient.   I kept kind of, you know, in the present as they say and not -- and not focused on the leaderboard or anything.   The scores are out here.   You can tell what the guys are shooting, the scores.   Being patient.   You have wedges.   Make some putts.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned patience.   Sitting at 163 in the FedExCup list now you don't have a whole lot of time for patience.   What's going to be your mindset for tomorrow and do you look at the leaderboard to see where you are in relation to the FedExCup standings?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   I can't focus on that.   I try my best every shot and whatever happens will happen tomorrow.   You can't control, you know, what other guys are going to do tomorrow.   I got to go do what I've been doing last two days.  
   
 Q.   5-under today, currently in the lead.   Got to feel really good about what happened today.  
BRAD FRITSCH:   It's better than being in 2nd or 3rd.   You know, I haven't been in this position before and so I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow but playing well and there's no reason why I can't go out and play well tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little about having the lead and sleeping on the lead possibly, talk a little about what goes through your mind in that situation.  
BRAD FRITSCH:   I couldn't tell you, I've never done it before out here.   I'm sure I'll sleep fine and again, just try my best tomorrow.   So many guys are bunched up.   Lot of low scores out here.  
   
 Q.   Brandt, Webb were both saying it's going to take 5, 6, maybe even 7-under to win this thing tomorrow.   How exciting is that to know you're going to have to go out and post a number?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   I'd rather shoot even par and win but, you know, I think the scores will lend itself to a lot of birdies, lot of wedges out here and so I'm wedging it well.   Got to hit it in the fairway.   That's the defense of this course, is the rough and you know, just keep staying patient because you never know when you're going to run-off, 2, 3, 4 in a row.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you exceeded your expectations at all?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   I try not to have expectations but I know I was playing well.   I would have taken the lead if you told me I would be in the lead.   It's too many good players out here to kind of sleep on the 3rd Round.   Focus on tomorrow and, you know, just try my best.  
   
 Q.   With so much competition at the top of the leaderboard, does this take off pressure going into tomorrow at the end of the day?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   It's not going to be just me and the guy I'm playing with.   There's going to be 10 guys within two shots of the lead.   Who knows if I'll even have the lead tomorrow.   I'm not even sure.   You know, just keep doing what I'm doing.   Obviously playing fairly well and seeing some putts go in.   Just keep on keeping on.  
   
 Q.   You live 90 minutes away from here.   What does it mean?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Pretty cool.   Last month at the Canadian Open I played well up there, that's where I was born and that was close to home as well.   Played well there and now I'm playing close to where I live now.   It's a lot of fun.   I made them announce me from North Carolina today just so people would know (laughter).   Get a little focus off Webb and on to me.   It was fun.  
   
 Q.   How did you end up with Campbell?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   The only school would take me on to their team without me trying out.   It's a non-scholarship.   The only one that applied.   Tell me you can walk on, non-scholarship.  
   
 Q.   You live full-time in North Carolina now.   So you changed from it Canada to North Carolina?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Just today.  
   
 Q.   And tomorrow?  
BRAD FRITSCH:     Probably tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I heard you talking about, tell everybody where your mind was today, wasn't really --  
BRAD FRITSCH:     My dad's final round of the club championship was today up in Ottawa.   I was kind of thinking about him off and on and hoping he could pull it out.   He's never won before.   I think he had a four shot lead.   Hopefully he's finished 2nd way too many times.   Hopefully pulled it out today.  
   
 Q.   Is he scratch?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   He's about a 3, 4, but, yeah, played.  
   
 Q.   What's his name?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Brian.  
   
 Q.   With an I?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you know what he did?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   I have no idea.   I'll probably call him once I get done with your guys.  
   
 Q.   How did you approach this week being in a position that you're in?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Just that I have a fall back for the Web.com Playoffs.   I did it last year, getting through that so, you know, they said people ask me last week how Rory was going to play.   You can't say that one guy is going to win a tournament.   It's too hard.   There's too many good players.   
I can't tell you if I'm going to play great this week but I felt like I was playing well and, you know, it's exceeded my expectations so far but the way I'm playing, kind of our game plan and how we're hitting the ball I think bodes well for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Anything click for you after Thursday's round going into Friday?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Honestly, on Thursday I didn't play too badly.   I just had a lot of in between numbers.   Just didn't have a lot of -- this is a 9-iron, this is an 8-iron.   More like chip, putt, something.   It wasn't that easy for me on Thursday.   Yesterday I had a lot of perfect numbers that I hit and had a lot of shots close.  
   
 Q.   You had your back against the wall last year in the Web.com Tour Championship.   Is this similar to that, are you thinking about that week at all?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   You know, I put my back against the wall several times and usually come out okay on the other end.   I'll take that from it.   Last year I made 9 birdies in the final round to get my card.   I think, you know, it's always something to fall back on.  
   
 Q.   How would you characterize this season?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   It's been weird.   You know, I was injured in the Fall Series a little bit.   Played well at Torrey and then just couldn't get in events.  
   
 Q.   You had to go a month without playing?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Several.   Felt like I played one on, off three, played one, off four.   I think if the field sizes were the same as they were last year I would have gotten in four, five more events.   That's just frustrating.   It's frustrating time, March, April, May for me.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel that you can save the season with one week?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   It's great.   It's better than missing the cut, you know.   I'm in a great position.   I'm playing well so no reason I can't tomorrow but, again, lots of players that can shoot a 7 or 8-under.   See what happens.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit on 5?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   8.   I had 76 yards, a lob wedge.  
   
 Q.   Brad, you called it a weird season.   What was the weirdest thing in your season?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   When I Top-10 in San Diego and couldn't get in the next week in Phoenix.   Two Top-10s before this week and the next event I couldn't get in and the next event was, you know, kind of a half event out here.   Great timing.   You always take the Top-10 but didn't get me any farther down the road.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like people recognize you as a North Carolina guy here?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   After I told them to announce me, yeah.   Wore my Campbell colors today.   You know, I'm Canadian through and through but probably live here, too.  
   
 Q.   Brad, how did you end up at Campbell?   Is that an easy story to tell?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   I wrote to about 40 schools and that was the one that said come and walk on to our team.   I was non-scholarship start.   I never broke par before I got to college.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like the access for Web.com finalists needs to change?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   Are you trying to get me in trouble?   It does.   I think they've taken some steps -- just tough.   How are you going to project guys playing in Frys and Vegas last year when they had to go overseas right away to Malaysia and guys still play.   
It's hard to project.   Would like to see a safety net to get guys.   Didn't affect me as much and I'm responsible for my play after that.   But, you know, lot of guys started so far behind this year couldn't catch up.  
   
 Q.   What's your good play, what's the key?  
BRAD FRITSCH:   You know, I think just playing a bunch of weeks in a row.   I think I've gotten into events and I didn't make the cut in Reno but I made some really stupid decisions on the golf course that cost me but I still made a lot of birdies.   That's coming from John Deere and the Canadian Open.   
I play well I get on a roll.   In 2012 I had 13 out of 14 weeks we played and I played my best in the event was the 6th in a row and the best that was the 6th and 7th in the row in the second stretch.   Playing a lot of golf.   I think I figure it out as I go along.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT