RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2014
Brad Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How was that round for you, Brad?
BRAD FRITSCH:   It was good.   Obviously no bogeys out here, wind's blowing a little bit, played nicely. 
I burned the edge a lot today but also had a bunch of good up‑and‑downs.   It kind of balanced out that way.   It was nice to get up‑and‑down on the last to make sure it was bogey‑free.

Q.   How do you sum up your week here?   Because you made the cut but then had a long hill to climb. 
BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, it's a busy week, Monday to Wednesday, very busy with some obligations that normally at other tournaments you wouldn't have. 
And then just to be here on the weekends, fortunate because yesterday I made a bomb on the last hole to get in.   So I knew I had an uphill battle.
But it's nice to put together a pretty decent round and hopefully the wind blows a little bit for me, for the other guys on the course, and keeps me within shouting distance of a good finish.

Q.   Were the conditions a lot different in the end in the start of the round?
BRAD FRITSCH:   No, it blew pretty much all day.   On the second hole, we were pretty hard downwind.   So I think it blew, for the most part, the same.

Q.   Is this as close to a home game as you get, considering home hasn't been here for 20 plus years, but‑‑
BRAD FRITSCH:   It's about as close as it gets, is Montreal.   Two hours away. 

Q.   Does it feel like that?
BRAD FRITSCH:   You know, enough people make the trip down to watch that it does, yeah.

Q.   Some (inaudible) members?
BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, and guys from even the QGA that I used to play for, all the officials and everything, I see them dotted throughout the golf course.   So it's nice to be here.

Q.   Do you like that?   Used to playing when you're more anonymous, people don't know you, you're a golfer out here, or is it easier to play with family and friends watching?
BRAD FRITSCH:   It's nice to be noticed walking up to tee boxes and greens.   You never get the who is this guy type of thing.   You don't get so this week for me.   So it's nice.   It's good.   I like it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT