JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2014
Brad Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was working for you out there today? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   I hit a lot of fairways today.   I maybe missed one or two, and that hadn't been the case the first two days.   So I had more opportunities.   I hit my irons very, very well the first two days, but, again, didn't have those opportunities because a lot of them were from the rough.   I hit a couple close near the end too, which made it into a really good round instead of a nice round from 6‑under to 8‑under, and that was good. 
I had a few chances kind of middle of my back nine where I didn't convert.   I was getting a little frustrated because out here on a day like this, you've got to go low, so it's nice to make those two.

Q.   I noticed looking at your bio, one of your heros was Payne Stewart.   Were you aware this was his first win? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   No, I didn't know.

Q.   What would it mean to you, now that you know that to get your first career win on TOUR in the same area? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   Besides everything else that goes with the victory, yeah, that would just added on top of it.   Never got to meet him, but he's the reason, one of the reasons I'm here playing professional golf because I looked up to him in a big way.   So that would make it extra special, but still have a lot of work to do.

Q.   He called this place one of the most cherished wins.   What was it about him that you look up to him so much about? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   Just a little bit of style.   The reactions he gave when he played.   I'm not a big emotional guy on the golf course, but I just enjoyed watching him play and just kind of gravitated to him when I was a kid.

Q.   Your birdie on 9 was only the third birdie on that hole today, and that put your round of 8‑under.   You're second lowest round today.   Anything in particular about that or just like good to go, have a good round? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, it's obviously a long hole.   I hit 5‑iron from 214, I think.   So we were thinking just have a putt at it would be nice, but I hit it really close and made the putt.   I need 8 or 9 more birdies tomorrow.   That's what we were thinking.   Starting today I needed 14 to 16‑under for two days, so u yeah, we just need to keep going.

Q.   Earlier in the week you had some anxious moments.   Your clubs were lost for a bit.   Could you talk about that? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, I was supposed to get here at 8:40 Tuesday morning, and ended up getting here at around 2:00, and somehow my clubs weren't with me.   I played here last year, but the only practice round I had this year was nine holes at 6:00 a.m. on Wednesday.   So didn't get a lot of look at it, but it was for the most part right in front of you.   All that comes down to making putts anyway.

Q.   When something like that happens with the clubs, is it cause for anxious moments or is there a back‑up plan?   How do you approach that? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   I was obviously irritated a little bit, but there is really nothing you can do.   I spent Tuesday just kind of putting with a bunch of different putters on the putting green to get the speed of the greens.   But if you let those things bother you, you might live a shorter life.

Q.   You talked about being not that emotional on the course, so probably not that emotional off the course?
BRAD FRITSCH:   Tried not to be.   I was kind of irritated when they weren't on the ‑‑ yeah, when they didn't show up, I was kind of irritated.   But they came Tuesday night and I was able to come out Wednesday morning, so that was fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT