RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2013
Brad Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice way to finish a round there with three straight birdies.   Maybe you can take us through what led you to a strong finish? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   I felt like I played really well today.   I felt like I drove it great.   I think I hit less than 50% of the fairways, but I think that's just the nature of this golf course.   I looked like I got some horrendous bounces.   When I was expecting one way, it went the other, and that led to a little bit of frustration.   But I stayed patient. 
Other than my second hole, which I was very impatient on,   I played really well.   You know, this golf course gives you chances, but there are also times when you need to take a step back, like we did on 18 there, and say, you know, nothing good can come from me going for the green from the rough.   Laid up, and made a nice ten‑footer, so that was really important on that last hole.

Q.   You're tied for low round in the afternoon draw.   You probably don't know that, but how satisfying is it to play this well in the afternoon and knowing that you're going to get the golf course tomorrow morning when it should be less windy? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, it swirled quite a bit, obviously, in the valley which is tough.   It always does.   The greens seemed a little inconsistent speed‑wise.   It's probably sun versus shade which greens get the most of that.   Again, struggled a little bit with that on the back nine. 
But I feel like I've played well.   I feel like I hit the ball great off the tee.   The stats won't say it, but I think I missed, you know, five or six fairways probably by a foot.   So I feel like I'm playing well.

Q.   What are your thoughts on the finish of this golf course, par‑5, par‑4, and two reachable par‑5s? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, it made me feel like, okay, I've still got a couple birdie holes left, and I can still put a score up there that's pretty good.   It's obviously exciting on the last day, and it will be.   But it makes you feel like through 15 not doing much, even par, and I felt like you make two birdies and you're happy with the round.

Q.   How important is it to not put too much pressure on yourself knowing you have a limited number of rounds going into the FedExCup?   How important is it to have a good start? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   I've tried to put it behind me.   I've done a good job of that.

Q.   Sorry I brought it up. 
BRAD FRITSCH:   No, even when there were five events or six events, I've done a good job of just focusing on the round at hand.   I don't think much about it.   I haven't looked at an actual points list all year.   We get a text every week to say what we are, but that's all I've looked at.   So I don't need to know the numbers.   I know if I've played well.

Q.   Do you feel, I mean, was that the best you could have gotten out of the round, the least you got out of the round?   Somewhere in between? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   I made an unforced bogey on number 2, which is a birdie hole.   Got off to a bad start.   But I made six birdies.   So out here in the afternoon, that's pretty good when 156 players have been on the greens already.

Q.   Was it nice playing with your buddy, David? 
BRAD FRITSCH:   Yeah, it is.   We haven't played together since I think '03, in a tournament.   But that was a nice surprise.   We got the text that we were playing together, and I tried to call him right away and the call failed because he was calling me right away.   So we were having fun with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT