FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2013
Brad Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRAD FRITSCH:   On the greens, it was one of the greatest shots of all time, and it just cut through the wind.   So that was a little frustrating.   Then I hit a great putt.   Something had to go right. 
    I didn't think it was going to go right when I fluffed the bunker shot on 16, but then I chipped it in.   And then the last three holes were, obviously, I think right on Top 10, so it worked out.   I'm disappointed the way I started today.   But, all in all, I didn't drive it well at all.   And, of course (Indiscernible) from that perspective, I think I did all right.

Q.   Did you know where you were? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   I asked my caddy after 15 where are we?   He said I bet you we're like 30.   I said, well, we're close.   I think we're 25th.   I knew I had to make a couple birdies.   I didn't expect to make one on 17 when I was 40 feet down the hill.   But like I said, something had to go right.   I kept hitting decent shots, so...

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Just in there.   Yeah, he told me.

Q.   Your reaction? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   It's great.   It's a week away from my family.   I was sort of looking forward to seeing them.   But I feel like I can go to Phoenix and play well.   I handled playing in front of Tiger, so I think I should be able to handle playing in Phoenix.

Q.   There was a question of too many guys in the field?
    BRAD FRITSCH:   I think they said they had room for three.

Q.   So what's a tougher way to get?   Monday qualifying or this, what you went through today? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   Well, the way I hit it for a while today, maybe this.   You know, monday qualifying is crap shoot.   You can play great and miss by four shots and there will be three guys that shoot 61.   You just never know. 
    Out here against the best in the world, it's pretty tough.

Q.   Did Tiger say anything after that shot on 8? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   No, but I almost put my club in the wrong bag.   I started to put it in, and the caddie's like, hi.   Oh, that's not my caddie.

Q.   Who was it? 
    BRAD FRITSCH:   I think it was Erik in my group. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT