ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2019
Russell Henley
Ryan Blaum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RUSSELL HENLEY: I felt pretty good out there.  Ryan is in a little better shape than me.  I'm probably struggling more than he is.   
RYAN BLAUM: I think something, though, was in our favor, just our wave having the best ball in the morning and then alternate-shot in the afternoon.  Because that alternate-shot, that pace goes faster, so it kind of zips by a little bit easier, so it doesn't feel as drawn out, so I think that was a little helpful.   
 Q.  How much did the rain impact the way today kind of played out?  
RYAN BLAUM: Obviously the course is pretty soft, but what that rain did is it made the wind switch, so guys yesterday were playing out of the south, and we were playing out of the north all day today.  And then I think it's going back to the south, so it's going to be interesting to see how that pans out with two waves.   
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, this morning it was pretty soft.  This grain is tricky around the greens.  Definitely made the Bermuda grow a little bit, and it's laying on its side.  It's tough to judge.  The fairways firmed up I thought a little bit more this afternoon, and I think it'll continue to get firmer.   
 Q.  Were you guys expecting maybe a higher score today?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Were we expecting a higher score --   
 Q.  A lower score.  
RUSSELL HENLEY: I mean, gosh, I don't really know what to expect.  I didn't know how hard the wind was going to blow or how they were going to set up the course, but I think anything under par alternate-shot is a pretty good score.   
RYAN BLAUM: Yeah, I think we got off to a great start.  I think we were like 5-under through 7 or something like that, and just kind of held it together the back nine.  It was legit today.  It played tough.   
 Q.  What do you take out of this round going into tomorrow?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: I mean, just keep doing what we're doing.  It's such a long process, and we're just kind of at the halfway point.  Just so much golf to play.  I'm just going to try to keep going one shot at a time and just try to get some rest right now.   
RYAN BLAUM: Yeah, I mean, all I'm thinking about right now is food and sleep, honestly.  And then come out tomorrow and just fire away.   
 Q.  Russell, you showed a lot of emotion after Ryan made that putt on 18.  How big was that after such a long day?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, it was just good.  I just kind of felt like we lost just a little bit of momentum there on the back and it was just hard to get good birdie looks.  The long holes and even the holes that were shorter, the pin was in the back and into the wind, so you can't really take chances to get it close.  Just really cool to see him making that after I hit what I thought was a really good wedge shot for me.  I've been putting in work on my wedge game, and to see it pay off in a small game feels good.  Makes me excited.   
 Q.  You say that, but six birdies and an eagle, that's really impressive in this format, and 5-under on the par-5s.  What was working for you guys today?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: I think we both hit it pretty well off the tee and just getting up out of the green.  Ryan hit a hybrid to about two feet on the second hole, so eagled it this morning, as well.  Just starting out with an eagle on the 2nd kind of got the momentum in the right direction.   
RYAN BLAUM: Russell's wedge game is second to none out here, so I mean, first hole of the day, 95-yard shot, hit it to about five, six feet and I was able to bury it, and then just kind of got off to a good start, had some good vibes and got the ball rolling from there on out.   
 Q.  How important is the late tee time tomorrow after a day like today?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: It's nice.  I'm so excited.  It's going to be great.  We can take our time and get a good night's rest.   
RYAN BLAUM: Yeah, same thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT