U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2018
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: First in the Flash area today is Russell Henley.  Russell shot a 73 today and is plus 2 for the Championship.
Q. Russell, obviously, you don't want to walk off with a bogey, 16 and 18, but you're right there in it.  Can you just talk about the round?
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, I felt pretty good out there.  Felt like my swing was where I wanted it.  Felt good physically.  You know, that wind was tough.  The wind and rain was a tough stretch in the middle of the round.
You don't have to be far off to get penalized out here.  But, you know, I'm happy with how I hung in there today.  You know, yeah, you never want to finish with a bogey, but I've played a lot of good golf and, you know, if I keep doing what I'm doing, I'm going to have a good tournament.
Q. Did the rain surprise you, the weather kind of coming in surprise you a little bit?
RUSSELL HENLEY: It did.  My caddie ran and got the umbrella last second because he looked at his phone and said it was a 10 percent chance.  So it was surprising that it was kind of a pretty steady rain, you know, for a couple holes there.
Definitely makes it more difficult.  This place is pretty hard with no wind and no rain.
Q. How tough -- the first lie on No. 3, how tough was that lie down there?
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah.  Couldn't see my ball.  I could only see it if I kind of ducked down to the right.  You know, I don't know if -- maybe I should have practiced that shot more, just chipping out in the practice rounds.
I thought that I hit the right shot every time, and it's just difficult.  I mean, I would have much rather been plugged in a bunker or anywhere else.  I feel like, if I would have hit it 20 more yards offline, I probably would have been okay.  But if you hit it just off the fairway, it's not very good.
Q. How were the winds out there today?  Coming in from a different direction than yesterday?
RUSSELL HENLEY: A little more from the north.  A couple more holes were playing into the wind.  Like 14, that's a pretty tough hole into the wind.  I hit a 4 iron short of the green there.
2 and 3 into the wind are pretty tough, especially if it's raining.  I mean, 2's 236, 3's 500, par 4.  And then today, the hole I eagled yesterday on 5, it was around 260 to get to the fairway on the left, and it was just cold and drizzling, and I just didn't -- I thought if I mis-hit it, I might not be able to get to the fairway so I took it up the right side today instead.
So definitely playing a little bit different.
Q. How does it feel to be this close to the top after 36, and how do you prepare for the next 36?
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, I mean, I bet Dustin plays solid coming in.  I don't know how everybody else is doing, haven't taken a good look.  But with the conditions like this, this is not too tough.  He's got a couple downwind holes.
But, you know, I'm just trying to hang in there.  I mean, tomorrow, if I birdie, you know, the first three or four holes, then I'm in a different spot in the tournament.  We've just stopped at 36, you know.  There's still so much golf to be played, and I'm just trying to stay patient.
I'm going to just keep doing what I'm doing, keep trying to believe in every shot that I hit, and go try to get it done.
Q. Are you going to work on anything specifically tonight?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I'm going to eat some lunch and see how I feel.  I had a 4:40 a.m. wake-up, so I'm going to eat some lunch.  If I feel like it, I might go hit some putts, maybe some chips, but I'll probably just go rest.  The last 24 hours was a lot of golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT