THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2017
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 64, really good start.  Give us a view of your day today?
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, I don't think anybody knows this course that well just because it's not a regular stop.  So I just tried to play somewhat conservative and just make sure I was hitting to the fat part of the green and give myself some birdie putts.  The greens are perfect and got to roll in a few.
Q. You don't see a whole lot of low scores out there, and you're setting the bar with six right now.  What is it that's out there?  How tough is the course?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I mean, I think it's pretty long.  There's some long par 4s and the rough is really thick.  You just kind of have to, you've got to hit the fairways and take advantage of the holes that don't have as much length.
But you know, I don't know what the key is or the secret.  I just tried to hit the fairway, make sure I hit the green when I was in the fairway and you know, the greens are great and I rolled in a couple putts.
Q. Did you see the difference between one nine or the other?
RUSSELL HENLEY: Well, I think the front's got some long par 4s and 3s.  One of the par 3s is really long.  No. 1, I had 245 in today out of the wet rough, and it's a par 4.  Then 4, I had 214 out of the rough.  So if you're not hitting the fairways, it's a pretty big challenge.
Q. When you start high up on the FedExCup list, do you feel a sense of freedom, like you can play with house money and set yourself up?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I don't, because I don't think I'm guaranteed in, and I think -- I probably had the expectation I should make it through.  So that puts more pressure on me.  I'm trying to just, you know, think the opposite, think like you're talking about and just do the best I can on each shot.  So many crazy things can happen when you get this many points available for a win.  I'm just trying to be really patient these Playoff events.
Q. How did you feel about your game coming in?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I felt pretty good.  I would say the last -- my last two events, I didn't play that well but my attitude was just bad.  You know, I just got frustrated and I think the whole year, I've been playing really well, and I think my whole year is highlighted by my win at Houston but I've played really well in the majors besides one round.  Just trying to stay confident and keep believing in myself.
Q. Your thoughts on the course; it's a new stop.
RUSSELL HENLEY: It's in great shape, perfect shape.  It's got its fair share of really long, tough holes and its fair share of holes that are somewhat shorter but you can be a little more aggressive with them.  I think everybody will like it.  It played very fair.  I think like most courses we play out here, if you can fly it 300 like a lot of those guys, it helps.
Q. Do you find yourself mentally tired these last couple of weeks; do the Playoffs energize you?
RUSSELL HENLEY: Oh, definitely.  I think it's easy to get worn out out here, especially if you don't take advantage of your off-weeks and do a little resting.  For me, I have a hard time knowing when I should go out there and practice all day on an off-week or where I should take off and rest.  Something I'm still trying to figure out at a pro.
I think being rested is important, but when you come into the Playoffs, I think everybody's excited about it.  Just something else to play for.
Q. You said you felt disappointed with yourself -- what's your advice to any golfer to get through the disappointment in your own game?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I think you just have to keep working hard at it.  I think, look back and take some positives, and then if you are struggling in some areas, then go work hard at it.  I think for me, it seems like the harder I work on my game, the less pressure I feel.
I don't think there's a secret.  I just think we've got to keep it in perspective is our job, we are literally getting to play the nicest golf courses in the world and with a lot more benefits than that, too.  I think if there's a perfect answer, I would pay to know what it is.  I think it's just hard.
Q. You mentioned the conservative approach.  Can you do that all four days?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I don't know about what my approach is the next three days.  I'm just saying today, if I didn't know what was up around the green, I would play a little more conservative.  I don't know if that's necessarily the way to do it.  I just remember a couple times where I would not know -- I couldn't quite remember or just didn't know how bad it was being on the short-side of a hole so I would play more conservative.  I don't know; there's no secret, I don't think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT