THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2017
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A wonderful start, eight birdies on any course is outstanding but particularly one you haven't seen.  How pleased are you with the first day's work?
RUSSELL HENLEY: Very pleased.  I didn't know what to expect.  I knew that yesterday, I played No. 1 in the morning, and had 250 to the pin, and obviously it's a par 4.  I knew it was going to be long.
I just tried to just hit the green, play a little bit conservative.  The greens are big, so not positive what's up there.  I've got some notes, but I'm really happy.
Q. Today, 24 putts.  Take us through how you find these greens and the way you rolled it today?
RUSSELL HENLEY: A lot of the putts I had were straight downhill or fast.  So all I had to do was get it started on the line, and playing this morning, the greens were really smooth.  You know, almost made a couple early, and rolled in a couple 5-footers and just felt comfortable the rest of the day.
Q. Last year, mid 80s in FedExCup standings and this year, 19th heading into the Playoffs.  What are you improving this season and what's working this year compared to last?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I changed to Titleist last fall and I feel like it's gave me a lot of confidence.  Changed to the ball and all the clubs.  I feel like I've got a lot more control and confidence with the ball.  My caddie, Todd, is really big; he pushes me and he makes me practice when I don't want to.  I think just a lot of stuff, and last year being my worst year, I felt like all I had to do was improve this year.
Q. Birdie on the final hole, the difficult 18.  Statistically it looks like putting was very strong for you.  Did you lean on that out there today?
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, I made a couple good ones.  I had a chip-in, so that was good.  I just feel like my short game was on.  I mean, I felt like around the greens, I got it up-and-down except one time, and the greens were so smooth.  I rolled in a couple and it felt pretty easy because I was giving myself some good looks.
Q. How comfortable do you feel on this track right now?
RUSSELL HENLEY: Not super comfortable.  I think a lot of the reason why I played well is just because I'm playing to the fat part of the green.  I'm not quite comfortable with knowing exactly what's up there with some of the pins.  Just trying to hit the fairway, hit the green and I think that keeps it simple.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT