HONDA CLASSIC
March 18, 2021
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. What a way to finish.  How was it out there for you today?
 RUSSELL HENLEY:   I felt great on the greens.  I made a lot of great putts.  Actually great off the tee as well.  I don't think I missed a fairway.  So iron play was a touch sloppy, just not really solid, hitting the ball solid.
 But I had some good breaks as well.  So everything kind of was going my way today and also feel like I executed inside 10 feet, made some nice par saves.
 Q. It looked like at 7 you missed the tee shot to the right, you were in there and came out pretty hot.  You hit the flag stick and landed two feet away.  That's kind of how it goes when things are going your way, right?
 RUSSELL HENLEY:   Yeah, that was a good break.  I definitely clipped that and put good spin on it.  And the guys in my group were saying it probably wouldn't have been more than 10 feet by.  And from where I was, I mean, I was glad it hit the pin and, yeah, stress-free par after that.
 So I was, I'll take that all day.  So, it was, yeah, definitely had some good breaks and hopefully I can continue to just keep getting good breaks the rest of my career and never have a bad one.
 Q. A couple Top-5s earlier in the season and of course top-10 here last year and of course won in 2014.  When you come back here you got to feel pretty good, knowing that you feel like have you a pretty good chance to play well?
 RUSSELL HENLEY:   Yeah, I feel good about my game going into this week, I feel like I put some good practice in the last week.  And this course will just beat you up and I just, for some reason, I feel like, because it's so hard, I don't get quite as -- I do get stressed and nervous, but I feel like it takes a little pressure off me.  I feel like it's such a beast that you just got to hang in there the entire time and that's what I try to do.
 Q. The wind's kind of out of the south.  You make birdie at 16.  Is the south wind an easier wind to play in The Bear Trap?
 RUSSELL HENLEY:   I would say on 16 it is, because it's a downwind tee shot and downwind second shot.  But I would say on -- yeah, I would say you're probably going to have less balls in the water with a south wind because it's pushing the balls on 15 towards land.  When you get that into left-to-right wind that can be pretty tough.  But if it's blowing 20 like it is today it doesn't matter where the wind is, it's hard.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT