TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2016
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How much fun was that back nine when birdies were so plentiful between the three of you guys?
RUSSELL HENLEY: It was good.  You know, after 12, I just missed a pretty makeable one, hit a spike mark, I think, and barely missed it, but those guys made birdies on 12, and I mean, I was kind of feeling a little bit like I'm kind of getting lapped here.  Hit two great shots on 13, and rolled one in for eagle.  Had a couple good ones coming in.  It was a good back nine for sure.
Q. Based on the play today, how much are you looking forward to Sunday now?
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, I'm excited.  I didn't think that we would all have the highest score with 5-under starting the day because it was a little bit windy, but I'm excited.  It's good to be close in contention, and just excited to go compete.
Q. You must be pleased with today's round.
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, I'm excited.  It was a good back nine.  A little bit of a slow start today, but hung in there and had a couple birdies on the back.
Q. What is it about this course?  Is it the sight lines, you have a really good feel where you want to put the ball for the approach?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I feel like I'm doing everything pretty good.  I feel like I'm keeping it in front of me off the tee.  I feel like I'm hitting my wedges pretty well.  I think hitting a lot of fairways out here is important because then you can pretty much attack any pin as long as you hit a decent shot.
I've made a couple good putts, and that's about it.
Q. What is your comfort level on the greens here?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I feel pretty good.  I'm trying to not read too much into them.  I feel like the more you look at a lot of these putts from every angle, I feel like I complicate it sometimes.  Just trying to take a look and go with my instinct.
Q. With the kind of round that you had today, with the players that you're playing with today, was it fun?
RUSSELL HENLEY: It was a blast.  I mean, Daniel played great, made it look easy, and I felt like I hung in there pretty well considering my front nine, so it was good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT