SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 5, 2016
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Heck of a round.  We haven't seen a lot of low numbers so far on Saturday.  How did you put it together?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: A couple long putts.  I actually missed a couple makeable six-, seven-footers on the back nine, which was my front nine, and then the front nine, my back nine, I made a couple long putts and made a couple six-, seven-footers, as well.  I just kept giving myself chances and rolled in a couple.   
 Q.  You had a pretty unique situation where you're playing right behind the final group on your final nine, their front nine.  What was that dynamic like as you were trying to put some heat on them?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, they were telling us to speed up a little bit, and then we ran into them, and I got to watch them play a couple holes.  That's where you want to be.  I think it just motivated me for sure.  I haven't won in a couple years, and I'm just ready to get back in the hunt more often.   
 Q.  It was a lot of fun to watch you out there.  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, it was fun.  I hung in there today in the first couple holes and made some pars where I got myself a little out of position and just rolled in a couple birdie putts and kept it going.   
 Q.  Talk about the shot into the green on No. 3, which was playing the most difficult.  I think there was only one birdie before you made one there.  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, I had a perfect number for a 7-iron.  We were playing at about 5 percent adjusted for altitude, and I just committed to trying to hit it just left of the flag, and I pushed it about a couple yards, and it wound up pretty nice.   
 Q.  I thought you got a nice break on 6 for the ball to stay up there.  It was one rotation from going all the way down the hill.  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, I thought I hit a pretty decent shot, and I just didn't take enough club.  For me this week the most difficult thing -- this is my third year, I think, playing here, it's just getting the right number and knowing whether to take off 4 percent, 5 percent, 7 percent, just depending on the time of day.  If you play early, the ball goes way shorter.  I just kind of struggle with that, especially with the wedges, so that was one of those where I misjudged it, but I hit a decent shot.   
 Q.  You were talking about struggling to find the right clubs to hit at the right times and the right spots.  What's the key to getting it right and taking the guesswork out of it?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Well, it's always a guess for me because I'm from the East Coast, and the ball just is a little more consistent throughout the day with how far it goes.  Yeah, there will be times where if it gets a little hot, it goes a little farther, but out here it just goes farther, and the closer you get, you just have to use less percentage.  Day-to-day, I try to do it by feel, but sometimes I get it wrong.   
 Q.  Did you have a number in mind when you teed off today?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Well, in my head I was thinking I'd love to get to at least double digits under par, but you know, you can't really do that in golf.  Seems like whenever you go low, it's when you least expect it.  I just want to be present for every shot for 72 holes and give myself the best chance.   
 Q.  Were the pins in some strange spots?  They will be tomorrow, but did you find any today that were particularly challenging?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: I thought the pin on 3 was pretty hard.  That's a tough hole as it is, and I hit a great second shot in there and made birdie, but that was a tough pin.  Other than that, I feel like I've seen all the pin locations.  You can just put it in the fairway, and then you can attack it.   
 Q.  Was 3 kind of the key to getting you going?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, that kept it going for sure.  I felt like I missed a couple opportunities earlier in the round, and that one felt pretty good.   
 Q.  Thoughts about tomorrow?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, these guys got a lot of birdie holes ahead of them, so it's not like I'm going to be leading or anything.  I'm just going to try to do the same thing I did today and just stay patient and just do the best I can on each shot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT