SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 2, 2016
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Russell, another solid day out here.  What a start.  Anytime you can hole out for a deuce, that's a pretty good way to do.  4-under after four.  Great way to start this round.
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, it was.  I felt like the wind only got harder as the day went on and more difficult to judge just because of the way the golf course is shaped.  Sometimes it felt like it was hurting and sometimes it felt like it was helping.  It was hard to guess.  They're all sideways.  I never started out, I don't think, with a 2 in a tournament.  Maybe I have, but I don't remember it.
Q. So you're 4-under, and despite making the double at 11, you come back with 3 more birdies.  Didn't let that get you down.
RUSSELL HENLEY: No.  I think I've -- I think I've let stuff like that get to me a decent amount this year and I'm working on pushing through, because I'm really believing in my game, I'm really confident with it.  And if I can just get out of my own way, I -- just maybe I can shoot some more good scores.
Q. You only hit 9 greens but the short game was really good and you're putting really well.
RUSSELL HENLEY: The greens are perfect out here.  They always are.  Just trying to believe in myself.
Q. Thoughts on tomorrow?  This is a jammed-up leaderboard up at the top.
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah.  I don't know what the weather is going to be.  If it's windy again, anything like a par is a pretty good score.  I'm happy to be around the lead.  It's a little bit different from the start of the year.  I'm excited to play well.
Q. Thanks for your time.  Go get them tomorrow.
RUSSELL HENLEY: Thanks a lot.
Q. Missed six of seven cuts this year.  Obviously playing well.  What's changed, anything?  Or what's going well this week?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I took some time off last week.  It's something I haven't done this year and just trying to have a good attitude.  I feel like my game is as good as it's ever been all around.  I think my attitude has been the thing holding me back this year.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RUSSELL HENLEY: I played some tennis and just hung out.  Just relaxed a little bit.
Q. When you say it's your attitude, what do you adjust even though the results aren't there but you feel good?  I mean, how does it change that you put yourself in position to get back in the winner's circle?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I think self-talk.  I think letting things go.  It's hard to do out here.  We play so much golf and you're playing against the best players in the world and they don't make many mistakes.  So, I think you put a lot of pressure on yourself to not make mistakes and that makes you tighten up a little bit.  I'm just trying to be confident in my game and believe I have what it takes, which I do, and just keep going.
Q. How does a quick start like you had here in the 3rd round sort of let that happen?
RUSSELL HENLEY: It was good.  I knew that the whole day was going to be a lot tougher than I played first hole.  Starting with a 2 is obviously great, but there's a lot of sidewind the way this course is set up today and tough to judge.  So I knew I had to battle the whole day no matter what.  I'd love to start off with a 2 every time I play.  It was nice.
Q. How do you keep it going for Sunday?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I think attitude.  I proved today that you don't have to be perfect to have a good round out here or anywhere.  I just got to keep believing that.
Q. How did you realize maybe that it was the attitude adjustment?  You realized it or someone help you with it?
RUSSELL HENLEY: I think just looking back on all my rounds and just seeing how I've been talking to myself, which has not been that good, and just kind of realizing okay, there's really nothing in my game that I feel like I'm struggling with really, really badly.  Obviously I haven't made that many putts.  That's attitude as well.  So, I feel like I've tried everything else and I've gotten the same results.  I think I'm just come to the conclusion it's attitude.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT