TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 13, 2014
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fantastic back nine topped off by a 22‑footer for birdie on the last.   That never hurts, especially on a course this difficult, right?  
RUSSELL HENLEY:   Yeah, it is difficult.   I've been hitting my driver pretty well this week, and I think that's a big key out here is putting the ball in the fairway.   It was definitely nice to roll in a nice putt there.   It's always tough to birdie 18.  
   
 Q.   Tom Alter is our FedExCup extraordinaire, so right when you made that putt, he said, "Russell can win the FedExCup if he wins the tournament."   Statistically it can happen right now.   Do those things cross your mind?  
RUSSELL HENLEY:   Not really.   I mean, I'm kind of far out of it, I think.   I think I saw Billy and Rory playing pretty well, and I don't see them going backwards or anything.   I'm just going to try to learn from this experience.   This is my first time here, and I've played well so far, so I'm just going to try to have a nice Sunday.  
   
 Q.   You seem to do well as a first‑timer.   You won as a rookie, no problem.   You come here to the TOUR Championship, put yourself in contention.   You seem to have nerves of steel.   Does your experience throughout the PGA TOUR, has it prepared you for this big stage?  
RUSSELL HENLEY:   I think so.   I mean, into my second year out here and third year as a pro, I've definitely tried to learn from every situation I'm in.   I feel like I've played enough bad golf this year to motivate me to play some good golf the rest of the year.   I'm just trying to keep my chin up no matter what happens and learn from it.  
   
 Q.   And lastly, did you have anyone on the course telling you the Georgia game was delayed, you're actually going to be able to catch the majority of it.   
RUSSELL HENLEY:   I heard about that when I was over at 12 and I was very excited, so I'm about to hang out and try to watch the rest of the game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT