DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2014
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE: Russell Henley, thanks for joining us for a minute.  6-under, 65, Round 3 of the Deutsche Bank Championship today.  A few comments on the round and then we'll take a few questions.   RUSSELL HENLEY: You know, I felt like I've been playing well all three days and hitting my driver well.  Gave myself a lot of good chances for birdie today.  And was able to capitalize on most of them. I didn't really feel like I had to grind too much out there.  And usually when you have a good round like that it seems pretty easy.  Hopefully I can just keep doing that.   Q.  You said you felt like you were playing well for three days, but what was the difference that enabled you to score better today?  RUSSELL HENLEY: Well, I think the wind was a little bit trickier the first two days.  And from Thursday to Friday it changed completely and was opposite directions -- I'm sorry, Friday and Saturday.  And I think today it was just a little bit warmer out and probably wasn't blowing quite as hard and just made a couple extra putts, I guess.   Q.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but last year was your only other appearance here, you didn't play all that great.  When you showed up here was it a course you felt some confidence with or did you not like how it fit your eye, what's been the biggest reason for your success this year as opposed to last?  RUSSELL HENLEY: I've played a lot of golf since then.  And I think it takes a lot of guys out here a few years to kind of get comfortable.  And I think -- I don't think I'm really there yet but I think I'm on the way.  And I liked it last year.  I think I shot 66 on Friday -- on a Saturday last year.  I like the course. This year I just feel like I've been a little bit more in control of the ball.  That's about all I can tell you.   Q.  Knowing how well Rory played today and has been playing in this string of golf, is he someone you have to keep an eye on for tomorrow?  RUSSELL HENLEY: The No. 1 player in the world?  Absolutely.  You've got to play all four rounds out here on Tour and I expect everybody out there to go play well tomorrow.  Everybody is so good at this level and it's so hard to compete and beat these guys.  Rory is having a great year, and a lot of guys are playing well. So it's so far off, so much golf we play to be thinking about too much.  But I'm not really going to be keeping an eye on anybody, I expect everybody to play really well and I'm going to try to play well.   Q.  Would it mean, even though you're going to concentrate on your game, would it mean even more to win a tournament where Rory is playing, he's only two shots behind and you hold him off in the final round?  RUSSELL HENLEY: Yes.  I mean it would be nice, he's obviously a tough guy to beat.  But like I said there's a lot of guys tough to beat, and Rory has had a heck of a run and I'm sure he'll continue that.  It will mean a lot to have a nice finish here tomorrow.  I don't like to get into what it would mean and all that.  I'm just trying to worry about me.  I know I can't control anybody else.  So I know that's kind of a cliché answer.  I'm just going to try to enjoy it out there.   Q.  You won at Honda.  What can you use for tomorrow to help you get across the line?  RUSSELL HENLEY: Unfortunately I can't -- well, I guess it's knowing that I can compete.  I've won twice out here.  One time I birdied the last five holes and shot 29 on the back nine.  One time I tried to hold it together the last couple of holes and won in a playoff.  There's a lot of ways to win.  But I'm trying to not focus on that.  I'm just trying to really enjoy it.  Nobody is really expecting me to be sitting here right now.  And that's kind of how I like it.   Q.  Did you expect to be sitting there?  RUSSELL HENLEY: I know I can.  And I believe in myself.  And I think hopefully you'll be seeing more of me in the future, but this game is so hard, I don't know.   Q.  I'm not sure coming into this week you even thought about Ryder Cup, but if you do win tomorrow, that would be two wins, and we have very few people on the U.S. team currently that even have one win.  What would your expectations be if that happened?  RUSSELL HENLEY: You know, making the Ryder Cup team would be great.  It's pretty far off.  I've got to play a lot of good golf tomorrow.  That would be a great thing.  It's just one of those things that I try not to think about. Coming in here, I mean, nobody is really expecting me to play well.  I was 62 or something in the FedEx coming in, and hadn't had the most consistent year.  It all sounds great and it seems great, but I've got to do a lot of good stuff for that to happen.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  RUSSELL HENLEY: I don't know.  I think I'm just -- I think I'm just still figuring it all out.  It's always my ball-striking, it seems like.  And I feel like I've been working really hard on my ball-striking to keep the ball more in front of me and hitting it a little bit better.  I feel like that's the biggest difference this week. I always feel pretty good with my putter.  The other thing I have to work on is my attitude, and not be so hard on myself.  The combination of those things made me play some pretty good golf the last couple of days, hopefully one more.   Q.  What happens with your attitude?  RUSSELL HENLEY: I get upset because I want to compete.  Like I said before, earlier interview, everybody is so competitive out here, and it just frustrates me when I'm not playing the way I think I should be playing.  So a lot is hard on me being hard on myself.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  RUSSELL HENLEY: Absolutely.  I think it probably has for sure.  Something I'm trying to get better at.   Q.  What do you think that the Georgia/Florida score is going to be this year?  RUSSELL HENLEY: I think it's going to be probably 49-0 (laughter.)  Who asked that?  I'm just kidding.   Q.  What happened at the game last year?  RUSSELL HENLEY: The last couple of years we've gone pretty good against Florida.   Q.  The weather wasn't bad for the Florida game.  RUSSELL HENLEY: They got us good for a bunch of years in a row, so I just try and enjoy one year at a time.   DOUG MILNE: Russell, we appreciate you coming in.   RUSSELL HENLEY: Thanks, guys.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT