THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2014
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It definitely got breezy at times this afternoon.   
RUSSELL HENLEY:   It was breezy and it was difficult.   I think it was blowing maybe a little harder than when I played yesterday on my back nine.   It was a tough test, and I felt like I hung in there really well, considering.   
   
 Q.   Had a couple back‑to‑back bogeys, but you responded, a big birdie kind of turned your round in the right direction at 6.   
RUSSELL HENLEY:   Yeah, 6 was huge.   I hit one of the best shots I've hit in a while on that hole.   I hit a pretty bad 3‑iron in the pine straw and my ball was up against a pine cone and a stick, and had to keep it under a tree and land it just on the front and roll it to the back flag.   Did that and made birdie, so that gave me a lot of confidence.   It was nice to finish with a birdie, as well.   
   
 Q.   And you stuffed it in to 6, made a 25‑footer, then you stuff it into 7 nice and tight for back‑to‑back birdies.   
RUSSELL HENLEY:   Yeah, I did.   It was a perfect full wedge and just trusted it and got a nice hop towards the flag.   It landed a little short there.  
   
 Q.   A little revenge after a double bogey on that hole in the opening round.   
RUSSELL HENLEY:   I think so.   You know, I tried to put that behind me.   I'm going to make mistakes; I'm human.  
   
 Q.   Just your second year on TOUR, yet your experience in these positions going into the weekend, what are your thoughts?   
RUSSELL HENLEY:   I'm excited.   I feel like I'm in good position, and I'm going to give it everything I've got.   I'm going to go after it, and I'm going to try to win.   
   
 Q.   You've putted well.   As of this moment, players still on the golf course, you're No.1 in the field in strokes gained putting.   
RUSSELL HENLEY:   Yeah, you know, I always feel confident with my putter.   I feel like if I can get on the green, I probably have a good chance of making it, and that's the way I normally am when I'm playing well, and I think everybody else is, too.   I think last year I was up there in strokes gained, as well, and I think that's what kept me making some cuts later in the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT