JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2019
Russell Henley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not the way you wanted to finish, but you're still going to be in a good spot going into the weekend.  What do you need to adjust going into Saturday?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, I didn't hit it quite as well today.  A couple mistakes there on 18.  But I feel confident in my game.  I haven't made a putt in a while, so it's been a grind.  But just trying to hang in there, and a long way to go.   
 Q.  How much different did it play in the morning versus yesterday afternoon?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: It was a little shorter, but the greens were still great.  A little different wind, but not -- just not much different.   
 Q.  Are you seeing that consistency more that you were looking for yesterday?  You said you'd been feeling pretty lost out there.  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, just around the greens I have.  But I felt okay today.  I didn't feel amazing, but I just kind of hung in there, made a few par saves, and I mean, I'm happy with how I hit it.  I didn't want to finish that way, but yeah.   
 Q.  How big was the par save at 7 in particular?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: 7, yeah.  Sometimes you stand over putts and you just feel like you're going to make it, and I just kind of knew I was going to make that one.  It was a great save to keep the round going.  I didn't hit that bad of a shot off the tee I didn't think, but gave myself a tough one -- it's always good to make par saves.  I think that's the biggest thing out here is when you can make those putts for par and keep the going round.   
 Q.  Obviously you're going to be in nice position for Saturday.  What will your approach be and how will that formulate your plan as you get going tomorrow?  
RUSSELL HENLEY: Yeah, just keep my head down and keep grinding.  It's so hard; everybody out here is so good.  Just maybe get a little practice in later today and just try to stay aggressive with my targets and just keep grinding.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT