NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2009
Brandon Roy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You've established yourself as one of the best players in the league. Has it ever occurred to you?
 BRANDON ROY: I never even thought about it that way. Since you said it, it is unbelievable. You grow up as a kid, it is one in a million to make the NBA, to be among the top 24 and to be so young, I'm honored. 
 My biggest thing is don't think about it. I just continue to work. I continue to work and try to get better and get better every day. 
 That's the only reason I'm in this position. Moving forward, I don't even think about it. It is just how do I stay in this position? That's just how I work.

 Q. Does this ever get old? 
 BRANDON ROY: This is only my second year, so nah. 

 Q. Let me rephrase that. How does this compare to the first time?
 BRANDON ROY: It is the same. It is the same. I am a little more relaxed, just to be in the presence of so many great players and people to remind you that you are an All-Star. Even with Shaq being here, I think he is just as excited to be here as he was his first year because it is the All-Star Game and you are amongst the best. Every basketball player dreams of being amongst the best players in the game. 
 I don't think it gets old. 

 Q. A lot of high pressure last year and this year with the All-Star Game. What was the biggest surprise -- what was the main thing you took home that you didn't expect going into the All-Star? Any locker room jinx?
 BRANDON ROY: It was a lot more relaxed than I thought. Everybody was going to the game. The coach last year, Coach Byron said just to have fun. Just to hear the conversation amongst the guys in the locker room, I thought, was great. 
 Nothing surprised me. It was just cool being around all the players.

 Q. How fun is it compared to being a Portland Trail Blazer. That's got to be fun too?
 BRANDON ROY: Oh, yeah. I love being a Trail Blazer. I think last year was the first time in the last four or five years to be in the All-Star Game. Representing the City of Portland has been great. I think we got great fans and they do a great job of supporting us. 
 I'm just trying to do my best to go out and represent the Trail Blazers.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT