NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2006
Brandon Roy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  So you're a Portland Trail Blazer, two hours from home; what are you going to bring to Portland, a team that probably needs a guy like you? 
 BRANDON ROY:  Hopefully, you know, I just bring some stability.  I'm going to come in, I played four years in college, they are expecting me to come in and be a leader and work hard.  The biggest thing they wanted me to do was come in and try to lead by example, so that's something I'm going to try to do. 

 Q.  Trail Blazers have been seriously down in attendance.  How much do you think them drafting you is somewhat of a marketing move to sell some tickets? 
 BRANDON ROY:  I think that may play a part. 
 But also, I think they see a chance to maybe get a good player who can play out on the wing and do a number of things on the floor to maybe help them win.  I've played a lot of games in Oregon, so hopefully they don't boo me too bad and hopefully they will be fans of mine now. 

 Q.  Just to follow-up on that marketing question, they have had some public relations problems with players over the years, I would assume your good guy image has to help.  And also, was this something in the back of your mind, to be able to stay close to home, was it a fantasy in the back of your mind? 
 BRANDON ROY:  Yeah, going through the process it definitely was a dream of mine to play in Seattle or play close to Portland.  I went to the University of Washington where my family could only drive 20 minutes to games and now they can drive two hours to games.  It makes me comfortable to be able to go out there and compete at my highest level. 

 Q.  You've been talked about as one of the more NBA-ready players in this draft.  How NBA-ready do you feel? 
 BRANDON ROY:  I feel good now, but, you know, the NBA is a new game.  It's going to be a new game that I have to get used to playing.  I just want to get in the gym and work hard and try to be able to work up to people's expectations and my own. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT