U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2017
Amanda Jacobs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just a little bit about your tournament and then today specifically.  
AMANDA JACOBS: Well, obviously any time you make it to the quarterfinals of a national championship it's a good experience.   
Reflecting instantaneously, Hey, losing the last three holes kind of sucked.  The thing about match play is all you have to do is beat your opponent.  You don't have to beat the golf course.   
The tournament, if you would have asked my caddie, Graham, at the beginning how poorly I struck the ball in the practice rounds, he said we might not make the cut.   
So to make it here, and the thing about this is you make small improvements every day and get a little bit better.  Today I didn't quite do that and Marissa played great.   
Yeah, so it was a great tournament.   
 Q.  You were 3-up through 11 holes, I believe.  Did you think, Hey, man, I'm cruising, or what?  
AMANDA JACOBS: Not really like, Hey, man, I'm cruising.  Hey, man, I might be like puttering.  (Laughter.)   
To be honest, it's a lot of golf to walk.  I think some of the errant shots are when your legs get tired.  I would say today was my worst putting day, which everyone knows it helps to strike the ball, but it really helps to putt out here.   
 Q.  I've been told this is a putter's course.  
AMANDA JACOBS: It's an everything course.  I think you have to hit the ball straight, and then if you don't put it pretty close, especially with where they put these pins over the past couple days, you have to be pretty consistent with your speed.   
 Q.  Walk me through 18.  What happened up there?  How far was your putt?  
AMANDA JACOBS: So 18, smoked a drive.  I was happy with that.  Then I was 142 yards out.  We thought there was a little breeze, so hit a 150 shot.  Our target was kind of over the edge of the bunker just because that's where the mass of the green was.   
 Q.  What club did you use?  
AMANDA JACOBS: I used a 6-iron.  I hit it pretty well; just didn't have my normal draw on it, which makes sense, trouble being left.  Hit it to -- God, I feel like it was 19 paces, maybe 17 paces.  We thought it was about an 80% speed putt.   
Really I thought when I hit it it was a really good putt, maybe three feet by.  All of a sudden it hits the hole and goes by.  I'm like, Wow, that's really far by.   
And then the putt coming back, we read it as center right and there is a little patch of grass and it actually just broke right off of it.   
 Q.  Is that six feet or so for par?  
AMANDA JACOBS: Probably a little bit further than that, to be honest.  Maybe seven.   
 Q.  Then your third putt was...  
AMANDA JACOBS: Well the third putt didn't matter because -- yeah, it was tap-in.  Tap-in doesn't really matter when you need to make a putt.  That's life.   
 Q.  Now you're all square.  You go to the extra hole, No. 10.  What were you thinking on the tee shot?  I'm sure you were disappointed, but you've got more golf to play.  
AMANDA JACOBS: Yeah, probably one of my strengths is I don't really remember a lot about golf.  I couldn't remember what I did last year or even two days ago.   
So our thought was we've been hitting at the utility box, so just take a draw off the utility box and we'll be great.  Hit a great drive 132 yards in, which is about a perfect 8-iron, my favorite club.   
What we've been doing today, I think with the legs being tired, is you just kind of come over the top and close the face.  I hit a draw, but I hit it starting at the pin versus starting --   
 Q.  Middle of the green.  
AMANDA JACOBS: -- paces to the right.   
Thought I hit a decent chip.  Obviously our miss is long, so you have a putt versus chipping again.   
 Q.  Right.  What do you think your distance was with your chip?  
AMANDA JACOBS: Probably maybe 20 yards.   
 Q.  20 yards or so?  
AMANDA JACOBS: I think it was like 16 paces at the top of the hill.   
 Q.  Which club did you use?  
AMANDA JACOBS: I used a 58-degree.  I had the grain going with me, which is always helpful down here.  Flew it two yards farther than I wanted.  That was the difference between having a three-footer and having a, gosh, I don't know, a 10-footer or something.  A 10-foot super breaker, and let my right hand get a little strong on it.   
 Q.  What do you take away from this week?  Like you say, this is a great position to be in.  
AMANDA JACOBS: What I take away from the week?  I think you just take away that it's golf.  To make it to the quarterfinals with all these greats players is pretty cool.  I had a great caddie, Graham, who is a local caddie here.  Just helped me through the grain, because that I'm not used to.   
Having my best friend, Gretchen, who got knocked out in the round of 64, having that support kind of pushing you along.   
Take away, just go to the next tournament, hit the next one.  I think the greatest takeaway is knowing I can competes at this level.  Sky is the limit.   
 Q.  Is this your best finish in a USGA event?  
AMANDA JACOBS: It ties, last year I made it to the quarterfinals as well.  Didn't have a great showing, but then had a rally.  I kind of did the opposite this year.  That's just golf.   
 Q.  Do you know Graham's last name?  
AMANDA JACOBS: Johnstone.   
 Q.  So he has a little bit of local knowledge to impart?  
AMANDA JACOBS: Yes.  He's got a great Scottish accent as well.  He's been in the Houston area for 13 years.  Says he loves every moment he's in Houston.  He's a great green reader and all-around great guy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT