JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2004
Joel Kribel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL KRIBEL:  Well, when I started the round I wasn't really thinking that winning was going to be on option.  I mean, it probably still isn't, but I gave it a good run.

As I played my round I was just hoping to go out and put a solid round together.  You know, I managed to throw a bunch of birdies together on the way in and got to where I got within at least a look of the lead

So it was a fun day.
Q.  Did you take a look at the board after 17?
JOEL KRIBEL:  Yeah, I'm one of the guys who watches the board all the time.  There's some people that do and some that don't, but I watch all the time.  It's nice to see my name up there.  It would have been nicer if I could have played the last hole a little better and gave me something to shoot at.
Q.  Can you talk about 18 and the second shot you had?  Did the deflection help you at all?  It looked like from TV it might have gone in the water if it didn't hit the branch.
JOEL KRIBEL:  Obviously I hit it higher than I wanted to, but out of that rough if you try to hit it too low it'll get hung up.  It shot up a little more than I would have liked.  I felt like I hit it solid to get it back to the hole, but the deflection shot it back to the right and then it kicked left, so it probably -- it's hard to say if it hurt or helped.  If it would have got through clean I don't know what would have happened.  It could have ended up good, could have ended up in the water.  It would have depended on the bounce I would have got.

I figured when I was over there I had to at least take a chance at it and try to make 3 and 4 at worst, but it didn't work out that way.  I'm still happy with the way everything went.
Q.  It looked like you were having a great day overall.
JOEL KRIBEL:  Yeah, it's going to be the best finish of my career, so with that I'm really excited.  I'm playing on a medical this year, and making money is a big thing for me to keep my card, and this is going to be a big step towards that.  I feel good about the way everything went.
Q.  You've played some good golf in Illinois.  Even the TV broadcasters talk about your run in the amateur here.  When you come back to Illinois do you still think about that a little bit?
JOEL KRIBEL:  Yeah, obviously I was thinking about it more last week at Cog because that's where I was when I did well.  It's the same area, same type of people, same weather, all that, so it does bring back some good memories for me.  It was nice to get a good week after a poor week last week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT