U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 1998
Brenda Corrie-Kuehn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  Nobody in the threesome wanted to come back at 6:45 tomorrow to tee off on that hole.  Of all the holes, that is the one you don't want to start on. So we were on 17, we pretty much ran to the 18th tee - somebody to tee off before the horn went off. 
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  Kristal Parker and Helen Wadsworth. 
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  Birdied 3.  Hit a 9-iron in about ten feet, birdied that.  Bogeyed 5, 6 and 9 with three putts and then on 14 I birdied -- I hit a lob wedge in and I had about eight feet. I birdied 14.  On 16, again, I had a lob wedge in and I had there about three feet.  Then on 18, I putt it in the bunker and -- 
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  Off the tee.  Then had to hit an 8-iron out.  Had about 100 yards in; put it about 15 or 18 feet in, 2-putted, missed the putt. 
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  No, I hit 8-iron from the bunker to lay up to 100 yards.  Then hit a sand wedge in. 
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  2-putted from about 18 feet. 
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  You know, I just got off the golf course, I haven't even thought about it.  I am not sure I even want to think about it tonight.  I am just -- I am excited that I made the cut to begin with, which was my goal.  I am just excited to be here.  I am happy to be here, like they say.  And, tomorrow just try and forget about the surroundings and try and play golf. 
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  I haven't, but I will tell you what, I just spoke to her in the locker room and I told her that my dad was a very deep admirer of her, of her swing, so, we will be -- it will be very interesting to be playing with her.  I think it will be a great honor playing with her, with my dad caddying.  I am sure he will be watching her swing more than he will be watching my swing. 
 

Q.  Is this a pretty amazing feeling for an amateur to be in this position?
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  I'll tell you, it is a great feeling to be in the Open to begin with.  And then to be -- to make the cut, I made it for the first time last year and it is a terrific feeling.  You just -- you feel like you are in cloud 9. 
 

Q.  Did, in fact, only one person tee off at 18 before the horn sounded or did you have more time than you think you had?
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  We had a little more time than we thought.  We actually had all three players off.  Helen -- I hit first.  Helen hit second.  And then we had to wait for Kristal to walk from the 17th green, and then she hit and the minute she hit, the horn went off.  So we did have a little more time.  I could have taken a little more time. 
 

Q.  Is it safe to assume that you weren't thinking in terms of coming out at 6:45 and then playing in the second last group, that combination?  You said this hasn't sunk in yet, I mean --
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  Oh, second last group tomorrow? 
 

Q.  Yeah.  When you were teeing off on 18.
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  Didn't even cross my mind. All I wanted to do was -- I was in a rhythm.  I had a rhythm going by that point.  It was very hard for me after the rain delay, I hit the -- played the first three holes really well.  Hit the tee shots really well which, for me, it is my key.  So I was swinging well; got to the 4th tee, we had downwind, feeling good, then they brought us in for an hour. And I had a hard time after that.  Hit a bad tee shot, just had a hard time after that delay.  So, I got to 17, I knew we were going.  We were moving well through the back 9, we were going, and I felt that I had a better opportunity to play 18 better, even though it was a little rushed, than having to come back tomorrow and hit that -- you are always nervous on the first tee shot in the morning, so I really didn't want to have that again. 
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  Oh, my gosh, was it a factor? Yes.  You just -- it looks from the tee shot -- from the tee box, it looks like the fairway is about 10 yards wide.  And  every time -- I have played this course now four times, and you walk up and you say:  You have got a lot more room left than you think you do, but it is just so hard to make yourself hit it left of those bunkers, so. . . 
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  Stayed in vans.  We stayed out there, I think, for 51 minutes. 
 

Q.  Which hole?
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  We were on 4th tee. 
 

Q.  Now that you have made your first goal with ease, is it likely that you may set another goal sometime before you hit the first tee tomorrow?
 
BRENDA CORRIE KUEHN:  Probably go home and think about it.  But, yes, there will probably be -- you know, my goals are probably lower than what you all are expecting.  I want to set them where they are reachable and start -- I want to start from the bottom up.  So, making the cut was the first one.  Well, actually playing well the first day was the first goal because if you have a bad day, you can't make up strokes at the U.S. Open on the second day.  And so the -- they are going one at a time.  I don't know, I will have to sit go home and think about it and see what --  but I will have some kind of goal for tomorrow. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT