INDYCAR SERIES: INDIANAPOLIS 500
May 25, 2003
Helio Castroneves
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES:  I never experienced I am not enjoying it at all   -- no, I will take that back.  This whole month of May, it has been incredible.  Starting from the pole position, support from the fans, support from you guys, from the press, you know, that was just  -- it's just outstanding.  You can't compare those situations like that.  Well, today was obviously a little bit about disappointment in my emotion, but I guess this is part of the game.  The good news is my teammates, so at least it's part of the team.  The team is the one that is winning and I guess everybody in the shop is going to be extremely happy, you know, so  -- that's well worth it.  Our relationship between myself, between Gil, and whole entire team it's extremely fantastic.  The group is very unique, the group is very tight, you know, and I guess we  -- those situations and circumstances, just have to be happy and accept  -- I accept extremely well.  It was a phenomenal race.  My car was very, very good.  I was just taking it easy, and unfortunately, I took too easy and one of the back markers kind of got in the way, and, hey, you can't slip at all in this place.  And this place always gives you a surprise.  Well, I am happy with second.  Now we need to think about the Championship and keep working.  
 
Q.  Helio, can you maybe expand on the question I asked earlier about Tony, in walking around the garage area this month, did you ever notice Gil in any pain whatsoever; and second part, that back marker, who was that and did you think that that was going to be the move that was going to win for Gil?
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES:  Well, obviously, I have been watching Gil (inaudible) we all went to his home and see if he's okay because every time we keep calling saying, you are going to practice next session?  He says, no.  I am still feeling bad; my back hurts.  He just wants to stay home.  I got that.  So his back is really, really good.  But no, it's awesome to be -- we just play around with each other and he seems to be very healthy, and as you can see out there, no doubt about he's doing very well.  The back markers, I believe, was A.J., I  did same exactly move in Turn 2 and it was a very close call.  So I decided to not take more chances like that because I didn't want anything bad happen.  So the same way, we did looks like he was going to, and then he stops in the middle, and then you be like in those situations, so I have to push the brakes and downshift to fourth.  When you do those things here, man, that's it.  The whole train passing by and obviously Gil passed  -- even if the gap was big, he was catching very fast and momentum was going, so that was the move of the race.  But  -- again, I was trying, trying, but unfortunately it very difficult to make a move.   
 
Q.  Helio, I wonder if you understand the tremendous positive impact that you are having on Formula Indy Racing, as it's called in Brazil, because everywhere I go, little children especially, and the women who are being attracted to Formula Indy because of your behavior, your conduct, your openness, graciousness, I am wondering if you are aware of that impact and whether you make an effort to fulfill it?
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES:  Not as much as here in America, especially here in Indianapolis.  I mean, the support of the fans was incredible.  Everyday on the track, everybody was always nice and asking autographs, want to take pictures and I enjoy those kinds of things.  As you guys saw, I was trying to go the whole place the same time is to make sure that we can make it even better.  This race is incredible.  It's not me, but it's been the tradition and the American people basically is doing those things because you guys kept such a live tradition, since 1911, and all of a sudden this race turns out to be just incredible.  You can ask every driver which race he wants to win and obviously it is this place here, this race.  It is incredible.  Unfortunately Brazilian people, I don't think they do know how big is this, how incredible this place is, so unless whole Brazil would come over here, but I don't think they will keep having the support of the American people.  
 
Q.  Think back to the final 6-lap shootout.  How hard were you trying to catch your teammate?
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES:  Well, hard enough.  I was to touch the cars and make the front stay right there.  Unfortunately, under those circumstances because you have dirty air in front of you, you try to avoid and try  -- it's difficult.  Extremely difficult.   Problem was, I don't think was just that, I was able to keep really, really close, but he was just flat out.  So unless some back marker or something like that happens, that was the only chance I would have.  And because of the yellow flags keep coming, I remember he took the lead around 30 laps to go and the yellows just keep coming keep coming, keep coming, basically nothing that I could do.  I wouldn't do a stupid move to not only myself but to him as well, which that's the first order.  If there is an order in our team, it's that, not hit each other, and I didn't want to do that for sure.  Again, there is nothing.  I could try everything and well, today was his day.  
 
Q.  Do you think the thing that kind of sets Roger Penske in this event apart is the fact that you had a chance to make history, but he's going to let you guys fight it out amongst yourselves?  Last September there was a race here that had a manipulated finish.  Talk a lit tle about that.
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES:  Roger is, as you know, he has a remarkable record here in Indianapolis, and everybody knows him as the fair game at least since I joined Team Penske, I have no trouble in terms of that.  And again, yes, if your team is doing much better than you in terms of like, he's 100 points ahead of you there is no interesting, you know  -- you are making one-point or two-points difference.  So basically we trying to play fair and basically it has been working very good, especially last year, we were fighting for the Championship until the last races and we didn't have any trouble in terms of that.  They are phenomenal people and they are very competitive out there.  They are so competitive, and in terms of the way that sometimes they are asking each other what lap they are going to pit.  They are like, well, tell me first.  Stuff like that.  But this is just the way it is. It was extremely fair way and that's why both cars always in the top.  
 
Q.  Gil has won championships but for this month there has been press conferences here where he was overshadowed, and the attention was on you, even one-on-one gatherings after the press conference.  Put that in perspective, if you would, just what it means from your observation and he was in tears after the race?
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES:  Yeah, I saw that.  Normally it is not Gil to come out like that did, he getting sensitive.  I hope he will slow down now.  (LAUGHTER).  But it is very good.  Gil is a great person.  People sometimes had not same judgment that I do have because that face or stuff like I am the professor or the way he speaks, obviously, he's not the same  -- we do not have the same personality, but when you wind him up, oh, man, I am telling you he can be worse than anybody here.  So and it is very nice he can show his emotions and that's the way it should be.  This is the place.  If you want to win a race this is the place.  It is very difficult to hold your emotion when you go to the podium.  I remember last year it's incredible to just keep holding, so, incredible  -- it is very nice to have that and I guess now I have to win the championship first to be right there.  
 
Q.  Was there anyplace on the track that you thought you could get Gil if it was going to happen, and talk about him on the restarts because he was consistent, all those yellows you talked about he just pulls you every time.
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES: Yes, for sure Turn 2 I was much better position, I was able to go flat out behind him and I do believe because Turn 1 you have to slow down because of the angle and stuff like that, and the restart it's so difficult because he does have same power as me, and pretty much obviously a different car, but I guess his gear ratios were a bit different and I under  -- I choose to be a little bit different because I knew what I need for the race and the only problem I believe was the yellow not coming up in the cashes that happened at the time of those yellows because that for sure slowed down the pace and basically the wear on the tires won't be so that bad, I mean, the fuel also in the tank basically kept remaining the same way so stuff like that, but believe it or not, especially when it was like 30 laps to go, make a huge difference, I mean, 30 gallons to 10 gallons, and that's where my car was really kicking butt.  So it was just  -- I guess it played against me and in his favor today.  
 
Q.  Could you tell me the balancing act you had to do when you crossed that finish line because you are a guy who has experienced nothing but happiness and joy here and then to not experience that for the first time and yet your teammate gets to, and can you just describe how difficult that was for you?
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES: Well, you have to understand second is not a bad place at all, but it's better than third, no doubt about matching the same experience that I had in two last year, and again I am very happy.  I am much happier   -- less upset that it is my teammate up there and not another person because obviously we finish one and two for sure the team is the one that got all the success.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a bit more on that theme of  -- how much  -- Gil wanted to win this race desperately.  How much do you think he's deserve this victory, and how difficult do you think it will be to adjust now after two years as the Indy 500 Champion and all the kudos that goes with that; how difficult will it be to not be the Indy 500 Champion?
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES: I will answer the first question, no doubt about having an accident like in Phoenix, broke his back or stuff like that, it is tough to coming back and especially in such a difficult track like this, no doubt about him, he deserve it.  I don't know if he deserve more than me, but he deserve it (laughs).  And no, I guess, it's natural, you can't just say, oh, okay, I didn't win the race, oh, my world is going to go down.  No, I have to keep working hard, race is races and sometimes you win and sometimes you lose and that's the fun part of this place.  So now we have a lot of race coming towards us, so we just hope we keep continuing what we just did because it was just incredible and I just hope capture what I was looking for, the Championship.  
 
Q.  Do you think if there hadn't been those late yellows you could have caught him?
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES: It's the same way if the yellow didn't come out last race or last year race if I would have finished or not.  It's one of those deals that you don't know.  For sure, I was extremely -- my car was extremely well balanced and we were right there so any mistake that would happen, for sure I would be  (inaudible) -- I spoke with Gil and he said, man, I was flat out.  I wasn't lifting for anything at all.  So actually I am glad that nothing more happened because we would probably be in a tough situation to go back to a place to look in Roger's face if something happened. 
 
Q.  You are one of several Brazilian drivers in this race.  What is Brazil doing to develop such great drivers like yourself?
 
HELIO CASTRONEVES: Well, especially this generation, let us put Gil a little ahead because he's older than us, let us put like myself, Tony, Felipe, (inaudible) all those drivers if I am not forgetting other one, we start very early in go-karts like 11, twelve years old, 16, 17 years old we're already actually having experience with open-wheel cars so all those mistakes that you might have, crashing the cars or having hard time getting up to speed or experience like you are leading and all of a sudden you crash, we already passed those situations and I guess because of that, when you got into a series like this, such a high speed and professional, you know, we adapt in a much better situation than people that does not have much experience.  So I don't know, if that answers the question or not, I am not sure, but that's what I thinking.  And again it's the same way if I go to a NASCAR or like IROC racing I am having a hard time over there, still trying to find how Mark Martin is not able to find the draft and go for it.  It's just incredible because my experience is not the same as open-wheel, so it's just a matter of you getting used to, and learn and then go for it.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT