U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2011
Kiyoshi Murota
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had the lead and you lost it. Tell us what happened? 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: My tee shot was going to the left side, and the second shot I was not so good at the second shot at the time. And I got over the green on 18, and it's very difficult, very sensitive chipping out there, so it was very tough to make a par at the time. 

 Q. That was 18? 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: 18, yeah. I made a double bogey at the time.

 Q. What about No. 8 where the ball went to the right on the shot close to the green? 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: You are asking about 8? 

 Q. No. 8 in the rough. 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: I just get out from the rough and keep it on the fairway. It's hard to hit it from that deep rough.

 Q. Did you know you had the lead after you made those mistakes? 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: My tee shot and the second shot were okay, but the last shot was not so good for me, so I tried to make a par with good chipping, but I didn't do that, unfortunately. 
 But this is the way it is, so...

 Q. Did you know you were in the lead, and are you disappointed with how you finished? 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: I didn't know I was in the lead at the time, but I was thinking about it at the time. And if I'm going to lead, I'm going to have to come over here and you'll interview me. So I got nervous and made a bogey and double bogey in the end.

 Q. You still had to come over here. 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: Oh, I don't know. So I thought with this score I didn't have to come over here, but I came over here anyway, so I don't know why I'm coming over here (laughing).

 Q. Does this course suit your game? 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: I don't know if this course is suited for my game, but this golf course is a very great golf course, and I tried my best one shot at a time. This golf course is very great.

 Q. How much did your fine play at Valhalla Senior PGA give you confidence to come to this major? 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: I got confidence at Valhalla. I was second at the time. There are no golf courses like this in Valhalla or in Japan. It's much different from Valhalla this course, too. So I tried to make every shot a good shot at the time. I love this golf course. It's very tough, but I love it.

 Q. Are you still confident despite the way you finished this round? Are you still confident despite the way you finished today? 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: My confidence is back to zero right now, unfortunately. But I'm laughing.

 Q. I'm curious if Tom Watson, who won Senior PGA, did he say anything to you complimenting you on your play? Did you talk at all about Valhalla afterwards? 
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: Unfortunately, I cannot speak English at all. If I can speak English, I would talk with him more and more. But I just said goodbye or hi or something like that at the time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT