SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 28, 2011
Kiyoshi Murota
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KELLY ELBIN: Kiyoshi Murota, in with a 74 in the third round of the 72nd Senior PGA Championship presented by KitchenAid. He is tied for the third round lead with Hale Irwin at 9-under par. Today we will have his interpreter as the translator. Your thoughts on the round today and still being tied for the lead going into the final round.   
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: My intention was to just play par golf today. And the weather was wonderful and the people are really super. However, I stumbled on number 11 and No. 12. Much to my regret.   
 KELLY ELBIN: In particular what, you made double bogey on No. 12. What happened on that hole, please.  
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: One of my shots was found on the grass, so there for it was very difficult for me to dig it out. And I didn't do a good job, so I ended up having a double bogey there.   
  
  Q. On the second shot it was the heavy rough there?  
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: Yes. Yes.   
 KELLY ELBIN: Let's open it up for questions.   
  
  Q. What happened to your back on the tee shot? Was it tweaked or was it a result of the club hitting his back?  
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: On the tee shot at number 15, when I swung, I felt a little twinge in my back and I was breathless. I was unable to breathe for a moment or two.   
  
  Q. And it is okay now?  
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: There is pain, a certain amount of pain, minor pain, and my plan is to go back to my hotel and apply ice packs. And I don't think it's necessary for me to be seen by a physician.   
  
  Q. Have you had back problems before?  
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: No, never. I never had it.   
  
  Q. On your second shot at No. 12, how far were you trying to hit that ball? I assume you could not try to reach the green.   
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: My hope was to hit it 50 yards, but what happened was I mishit it and there for it produced only 10 yards progress.   
  
  Q. You will go into the final round tied with Irwin, one shot ahead of Tom Watson, two legends of American golf, how do you feel being in this position with one round to go?  
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: I'm happy. I didn't do too well today. My putting had left something to be desired. But tomorrow is another day. I'm going to play the game of golf my own way. I don't care who is playing with me or before me or after me, I'm going to play Murota game, Murota golf.   
  
  Q. After the first round you said you were surprised, or after the second round you said there were two rounds to go. Are you surprised that you're in this position now going into the final round?  
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: I'm not surprised at all. How I do depends on how well I do. And in my mind I have done my best. So I'm not surprised by what I have been able to achieve. Tomorrow is another day, I'm going to do the best I can and I'm going to play Murota golf to the best of my ability.   
  
  Q. You're listed as a golf instructor in various places, I wonder if you're still involved as a golf instructor and how long you've been doing that and if you could tell us a little bit about that.   
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: I have not been teaching very much. I have no plan as of now.   
  
  Q. Regardless of what happens tomorrow, if you win or if you lose, would you like to play more golf in the United States or will it just be for Majors that you might play?  
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: I have no plan to really spend much time participating in different golf tournaments in the United States because of my family obligations. I can ill afford to be away from my family for the long length of time. Much to my regret.   
  
  Q. Do you have any problems with mud on the golf ball today on certain shots, since they played it down today?  
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: Only one shot I had a problem. Otherwise it was fine.   
  
  Q. Where was it?  
 KIYOSHI MUROTA: Second shot on number 10.   
 KELLY ELBIN: Kiyoshi Murota tied for the lead going into the final round of the Senior PGA Championship. Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT