CHEEZ-IT BOWL: OKLAHOMA STATE VS MIAMI
December 29, 2020
Jahfari Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Oklahoma State Cowboys 37, Miami Hurricanes 34
 Q. What were you able to fix there, I know they scored the 21 quick points but after that seemed like you guys came under control a little bit more.  What happened, I guess in the beginning that set you guys off-foot and then what did you do to get back on track?
 JAHFARI HARVEY:   Well, the defense came together.  We went back to our bread and butter, play calling wise, back to the basics and just played football.  That's what really got us going.
 Q. And for you personally, you did have a sack and a strip.  What did that mean to you?  Obviously playing behind Jalen and seeing those guys have success what did it mean to taste your own tonight and have a big play like that?
 JAHFARI HARVEY:   It was a blessing, definitely.  I been thinking about this since middle school, elementary, being able to get a sack, help the team, just a blessing.
 Q. Not just you but a lot of other defensive ends were thrown into bigger roles today.  Your thoughts on the other guys?
 JAHFARI HARVEY:   We were excited.  We put in a lot of work the last two weeks because we knew we had -- ready to get better and carry the boys into next year.
 Q. You brought up next year already.  Obviously this defense has some guys, some young guys like yourself that are going to look to be leaders here in the years to come.  What's your outlook for next year already and what are you planning to do to maybe step into that leadership role yourself?
 JAHFARI HARVEY:   Only thing we can, work harder, go harder every day.  Whole team is not satisfied the last couple games, so I feel like we need to get back to work.  We just need to come back, focus on next year.
 Q. What do you think you need to improve on individually for yourself?  You're going to be a big part of this team going forward.  When you look at your first two years what did you do well and what are you hoping to get better at going into next year?
 JAHFARI HARVEY:   My biggest focus is getting bigger and stronger.  You never stop improving.  I've got a high ceiling, so I can get better and stronger, faster.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT