ROGERS CUP
August 12, 2018
Henri Kontinen
John Peers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KONTINEN-PEERS/Klaasen-Venus   
6-2, 6-7, 10-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Henri, there was the first set and then there was the other two.  How did that match play out for you?  
HENRI KONTINEN: I think we saved the best for the last.  It was the best match we played so far.   
Unfortunately, couldn't close it in two, but maybe a little sweeter even this way since we almost lost it there.   
But I think we played great the first two sets and even the match tie-break.  So pretty happy with that.   
 Q.  What were you thinking in the tie-break, either close it out or suddenly falling behind?  
HENRI KONTINEN: Yeah, you've got to let it go.  I mean, we saved one match point yesterday.  They could have done it today.  But, yeah, you've just got to have a short memory in doubles.   
 Q.  You guys served very well.  Is that something you're pleased with?  
HENRI KONTINEN: Yeah, I think we served great.  Zero break points for them.  That means we're serving good and cleaning up well at the net.  So very pleased with that.  And also returning-wise we were creating chances.   
So all in all, a good match.   
 Q.  Can you carry some confidence ahead to next week and maybe even farther into the Open?  
HENRI KONTINEN: Yeah, I mean, obviously going into next week it's a nicer situation having played so well here.  But on the other hand, we start from scratch.  Different conditions, different tournament.   
So you've got to just reset and try to go again.   
 Q.  John, first thoughts on being able to win the Rogers Cup doubles title here?  
JOHN PEERS: Oh, it's great for us.  We've had an up-and-down year.  For us to come out and play the way we did, I think we've been building with a lot of confidence, especially I look back from when we played French Open.  We were playing some good tennis.  And I feel as though we've kept that going.  We may not have had the results we wanted to.   
But to be able to get it here at the Rogers Cup is great for us.  And as Henri said before, we played our best match of the tournament here today.  So it was great.   
 Q.  You've been playing together for the last couple of years.  What is the chemistry like between you two and what do you guys think you do so well on the court?  
JOHN PEERS: I think the chemistry has been a lot -- a big thing for us is we keep trying to enjoy it and keep trying to make our games better.  And we keep trying to challenge each other in terms of how we keep evolving and improving, I think is the key.  Because if you ever stop, other guys can go past you.   
So that's the biggest challenge for us, to keep improving and keep enjoying it is the basic thing.   
 Q.  Henri, to go up 5-4 in that tie-breaker third set you hit that shot and you were pretty excited about it after.  Just how huge was that shot in helping you win that tie-breaker?  
HENRI KONTINEN: What shot was it?   
 Q.  Forehand crosscourt.  You yelled pretty loud after.  
HENRI KONTINEN: Yeah, I mean, in a mini break, any point you get on the opponent's serve, especially with these lively conditions is big.  And the way we were serving, it's -- many times it's enough.  It wasn't.  They got it back.   
But, yeah, it's so small margins, every point is so big there.   
 Q.  And also, Henri, coming from Finland, not a whole lot of Finnish players on the tour.  What does it mean to you to be able to represent your country on the tennis scene?  
HENRI KONTINEN: Well, I don't think about it too much during the regular events.  It's Davis Cup that I really feel it.  I enjoy it a lot.  It's maybe the most fun weeks I have with tennis during the year playing with other Finnish boys.   
And, yeah, we've got a couple good young ones, and hopefully I'll get some company for dinners soon.   
 Q.  Bit of a funny question for doubles guys.  You've just been out there playing in those conditions.  Any idea how it might affect the singles final?  
HENRI KONTINEN: Well, like I said, it's lively out there.  Definitely when the sun is out, the ball bounces a bit more.  Who it favors, I don't know.  And I don't care.   
 Q.  This is your 10th consecutive final that you guys win.  What makes you so good in the finals?  
JOHN PEERS: We try to save the best for last each tournament and try to enjoy it and keep rolling with it.   
HENRI KONTINEN: Yeah.  Now you probably jinxed it by asking us that (smiling.)   
 Q.  What are you going to do to celebrate?  
HENRI KONTINEN: Have a beer and then go on our flight.  We're flying to Cinci tonight, so not much celebration.  Probably play Wednesday again there.  So, yeah, just keep going.   
JOHN PEERS: Enjoy it while we can, but yeah, back to work.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT