THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 16, 2017
Heather Watson
Henri Kontinen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MURRAY-HINGIS/Kontinen-Watson
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Was that a strange atmosphere?  It was lovely, but the fans could cheer for both sides.  Doesn't happen often at Wimbledon that we have a Brit on either side.
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, we were actually talking about that when we were receiving our trophies.  Last year it was about, I'd say, the same amount of people that were there last year.  Obviously they were really loud, a lot more involved because, you know, this year, as you said, having the Brits on both sides of the net, it was pretty neutral.
Q. How did it impact on you?
HEATHER WATSON: Uhm, I think, I mean, it's really fun to play in an atmosphere where the crowd's all for you.  But it was still so enjoyable to play today.  It was nice that both teams were getting a lot of support.
Q. What do you think was the difference today?
HEATHER WATSON: I think that I missed a few too many returns today.  Uhm, we had quite a few breakpoint chances.  I thought I got better with Jamie's serve as the match went on.  But still the lefty, quite spinny, I found quite tough.
They're a really tough team.  We knew that going in.  I thought Martina served particularly well today.  Jamie at the net is very good and very big.
Q. What do you think, Henri?
HENRI KONTINEN: Pretty much like Heather said.  4-4.  Okay, we broke them in the first, but other than that, didn't take our small chances which we had on their serve.  They took pretty much all the chances they had on our serve.
Yeah, both of them served well, so we didn't get into that many of their service games.  Yeah, small margins, like always in tennis, especially doubles.
Q. It's been an incredibly successful partnership so far.  Is it something you're hoping to rekindle again next year?
HEATHER WATSON: A strange feeling today, we haven't felt it yet together.  Hopefully we don't feel it again.  But I'd love to play with Henri again, and hopefully before next year.
Q. Something you might consider at other Grand Slams as well?
HEATHER WATSON: I haven't asked Henri yet, but I hope he says yes (smiling).
Q. The game in the second set where you put Jamie's serve under real pressure, that was a key point in the match, wasn't it?
HENRI KONTINEN: Yeah, it was.  It was probably the best chance we had on his serve.  There were a couple breakpoints at least.  He served a couple good ones there.  Yeah, played well under pressure.
Q. Heather, last year was a bit of a boost for you.  What is your feeling overall of the tournament?
HEATHER WATSON: It's been a great tournament all around.  I'm so happy to reach the final again with Henri in the mixed.  Very pleased with how my singles have gone over this whole grass court season.  I'm very happy and looking forward to some rest now.
Q. You had another great run here.  Will you consider playing more doubles throughout the year or is singles still the focus?
HEATHER WATSON: Singles will always be my focus.  But I definitely want to play more doubles.  I think now that my ranking is higher, I'm able to.  Uhm, and get a solid partnership with somebody.
Q. Can you tell us how difficult it is to juggle when you are on the men's doubles, seeded No. 1, then you play also the mixed?  How difficult was it physically?
HENRI KONTINEN: One day was tough, eight sets.  That was probably the only one.  Entering both events, you know it's a possibility.  Heather, three events, might be pretty rough days for her as well.
It's always something you take into consideration beforehand, but I enjoy it too much to skip it.  I'm sure I'll do it in the future, as well.
Q. Henri, are you looking to play the mixed doubles at the US Open and the Australian?  Will you play with someone else if Heather's ranking doesn't get there?
HENRI KONTINEN: I'll see.  Previously I've usually decided a day before.  Just how I feel.  With Heather, we decided earlier.  Hopefully Wimbledon is locked in for next year.  Other than that, I don't know yet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT