WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2002
Michel Kratochvil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Could we start in English.  
 
 
Q.  How devastated are you now?  You were always in the lead, you even had, if I'm not mistaken, two balls for 3-love in the last  -- in the fifth set.  How do you feel now about that? 
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  Yeah, I mean, obviously disappointed because I had him where I wanted.  You know, he was from the first game on, I had him really under pressure.  He felt the pressure.  I mean, first set, we both were really tight and I was serving for the first set.  If I win the first set, maybe everything changes.  I started really to relax a little more in the second, started playing better, especially in the tiebreak.  Played a very good tiebreak.  I felt good.  But one game slipped away from me in the third.  Was down, started raining.  But I knew, now I'm feeling better, now I can do something.  That's how I came out.  I was much more relaxed.  I played really well.  I don't think it's (inaudible), to be up 3-love in the fifth.  I think it was more the fourth set where I had my chances.  I was up a break.  I had him where I wanted.  I just, you know, I just didn't close the match.  I mean, I was not  -- of course I was nervous, but I was not nervous, you know, to have a chance to beat him and go to the quarters.  I was just nervous about the match, but not really.  Yeah, but anyway, I'm satisfied with my performance, second time on grass.  Without really serving great today I played a good match, I would say.  
 
Q.  What would you do differently?
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  You know, I was pretty careful about my serving and what I did on my service games.  When I was up, I should have maybe played a little bit more serve and volley, what I did at the end  - just changed things up.  But, you know, afterwards it's always easy to analyze.  I mean, I have to see the match on tape just to know.  But I think for my second Wimbledon and everything, you know  - I haven't played so many Grand Slams, and I think I'm, you know, going in the good direction.  Grass is not my favorite surface.  I think when I'm playing on grass already like this, I think there's a future, the future looks good.  That's what keeps my head up.  Because I'm playing good tennis and I'm beating the opponents I'm supposed to beat.  And, you know, against the big guys, I think I get really dangerous and I can get up there, which is good. 
 
Q.  Are you physically all right?
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  I'm physically all right, yeah.  That's also another thing, I haven't played too many five-set matches in my career yet.  I mean, this match I'm completely fine.  I could have played two more sets, no problem.  It just I was bleeding on my knee and I just wanted to stop the bleeding, that's all. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the special atmosphere. 
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  Yeah, that was unbelievable.  I mean, you know, it's really Henmania, they're really behind him, which is great.  The whole atmosphere, it's great to play, even if they're all for Tim.  It's a great atmosphere.  It's really nice to play a game like this.  Next week I'm playing at home in Gstaad.  I hope other people, they get close to something like this.  I wish it would be something like this.  I just try to let them feel the atmosphere at home. 
 
Q.  Do you think it's more difficult because it's Henman than another player?
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  It's a different story, you know, to play on a small court against unknown players.  To play Tim here, mentally, it's just way more tougher.  You have to concentrate more because when you give him a chance, he's gonna come back.  I mean, I had my chance to close the matches out.  He played well sometimes.  And sometimes maybe I gave him some easy points, that's why I regret it.  I think I'm a good way in my career.  That's what's important. 
 
Q.  Three double-faults in a row. 
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  You know, my serve is just not, you know, my biggest weapon.  And today, today the timing was off and the wind was all over the place.  Tim also had problems with his serve.  And it was just not easy.  But the way I played, how I was, including my serve, I think it was great.  The serve was not working at all.  But on grass to play a match like this, I think it was a great performance. 
 
Q.  Baseliners are doing really well in Wimbledon this year.  Is that a coincidence?  Is it related to the surface?  Is it slower out there? 
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  I mean, you know, I haven't played that much on grass like the last ten years.  It's been my second Wimbledon.  But I think, yes, the grass gets better.  The outside courts, I think Court No. 1 is quite  -- it's already quite used.  So we had many bad bounces.  But I think you can play, of course, serve and volley is the best game maybe on grass.  But the way I played it, you know, coming in after first or second shot, I think that's also a way how to play to return well.  But you have to come in.  You cannot just play from the back.  No way you gonna survive or have a chance to win the tournament or go far. 
 
Q.  Does it make things more difficult to close out the match as a baseliner?  I think Ferreira experienced some similar things.  He was always doing difficult ones, he had to pass right in the tight situations. 
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  I mean, I didn't see much.  But, you know, I can just speak for my match.  I was up two sets to one and a break up.  Obviously, you start to think a little bit.  But, you know, maybe I should have went for more and, you know... But it's tough.  I gave it all my heart.  I think it was a good show and a good match.  You know, I have to analyze the match.  I cannot tell so shortly after what I could have done better in these situations.  Of course I could have, you know, served three aces instead of hitting a double-fault.  But it's always easy to say.  But I returned well and I played a very good match.  So I'm happy with that and I'm happy the way my tennis is going, which is important.  
 
Q.  So you loved the atmosphere? 
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  Yeah, I mean  -- I mean, the more they screamed, I mean, I had to smile for myself.  They were all going for Tim.  I mean, it's great.  But the whole screaming comes to you as well and builds you up, I mean, even if they scream for Tim, that was lifting me on my toes as well.  That's what makes, you know, tennis or our sport, you know, so great.  You play in front of an atmosphere, play matches like this and win them obviously.  But also like this, it's a great experience.  I was happy the way I played my tennis and I think, you know, I'm in a good way.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT