WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2002
Michel Kratochvil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions. 
 
 
Q.  How would you assess today's match?  Was it good for you? 
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  I could give the same question back.  It was weird.  I mean, you know, I had a bad start.  It was just not me out there.  I was 4-Love down.  I got back, I got my rhythm in my first set.  I said, "Yeah, was good warm up, first set," and I had to start playing.  I started playing very well.  I won the second 6-Love.  I tried to get an early break in the third to get ahead of him, just to bring that match home easily.  But he played well.  I served for it, played a poor game at 5-4, was down 3-Love in the tiebreaker.  Yeah, I hung in there the whole match.  I was just fighting, playing point by point.  I didn't play perfect, but I won. 
 
Q.  What was the most important moment of the match?
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  The two tiebreakers.  That was the key.  Like I said, I was down 3-Love.  
 
Q.  He touched the net. 
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  Exactly, he served a double first of all.  Then he touched the net 3-1.  That was Christmas for me.  So I took that gift and I turned the match round.  Better said, I had two sets to one lead.  Fourth set, I was down 5-4, he was serving for it.  Somehow I knew I was going to break him there.  I played a very good game.  Tiebreaker again was close.  Yeah, like I said, I just hung in there every point.  I won the match today. 
 
Q.  What did you know before the match about him, his nickname and all stuff like this?
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  If I knew his nickname?  
 
Q.  He's called Freak Show. 
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  I knew he was a dangerous player.  We're more or less the same age.  I knew he could play very well, but I knew he's going to have some hangers.  I just said, "I'm going to hang in there, I'm going to try to play a steady game," which I didn't do so well.  Like I said, I was just fighting.  You know, that's why I won the game today, is because on the big points maybe I played a little bit better.  I was a little calmer than him. 
 
Q.  What is his reputation in the locker room?
 
MICHEL KRATOCHVIL:  In the locker room?  He's a good guy.  You know, I don't know him really, really well.  I know him as a funny guy and a good guy.  I know him on the court, you know, his potential is big.  You know, he can play well.  Maybe in the future he'll have even better results.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT