BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 4, 1998
Kevin Bannon
Geoff Billet
Eric Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH BANNON:  Well, that was a heck of a win, needless to say, for our program, something that I felt we really needed.  We had good guard play.  I think that was a real key for us.  We had good guard play, and I think our kids, we knew they'd make a lot of runs at us.  They are so deep and so talented, but we responded.  We had some ugly moments, but I think our guys got their acts together a number of times throughout the night.  And it was a game where we didn't even really shoot the ball well.  A couple of guys that normally shoot it well for us didn't make shots today.  But we just found a way to win and found a way to continue to fight them off.  The stats will show tons of rebounds for them, particularly offensive.  I thought we did much better now. They had 20 offensive rebounds.  They -- maybe they had 20 today.  I know we did a better job digging out defensive stops and not allowing them to get too many put-backs.  We are not the biggest and most physical team in the world, but I think our guards really helped and good defense throughout the night.  And, as I said, good guard play.  So, it is important.  I think these guys really need this.  This  is our third win over a Top 25 team this year and, you know, these guys, we have had a hard time keeping it going.  We have done a lot of nice things, but I think because of our lack of size and our lack of depth, we have really had a hard time maintaining a certain level of play.  And I think would have been a real shame if this one -- we didn't win this game and we went home.  I think it is not enough for these days for what they have done this year.  So, here we are.  And I couldn't be happier for a group of guys that have really given me everything this year and deserve this. 
 

Q.  This is your first year as the coach and it is the first time Rutgers has beaten top ranked opponents in the year.  How does that feel for you to accomplish those in your first year?
 
COACH BANNON: It feels great.  The biggest thing with me, I said all along, we just want to show some progress.  That was the most important thing this season.  I don't know what that progress was going to be.  I just told the guys if you act and play a certain way, we will make progress.  I think you see it now.  And I just told them in the locker room that you keep it going, because this is what happens in conference tournaments, you just never know.  You just take something to a certain level -- we can play better than we played together.  And, who knows, that is what these guys have to get to believe over the next 24 hours.  
 

Q.  How about the team actually not having to wear a white jersey to win a game, it is pretty cool; first for you guys?
 
COACH BANNON: Whatever we have to do.  I have been there before building programs and having low seeds and trying to do something.  So if we have to wear the black uniforms throughout, that is good, and we will be the villains or whatever, so that is fine. 
 

Q.  It seemed like West Virginia decided to change the tempo with that full court press to start the second half, get you guys into some quick shots without anybody under. Were you happy with that?
 
COACH BANNON: It scared me to death.  That was not the way we wanted to start the second half.  The game got too fast, and we made some errors.  And we just didn't look ready to play.  The fact that we survived, that was an amazing feat on these guys' part, because they did what they had to do. They got the game fast.  Their press became more effective. I thought our shot selection suffered and our -- we turned the ball over a few times.  But, there was three or four points in the second half I just felt where our guys, you know, got it together got their composure together and survived.  And shooting fouls as poorly as we did tonight and winning also is an amazing accomplishment.  If we have to go outside, we are  going to shoot fouls, I will tell you that. 
 

Q.  You made two big runs at the end of each half to take control of the game.  Second half 50/50 again you made a surge --
 
COACH BANNON: Well, I think you can attribute those surges to, again, good guard play.  I thought our guys found each other very well, handled their pressure most of the night very well.  And, you know, when you have two point guards, who could handle the ball and really see the court. That really helps as well.  I think, you know, we have some weaknesses.  But one of our strengths is perimeter play.  We play basically almost four guards a lot of the time.  That is why pressure hasn't bothered a lot this year.  A lot of other things have, but not pressure.  So when they extend it like that, we just talked a lot about confidence and playing with confidence. 
 

Q.  Only played Georgetown once this year, you beat them very big at home.  What did you do so well in that game that you will try to bring in tomorrow?
 
COACH BANNON: Well, I think it was one of those -- we have been a good home team this year, and I think it was -- you know, not to take anything away from these guys, but I think it was a real tough stretch, a time when Georgetown was getting their act together.  They really struggled.  We  got up on them and they really had a hard time.  They just seemed to be, like, reinventing themselves at that particular time in the season.  So while we did play very well, I think they also were playing new guys and new matchups and doing a lot of new things.  So I know that the team we play tomorrow is -- you know, is a totally different team than we played. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about how badly you didn't want it to be your last game.
 
ERIC CLARK: This game means a lot to me, simply because I really didn't want it to be my last game.  And also, we had never won a game in the tournament.  So, coming into it, I really wanted to come in and put forth my best effort to try and keep us for tomorrow's game.  I think with the way myself and my teammates played tonight, that is a great example of how when we put our minds to it, we can go out and accomplish almost anything. 
 

Q.  Eric, how difficult is it to play a team like that? So many fresh bodies coming in underneath, big bodies, how difficult is that for you?
 
ERIC CLARK: It wasn't too difficult.  You just need to know who you had and what player was good at what.  But it always seemed like they had fresh bodies going after rebounds, and I think that is one of the reasons that they  are such a good team, is that they can continue to bring in great rebounders off the bench.  And they can continually crash the boards. 
 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about at halftime you had the 7 point lead, they come out, they make the run, take the lead, you guys show a lot of composure getting it back.  Talk about getting the lead back in the second half.  Did you do anything differently?
 
ERIC CLARK: Well, I definitely told Earl that we just have to kind of control the tempo of the game. If you were watching, you saw West Virginia, they wanted to push it up and down, trying to get us running the gun.  And I told Earl that we have to control the tempo, because right now we were the ones in control of the game, and they were trying to get us out of our game and trying to run with them. 
 

Q.  Geoff, can you tell me what was the approach that you all had for this ballgame tonight?
 
GEOFF BILLET: I think we were a little disappointed after we lost our last game to Villanova, so we wanted to come in here and, you know, put forth a really good effort. We felt we played West Virginia pretty close and lost a close game.  A lot of people were saying this was probably the worst pick for us, worst matchup we could have had.  We didn't feel that way because we played them tough at home and we have played them tough the last couple of years.  We were  confident coming in, and we knew if we did a good job on the boards it would come right down to the end.  That is what happened. 
 

Q.  What does this mean for you to get this today and then to have a chance tomorrow?
 
GEOFF BILLET: It's a great feeling.  First two years here we lost both times first round.  So, it is something new now to look forward to a game playing back-to-back days, and playing at The Garden another day, it is real -- I mean, it is a great feeling.  Best feeling, you know, I have had since I have been here.  Hopefully we can keep it going tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Geoff, you seemed somewhat hesitant maybe in the first half.  You started the second half to take the outside shot.  Did anybody say anything to you or did you just take it upon yourself to --
 
GEOFF BILLET: I think they played -- teams have been guarding me very closely for the 3 point shots.  So I don't like to force too many shots up.  First half I was trying to penetrate trying to find my teammates.  And then I knew if I just kept working hard, that sooner or later I would get a couple of open looks.  And I knew that especially when -- after they made their run in the second half, I had to step up and I had to put some points up.  I was able just to get free and, you know, and I was able to knock down the shots.  
 

Q.  You talked about playing consecutive days.  Talk about what problems Georgetown presented to you.
 
GEOFF BILLET: I think Georgetown, obviously you have to start with their pressure defense.  They pick up full court and they are going to just try to wear you out.  Also, they are a great offensive rebounding team.  So I think those are two keys to the game, probably.  Their guards pressuring us, they are going to be in our face the whole day. 
 

Q.  Do you guys feel that you outhustled and outworked them tonight?
 
GEOFF BILLET: I think we did a very good job getting a lot of loose balls, rebounding Eric.  Sometimes he is bolting, it looks like, in there with 3 guys, him coming up with the rebounds.  I mean, the whole team, we -- I don't know if we outhustled them, but we probably got more of the hustle plays.  I play West Virginia obviously are a great team and they played hard, but we were very active today and we really wanted to win this game. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT