NHL DRAFT
June 30, 2013
Bo Horvat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was it like knowing that Vancouver traded to get you?   Did you know? 
BO HORVAT:   No, I had no idea, but anything can happen on draft day, and I'm just‑‑ I'm over happy to be a part of the organization.   It's an amazing organization, and I just can't wait to get there and show them what I've got. 

Q.   It surprised a lot of people in Vancouver that you were traded for Cory Schneider.   Were you just as surprised as anybody when I heard the news?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, I was definitely surprised.   It was shocking sitting there, but like I said, anything can happen, and it's really humbling that they traded a guy that high for me, and I'm just really, really happy to be a part of the organization.

Q.   Talk a little bit about the type of player you are.   I know you were the MVP of the OHL Playoffs.   Obviously the points speak for themselves. 
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, definitely.   I'm a two‑way centerman that you can put out there in any key situation, a big draw at the end of the game or be on the penalty kill, power play, so I was kind of like the everything guy this year on the Knights, and I hope to continue that through my hockey career.

Q.   Do you feel you're close to being NHL ready?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, definitely.   I think there's definitely things I have to work on, maybe on my skating a little bit.   But other than that I think I'm ready. 

Q.   The Canucks have talked a lot about getting younger and playing younger players.   Does that surprise you? 
BO HORVAT:   Definitely.   John Tortorella is a great coach, and they're a great organization.   To hear that, it just gets even more exciting.   I'm just going to be ready to go for training camp, and I just can't wait to get there.

Q.   Do you feel any additional pressure being part of a team like that to perform quickly?
BO HORVAT:   I don't feel any pressure actually.   I think it's more exciting than anything.   I'm just happy to be part of the organization, and like I said, I can't wait to get there and show them that I can be that guy that they picked. 

Q.   You've played against a few different Canucks prospects.   Do you feel you'll be leaning on them for a little bit of advice? 
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, maybe.   I'm not really too close to them, but I played against them, and they're great players in our league that I've played against.   So yeah, definitely.   I'm going to have to get in touch with them and see what to expect. 
I think, like I said, they're great players, and maybe I can get some advice from them.

Q.   Talk about the whirlwind aspect of draft day.   Do you kind of step back and go, whoa, what's happening here?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, definitely.   It's kind of overwhelming hearing that.   But other than that I think I'm more excited than anything.   Just to hear that I've been a part of that trade and to be part of the organization now, it's an unbelievable feeling, and like I said, I can't wait to get out there and prove that I can be a part of the Canucks' organization.

Q.   Did you know that they were trading up to get you?
BO HORVAT:   Actually I had no idea.   It was all a shock to me.   But like I said, anything can happen on draft day, and to be part of the organization and to hear my name being called, it's every kid's dream, and my dream came true today, and I'm really happy about it.

Q.   What has it meant to have played in London?
BO HORVAT:   It's unbelievable.   Yeah, it's a great organization, definitely I think the best in the CHL.   The Hunters are great guys, and they've developed me a lot through my junior career, and they run an unbelievable organization in London, and I'm very happy to be a part of that organization.

Q.   Does it help sharing this experience with a few of your teammates who are also being drafted today?
BO HORVAT:   Oh, definitely.   I'm actually keyed in to all the guys getting drafted tonight.   They're unbelievable hockey players, and it's been a privilege to play with them through my junior career, and I'm going to be happy wherever they go. 

Q.   Who else shared in this experience with you?
BO HORVAT:   I've actually got 80 people here from my friends and family.   I think that might be a record, but I've got a great supporting cast from all my family and back home in Rodney where I'm originally from, all the people there giving me tons of support.   So I'm really thankful for them.

Q.   Did you have a wager or anything going with Max on who would go first?
BO HORVAT:   No, no wager.   We're great friends, and we're definitely just excited for each other, and no matter where we went we were going to be happy for each other. 

Q.   (Inaudible) kind of a healthy competition last year to see who could one up the other?
BO HORVAT:   Maybe not so much competition, maybe a friendly competition here and there.   We'd joke around who was going to go where.   But other than that we were all happy for each other, and no matter what happened we were going to be happy for each other no matter where we went.

Q.   Do you feel like the Playoffs are kind of where you put your name on the map because there was all this attention paid to the team all year long?   What was that experience like, kind of really exploding during that time?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, definitely.   I thought‑‑ I think I wanted to bring my game to another level in the Playoffs, just help my team win, and to me that was the most important thing.   We had a great team, and I just wanted to do whatever I could to help my team win and help us get another OHL championship.

Q.   With those two championships and the Memorial Cup final mixed in and the accolades, has the past year kind of seemed like a whirlwind?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, it's been a crazy past two years.   It's been a long past two years.   Not too many kids can say they've been to two Memorial Cups in a row in the first two years, so I'm really fortunate that way, to have been on great teams.   Yeah, definitely it's been an unbelievable experience there in London.

Q.   Do you have a leg up with all that experience and maybe fast tracking your career?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, I think so.   You know, the pressure and what it takes to get to the next level and to go against all the top players in different leagues and stuff like that, so you know what it takes to, like I said, get to the next level, and I think I might have a leg up on some guys.

Q.   Did you have a second interview with the Canucks or anything at the combine?
BO HORVAT:   No, actually I just had the interview at the combine and that was it.   But yeah, other than that I'm just really happy to be a part of it.

Q.   So the shock value is genuine?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, exactly.   Everything just piled on top of each other.   No, but that's all in the past, and I'm just really happy to be a part of the organization.

Q.   What about your game per se?   What do you think you do best?
BO HORVAT:   I think I'm really good on my draws and my positioning in the D zone, but I can also put up some points, as well.   So I think all those attributes that I have are really going to help me win in Vancouver and show them what I can do best. 

Q.   Is there a sporting lineage in your family at all?
BO HORVAT:   My dad played a little Junior B hockey and a little pro, but other than that it's just been me.

Q.   What's his name?
BO HORVAT:   Tim Horvat.

Q.   Do you know much about the Canucks?   Do you understand what their needs may be?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, I've watched them quite a bit actually.   You watch them at night because we're in Ontario.   They're a great organization, a great team, and definitely I think I can be a huge help to them, and hopefully I can be what they need.

Q.   Are you a Leafs fan?   It's okay, you can admit it. 
BO HORVAT:   Maybe not per se, but no, definitely I really didn't have a favorite team actually all growing up.   No matter where I went I was going to be happy.   To be a Vancouver Canuck is just unbelievable.

Q.   Did you play any other sports growing up?
BO HORVAT:   No, I played a little bit of soccer, but not for very long.   I try to get a little bit of golf in here and there, but other than that it's just strictly hockey.

Q.   Did you have players you admired if not a team?
BO HORVAT:   I've always liked Mike Richards.   He's been one of my favorite players for a long time.   I watched him all growing up playing kitchen and junior and all that stuff, so he's probably been one of my favorite players.

Q.   What's your actual hometown?
BO HORVAT:   Rodney, Ontario.   That's 45 minutes west of London.

Q.   Is there some lineage in terms of the one kid from (inaudible)?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, he's actually my second cousin.   He's also a great hockey player and he has a bright future.

Q.   So there's some connection?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, exactly, that's right.   He's going to be a good hockey player to come.

Q.   What's your mother's name?
BO HORVAT:   Cindy.

Q.   Do you have brothers or sisters?
BO HORVAT:   I have a younger brother named Cal.

Q.   How old is Cal?
BO HORVAT:   He's 15.

Q.   Does he play?
BO HORVAT:   Yeah, he plays.   He's actually in his draft year for the OHL.   Yeah, he should be good.

Q.   What do your parents do?
BO HORVAT:   My mom is a hairdresser, and my dad is a salesman for an insulation company. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT