NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 19, 2010
Mickael Pietrus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Mickael, what's the mood like with you guys today? 
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: The mood, it's not going to be perfect. The mood is not going to be there, but you still have to believe that even though you are down 2-0, it's not over. I mean, it's going to be hard. We've been through that situation before where we're down 2-0 in the final, and we finally got ourselves back together and win a game. 
 What it takes is just one game, and we will look forward to play better and try to win games. 

 Q. You guys won a Game 7 up there last year. You won there twice during the regular season. Does that give you comfort to know you can win there? 
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: We are a pretty good team. The only thing I know, we can play on the road. What we done last year was last year. The way we've been playing the last two games is over with. It's how are we going to come back the next two and try to even up the series. Because we had such a great season, we don't want it to slip away like that so fast. 
 We still have to give everything we have and we still want to -- in our mind we still have enough time to win a championship. 

 Q. Are they playing a lot better than they did in the regular season? Have they really come together as a team? 
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: They have a lot of experience. They won a championship two years ago. And they have a lot of veteran guys. So you have to give them respect from the regular season to the playoffs. 
 It is what it is. A tough team to beat. A great team. Their defense is great. Just up to us to go out there and win. 

 Q. Do you need to be on the court more? 
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: I have no idea. I don't know. 

 Q. Probably would like to be. 
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: Like everybody, I would love to be. But I don't have any control who going to be on the floor. The only thing I can control is try to help my team and try to do the best I can to even up the series and try to get the championship. 

 Q. Thank you. 
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: You're welcome. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT