NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 5, 2009
Mickael Pietrus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICKAEL PIETRUS: It's important to win every game, and I think that it's going to be a long series. Hopefully we're going to come out on Sunday and compete and play the way we can play. We didn't shoot the ball extremely well, and I think that we were looking for some confidence. But I think if we come out focused, anything can happen. 

 Q. You were the one guy that (inaudible.) Did you find some shots? Is there something you guys can do against their perimeter defense? 
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: I think that we have to move the ball better. I think that we have so many shooters that can make shots, and when you lose a game, you can always find something to say about the loss. But I think that we watched tape, we know what we have to do now to beat them. It's not going to be easy. We're going to have to fight all the way through and make some adjustments defensively, and hopefully we'll be in better shape Sunday. 

 Q. Offensively shooting 29 percent, is that their defense? 
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: I don't think it's us, so I think if we look at it, I think we took a lot of tough shots, especially in the paint, and hopefully we're going to come out and have more energy.

 Q. Do you think you're going to need to double up Kobe? Obviously it worked against LeBron, you won that series. Yesterday he didn't really have to exert a lot of energy, almost like you gave him a free pass. 
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: No, I think he's a legend, so he knows how to create his own shots, how to get his team going, and I think that he came out focused because from last year once they lost the final against Boston, he knows how important it is to get a good start and make sure that his team is on the right track. 
 We're going to make some adjustment about Kobe Bryant, and they still have Pau Gasol, Bynum and Lamar Odom who's been terrific throughout this playoff, coming off the bench and giving them the extra rebounds. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT