NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 3, 2009
Mickael Pietrus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What is it like for you guys to be here?  
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: We got experience from the Philly series when we lost the first game, and I think since then when we beat Boston in Game 7 we really had a lot of game for the Cleveland series, and I think we played extremely well. But we have to take our game to the next level because Thursday is the NBA Finals. It's never been easy, and obviously we play a great team, the Lakers with Kobe Bryant, so it's going to be a great series.  
  
  Q. The talk about Jameer coming back, are you guys just thinking whatever happens, happens?  
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: No, it's always good to have an All-Star point guard. I think he hasn't played a lot of games this year, so we're not expecting great things from him. But it's always good to have your teammate on the bench supporting you. He's going to be a big part of what we do this year in the NBA Finals. I think it's like a dream come true for him and every one of us.  
 So it's good to have him.  
  
  Q. Talk about your match-up against Kobe.  
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: It's going to be a tough match-up. He was MVP last year, he's a great player. He's going to be tough. So hopefully I'm going to do the best thing that I can to have my team win the basketball game and hopefully win the match-up, but I'm not going to stop him. Hopefully they're going to let us play, and it's going to be a good series.  
  
  Q. Is there a familiarity from your Golden State days with him a little bit?  
 MICKAEL PIETRUS: You know, I've been in the West for five years, so I'm not going to tell you that I know how he plays, but he gets better every year. I think the only thing I can do is try to minimize his touches in the fourth quarter, try to make him go to somebody else and try to do the best job I can to try to help my team.  
 He's Kobe Bryant; I wish I could have that name. But it is what it is, and I'm very happy for both teams to be in the NBA Finals. It's going to be good match-ups.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT