NIT SEASON TIP-OFF
November 24, 2006
Mark Few
Josh Heytvelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK FEW:  Well, I thought Butler did a great job tonight.  They outplayed us in any facet and every facet that I can possibly think of involved in basketball, and definitely deserved to win that game.  They executed better offensively, played harder on defense, and played tougher than us inside.  Just did a great job of getting the right people the right shots.   
  
  Q.  Their ball rotation especially the first half got them some open looks?   
 MARK FEW:  Yeah, we covered it, short preparation, they are hard to prepare for.  The way they came out, they had a much better approach than we did.  They were the aggressor from the tip.  They were much more aggressive than us.   
 Usually the most aggressive team is going to win and they were definitely more aggressive.  So I think that allowed them to get better shots on offense and obviously frustrated us at the other end.   
  
  Q.  When Josh picked up that second foul early, how did that affect the way -- he just couldn't do as much in the first half.   
 MARK FEW:  Again, I didn't like our approach at all from any of our players inside or outside.  I thought they were a lot more aggressive than we were, and that led to some frustration I think.   
 Looking around for some help, and any time you're like that, that's not a good thing.  And again, all the credit goes to Butler.  Those kids are tough, they are really, really smart and they don't force things.  They really know how to play basketball.  They play the right way and they share it and they move it.  When the right guy is open, they take a shot.   
  
  Q.  What did the two fouls do to you as far as your approach, and what was the difficulty as far as the halfcourt game attacking defense?   
 JOSH HEYTVELT:  Two fouls took me out of the game right at the beginning.  Didn't really change my mindset at all.  It was a lot different game after the North Carolina game after that happened.  I knew we just had to try to just play our game.  Butler did a great job on defense and offense and how they executed.  So I don't think those two fouls really affected the game because Butler just came out firing, and they beat us.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT