WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL D
March 9, 2017
Chris Colabello
Francisco Cervelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I want to ask both players, debuting against México, in this group, is it better than facing another rival?  
FRANCISCO CERVELLI: Well, yes, I think it's beautiful to be here.  This is going to be like a winter ballgame, a lot of music, a lot of -- you see that.  That's what we like.  We're thinking only one thing, winning.   
 Q.  Edgar González said that Mexico has the best pitching in this group.  Do you see that?  
CHRIS COLABELLO: I think that every team is good here, and they have good pitchers, and they are good teams.  Everybody has good pitchers here in this group.   
 Q.  What's your opinion about this?  
CHRIS COLABELLO: I believe that, yes, he's right.  They are really good pitchers.  You cannot deny the quality of the players.  A lot of things can happen here, and the papers will say one thing, but let's wait for the results.   
 Q.  Do you think you are the weakest link in this group?  
CHRIS COLABELLO: That's good.  That way they are not as prepared against us.  We are facing teams that have the best players in the world.  We cannot hide anything like that.  We came to play ball.   
 Q.  Why is it that you and Francisco wanted to represent Italy in the Classic?  
CHRIS COLABELLO: Venezuela called me in 2009.  I don't think it's ethical at this point because Italy opened the doors when I was just in the Minor Leagues.  I am grateful to them and that's why I've come here.  Of course I am Venezuelan, my blood is Venezuelan, but in this tournament I am wearing Italy's uniform, and I'm proud of it.   
 Q.  Mexican fans are very (inaudible).  How do you manage that?  
CHRIS COLABELLO: Well, I think it's important that the teams that are here, they play a lot of games.  It doesn't matter the teams from other places.  Our job, we have to -- we are not going to try to worry about the other team.  If we are going to play the way we can, we can defeat anybody, and this is the mentality that we need to have, especially here.  This might be that group, but if you want to win the tournament, you have to play against all these teams and defeat them, so it's better to play today.   
 Q.  Is it an advantage to have somebody to tell you about the Mexican players?  
CHRIS COLABELLO: It is an advantage.  It's a very, very competitive league.  These are very good players for us.  It's an advantage.  Besides this man here, the power that they have, and I believe that one of the keys here is --   
 Q.  Marco, your manager, is about to retire.  Can you talk about your relation with your manager?  Obviously he has won a lot of championships.  How do you compare him with somebody in the Major Leagues?  
FRANCISCO CERVELLI: What happens is I wouldn't compare any manager, period.  Each one of them has his own characteristics, and I believe Marco -- not only for me but for a lot of people, besides being my friend, it's somebody for which it doesn't matter.  Four years ago, he talks to us, he comes to visit us.  I have a very beautiful relationship with him, with our families, and that's why we are here.  I love the fact that there is a very important card to play Italy, and we're trying to make it happen in Italy for the sport to change in the future.  I don't want to be considered the weakest.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT