THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
July 16, 2020
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Jordan was in here earlier and said he mentally prepared for the day like it was a major round knowing there were going to be some ups and downs.  Do you kind of do the same thing?
 LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, totally.  Ran into Furyk before we played and said, yep, it's going to be one of those grinders.  But yeah, you know here as precise as you've got to be with everything, the way the greens are perfect and fast, any wind is going to just totally emphasize execution.  It was one of those preps before the round where it was going to be a grind.  We knew it.  You know, hit a lot of good shots.
 Q. They're blowing up the course on Monday to start over pretty much it sounds like.  Are you getting the feeling that they're just going to let it go the rest of the week?
 LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, but in a good way.  Why not?  You know, that's what it's set up for, I think.  Firm, fast conditions, which we usually don't get when we're normally here, so let's do it if we can.
 Q. You've been really consistent since the restart, I think top 25s in every start.  What's clicked for you and where do you think your game is trending?
 LUCAS GLOVER:   Made a little putter change, went from the arm lock long putter back to the short one and feel good with it.  Just been making a pile of birdies.  First couple weeks back out shot myself in the foot with some big numbers and kind of tidied that up the last couple and had a good week off last week, and I just -- I know if I'm rolling it good, I can make putts here.  I seem to read the greens well, and I like it here.
 Q. This is a normal stop on your schedule, but if you look at your results here I think you have one top 10 in your first start.  Why do you keep coming back?
 LUCAS GLOVER:   That's great.  I don't know.  I like it.  It's one of those that if you're in, you play in my opinion, as a thank-you to Mr. Nicklaus.  It would be a really good one to play well in.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT