TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2009
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Lucas Glover to the interview room here at the Travelers Championship. What's changed?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: A lot, other than, well -- just a busy day. Busy 48 hours, 36 hours whatever since the last putt dropped. It was a whirlwind taking care of everything at Bethpage Monday evening. Then had a great day yesterday. One of the greatest, but most tiring days of my life in New York City. It was great.   
 Tour had a lot of stuff set-up, and did Regis and Kelly and Letterman, and four or five radio shows over the phone in between trips. It was quite a day. It was a good time. Then got up here last night, and actually got some sleep. So I feel pretty good today.   
  
  Q. Has the win, has it had a chance to sink in based on the activities you've been through the past 48 hours in?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it has. It has. You know, I'm not -- I don't crave the attention that I got yesterday. But it was there, and it was really fun. I don't think I could do that every day. But it was a good time. Jennifer and I had a great time yesterday, and we're starting to enjoy it.   
 It sunk in a little more on on the range when a lot of guys came up to shake hands and say their peace. It was great. It was very cool.  
 THE MODERATOR: Based on that tight schedule, we'll go ahead and open it up for a few questions. We are going to have to keep the interview to 15 minutes, but we'll take some questions at this time.   
  
  Q. Did you ever consider not coming here? Because that's happened before when guys have won a major and not come the next week?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, sir. I was committed before the U.S. Open. I was committed to here next weekend, John Deere, I'm going to keep those commitments. I feel that's the right thing to to do. Just because I won a golf tournament doesn't change anything. I was committed, and I'm going to honor that commitment.   
  
  Q. At what point did you feel you had a chance to win the tournament?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, I played probably the round of my life that second round to get in contention. The third round, I played pretty well on the back nine to get some momentum. And middle of the back nine, I thought if I kept doing what I was doing, I would be there in the end.   
 Never did I think if I keep doing what I'm doing I'm going to win. It's if I keep doing what I'm doing I'm going to be there and have a chance to win. That's the bottom line, and that's what kept my focus. It was not planning on winning, it was having an opportunity to.   
  
  Q. Share some of the stories on the range from guys coming up to you?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: It was just, you know, I've been out here, this is my sixth year, and I made a lot of friends. A lot of them just came up and shook my hand, couple of them gave me a hug. First place I went was right into the Nike trailer, and told those guys thanks and gave them some hugs.   
 One of the first people I saw walking down the hill was Charles Warren, and we were teammates at Clemson, and that was a big hug. That was great. There were 12 or 15 guys, caddies, reps from all the companies, it was wonderful. It was very gratifying.   
  
  Q. Where's the trophy right now? And the adjustment you're going through, mentally and physically to get you in step to a regular tour stop up here the following week?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: The trophy is in Hartford right now. I'm just kidding. I think mentally I'm tired. But I had yesterday, and I've got today. I know I've got the Pro-Am today. But to kind of get the juices back going, I guess would be the right term. Physically I feel fine. Last week was one in a row. It was my first one out. This is two. Physically I'm okay. Mentally I'm going to have to focus a little harder, because I'm tired up top.   
 But I've got tonight. Luckily I'm late tomorrow. So I'll have a nice dinner tonight, early to bed, and then get up in the morning, and probably come out early and do some practicing, and some short game work because I'm not going to be able to do that today with the rain and what not. But it's just going to be good to get back to what's normal for me, and that's playing golf.   
 Yesterday was very different for me, and very eye opening to what some people go through a lot, so I'm looking forward to getting back to work.  
  
  Q. Yesterday you said with everything that happened, what was the most enjoyable part of the day? We saw the pictures of you posing on top of the empire state building with the trophy?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: That was very cool. Each thing was very different. So I don't want to rank them one ahead of the other.   
 But Regis and Kelly was great. Carol was there, not Kelly but it was great. But the Empire State Building, we were on the 103rd floor. It got mentioned not many people have been up there, but it's not open to the public. That was really neat. That was pretty wild to see those views.   
 And then all the radio interviews were fun, there were some guys that I listened to growing up, and I got to do their show, that was really cool.   
 Jim Rome, I was a clone I guess is what they call his listeners in college. I listened to him a lot. And letterman was great. I didn't get to spend much time with Dave, but got a handshake and got to read the Top 10. So that was really nice. I don't want to rank them, because they were all so different. But also they were all fun, and it was neat.   
  
  Q. Is it nice to just worry about golf for two hours than anything else?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yes, sir. It will. If I had a couple of guys that have been in my situation tell me through text messages and voice mails or even this morning that the best thing you can do right now is play, because that is the only sense of normalcy I'll have for a little while.   
 You know, I'm planning on doing that. But, I had commitments and I'm going to honor those.   
  
  Q. You expressed your fondness for New York, what feeling do you have for the New England area?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I like it up here, too. I have a lot of friends up here. And you know, I think I've only missed this tournament once in my six years. Hadn't had super success here, but I like the golf course, and I like the area. Good food, good people. So I'm looking for a good week.   
  
  Q. Who were past champions that have talked to you? I know Stewart said the best thing you can do is go back inside the ropes. Who has texted you?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Zach said something to me in the locker room. He said best thing you can do right now is play. And I agree with him, because that's what's normal to me. Jerry Kelly, got a call from Jerry. Jerry's great. He's been a good friend for a long time. So, a lot of different people.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about the changes now in your golfing future? You're set up with a lot of exemptions now for a long time. It's a nice comfort zone you have for a long time.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Exactly. I get to set my schedule a little more solidly, I guess would be the right word. I get to do that for the next few years. That's nice. It's something that I think we all work for is to be able to play the big tournaments with the best fields and play when and where we want.   
 But that being said, I've got to use last week as a spring board. I've said this the last couple of days and as a motivation. I don't want to fizzle out after two wins or after one big win. I want to use that as motivation to keep getting better and back in that situation.   
 I'm not planning on winning five majors in the next four years. I'm planning on getting back into contention. And to do that, I'm going to have to keep working because everybody else is. Just because I won one, doesn't mean I deserve to be there again. So I'll use it as motivation, and only thing that's going to change is that I'm in those events.   
  
  Q. Expectations for this week?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I don't know. I haven't thought that far ahead to be honest with you. I'm still finishing up the whirlwind. I'll see how I play today and see what I need to work on in the morning. But I expect to play well. I'm not going to think as hard as I've been working and as well as I've been playing, it would be foolish not to expect to play well.   
 That being said, I can't get my expectations too high. I hate the saying, but it's true, one shot at at time. Same mindset as last week, be patient, and, you know, see how many birdies I can make.  
  
  Q. Will you be keeping the trophy here, bringing it back?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Actually my wife's flying home today to take care of some things home and she's going to take it home.  
  
  Q. Does the trophy have a first class seat?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: You could say that, yes, sir.   
  
  Q. How are the negotiations going with your caddie?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. That's in his court. That was his deal a couple of years ago. He just told me in the car one day he said, all right, next one I'm buying a vet. So I'll leave that to him. I'm not going to hold him to it unless he just wants to.   
 But it was the first thing that popped into my head after that putt went in. I saw Coop standing there and said you owe me, pal. So hopefully it will work out for him. But if it doesn't, that's fine, too.   
 THE MODERATOR: Lucas, congratulations.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Quickly, just condolences to Chris Smith and his family and what he's going through. Chris was a great friend of mine. And I haven't had a chance to call or text him, but I want him to know that I, for one, and the rest of the tour is thinking about him. None of us can imagine what he's going through. But our thoughts are with him, and I hope he gets through it.   
 So just wanted to say that, and thank you, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT