FBR OPEN
January 29, 2009
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: We'd like to welcome Lucas Glover to the interview room. Lucas shot a 6-under 65 today and is currently co-leader after the first round. Lucas, if you'll start off with some general comments about your round and then we'll open it up to questions.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: It was pretty solid. I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of first cuts, actually, and only had a couple in the high stuff. But I played good. I made a couple nice birdie putts and then made a couple key par putts and played the par-5s good. That usually equals a good score, so I was pretty pleased, obviously.   
  
  Q. Some of the players were saying that the rough is a little bit tougher than what it looks like. There was a number of players who racked up some double bogeys just from being in the wrong place. Did you find that the same?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, absolutely. Any course like this, you hit it in the wrong place, you've got to be careful. But they grew it up on us this year, and it looks like some of the fairways are pinched in a little bit. Either that, or it's just higher in places. That probably is it.   
  No. 5, for instance, you could always hit down the left side there and always had a pretty good lie. I just can't remember if it was fairway or not. But you can't do that anymore. You've got to hit it up towards the bunkers and play the slope. But there's a lot of that going on now with the high rough. No. 2 is another great example. You've just got to be careful. There might be some more fairway woods off the tees and stuff like that to stay out of it. But today I was pretty aggressive. I was hitting my driver good, so I kept after it.   
  Q. How has your game been coming into this week?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, I played last week, and that was my first week of school last week for '09. I put a lot of time in in the off-season. I took about six weeks off after the FedExCup last year and didn't do a whole lot. I worked pretty hard about the middle of November on. If the weather was good at home I was out there doing something, and I spent a good bit a week before the Hope and got ready. I played well last week, and today was kind of a similar day as I had last week. I made some putts and hit a lot of good shots.   
  
  Q. As I recall you had a pretty important win here in the Phoenix area on the Nationwide; is that right?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yes, sir. Yes, sir, that was '03. I pretty much locked up my card there, so that was nice. If it wasn't for that, I don't know if I'd be here right now.   
  
  Q. This wouldn't be bigger?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, absolutely. I think any win on the TOUR is pretty big, so yeah, for sure.   
  
  Q. You, I believe, played in the last Presidents Cup, right?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Mm-hmm.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about that experience of playing on teams representing the country, Ryder Cup, Presidents Cup, and what kind of importance that has for you now after having gone through that experience?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's always been a goal of mine. You know, I think it's as big an honor as we can get out here. Winning a major and representing your country is probably up there at the same level for me personally. I just think it's a cool thing. I think it's an honor and a privilege. Like I said, it's always been a goal of mine, so it was a treat to get to do that a couple years ago. We had a great time, and it was great to get to know some of the guys I didn't know, and luckily we won. But it was quite an experience.   
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you, Lucas.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT