TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2008
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Lucas, thanks for joining us for a few minutes here at the Travelers Championship, 65 yesterday, one higher today, 66, still a great round, puts you one off the lead at 9-under. Just a couple comments on the round. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: It was good, pretty solid. I didn't hit very many good shots early, got a couple of them up-and-down, didn't on 4, and that was the lone bogey. 
 But it turned around on 6, made a nice birdie, and that kind of got things going, but overall pretty solid.
 DOUG MILNE: They asked you out there about taking advantage of your length. Is that something you had your mind's eye on? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: To an extent because you've got to play to your strength, and that's my driver. But around here you can't hit it every hole. It's always in the back of your mind if you've got a tough pin or something, so I can be a little more aggressive if I wanted to. I wouldn't say I've been overly aggressive the last two days, but just made a game plan Tuesday and Wednesday and pretty much stuck with it. But going into the weekend if there's a chance to maybe do a little something different, just a situation type of thing.

 Q. What was the game plan? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Fairways and greens, to be honest. Y'all have never heard that; I just came up with it yesterday (laughter). 
 For me it's kind of -- pretty important because I can't lash at drivers because there's a lot of run-outs here, for instance, No. 9. That bunker is very in play. It was in play for 3-wood today. That hole you just kind of, I guess, suck it up and hit it in the fairway and then worry about it after that, instead of worrying about I can hit driver there and be 40 yards from the green. Just be smart I guess would be a better theory than fairways and greens. And then just pick your spots because these greens are such that they can hide the pins a little bit, and the slopes can either work for you or against you, and you kind of pick your spots and be aggressive when you can.

 Q. So you throttled back pretty good the first two days?
 LUCAS GLOVER: The perfect example would be 17 yesterday. The pin was front left, I hit a nice tee shot. On that slope, right of the hole can help you so you can be aggressive there, hit a nice shot. Today it was opposite so you've kind of got to be careful. I wouldn't say I throttled back, but I thought well. I was thinking well and going through my game plan pretty well. 

 Q. Is it experience that's taught you when to attack, when not to attack. Is that the difference this year than in your previous three when you missed the cut? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: You know, experience is huge, obviously. You've just got to play to your strengths, and that's what I try to do. My first few years here I was probably pressing and trying to win the golf tournament on Thursday. You know, it's not a course you can do that. I know the scores are low, but you get a little excited and short-side yourself a bunch, you can make you some numbers pretty quick around here. 
 DOUG MILNE: If you wouldn't mind just running through your birdies, just give us some clubs. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Sure. 2nd hole was just a 3-wood and a wedge, hit a nice shot to a couple feet and knocked it in. 
 6 was actually -- I did not throttle back on 6. I hit driver, driver to the back fringe and made a nice birdie there. 
 10, 3-wood and a 6-iron from like 199 I think we had to about a foot. That was probably the shot of the day because I had a bogey there yesterday. 
 13, knocked 5-wood on the green in two, nice two-putt from a long way, 40, 50 feet.
 And then 15, nice up-and-down, knocked in a six-footer after a 3-wood off the tee. 
 DOUG MILNE: Lucas, thanks for coming in, and best of luck on the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT