VERIZON HERITAGE
April 18, 2008
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: We'd like to welcome Lucas Glover to the media center. Second consecutive 66, the clubhouse lead here at Verizon Heritage. Talk about your round today.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Obviously good score, but pretty slow start. Bogeyed 10 and wedge and the putter and kind of saved the round. I had some good opportunities to make some bogeys, and made some pars early.  
 And then knocked it on in 2 on 15. I think that kind of got things going. It was the first real good swing of the day I made. And after that pretty solid. Squirrelly tee shots and got some good breaks.  
  
  Q. Just feel like carryover from yesterday?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think so, more so with the putter. I played well yesterday and made some key par saves today. 16 and 7 come to mind, about eight, nine-footers there. But I didn't make a lot of 15, 18 footers, but I didn't miss anything inside ten, either. And that's key around here. If you hit the green you've got 25 feet it seems like every hole. But to be able to feel good over the short ones, you're going to have some four, five, six footers for par, because you're not going to hit every green out here.  
  
  Q. Are you good at keeping the pressure off yourself?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, I've been a pain at home would be fair. But I take it out on myself and kind of clam up in my own little shell. But I told myself I had to go to work, and it's not going to come easy and I was able to do it the last couple of days, two days out of four, anyway. I can say it's been working.  
  
  Q. For those of us who can't play golf like you do, I assume all of the pros are good at reading putts, do you consider yourself good at reading putts?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: When you're making them (laughter).   
  
  Q. What's the secret to it?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think it's just comfort. I mean, obviously we all play to some degree. You know the greens on your own course better than anywhere else, because you're used to it. You're used to seeing where the holes are. That's why I think guys that have been out here ten years are better than a rookie, 20 years or 15 years, stuff like that.   
 But out here you've got to figure on the grain and then the slope. And then decide which one's going to factor more. Sometimes the grain factors more than the slope. The simplest way to think about it is if you pour a bucket of water on the green where would it roll off. That's how I learned as a kid. And sometimes you have to fall back on that. And then you work on grain after that. This grain is tough. Obviously it's easier than Bermuda.   
  
  Q. A lot of South Carolina guys this year, do you have a fairly large family following here and who are they?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yes, sir. My folks are here and my grandfather came down. Sorry if he ran over anybody's foot (laughter). I've got some cousins that came, and obviously my wife and her family. We've got a good many.  
  
  Q. Does that add pressure or relieve pressure? How does that play out for you when you're on the course?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's support one way or the other. They're clapping for a bogey just like they would for a birdie. I think it could add a little bit, but coming into here and Greensboro and Charlotte and those events, it's going to be like that. So you learn to deal with it. But you can't ask for more support. So it makes it easy in that regard, but once your tickets are handed out, it's pretty good.  
  
  Q. The Clemson guys, DJ had a good round yesterday, Jonathan is up on the leaderboard, when you go around the course and glance at the leaderboard, do those names jump off at you?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, because we're all friends and get along, hang out and whatever. So, yeah, you pull for your friends always. It's not just the Clemson guys, if it was anybody else, I want them to make the birdie and make the cut.  
  
  Q. Tell me about the course conditions, particularly the greens. It's a good start and possibly even the course record, it's going to get tougher as the week goes on.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: The hole location get tougher, but the golf course is perfect. The fairways are like always; there's not a lot of rough. They don't need it here. And the greens, they're Harbour Town greens, rolling about nine and a half or ten and they don't need to be faster, slower, whatever.   
 But this morning if you missed a putt it was your fault. There weren't any bumps. There wasn't enough wind to cause you whatever. But the golf course is perfect. They're going to start tucking holes a little bit more and it will be tougher to get to them. Some 15, 20-footers, you have to knock some of those in for birdies instead of going at all the flags.  
  
  Q. With the wind down can you compare this to past years as far as the moisture on the greens?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: They're not as firm as they could be, but again, it's dry out there now and a little breezy. They're just going to get firmer each day. But as far as past years go, it's not near as windy as it can be here. We were talking, my caddie and I were talking today what we did on 16, we remember hitting a 5-wood there and it was driver on Wednesday. So you hit that hard south wind, it's a totally different golf course. And we've had that in the past. 17 felt like you could even hit the green, sometimes.  
  
  Q. Jonathan was saying early today that when he looks at tournaments, he looks at this one and Augusta, because they're kind of like your home course. And he'll say he'll be very disappointed at the end of his career he doesn't have a blazer from each of them. Do you view them that way, as well?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Absolutely. I'm two hours from Augusta and four hours from here. So, yeah, you feel like you want to play good because we're familiar with the area. We drive our car and throw all our junk in there, move in somewhere and kind of feel like we're at home.   
 So, yeah, I kind of feel that way, too.  
  
  Q. Do you allow yourself now to think, all right, tomorrow I may be in the last group. Two more rounds, if I play like I did today, maybe I could wind up on top?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Not at the moment. I've got to figure out how to get in the fairway a little bit more. Luckily I have the afternoon to do it. But I don't know. I don't think I've ever been in this position. So I'll figure it out tonight. But I'm not going to dwell on it. I'm going to get my work done and relax and do something else.   
  
  Q. Did you play this course a lot when you were coming up through junior golf and high school golf?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I didn't. I played here one time as a kid, we used to have tournaments every Monday when I was a little kid and the last one was here. I played the back nine when I was like ten. The next time I actually played here was the first time I played the Heritage. I think it was '02.   
  
  Q. You said you had a hard time keeping it in the fairway. Boo said the same thing, he kept blocking it right. But yet you guys are separating yourselves?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I did that, too. That's my miss. When I get going bad, that's the way it goes. And I just have to deal with it. Out here you've got to know where to miss it. No. 6, you can't hit it right, so I pull it sand on the left or waste area on the left. It's not near as bad as that jungle on the right. You know where you can't miss it. You make 4-iron out of the trees easier than you can out of the bunker there. That's an example of knowing my tendency.   
 DOUG MILNE: Run us through birdies.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: 15, hit 5-wood up over the trees. Had a good number there, I think I had 235 to the front, maybe 54 to the hole, something like that. We were debating going for a laying up. We just said, let's try to get something going. Hit it right in the middle of the green, made a nice 2-putt.  
 17, 6-iron about 15, 18 feet -- 15 feet, probably, rolled that one in.  
 1, hit 3-wood, pitching wedge about three feet.  
 2, I pulled my 3-iron six inches from out of bounds, flopped it to four feet and made it. Stole one to say the least.   
 4, I had a good 6-iron to about six feet and made that one.  
 9, was a 5-iron and a gap wedge to about eight inches.   
 DOUG MILNE: Just looking ahead as far as a goal standpoint, you had The Presidents Cup experience last year, and I know how much that meant to you. How much is Ryder Cup going to mean?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: A lot. I'm not in the position I was two years ago to be thinking about it. Right now I'm trying to work my way into being able to think about it and get nervous about it. But you know how much I enjoyed last year. And I like those every year as a schedule on my goal, maybe a No. 1 goal, an honor and privilege to wear the colors. I appreciated the call last year, to say the least.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT