VERIZON HERITAGE
April 17, 2008
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We've got Lucas Glover with us, one of your leaders at 5-under par, 66. Lucas, great playing out there today. Just give some comments on the day. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: It was good. I had a slow start, birdied early, a couple of bogeys, another birdie, kind of waffling. I made birdie on 8, put my heart and soul out there, traditionally.
 And then 9, had a good wedge shot. I made the turn at a couple of under, which felt good.
 10, up into the wind. Had a nice 5-iron, birdied another hard hole. I felt pretty good about it.
 15 and 16, laid it up on the water on 15. I had a good wedge number after that, wedged it close, knocked it in and made about 15, 18-footer on 16. I weaseled my way into the house, kind of a bad putt on 17 for birdie, didn't have a chance. Four-footer to get in the house where I'm staying. But I've been working pretty hard. I feel pretty good about it. 

 Q. Do you feel like your game is close to where you wanted to be? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think so. Having last week off and finding a little something in Houston. I was able to watch the most motivational tournament in the world. That gets you going a little bit. And I worked pretty hard last week out here and got my work done, and it kind of paid off today. Whether or not I keep it going, that's another thing. 

 Q. Is there a particular thing you're working on?
 LUCAS GLOVER: You know, I've been putting better this year than years past, but I haven't been hitting the ball well. I've haven't been hitting it in the fairway, and piling on some mental errors. And finally starting to hit the ball more solidly and more where I'm looking. I went through the whole West Coast not being able to hit it where I'm looking. That's a problem, especially when I've always fell back on my ball-striking and my length. And I haven't been doing that so well. 

 Q. When you use the term "found a little something" is that so technical the rest of us wouldn't understand it or is it something simple?
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's something that I've been working on finally clicked. It finally made sense. I finally saw some results. It's Monday morning at 8:20 on the range at Houston. And it was after a hissy fit. I got mad and I said, already, I'll refocus and work on it. I know it's the right thing to do. And I almost kind of made it work and made myself have some confidence. There again, first week out you don't trust it like you would if you found it maybe on a week off and worked on it on the range at a Tour event, and you've got to play with it on Thursday. It works 15 holes each day, and three holes it's kind of squirrelly every day. That was a good week for me. And it helped having the next week off working on it.

 Q. Again, when you say "it", what was it?
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's a ball position thing. I got a little closer to the ball. I felt like I rotated my shoulders faster. Sorry, I missed your question. But that was it. Ball position, posture and then get through it quicker, almost swing harder, believe it or not.

 Q. How much of The Masters did you watch? You said it was motivational, can you expand on that maybe a hair?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I played the last couple of years, and not being in this year was obviously a disappointment. But watching it on TV and even when I used to go as a kid, you get home and go putt, that's just the way that place is and the way the tournament is, you want to be there. I think I watched all the telecasts each day, with the exception of Saturday. My DVR didn't work correctly. But that's the way it was.

 Q. Do you feel pretty good about the fact you got through what are usually the worst conditions here in the afternoon with a 66, and you're coming back in the morning, it should be a little calmer?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yes, sir. The wind wasn't what it usually is here. And I'm not sure if it was this morning or not. I was out here kind of early, but it didn't seem to be too bad all day. That being said, it could blow overnight and in the morning. But the greens are a little softer. But you've got to prepare just like I did today and go through the same stuff. If we do have the same wind, the scores will be about the same. 

 Q. Can you talk about the leaderboard, sharing the lead with two past champions. Is that what you expected or how do you assess that?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, I knew going out there that the scores were going to be pretty low. Some of the morning guys finished. I think Justin finished when I was on 2 or 3. 
 And Davis, you just see him out there, he's going to play good here. And you keep up with him around here, you're doing something right because he's got it figured out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT