GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 23, 2007
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE:  Lucas Glover, thanks for joining us.  Couple of opening comments about how you're feeling and playing.  Just kind of assess the state of the game as we head into the week.   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I have no idea.  I haven't played in three weeks.  I played 15 holes since Canada and practiced about three times.  Just played nine and it wasn't too good, so we'll see.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Obviously likely still riding the wave of momentum from the Presidents Cup.  Just a couple comments on what that whole experience was like in Montreal.   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  It was good.  It was a confidence builder.  I think I played four matches in a row.  You know, my record wasn't a positive one, but I played well.  Yeah, you can take a lot from that.  You know, you're nervous on every shot there so you kind of learn what you're made of, and I was pleased with the way I performed.   
 DOUG MILNE:  We've been obviously at a lot of golf tournaments over the years, but I don't recall ever seeing the crowd as enthusiastic and electric as that.   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, they were tough.  They were tough on us, but it wasn't disrespectful or pulling against us so much or booing us or whatever.  When the momentum was in their favor and their guys did good they cheered.  Every now and again when we gave them a hole or they won a hole they cheered, too.  You know, that kind of thickened your skin up for anything.  Pretty positive experience.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Go out for a few questions.   
  
  Q.  You said you were nervous on every shot.  Talk about expectations in Montreal.   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah.  Absolutely, I asked a couple guys, How does this help for the regular tournaments?  I can't remember who it was, he said, Well how did you feel on the first tee?  And I said, I was pretty nervous.  He goes, How do you feel on 18 on Sunday in contention?  I said, Not really that nervous.   
 He said, that ought to tell you all you need to know.  So every day, every shot was pretty nerve-wracking because you wanted to win and play well.  It's the same here.  Thursday morning here is a little different than is not Sunday morning if you're in the last group or trying to come from behind or something.   
 It started on Thursday there.  Here it really doesn't start till Sunday.  Not here saying the Ginn, but regular events.   
  
  Q.  What nine did you play?  Just talk a little about the course.   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I played the front.  Still a little soft.  Pretty sure you guys have had a lot of rain down here.  The greens are nice and when the fairway is a little bit dry they'll be able to cut them down and they'll play a little faster.   
 The fairways are pretty tight, I thought.  The longer holes obviously a little more forgiving.  The 3rd hole comes to mind.  It's a 3-wooder or a 2-iron or whatever you have in your bag to lay up short of the bunker, and it's only 18 yards wide with some rough.  The fairways are, you know, kind of hilly and sloping away.   
 For the most part they're pretty narrow, but the golf course is good.  When if firms up it'll play a little harder.   
  
  Q.  Did you like the greens as much as you did the last time you were here?   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Actually I was having my putter worked on, so I don't know.  I didn't have a putter.  I was using one of Bateman's backups.  I hope so.  That was kind of ridiculous.  That would be nice.  Just one day like that would be all right.  You might not need four.   
  
  Q.  Getting on the President's Cup team that seemed to be the pinnacle.  What were the keys to getting along to that?   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I think needed to putt better than last year or even two years ago or whatever.  I don't know what the stats are, but I'm more confident on the greens.  I feel like I'm a better putter than I was this time last year.   
 Last off-season I kind of worked on it a lot harder.  I'm still not where I want to be.  This off-season will be the same thing.  Get my full swing where I want it and really work hard on improving my putting, and I think I did that a little bit for this year.  And there's still room for improvement.   
 But short game all around a little more consistent this year, and still do the dame things I've been doing with the full swing and get that a little sharper and get ready for January.   
  
  Q.  (Question regarding putting average.)   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I mean, I looked at it probably a month ago.  I hadn't played so I don't know if it changed.  It's better than it was.  You know, it might be different now.  Personally I don't care about it because everybody else could be putting better too.  Mentally I feel more comfortable, and that's all I wanted.   
  
  Q.  Are you playing next week?   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yes, sir.   
  
  Q.  Yes, sir.   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Sorry, bad habit.   
  
  Q.  How about the off-season, did you do anything exciting?   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  No.  Just got a couple weekend trips lined up.  Nothing official or unofficial.  I like home too much.  It's football season, so...   
  
  Q.  You look at Mike Weir and how the President's Cup experience certainly seemed to get him going again.  How excited are you to get back out and use what you were talking about to see where it's going to take your career?   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Pretty excited, obviously.  You know, I'll practice a little bit this afternoon and shake a little more rust off and have a good feeling tomorrow of what the week's going to be like and what I'm going to have when I get out here Thursday.   
 Obviously I think Mike used the President's Cup as a springboard to play well.  I played him twice out there and he played unbelievable.  So, you know, hopefully maybe I can follow suit.  We'll have to see.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Thanks for stopping by.  Good luck this week.   
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT