WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2007
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LUCAS GLOVER:  Too many mistakes.  I got a funny feeling about today.  I played well.  I'd be doing something wrong.  Too many 3-putts and too many problems, too many mistakes.  When you come from four behind you can't afford that.  It is what it is. 

 Q.  Nonetheless, as you've seen yourself this week, this course, you can go out tomorrow and you still have a very good chance. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Today was like Thursday.  5-under on the turn and 7 through 11 on Thursday and then it's almost like something hit the brakes.  I don't know if it got in my head or what. 
 You get off to a fast start you've got to keep doing it.  Too many birdies out there for anybody. 

 Q.  How much fun is it to play a course like that with the PGA so demanding? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Right.  With the way the greens are you can be real aggressive on the putts, too.  It makes it a lot of fun especially coming off last week where every hole you feel like you can make 10 on if you hit a couple bad shots.  It's fun and, you know, I think the fans enjoy it up here. 

 Q.  Can you talk about it all? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Got off the a fast start.  Things kind of slowed down after the turn.  To only shoot 6-under, a little disappointing.  Couple 3-putts and one bad drive.  Other than that it was real solid. 

 Q.  You find yourself still going into the mix tomorrow.  Low score tomorrow could put you up there on the top. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  There's so many birdies coming for the leaders but something scary low tomorrow but it can be done.  Birdie half the holes today.  Do that tomorrow, might be a fighting chance. 

 Q.  Coming off the course, you feel like you left some out there? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Three-putted 17, 3-putted 11, got a bad break on a fairway bunker on 11.  I missed putts inside ten feet for birdie. 
 The ball striking is there.  Just got to take out the mental mistakes and take advantage of all the opportunities.  That's kind of the hand I dealt myself leading into tomorrow with today's mistake but there's some positives taking to tomorrow and going into the next couple weeks.  It's good. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT