AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 8, 2019
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You got done just in time here at Pebble Beach.  The rain starting to fall.  6-under today.  What were some of the challenges you guys faced out there on a cool, windy Friday?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, staying warm, really.  That's the first thing.  And then the wind picked up a little coming in but overall it was a good day.  Kudos to the weather guys for holding it off and getting us in.   
 Q.  Second start of the season, five top-25 finishes.  What maybe clicked after that three-month break you took due to injury, the middle of last year, as you've sort of rejuvenated things at 39 years of age?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I had plenty of time to, work on some stuff and to get a little more confidence with my putting and continue to hit the ball like I can and just it's been good.  A like hiccup last week, but it's motivating at the same time.  So it's good.   
 Q.  What drives you at this point in your career to continue to get out here and feel like you could win again?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Same as always.  I'd like to get this money and trophy every Sunday evening.  So I still think I can do it and I want to do it.   
 Q.  You didn't quite beat the wind, but you beat the rain.  What a quality round of golf you played.  Tell me about it.  
LUCAS GLOVER: I played nice.  I got off to a great start, birdied 2, 3, 4.  And if there is such a thing as a good 5 on 8, I made it.  So and that kind of, that honestly kind of kept the momentum going.  To give up another one there, that kind of takes its toll.  Then I got through 9 and 10 unscathed and got one again on 11.  I played real solid.  I drove it a little better today and made a few more putts.   
 Q.  A few more putts?  You made 128 feet in putts.  That's really good for anyone.  Some disappointment and some elation, I guess.  Disappointing you didn't make a five-foot eagle putt on the 6th, but that par you had on 17, that was really good.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, as we know the game gives and takes away.  And you hit a 5-wood from 250 to five feet, might have been the hardest putt I've had all week.  It was a good two balls outside of the hole on the left and I couldn't hit it very hard, so.  But a four's a four on No. 6 at Pebble Beach and I'm pretty happy with it.   
 Q.  Tell me about the conditions.  As soon as you turned toward those ocean holes, I didn't really realize how hard the wind was blowing, but then you get out there and 17 and 18 and oh my goodness.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it was going pretty good.  We got over to, we got to 16 tee and I think the wind pushed my ball about 15 yards into a bunker.  Came away there with a good par.  And then 180 something, 190 something into 17 and hit 4-iron as hard as I could.  Luckily it was right or it would have been in the bunker.  And then 18 at Pebble Beach is 18.  That drive will make anybody pucker up, but it was good, it was a good finish.   
 Q.  Because of the rotation you play it's like a staggered start to a track meet.  You get Monterey Peninsula Country Club, the most scorable of the courses but it's also pretty exposed.  How are you approaching that round?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Same as I looked at today, and every other round.  Just get the ball in the fairway first and then go from there and be aggressive where we can and just got to roll the ball where we're looking.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT