AT&T NATIONAL
July 7, 2007
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You didn't get down on yourself at all. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I did the same thing yesterday.  I bogeyed two right away and I think I've made 17 birdies for the week or something stupid like that. 
 So I had to just tell myself after four holes that I'm making four or five a day; just make some pars and see if I can get it going and it clicked right away.  Got a good break on 5 and on 7 and bounced it on to the green and made the putt and hit a another wedge shot on 8, and after that it was free-wheel.  The putter has been hot, so been good. 

 Q.  You probably had to kind of talk to yourself a little after your finish yesterday, too. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Absolutely.  Got a bad break, I hit it right down the middle of the fairway in a divot.  I didn't hit the right shot.  I hit it thin out of the divot instead of erring on  the right side with all of the green grass short. 
 I think I did myself a favor by not going to the range yesterday afternoon and beating myself up.  I just went home and relaxed and same thing, just had to tell myself I'm making enough birdies and I just have to be smart when I get in trouble and I does that.  But we're looking good early, I thought my momentum from yesterday might have carried over to today.  We got it turned around, so I'm pleased with myself I didn't get upset early. 

 Q.  You know, after the Open, you came back and then you tied for 10th last week, you've got to feel -- what was your mind-set after the Open and then how did you get your confidence? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I had to go back to some old stuff.  I had to go back to trying to draw the ball, and when a drawer can't see the draw, it's a problem.  And I've always hooked it and I would like to hook it because that's what my eye sees and I'm trying to get back into that.  It's been a process because I had overdone my old faults so I'm trying to work back into that and it seems to be clicking.  I'm hitting the ball a lot more solid, especially with the irons, not as many squirrely-looking shots like I had been. 
 Last week gave me some confidence, especially with the putter.  I didn't hit it that great, made some putts and started to hit it better and putting the same.  Hopefully it will all come together. 

 Q.  Anything technically different about the putter? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  It's my old putter.  It my putter from my rookie year in 2002, 2003 and 2004.  I putted some with it last year and two years ago.  I just said, going to a longer putter -- not a long putter; longer, 36, rather than 35.  And I said, well, let's go back and do the other stuff and see what happens.  It's always looked good to me and felt good and I picked it up at home a couple of weeks ago and said let's give it a try, so that's what we did.  It's just a Scotty Cameron Newport.  Actually it the first putter he ever made for me, November of 2001. 
 So can't quite catch Verplank, but that's a pretty old one I guess. 

 Q.  So you just picked it up after the Open? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, just picked it up at home and took it out back and looked at it and said, well, let's give it a try.  It looked good still and felt pretty good and put it in. 

 Q.  The pace of the greens seems to be confusing a lot of the players; are you having any problems? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  The first two days, I really did.  Wednesday was my only practice round and it took me ten holes to get a long one to the hole honestly.  And Thursday I knocked a couple six feet by, four feet short and yesterday on the second hole did the same thing and had a 40-footer and knocked it ten feet by. 
 After that, I just said, well, just take a little more time and try and figure it out.  I don't know if I'm the only one, but I think there's extra grain in them and you can see how it shines a little bit and dull in other places.  I played it today and my speed was good. 

 Q.  What's your mind-set going into tomorrow? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Just the same thing.  I've just got to hit it in the fairway.  I didn't do it the first couple of days.  I scored real good because of the putter and I hit it in the fairway like today and that led to a lot of birdies.  You know, it's not a course you can step up on the tee and say, all right, let's go shoot 62.  You've got to be patient and take what it gives you and all of the clichés. 
 But for me, it's just getting up the fairway because my irons are good. 

 Q.  Are you thinking about the Presidents Cup at all? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Of course.  Absolutely.  I said about the Ryder Cup last year, I don't think there should be an American player that doesn't think about it, because it's an honor and it's a goal for all of us, I hope.  I know it is for me. 
 Last week helped a little bit, and this week, you know, I can't think about it out there and think about it on Sunday evenings.  I look at it and I keep up with it.  I keep up with all that stuff.  I think you've got to pay attention to your goals for sure. 

 Q.  Think you said last year at that time Ryder Cup may have gotten to you a little bit at the PGA.  Did you learn anything from that? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Absolutely.  Like I said, I can't think about it out there.  Sun a night, if you play good or if you, you know, make Top-10, absolutely, check it out and look at it.  But last year, Ryder Cup, I was looking at it every day and I think I had the formula figured out. 
 Honestly last night was the first time since April I've looked at the list.  Doesn't take a genius to figure out I haven't been making any points. 

 Q.  Yeah, but you're 12th. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, I'm right there.  A couple good weeks, you never know.  Couple other goals; I'm not in the British, so got something to play for for that.  I've got a lot to play for, even if Stuart keeps doing what he's doing. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT