ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 20, 2007
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Lucas Glover in with a 3-under par 69 to go today with a 5-under par 67 yesterday.  Lucas, it looks like 13 of 14 fairways today and 28 putts.  Pretty good day for you.  Maybe just talk about things in general the first two days. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, I feel like today I hit it better and putted worse, and then yesterday was the opposite.  I didn't hit it quite as good and made a lot more putts. 
 You know, starting the back nine I got it to 8 pretty early, and a three-putt on 17 kind of ruined the momentum.  Pretty bad mental mistake on 18, another bogey there.  A bogey on a par 5 is not very pleasing.  But all in all very pleased, especially after last week. 
 It's been a good couple days. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  What was the mental mistake on 18? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  The cross bunker there, I was trying to lay up over it instead of short of it like every other player out here, and I hung it up in the right rough standing in the bunker.  Still should have hit it in the middle of the green but got greedy and tried to hit it close and missed it left.  It was all bad. 

 Q.  This is the fifth week out for you, right? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yes, sir. 

 Q.  Is this a typical stretch for you, or is this unusual for you? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I'll typically play one or two five-week stretches.  With the new schedule I'm playing every tournament right here together and then late spring, early summer.  I knew it when the schedule came out.  I don't usually play Dallas, so I was going to go five, take a week off, play five.  If things went well I might take one off in the middle of the next five or something like that. 
 But they're my favorite events, and you can figure out how to rest on the road like I do this week.  I haven't been practicing after I play and really wearing myself out, just warming up, playing and going home and putting my feet up or walking around town with my wife, something like that. 

 Q.  Are you feeling it at this point? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  No, I'm okay.  Missing the cut last week felt like a week off to be honest, just hung out in Hilton Head with family and friends and didn't -- I didn't touch a club until Monday, so it was good. 

 Q.  Does this course suit you? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  It does.  It's a lot of right-to-left shots and I'm a drawer, so I think it does.  A lot of the par 4s, especially the long ones, fit my eye.  Like 12, 15, a lot of those holes, they just look right to me because I've always been a hooker or drawer of the ball, so I think it does set up for me, yes. 

 Q.  Did you have a talk with yourself after 17, 18 with the front nine to go? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I had to because I was pretty upset with myself.  You know, kind of showed it out there after my third shot unfortunately.  But I've always said if you don't get mad, you don't care enough. 
 But I did.  I had to.  I had a nice long walk and kind of -- luckily it wasn't a ten-yard walk. 

 Q.  Can you tell us what you told yourself? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I just said, I've been hitting it close all day, I'm going to have a lot more opportunities, and I did.  I birdied 3 and 4 and I think parred to the house.  I missed a couple of makeable putts. 

 Q.  Probably a good thing it wasn't the end of your round, 17, 18, where you had to sleep on it? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Absolutely, I couldn't agree more.  It's never good to bogey a par 5, especially if it would be my last hole of the day, so I agree with that. 

 Q.  What was your second shot at 18? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I had about 210 to carry that bunker and I tried to hit a low 3-iron into that wind, and might not have caught all of it, but I think it just floated up into the wind a little bit. 

 Q.  Were the winds any different?  Were they stronger today? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I don't think they were stronger, just from a different direction.  For instance, No. 3 was down out of the left yesterday; it was down out of the right today.  So it was just a different cornering wind on that.  That one just popped into my head because it was different. 
 Anyway, strength I think was about similar, and I think yesterday afternoon and this afternoon will be about the same with strength of wind for sure. 

 Q.  Do you feel you're on the edge of a win here? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  You know, it's hard to say.  It's hard to say.  That would be a better question tomorrow night because I still -- like I said, I think there's going to be some low numbers today.  I don't think 8 will be leading.  I think a lot of those guys at 4 and 5 this afternoon are going to shoot 4 and 5 again.  That being said, sometimes it's better to be a couple back, sometimes it's better to be a couple ahead, you never know. 

 Q.  What is it about New Orleans you like the most? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  The food (laughter).  That's all I do, I eat and I sleep and I come out here and play golf. 

 Q.  That's a good life. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I like it here, it's fun, and my wife loves it.  We plan this trip every year and we come.  We could be playing a par 3 course and we'd come.  I don't know, it's just relaxing, and I seem to have good luck here if nothing else. 

 Q.  You played here in '05? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I played here in '04, '05, '06, back and forth, English Turn to here. 

 Q.  Do you like the course setup this time around more than in '05? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I do personally.  I think a lot of the changes were for the better.  A couple of the new tees are much better.  16 is a much better hole being 350; driver down into that neck wasn't any fun two years ago.  I'm pretty sure the TOUR will put the tees up one day and see if anybody will throw one at the green.  But I think they did a good job with the changes.  But it's good. 

 Q.  Do you like 9 and 17, the changes there? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, I do.  9 is just a hard hole.  Luckily we're playing that up tee.  If we weren't we wouldn't finish (laughter).  Literally I'd still be out there.  There would be three groups on that tee.  They're just hard holes. 
 17 is kind of the same way.  We've had up tee, back pin yesterday; back tee, up pin today.  So they're setting it up right for that difficult of a hole, and the wind was tough on both of them today. 

 Q.  Did you do something good on 3 or 4 to get you going again, to get you back in it? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  3 was just a perfect number.  This will sound crazy, we had 167, but the wind was such where I could hit a full 9-iron and it was just right because one big bounce off the front, made about a 15-footer. 
 Then I stuck it close on 4, but then I missed a ten-footer on 5 and a ten-footer on 8.  You know, that's the way it goes. 

 Q.  Where do you eat when you're here? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Hmm, man, where don't I?  Mr. B's, Dickie Brennan's, Acme last night.  I don't know how to say it, Pascal's Manale tonight, K-Paul's tomorrow night and we went to Irene's last night, so they can all give me free dinner next year if y'all write that. 

 Q.  Would you walk us through your round, just birdies, please? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Absolutely.  10, just a good 3-wood down the fairway and an 8-iron to 12 feet, pin high, made that one. 
 Hit it over the green in two on 11, which is a pretty good spot to be, chipping back up the green.  Hit that just dead in. 
 13, made a 15-footer -- hit an okay wedge shot about 12, 15 feet behind it, knocked that one in. 
 17 and 18 we talked about. 
 3, 12-, 15-footer on the par 3 there. 
 Then 4, hit it close, and then just pars to the house. 

 Q.  Is that usually your rotation here in New Orleans, the restaurant rotation? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  That's pretty close.  Tonight will be a new one and tomorrow night will be a new one. 

 Q.  Manale's is new? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  And K-Paul's is new, but the other three are definite hits. 

 Q.  Staples? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Staples for me.  I don't have a choice; my wife tells me where to make the reservation, and 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT