BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 20, 2007
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMCYZ:  Lucas, 7-under par 65 over at La Quinta. 
 Lucas, if you would, just maybe talk a little about your day and then we'll open it up for some questions. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Okay.  Got off to kind of a slow start.  I bogeyed the first, which was the 10th hole.  I followed that with a birdie.  Then took a little while to get going, made four or five pars in a row.  Made a long one on 16 for birdie and that got things going and hit it close on 17.  I really played solid on the front and just turned in a good nine.  Little windy over here, but you get a lot of short putts if you're in the fairway; it was good. 

 Q.  Seemed to adjust to the new equipment very quickly; are you surprised, did you expect a longer transition, or is this what you expected? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  No, this is about right.  The weather was so good at home this winter, I played a lot and I did play a lot with the new stuff.  Just very pleased that I've been able to play well this week for more than one reason; that being one of them, just so I wasn't doubted or doubt myself even. 
 Yeah, it's been an easy transition and very pleased with everything. 

 Q.  You were quite a few shots down, I guess five or six, I'm not sure exactly right now, but did you know where you stood; are the scoreboards any good over there, and do you ever pay attention to them? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yes, they were fine, they were updated.  Probably not as quick as the electronic ones over at the Classic, seems like they are updated every two or three holes.  And, yes, I do watch them.  I like to know where I stand and what I've got to do.  That will be more so tomorrow. 
 Yeah, I definitely look at them.  Yeah, they do, they kept them updated pretty well. 

 Q.  Did you realise that you were several shots back and that you were closing in? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, I look at the scores every night to see what my buddies are doing and see what's going on.  Yeah, I knew I was back starting the day. 

 Q.  You've won on Tour before; how important is it to have that going into the final round, especially against somebody who has not won? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Well, Justin won this winter, which was two months earlier than me, or more recent than me.  So I don't know if that's a good argument right now. 
 As for the Tour, he won in Australia, I guess, and I just have the win on Tour.  So I don't know if that's a fair shake. 

 Q.  So you don't think that applies then? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  No, I don't.  I mean, there were some unbelievable players in a heck of a tournament that he won, what, a month ago?  So he's a lot more recent than I am. 

 Q.  Conditions today I imagine were fun over there. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, it was perfect.  I walked outside of the room this morning and knew the sun was already out, so I knew it was not going to be like yesterday.  The most wind we had all day today was a gust of ten miles an hour which is standard right now this time of year.  Obviously can blow a little harder, but it was perfect.  And the greens here, man, they are lightning right now, some of the best we play all year, for sure. 

 Q.  The putt you made seemed to get you going.  Where was that and how long was that? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  It was No. 16, and it was 24 feet or so, not real sure.  Yeah, that got things going.  Wasn't doing much.  Bogey, birdie, the first two holes and made some decent pars on the next few.  Then kind of got it going after that. 

 Q.  Are you glad to get the golf fantasy camp out of the way and settle down with the pros tomorrow and a whole different attitude?  Talk about what that's going to be like for you. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I don't know, I kind of like this, it's not too bad. 
 Yeah, it will be good.  It will be good to get to the range and see everybody.  You know, we've been at four different courses and this is my first tournament out, so I haven't seen everybody yet.  So I think it will be fun in the morning. 
 Once we get out there, everybody will all be the same, trying to hit good shots. 

 Q.  Do you have to get used to this format; in other words, you show up, qualify for the Tour, and then show up here for the first time, not this year, but is it unusual to the point that you have to say, hey, I've got to put everything out of my mind and just play golf because of the amateurs and the revolving courses? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, I think so.  As for the playing part of it, I treat it just like I do a Wednesday Pro-Am.  I just try to do everything a little bit slower because the rounds are, they are long, but the fact is, these guys are out here having fun and competing just like we are.  Every group I've played with this week wanted to win the thing for their group, so they were trying just as hard as I was. 
 But yeah, you've got to know how to prepare for it.  After the first day, you figure it out. 

 Q.  Do you remember the last time you were in the lead or tied for the lead going into the final round? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  No.  (Laughing) Let me think.  I don't know, maybe Memorial two years ago.  I really don't know.  Not sure. 

 Q.  You closed very strong here last year, is that something that's in the back of your mind, something that you can use tomorrow? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Absolutely.  Any time you shoot 6-under over there on Sunday, if you've got to put it in the vault for something like tomorrow, and realise that I did play well last year and that I'm capable of doing that. 
 So, yeah, definitely want to hang onto those thoughts. 
 JOE CHEMCYZ:  If we can just go over your score card real quick, starting at 10 with that bogey. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, I thought I hit a pretty good tee shot, hit it through the fairway and had to punch it out under a tree and hit a bad shot.  Had a pretty simple bunker shot and didn't execute and missed an 8-footer. 
 After that, I don't know, that might have settled me down more than hurt me to be honest. 
 At 11 hit a real good drive, pulled my putt 15 feet past the green and had a chance to make that one. 
 17, hit 9-iron close, about five feet. 
 2, I hit 9-iron about eight feet and made that one. 
 4, I made another long putt, 25 feet, left-to-right, knocked that one in. 
 5, I had a good up-and-down out of the front bunker and made about a 15-footer there. 
 6, I knocked 4-iron in the green on two and had a good 2-putt there from the back of the green. 
 Then 8, wedged it to about, I don't know, seven or eight feet and knocked that one in. 
 JOE CHEMCYZ:  Lucas, we appreciate it.  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT