SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 3, 2018
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  10-under par out there today.  Pretty tough conditions.  What was the key for you?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Made putts.  Made some putts.  I started out with a bogey on 10 actually.  Hit a good putt; just misread a four-foot slider.  Made everything else, that's for sure.   
Couple eagles on the par-5s.  Holed it like a bucket.  One of those days.   
 Q.  You're really from some pretty good form right now.  What's been the key for your turnaround?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Just consistency.  Been consistent with what I've been working on.  Consistent with what I know I need to work on.  Not tinkering too much.  Putting better.  Still not consistently where I want it, but it's better for sure.   
 Q.  You tied your career low today 61.  When you're kind of on that roll, what are you thinking about out there?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Just get it on the green.   Just get it on the green somewhere.  9 was a good example.  Right in between the 5-wood/3-wood and then the wind and all that.   
Jut said, we got to get it behind that hole and anywhere on the green give it a look.  Made kind of a lifer,  but my speed was good and a bunch of 'em just trickled in.   
 Q.  Round of the week so far.  The eagle on the last, the 9th hole, your last hole of the day.  What were the keys in order to help you post a 61 which ties your low round on the PGA TOUR?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Made a bunch of putts obviously.  But two lifers kind of over 30, 40 feet on 13 and 9, two eagles, but I hit it where I needed to most of the day and made a lot of those 10- to 20-footers.  Haven't made many of those this week, so felt good.   
 Q.  You bogey your first hole of the day.  You're well back of where the leader is.  The leader hadn't even tee'd off at that time.  How did you reset and turn things around?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I hit a good put on 10.  I just miss-read it.  Had a big breaking left-to-righter and didn't give is it enough borrow and just walked off of there and said to my caddie, We hit a good putt.  I just didn't give it enough break.  Not going to let it bother us.   
Next thing you know we start pulling them in from everywhere.  Must have been a good talk I gave myself instead of other way I usually do.  But it was good.  Good day.   
 Q.  You mentioned putting.  How nice is it playing when you're rolling the ball so well?  
LUCAS GLOVER: It's good.  I had some trouble reading some of the greens first couple days.  I read them all right today except for the 1st hole.  Shoot that score hitting a a four-footer and a five-footer on 19 and 18, but typical golfer to be talking about that instead of the good ones, right?   
No, it was good.  I hit my lines a lot and picked the right ones.  I think that's an underestimated part of what we do that nobody really talks about is how well or not well you read the greens.   
Most of us get it online a lot.  It's just how many times you pick the right line.  I would dare say a lot of times when you see a number like that you picked the right line a lot.  I did that a lot today.   
Like I said, make a couple lifers on 13, my 4th hole and 9, my last hole.  But I was in the right spot to do it, so that was a good thing.   
 Q.  You mentioned the ones you missed.  Thinking like maybe could have shot 59?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I don't think that one on 9 would've gone in.  You know, no, I never -- looking back on it it's easy to say that.  Who knows what club I would've hit on X hole if I was sitting at 10-under or whatever.  Can't go that way.   
Easy to say on paper, but mindset-wise I don't think you think about that.   
 Q.  Was there a sense just somewhere in the round?  You start off with a bogey.  Was there a sense somewhere in the round like, Hey, man, I got it going?  I can drain it from anywhere?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I hit my spot on 10.  I just picked the wrong spot.  It was a big left-to-righter from four, four and a half feet; maybe not even that far.   
I didn't play enough break; hit the right edge.  I hit a good putt on 11 that didn't go in and then 12, 13, 15, they just started going in.   
So just one of those days.  Holed it like a bucket.  But I made it look like a bucket, which feels good, too.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.) Obviously continuing that trend.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, no, it's good.  Yeah, I like it.  You got to drive it pretty good and you got to hit your numbers.  If I'm striking my irons well I tend to do that.  Par-5s are all draw tee shots if you choose, and that's good for me.   
Just one of those courses that feel good when I drive up every day,  so it's good.   
 Q.  You talk a lot about the putting.  What's the first thing that comes to your mind about putting up a 61 like that?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I hit it a lot more in the fairway today.  Any time you shoot one of those you got to do something really, really well.  Today it was putting.  I'm just excited to putt so well.   
 Q.  Shows the quirky nature of golf if you look at your two 61s in terms of the 61 at Wyndham, went for 59 there, and then you make a huge one here.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, no, that's exactly right.  That one in Greensboro just kind of lost my composure and goosed that short one.  But here it was -- I had a good read on it and said, Let's give it a chance.   
Probably would've gone in a thimble.  It was good.  I wasn't going to trickle it down there for an eagle on the last.  There are still going to be some low scores out there.  A lot of birdie holes on the back for those guys.  I needed to try to be aggressive.   
 Q.  You set yourself up pretty good for tomorrow.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, just do what I've been doing, you know, what be smart where I need to be smart and be aggressive where I can and make some putts.  That's always the key.  Key for my anyway:  putt well and confidently.  Miss one, do the same thing I did today.  Walk over to the next tee and keep doing it.   
 Q.  You've played in Vegas I think six or seven times.  Great finish last year.  Now that you have this one going, what are your thoughts in general about Las Vegas?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I like it.  I like it.  The weather is usually pretty good and warm, which I prefer.  No, it's good.  I like playing here.  It's kind of target golf, but I've always enjoyed coming here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT