BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 19, 2007
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Lucas, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  You were at Bermuda Dunes today, had a very nice round in the conditions, definitely windy over here.  Why don't you just talk a little about the condition over there and what you did well today. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  It never warmed up like it usually does, it's been cold in the morning but the clouds never cleared.  A little tool today and got a little breezy towards the end.  Seemed like a made all my short putts and played the par 5s well enough and that's kind of a key here. 
 And La Quinta, if you make some 8-, 10-footers for birdie and play the par 5s good and just be smart, you're going to play well, and that's kind of what I did today.  I got away with a few wayward drives, but I was able to turn those into pars instead of bogeys.  So that was a plus.  But all in all, it was pretty solid. 

 Q.  66 today, but right now you're I think four shots off the lead.  A lot of guys have talked about how you can't really tell where you are in this tournament until you're done with 72 holes anyway; is that kind of your approach? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I'm on the same wave at Verplank.  So I've got a pretty good gauge right now and I assume -- I think Justin has, I don't know, does he play here tomorrow or Classic? 

 Q.  He plays Classic tomorrow. 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  So 72 holes is pretty good, but I've been trying to keep up with Verplank because we're on the same wave, but that is a fair assessment because everything is so mixed up. 

 Q.  In terms of the wind, some guys can't play in it and some guys do well in it; do you consider yourself a wind player or bad weather player? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  A lot of that I think is just when you play, when you're striking the ball well, it doesn't affect you.  But if you're struggling a little bit, the wind is going to play a bigger part.  If I'm playing well, yes, because I hit the ball with a lower ball flight, but if I'm not hitting it solid, it takes a toll on me just like anybody else.  But if I'm hitting good I don't mind it.  It's the same for everybody though. 

 Q.  Last year you made a big jump on the last day to jump up to a tie for 10th and this year obviously through today, you're in a little better position.  Can you talk about maybe the confidence that that last round gave you coming into this year's tournament? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Last year it was my first time at the Hope, and this year, got a little more experience on the course at the time.  Two rounds on the Classic last year, and that helped me yesterday, knew where to miss it and where I wanted to leave my tee balls and where I wanted to putt from and I guess that's the same from the other courses as well. 
 That run last year definitely gave me confidence coming back out.  I always seem to do all right in the desert here and Phoenix and whatnot.  I enjoy coming and obviously love this tournament.  But that definitely helps getting a little boost of confidence to play when I got here. 

 Q.  So you like the amateur format and the slower rounds and that don't bother you? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  It helps me.  Slows me down a little bit.  I'm a fast player and I get a little ahead of myself a lot, so it probably helps me more than it hurts. 

 Q.  I was over at La Quinta today, and some of the players were having problems with the weather, putting sweaters on, taking sweaters off, did you have any issues with that? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I just kept a jacket in my bag.  I've got a sweater on now, kept a jacket in my bag and I would wear it, take it off when I would hit shots and put it back on.  So, yeah, it was an issue.  It never warmed up and it never got cold, so you could never figure out what it was going to do. 

 Q.  What's the game plan for next couple of days, kind of the same as you've been doing or how do you look at the last couple of rounds? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  Each round has gotten better for me.  You know, 69, 68, and then today, so obviously looking to improve tomorrow over at La Quinta, it's a little quieter over there.  It seems to be getting a little bit better each day and hopefully that trend will continue.  It will be the same game plan:  You play smart on the hard holes, take advantage of the par 5s and keep making all your short putts.  And that's key anywhere, I guess, but more so at La Quinta and here today. 

 Q.  Any noteworthy shots today, stick anything real close or any big, long putts? 
 LUCAS GLOVER:  I didn't leave anything real long.  I made a nice birdie on 18.  I hit 5-wood in and had 240 or so.  I usually hit that club a little bit farther than that, but with the wind and the chill in the air, it was definitely the best shot I hit all day, 20 feet to that pin on the right corner.  Nothing really stood out today as, wow, I guess you could say. 
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Lucas, thank you very much and play well tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT