CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 7, 2006
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  66 for Lucas Glover, 6 under par.  Certainly the eagle at 2.  Maybe just talk about the weather conditions and how difficult it is out there.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Obviously it's pretty tough, rain, wind and cold.  I've played in worse of each but never all three, so it was tough out there.

But thankfully I had a good round.  I felt like I had pretty close to a good one yesterday and didn't get it but today it went my way.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  How difficult it is to play well under those conditions?
LUCAS GLOVER:  It's tough.  You've got to    obviously twosomes you feel like you should speed around, but everybody a little slower.  You've got to be a little more patient because you got a lot going on, umbrella and towel and all kind of stuff.

It's tough.  But if you're patient, you can take care of it.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  How do you focus on the golf part of that with all of that going on?
LUCAS GLOVER:  It was so on and off, especially the wind.  Sometimes it was blowing like crazy and sometimes it wasn't at all.

Like, for instance, the last I hit 5 iron the, sand wedge there every year, everyday years past.  So, you know, it's a little different but then you turn around on 17 and wasn't blowing so it was    it's kind of gusty and the rain is getting under the umbrella.  It's making it a little tough.

Q    Are there going to be more 66s out there today?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I don't know.  Who knows what the weather will do?  But I think we've had two already this morning so I don't think conditions are going to be much different.

You know, the greens might get banged up a little bit with all the traffic but other than that, we'll have to see.

Q    The eagle?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Hit a good drive and good hole location for me on the front left.  Drew a 5 iron to about 7 feet, knocked it in.

Q    Are you thinking at that point today now, we can make something out of this round?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Anytime on Saturday if you're early you get off to a good start you always want to get one more and that's the bottom line.  You get 2 under through 2, as soon as you get through, you want to get to 3 and then 4.

You got to get back in the game.  If you get off to a bad start then you're really pressing.  Getting off to a good start, that was big today.  But, like I said, you always want to get one more on Saturday.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  What did you do on 5?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Just wedged it to about ten feet, just right of the hole there, made that one.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  7?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Hit another good wedge to five feet, made that one.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  13?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Knocked it on two.  Had a two putt.  Had the little "swoop dee do" to deal with.  Made a good 6 footer there.  Didn't ready hit the first one quite right.  Felt pretty good.

50 feet, 45, 50 feet on the next one.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Is "swoop dee do" a golf term?
LUCAS GLOVER:  It is now.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Birdie at 14.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Hit it best.  4 iron into 14.  Again, a hole, 7, 8, 9 irons into.  Had 4 iron in from 203 I think right into the wind at about 18, 20 feet.  Ran it by.  Felt pretty good.

Turned around on the next and made a good birdie, good up and down from the short left of that bunker.  God hole location.

That kind of got the momentum back.  18, like I said, 5 iron to 14, 12 feet, knocked that one in.

Good finish that way.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Hard to concentrate on golf when Clemson is playing?  You get texts to keep up with Clemson football, or do you?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I won't say my source, might get thrown out for having technology on the golf course.  My buddy is here.  He told me on the 17th tee.  I walked in here and saw 7 3.  Something to do in the fall.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Alright.  Let you get to football.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Thanks, Joe.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT