WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 24, 2006
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Did anybody clap?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, three people.
Q.  We were watching it on the screen, and we thought, "this is going in."  How did it go today, good?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, it was good.  I had a good group and had good fun, so yeah, it was good.
Q.  This is your first time here, isn't it?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, what a place.
Q.  When did you pull in, Tuesday?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I drove over Sunday night, came out and did some work Monday, putted a little, chipped, and played Tuesday and nine yesterday, so quite a place.
Q.  You're impressed with it?
LUCAS GLOVER:  You could have a major here tomorrow.  Today even.  The course is in perfect shape.  It's got some length, the par 3s are good, the greens are quick.
Q.  Quicker than last week?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, no question.  It's a major style golf course.  Similar to last week, a lot of the longer holes, you're hitting it on down slopes so it doesn't play long, but if you miss those fairways it's long.
Q.  Where is your mind right now?
LUCAS GLOVER:  There's still a trophy to be had Sunday afternoon, and that's every week, and that's the bottom line.  You can't get motivated to play this golf course and this field, you've got a problem.

I haven't been playing well.  That's why I didn't make that team, and that's what motivated me to play good.  I've been struggling.
Q.  After a tough Monday, though, it could either go one way, down, or up, and you went up.  How do you pull yourself out of it?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Just very relaxed, got nothing to lose.  I don't want to think about it anymore; it's over.  That's good for me.  I thought about it so much, and who knows what tomorrow holds if I do the same thing as last week.

I've just got to play good.  That was the mindset.  I've been working hard this week and hit some great shots out there and hit some squirrelly ones, too, but just need to play better.  I've still got some goals I need to reach.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT