BUICK OPEN
August 5, 2006
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE SENKO:  Lucas, maybe just get us started, 16 under, which matches your career low for 54 holes.  Maybe just talk about your day.
LUCAS GLOVER:  It was good.  Got off to a good start.  I birdied 1, 4 and 5, 3 under through five, so jumped up the board a little bit.  That was a good start and that's one of the keys around here I think, get off to a good start, because you can really get going in the middle of the round there, 7 through 14 and all that stuff.  But it was good, good and solid.

14, one foul up on probably statistically the easiest hole on the course, but I seemed to mess it up pretty good.  That's the way it goes.
DAVE SENKO:  What did you hit on 4?  What was your shot sequence on No. 4.
LUCAS GLOVER:  3 wood off the tee behind the tree.  I had to hit 9 under under the tree and I got up to the front fringe, I don't know how far that was, 30, 35 feet.  That's the longest putt I made all week, and that was a good feeling after messing around on the first two shots.
DAVE SENKO:  How about No. 11?  ShotLink had 43 and a half feet.
LUCAS GLOVER:  That was a long one.  That was the longest putt I've made.  Shows you how well I know feet.
Q.  Do you feel like on the golf course last few weeks you've been searching a little bit and this week is a culmination of things coming together for you?
LUCAS GLOVER:  No question.  I haven't been hitting it very well.  Haven't been doing anything very well.  Spent some time out in Vegas with Butch Harmon and the crew out there and got some work done over the weekend.  And I came up here with some stuff to work on and it's helped, a lot, because I got a little confidence back, still working on it, hopefully it will be clicking all cylinders tomorrow.  But it's been really good.
Q.  Worked on everything?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, everything, ball striking.
Q.  13, was that how you planned to play it, off the roof of the green?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Absolutely.  100%.  I did it on 18 Thursday, too.  It's like a backboard in basketball, they are there for a reason.  I just pulled a 3 iron and I was in between clubs and I was trying to hit it long if anything and when you pull it, it's going forever and that one did.  Got lucky, hit a bad chip and made the putt.  Who knows, one of those deals I guess.
Q.  You and Vaughn are in a similar spot, on the outside looking in at the Ryder Cup, is it easier because you guys are in a similar boat, you're out here young and inexperienced, but also a great opportunity to make the team?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I haven't talked to Vaughn about it, but I know as well as he that we want to make the team.  Chasing him up the leaderboard today was motivating because of that.  You know, that's our goal, one of them; win a golf tournament and get on that team.  Probably one-two, or maybe some people, the other way around to be honest.  Saw him getting up there and getting hot and that was cool, that's good to see.  It's out there, okay, so go get it.  What a round, 63 on Saturday is great.
Q.  You've had quite a few Top 10s but missed some cuts as well.  Is it just a matter of inconsistency in trying to just get something consistent that you can go to week to week?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, just haven't been playing well, two months I guess now.  I've been thinking too much about that thing in September we all know about.  That took its toll and you know, just wasn't doing the right things.   Didn't really have much to work on when I practiced and finally got some stuff to do this weekend and it's been working.  Yeah, just bad play and too much thinking.
Q.  You started the year, you had three Top 10s.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, and I'm not disappointed in my year by any means.  The last couple of months, got passed on the points list for the Ryder Cup, so that was a letdown.  But here I've got a chance to make it up all in one day tomorrow, and I'll be thinking about it a lot.  I've got to figure out a way not to think about it for starters.  Yeah, just haven't been playing well.
Q.  There's a perception that U.S. Ryder Cup Team would be somewhat vulnerable with four or five young players, inexperienced players, and the other school of thought is, hey, this is the next generation, the guys that will be leading this team into the future.  How do you view that situation?  I imagine more the latter than the former.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Well, we're always the favorite and we haven't won in a while, so maybe the underdog would suit us well.  That being said, I can't say because I've never been in the team room for the Ryder Cup.  I don't know what goes on.  But I don't think it would be bad to have a couple of guys chomping at the bit to get over there and play some golf.
DAVE SENKO:  Thanks, Lucas.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT