CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 6, 2006
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH:  We'd like to welcome Lucas Glover with a 5 under 66 into the media center.  Nice going out there today.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Thank you.
JOHN BUSH:  If we can get you to comment on the round for us, please.
LUCAS GLOVER:  It was good.  Got off to a good start, made a pretty good putt on 1 and then hit a couple iron shots close next four holes, and 3 under through 5.  That was uncharted waters recently, so that was nice.

Pretty solid after that, one bad swing with a wedge on 8, and that was my only bogey.  So that was pretty solid.
JOHN BUSH:  Go ahead and take us through the card real quick starting with the birdie on 1.
LUCAS GLOVER:  1 was driver, 8 iron about 15 feet, hit the putt, walked off, thought I left it a foot short and it went in, so I thought it might be a good day after that.

2, good par.

3, par.

4, hit 9 iron about a foot, two feet, so that was good.

Then the same thing on 5.

Nice up and down from the left rough on 6, the par 3.

Then I made about a 20 footer on 7.

Good drive on 8, kind of between my two wedges, took the longer of the two and still left it short, made bogey there.

Birdie on 11, hit driver, 3 iron just up by the green and chipped it up six feet, made that one.

16, driver, 9 iron about 10 or 12 feet, made that one.
Q.  This last month has not been your greatest month.  What's gone wrong and why did it turn around today?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Well, just had some trouble there a couple weeks before the Open and was working on some stuff, and it never really came around.  I think I was thinking about it a little too much, so I decided today that we'd play golf instead of golf swing and just get back to what I had been doing that I was doing well, and that was just thinking about anything but my swing when I was over the ball, and that was pretty good.
Q.  Overthinking?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, I think I was getting in my way a little bit.
Q.  Those two that you hit into two feet, how far were those shots in?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I think I had 147 on 4, and then 5 was 184.
Q.  What did you hit in on 5, 9 iron?
LUCAS GLOVER:  4 I hit 9 iron, 5 I hit 7.
Q.  I'm sure you've gotten questions about the Ryder Cup all summer since you're in the running.  What's been your thoughts on that, and has anybody given you advice about    every two years we see guys who have bad summers because they're trying so hard to play their way onto the Ryder Cup team.  Has anybody given you advice about that whole topic?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Not really, just I probably could fall into that first category so far.  Nobody has really said anything.  I just remember a couple years ago how bad Jay Haas wanted it and seeing him    I guess that was my rookie year out here, and then when he was at home seeing how bad he wanted that.  That kind of showed me then what a big deal it was having a 30 year veteran, or 25 years at the time or whatever, how much that meant to him.

I'll put a call into him the next couple weeks for sure just to see what he thinks and any thoughts he could give.  I don't want to bug him, he's playing too good.
Q.  What's it like to be in the mix or be in that position or getting asked about maybe playing in the Ryder Cup?
LUCAS GLOVER:  It's great.  It's as big an honor as it gets for an American golfer is to play for our country in the Ryder Cup.  That was the goal starting out the year was to make that team.  Luckily last year kind of gave me a chance to play good this year and make it, and that's been the No. 1 goal.
Q.  Do you think these low scores will be    are the greens soft enough that you can go right at it?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Oh, yeah.
Q.  Do you anticipate it's going to be low scoring all the way through?
LUCAS GLOVER:  If we don't have any rain, scores will increase just because the greens will firm up.  But today they were pretty receptive just with the cool temperatures and everything.  But there is a little breeze out there, and if that keeps up, it'll get firm and fast and it'll play pretty tough come Sunday.
Q.  If I asked you to explain the FedEx Cup scoring system next year, can you do it?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Could I?  No.  Don't want to.
Q.  Just thought I'd check.
LUCAS GLOVER:  No.  I probably should, but same thing as anything else; if you play good, it doesn't really matter.
Q.  In terms of the greens here, how do they compare to other greens on Tour?  Are they softer generally speaking week to week?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Well, with the last month we've had with as wet as it's been, they're firmer.  But I'd say they're the norm.  Usually Thursday is pretty soft and receptive, and then barring torrential downpours, Sunday is pretty daggone firm.  I'd say speed, they're comparable to anywhere else, as well.
JOHN BUSH:  Lucas, thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT