VERIZON HERITAGE
April 11, 2006
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Lucas Glover to the 2006 Verizon Heritage.  Off to a great start, 24th on the money list, four top 10s, over halfway to your best of seven last year.

What's gotten you off to this great start this year.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Putting has been a little more consistent.  This is the first time I've ever done anything on the West Coast to speak of, really.  And unlike last year, I played really well this time of year, early spring hasn't been that good.  But putting has been more consistent and a lot more patient with myself.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about how much that victory, the end of last season, did for your comfort zone out here on Tour.
LUCAS GLOVER:  It did a lot.  You get all the good stuff that goes along with winning, you get the middle tee time, so you get a little sleep from the early one.  And you get    I got in a lot of big events and a little more comfortable with the exemption for two years.  But that helped a lot with confidence and then being comfortable.
TODD BUDNICK:  Your experience at your first Masters Tournament last week.
LUCAS GLOVER:  It was good.  I didn't play that well, obviously, but I had a great week, and just kind of had to make myself stop and look around and just take it all in, especially Friday afternoon on the way out, I just kind of stopped and looked around.  And I obviously want to be back, and not playing well, probably motivates you than playing well, especially there.
Q.  Did you leave after your round on Friday, what did you do?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I did.  I went home.  I'm only two hours from there.  I packed up my locker, got in my car and headed home.  I had Saturday off and played golf early Sunday morning with Jay and Charles, and then drove down here Sunday afternoon.  We've got kind of a family vacation going for my wife's mother and sister.  We're having a good time with them.
Q.  What do you have to do this week, just keep it between the trees, first of all?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, it's    you've got    it's like any week on a demanding course.  You've got to drive it straight so you can get to the greens.  Unlike any other course we play on Tour, you can hit it in a lot of fairways and not have some shots at some flags.  And that's why 10, 11, 12 under always wins here.  You have to position it off the tee and be smart around the greens.

There's no roof, to speak of, but the trees and the angles make it plenty hard.  And then of course you have to putt.  Most of the time you hit the green, you've got 25 feet, one way or the other.  So being smart and conservative a lot of the time doesn't hurt you here, because nobody ever goes super low, because of that.
Q.  You've played here a couple of times, but does it feel any different coming here off of that Master's experience?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I think it would have if I had played the weekend, because I'd probably be a little more fatigued, but I had a nice weekend off, unfortunately, so I had that downtime to get focused on here.  This is one of the three or four favorite courses we'll play all year and favorite tournaments.  After Friday afternoon happened, I was kind of thinking, well, let's go recharge at home and get ready for Harbour Town and have a good week there.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LUCAS GLOVER:  We were all so competitive with each other.  We always    nobody ever talked about it, but we always had a tournament within a tournament, and that was on our team.  We had    Jonathan was first team All American, I don't know how many years.  John Engler, Charles his second year.  It was nice, if you finished the highest on your team, pretty good chance you were going to have a good week.  And that kind of drove us, and it's still like that.  Charles and I talk about it.  We see each other on the leaderboard and we try to chase after one another.  That kind of drags was along out here, just like it did in college.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LUCAS GLOVER:  Everybody was different, just like any other team sport or any team or any group of people, everybody was different.  But when the bell rang on the first tee, we were all doing the same stuff.  But that's what makes the world go around and different people.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LUCAS GLOVER:  Harbor Town or the Tournament?  I think when I was 11 or 12, we played a 9 hole deal on the back nine, I think.  That's probably about right.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LUCAS GLOVER:  They had the tournaments all around different areas of the state, and then if you did well on those, you got to come here for that.
Q.  Did you win?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I don't know, I don't remember.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, but we never played this course, we played over at the other ones.
Q.  What is your first memory of Augusta?
LUCAS GLOVER:  That's a good question, too.  Probably the jacket.  Probably wouldn't wear that very many places.  I don't know, I don't remember watching it as much as a kid or anything.  Be nice on the jacket quote, please.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, I'd wear it everywhere, promise.
Q.  (Inaudible) do you look at them as playing a different style than you at all?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, I've said this before, I'm kind of new age off the tee, where if I'm hitting driver, I'm going to try to hit it down there as far as I can, and then when I get out to the fairway, more kind of old school, I like to hit different shots and stuff.  And that's just because of a little experience.  The young guys, the rookies or whatever, they might not do that yet because they're still young.  But it's working.  And it works on Tour, because they want to see birdies and that's what they do.  And they're very good at it.  Camilo, J.B., Bubba, those guys.  They hit it forever, but they know how to get it done.  That's the bottom line.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LUCAS GLOVER:  No, first time I ever came to a tournament was the first year I played, I want to, say, '02.  That was the first time I'd ever been down for the event.
Q.  How much of your family is here this week?
LUCAS GLOVER:  My mom and my grandfather got here yesterday.  My wife's family entirely will be here tomorrow.  I've got aunts and uncles coming, cousins, pretty much
Q.  Are they all staying together?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I don't know.  I hope not.  That will be another fight I'll have to deal with (laughter).  My family will be together.  We've got my wife's family a place.  I asked for the cousins and aunts and uncles, here kind of on their own.  I don't know what they're up to.  I'll get the call tomorrow for tickets.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LUCAS GLOVER:  Neither one of us has.  They told us probably around July.  So we're waiting.  It's going to be a cat fight for that thing, too.
Q.  Why has it taken so long?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I don't know.  Well, I never came home from the West Coast, and the paperwork was sitting in the mailbox for a month.  So it's probably my fault.
Q.  Does that sort of tie into your graduation from Clemson last year?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, very much.  I like to leave stuff sitting in the mail and my wife cleans up after me, anyway.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT