THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 31, 2018
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well done.  Tell us the things you did exceedingly well and how you got to where you are.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I putted well.  I hit it decent, putted well.  I hate to bogey the last, bit of a misread, but good stroke and a good putt.  So I can't get too upset about that.  But real solid and played well.   
 Q.  Is the last putt a little more disappointing because you made such a great chip from that tough spot.  
LUCAS GLOVER: It's one of those things, we say it doesn't matter anymore than the first one, but it sure feels like it when you go to sleep on it.  But, yeah, bogey-free going into there.  I wanted to make that one and just it always feels good to have a clean card, I guess you could call it.  But, yeah, it was solid.  I hit two nice shots into 18, a nice chip and a nice putt, tough hole, big deal.  Mindset of the evening, I guess?   
 Q.  But the chip itself looked really difficult?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it was.  I had to kind of play it a little right because I didn't want to go all the way down and got it a little hot.  But I made a nice play after what I thought were two good shots and didn't get a nice result, so I'm okay with it.   
 Q.  Was it a little tougher mentally to get prepared for this tournament, just considering everything that's happened?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Nope, they're all hard.   
 Q.  A lot of the guys were saying early that the course was playing pretty soft.  Does that seem how it was still playing through your round?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, definitely soft.  No roll in the fairways.  Maybe a bounce here and there, but no roll at all.  And it was odd, the front nine we all had a lot of mud in our group.  The back nine, we didn't, which I thought was kind of weird, but that's the way it was.  However many guys are playing had to deal with it, so can't complain.   
 Q.  Does that seem to play well into your game?  
LUCAS GLOVER: It's always nice wherever it lands it stays.  If you get a little sideways on the fairway it doesn't roll through or something.  But everybody likes soft conditions without mud.  Nobody likes it with.  But that's the way it goes.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
LUCAS GLOVER: I'm going to stay away from that stuff.  I made some statements the last couple weeks I'm just going to have to refer to that stuff and I would prefer to talk about today, if that's okay.   
 Q.  Could the golf course kind of be a sanctuary for you, a place that you can be at ease?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Sometimes.   
 Q.  Did you feel pretty good today out there?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I mean that's just -- it's another round, really.  I mean, it's not -- nothing different.  I've played here a bunch, I've played a lot of golf, and just wanted to play well and have a good attitude.  That was the mindset today.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the last two weeks as far as your preparation for this?  Did you practice more, did you put the clubs away after THE PLAYERS for awhile?  
LUCAS GLOVER: It rained 13 out of 14 days at the house, so there is an indoor facility that was available, but there was a line of TOUR players to get into it at the Bear's Club.  So I got done what I could and I got here with a good mindset and a good swing thought and carried it into the day well.   
 Q.  What do you like about this place?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Milkshakes are awesome.  No, just coming here, it's Mr. Nicklaus's place, and I'm lucky to get to practice at his other place in Jupiter.  And I'm comfortable here because there's a lot of familiar faces that come here for the summer.  So I get to see a lot of familiar faces.  But I've always liked the golf course here and the hospitality speaks for itself and just, it's just got that aura around it and it should.   
 Q.  A lot of guys down in south Florida kind of pick Jack's brain about stuff.  Do you find yourself doing that when you see him around the club?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I haven't, but do I listen a little more when he's around.  I said this yesterday.  I got to go over to the maintenance shed and spend a little time with those guys who obviously do a whale of a job here.  And one of them asked me about him being around down there and here also, and there's 20 TOUR players there, approximately, and when he's there you always see people out with the video and he's still the man.  But I feel like he's open to it, I know, but I do listen.  I haven't had the nerve to ask him anything yet, but I was with him in 2007 for Presidents Cup as captain and it was just, he's still, he's still larger than life to me.  So it's more listen and don't say a whole lot.  And Mr. Player was around a lot this off season too, so I got to just listen to him and hear him.  And pretty cool spot to be able to hit balls and those two guys are warming up and testing drivers, getting ready for the first shot at Augusta and stuff like that.  Pretty cool.   
 Q.  I've been to the Bear's Club but I'm not familiar with their indoor practice facility.  What do they have available to you and the guys?  
LUCAS GLOVER: They've got several teaching pros there that and they've got two hitting bays in the back with all the equipment and if they're not teaching they leave it open for us.  Just some guys know how to work the stuff, I don't, but it doesn't rain in there, so.   
 Q.  Have you got a chance to see Shinnecock at all, and all the changes they did?  Plan on going there?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I was there a year and a half ago and oddly enough I wasn't playing, I just happened to be there the day they opened the new back tees, and they told me I was a guinea pig.  So I did get to see it then.  I've got a good friend that's a member and on one of the Committee's.  He's been around a lot the last few weeks and he said it's good.  I'm not planning on going up.  I used that as practice round then.  I know it's going to be a lot different, but I'm planning on playing next week as of now.   
 Q.  Did you play in the 2008 U.S. Open?  And do you have any -- whether you did or not, do you have any remembrance of Tiger and what he did that week?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I did not play, but I watched a lot of it.  I can't remember if I tried to qualify or not.  I think I might have been in my fatigue stage and might have taken that year off.  But I don't, I didn't play, I do remember watching it.  Obviously East Coast prime time and, yeah, that was quite remarkable.  Probably one of the guttier performances in golf, I would say.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT