THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 1, 2005
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  We want to thank Lucas Glover for joining us here.  Lucas, I guess first we can talk a little bit about the win at Disney for those that didn't get to talk to you about it yet.  Obviously one of the best finishes on Tour this year.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, I guess.
CHRIS REIMER:  Talk a little bit about getting into this field.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Obviously it's a goal earlier on this year.  Win a tournament, be exempt for The Masters and play in the TOUR Championship.  Getting here was the last goal fulfilled, so I'm pretty pleased.  I've still got some work to do for the Top 30 because of the opposite event this week, being Bubble Boy, so I've still got some focus, so that's good.
CHRIS REIMER:  Your impressions of the course so far.
LUCAS GLOVER:  It's beautiful.  Some changes from the last time I was here.  I played the U.S. Am in 2001.  They didn't have a lot of new tees, so there are some changes I'm trying to get used to.  But it's beautiful, and the zoysia fairways, if they were to stay dry, are always the best fairway from a lie standpoint, and obviously the rough is up and it's pretty tight, similar to last week, more uniform in height, whereas last week you could get some fair lies and some bad ones.  This week they're pretty much all pretty rotten.

It's going to be a good test for everybody this week.  You've got it get it in the fairway and hit it on the right level of the greens and be careful with some of the putts.
Q.  What does Top 30 do for you?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I think a lot of the World Golf Championships and maybe the British and PGA.  I don't exactly know, but I know the WGCs, if you get here and stay in the Top 30, then I'm pretty sure that with the exception of the Match Play, I guess, because that's World Rankings, straight off.  That's what I've been told.  That's where my information is coming from there.
Q.  I think it's one of the majors, I'm not sure, maybe U.S. Open is about it.  You're already in the PGA.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Sweet.
Q.  And The Masters.

Have you had any interesting incidents with people since you've won, either players coming up to you or out in public after your victory?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Not really, you know, just a lot of congratulations and "good going" and "nice job getting here" has been kind of the call this week.

But everybody has been very nice.  Nothing really out of the ordinary, just, I guess, friends being friends and just congratulations, same way I do when a friend of mine wins or just a person that I see that won the week before.  You might not know them that well but you always tell them "good playing."  That was pretty much the case the last week and a half.
Q.  Do you look at yourself differently, say that bunker shot runs past and you don't win that tournament, you're not here and you're sitting at home.  Do you think you look at yourself differently as a player sitting here today as a winner and a Top 30?
LUCAS GLOVER:  No, because, first of all, I probably wouldn't be at home; I'd be in Jackson (laughter).  But that just changes things from a status standpoint on Tour.  You know, the confidence remains the same when you're preparing, same preparation, but when you go out and you say, "well, I have done this before," looking at myself on Sunday, if I'm in the last group or second to the last group playing well, then that's when you start relying on confidence from a win.

But nothing will change, personality obviously or preparation or focus, but just the exemption and the status is all that's really changed for me.
Q.  I'd be curious, when you finished at Tampa, where did you go right after you finished your round, and how much did you sweat it out that you'd be here after you finished?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I went straight to the locker room, paid those guys and went straight to the computer.  I was playing behind Charles, I knew he passed me, I saw Chad was playing well, I knew he was going to pass me.  Tim was playing good, and I thought, well, that's going to be close.  I knew I had passed Geoff, so four people have to pass me.

Shigeki was playing well.  If he makes that putt on 9 on Sunday I'm in Mississippi right now and not here.  That's how close it was.  It was a nail biter, same as Disney, I guess some things just work out.
Q.  What kind of computer were you working at?
LUCAS GLOVER:  The Tour, the ones they give us, the IBMs.
Q.  So you had the adjusted money?
LUCAS GLOVER:  No, I had my personal one.
Q.  Did it show adjusted money?
LUCAS GLOVER:  No, I was doing that.  I was doing the math I've been doing since college (laughter).  I didn't do a lot then.
Q.  Can you fathom at all how much it meant for you to qualify for this tournament and get here and someone else who qualified and decided not to come, like with Phil?  Is that hard for you to imagine?
LUCAS GLOVER:  For me it would be because this is my first one and this was a goal.  He's played every year since, what, '94.  But coming from the West Coast to the east coast for one week, the kids, holiday for children yesterday, he has his reasons and that's his right.  That's his opinion and that's his decision.  But for me I wouldn't miss it.  But then again, that's my side of it, that's me.  I don't think it's any more than him just wanting to be with his family and it's a long way to travel for one week, and then he goes right back home.  That's just personal preference, I guess.  I can't say one way or the other because I don't know Phil, I've maybe spoke to him twice.  But I wouldn't miss it.
Q.  Could you talk about how your year evolved?  You had a lot of good finishes the first half, late summer was kind of dry and then you turned it around and had a pretty good fall.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Right.
Q.  Looking back on it, what were the reasons?  Were there reasons behind it or was that just kind of how golf goes?  Talk about how it felt to you.
LUCAS GLOVER:  I've always been pretty streaky, the same way in high school and college, even the Nationwide Tour.  I had that six or seven week stretch in the spring where I was playing really well and putting extremely well, and that's kind of my swing thing is when I putt well, it's usually pretty good.  The ball striking never varies a lot.

I went through some issues in the summer where every part of my game was pretty average.  Nothing even stood out as good and missed a lot of cuts in the summer and even early fall and then just told myself, back to basics for the end of the year, and I went back to work and just kind of turned it around, just gained confidence each week.

Greensboro played pretty good, Vegas played pretty good until the weekend and then Disney played good each day.  It was just kind of a building process with confidence, similar to what I had in the spring because each week seemed to be a little better, had a couple chances to win and this and that, and then Disney came around and confidence was pretty high, preparation was good, and what happened happened.
Q.  When you say you go back to basics, what does that mean in reality?  Are you without a swing thought or do you practice some fundamentals?  What do you do?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Alignment, ball position, make sure I can draw it.  That's pretty much it.  If I can't draw it, that's my shot, then it's going to be tough.  I'm still working on it a little bit here.  I mean, it's as basic as you can get, alignment, ball position, and then just a couple little swing keys that I have, and that's it.
Q.  I wonder if you could talk about how busy you're going to be for the next two months, prefaced by the question of when did you set your wedding date?
LUCAS GLOVER:  December the 3rd.
Q.  I know when it is, but when did you set it?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Late June.
Q.  After you had pretty much secured    I guess I was thinking if you wondered if you might be at Q school.
LUCAS GLOVER:  No, I knew I wouldn't.  It's going to be real busy.  I've got a shower next week and the next week and the next week (laughter), then I get married, and then I go honeymoon, then I come back for a fundraiser we have and then I graduate from Clemson on the 22nd.  That will be pretty cool.  I have a busy two months.
Q.  When are you leaving for Hawaii?
LUCAS GLOVER:  The Thursday before.  I don't know the dates.  A week before.
Q.  You're graduating from Clemson?  How did that happen?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I'm taking a class on line, four hours short.  I had to mail in the diploma.
Q.  Is that like the USC quarterback; are you taking ballroom dancing?  Is that what he's taking?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I'm taking biology, a little different than sea kayaking.
Q.  When did you leave Clemson?
LUCAS GLOVER:  2001.
Q.  How short were you when you left?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Four and a half years.  I went back an extra semester to try to graduate, and I had a professor kind of
Q.  You're going too fast.  You left Clemson in '01?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Fall of '01.
Q.  How short were you then?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Four hours.
Q.  Went back a semester when?
LUCAS GLOVER:  That semester.  My eligibility was up in the spring, went back for the fall.
Q.  For four hours?
LUCAS GLOVER:  No, I took 18, but I came up four hours short because I turned pro and was playing and went to Q school, professor was a "bleep," so when I knew I was going to be out here next year and could do it this fall, I decided to do it.
Q.  Why did you decide to do it, personal pride?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I started it and I went back, took a semester that I could have been playing golf every day and tried to graduate and didn't, and said, well, I know I can do it in the fall and I'm going to do it, and this was the first opportunity that came up, so I decided to enroll.
Q.  Because your card was set for the next year?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Correct.
Q.  And your marriage was set?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Correct.
Q.  So she wouldn't marry you without a degree then, right?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Well, I've got to get all the work in by December 6th, so I've got three days' leeway there.
Q.  What's your major?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I don't remember (laughter).  Speech and communications.  Can't you tell (laughter)?
Q.  You had to have biology to get a degree in speech and communication?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, nice choice on an elective, huh?  I failed it my freshman year, so I had to go back and redo it.  That whole Tuesday Thursday at 8:00 o'clock thing was what did it (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT