BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2005
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Lucas, for joining us in the media center here at the Bell Canadian Open.  Great start this week in your first appearance in the Bell Canadian Open.  Interesting round there, eight birdies, you drew yourself a bogey and a double bogey, but it still was a good day.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, it was feast or famine.  Just hit a lot of greens, made a few putts and then made a bunker shot on 11 to kind of get things going after the double.  Birdied the next three after that and a couple chances late, 16 and 18.  Didn't make a couple short putts, 8 , 10 footers for birdie.  Can't be disappointed with 65 around here.
Q.  You mentioned kind of a feast or famine kind of day, and looking at your results, it seems that's the story of your year, 21 tournaments, and you missed the cut 11 times and the other ten times you made it, you've got six Top 10 finishes.  Is that an aggressive, kind of go for it style, or is that just the way it's shaking down for you?
LUCAS GLOVER:  If I knew    that stretch in the spring, everything was kind of going right.  I was hitting the ball well and making some putts.  And then more towards the summer, I've got my swing got a little out of whack, confidence in the putter went away, but it has been that kind of year, you're right, where I feel like if I make the cut, play well on Thursday and Friday, I've done well in the past on Saturday and Sunday.  So just getting there is a comfort because I feel like I'm kind of a closer, especially on a Sunday stroke average is pretty good and that's just the mentality I had in the spring, I felt like every time I got to Sunday, I was going to play well.  Even though I didn't, I still had that    when I didn't, I still had that feeling which is a good feeling to have.
Q.  I don't know if you talked about what happened on the ninth hole?  You had it going and then
LUCAS GLOVER:  I hit a 3 wood into the fairway bunker, kind of under the lip and tried to open up a 7 iron and just hit a high cut and didn't cut, hit the stands.  Behind the stands, actually got a good break because there's a hazard over there, you'll never see it, but it's over there.  You know, I was this far from going down on the beach over there.  That was actually a good break. I did get a drop from the stands and on to the next one and flew it over the green and 2 putt for six.  I came in, after Tuesday I came in and played thinking this course is more of a major course.  Everybody is going to have some foul ups and mess ups, so just stay patient.  Made a solid par on 10 after the double and things really got going on 11.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Let's go through the rest of your round, starting with No. 3.
LUCAS GLOVER:  3, the par 3, it was just a normal 6 iron.  I actually hit    wasn't actually trying to hit it on line with the flag because you can't go long and right.  It actually stopped six or eight feet behind the hole.  Jay Delsing was three inches behind me, so I got a perfect read, made that one.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  6, the par 4, 428 yards, dog leg right.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Driver, 8 iron about three feet behind the hole, downhill right to left.

7, the par 5, that was my lucky putt of the year.  Drove it in the right rough and had to wedge out.  Hit a pitching wedge kind of below the rise on the green about 35 feet and made that one.  That's when it kind of looked like a good day when those start going in.

So 8, hit a 4 iron to about five feet and that was the shot of the day for me.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  9, we already talked about.  And 11?
LUCAS GLOVER:  11, driver, 7 iron on to the green side bunker.  I made that one; you really think your day is going well.

12, 8 iron 173 or 174 to the hole to 15 feet behind the hole and made that one.

13, driver, wedge to six feet.

14, I drove it over the green just through the green over the back fringe and trickled it down to six inches par.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  The bogey on 15.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Driver, left, laid up okay, wedge shot over, poor pitch to about 12 feet and missed that one.
Q.  Heading to tomorrow's second round, knowing that you're going in the morning, do you expect there to be as many birdies available out there as you got in the afternoon?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Well, there's give and take with the early/late or late/early.  In the afternoon the rough isn't as bad because the rough is trampled down and not as wet, but in the morning the greens will be softer.  So if you hit it in the fairway, opportunities will be there; but if you miss, the rough is much more penal.  But if you drive it well, I think so.
Q.  You had a couple of probably you would call makeable putts coming down the stretch, do you feel as much as 5 under is a good score on this course, like there was more there for you?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Well, a double and a bogey and then missing    I missed another one on 4.  I just struck the ball well, hit my irons really close and you can't make them all.

You want to say, yeah, I left three out there, but then I'd have to talk about the bunker shot I made and the 40 footer I made on 7.  There were some I could have made, and, you know, I wish I would have, but not disappointed with anything in the 60s on this golf course.  It is a major style golf course and it's unbelievable.
Q.  You had a tie for 40th around there at Deutsche Bank last week, is there anything in your game in the last little while that's improved or picked up or any sign that this was coming?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I guess Friday and Saturday, first two rounds last week, I hit the ball as well as I've hit it in the spring, my little run I had.  I just didn't make any putts.  Hit it the same today but I saw the line real well on all of the putts.  The ones I missed were either just bad speed or maybe a touch of a misread.  I hit the ball the same as I did earlier last week.  I just made the putts today.
Q.  Inaudible?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I was in between a 7  and 8 iron, usually with the wind it's a good 8 iron for me.  I just felt with that much wind and trying to cut it out of there, I just fan it open a little bit and just didn't cut up, and one of those things.
Q.  Inaudible?
LUCAS GLOVER:  This afternoon, not very because of everybody walking through it.  Around the greens is a little less, there's some clumps, you can get in behind one or in front of one which is pretty tough.  Along the fairways, it's very consistent and it's consistently hard.
Q.  Your run in the spring, can you take us quickly through where it was and what you did?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Well, I had the deal in Atlanta, I guess that's the week before Augusta.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  And New Orleans you played well.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Tucson, Atlanta, New Orleans.  It was similar today.  I just had a couple of weeks I went on a roll, eight weeks, whatever it was.  A break here, a break there and there you go, right in the mix.  Just happened a lot on Sunday.  Honda was another one, 63 on Sunday.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Tucson you opened up with a 64.
Q.  Where else have you played in Canada?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I played the Toronto Nationwide event in '03.  It's nice.  I've never been, I was telling Dana on the way in, I've never been to the northwest, or gone once for Nationwide, and the first trip this far west in Canada.  It's beautiful.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT