THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 13, 2005
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What was your read on that last putt?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Just left edge into the grain, and so I could have hit it but, I don't know, I guess either I -- who knows.  I was shaking so much, I don't know what happened.  I was nervous.

I think the 6-iron lipped out on the second shot, and, I don't know, it's all right.  It's the same as yesterday.  The last hole makes it worse.  I doubled 18 yesterday, 2-over, just felt terrible to do that, and shoot 63, you're kicking yourself for feeling bad, but I do.  I don't know, I just hate to finish like that.
Q.  Talk about the other 17 holes.  You had a heck of a round going.
LUCAS GLOVER:  I did.  I got off to a good start, finally.  That's this whole golf course is killing that front nine.  Three birdies, an eagle, and I 3-putted 7 for bogey to turn in 32 and started seeing the name up on the board and just wanted to, I don't know, just be more aggressive.

The back nine, the thing is, it's hard, but if you're saying, let's make par, you're going to make bogeys.  So finally I made myself think about hitting close, hitting in the fairway trying to make birdies instead of goofing around and trying to make pars and be smart; that was for Thursday and Friday, you know.  And I finally got some good yardages and I putted great.  That was the worst putt I hit all week, honestly.  I don't think I had -- I couldn't have had more than 24 putts.  I made one off the fringe, so that doesn't count.

Just one of those days, all of those 6-footers for birdies went in.  I played a good 18th hole; it was just a bad putt.  Drive and 6-iron to four feet and missed the putt, you know.  It's like we always say, it's the one you remember.
Q.  People say 13 through 18 are the toughest yet you birdied a four-hole stretch there.
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yes, I made a good 8-footer on 13 for par.  Made a bad first putt from the right fringe.

Then I hit it a foot on 14.

Made it from the back fringe on 15 from about 14 feet,.

Hit it five feet on 16 and 2-putted 17.

So it wasn't hard.  It wasn't like I was making 40-footers, but, you know, my iron shots finally got close.

63 on Sunday, you've got to have good yardages, and I think every good player will tell you if you shoot that; every club you pulled was perfect for the wind, the yardage, it really is, it's true.  I wasn't having to hit many half-shots and hook it around the trees and get it over the slopes and this and that.  It was just every time I looked up, it was 153 into the wind, full 8-iron.  Whereas, you know, yesterday it would have been 149; do I try to kill 9 or hit the smooth 8.  It was a good day, good yardages and just to shoot that, you have to putt good and that's what I did.
Q.  What kind of year have you had?
LUCAS GLOVER:  This was my second cut and I think it was my sixth event.  My only cut I made was Tucson, and that's how I got in here, actually, because that was before the re-shuffle and in my category.

I don't know, I didn't play here last year, I didn't play a tournament in Florida in the spring.  I played a couple late.  I was looking forward to getting down here and trying because I love these kind of golf courses where you actually -- it's a ball-hitter's course and your short game has to show up.  I don't think anybody is going to hit 16, 18 greens every day.  If you do, you're hitting it unbelievable or hitting really well out of the fairway.  Sooner or later, your short game has to show up and it's a challenge.  Tomorrow when I get home, I'm going to say, short game feels pretty good after playing here for six day, six rounds.  I just like these kind of courses.  I was anxious to get here because of what I heard about it.
Q.  Are you anxious to come back next year?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Absolutely, if they will let me.
Q.  What's your caddie's name?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Don Cooper.
Q.  Have you guys been together for a while?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, it will be two years in August or something, something like that.  He was with me on the Nationwide in 2003 and it was just a match perfect right off.  Brought him out last year, and I don't know, he's good.  He's just like me, he's goofy and country and it's just a perfect fit.
Q.  Have you shot 63 before?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I think that's the low round on TOUR.  I had a couple 64s last year.
Q.  Even on the Nationwide?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I think that is my low round on the PGA-sanctioned, affiliated, however you say it.  I had a 62 in practice, wasn't a tournament round.
Q.  Playing against -- inaudible?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah, actually.  Actually, D.J. Trahan and I shot 62 on the same day on a course we played, Pickens Country Club.  I had a putt like that to shoot 61 and missed it.  (Laughter.)

Growing up in the summertime I had would I go down to the beach and just south of Myrtle Beach, Garden City area, and my grandfather had a membership at a course there.  So I grew up in the summers putting on this stuff, so I don't mind it.  It is a little tougher to read, because bent, you know, it's just what you see is what you get.  Bermuda, you've got to think a little bit more.  Contrary to what most people think, I can actually do that.  So I like it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT