MCI HERITAGE
April 17, 2004
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Were you aware of the score board?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I heard our scorer trying to correct it, and so all my buddies at home are thinking I shot 65.  Casey in the tent there said he was going to change it, unfortunately.
Q.   They gave you a birdie on
LUCAS GLOVER:  10.  I actually saw the board behind 12 and knew something was fishy.
Q.   You'd take it?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I'll take it right now.  I might not get to play tomorrow, but I'll take it.
Q.   General comments?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Just came together today.  I was telling these guys earlier, I've been hitting it good and putting bad or putting good and hitting bad and today I did both.  And I still had a couple of bogeys from bad swings, but I'll fix that tomorrow and see if we can get another low one.
Q.   What's your familiarity level with this course, have you played here before in this event?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Two years ago.
Q.   As far as just plans of the course?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Not a lot, really.  I'm from upstate, and getting down here is pretty crowded.  But when I was a junior growing up, we had kind of an All Star event when I was 10, 11 and 12.  It was a treat to come here and play the back nine.
Q.   Do you remember how you did in that?
LUCAS GLOVER:  No, I don't.  I think I might have shot 40 or something.  I don't know.  But I hadn't played here all that much.  Two years ago all the practice rounds and this year the practice rounds and that's probably as much as I know the course.
Q.   Does it feel good to get back home, though?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yeah.
Q.   Is there a different feeling than if you're playing Florida?
LUCAS GLOVER:  I had the same situation in Atlanta two weeks ago, close to home     actually, closer to this, to be honest with you.  But you've got 25, 30 family members, friends, friends of friends, that kind of thing, and it makes it easy, makes it fun.  So it's always good to have a home game.
Q.   What were your expectations coming into the week?
LUCAS GLOVER:  You know, we all expect to win every week and it doesn't happen.  I had a good week of practice last week, I went and saw my teacher.  Things started clicking with my ball striking, and I knew if my putting was good I'd be okay, I'd be in good shape.  And late yesterday and today it kind of clicked, everything.
Q.   People want to know who your trainer is?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Dick Harmon, he's in Houston.  He's director of golf at the Red Stone, where we'll be next week.
Q.   You're committed, you'll be playing there next week?
LUCAS GLOVER:  Yes.  I don't know if I'm in on the number, but Steve Tims gave me a spot, whether I'm in or not, so I'll be there for sure.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT