ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2018
Chez Reavie
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. In at 12 under.  Now, you guys played in this event together last year.  What did you learn about your partnership that can lead to success today and the rest of the tournament?
CHEZ REAVIE: You know, I think we play very similar games.  I think we read putts very similar as well.  I think this year we were both a little bit more relaxed and comfortable with the format and played better.
Q. And it certainly showed.  Lucas, a clean, bogey-free for you both of you guys out there.  How were you able to get that consistency from start to finish?
LUCAS GLOVER: Well, Chez started well and I picked it up in the middle of the back nine.  He closed it off and then we both played really well on the front.
Just kind of ham and egged it, I guess, as they would say.
Q. And listening to you guys out there, there was ton of communication, collaboration, reading each other's putts; more than we saw with other teams.  How do you think you guys were able to feed off each other?
LUCAS GLOVER: We read them right early, and that just gave us good feeling for the rest of the day.  Chez birdied the first two; we were dead on with both the reads, so we just kept it going.
We changed maybe a ball or two in a direction one way or the other and that was it.  We were pretty right on.  Luckily we were hitting our lines also.
Q. Lucas, Chez, what a great start.  Wouldn't say it's ham and egging, double portion of ham today.  Got off to a hot start and kept it rolling.
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, you know, we both played really well.  We both had a lot of good looks all day, and I had some good looks and then he made some good putts and I didn't have to putt it.  It was a lot of fun.
Q. How big was the hole looking coming in there, Lucas?  It felt like it was bomb after bomb out there on that inward nine.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, that was good.  5, 6, 7 made some pretty good lengthy putts.  You know, like to have had that one on 8 back.  I think we misread Chez's just a tick on 9, but we had a bunch of good putts and we were reading them right.  That's important in this format.  Get as many putts as you can and start getting it on your mind to make some putts.  The greens are perfect.
Q. You talk about the reading, and I was watching you out there.  Second year playing in this format together.  You guys really work together a lot.  How did you come to the decision that you really wanted to be as collaborative as possible when you're accustomed to playing an individual game 51 weeks out of the year?
CHEZ REAVIE: I think we're both really good ball strikers.  We wanted to strategize properly, and so I would lay back in some of the fairways and let him get more aggressive on the tees.  We seem to read putts very similar together, and kind of the way we pick spots and certain points of the line.
We're just very comfortable helping each other out.  If I tell him something and he's not all in, then he's going to do what he wants and I'm completely good with it, and vice versa.
Q. How much has that helped you transition into tomorrow when you're playing one ball?
LUCAS GLOVER: Same.  We got our strategy.  We had 27 holes of practice alternate shot this week, so pretty comfortable the holes we'll tee off on.  We'll do a lot of the same.  It will still be a lot of strategy and do we want to be aggressive here and lay back here.
You know, get off to a good start reading the greens together, we'll keep doing it.
Q. Obviously you guys finished with a 60 today.  Felt like there was some pretty gettable holes out there.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, wasn't near as breezy as we thought.  The rain laid down right as we were teeing off on 10, so we got a little fortunate with that, but we played well.
Chez got off to a great start, I kind of started coming on, and then we both -- it was almost like every other hole there for a while, so we did our job today.
Q. Interested how you guys attacked it.  Some guys we talked to just played their own ball and didn't really get any input from their partner.  How did that dynamic work for you?
LUCAS GLOVER: We played together last year and we know what we wanted to do.  We played together Tuesday, played together yesterday, we're good friends, and when it's working, you keep doing it, you know.
Team game this week.  I feel like you got to get some input and get some approval for some things you might want to try or not try, and we did that and we did a good job today.
Q. Chez, how early in the round would you say you guys knew it was going to be a good day?
CHEZ REAVIE: Well, once the rain stopped on the first tee it was going to be good day I would say.  Yeah, I had a good look on 10 and then made a birdie, and then made a longer putt on 11.
We were just rolling.  I think we're comfortable.  We like to laugh and have a good time when we're playing golf, and it definitely helps.
Q. You guys attack tomorrow's format any differently than today?
CHEZ REAVIE: Well, it's going to be different because I am going to have my holes and he's going to have his.  He has certain strengths I don't have and vice versa.  And so we're going to play our own game, and at the same time put each other in the best spots possible.
Q. Lucas, do you feel like you feed off each other's energy?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, absolutely.  There was a stretch there when Chez was hitting it 10, 12 feet every time, and if I was hitting it first I was trying to put it in the middle of the green.  Couple of those times I made the longer putt; he didn't have to putt, which is good.
But I think in a format like this you get one guy really striping it, the other guy get it in the middle of the green and get him comfortable, and there was a stretch there where I was trying to do that.  I wasn't trying to hit it 50 feet, but I was trying to hit it 20 and try to let him try to hit it 10, and it worked.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT