DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2017
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you know that Grayson got a hole-in-one about 60 seconds before you?
LUCAS GLOVER: No.
Q. Did you hear the roar?
LUCAS GLOVER: No.  Where was he, on the front?  8?  No, I didn't know that had.  I had no idea.
Q. How many do you have in your career?
LUCAS GLOVER: Seven.
Q. All in competition?
LUCAS GLOVER: Five in competition.  Seems backwards, doesn't it.  But only a few of them were actually good shots, and that was one of them.
Q. Can you just walk us through the shot?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I was between 7 and 8 the whole time, and benefitted hitting third.  Phil and I hit our irons about the same.  He hit a smooth 7.  Looked like it landed hole-high and bounced, almost through, and then Poults hit a small 7.  I hit my irons just a hair further than him, so it was just a firm 8.
When I hit, usually when I'm swinging okay and hit aggressive shots, they draw, which nice set up for that hole location.  I was trying to hit it between the tent and the TV tower and draw it in and that's where it started.  Thought it might be pretty good when it was in the air.  I didn't know it was going to be in but yeah, always nice to see a good shot go in.
Q. Where would you rank that one in the others?
LUCAS GLOVER: Well, I didn't get a car (laughter).  They are all -- honestly, they are all the same, because you hit a nice shot, and the excitement and the adrenaline; step up on 117 and hit a 3-wood 25 yards farther than I usually hit it because I was so pumped up.  It was awesome.
Doing it with Phil and Ian, who are encouraging and intense and enjoy that kind of moment, they were great to be out with to do that, in front of.
Q. Have you won a car before?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, a Mercedes a hundred years ago.  Kapalua.  Hit the big hookup off the hill, rolled back in.  That one was garbage (laughter).  This one was legit.
Q. You won a Mercedes?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah.  Pretty good.
Q. Still driving it?
LUCAS GLOVER: No.  Taxes were too high (laughter).
Q. Looked like it was good for the group.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I think it juiced up everybody.  Two great up-and-downs by them on 17 and I hit a nice shot and didn't make the putt, and they birdied the last.  Yeah, everybody hit some nice shots coming in.  Always kind of gets the group going, a guy playing well or something; you tag along, stuff like that.  It was cool, obviously.
Q. I saw you give Phil a little thumb's-up after the pitch shot he hit on 18 --
LUCAS GLOVER: No, I don't have that one.  I was joking with Poulter because they hit some pretty unbelievable pitch shots there.  Phil's ball was rolling out and I told Poults, "I would like to see, watch you around the chipping green," because their short games are amazing.
And he looked at me and winked, "He's got me."  We're walking off 18, he goes, "See." (Laughter) No, that was awesome.  Phil is a treat to play with.  His talent's amazing.  Playing with one of the best in the game for two days, and he's so cordial out there.  We had a nice time.  We had a nice group.
Q. Didn't get a skin --
LUCAS GLOVER: We'll work the fishbowl out in the locker room (laughter).
Q. Obviously you don't want to go right on 18 but everybody ended up in similar position.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I know this, because Phil and I, our balls were a yard apart and we were both dead in between 5 and 6.  For me, when I try to hit something hard, I usually pull it a little; and for him, I think when he tries to hit something hard, he pushes it a little.
I think we both said within earshot of our caddies, the bunker's fine.  It's hard to miss over there.  You know, short side and all that.  That bunker shot is no big deal, which you saw where I had to pitch for my fourth shot.  You can't actually hit it there unless it's an accident.  Just the way the hole sets up.  Anywhere left there is no good anymore.
Q. The wait; you were out there for a good ten minutes.
LUCAS GLOVER: It was fine.  If it was 40 degrees or something, might have been an issue.  A bunch of practice swings; believe me, after last week, I'll never complain about having to wait (laughter).
Q. Can you talk about what Mickelson would bring to The Presidents Cup?
LUCAS GLOVER: I was in two teams with him, 2007, 2009.  Played a fair amount with him in competition.  Yeah, if you've got an option to have him around on or off the team, it would be a benefit.  And I don't know how anything stands.  I have not looked at anything.  I do not know.  But in 2007, 2009, just the competitiveness, the humor, the passive-aggressive, just, I want to beat everybody.  And it feeds off, it does.  Just great for a team and really great to play with out here, also.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT