THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 26, 2017
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lucas, can you just explain the incident?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it was just trying to hit a hard 5-iron, hit the side of the slope and just it was a little browned out, I guess and just didn't have my footing all the way.  Downswing and right foot was gone, and just felt a little twinge.  Not really a pop, thankfully.   
Didn't think I could put weight on it at the time.  So just kind of laid down like a sack of potatoes, and once it got under me, I didn't know whether to move it or not.  Still had a little pain.  I just wanted somebody that knew more than me to tell me what to do.  I never meant to cause any problems or that much attention and I hated that it came to that, but I didn't know and I was kind of scared.   
So I just said, I'd better get some first -- some professional advice, rather than me try to be a hero and get up and do something worse.   
 Q.  So you've just come out of the Player Performance Center, what did they tell you while you were in there?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Did a full ultrasound with a doc on site, and nothing torn, thankfully.  Had some inflammation and a little strain of patellar tendon.   
Feels pretty good now after ice and stim.  But I think according to them, overnight will be when it swells up obviously.  But I have a therapy machine in the room that I travel with for ice and compression, so they said use that all night and they don't see any reason why I can't play with a little brace tomorrow.   
 Q.  I feel like I probably know the answer to this, but did you consider not finishing?  
LUCAS GLOVER: No.  Absolutely not.  First couple guys put me on a stretcher and I laughed at them.  I mean, only way I wasn't going to was if I couldn't get up.   
So you know, finish play tomorrow and I've got a few extra days the next couple days before Boston but I don't see any problem.   
 Q.  What was going through your mind when you were laying on the ground there for a few minutes?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Just first of all, don't do anything dumb.  Wait for somebody to tell you to move.  Second of all, felt bad, making Grayson wait and those other guys, having them in a weird situation.  Then I felt pretty rotten about that.  But I just -- don't do anything stupid.  Once I got it out from under me, I felt pretty good about it and I feel a lot better about it now after chatting with those guys and having a scan.   
 Q.  There was a lot of people out there, including some policeman.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Did that surprise you?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, that's what I -- joking, I said, "I hope nobody threw anything at me or shot anything at me."   
Like I said, I'm not big on attention so that was a weird situation for me.  I just didn't want to do anything dumb and hurt myself further if it was bad.   
 Q.  What was the hardest part going forward, hitting the next shot or getting up the hill?  
LUCAS GLOVER: The stairs, actually, from the green to the scoring trailer.  I had not put full pressure on it and that was kind of a test.  Yeah, I was tired of holding Grayson up, so I was going to get up the hill as fast as I could even if it hurt.  Numbed up right now, so it feels all right.   
Yeah, just didn't want to do anything dumb.  Luckily doesn't sound like I could have.   
 Q.  The machine you have, do you use it for recovery usually or just you travel with it?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I've got a bad left knee, too, so I use it for that, honestly.   
 Q.  Since you've had knee problems before, I'm sure you've had to battle those; are you concerned tomorrow about how this might limit your action with the golf swing?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I'm pretty limited as it is.  I don't know if I can -- I don't know.  That will be for in the morning.  The doc, I guess the Giants team doctor is here.  He said tonight, swelling in the morning will be kind of the telltale.  He was positive, since I have the therapy machine in the room, he said "If you can get on that a bunch," he said, "I don't think it will be that bad."   
But it was just that initial twinge and kind of sting and then the fear is I was as scared as I was hurt.  I didn't know what was going on.  Just didn't want to, I didn't know if I pulled my leg out from under me, if it was going to really hurt or if it was going to pop something out of place or what.   
I made some practice swings out there and a few more in the locker room before I came out.  I'll play.  Just see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT