SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 4, 2019
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Outstanding round of golf there. No one makes everything, but I thought you had great looks at three more birdies at 6, 7 and 9.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, the front nine was more of the back nine. I hit a whole bunch on the back and the front and a lot yesterday. Kind of due for some to go in, and they did. I made more long ones than the short ones, believe it or not, the 10-, 12-footers but made a bunch of those 25's.
Q. Ball-striking has been really good, 32 of 36 greens. Tell me about the eagle on 16.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I got kind of a good break off the tee, I hit it down the right and just got far enough to where I could go. Had to hit about a 15-yard cut but I had a good number for it, and it just landed perfect, rolled up there, and sounded like it almost went in, but I couldn't have two of those in a year. But that was nice. I executed the shot I saw, and it just turned out perfect.
Q. That's right, you had that albatross back at 10 at John Deere. Your putting has become so revitalized since going to the left arm lock. It's not just a left arm lock but it's a forward press. What's the loft on your putter, 5 degrees or something like that?
LUCAS GLOVER: It's about 7. It's about 7. That's how I grew up putting was a big press. About a year and a half ago just decided I needed to go back to what -- we always talk about trying to putt like a kid. I said, if I'm going to do that I've got to set up like one, like I used to, and that's been a big help. Just you know as much as anything, confidence breeds confidence, so you see some go in and see the short ones go in, it just builds, so there's no other way to simulate it other than to do it, and I've been doing it lately.
Q. What's the confidence level going into the weekend?
LUCAS GLOVER: Same as any weekend. It's going to be a shootout. Looking like a 5-under cut, I think, so I'd be foolish to say I can just hang on. I've got to go out there and shoot 10 or 12 more. Just stay aggressive when I can be and be smart when I have to be. If the putts go in, fine. If not, keep rolling that line end over end. That's all I can do.
Q. You put together a pretty impressive second round. Seemed like the cup was probably looking a little bigger. What led to a good day putting?
LUCAS GLOVER: An average day yesterday, I think. Just hit a lot of good putts yesterday, didn't make much, but to do that and shoot 4-under was okay.
Q. What was working so well out there for you today?
LUCAS GLOVER: I hit it about the same as yesterday and just made a few more putts. Hit one real close on 16 that kind of got things going. But I think I made more from 18 plus than I did from 12. I hit it to 12, 15 feet all day and hit the hole a bunch and make a couple long ones there on the front. Seemed to be reading them right, just not making all those 10-, 12-footers, but I don't know, you can't make them all. I had 32 birdie putts out of 36 holes I was just told, so that's pretty good. Just got to keep doing that and make a bunch more because it's going to be a shootout this weekend.
Q. You've had a lot of success here in the past. What is it about this place that plays well for your game?
LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I was kind of thinking about that a minute ago. I'm not sure. Seems like all the most important tee shots are draw shots, and I like to hit a draw, and then I've played here a bunch, so I feel like I know the greens pretty well, where to miss it, where not to if you're in trouble and all that stuff. Just good experience around here. Anytime you come to a place you've had success, you feel a little better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT