THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2017
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had a no bogey stretch.  
LUCAS GLOVER: It was great.  Some good up-and-downs on the back nine and got back in position when I got out of position.  And made a few six-, eight-footers for par and keep that going, but happy with 67.  No bogeys.  Played well.   
 Q.  Just the conditions out there this afternoon?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Absolutely perfect.  Eight, ten miles an hour wind and the fairways are perfect.  The bunkers are perfect.  And the greens are perfect.  Pretty perfect, just what you'd expect here.  Always feel good coming here because you know that's what you're going to get.   
 Q.  If I remember right, your best performance was your first time here.  Why has this place been tough for you?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know.  I love it, so I'm not going to try to think about that.  But I love it here.  Don't know.  Can't answer that for you.   
 Q.  With your birdies, none of them were over 15 feet.  What does that say about how sharp your iron play is right now?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I think it was more of I hit a bunch of par-5s in two.  I hit it in two on 5.  Wedged it close on 11.  Was right up by the green on 7 and knocked it on 15.  Those were my four birdies.  The only other one was 1.   
But that's kind of what you've got to do here.  For me, you've got to play the 5s aggressive, pretty conservative on the par-3s and go at some pins if you can on the par-4s.  And that's my mindset each da here.   
 Q.  7 or 8, whatever the score is, in these conditions does that surprise you?  Does that seem right?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I mean, these guys are pretty good.  Pretty good scoring in perfect conditions.  The guys are going to make putts on perfect greens.  And if you get a guy pretty sharp with your irons, you'll make a bunch of birdie putts and going to make a bunch.  No surprises.   
I guess it's David right now, and he loves this place, obviously.  Heck of a round, obviously.   
 Q.  You've had extreme highs, the U.S. Open, and lost your card.  Just the up-and-downs of being a pro golfer.  How have you managed that, to appreciate where you are now?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I always appreciate where I am.  I'm happy I'm on the T-sheet every week that I want to play.  I've got the best job in the world.  I had a few bad years, but find me somebody on Tour for 14 that hasn't.  That's how I look at it.  That's about all I can say to it.  It stunk, but I'm better for it.   
 Q.  How so?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I had to fight for my job back and I did it.  I put my mind to it, and did it.  I could have given up and felt sorry for myself.  Could have said I'm too good to do this.  I didn't do that.  I put myself here, let's go get out of it.   
 Q.  And what did you do?  Were there improvements in your game you knew you had to make?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I had to putt better.  I had to putt better and go back to hitting draws.  That's what my eye sees.  You've got to putt well out here and I didn't do that.  I've always been a streaky putter, but it was a bad streak for a long time.  I think I've got the formula now and it's up to me.   
 Q.  Did you feel like you were going to have a good event?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I shot 10-over last week.  But as we've seen with a lot of our winners, it doesn't matter.  I'm not saying that as a knock against them.  It just shows you how up and down this game is.   
You've got guys missing cuts for three or four weeks and then winning huge tournaments.  That shows you how talented everybody is out here and how quick it can change.   
I had a weird week last week, didn't play very well, didn't get any breaks, went home and worked on it and here I am.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT