THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2017
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sum up the week.
LUCAS GLOVER: Solid overall, I had it going pretty good today and just, I hit what I thought was a pretty smart shot on 14 and hit 3-wood 380 yards into a bunker with a bad lie and no shot.  Smart play ended up being the wrong play.  That kind of got me off the rails a little bit.
Next hole, another fairway bunker and I couldn't get both feet in.
So, but my history here making the cut's a plus, so top-10's pretty good.  Pleased with how it went, just mis-club on the last and misjudged the wind a little bit, hate to end with a bogey after birdieing 17, but it was a good week, I was happy with how I putted, happy with how I pitched the ball, and that's been a focus the last few weeks, so all things being said, pretty good week.
Q. This course is always a challenge, but with the wind doing what it was, how much more did that affect play today?
LUCAS GLOVER: No, the wind's hard here and this was our, this was a different direction.  It's rare, when it's warm, that you get, the best way to say it is, downwind on the range.  When it's warm, you're used to warming up into the wind.  But a warm north wind here is weird.  We used to get that a lot in March.
That being said, 180 degree difference from yesterday.  So where you would hit 3-wood and be long, we were all hitting driver as an example.  A little different golf course, a little different strategy, but any wind around here just puts an onus on hitting your numbers and if you don't hit your numbers here, you're not going to be putting for a lot of birdies.
Q. Almost nobody's scoring today, everybody's really having to grind.  Is that what this should be on its last day at this tournament?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I think when the conditions are firm and fast, this place is always going to be a grind.  The fairways play narrower than they are because the ball's bouncing and the greens are smaller than they are, because they're bouncing, and they're already small enough.  Couple that with the severity of them, you got to hit your numbers and you got a bunch of crosswinds or down winds or into the wind, it's hard.  Pitching and long putting here isn't easy either because of what I just said with the slopes and around the greens and stuff.  So, yeah, it's no surprise it's not going low.
Q. Would you describe this course as uncomfortable, would that be fair?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah.  Yeah.  Every shot, every shot you hit virtually if you don't hit shot you need to, you could make a number pretty quick.
You look at 3 and 4, on paper pretty blah holes, right?  Well you miss the green on 3, good luck.  Miss the fairway on 4, good luck.  Just because of the Bermuda and the bunker on 3 and the Bermuda rough on 4.  Yeah, you get out of position here, it's a masterful design, if you're out of position, because if you're out of position you usually have no angle.  And even on the greens a heck of a shot getting it close is a miracle shot.  So it's one of those courses you stand up every shot and it's, I need to hit a good one here or a decent one to have a chance at a birdie, make an easy par.
Q. You birdied 11, go 8-under, got a share of the lead, but then it kind of falls apart for you.  Did you change your thinking at all?
LUCAS GLOVER: No, no, I had 11- in my head, I wanted to get to 11-.  I didn't know I was tied for the lead at the time, to be fair, but I had 11- in my head.  I wanted to keep pressing, I wanted to get to 11-under.  I knew I had 16 and I knew I had 14 with help, I knew I had 13 with help and, to be honest, I hit a nice shot into 13 right, but it bounced over.  Actually hit my first bad short putt of the week.  Just under read it, kind of fanned it a little bit.
14 was what I alluded to earlier, I hit a beautiful shot right down the middle of the fairway and the 3-wood went 370 yards.  I don't hit it that far.  Now I'm behind the tree, I got no lie, and made five.
And then 15, missed the fairway by four feet and I got ball in a bunker and my feet not in the bunker.  No chance there either.  At the same time I never should have been there, so it is my fault ultimately.  The fact that I was tied for the lead, not knowing, I can't sit here and tell you that had any affect on it.  Because I still hits some nice shots after 11.  Great up-and-down on 12.  I hit a nice shot on 13, went over.  Hit a nice shot in 14 and it went in the bunker.  So it's not like I started fanning it, if that's fair to say, just I didn't get it done, I didn't execute some difficult shots that I needed to execute.  Missed the fairway again on 16 and made par there, felt like that had to be a birdie to get something going again, but solid week overall.
Q. Did you look at the leaderboard?
LUCAS GLOVER: I didn't today, honestly.  I did on the front.  I wanted to see where I got to on the front when I got it 3-, 4-, 5-under or 3-, 4-under and I wanted to see where that was.  Then starting on the back it was head down, let's make two or three more, let them stare at it, because it's not easy out here.  I stayed aggressive, I didn't play conservative and I'm not blaming bogeys on that, the bogeys were because I was aggressive.  I can live with that.  I can live with that.  If I would have started playing safe and hitting a bunch of average shots and making bogeys that way I would be even more upset.  But I knew 5-under through 11 was pretty darn good and I had a chance at this thing, but I wasn't going to put the brakes on and just say, let's make some pars because these guys are too good that were with me and ahead of me to do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT