ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2017
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another great day.  69.  Before we get into the ball striking, which has been great, there's also been some beautiful up-and-downs.  2, 6, 7.  Was scrambling a key today?
LUCAS GLOVER: First eight holes were pretty flawless and starting on 18, I had to scramble a little bit.  I got up-and-down on 18, 1, and I missed a couple on 2 and 4.  Missed some opportunities on the front, but pleased with where I stand after two days and pleased with my putting, pleased with my ball striking.  Got to take advantage of the par-5s a little bit more.  I was in good shape on most of them yesterday and today.  So, but an afternoon off, hanging with the kids and refocus in the morning.
Q. Sounds like a lovely afternoon.  My colleague this week Mark Immelman suggested this is a second shot golf course.  Your iron play has been beautiful for the first two days.  Would you agree, second shot golf course, and if so, you've got to be happy that the irons are on cue.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I mean second shot course, if you get it in the fairway.  There's room out here, but you got to get it in them.  The rough's pretty brutal.  I had to lay up a couple times, 18 and 1.  And I was fortunate to get those up-and-down.  But if you're hitting it good and in the fairway good, you're going to have some opportunities.  Greens are so good, conditions are so perfect, there's birdies to be had, but you got to be in the right position.
Q. We're asking players this week to share a story or memory or maybe even a lasting image of Mr. Palmer.  Does anything come to mind, especially this week after walking for 36 holes here?
LUCAS GLOVER: I was fortunate and honored that Mr. Palmer even knew my name, because I didn't play in his generation.  But every time I came here, he knew my name and was respectful to me and I returned that favor.  And all of us out here owe a lot to that man and I'm honored to be here this week and every week we get to come here.
Q. If slow and steady wins the race, you put yourself in a pretty good spot.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it's been solid.  Nothing great, nothing terrible, but just a solid couple days.  There's some birdies to be had this afternoon, there's going to be some low scores.  Conditions are perfect and nice and warm and the golf course is in such good shape, guys are going to make a bunch of birdies.  So I look for some good scores this afternoon.
Q. What do you think about Bay Hill?  You've been coming here a lot, how do you like it here at Bay Hill?
LUCAS GLOVER: I like it here a lot.  I had some success here.  Nothing great, but I always get good vibes when I get on to the course and a lot of shots fit my eye and if you make some putts, you can play well.
Q. What's it mean coming here to this tournament, what does it feel like for you being here and those that showed up and kind of what does it mean for you differently this year than years past?
LUCAS GLOVER: No different.  I came here for the same reason this year I came for all the other years.  So, I don't fault or criticize anybody for their schedule.  I'm here because I like the place and feel like I can play well and everybody else here does the same.  So that's all there is to that.
Q. Second straight round in the 60s here at Bay Hill.  69 here Friday.  Talk about your round.
LUCAS GLOVER: It was good.  I got off to a fast start.  I had to hold it together on the front a little bit.  I missed some fairways, missed some greens, but very pleased to have two rounds in the 60s.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT