ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 16, 2017
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice score.  How do you feel about it?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Good.  I felt good on the range warming up and when I saw the scores, I thought anything in the 60s would be great.  Very pleased.  It's playing tough out there, the winds are swirling a little bit.  But the greens are lightning.  The offense was good today.  Made a bunch of birdies.  So keep that up.   
 Q.  You made two 2s out there on par-3s, par-3s are really challenging around Bay Hill.  Let's look at this one at 14.  Talk us through this one.  
LUCAS GLOVER: I basically had a good number and a good wind.  I hit a draw and I hit it right-to-left going in.  I tried to land something in middle back, everything feeds toward the hole from there.  I executed my line and had a left edge putt down the hill.  You don't have to worry about getting them there this week.  So basically a good number and executed the shot I was looking at there on 14.   
 Q.  We have seen over the years 18 has caused havoc among the players.  But for you on the back of the bogey on 17, great way to finish here.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, same thing, good number and a good wind for my shot.  I had 163 to cover, 169 hole, and that's in between a 7 and an 8 and I can hit my draw and hold it up against the wind a little bit and it went the right distance and curled it in the low side there.  So very pleased birdieing the last here always.   
 Q.  You won a few times on TOUR and there's a great opportunity to win a big event here, but how much is this week about honoring Arnold Palmer?  
LUCAS GLOVER: It's great.  Just seeing his cart on 16 tee in his spot was really cool today.  What we did yesterday, I thought that was really brilliant and yeah, it's great week and we all miss him dearly.  He was a legend and I'm not sure any of us would be here at the height that we are in this game without him.  So, tip of the hat to Mr. Palmer and everything he's done for the game and for us.   
 Q.  Great opening round.  Quite a display with the irons.  You went flag hunting especially on the back nine out there.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I had a bunch of good numbers.  Any time you get, you feel comfortable with your number and you can hit full shots, you feel like you can hit it close, especially when you got some firm fast greens, you got to put some spin on, nice full shots are always key, and I had that a lot, which was fortunate.  You get a bunch of in-betweeners, sometimes you have to play away from some flags.  But I had a lot of good numbers today and good winds for my shot.  But you still got to execute and I did that today.  So very pleased.   
 Q.  Obviously a change in temperature, especially on the back nine, it started to warm up.  You actually went on a bit of a mini run on the middle of your back side.  Did it loosen you up a little bit, start to feel a little easier out there in terms of conditions?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, definitely better end of the draw today.  Going to be cold in the morning, obviously.  I had a good warm-up, I was good and loose.  I had a good stretch this morning and I felt pretty good all day.  I was warm, but it did, the ball started going about the proper distance on the back nine.  It was a little shorter early for us even.  I can't imagine how it was for those guys this morning.  But good to finish the way I did, always like to birdie the last, and make dinner taste good.   
 Q.  Did something click last week in Tampa?  Solid finish there.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, just kind of still working on the same stuff.  It clicked Thursday, Friday, Saturday last week.  Sunday was a struggle.  But I had a good session yesterday and a good warm-up today and I had a bunch of good numbers out there and could hit some full shots and it felt good, felt loose, and everything was clicking.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT