SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 6, 2016
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you describe your final round?  
LUCAS GLOVER: We had a great time.  It was a great group, and we played some good golf.  I had a couple of bad shots down the stretch, but I was pleased with the way I handled myself.  I got a little loose on 16 and 17 and then tried to stuff one in on 18.  But I mean we had fun.  We made putts and hit good shots and played good.  The quality of golf in that last group was good.  Rod putted unbelievable after missing a short putt on 12, so kudos to him for regrouping and making the putts he made.  He played great.  And Brooks it Brooks.  He can overpower any place.  And we just had fun.  We actually did.  We had a good time and a lot of chatter and laughing and good golf.   
 Q.  Take me through 17.  It seemed like it was really close.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah.  It was five yards, eight yards right of where I was looking.  I was looking just a touch right of the hole.  It went in right to left, and I pushed it.  It was just an average swing.  Could have been a little better.  But just wasn't a great swing.  Momentum wise, 16 tee was the one that hurt because I'd been driving it down there eight irons in and hit that one.  But that was the turning point for Rod got up and down, and that was awesome.  I mean he played great.  So congratulations to him and his family.  It was awesome.   
 Q.  You there next week?  
LUCAS GLOVER: No.   
 Q.  I know disappointing not to win.  But got to be really pleased with the way you've started this season.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah.  I haven't put four rounds together much less two weeks together in about five years.  So I would have loved to have won today.  But perspective is a wonderful thing.  And I didn't hit the shots down the stretch I needed to, and Rod did.  And Brooks did.  So that's why they had the putts they had on 18 and I didn't.  Bottom line.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT