SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 5, 2016
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lucas, kind of a middling start through eight holes.  How crucial was that 9th in jump starting your day?
LUCAS GLOVER: Well, 8 was the one.  I made, I don't know how long, but a really long one, really, really long for me.  It's nice to see some of those go in.  And then hit two great shots on 9, made the putt, and that kind of got things going.
Yeah, it was kind of slow, just didn't have the speed of the greens down the first few holes, but that long one went in and kind of got things going.
Q. What's it like when you get one putt to fall and then it seems like the rest of your game starts to fall into place?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, well, finally got the speed right on a long one, and if I could hit them a little harder -- they were firm but not as fast as they've been, which is hard to digest for us when we see them brown and kind of baked out, which is good.  The ball is bouncing and it's fun, but it's hard to adjust to the speed if they look and feel that way, and I struggled with it through seven holes and got a little more aggressive on 8 and kept that going.
Q. You were kind of cruising along early and then got busy 8, then the big eagle on 9.  Your thoughts?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, that 8th hole was kind of the catapult.  I made that long one and two great shots into 9 and turned in 3-under and kept it going.  Just speed wasn't good through seven holes.  I hit some good shots, but they weren't getting to the hole.  And then on 8 I had a nice uphill one that I could get aggressive with, I mean long way away, I don't even estimate how far, but it happened to trickle in, and my speed was good the rest of the day.  So pleased with that.  But we've got a shootout ahead of us tomorrow.  I like where I stand, but you're going to have to play good tomorrow.
Q. You're looking really sharp with the putter on the greens.  What's the key?
LUCAS GLOVER: I've been busting my hump.  No, just a grip change.  No, it's pretty common out here now, but I went to that claw a couple weeks back and just tried to get my shoulders more involved, and I've really been working hard, and it's starting to pay off.  18 holes tomorrow, and see how many we can make because I'm going to have to make some.
Q. You played the par-5s pretty well.  It seems to always be the key to winning out here.  Is that part of the game plan when you come out to Vegas every year, make sure you try to take advantage of them?
LUCAS GLOVER: You have to every week, to be fair.  But here, yes.  I don't prepare for it at home like say you would hitting a draw at Augusta, stuff like that.  But I mean, you know when you get here that you've got to take advantage of them.  They're all reachable, and if you hit good tee shots, they're all reachable with irons.  I haven't played 13 so well, but the other two I've done okay on.
Q. What about your wedge game?  Are you happy with it?
LUCAS GLOVER: No.
Q. What's wrong?
LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know, I've always had trouble with the distances here.  It goes a little bit further than where I grew up and where I live, and a lot of trouble here short, so I find myself 20 feet long on a lot of my wedge shots.  My direction has been okay, I've just been over the flag a bunch.  That's just being confident in my number and frankly my math.
Q. It's just a guessing game, isn't it?
LUCAS GLOVER: No, there's a formula.  I mean, it's about 10 percent in the afternoon, about 5 percent in the morning.  You know, when it's about seven and a half, that's when it gets tough.  That's tough math.  So tomorrow we'll get both, which is fine.  It's just trusting numbers and trusting myself after that.
Q. You've made some good runs here in the past, but you've never been able to get to the top of it.  The experiences you've had in the past, what have you learned from it that you can maybe put to use tomorrow?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I think today kind of showed you've got to be patient around here.  There's a lot of birdie holes, and if you don't jump out early, there's still a lot of birdie holes, and you can make hay about anywhere on the course.
Q. Is it hard to be patient, though?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, of course.  We all want to birdie every hole.  But yeah, I proved it today.  I proved it a bunch last week, to be fair.  I didn't get off to good starts last week and still had a nice week.  That being said, that'll be the mindset tomorrow, be patient, and I'm playing well, opportunities are going to come.  It's going to be a shootout.  Don't get me wrong, there's going to be some scores, and it's going to be fun.
Q. A lot of young blokes have won this in the last few years, but there's a few veterans up there now.  Are you guys trying to prove you can still match up with the young ones?
LUCAS GLOVER: Sure.  I don't hit it as far as those guys, and I'm not as big or fit or whatever as some of them, but if I chip and putt well, I think I can play.  I'm not out to prove I can beat anybody, I'm out to prove I can play the golf course and beat it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT