SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 28, 2016
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lucas, good playing out there.  3-under par 69.  I know you wanted that last putt there at the ninth.  But this golf course looks like it's starting to get a little tough out there?  
LUCAS GLOVER: It is.  Balls are bouncing a little bit.  Harder to hit some of the tight fairways, but if you do it's playing a little shorter so you can attack a little bit.  Not a lot of rain around here, and the greens are so good they're going to firm up which will be fun for the weekend.   
 Q.  Difference between the first round and today?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I made putts yesterday.  I hit it a lot better today, actually.  I was 10, 12, 14 feet all day today and then did a lot of what I did on 9.  Just a lot of those that look good for a while and don't go in.  Just going to go work on the speed a little bit, keep that up and come out tomorrow and try to get off to a better start.  Slow starts but good finishes the last couple of days.   
 Q.  Growing up playing a lot of golf in the Southeast, you gotta like this kind of golf course, don't you?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I do.  Unfortunately I got good at reading lies out of the rough today, but I did well.  But yeah, I don't mind it.  These are the best -- some of the best greens we'll have all year, if not the best, especially in the Bermuda department.  They're amazing.  So yeah, they do a great job here.   
 Q.  Good playing today.  You're right there.  See you this weekend.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Thanks.  Appreciate it.   
 Q.  All told for you, a really good day just the one dropped shot.  What was the key today?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I hit a lot of greens again, a lot of fairways for the most part.  If I did miss a fairway, I did a good job of reading the lie and getting it on the green.  I just didn't make as many putts as yesterday.  Had a lot like No. 9, just on the hole and didn't go in or just on the edge.  So just go work on it a little bit and make sure I'm starting on my line, keep my speed up, try to get some tomorrow.   
 Q.  Everyone's talked about this.  What does reading the lie mean and how much of it is skill?  How much of it is guesswork when you have a lie in the rough like that?  
LUCAS GLOVER: A little of both, but I grew up in Bermuda rough, so you guess more -- or you gotta read it a little more Bermuda than you do other stuff, in my opinion, because it's a lot easier to catch a flier in Bermuda.  So it's reading it whether you think it's going to come out soft or hot.  And if it comes out hot and you pick soft, you're in trouble, as I'm sure we've seen and I've done a few times myself.  But when in doubt you kind of play for the flier.  If it comes up short, that's usually okay around here.   
 Q.  We heard what you were saying there about you hit a lot of greens again but just didn't make the putts.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Just like on that last putt, I mean were you around the hole most of the time?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I had a bunch of 10, 12, 14-footers today, a lot more than yesterday.  Just didn't make them.  I missed my line a few times and then hit my line a few times; they just didn't go in.  Just gotta go work on it a little bit, keep my speed up, some of them will go in tomorrow and hopefully Sunday and we'll see where we stand.   
 Q.  It seemed like there weren't quite as many like really low scores today.  Was the course playing a little harder today?  
LUCAS GLOVER: You know, I didn't look at the board this morning, but traditionally here morning is a little easier just because you get a little softer conditions and the greens are a little bit smoother.  They can't be much smoother, but a little bit smoother.  So I can't speak to that, but as for the afternoon, it didn't look like there was many mid 60s as yesterday afternoon because I was in the hotel and checking the board, checking on some buddies and stuff, so I saw that.  But yeah, the course is playing great, it's firming up and I don't think there's still any rain in the forecast, so should be a fun weekend, ball striker's course and the greens are still perfect.   
 Q.  What do you think about your chances and yourself going into the weekend and how do you evaluate where you stand?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I think this might be the third year in a row I've been in the last four or five groups starting Saturday, and last year wasn't that good.  But you know, I'm playing well, I'm hitting the ball where I'm looking a lot and hitting the putts where I'm looking at lot.  So just gotta stay patient and do what I'm doing.  I'm not going to press tomorrow to get off to a good start, but I'm going to focus on this first couple of holes tonight laying in bed and try to get off to a little better start.  I was even and 1-under the last two days I think through nine holes, and my back nines have been my bread and butter, but just get off to a little better start and see if we can't get something going.   
 Q.  Yesterday, like David said, seemed like there was a lot better scoring.  Are you a little surprised someone hadn't jumped out a little bit higher?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Well, I mean we still got a chance.  There's guys with six, seven holes to play, I think.  I think Greg's got two or three holes to play and they're birdiable.  It wouldn't surprise me to see 11, maybe 12 if some guys get hot coming down the stretch.  But I hadn't been 9-under for two rounds in a while, so I'm pretty happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT