SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2016
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lucas, I really admired your patience out there.  You make eight straight pars before you kind of birdie the ninth and take off and shoot 66.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it was a test of patience there early, just wasn't hitting it close enough.  Made a couple par putts in the middle of the front there to kind of stay at par, thankfully, and that kind of got the confidence going in the putter, and then I hit it nice on the back and birdied the 5s and birdied the last, which is always nice.  Yeah, good start.   
 Q.  There's been points of your career you've been frustrated on the greens.  Any changes?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Not since Safeway, no.  I've decided to stick with something and just work on it and try to get some confidence.  I putted pretty well at Safeway, just didn't make anything, and I was on the wrong side of that draw.  Just didn't make any six-, ten-footers, and I did that today.  I'm working on the right stuff.  There's going to be ups and downs.  I usually hit it great and don't make much, and today I hit it average and made a bunch, so it flip-flops.   
 Q.  You still managed to hit 15 of 18 greens.  Tell me about the grip on your putter.  It's flat; there's not many people using that out here.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Oh, there's not?   
 Q.  You're a little bit different, a little bit wider, a little bit flatter.  
LUCAS GLOVER: I'm not a tech guy.  I don't know that much about it other than it feels good and I've got big hands, and that big flat side feels pretty good.  Yeah, thanks to those guys for getting one in my hands, and it feels pretty good.   
 Q.  It's a SuperStroke, just a little bit wider than usual, and you put both thumbs on it?  
LUCAS GLOVER: No, I'm clawing on the bottom hand.  That was the big switch from the off-season, the three-week off-season to Safeway, and I'm liking it, just kind of getting the shoulders move involved and trying to take the hands out as much as possible, and it seems to help with speed and start it on my lines.   
 Q.  It was a start where you managed to get a lot of pars and then took off; what really went well for you starting with your first birdie on 9?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Finally hit one close, you know.  I had to make a couple -- a six-footer and about a 12-footer for par in the middle of the front to stay at par, so I knew I was rolling it well, I just had to hit it a little bit closer on the greens and was able to do that the last 10 holes, and the stroke felt good, and I started hitting it how I was supposed to, and I played well.  Happy with how I played.   
 Q.  We've seen a lot of different weather conditions at this golf course now.  This seems to be what everyone has looked forward to playing since they began playing here at the Country Club of Jackson.  How did you feel the golf course held up today?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Golf course was great.  Golf course was great.  Yeah, 14, quite cold, but the course played firm because of that, and then last year pretty much a wash-out unfortunately, but this course plays great.  It's an old-school southern golf course and some of the best Bermuda greens I've ever played.  The course is good, and it's firming up.  Supposed to be limited humidity and pretty warm, so it could be quite firm by Sunday, which would be a lot of fun.   
 Q.  What gives you optimism going into the rest of the season the way you're playing?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Just feel like I've got a good plan.  Working on some stuff in my swing pretty hard, working on my short game hard, and I've got a plan, and I'm trying to execute it every day and just improve.   
 Q.  Excellent start; just get some comments on your round.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it was good.  Slow start but stayed patient and had to remind myself to do that because I had some birdie opportunities, didn't cash in, but made a couple nice par putts on 4 and 6 to kind of keep the round going.  Even though it was just at even par, but just to get a little bit of confidence in the putter, and starting on 9 I started hitting it close and made a bunch.  If I missed, it was on the hole, so pretty pleased.   
 Q.  You played really well here last year the first two days, and I remember you talking about how much you liked this course, how it fit your game.  Obviously the same thing happened today.  Can you expand on that for us?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I grew up in the South, grew up on Bermuda fairways, grew up with Bermuda rough, and the greens I grew up on weren't quite this good Bermuda, but still pretty darned good.   
I'm just comfortable.  I'm pretty good at reading the lies if I miss a fairway or miss a green, and I just like it.  It's a good driving course and hit a bunch of greens, you can make some putts because the greens are so good.  It kind of plays into my game.  I usually hit it pretty good and straight enough, so it's a good course.  Good course for everybody.  Nobody has an advantage because it's in such good shape, but if you hit it in the fairway, hit it on the greens, the greens are absolutely perfect.  Guys are going to make putts all week.   
 Q.  Can you expand a little bit on how on certain courses certain players play better there, whether it fits them or whether they have a confidence level?  Did you come here thinking, hey, I like this course, I have a chance to play better here?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Well, I've been out here long enough, it's so week to week, you come to a place because you like it, but you have to learn to limit expectations.  I'm not ever going to -- I would say the biggest example for me would be Quail Hollow in Charlotte.  I play really, really, really well there, but when I get there I can't walk on the first tee on Thursday and go, I'm going to play this week.  You have to temper the expectations, but the comfort level is there.  I'm comfortable here.  I like it.  It's familiar, and a lot of shots fit my eye.  There's a few that don't, but that's every course.   
 Q.  You were talking that this was kind of an old-school Southern golf course.  What does that mean, I guess, besides the Bermudagrass?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, well, that's obvious; sorry to be redundant.  Just wall-to-wall Bermuda, and you walk through the clubhouse and it's old school.  It's just got that feel, you know, the members are involved in the club and a bunch of them are volunteering and they're proud of their place here, and that's a big southern thing.  They're proud of their golf course, proud of their country club, and they support the heck out of it, and it's just got a good feel.  It's one of those places you feel comfortable here, you feel welcome, and that makes everybody happy.   
Unfortunately opposite event, or I think this place would have a massive field.  It's the talk of the fall for sure, just the way they treat you and the great job sander son does.  It's a heck of an event.  They do a heck of a job.   
 Q.  You talked a little bit about over there with them about the rain and the difference in the course.  Can you just tell us a little bit about how different this course is this year compared to last year?  
LUCAS GLOVER: This is pretty similar to '14.  The temperature is 40 degrees more, right, or teeing off anyway.  I remember teeing off on 10 Friday morning that year, and it was in the high 20s.  That wasn't old South, was it?  It's similar.  You're getting some bounce in the fairways.  The greens are still pretty receptive, as I understand they haven't had a whole lot of rain so they've had to water them a little bit to keep the color in them, so it's still pretty receptive, but it's playing quite similar to that year.  Maybe not quite as firm, but it'll get there.  Low humidity and warm lends golf courses to firm up, so we could have some good bounces and some fun on the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT