WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2016
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Two guys so far in the 2nd Round have flirted with 59.  Lucas you end up with a 61.  Not quite the finish you necessarily wanted on the last hole.  You get to 10-under through 16.  Take me through the last two.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah.  17 is a just a 5-wood for me.  Love to get a number for a pitching wedge.  Hit it 6, 7 feet.  Under-read it a little bit.  Thought it was going to be a little faster.  I didn't read enough break.   
18, pretty much leave it short for starters.  Then all the build-up on the short one, I don't know, just loss of concentration a little bit.  You're going to get 59, obviously.   
 Q.  What was going through your mind as you're staring at that putt for 59 and then you have to come down with the follow-up?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I had the read.  I knew it was into the grain up that hill and the green was a little slower than they were in practice.  Lot of long ones I was leaving short but in the back of my head I was saying get it there, get it there, get it there.   
It just missed it.  Got out of my routine a hair.  I'm thrilled with the way I putted.  I made a bunch.  It was the best putts I made in the last two days.  Today was one of those days.  You make a 50-footer and chip-in.  Turned into one of those days.   
 Q.  What's the carryover going to be like to come off an exhilarating day like this now you're in the thick of things?  
LUCAS GLOVER: You got to go low here especially with some rain and it softens up.  Got to get it in the fairway first here.  You can't get it close out of the rough.  Greens are too firm and fast.  Get it in the fairway at all costs and attack the pins.   
 Q.  61, one heck of around.  Take me through the emotions of this day.  The putter was on fire.  
LUCAS GLOVER: It was one of those days.  It's what I just said a second ago, just, you know, I got some reads right and got it on line a bunch and speed was good and the next thing you know, you make them.  You know, hated to leave the last one short but I did and kind of lost focus on the short one but such is life.   
 Q.  Was it something that clicked on the putting green before you started because you shoot 1-under yesterday.  What's the difference between 1-under and 9-under?  
LUCAS GLOVER: You know, I don't know.  It's so small, minute out here.  You know, read them a little better, see the line a little better.  Could be numerous things.   
But just one of those days, bunch of the putts went in and made a 50-footer on No. 4 and chip-in on 11 and it was just things started adding up and I had a chance at it and bad read on 17 and didn't get it there on 18.  Right in the throat.  Just kind of "Goobered" around on the short one.  Whatever.   
 Q.  At one point did you look at the board and, "Hum, couple more, 59, 58"?  
LUCAS GLOVER: It was after 16 I made that kind of Frisbee putt that had a lot of speed on it.  I went, "All right, this might be one of those days.  Two good shots into 17 and pretty good iron shot into 18."   
Just didn't convert.   
 Q.  Quite a day, huh?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it was good.  Little mad at myself for leaving that one short on the last.  Bunch of putts went in and started hitting it close and made those two and then, you know, had a chance at it.   
 Q.  What does it feel like to get it rolling like that?  
LUCAS GLOVER: It's got to be 58 now, doesn't it because of Jim?  Any opportunity to do something like that is, you know, good feeling, special feeling and it's that old Tour saying, "You practice to get nervous."   
If you get nervous you're doing something good.  I wanted it but I was also cognizant of the fact it's Friday and still trying to win a golf tournament.   
 Q.  Did you feel like you had a round like this in the hopper at the end of the week?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I haven't played in 7 weeks.  I don't know.  It's my first tournament in 7 weeks.  I didn't have very many expectations which is probably why it happened because I didn't have any expectations, but I've been working hard in my off time and just -- I'm seeing the lines really well with the putter today and speed matched and some crazy ones went in and had a chip-in and just turned into one of those days.   
 Q.  Pretty will cool moment there on 18.  Jim ran over to see you putt.  It still shows how important the 59 is.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Jim and I have been friends a long time.  He's been great to me.  I didn't realize he did that.   
 Q.  Was the record on your mind at all on that par putt on 18?  
LUCAS GLOVER: The record?  No.  I didn't know that was the tournament record.  I just -- I kind of lost of concentration a little bit, got eat up in the moment and kind of just got -- you know, wasn't focused.  My fault, stupid, but it happens.   
 Q.  Is it easy to kind of forget about it as you start tomorrow?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I think so.  Tomorrow is is a new day.  Improved on what I needed to improve on from yesterday which was get the ball in the fairway a little bit more and hit some nice iron shots.   
So, you know, hard to improve on that but I improved on what I needed to improve on to be able to have an opportunity to do what I did.   
 Q.  If it rains tonight, is a 58 out there tomorrow?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know.  Maybe.  You know, seems to be the norm.  Somebody is always flirting with it these days, seems like.  You know, you get somebody who hits it in the fairway a bunch and the greens are so good you never know.   
 Q.  What led to the 7 week break?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Five weeks of playing.  Little golfed out.  Wanted some family time and took some family time and just had a situation with my father-in-law couple weeks ago so withdrew from Hartford and he's doing better so here we are.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT