ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2016
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously got to 6-under.  Still a good round of 68.  What were you doing well today?
LUCAS GLOVER: Made some putts.  Made some putts.  Played the par-5s good and played the par-5s consistent or par-3s, you know, conservative and consistent.  So, I think that's a pretty good formula around here if you can do it.  Good to plan on it.  Another thing to do it.
You know, I do all my bad stuff on the same hole.  So, that's where No. 7 came from but, you know, it is what it is and finally saw some putts go in and it was good.
Q. You working on some sort of app?
LUCAS GLOVER: Got a little -- yeah, sensor thing on my putter to practice.  It's something to see the pace of my stroke instead of worrying about the face and the alignment and all the stuff that I've been thinking about for the last three years.
So, I thought, you know, thought it got a little slow and careful and so I've actually tried to speed up my back stroke.  I don't think anybody would ever tell anybody to do that but I saw through that little device that I needed to.
So, that's really all I've been working on, where my putter is pointing.
Q. How long have you been using that?
LUCAS GLOVER: Brad was nice enough to spend a couple hours with me last Monday, Monday in Tampa so he and Brett Quigley finally said hey, man, let's clear out all the technical stuff, do this and I tried it.  It feels great.
It's like kind of like my golf swing, almost faster going back than through.  Pretty good.  I like it.  Thanks to Brad and the media as well.  I've already told him thank you but, you know, I'm not guaranteed to make any tomorrow but it feels good.
Q. Brad doesn't seem to have any technical problems when he putts.
LUCAS GLOVER: I don't think he has to.  He's total all feel but, yeah, he showed me his pace versus my pace and Brett's pace versus my pace and it was night and day.
Q. And I would assume that what you're alluding to is you thought speeding up would not be a good thing on a back swing on a putt.
LUCAS GLOVER: That's exactly what I assumed.  I assumed wrong for a long time.
Q. In theory, then, obviously you said I don't know what it's going to be like tomorrow.  If you're feeling mentally, if you're feeling good about what you're doing that's got to translate over to the next day.
LUCAS GLOVER: Well, mentally it will and I can roll the ball as well as anybody and not anything.  Just golf sometimes.  I have more confidence which is all I care about.
At the end of the day you pick your line, roll it down.  Even if it goes in, great.  If they don't, you hit as many good putts as you can throughout the day.  You just want to -- I just want to look up and have to watch them for awhile because they are all good putts, you know.  You'll make your share and miss your share.  Just the nature of the game.
Q. Can you tell us what you found this week?
LUCAS GLOVER: I've been working on the same stuff.  I know it's good.  Got to get a little confidence.  See some putts going in.  I did that today.
Q. Anything that stands out?
LUCAS GLOVER: I made a nice 10-footer on 11 and stayed even for the second hole of the day.  I made a couple right after that that really kept it going.  Unfortunately, I hit all my bad shots and bad lies on the same hole, No. 7.  That's the way it goes.  I played really solid.  Couple loose shots coming in.  I played well.
Q. (Inaudible).
LUCAS GLOVER: You know, four weeks to get your job back and proved a lot to myself just to commit to what I was doing and what I work on and just continue to tell myself we've got four weeks to do it.  Didn't play super, you know, great golf any week but played really solid in the middle.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT