NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2015
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An interview with:   
LUCAS GLOVER   
 Q.  You really had it going there.  Want to know just basically how that was going and how you got to move up the leaderboard there.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, finally started hitting it good.  I hit it in the fairway a bunch.  It's hard to get looks around here and I finally did that.   
Hit a bunch inside that 15-foot circle, which is hard to do, and knocked a couple in.  Just didn't make anything down the stretch.   
 Q.  Can you go over the eagle on 12?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah.  Just finally hit the fairway.  I went for the green, nice 5-wood probably 18 feet under the hole, and jammed it in.   
That was big momentum.  Then I gave all the momentum back on the next couple holes.  That's the way it goes.  I didn't hit bad putts; I made bad reads.  I can live with that.  If you're making bad strokes it's harder to swallow.   
I didn't read 'em well.  Saw a putt good right on 18 there and played it left edge and it went left.  I don't know.  Can't really explain that one.   
You know, that old bumper sticker, "Blank happens."  I made a good stroke.  That's all I can do.   
 Q.  You've had four straight top 25 finishes now, which is your most consistent run in a while.  Is there anything you can attribute that to?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, making short putts.  Haven't been able to say that for two and a half years.  Come a long way with that.  It's been hard.   
 Q.  How did you adjust to that?  What's the adjustment when you can't make 'em?  
LUCAS GLOVER: You get a lot of weekends off.   
 Q.  Work, in other words.  
LUCAS GLOVER: I made some serious strides with that.  Pretty gratifying to be solid from six feet and in for four weeks in a row.  Probably the biggest bummer for the weekend is I - or today, back nine - is I still made nice strokes.  Just looking in the wrong place unfortunately.  Sometimes that's way it goes.  It's been the other way around in the past, so pretty happy with where I was.   
 Q.  The struggle with the putts, is that more of a mental thing or a technical thing?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Both.  Pretty vicious cycle.  Gets in your head and then you try to fix it physically and it's really not that.  It's mental.   
So you know, made some adjustments and kind of said, I'm going to live with it and it's finally started coming around.  But pretty bummed about the back, the way I putted.  Just didn't make anything.   
You know, the most important shot you never hit is a red putt, so...   
 Q.  Could you address the finals and where you stand?  You're slowly making your way up the Money List.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, finally played like me today.  Ball striking was good.  Been fighting it for a few weeks to be honest.  Made some swing changes and found a little something on the range.  Felt good this morning.   
It was clicking in Greensboro, and then the last couple weeks hit some kind of what-in-the-world-was-that shots.  Today was good.  Today was nice going into next week.   
 Q.  I know you already have status for next year and this is just about improving and trying to get in more tournaments, but have you looked at the money for the finals at all?  
LUCAS GLOVER: No.  I came to Fort Wayne that Monday and said, You just need to do your job for four weeks.  If it's good enough, it's good enough.   
I personally believe - and this is not said in a cocky away - that if I do my job I'll be there in the end where I need to be.  That's just personal self-belief and confidence that I have to have as a professional golfer.   
So that was my mindset coming to Fort Wayne and the rest of the weeks was, It doesn't matter; do your job.  I did my job today and last Sunday.  I got to do my job next week, and my job is to get the best out of every round I play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT