FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 11, 2015
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So, around this course, you know they say, 3, 4-under everyday will put you in contention.   There you are with a 67 on day one.  
LUCAS GLOVER:   Played well today, little loose in the middle of the front, but made some nice putts, and I need to hit a few more fairways.   I had to shape a few out of the trees, but I did well.   I was pleased with the way -- pleased with the way I played.   I misread a couple 6, 8-footers for birdie coming in, but all in all, very pleased with the 3-under, and different golf course than I remember from last time I was here.   It's awesome.   Good before, now it's great with all the bermuda and the ball is bouncing and a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Tough, tough track, though, from what you've learned in the past, because, like I said, you had to get yourself out of some trouble.  
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah.   Yeah.   No, it's always been narrow and always been -- you always had to hit your ball well, but now with the bermuda greens, you got to know where you're coming in from and missing it because of the ball bouncing.   This is new to me.   It's not new to a few guys or anybody else.   Last time I was here, everything was bent and soft.   Didn't matter where you were coming in from.   The ball was going to stop.   Different story now.  
   
 Q.   I know there's so many guys left to play, but in talking with guys before you teed it up this morning, as I mentioned, most guys would take two, three everyday.   Was that the game plan as you came in, just try to get in the red and put a few of them together?  
LUCAS GLOVER:   I don't ever try to play to a score.   I'm trying to hit as good a shot as I can every shot.   If they add up to a good one, fine.   If they add up to even but I fought my tail off, that's fine, too.   Never really have a score in mind, but 3-under I'm happy with, and I got a few things I can work on and feel like I could have put a few better, but golfers are never happy, as you know.   I'm happy with it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT