FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 7, 2015
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  b>Q. You did something special at 18.  Tell me about that bunker shot?LUCAS GLOVER: It was one of those that had that look, plenty of green to work with, a little up slope, and a perfect lie.  I told myself if I landed it halfway between the fringe and the pin on line it had a chance.  I saw it and pulled it off.  It was a good way to finish.  I kind of struggled on the back nine.Q. You hit a lot of good shots early, you missed more than you made, that's for sure.  The golf game coming around pretty good?LUCAS GLOVER: It feels good.  It's been a weird week.  I've been fighting the putter for a year and a half, two years of the this is the first week I ran to the driving range and not the putting green after after I finished.  I haven't been driving it like myself and it's kind of frustrating.  I know you got to hit the fairways on the South Course, on both courses now days with the rough, but I know the problem, I just having trouble trusting it right now.  But we'll go work on it a little bit this afternoon.  I feel good with the putter and it's coming around with the driver.Q. What is it about golf?  You get one and they take away another.  What's the deal with that?LUCAS GLOVER: You match it all up, you usually win, right?  Either that or you make a bunch of putts, one of the two. But, I hadn't missed as many fairways all year as I have the last couple days.  Literally.  It's been a struggle there, but my putter has bailed me out some.  I haven't been able to say that in a long time.Q. The mind seems to be right, having a good time, life's good, so hang in there, this golf course you have to hang in, it's tough?LUCAS GLOVER: You have to.  I bogeyed the first and told myself you're not going to be the only person to make on a bogey today.  Came right back with good shots on 3 and 4 and a couple birdies.  Hung on there and then a bad drive on 14 and bad iron shot on 15, but finish the way I did on 18 will make dinner taste better and get up in the morning and get to work.Q. Starts out with a bogey, but battled right back.  You card a 70.  Are you satisfied with your play today?LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah,  a finish like that.   Any time you finish with an eagle you feel good.  I battled today.  I didn't hit it my best.  My putter bailed me out the first time in a couple years I'm able to say that.  That's a good feeling.  To get a little confidence with that, I know the ball striking will come around.  I just got to trust what I'm working on and hit some balls this afternoon.Q. Following up on that, has the putter been the difference in your strong play here this week?LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, yeah, I putted well.  I putted well starting in Palm Springs.  Then last week I putted okay.  Didn't hit it great there.  I putted well this week.  Missed a few, but misreads, no jitters and bad strokes, just misreads.  A couple bounces out, too.  But I feel good with my stroke and I just got to read them a little bit, six, eight, 10-footers, I always had trouble with that on poa annua, but who doesn't, I guess.Q. Two your three wins on the TOUR have been on some tough venues.  Mentally, how do you attack a difficult track like this?LUCAS GLOVER: You don't attack it.  You're very -- you have to be very patient.  You pick your places where your aggressive and you pick your places where you just say, I need to make par from here or even a bogey sometimes.  Unfortunately, I haven't had to be able to choose a lot, I've been fighting for par a lot, but I got it done.  Like I said, the putter bailed us out some. I need to drive it a little better tomorrow to play well enough to have a chance.  I got to get a little better with that.Q. You mentioned you've been putting better since Humana, what do you attribute the difference to compared to last couple weeks?LUCAS GLOVER: Just made a slight setup change and got some confidence in it.  That's all it was.  Not to say it won't come out tomorrow and miss a couple, but it's not going to be for lack of -- it's not going to be a technique thing or jitters thing.  The only ones I missed this week, I misread.  And I haven't been able to say that in the last couple years. So, I widened my stance a little bit and just got a little more confidence with that and just kind of stayed centered and kind of just started coming around.Q. Do you enjoy being in the hunt on the final day?LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, probably some birdies on 18, I don't know how far back we'll be, but last I saw Harris was leading, he's playing great and he's a heck of a front runner as we have seen in his career, so I'm going to have to play well regardless.  You got to play really well around here to shoot under par and I'm going to have to do that tomorrow.  Maybe a bunch under.  But I'm putting well enough, I just got to hit some more fairways, so I can get at some of these flags.Q. Talk about the fine line between confidence and playing well and struggling.  How do you get that confidence back?LUCAS GLOVER: There's a saying that you hear a lot on TOUR, when the TOUR player's playing well the golf seems so easy.  When you're playing poorly, it seems so hard. That is confidence.  In my opinion.  For me, it's been a lack, a lack of it putting and starting to gain it, starting to gain it it, starting to gain it.  You can fake it around ball striking, you can't fake it around here putting or in any tournament.  So, to have, to gain a little bit has led to some better scores.  No great scores, but better scores.Q. (No Microphone.)LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, everything.  If there was something to try, I'm sure I've tried it, honestly.  But it all came down to -- honestly it call came down to my caddie just grabbing me and saying here's what you used to do, let's do that.  We started working on that and decided this is what we're doing.  We know it's right, keep doing it.  No matter what.  And all of a sudden they started coming out of the middle of the face and I started making some and my speed got better and now I'm standing here now and the butter's bailed me out this week because I haven't hit it like myself.Q. When was it that he said that?LUCAS GLOVER: Tuesday of Humana.Q. This past year?LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah.  It wasn't, it was better in the fall, the few events I played in the fall, but still wasn't great.  Finally, I had a day where I couldn't practice and hit balls and we just putted for hours and I and that's all we worked on.  He said this is what it was, this is what it looked like and here's what you need to do and if you say okay, that's what we're going to do.  And I agreed with him.  I said, you know what, we know this is right, and just keep doing it.Q. Did you go back a specific point and look at it?LUCAS GLOVER: No, it was just my -- I had some great years out here, eight or nine years and he said this is what it looked like and we got into all this other stuff, all these other faults, all this other stuff and basically it came down to you know you're a hitter, you're not a stroker.  He goes, you need to widen the stance out and hit these putts in.  You have never been a flowy stroker.  Everybody's different.  It kind of mirrored my swing.  I was a short swing hitter and then I'm trying to make a Loren Roberts putting stroke and that wasn't me.  Of the just kind of got out of, got out of being myself.Q. Is this the last year with the exemption?LUCAS GLOVER: Yes.  Yes, it is.  I had five from the U.S. Open and Charlotte made it one more because it was inside that exemption.Q. Is that any pressure added to what you're trying to do this year?LUCAS GLOVER: No.  No.  If I start thinking about that, you start thinking about having to make the cut and having to make a check and you forget about winning golf tournaments.  Every guy here shows up on Monday trying to win.  That's the mindset I have to have.  I can't think about it the other way.Q. How long ago does Bethpage seem and when you look back on that what comes to your mind?LUCAS GLOVER: Sometimes it seems like yesterday, sometimes it seems like 20 years.  It's one of those things that no matter what I do or shoot or say nobody can take from me.  And have I to use that as an asset.  And I do.  You know, a lot of times if I got a 4-iron I'll think about 17.  I mean I draw on that as much as possible, because that's the highlight of my life or highlight of my career life.  So, but like I said, sometimes is it seems like the '80s and sometimes it seems like two weeks ago.Q. (No microphone.)LUCAS GLOVER: Sure.  Sure.  No, you're exactly right.  I didn't allow myself to think that way right after it.  I said it before, but the most gratifying part of after the U.S. Open was how well I played in the following PGA.  I got back in the hunt and kind of followed it up a little bit.  Obviously I haven't won another one, but it's just one of those things you draw from an you do well, you have to temper that, temper those expectations.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT