SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 8, 2014
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Pretty impressive ball‑striking round today, very stress‑free round of 67.   You were actually hitting a couple cuts out there today?  
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, I've been working hard with my coach, John Tillery, just trying to, as he says, trim the branches, not start it out so far to the right and get confident with it.   It was good.   I didn't drive it exactly how I wanted today, but I read my lies good, so I was fortunate with that.  
   
 Q.   I've got to say it was a lot of fun for me to watch.   You just moved down to south Florida; kind of a change of pace, change of scenery.   What's that done for your attitude?  
LUCAS GLOVER:   It's good.   Change is always good.   Made that change, made some changes in my golf swing, made some changes in my putting routine, and I've been working hard.   It's nice to see it pay off through three days.   We've got to fall back on that hard work tomorrow and try to make a bunch more birdies.   Looks like John is playing great.   
   
 Q.   Beautiful round of golf today, 67, some great ball‑striking.   You've got to be absolutely delighted with that.   
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, I played well.   One little hiccup there on 4, but I played well.   I need to hit a few more fairways to get at some of these hole locations, but all in all, not disappointed.   Pretty pleased.  
   
 Q.   You have to be really pleased the way you bounced back from that double bogey.   It just looks like you're confident when you're driving that golf ball.   
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, I feel good about it.   I always felt good driving it, and I'm starting to get a little bit of confidence with the putter, and that's what I've needed.   It's going to take a good one tomorrow, and looks like John is playing awesome.   Happy for him, but I'm averaging seven birdies for the last couple days.   I'm going to need that again tomorrow.   We'll see if we can get it.  
   
 Q.   As a former U.S. Open champion, I would imagine fairways and greens is a very good game plan for this golf course.   
LUCAS GLOVER:   It is.   It is.   You know, just looking around, and you play it and you think about it, and it's one of those courses where you say, man, I can really eat this place up and they put the wins over in the corners and you get a little wind and it's a little chilly, and next thing you know, a couple under is a pretty good score.   It's a great golf course.   We're blessed to be here.   It's awesome.   We love it.   
   
 Q.   It's got to be a very exciting opportunity not having been in contention for a while to be exactly where you want to be with a chance to win a golf tournament again.   
LUCAS GLOVER:   Absolutely, absolutely.   Been fortunate this week, I've birdied the first hole the first three days, so I'm going to have to have that kind of start tomorrow just to get back in the mix because John is playing awesome.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT