BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2019
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lucas, I know it wasn't how you wanted it to end but it's going to end up pretty good. You played your way into Atlanta. How much pressure did you feel coming down the end there?  
LUCAS GLOVER: Not a ton, honestly. It was made more difficult by some miscues and bad break but, you know, had a little mud on 16. Hit two solid shots and thought I hit a good putt. Bounced out.   
17 hit a bad shot and got compounded by not getting in the bunker. Couldn't get a club on the ball. Had a good bit of rough behind it. Wouldn't be me if I didn't make it interesting. But, you know, it was fun. We had a nice time and yeah, it was a good day.   
 Q.  Your game is really coming into shape. You've had a really good season. What does it mean to you to make it to Atlanta?  
LUCAS GLOVER: It means a lot, you know. Obviously the goal each week is to win. I didn't do that this year. As far as that goes, I still got some motivation to work. As far as the year-end goal, this is pretty good.   
So, pretty excited and, from what I understand, I get to go to Augusta next year. Hadn't been there in a long time. Pretty excited about that. And yeah, I'm proud of my season. I didn't get the win -- get a win. I'm still hungry.   
 Q.  You should be. Well played this week. Good luck next week.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Thanks a lot.   
 Q.  Lucas, well done. Get some comments on what's going through your mind right now.  
LUCAS GLOVER: How far is it to Midway? I got to see my family. No. No. Like I said, a second ago, I'm thrilled with the end result. Still pretty hungry to win and I didn't do that again this week. You know, had a great year but I want more and that's all I can say.   
 Q.  What was the difference this year for you as far as --  
LUCAS GLOVER: Putted okay. Putted pretty good. I didn't putt great. Pretty streaky but didn't have any major hiccups and gained some confidence and I hit it like I always it. I putted decent.   
 Q.  How proud of yourself are you with those six birdies through 15? You knew what you had to do and came out and did it.  
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. I mean I knew the last few holes no matter where I was were going to be difficult. 16 is a brutal hole. 17, that hole location is tough for me. 18, lucky was downwind.   
I played pretty aggressively knowing that. Made a couple of average to long putts and kind of got in a place I needed to be. I wanted to finish it off but that wasn't to be.   
 Q.  Were you scoreboard watching?  
LUCAS GLOVER: I started looking around 14, 15. When I got to 18 I was curious where Justin was. I didn't know. So, obviously he put it back in gear so -- but yeah, that was the only reason. I wasn't worried too much about the Top 30 until I got over here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT