MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about today.   
LUCAS GLOVER:   It was good.   Always good to birdie the last two, no matter where you are, especially around here.   
Couldn't be happier with the way I finished.   I had some hiccups there in the middle and felt like I could have done a little better around Amen Corner, but it is what it is.   
   
 Q.   Was that fist bump on 18 about as much emotion as we'll ever see out of you?  
LUCAS GLOVER:   I'm not much of a Friday fist bumper, but I don't think I ever shot in the 60s around here, so that just meant a lot to me.   That had nothing to do with anybody else or showing anybody up or anything, that was for me.   
   
 Q.   Talk about getting yourself back in it.   Yesterday no one's ever happy with a 3‑over but you didn't seem disappointed after yesterday.   Obviously you corrected some things.   
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, I did a lot of good things yesterday and I did the same things good today, I just kind of cleaned up the obvious stuff.   No big numbers.   
But to say I'm back in it, I think that's a little short‑sighted right now, we're only halfway through the day, so I'm planning on coming out and having to shoot a low one tomorrow instead of thinking I'm in it right now.   But we'll see where the chips fall.   
   
 Q.   Does your record here bother you, considering how important this place probably is to you?  
LUCAS GLOVER:   Bother me?   No.   Wanting to play better here?   Of course.   It's not one of those things where when I come here I'm like, oh, I got to play great.   It's just, I want to, because everybody else does, I think.   
I mean, I know why I haven't played well here and I'm still trying to address it.   
   
 Q.   Did you have a number in mind coming into today?   Do you say, I want to at least get back to even par, that's kind of the goal, anything along those lines?  
LUCAS GLOVER:   No, I've never really been a shoot‑at‑a‑number guy.   You got to play that way here.   It's hole by hole.   Because they put the holes in the high spot versus the low spot, one hole behind another, it's a totally different ball game.   
There's a lot of conservative and then aggressive, conservative and aggressive.   So you can't really think about a number, because you don't know where the holes are going to be.   I think that's really the case around here.   
So I was just having a mindset of trying to give myself as many birdie putts as I can and as many of those be on the good side of the hole.   Sounds kind of childish, but I think that's the best formula to play here.  
   
 Q.   Were the pins a little more accessible today than yesterday?  
LUCAS GLOVER:   Looks like they're doing six, six, six.   Six you can get at and six you can kind of get at and six you're lucky if you get to it, kind of thing.   Which is great.   That's the way it ought to be.   It's a Major.   
So you got to have a few where you got to have a 20‑footer with a wedge, that's a good shot.   
Like 14 today.   I hit sand wedge, hit it 20 feet, and couldn't be happier.   How many times do you hear that on TOUR or at a tournament?   That's the dead truth.   
So the hard ones yesterday were a little easier, the easier ones yesterday were a little harder.   So it seems like they're doing six, six, six.   We'll see tomorrow, I guess.   
   
 Q.   Any major glaring difference in the two rounds or was it just a matter of getting the ball in the right spots, more putts to drop in?  
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, I still missed some I should have made.   I missed a 2‑footer on 12 for birdie.   So I'm still not going to say I'm happy with my putting.   
I 3‑putted 9 from nowhere.   11.   So that's three shots in four holes right there.   But I made a long one on 17 and a nice one on 18.   So it sounds good, sounds like I'm putting good, because I made it on the last hole.   
   
 Q.   Last year of the exemption here, is that something that even entered your mind for even a second preparing coming here?  
LUCAS GLOVER:   No, I think if I do what I'm supposed to do and work like I'm supposed to work and play like I'm supposed to play, I'll be here.   And if not, that's my motivation.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT