WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2013
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   If you want to talk about your round today and some of the highlights and then we'll have some questions. 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Just kind of up‑and‑down.   Didn't get off to a great start, but I made some birdies on the front and then bogeyed the last for 1‑under.   So not all that disappointed, but I definitely left a few out there, and I didn't drive it well enough to shoot in the 60s today. 
But it's okay.   I'm under par, here for the weekend, so we'll try to make some birdies tomorrow.

Q.   How bad was the lie for the approach going into the last? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Both of them were bad, actually.   The first one was worse than I thought, and somehow or another, 50 yards short of the green in the trees I was in a divot.   But pretty good 5, I guess, after all is said and done. 
But looking back on it, to lay‑up might have been the best bet, but whatever, probably would have made 5 anyway.

Q.   How do you find the scoring to be comparable other years?
LUCAS GLOVER:   The scoring looks to be about the same.   I think it's a combination of soft and then a little tougher to make putts.   But I don't ever remember much more than 5‑ or 6‑under leading after the first round.   It will probably be 8 or 9 after today, you'd think, unless somebody goes crazy.   But it's scoring not different, I don't think.

Q.   Is driving more critical? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, I think so.   The rough's a little more penal than it's been the last couple of years.   It's thicker, a little longer, I think because of the rain.   But, yeah, you need to be in the fairway to get some of the holes.

Q.   Yesterday you said you're out of here if you get a call.   With that, are you more relaxed because of that knowing that you're not going to be here ‑‑ not because of the cut, but just because you might get the call for your baby girl? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   That's really a tough question.   I don't follow.

Q.   Well, are you more comfortable knowing that because you are more than likely going to get a call with your baby girl coming, are you more relaxed? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   No, it's the same for me.   If anything, it's probably the other way.   It would be much more nerve‑racking if I do get the call.

Q.   Were you surprised somebody didn't post a much lower score maybe from these early groups here? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   No, it's not that easy.   It's breezy, but we've got half the field still to play.   I think somebody will get it to 9 or 10 I would think.

Q.   Where do you keep your phone? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   In my locker.

Q.   How do you know if you're getting the call if you're on the golf course? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   My mom's here.

Q.   Does she have her phone with her? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Oh, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT