WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2013
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Have you ever played like this in the past when it's been wet? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   This is as long as I can remember this course playing.   I think it's just due to the rain early in the week and the moisture in the air.   It's not‑‑ it hasn't had an opportunity to firm up.   I'm not sure.   I don't know if they're watering or not, but some damp conditions yesterday, damp air today, so it just hasn't dried out.   It evens out because fortunately the greens are soft with some longer clubs coming in, so it kind of evens out.   It's really easy if it's firm and then soft greens.   So it's evening out with a few longer clubs, but soft greens.   It is a little different.

Q.   Looking at your scorecard, it looks like the first few holes it was just trying to get a feel for the conditions.   Is that pretty much what it was? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Well, obviously, you take chances when you can.   Two decent shots into 1, had a putt, misread it, and then 2 just left it a little short.   3, good up‑and‑down.   4, had a good four, and 5, I felt like that putt should have gone in.   But even through 5 is fine, and then things just got going.   The conditions are what they are, and everybody's doing it, so.

Q.   You said patience? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, absolutely, no question.   I had some bounce in and I had some bounce out, but it evens out eventually.

Q.   Any thoughts about the baby while you're playing?
LUCAS GLOVER:   Of course, yeah, absolutely, of course.   But we'll take that when it comes as well.   That's a patience test as well.   I've got a lot of patience going on right now, not used to that, but all things positive with that. Just waiting.

Q.   Tied for 4th at Honda earlier this year, and you weren't able to really capitalize on the momentum.   After the great week last week to come out and do what you did today, do you feel maybe you're close now after last year's loss here to where you want to be at? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Anytime you shoot a 68 around here, it makes you feel good.   Just like any good play at the golf course at the Honda makes you feel. 
But I'm hitting the ball like I like to and seeing some putts go in, so that's a good combo.

Q.   What is maybe your favorite part about coming to this tournament?   Is it close to home, a golf course you like? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, I love the course.   They take good care of us here and make us feel comfortable.   Just kind of turn over the club to us, and it's obviously a great place.   The practice area is awesome, they feed us great, and it's just a treat to be here.   They do a great job with the club and Wells Fargo they take great care of us.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT