ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2013
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Lucas Glover to the interview room here at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans.   Lucas, congratulations, 5‑under 67 today and 16 birdies through two rounds.   Obviously, you're feeling good about your game, and with that kind of heading into the weekend just a few comments?   
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, it's been good   hitting it like I've been hitting it and finally making some of the putts.   So obviously making a lot of them to make that many birdies.   But a few hiccups today, but you get that here.   You get out of position, and it's hard to make par.   But luckily I've been in position more than not.   So I'm pretty pleased with my play.  
   
 Q.   How did the greens roll today compared to yesterday?   
LUCAS GLOVER:   Little bit faster, I think, just drier.   Nothing outrageously different, but just a hair quicker.   But they're rolling good.   They're fine.   They're just good Bermuda greens.   So they're rolling fine.  
   
 Q.   Both days you've gotten off to a fast start with a lot of birdies.   Have you been feeling that coming on?   
LUCAS GLOVER:   I've been hitting it good for a couple months and finally started making some putts.   Made a few changes over the weekend last weekend, and it was working at home and then it worked Wednesday afternoon in the Pro‑Am and just kind of carried over to Thursday making the short ones and making a few of the mid‑range ones and luckily hitting it close a lot.  
   
 Q.   Three missed cuts the last four.   Surprising for 36 holes for you?   Did you see this in your game?   
LUCAS GLOVER:   I knew if I putted well I was close to playing well.   I mean, I was hitting it as good as I can hit it.   But at the same time, if you putt poorly...   
Thursday's opener is a great example.   I hit it as good as I could hit it, and shot 1‑under.   You can't compete out here doing that.   So I hit it like I've been hitting it and now making the putts.   So, see it coming?   Yeah.   It was one of those things where I had to get the putter straightened out, but I think I have.  
   
 Q.   What did you do to straighten it out?   
LUCAS GLOVER:   A little adjustment with my set‑up then just kind of got a little more stable on my left side, little more weight left.   Then just same stuff I've been working on.   It's just kind of mixed.  
   
 Q.   Something you picked up on?   
LUCAS GLOVER:   I've been working with Dave Stockton Jr., and we've been working for about seven months.   Used a little bit of‑‑ or took what he gave me, and took some of my own stuff with my set‑up just to get comfortable and stable and still doing what we work on.  
   
 Q.   Last year you had the knee injury and the rib injury.   How long did it take you to get back to where you felt like you were playing the kind of golf that you were capable of?   
LUCAS GLOVER:   Ball striking‑wise it was probably starting Florida of this year.   It was kind of up‑and‑down on the west coast ball striking‑wise, but I started hitting it really good in Florida and leading up to Augusta.   Just the putter wasn't there.   
Like I said yesterday, it just stressed everything else out and that's probably where the poor play came from in Tampa‑‑ excuse me, Bay Hill and Houston.   But ball striking‑wise, I've been there where I was used to being.   I don't know that I've ever putted like I have the last two days, so I don't know if I can say I'm back there, but to never have been there.   But it's been good.  
   
 Q.   What was that down period like for you?  
LUCAS GLOVER:   Boring.  
   
 Q.   What did do you?   
LUCAS GLOVER:   Nothing.   I mean, I was on the couch for six weeks.   Rehab for an hour and a half and on the couch.   I think it was exactly six weeks after surgery I started on wedges, which is pretty quick.   But I had plenty of downtime last year in the off‑season.   So I read a lot, a lot of crosswords and TV and boredom, but it was good.  
   
 Q.   You said you haven't been there from a putting standpoint for a while.   Is there some angst about tomorrow that you may not have it?   
LUCAS GLOVER:   No, no, but I'm also not foolish enough to think I'm going to make them all every day.   That's where patience comes in.   You miss one you think you should make, it's going to happen.   It happened on 3 today.   I had a six‑footer and just misread it.   You can't let it get to you.   Came right around and birdied 4 and 5.   
So as long as I'm rolling it down the line where I'm looking, that's all I can do.   I've got to take that through tomorrow and Sunday and not let it get to me.   I'll be the first to admit I'll get mad if I'm not hitting my lines because that's something I can control.   So angst, no, but I have confidence.  
   
 Q.   Was there one particular putt today that you said, this is what I'm supposed to be doing?   Was there one that you were particularly proud of?   
LUCAS GLOVER:   Getting off to a good start at this course is pretty important because 17 coming in, 9 coming in depending on which side you play first, I had about an 8‑footer on 2, after a good bunker shot then a tough read.   I had the break going one way, the green going the other, and I made that one.   
All right, you know, that was a good feeling to birdie the first two, two good reads, two good strokes and I just kind of felt like that got going.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT