MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, you got away with 17 and 18, huh?
LUCAS GLOVER:   14, 15, 16, yeah, same story, hit it great, putted like I didn't have hands.   Same story.   Nothing new. 

Q.   What turned it around at the end? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   I don't think anything turned it around.   I just didn't make my usual bogeys on 17 and 18.   Just hit it in the fairway both holes.   I didn't do that the previous two days. 

Q.   Scored well toward the end of the front nine.   Did you feel like you had a good strong run in you and you could get yourself back to even par again?
LUCAS GLOVER:   Even par, yeah.   But I hit two good shots on 10 and they were short and made 5, and then it was just kind of wishy‑washy from there.   So just kind of killed the momentum and then birdied 13 and killed it on 14 with a bad iron shot and a three‑putt.   Just the same thing, just didn't get anything out of it.   Hit it better than my score and probably putted like I shot 80. 
But I'll try and figure it out.

Q.   The way you're hitting it, do you see a pretty good upside, though?
LUCAS GLOVER:   Well, yes and no.   The upside is I'm hitting it good.   The downside is I keep putting bad and it makes it suck even more.   You'd almost rather hit it bad, putt bad, shoot 78 and not have to worry about it.   But it's a pretty obvious weakness and a pretty obvious problem.   But you know, just now that I'm hitting it better and like I'm supposed to, it makes it more glaring of an issue.   You know, I missed a bunch of 10‑footers and a bunch of two‑footers because I'm hitting it closer and getting it up around the greens on the par‑5s and hitting good chips and I can't get it in the hole. 
Hitting it good makes it more obvious. 

Q.   How long has it been like this for you? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Putting poorly?   Year and a half. 

Q.   Do you work with anybody specifically on it?
LUCAS GLOVER:   I do.   Dave Stockton, Jr., and some with Senior, and I'm the best practice green putter you've ever seen.   I know what I'm doing is right, I just can't translate it to the golf course.   And that's a me thing, it's not a them thing or their method.   Their method is great and I love it.   That's how I grew up putting, and I know it's right, I just can't translate it, and I can't figure out why.   But I'll be irritated for half a more hour and then be positive and try to figure it out. 
I can't hit it much better around this place.   I'm thrilled with that.   You know, I'll see what I can do tomorrow, knock some in early and see if we can get it back to even or the best we can. 

Q.   Fourth year of your five‑year exemption out here.   How frustrating that you maybe haven't been able to do more with those years and obviously now next year you have to play well to play yourself in the following year? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Yeah, I don't think about that.   If I play how I'm supposed to, I'll be back here, whether it's for lifetime or not nobody can answer that.   You can play great here for four days and not win.   A lot of guys have done it.   But I don't think about next year being my last year here.   If I play like I'm supposed to and get this putter figured out, I'm good enough to be back here I feel.   And that's where I want to be every year. 
That's my mindset, and if I get it figured out it's going to be good.   But I don't think about next year being my last year here. 

Q.   You're aware I'm assuming about what happened with Tiger today? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   A little bit.   I was going to the tee when the ruling came down, and I didn't get the whole explanation.   I understand he got a penalty, but I don't know why.   So I didn't get the gist of it. 

Q.   Generally on the PGA Tour when there's a potential rules violation or infraction and someone calls in, I think the Tour goes ahead and looks at the tape and then they usually meet you in the scoring trailer, don't they, to talk about it to see if there might be some sort of an issue?
LUCAS GLOVER:   Correct.   Any time there's an outstanding issue that could have come up away from a ruling, they'll wait for you and say, sorry, don't sign your card, let's talk about it.   I don't know if we allow call‑ins anymore on the regular Tour.   I've heard both ways.   But yes, they'll do everything they can to keep you from signing your card if there's an infraction that a rules official didn't witness or that a question came up.   It happened at Honda this year that some fans thought I took a wrong drop after an embedded ball, and Tony Wallin was there and said, hang on, let's talk about this, we've got some issues, and both of my playing competitors said that's ludicrous, they don't know what they're talking about, and the ShotLink got back, whatever, but they were there to answer your questions.

Q.   Enough information that at that point they could make a decision?
LUCAS GLOVER:   Oh, yeah, sure.   But yes. 

Q.   In this particular case it was someone that did call in and they were just indicating that they thought there was a problem with the drop.   They looked on the videotape and they didn't think there was a problem with the drop so they never got to Tiger before he signed his card.   After the fact Tiger said he made a drop two yards from where he had hit the ball, which‑‑
LUCAS GLOVER:   Said that in his interview, right.

Q.   You're supposed to drop it closest to the thing, so that's why they dinged him for two but they didn't disqualify him because they felt like they made a mistake by not getting to him sooner. 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Okay.   There you go.

Q.   The question is‑‑
LUCAS GLOVER:   Isn't there a USGA thing about call‑ins these days?   Isn't that the rule? 

Q.   But the call‑in actually saved him, it didn't hurt him.   Are you comfortable with the fact that after it's all said and done somebody actually violates the rules and still ends up playing out here? 
LUCAS GLOVER:   Comfortable?   I don't know all the facts.   I'm quite certain that with the powers that be here, they looked at it and judged it correctly because there's so many USGA guys and Fred Ridley is a huge USGA guy.   I feel like they were by the book, and Tiger being Tiger, he's as up‑and‑up with the rules as anybody.   I fell like if he felt like he really, really messed up, then he would have‑‑ he's always done the up‑and‑up thing with the rules and he's always been a stickler for the rules and a traditionalist for the game.   So comfortable with it?   Yeah, I'm fine with it because I know they did everything they could to make the right decision.   I just wasn't informed on it until what you just said. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT