THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2011
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LUCAS GLOVER: You know, it is what it is. I've become comfortable. Originally I wasn't. I'd get mad if one rolled into a bunker or bounced off the green when I hit an average shot, but if you don't hit the shot you're supposed to here you get penalized.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Just coming back to an old move or feeling, more of a straight back, wide backswing instead of trying to -- less positioning of the club, just more of a feeling, and just try to make it look like it used to, I guess would be I guess the best way to put it.  
  
  Q. When you say you felt close to home, is the weather today going to help the American players?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I think it's still execution. It was just more of a 75, 78 degrees. Feels like a late spring day for us. But I think that's going to come to a halt tomorrow I've heard, so I don't think it'll help or hurt anybody in particular.   
  
  Q. Although you said you've never really thought about the questions that have been asked about American golf at the moment and the European surge, is it something that your American friends and colleagues, do you actually discuss it amongst yourselves?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Not really. We spend most of our time trying to beat each other. I guess we need to play better.   
  
  Q. Just talk about the way you played 14 today.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: It was pretty similar, you know, 3-wood yesterday and driver today went almost in the same place just because of the difference in the wind. But I was forced to lay up again today, and I hit 8-iron yesterday for a lay-up, and then 5 today with a little different wind and both hit 9-irons in to 20 feet. So unfortunately pretty similar. But it is a different wind and off the left today, whereas yesterday it was help off the right. Totally different hole, and we hit driver now and not have to worry about running through.   
  
  Q. You're staying with Davis?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yes.  
  
  Q. Are you just hanging out?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Eating as much as we can.  
  
  Q. Where did you go?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Amigos in Sandwich. They deliver.  
  
  Q. Do you do your own ironing?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Not me. I don't know what an iron looks like. That's the beauty of these clothes. You hang them up for a night and you're good.  
  
  Q. The bunker on 4 off the tee, has that ever entered your head?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I could see, absolutely, if you get the prevailing wind, which I hear is the south, which we have today, and it's blowing 25, 30 miles an hour, you have to play left. I do anyway, for sure. If not, I think I can cover that. I don't know if I can cover the whole hill.   
 But yeah, absolutely. That thing glaring at you blowing 25 in your face, you absolutely think about it.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 LUCAS GLOVER: A lot. First time I've played well in almost a year for four rounds, played well at TPC the year before and first time I put four rounds together and did it under the gun. Great stretch coming down 16, 17 and 18 there, so it meant a lot to execute and end up winning. Yeah, that was huge for me.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. They said nobody has won The Open Championship with a beard since the 1890s. That's what BBC Radio told me.  
  
  Q. Do you have your plus fours ready to go?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, you've got to iron those.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I mean, I'd like to say I've got a slight advantage because I've been there before, but it's going to be tough here Saturday, Sunday, with 36 holes to go, and the wind is going to get up, so it's going to be difficult. But I can always say -- tell myself at the start of a round or at the end of the round that I've done it before and been there before and succeeded so I've got that in the back of my head. Whether it makes a difference if I execute a 5-iron on 18 or not, I don't think it does, but I can keep myself calm because I know that.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I mean, it just shows you how wide a range of great players there are in the world. I haven't seen a shot either one of them has hit, so I can't speak to what they've got going on, but it just shows you how good it is across the board.  
  
  Q. How would you describe how you're playing right now?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Just solid. I hit it better than I hit it yesterday, just didn't make as many putts. You know, got to put those two together to win a big tournament like this. So got to figure that out.  
  
  Q. Position-wise, though, this is --  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I'm fine. I'm happy. I made the cut and I played well and got the afternoon off, so I'm pleased.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT