THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2011
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That was a nice finish there. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, good finish. Caught a little break with the wind, laid down about 13 or 14, and Robert and I kind of chuckled on 14 tee. We both kind of said, where did the wind go? So I think you'll see some birdies this evening coming in.

 Q. How significant is a decline in the wind playing this course?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, for me it's big because I can hit normal shots instead of trying to flight it all the time, something I might not be as used to. But starting on 15, it was just a normal pitching wedge out of the fairway. 16, normal 7-iron. We had a little bit of wind but not enough to where you had to lower your ball flight significantly to get it to go the distance you wanted. For me "comfortable" would be the right term I'd use.

 Q. And when the wind started to lay down, did you say to yourself, I have something of a chance here?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, well, we had a good pin on 16, and 2 right to left to a left pin. 17 we had a backstop and then 18 is 18. 
 But 16 with the way I shaped the ball, I knew that was a good pin for me. I could start it in the middle of the green and let the wind work it to it. And 17 I had a good number and could use the backstop, and 18 was a normal 6-iron, run it up.

 Q. When you see the wind lay down, do you say to yourself, I can do what I want to do --
 LUCAS GLOVER: Sure. The more control we have over a ball, the more comfortable we feel, and that's just not me, that's the whole field. Any time we can shape it or control it more, the better we feel, and when the wind lays down we're able to do that.

 Q. Would you have envisioned 4-under when you teed off today?
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, maybe not, not the way the wind was blowing and not the way I started out hitting it. But the way I turned and the way I started hitting it on the back, I knew I could make some birdies coming in.

 Q. What's it feel like now?
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's good. It's where you want to be but you want to be there on Sunday, and we've got three more days to do it.

 Q. Your British Open play has been -- I don't think you've had a top 25 over here, a couple of MCs. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's been up and down. I played okay at Carnoustie. I played okay first round last year and then dwindled would out. You learn how to play over here and adapt and start figuring it out.

 Q. Is it coming on a little bit?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, I had good practise and I feel pretty comfortable with most of the tee shots, most of the holes out here, and I like it. But again, there's some acclimation to be had, and I feel like I've done that.

 Q. Are you starting to enjoy links golf a little bit more?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I've always enjoyed it. I enjoy it and appreciate the challenge. You enjoy it more when you shoot 4-under. Birkdale I had the wrong side of the draw, shot 78 and felt like I shot 65. I mean, it's what the golf course gives you, and if you execute, you shoot good scores, and if you don't, you don't, and that's the way it should be.

 Q. Overall good day today?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Very solid, very solid. One bogey and a birdie on the front, hit a lot of good shots, and lipped out a few putts middle of the front nine for birdie, and hit it close on 9, and made a good putt on 10, and then very solid up until 16. You know, I hit two great shots on 16 and 17 and two good shots on 18 and took advantage of it. 
 But overall solid and then some fireworks at the end. 

 Q. Talk about the length of those putts, the last three coming in. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: 162 hole, 16; 142 hole, 17; 178 front on 18, which is all I was worried about.

 Q. And the putts?
 LUCAS GLOVER: 16 was three feet, 17 was two feet, 18 was 16 feet. 

 Q. This is as high as you've been on the leaderboard at a major since Sunday at the U.S. Open. Is there something you can take out of this round?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I can always use '09 U.S. Open and PGA in the back of my head whenever I get there in any tournament, not just majors. I do have that to fall on, but I've still got to hit the shots and still got to execute. But if we get down to the back nine Sunday and I'm where I want to be, I can fall back on the fact that I have executed and done the right things under that pressure. So sure, absolutely. 

 Q. Is your ball flight a little lower than some guys, is it fair to say?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it can be. I don't mind hitting flat drivers and flat long irons and different things. But as a whole with the irons, probably not; driver, yes. 

 Q. Is the beard here to say?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. This was sheerly out of boredom last fall, or laziness, I'll leave that up to you, but I don't know, it's just something to do, something to goof around with. There's a few. I wasn't the first.

 Q. Kyle Stanley has got one now. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, his looks like a map of Hawai'i, though. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT