THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Today you said it was a bit of a struggle out there, but still in good position going into the weekend.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I'm happy with the way I played. I didn't make as many putts as yesterday. I felt like I just misread a few kind of middle of the round, 16, 18, No. 1. Would have liked to have got that one in on No. 9, just wasn't meant to be.   
 So happy with where I stand, but just got to give myself as many opportunities for birdies tomorrow as I can make because I'm putting well.  
  
  Q. Talk about 9, the 18 green a little bit, there were a lot of folks missing intermediate range putts. It looked very slippery. If that keeps up over the weekend, what do you have to do to finish off a round?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's not firm enough to play like this course can play. You know, the fairways are pretty soft, the greens are holding, but I guess that could change if we get some high winds or no water at all.   
 But we've seen it a lot firmer and faster here in the past, so we'll see.  
  
  Q. What will it take for somebody over the weekend to make a big move up? Or for those of you who are up in a pretty good position, is the weather going to exclude some folks from being able to make a move?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't think so. 10 under is leading, looks like even's going to be the cut, and that's within 10. So a couple of 65s will probably do it. Maybe, I don't know.   
 It's going to be tough. They can hide the pins out here pretty good, and if you're not on the fairway, you can't get to them at all.   
 Whoever plays the best over the weekend. It could be somebody a couple under that goes super low. It could be D.T. at 10 that keeps doing what he's doing. We'll see.  
  
  Q. You say you're a confidence guy. What's it like to be on a stretch like this?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's good. You know, last week I don't usually take much stock in a Pro-Am, but last Wednesday gave me a lot of confidence, because I finally looked up and the ball was going where I was looking most of the day. But I think everybody's like that to some extent. If you're playing well and hitting the ball well, you're going to play better.   
 I've been working pretty hard and it's finally coming around, so it feels good.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT