THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2011
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Are you pleased to start this way? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: I got off to a good start, birdies on three of the first four, made a nice putt on one, and hit a good wedge shot on four. It was a nice up-and-down sandwiched in there on 3. So I had a little momentum going into the middle of the front. 
 I missed a pretty makeable putt on 5. But Eagled 9 to get things going to the back. So just a good start and played well.

 Q. Does it go bigger on a course like this than some other courses? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: I guess the way courses are designed now, the hardest holes would be down the stretch now. So it's always good to be under with these last couple holes here. So to be where I was and, you know, kind of still one of those what could have been on 16. Just hit a bad spot there. But yeah, momentum's big anywhere. Here you've got 17 and 18 to sow up the day.

 Q. What did you carryover from last week? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: A lot of confidence. Made sure I got some rest early in the week. Only played nine Wednesday, took Monday off. And just the confidence from last week from looking up and seeing the ball where I'm looking instead of not, and that's been an issue. But it's just a confidence thing for me.

 Q. The gallery was hooting and hollering for you a little bit. Do you think it's the beard or what? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I don't really care as long as they're hooting and hollering for something. I hope it was because I was making birdies.

 Q. You put together a nice run before and after the Open. Do things sort of feel similarly? Do you have a little stretch coming on? Have you thought of yourself as a streaky guy in the past? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I'm a confidence guy. I think everybody is to some extent. You're confident. Looking up and aiming at the pin with a 3-iron, looking up and aiming somewhere near it, you feel pretty good. It hasn't been that way for a long time. 
 I feel good. But any time you win, you get a lot of confidence. If you prepare and do the right things leading up to the week, it should still go your way.

 Q. Anything from that Wednesday pro-am round still hold up today? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yes, same little thought or same fix, square the club face at address. I don't have to think about it now. Thursday and Friday last week I had to think about it a little bit, but it's kind of engrained now and I can definitely tell a difference.

 Q. You talked probably a lot about it the last week and a half or so, but are you superstitious at all about the beard? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, the ball doesn't know what I've got on my face. But it's just something to do. If I get too hot and start itching, I'll shave it. If not, I won't. One of those things.

 Q. What was the best birdie you made today? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Best birdie? Number 1, just because it was the first hole and got things going, eagle on 9 was probably the best hole.

 Q. What did you hit? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: 5-wood.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 LUCAS GLOVER: 16, 17 feet, probably. But hitting birdie on 1 makes me feel like I'm getting the ball going in the right direction or getting the round going in the right direction. I hit a lot of wedges close and played the par-5s really well, so...

 Q. Is this as easy as the course will play the rest of the week, do you think? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, the greens were firmer than they were yesterday already. So, yeah, if we don't have any pop-up storms that saturate the place, we should have a pretty good test come Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT