WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2011
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Sum up your round today. Are you glad it turned out that way, frustrated? How do you size up the round?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I'm happy with no bogeys, but I felt like I left a couple out there, just some putts I could have been aggressive with but I wasn't. I'd like to have that one back on the last, just a little misread. But I played well, like I said, no bogeys out there. Around here on the weekend, I'm fine with that.   
 But just make a few more putts tomorrow, be a little more aggressive. I was off on the speed by maybe two rolls all day. Downhill I was respecting too much. It was the Quail Hollow respect; we're so used to the balls rolling out. You know, with the rain and stuff we've had, they're just not.   
 But I'm happy with 69. All rounds in the 60s so far. It's going to take a low one tomorrow, Jonathan is playing so well. I'm happy for him.  
  
  Q. When I talked to you Wednesday I said what are the keys for you to be successful this week, and you said there's probably about six. All six have been pretty good?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I've been okay. I'll be honest, except I'm driving it like a woman. But I've been fortunate with some of my misses, some good breaks, some good escape shots. Number one for me is always putting, and then through two rounds I was putting beautiful, and I didn't putt bad today, just didn't make as many. I'm giving myself plenty of opportunities, I've just got to cash some in tomorrow and get off to a good start.  
  
  Q. Emotionally this is where you've wanted to be for a long time, in the hunt on a Sunday?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, like I said yesterday, I've been driving home a lot on Friday evenings, so it's nice to play a weekend. But I'm right there. Jonathan is going to be hard to catch. He's a great front runner. He's playing great. I played with him Tuesday and saw him at home last week, so he's playing great.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about today.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, I played well, three birdies, no bogeys, all on par-5s. I feel like I left a few out there with the putter, just wasn't aggressive enough, kind of over-respected some downhillers that I felt like I could have made, and then 18 misread about a seven-footer there. But no bogeys on the weekend at Quail Hollow I'm very happy with. I'm pleased with my game and I'd like to hit a few more fairways and give myself a little more opportunities to be aggressive, but I'm very pleased.   
  
  Q. There's a lot of guys within five or six shots of this thing. How great is this Sunday going to be?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, somebody is going to have to get off to a good start. Jonathan is a great front runner. He's playing so well. I played with him Tuesday and saw him at home the last couple weeks. He's playing great. It's going to take a good start and a low round because he's playing well enough to where he could shoot in the 60s again tomorrow and blow everybody away. But we'll see. You know, I've got to get off to a good start and just take care of my stuff.   
  
  Q. As far as this course right now, no rain probably tomorrow. Is it going to get a little more crusty, a little harder?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know, I think it depends on if they water or not. It's up to them. But the greens aren't quite as quick as they have been. I think the rain we've had has done a little bit of that. But everything is perfect. You know, the fairways are like carpets, the greens are rolling great, just got to get it in the hole a few more times.  
  
  Q. You've tweaked some things in your game. Are you right where you want to be or is that a day-to-day existence?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Irons are great. I feel like I'm pretty solid with those. Not driving it like I'm used to, but it's fixable.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT