JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2019
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The albatross, you don't see that every day.  What was the club and everything?  Walk us through that.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, 3-iron.  Just honestly, I was trying to hit it over short left, chip up the green, and I pushed it five, eight yards, and it bounced and rolled and I guess it went in.  I didn't see it.  I hit it solid, but I wasn't -- I was just trying to make birdie, and I got lucky with a 2.
Q. There's a plaque on 2 from Frank Lickliter.  Are you going to expect a plaque here coming up after doing it a second time?
LUCAS GLOVER: No.  Frank's was probably where he was aiming.  No, I don't expect anything.
Q. Bogey-free round; what else was going well for you out there?
LUCAS GLOVER: After the first couple holes, I was pretty precise with everything.  I missed the fairway, missed two greens with wedges on the first two holes, so it was a Little Rocky, and then hit a couple good shots on 3, a couple good shots on 4 and kind of got going on 5 and then obviously 10.  Any time you can shoot 30 on the back nine, you're pretty happy.
Yeah, I did that, hit a couple close, made all my short putts and long one.
Q. How precise on the back -- seems like it's starting to get a little fiery out there.  You birdied both of the par-3s on the back side.  Did you really feel like you were in a groove then?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it's always nice to look up and the ball is going where you're looking, and I did that a lot.  Obviously 17, poor tee shot, kept me from making birdie there.  But yeah, I mean, I was hitting my numbers and not much wind, and doing that here you get a lot of birdie putts, and I made a few.
Q. Your playing partners had three eagles besides your double eagle.  That's a lot of good golf, a lot of balls going in the hole.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, our scorers had a nice time I would say.  They had a good time.  They were entertained.  But it was fun.  Those guys, Joaquo and then Seamus played great, and happy to see, and we kind of drug each other along, got some momentum going, and yeah, we had some fun.
Q. What did they have to say after the albatross?
LUCAS GLOVER: Just high fives.  We were all grinding at that point and trying to make the cut and be here for the weekend, and then we all kind of got it going.  Yeah, we had a nice time, and everybody was happy for each other with all the good fortune on the nine holes there, so it was good.  We had a nice time.
Q. Have you ever had one of those, even in a practice round?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I had one in college way back when, just playing with the guys, but first one in years, 20 years probably.
Q. What kind of course are you expecting over the weekend, firmer, faster?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I mean, it's going to be hot.  I don't know if there's any rain in the forecast, but yeah, the ball is bouncing, greens are firm.  It's nice.  It's great actually.  I've never seen it play this firm, so it's fun.  Hopefully it stays dry.  I know we're going to have some heat, but hopefully we can keep the storms away.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT