WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2011
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I know tough finish there on 16 and 17. Just comment on the day and still in good shape going into the weekend.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, sure. I've been driving home a lot on Fridays, so I'm happy to get to play golf tomorrow. Yeah, good start, played good. I just hit a couple bad shots coming in. You get penalized on those two, three holes especially, bad shots. But happy with the way I played, putting great, so just got to give myself more opportunities.  
  
  Q. You had some really big swings there, like on 10, rolling that putt in. If it doesn't hit the hole it's going to keep going. You had that type of round.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know if that one was going very fast. I had a couple that were going pretty fast that went in. But yeah, I mean, it didn't look like a birdie at all, and make a long one, kind of keep things going. But turned it around on 11 and catch a flier and hit it 20 yards over the green, so it gives and takes, especially on a course like this. You know, you hit bad shots, you get penalized, you hit good shots, you get rewarded. That's the way it should be.  
  
  Q. You've been working through swing changes and everything. How close are you confidence-wise to feeling like you're there?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I'm there. I've had a pile of birdies in two days and hit a lot of shots close and a lot of shots where I was looking where I wasn't going at the pin. Just a couple feet on 16 from having a wedge in and had it up against the lip, but 17 was a terrible shot, and then 18 was -- that was kind of bread and butter for me, left pin with a good number and just hit a poor shot.   
 But I feel good. I hit a lot of mid irons and shot irons right where I was looking and made a bunch of putts, so it feels good.   
  
  Q. You had it going pretty good with Pat. He's a quick player like yourself.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, we had a good time. We kind of chased each other around yesterday, and then today he just hit a lot of great shots coming in, made a bunch of birdies. You know, the way he's hitting it, the way he's driving it, he's going to be tough to catch. But we had a good time. Pat is a good friend and a good guy. I was kind of hoping we could tug Vaughn along with us, but he had a couple bad breaks. But he's playing great, so we did have fun.  
  
  Q. Where is your game now compared to Bethpage? Can you even compare it?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, no. I don't know. I hadn't been playing great up until then, either. But you know, the way it is out here, you catch one little thing on the range, it can change a week. I happened to do that. I feel like my golf swing is better and more efficient now. It's just a trust issue, and I'm a better putter now than I was then. I just got real streaky that week. I feel like all around I'm a better player, it's just putting it all together.   
  
  Q. You did have a good stretch that summer.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, that was just confidence off of Bethpage, and I just didn't have any thoughts, didn't have any issues, had a lot of confidence and was playing good. But swing then was a lot of timing, and my timing was there for that four-, five-, six-week stretch, and I don't feel like it's as much that now as it was. That's what I mean. I might be more efficient with my golf swing now. It's been a work, but I'm pleased with where it's going and where it is right now.   
  
  Q. How long will you let the beard grow?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Oh, I don't know. I guess when it either gets too hot or when I get more than 120 comments from men. That's a little disturbing. But no, it was just something to do in the fall and I kind of liked it, so I kept it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT