WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2011
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you feel like it's been coming around?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I've been working hard, just a little swing change and just got to get some confidence in it. Good shots were there today; bad shots it still wasn't quite there. I think some of that was due to the golf course. With a north wind this course plays long. Some of those holes played awful hard. 12, always a hard hole, and you get a left-to-right wind on that tee shot with a draw is a hard shot. 
 But you know, I feel like I bogeyed three of the hardest holes, 3, 4 and 12, so I don't feel like I gave any away, which is a good feeling. Excuse me, I birdied 4, so I kind of stole one there. 12, 17 and 3, excuse me. 
 But I felt like I played the par-5s a little better, a little more aggressive. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, as soon as I finished eating breakfast it just kind of sat there.

 Q. The swing change you referenced, is that recent or --
 LUCAS GLOVER: Since November. I had it across the line all last year, and just taking some time to get it pointed the right way at the top and then impact is different. Today I was just going to go play, hit shots and --

 Q. So is that under a different coach?
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, same guy. We're working hard and doing the right stuff, just got to be patient and wait for it to come around.

 Q. You're a good example of when you change something it's not like it clicks in overnight necessarily. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I mean, little changes or Band-Aids sometimes work, but this is something that costs consistency, and that's what we're aiming for. It's tough to start a year with a new thought and a new move, but when it's there, it's right. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LUCAS GLOVER: It was something that needed to be addressed probably last summer, but middle of the year I didn't want to do it. And then off-season it didn't -- I feel like I've got the club where I want it, but just, like I said, you change something up there and then the impact is different. Your spine angle changes, everything changes a little bit. Impact was an issue, and that's always been the best part of my swing; no matter where I felt like I put it in the back it was always there, and then next thing you know, it's better there and worse here. But it's something that -- it's a work in progress. Everybody is always tweaking or changing, but it was kind of -- I moved my hands that much and the club would move that much. That's a big difference for us. 

 Q. Do you think what you did today is sustainable for the rest of the week?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. My good shots were borderline great, and my average shots were okay. I hit a couple squirrelly drives but was able to make par or at the worst bogey on some of them. I had to chip out on 12, and I made a good 5. That's a hard hole, and with the cold this morning and that wind, it was tough. But yeah, I hit a lot of shots close, and out here that's a good feeling. Obviously I played the par-5s a couple under. I played well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT