TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2011
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Lucas, I know we left you yesterday at 18, you went straight to the range and probably hit a bunch of balls and obviously probably paid off today with 7-under 64; nice playing. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Played well today. Just made some putts early and then started hitting some good iron shots on the front, my back nine and made a few of those. I actually lipped a few out and missed a few ten to 12-footers on 2, 3, 5 and 6. But very good. Overall I was pleased.

 Q. Anything that you went over there and worked on?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Same thing I've been working on since the last off-season, and that was pretty big swing change for me, hitting the club more down the line at the top. Had a little trouble with it today and I had a little trouble with it on 15 today.
 But kind of righted the ship with a little different thought and hit some better iron shots. Still not as crisp as I would like, but I made putts when I needed to, and never had anything too out of whack that cost me a bogey coming in. So I was very pleased. 

 Q. Was there anything that you can point to that sort of kick-started the round or kept it going, any highlight?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, I got off to a good start again. I got off to a good start yesterday and birdied the first two and did it again today and birdied 12, as well, so I was 3-under through three and birdied 14, just got off to a hot start and I was hitting nice shots and confidence grows. 
 You know, I wish I would have made a few more putts on the front. Could have been one of those wow rounds but it wasn't, but best round of the year by far so pleased.

 Q. Talk about the confidence that comes from seeing good shots?
 LUCAS GLOVER: When you look up and it's starting where you want and you've got a lot of 12-, 14-footers, you have to feel like eventually make a few, and it did, playing the par 5s better today and I drove it better. Very pleased. Still will have a little practice this afternoon and see what happens over the weekend. 

 Q. Stewart Cink was talking about making a swing change; when you find yourself in between -- like Tiger --
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's easy on the range. I said yesterday, I had the best warmup in a year yesterday, and then after the round, I hit it great. It's just one of those things, when you get on the golf course, it's different. Doesn't matter where it goes out there, but you've got a tucked right pin on a 5-iron that's a little different ballgame. 
 You know, you see a guy when they trust it, you don't really think about it, and that's what I'm trying to get to. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT