WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2011
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 5-under 66, obviously the weather didn't make it easy, but you got it done. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: It turned out better than I thought when I got out here this morning. But you know, it was cold, and it's getting colder. But sun was out, so it wasn't too bad. 

 Q. How cold was it? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Cold enough for a thermal layer. I never came out yesterday. I came out to get my putter out, and then they called everything off and I just swung a club and putted in the room. But I think it was probably about the same. But I don't think anything thawed out yesterday. Might have been more shade or something.

 Q. Did it feel a noticeable difference on the shots carrying today? Did you have to adjust? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Early on we did, yeah. I think if I was playing tonight I might have to think about it a little bit, too. But out here with no humidity, the ball goes a little further anyway, so I think it might have been more like a sea level day to be honest with you. There weren't any tee balls that you went, man, I really hit that one a long way or something like that. I think it was maybe like a day in San Diego instead of a day in Phoenix.

 Q. Were you able to go any holes without somebody commenting on your beard?
 LUCAS GLOVER: No. I'm worried about a bunch of the guys asking me for my phone number, but they keep commenting on it, so that's going to be my line next time.

 Q. What's been the best comment?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know, you get a lot of "Grizzly" and "Brian Wilson." 

 Q. How long have you been growing it?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know, seven, eight weeks. I started the 1st of December.

 Q. Are you going to stick around with it?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know, just lazy, something to do.

 Q. How was 16 today?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I hit a good shot, so they didn't get on me too bad. A good shot for me on that hole, 25 feet.

 Q. Any changes you made this year?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, new driver, new putter today. I stuck with the Nike Method putter, but a different model, and then a completely different driver. I was using a four-year old driver technology-wise, and went with something new. So we'll see.

 Q. Did you make any swing changes or anything in the off-season?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Nothing dramatic, just a tweak or two probably like everybody else. I'm not cross-handed putting or anything that drastic. Just trying to tighten it up a little bit on the backswing and just trying to get more consistent.

 Q. The beard probably just changed the whole center of gravity?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, trying to turn underneath the beard and complete my turn that way. And I think Coop cleans the clubs on it.

 Q. How is Clemson's recruiting class?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Very good, very good. I hope we're not done.

 Q. Which driver did you go to and why, and how difficult is it to change drivers? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: For me obviously pretty difficult because I've probably tested 50 in the last three years, because like I said, I've been stuck -- I think I started with the Square when I hit it forever in '07, and I tested a bunch, and distance-wise there wasn't anything drastic and I didn't hit any of them any straighter. But I hit this one nice and straight and about as far, so I decided to try it. I hit it okay. 
 I'm not exactly very trustworthy in my golf swing right now off the tee sometimes, but it was good. It was hard for me because I was so comfortable with that other one. But there's not many heads left in that model, so eventually I was going to have to change, so I thought I'd give it a try.

 Q. What is the new one?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Max Black. Walk by my bag and make sure that's right. Seriously, I can't even remember. 

 Q. When was the last time you played in a ski hat? Has it been a while?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I mean, at home. I couldn't tell you in a tournament. It was a cold winter back home. I had to practice at home to get ready for last week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT