WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2010
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LUCAS GLOVER: You know, we'll work on things a little bit this evening and try to eliminate the mistakes but still got to be aggressive and make the same amount of birdies, probably more.

 Q. On 17, I was trying to describe the shot. You were in a divot. You hit a terrific approach up there to about 12 feet.
 LUCAS GLOVER: I had a perfect lie yesterday in the middle of the fairway and missed the green by 15 yards. Might need more divots. Just a bad break and hit a good shot. Wish I would have converted the 12-footer. It was downhill. I respected it too much. Didn't hit it hard enough. But happy with the way things are going. Need a good round tomorrow, obviously, so we'll get some work in and then figure it out.

 Q. I know you've been working on your driving a lot. Is it coming around?
 LUCAS GLOVER: It did yesterday. Yesterday was okay but you know, they're two yards out of the fairway instead of 20. You know, got to hit it in the fairway here to attack and tomorrow I might have to hit a 3-wood to hit the fairway, make sure I got a good shot at making birdie but we'll figure it out and get out here in the morning and figure it is all out.

 Q. This is a course where you have to start fast, especially the final round tomorrow. You got to get birdies right off bat.
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The holes coming in are good, 18, especially and 16 wherever the pin is going to be. 17, you know. It's short enough for that hole. Yeah, you need to get off to a fast start and looks like Arjun is playing great. Somebody is going to have to get on him early and try to shake him up a little bit.

 Q. Disappointed or not today?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Disappointed with the result but pleased with the comeback. 2-over through 3 and hadn't hit a good shot for three holes. To bring it back and to finish the way I did is fine but I'm going to have to eliminate those mistakes to even have a chance. 
 Looking back on it, I know what I did wrong. I've got to fix it now. I've got time to do it. We'll see what we've got tomorrow.

 Q. How difficult was it to get a positive attitude on the back-9 when you --
 LUCAS GLOVER: Just not a good putt. Hit a good shot on 14, 15, made those and hit some very average shots coming in but get one back on 18 out of rough was nice, to get one back. See where we sit tomorrow and when we start and got to make some birdies.

 Q. Are you surprised that a Monday qualifier with no Tour status is on top of this?
 LUCAS GLOVER: No. I've played with Arjun begun 25 times. I know how good he is. Obviously he's playing to his strengths right now, doing what he's got to do and everybody knows him out here. He's played out here for a long time. He'll be back, if not tomorrow then very soon. He's very talented and a great player. I'm not surprised at all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT