WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2010
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: Lucas Glover got to 11-under, also. If you'll talk a little bit about the round and then we'll take some questions.
 LUCAS GLOVER: It was good. Made a bunch of birdies, couple bogies and felt like I left a couple out there, to be honest. I played good, solid and, you know, going to take two more low ones. We'll figure it out and go from there.
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Couple questions.

 Q. Yesterday the group that you were playing in, all three of you shot 6-under. Today it was a little bit more varied in that group. Is it easier one way or the other?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. I think you can ride on some guy's coattails. They got off to pretty fast start yesterday and I was playing catch-up, and today, it was kind of the opposite. You know, I got off to a quick start and then they made two good comebacks today to shoot good scores. 
 So, you know, I think you just carry each other along if it's going good and, unfortunately, it can go the other way, too.
 It was nice to play with -- and all three of us are good friends. So that helps. It was nice to play with guys that are playing good. That's always the case.

 Q. I read yesterday where you said that you had worked really hard after Whistling Straits. Is there anything in particular that you were changing or fiddling with about your game?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I changed my swing and my putter grip. Other than that -- my grip on my putter, not the actual putter grip. Just a little swing change I've been working on. It's finally clicking a little bit. And just a minor adjustment with the way I was holding it seems to be helping.

 Q. Did you come upon that yourself or was it --
LUCAS GLOVER: No. I went to Sea Island, worked with Mike Taylor and we worked on some stuff and videoed, and the putting thing was kind of my idea and then he confirmed that it looked pretty good but it's something in my golf swing that I always fight and I needed to work on it again and, you know, two days worth it's worked pretty good. Under the gun, we'll see how it holds up.

 Q. Along those lines, does it feel good or does it feel natural, or are you forcing yourself to do it?
 LUCAS GLOVER: It feels good. I've always been a drawer of the ball. I haven't been able to draw it lately. I finally figured out why I haven't been able to draw it lately. 
 Once I get it down and where it feels natural again, then I'll be able to really be comfortable because it will be back to my old ball flight which I'm looking forward to. It's hard to aim when you're not seeing it go the other way.

 Q. Probably sick of this question, but how badly do you want to play well this week in terms of an audition for the Ryder Cup?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I mean there's no added pressure. Obviously I know what I need to do and that's play well and no different than any other year but Corey knows how bad I want to play and make the team and to do that I got to relax and play good golf and work hard and, you know, shoot good scores. 
 If I do that I'll make it. I feel comfortable saying that. I mean he hasn't said one way or the other but if I play good the next three weeks and prove to him that I'm playing well going in, then, you know, I feel like the year and a half I've had, I'll make it. But I have to believe that just in order to prepare correctly and make sure I'm doing the right stuff.
 But, you know, if I don't, I'll sit at home and pull just as hard for them as if I was there.

 Q. Is it easier to relax here because I know you're familiar with this course and you've played this as a kid?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it is. I'm familiar with the course and I like it, which is more important. You know, you always feel good -- feel like you're going to play well at a course you like. I like the course. 
 You got to hit good shots and obviously putting is key this week because everybody is hitting it 10, 12 feet about every hole, it feels like. But, yeah, it is. It's relaxing week staying with family and having a good time in the evenings and, you know, just golf. So, it's fun.
 MARK STEVENS: Anything else? Okay. Thanks a lot Lucas. Good luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT