WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2010
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Lucas, nicely done, a 64. The three of you looked like you were having a lot of fun out there.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Looked a little fishy in the scoring tent when we all came in with the same thing. We played well. You know, I think we all played pretty solid all today and two bogeys between our group. It was solid. Lot of fairways, lot of greens and we all putted pretty well. Good day.  
  
  Q. Was that the key for you as well, just fairways and greens and stay out of trouble?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I didn't drive it as well as I would have liked but got out of trouble a couple times early even and I think that kind of kept things going for the round. I putted well and, you know, you putt well, make some of those 12, 15-footers, the score seems to go down pretty quick.   
 I'm pleased with the way I putted. I'd like to have the one on the last back but misread it and shoved it a little bit. I'll take 64 on the first round. So, I'm happy.  
  
  Q. Almost a home game. That feels good to you.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Lot of family here and staying with some family.  
  
  Q. Little something for you to prove at that 10, 11 on the Ryder Cup list. Captain Corey is watching.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: He knows what it means to me and knows how much I want to play. If I'm not playing well leading up to it when he has to pick, then I probably don't deserve it but, you know, keep doing the things I'm doing and working on what I'm working on and, you know, if I make it, I make it. If I don't, I'll pull just as hard for them.  
  
  Q. You obviously feel you're heading in the right direction.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: After last week I worked hard Sunday, Monday and Tuesday and got some stuff straightened out. Now I got to hit a couple more fairways and knock in those 10-footers because you're going to have a lot of them this week with the way the greens are.  
  
  Q. Keep up the good work. Thanks.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT