THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 1, 2010
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: Lucas, thank you for taking the time to come in. This will be your sixth start here at the Memorial. You have got one Top 10. Obviously in two weeks you will be depending at the U.S. Open. If you want to talk about the state of your game right now and your thoughts going into the U.S. Open in a couple of weeks.
 LUCAS GLOVER: The game is good. Didn't make enough birdies last week. Hit the ball good. Just trying to gear up and peak at the right time to play well here and then have a good week of practice and defend at the Open. 

 Q. A year ago this time, would it have entered your mind that you could win the U.S. open? What was your mindset at this point in time two weeks leading into it?
LUCAS GLOVER: I think you do yourself a disservice if you don't come into every week believing you can win. There is a hundred and however many guys in the field this week, and top to bottom, every one of them can win. I can't truthfully say no to that. Was I playing well enough to believe that? That may be a different story. 
But after the qualifier, I knew I was in a good place. I had a good week of practice. When I got there still, I was still hitting the ball well. One of those things where I just had to tell myself to stay patient and make some putts, I'd have a chance. That's just the way it happens. 

 Q. How much extra coverage did you have since you won the U.S. Open? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: I did a 20-minute teleconference and that was it, from home.

 Q. That's it?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. They are not like you; they are pretty easy.

 Q. At a major championship, do you have a rule of thumb as to how you approach a shot when you are in trouble? What I'm trying to figure out is how you guys turn 78s into 74s, the key to turning a double bogey into a bogey. Do you have a rule of thumb when you approach that shot?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I just at a major, any tough event, you have got to realize that every shot is very important. And if you can save a shot or two a round, if you are in trouble, you are doing yourself a big favor, because there's not that many birdies to be had, especially at a U.S. Open or a British Open if the weather is that bad. 
 You hit it in the hay and you could get it to the green, but it might not be the best shot. Or you hit it in a pot bunker at a British Open, and all right, I'd have to pull this off. But if I don't, I'm really -- you know, that kind of thing. 
 So just for me personally, I have to weigh that. Is the risk worth the reward or is a bogey really going to kill me at this stage of the game? So it's different from Thursday to Sunday or Friday to Sunday even. Sunday, if you're any type of leader, you're one back and you've got to make something happen, you might take a chance. On Thursday or Friday, you are still trying to get in position to win. It might be a little different. For me, it is just weighing the risk versus the reward, and then trying to be smart and save every shot possible. 
 I think as we play tougher and tougher courses it's getting to be more and more like this each week, not just at the majors. I don't think there is any certainly formula. I think it is a personal thing. Some guys are a lot more aggressive than others, so they might have a chance to make more birdies earlier. For me it's just having to weigh both ways.

 Q. Will you do anything different in your preparation for Pebble? Practice certain shots a little more at high rough, low rough?
 LUCAS GLOVER: For me, you know you have got to be in the fairway. You know you've got to be driving the ball well. I will spend extra time on tee shots. At Pebble you've got to fit some tee shots in, draws and fades and different stuff. I'll work on my shape. 
 Then, you know, it tests every part of your game. For me, it is that first. That and obviously the short game. I never work on my short game less. You've got to be in the fairway first at an Open just to even have a chance a birdie putts. You've got to hit those little bitty greens. And you're not going to do that out of the rough. I'll make sure I feel good with the driver when I get there. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yes, sir, the Monday after.

 Q. How did you breeze through it? Did you make it easily?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I played real good in the morning, I think 63 in the morning. Then just kind of hung on in the afternoon, shot a couple under. I think we had 14, 16 spots, and I think I might have finished fourth or fifth or something. I guess that would be breezing through, but yeah. 

 Q. I'm sure you are aware that not many guys have done it that way, gone out the win the Open. (Indiscernible.) Can you put that accomplishment into perspective? 
LUCAS GLOVER: Right. Obviously that was -- I didn't know any of those stats at the time. Looking back on it, just where I was with my game and a little something clicked here on Sunday practicing. I never went over to play a practice round or anything at those courses. I played there before. I spent most my time practicing here. I was hitting a ball well and found a little something on the range and took it over there, shot 63. I said, well, that must work, that kind of thing. But I think you probably see more and more of it as the years go on, because there are so many great players who aren't in the field. You know, you go over there Monday or we go to the one in Memphis on Monday, and it'll look like a Tour event. You will have 90 or 100 Tour players for 12, 15, 18 spots, whatever it is. That's a pretty good field. 
  So I think it will happen more and more. But for me, it was -- you know, I didn't really think about it, that that would be a bigger deal than it was. 

 Q. In a field like this where it's probably the best since The Masters almost, Tiger is back, it's Jack's Tournament. Does that give (indiscernible)?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Sure. I think everybody marks this one down as a good one, a big one. Other than the majors and the TPC, there are four, five tournaments that you want to play really well in. 
 Anytime Tiger is in the field, you know you are going to have to be on top of your game to win. Phil is playing the way he is and the rest of the great players here. You know, you don't want to approach any different once the bell rings on Thursday, but you like to be in good form when you get here. 

 Q. How does this course compare to U.S. Open course?
LUCAS GLOVER: It's a lot wider in the fairways, but the greens are more like in Augusta. So you have to -- you can be aggressive off the tee, then you've got to be careful around the greens here. Drive it where you are supposed to, hit some good iron shots, make some good putts, you can shoot pretty low. 
 There's a lot of danger to be had out there too, if you are not on your game.

 Q. How would you feel if there was like a sideline reporter and they asked questions you after a great shot?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't think I would like that too much, because eventually they'd ask me about the bad shots, too. I think it's fine the way it is personally.

 Q. Could you see where that might draw more people to watch like a tournament --
 LUCAS GLOVER: They do a little bit on the Senior Tour where they're walking down the fairway and Billy Ray or somebody will chat with them from the Golf Channel. And I'm not that big of a golf fan when I'm not playing, so I don't know if that adds anything to it or not. For me personally, I wouldn't care for it.

 Q. I presume it would disrupt your --
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think so. I think so because you are going to have to stop, and the camera crew has to get in place. Then you get on the clock, and then the guys behind you are yelling, just because you hit a good shot, you're going to slow us down. There is a lot of different stuff that could go on with that. 

 Q. After the Open last year, you kept that going for a while. You were playing at a pretty high level. I don't remember, but you played a lot of weeks in a row. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I played five in a row after.

 Q. Have you been at that level at any time since with your game, do you think? And if not, why not? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think I was -- Charlotte and TPC I was playing, hitting the ball and playing as well as I've played all year. But not at the level I was at the Open and the PGA. You know, it was -- at Charlotte, I hit it great, didn't putt that great. Finished wherever I did. And then TPC, I hit it the same as Charlotte and putted well and finished third. Obviously very pleased with that. Didn't win. 
 You know, a short answer to your question is probably no. But I'm not that far off. I'm doing the right things, working on the right stuff. You know, you just wait for it to come together four times in a row. 
 MARK STEVENS: Thanks a lot, Lucas, for taking the time. Good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT