THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2010
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Lucas, though you didn't win this, you had to feel good about clearing a hurdle this week.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, yeah, I played good. Yeah, I played well, just happy to turn it around. It wasn't a very fast start, but I finished strong, and it was a good week.  
  
  Q. I'm sure you must know that it's been known for a while, Tim Clark's been known as one of those players, probably one of the better players on TOUR without a win. What do you know about Tim and what do you know about what that might be like to go through? Just anything you know about his game?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I know he's an unbelievable player, very straight, obviously hits his irons very good and putts awful well. But, you know, it's been a long time coming. You wouldn't find one guy in the locker room that wouldn't say he was going to win soon, and he deserves it. So kudos to him if it does go his way. Robert's got a putt on 18 there to maybe do something. But if it works out for Tim, couldn't happen to a better guy and more deserving person.  
  
  Q. What do you feel like you have to do for your game and schedule-wise leading up to your defense of the US Open?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: My schedule's set. I've got to keep doing a lot of what I did this week; that's hit the ball on the fairway and make those 15-footers. You know, you're going to get a lot of those for birdie with -- you know, if you've got mid irons and short irons and you're hitting the ball good, you can't get to all the pins. You're going to have 15-footers for birdie or 20-footers for birdie and you have to capitalize on those well. I did that well this week.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised on how the course changed say between Friday to now?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Maybe even more so for me, because I was early on Friday, then very late yesterday. So, yeah, those first couple of bounces were a little surprising to me, but I knew what I was into today or getting into today. But it played just like we thought today.  
  
  Q. Looked like you were having a lot of fun there on the back nine.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, yeah, if you make a bunch of birdies you usually do. You know, just that was kind of the M.O. this week was just don't be a weenie out there and have fun. Just do what I can to enjoy it.  
  
  Q. Do you think you'll just carry that attitude on or was that something for this course?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, it's probably a good attitude to have; so I've been working on that about a year now, and it seems to be working, so I'm happy.  
  
  Q. Talk about 17 and that putt over there.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I said, I've seen that putt a lot on TV, because I'm usually sitting at home at the house on Sunday for this tournament.   
 But I had a spot picked out right on the ridge. It's a speed putt. I knew it went left down the ridge and kind of back right at the end, and I hit my spot with good speed. It got right to the left edge, and said it's got a chance because I knew it was going to fall right at the end, and luckily it did.   
 That was a lightning-in-a-bottle type putt, but it went in.  
  
  Q. Five birdies in the last six or seven holes. Did you just run out of holes here today?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, no, it just got to a point where I had to be really aggressive, and I pulled a bunch of stuff off, to be honest with you.   
 I made a 20-footer on 16, a 50-footer on 17. I hit some nice shots too and made birdies, and I hit some nice shots and didn't make birdies. I missed an 8-footer on 13, and I had a couple opportunities on the front I'd like to have back. But I'm very thrilled with under par today the way I started.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT