THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2010
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it was good. I think just solid again, just one hiccup over there on 14, and I'd like to have that read back on 17. But 3-under around here in the wind, I'll take.   
  
  Q. You found your comfort zone here all of a sudden.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, a lot of 3-woods and hit a lot of greens. But I said it yesterday, like anywhere, if you're hitting it good and you're getting a lot of birdie putts.   
 I had to scramble a little bit but I never put myself in a spot where I couldn't get it up-and-down. I didn't on 14, but I played well.  
  
  Q. Your new game plan seems to be working for you.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I actually thought about it a little harder yesterday. I fibbed a little bit. I hit driver on 14 and 15 yesterday, too. But I've said it to myself a lot, you've got to be in the fairway, put the ball in the fairway, put the ball in the fairway, because I can't get to these pins out of the rough.   
 And whether that's laying back to a mid-iron, that's better for me than a 9-iron out of the rough, and that's been my game plan all week.   
  
  Q. It's kind of a big leap from trying to make the cut to now you're thinking about winning it.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, well, it is. But I'll do the same thing -- yeah. I'm thrilled the way I'm playing, and I'm thrilled to have an opportunity to get in the mix again tomorrow and see what happens. But I've got to do the same things.   
 And it's going to be harder to get the ball close tomorrow. It's Sunday, so I'm going to have to hole some 15 footers. Hopefully, I'll have them to try to make, and again, to do that I've got to be in the fairway. We'll probably stick to our guns a little bit tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you have the calm and patience that you had at Bethpage last year?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I do. I'm having fun this week. And, you know, I guess it's different than Bethpage because it's more of a normal week, but it's been fun. It's been good.   
 Got a lot of friends here, and we're having fun and just enjoying it, trying to just do what we did Thursday, Friday and now today.   
  
  Q. The conditions are supposed to be much cooler tomorrow. How do you feel like the heat is impacting the tournament, and are you looking forward to better weather?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it could be 100, I guess, but 80 will be fine. No, it's been warm. I think we'll all be pleased with 80 instead of 92. You know, the course has firmed up, and it'll continue to do so with this wind. A cool front coming in, I imagine it'll blow a good bit overnight, so we might see some firmer conditions tomorrow.  
  
  Q. With Mother's Day, do you have a memory of being a kid that sticks out where your mom really helped your golf game?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, every day. Mom took me everywhere, and she raised me. So every day. Pretty good memory.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT