THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2010
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 9-under par going into the weekend. Talk about the first couple days and where you go from here.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it's been solid. One bogey through two rounds is more than a miracle here for me. This is my first cut here. So I don't have much experience. I've got no ideas where the holes will be in the next couple of days.   
 But I'm happy. I hit the ball great. You know, making some putts, and I think any course suits you if you're hitting it on the fairway and hitting it on the green, so very pleased.  
  
  Q. You guys had fun the last nine holes, last 18 holes that you played here. You said your mind seems to be in the right place?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it's been good. But that's a lot easier when you're hitting it where you're looking.   
 But I had a great week last week as far as ball striking. Didn't hole as many birdie putts, you know, those 10- to 20-footers as I have this week. So I think that's the difference. I'm still hitting it the same but making a few more of those mid-range putts and getting up-and-down a few more times.   
 But yeah, we've been having a good time. When you haven't had any success, that is about the last thing you can fall back on. So that's what I've done.  
  
  Q. How come you haven't had success here?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Maybe just not hitting it where I wanted and not knowing the course very well. There were a lot more 3-woods this year than the last couple for me. I remember hitting driver on 7. I hit 3-wood the last few days, just trying to hit the ball in the fairway and the first course. I hadn't been in the rough very much. And so if I had a lot of putts at birdie and simple chips if I've missed the greens.   
 But yesterday I made a few 10- to 12-footers for par that kept the round going, and today I made a 15-footer for par on 8 that felt like a birdie after a pretty average tee shot.   
 So all in all it's been just solid.  
  
  Q. You seem to be peaking in your game at this time of the year leading up to the US Open. Can you talk about this time?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think it's warmth. I'm from down here, from this area, so the hotter the better for me. But I don't mind it when it doesn't take you as long to get loose.  
  
  Q. Did you say a fairway first course?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yes.  
  
  Q. What do you mean by that exactly?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: The way the rough is, and the way the groove is now, you've got to be in the fairway. You've got to be in the fairway to attack the pins. And that's no secret. It's pretty much everywhere now with the grooves the way they are that's just the way it is. But here for me it's more. Other guys are different. I'm not as good out of the rough as some guys. But, you know, I've got to be in the fairway to get birdie putts, and that was my focus Tuesday and Wednesday when I played was to figure out what club I could hit in the fairway as much as possible, and it's been 3-wood this week.   
 I think I hit driver on just the par-5s today maybe. I think. Something like that. Okay.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT