MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2010
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You start rough and then bring it back there. Talk about the middle of the round.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Middle was good, started bad, finished bad. But I played well. Just a little iffy this morning and a little iffy this afternoon. It was a good day though. I knocked in a few putts, 1-under isn't too bad, I guess.  
  
  Q. Talk us through the eagle on 15 and how you felt after that one.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: It was just a good drive. I knew we had help and a good hole location to try to be aggressive and the ball got down there a pretty good ways and I had 6-iron in. It was 191 to where I had to land it, so I got 203 total. And that's a perfect 6-iron.   
 So just one of those things I had good vision because I did the same thing couple years ago, same hole location, same everything, with a 6-iron. So, but, just one of those things. Got to it landed in the right spot, got the right bounce and rolled up close.  
  
  Q. Now 16 we couldn't see, because we were backed up there. What happened at 16?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Just missed it where you can't miss it in that right bunker. Misjudged the wind a little bit and thought it was out of the right, but it swirled a little out of the left and just hit the wrong shot. And I had to hit a miracle shot just to keep it on top. So I got what I deserved there, which was a four.  
  
  Q. Are you kind of a little, can you kind of assess where your year has been so far and how you feel about it?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Very average. Haven't played very well, haven't put a tournament together yet. I was in position at San Diego and botched it on the back nine. And then other than at that I haven't really been there.   
 But same as last year, I didn't get off to quite a good start last year and worked hard and it all clicked. So I'm still doing the same stuff working on the right stuff, so when it clicks, just got to be ready.  
  
  Q. Any one part of the game right now that's causing you the most trouble?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Everything's a little squirrely, it's just not hitting it where I'm looking, not making many putts. But like I said, all that can change overnight.  
  
  Q. You're probably not in position to answer this because you've never been coming off a year before that you won a Major, but is there in your mind any kind of most major hangover for guys?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I can't speak for anybody else. For me it's just I did the same thing in the off season, I'm doing the same things now that did I before, and I will continue to do them.   
 Only difference for me is I'm not playing quite as much. I'm having a little extra off time to try to stay fresh. So hopefully that will pay off. But I don't know. Just working hard trying to do the right things.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, it was same game plan as just picking my spots, trying to make birdies where I could. And like 17, I got nine in there and I can't go at that flag, it's just a stupid play, you hit it over to the right you can't make four.   
 So I hit it 20 feet and had a 20-footer, thought I made it, left it two inches short. But there's holes where you have to do that.   
 16 was one of them I didn't do it. I made the wrong play and got, paid the price.   
 But then on 15 I could be aggressive because of the hole location because I hit a nice drive. It's just give and take out here. You got to pick your spots and all my bogeys were because I missed it in the wrong place.  
  
  Q. 18, did you -- obviously you left it way short. Did you just hit it out of there --  
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, oh, the putt?   
  
  Q. No, I mean the --  
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, I wanted to land it 191 which was the base of the hill and I landed it 192. And it just didn't get, it didn't bounce like I thought it would. I hit a good shot and you got to err short there and then 2-putt. And I erred short and 3-putted. So such is life. My fault. I got what I deserved.   
  
  Q. How did you turn things around after say 6 when you got things back on track?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I made a couple nice putts on 6 and 7. A 6-footer and a probably about a 5-footer with a lot of break.   
 And then hit a good wedge shot on 8 and made a nice putt on 9. So I knew I was going to have my opportunities.   
 Then I hit a good one on 12, a good full pitching wedge, and hit that one close.   
 And finally hit 13 in two.   
 And then hit a good shot on 15.   
 And it kind of snowballed after some confidence after a couple putts went in and made some pars and kind of got on a little string. It wasn't anything special, I just hit some nice shots and knocked in a few putts.  
  
  Q. Was there anything key to last season to get turned around after a slow start?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Just keep working, same thing, same as I said before, just keep working, know you're doing the right stuff and you can't stink forever, so.   
 If it doesn't, then you go back to change some things. But my good shots are still pretty good. Not that upset about that, just got to be patient, work hard.  
  
  Q. What did you get for your allergies were bothering you?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I've been taking Zyrtec all week and then I went for some local honey last night. I don't know how well that's working, we'll see.  
  
  Q. Is there any anything specific you're looking for tomorrow, out of tomorrow's round, a number you're going to shoot for?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: 58.   
 (Laughter.)   
 No, just same as today, just make, pick my spots, be aggressive where I can and then be smart where I can't. I know where all the holes are going to be, so I'll sit around tonight and figure it out or have a pretty good guess where they're all going to be, I don't know.   
 But you know, just got to figure it out and just try to hit it where I'm looking and make some putts. Just got to make birdies everywhere.  
  
  Q. You're going to Hilton Head next year?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yes, sir.  
  
  Q. It's a little off of this, but talking to Dustin Johnson a couple weeks back and asked him about Hilton Head and he said he wasn't going back and he said it just doesn't suit his game, which I guess I can see, but I don't know that it necessarily suits your game, but you go. Do you see that more as a loyalty thing?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, I like it. It's one of my favorite courses on TOUR. It's old school and like here, you don't have to trick anything up, it's just, there it is, go at it. If the conditions are calm you have low scores, if they're tough you have high scores. That's what golf's supposed to be about. You shouldn't have to have 700 yard par-5s and eight inches of rough to make it hard.   
 Hilton Head is not like that, it's more like a British Open or a Masters where you whatever the conditions gives you is how the scoring's going to be. And that's how it ought to be.   
 So it suits me fine. I like it. You got to drive it straight and make some putts. So it's like any other place, I guess. But it's a ball-striker's course, you got to hit your ball solid and know where it's going. And I think experience pays off there too.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT