FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 30, 2010
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You put a good round up today. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I played well. I'm very pleased. A bad break, and then maybe a bad decision all on the same hole on the 10th. But all in all, pretty pleased. I got myself a little bit closer, and that was the goal today.

 Q. Looked like you caught the hole a couple times and a chip-in and a pitch-in. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I sure wasn't making any 10-footers, so it was nice to see a chip go in, and then that pitch on 14 was -- that was a nice bonus. I just tried to get that one close, and it snuck in the low corner, so very pleased with that.

 Q. How would you say your health is right now?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Okay. Catching up I would say. But I'm all right.

 Q. Did it affect your play today?
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, no. I played well. That's the best I've hit the ball this week. I didn't putt as well as I putted the first two rounds, but not too bad.

 Q. What will you do between now and tomorrow to be prepared?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Drink some water, a lot of it. Just take care of that and get some rest, come out here ready tomorrow to make some birdies. 

 Q. What happened on 10?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Just hit a poor shot off the tee, rolled up against a tree, had to take an unplayable. Instead of going around, I tried to go under and didn't find the fairway, and three from there, and it added up to 6. But I've been hitting 3-wood there all week, and we decided to be aggressive with that back pin, and I just made a bad swing and then got a bad break and then made a bad decision, and that compounded to make a 6. That was my only over-par hole today, so not unhappy at all with the way I played, especially my ball-striking. That wasn't working the last two days. I was making a lot of putts and kind of scraping it, and today I hit it really good, and I was very pleased.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, if I drive it well, I feel good here. If you don't, obviously -- that's really anywhere, but here especially, because it is long, it is demanding, and if you hit the fairway you've got a good opportunity to give yourself a lot of birdie putts because the greens are soft. You know, like the course, like the views, and I have a good time out here.

 Q. Have you noticed any difference in how you're treated by the fans in general since last June?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, some of them know who I am for a change. No, they've been great, the fans. From the week after in Hartford until today, everybody has been wonderful. Playing with Phil here in his hometown was really cool today. The support he has here was really neat to see. It's similar for me in a couple places towards home, and I think it helps you out and gets you going a little bit.

 Q. Did the course seem a little bit like the Open course today? It seemed like a lot of guys were taking their lumps. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know, I wasn't here. 
 But you know this is an Open course; it's long, it's hard, it's demanding. You know, I'm happy with 68 most places, especially here. 

 Q. Why did you decide not to play next week?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I'm taking two off. I love LA, love Riviera, just haven't had much luck, and I haven't been home in four weeks. I took last week off and stayed out and practiced out west, and I haven't seen my wife in two. I never was committed, so it's not like I de-committed. But I need two off, and I'll play a couple out here in a row in the desert. It's just the way the schedule worked out this year. I wish I had better luck at Riviera because I love the golf course, but I haven't, so I'm going to take it off this year.

 Q. Are there a lot of tee shots here that fit your eye?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, all the ones that go right to left. You know, it's a hard golf course, and I know that going in, and I think it helps me with my patience. Most of you guys know me, that's an issue with me. I know going in when I step on the first tee I've got to be patient because that's the nature of the course. I think that helps me. I've had a couple chances the last four years to do really well here and came close, and I feel like I'm right back in position. Another good one tomorrow, we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT