PGA GRAND SLAM OF GOLF
October 20, 2009
Angel Cabrera
Stewart Cink
Lucas Glover
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JULIUS MASON: Angel Cabrera, after round one of the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, 1-under after 18 holes. Angel, just some thoughts on your round today.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I lost it a little bit today. My round was going well, and unfortunately, well, I bogeyed on 17 with a wedge in my hand.   
 But, well, tomorrow is 18 more holes so a lot of golf left.   
  
  Q. Do you feel that it started to get away from you after the 14th where your drive went a bit to the right and was in the rough and then you were having to pack it back? It looked like it was going to make the green and then it just rolled into the bunker.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: No, no, at that point, no, because I made a good birdie on 15. I came back.   
 And then on 16, I hit a very good shot and it went over the green and I made a bogey there, and I think at that point I started losing it a little bit.   
  
  Q. Can you compare the course today to the Mid Ocean in 2007, and just talk a little about the course and the challenges it presented?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I don't like to make comparisons but I think both courses are pretty good courses, and I would say, also, the two courses are a lot of scoring opportunities there. So you can make a lot of birdies.   
  
  Q. Today seemed to be one of the days where you had some putts were falling a little short or just breaking; how were the greens for you today?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I was feeling well today with my putting but sometimes it happens, sometimes the ball just doesn't drop it. Well, it happens, and tomorrow is another day.   
  
  Q. Five shots back, how do you fancy your chances tomorrow? Do you think you can still win this?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It's not going to be easy. Lucas is playing very well. But it depends on whether I can make a lot of birdies on the first few holes and put some pressure on.   
 JULIUS MASON: Angel Cabrera, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.   
 Stewart Cink, ladies and gentlemen, after the first round of the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, currently in second place at 4-under shooting a 67. Some thoughts on your round today and then we'll go to Q&A please.   
 STEWART CINK: I would guess I would have to say I was pleased with it. It was the first time around the course and seeing all the holes in more normal kind of weather.   
 So there was some feeling going on out there with everybody. I had some good looks at birdies and made a few and took advantage of the par 5s.  
  
  Q. Obviously you're only two shots back from Lucas, and I suppose the difference today was the two 65-footers that he had. What are the greens like from your point of view? How are you seeing them?   
 STEWART CINK: I think the greens are -- they are tricky to read, because in bermudagrass, they are more grain and they are too young to have grain established. So you think keep thinking there's some grain going towards the west or some grain going maybe down towards the coast, but it's not happening. You're not finding any grain.  
 I tended to over-read the grain in my putts today and I'll maybe slightly adjust for tomorrow. But overall the course is in immaculate condition considering it was dirt a year ago. It's remarkable.   
  
  Q. Obviously the wind was not as much of a factor today as it might have been, but still seemed to -- was it difficult to read in some situations because you had not seen the course before?   
 STEWART CINK: Yes, although today the wind was a little bit more predictable. It did make about a 30-degree change out there in the middle of the round, but it wasn't very hard to pick that wind up because it's blowing at a constant wind.   
 Not as much wind as yesterday but still a factor on every shot. It wasn't quite as much of a factor on putting.   
  
  Q. What were the highlights of your round today do you think?  
 STEWART CINK: I hit a pretty average shot on the 10th hole and then from the edge of the green chipped in. That's always a boost when you miss a green and still wind up with birdie. That was a little bit of a highlight. Although I didn't really keep my momentum going. Made a bogey and made a birdie the rest of the day. There were some holes that you could get to and I didn't.   
 So tomorrow just got to keep the accelerator down.   
  
  Q. Saw you guys taking some time out of the round off the tee box at 16, pointing out into the water. What were you looking at and talk about the scenic views about there.   
 STEWART CINK: Okay, as far as the scenic views, the water here is just astonishing, the color of it, when the sun shines.   
 Looking out over the 8th green and often 9th tee, the entire 16th hole, it's amazing seeing that. It's hard not to let your mind sort of be distracted and on the 16th hole there were some parrotfish, the water is so clear you could see them. They are three or four feet, and easy to spot because they are dark colors. Some have really bright green tails and all different colors. The Premier, Dr. Brown, said they were parrot fishing and you have to catch and release if you do catch one of those. He was clear on the law. (Laughter).  
 JULIUS MASON: Ending on parrotfish, thank you very much, Stewart.   
 Lucas Glover, ladies and gentlemen, in first place after the first round of the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, 6-under 65. Let's go through your day today, if you don't mind. I think we are going to have to go through your card as well, birdies, eagles, because we believe that 65 may tie the old course record here and because it's a new course, you might have the new course record.   
 So we want to make sure we are careful for history's sake. Your thoughts on your round today.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I played well. Really pleased. I didn't know what to expect. I didn't exactly burn up the driving range last week. But very pleased, knocked in a bunch of putts and all around happy.   
 JULIUS MASON: Let's go through the card if you don't mind.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: We all hit a bunch of good shots on 3. I think probably 8-footer there.  
 4, I made a long one all the way across the green. That was a hit-and-hope and it just went in it had to be 50, 60 feet.   
 And then 7, par 5, hit driver, 6-iron and a 2-putt.   
 10, I hit a wedge close four feet, knocked that in.   
 11, 9-iron about ten feet.   
 15, we all hit it close there, about a three- or four-footer and then.  
 Made another long one, probably 30 feet.   
  
  Q. You made the comment as you were going around, you said, "I had to come to Bermuda to make some putts." Have you been having trouble?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, Stewart and I were joking, we both played well today, where was that last week that, kind of thing. I didn't hole much at The Presidents Cup, so pretty excited to see some go in.   
  
  Q. Just talk about 16, because that seemed to be a hole that everybody really just had a problem with.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it's a hard hole. It's a shame because it's so pretty but it's so hard, as well. I think we had a little four, five minute break there just taking it all in and talking to the premiere and saw some parrotfish down there and had a good time on that tee and we all hit pretty bad shots.   
 But all in all, what a hole, great hole.   
  
  Q. And going into tomorrow, obviously you have to be happy with the position that you're in. How do you approach tomorrow?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Same as today. I'm just going to have fun tonight, come out tomorrow and get loose and go have fun. That's what we are here for. We tried -- every one of us tried hard every single hard today but we had fun in between shots and cut up and picked on each other a little bit, so we'll do the same thing tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Is there any way that not seeing the course the way that you normally would worked to your advantage today?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, truthfully, yeah, because might not have known where some of the trouble was. I think that's true on any course. Sometimes you can overthink.   
 So tomorrow, it will be one or the other; we will either know it a little better or we will be more scared.   
 But you know, I think with a yardage book and good conditions, I think anybody could have done what we all did today and that was go around with a pretty good round.  
  
  Q. You would never adopt that into your pre-round preparation, come in the day before and not look at the course?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, I don't -- I mean, I don't think so. But yesterday was extreme circumstances. Obviously I would have liked to have ridden the rest of the holes but I was too wet and wanted to go home.   
 JULIUS MASON: Thank you very much.   
 Y.E. Yang, ladies and gentlemen. He's in at even 71 today after the first round of the PGA Grand Slam of Golf.   
 Y.E., some thoughts on your round today and then we'll go into Q&A.   
 Y.E. YANG: I'm not at my top condition right now. I did wake up a little bit early, the jet-lag going around the world has taken a toll on me a little bit. But I tried my best. Unfortunately I didn't hit under par. Fortunately I didn't embarrass myself by hitting over par. The gallery, the weather, the whole golf course and the Country of Bermuda has been magnificent so far. Hopefully tomorrow I'll end in on a stronger note.   
  
  Q. You had an early setback at 4 when you first went into the bunker and hit the lip. Did that really set the tone for your round?   
 Y.E. YANG: Probably. Probably. It was certainly discouraging. I tried -- probably didn't calibrate my ankle enough to get up-and-down easily enough. That, as you said, sort of set the tone. I was on a good pace, and being tired, and then hitting a ridiculous shot like that in a bad way sort of got a bit discouraging.   
  
  Q. Having had a look at the course now, how will you feel about coming back tomorrow and having another go? If you feel slightly happier about going around?   
 Y.E. YANG: Yeah, it's a thoroughly different course from yesterday. The weather is different. I didn't have a chance to play the 18 holes.   
 So, yes, I think going into tomorrow, I have high hopes that I'm going to hit under par tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on 16? Have you ever seen a hole as beautiful as it is? Was it challenging? Are you looking forward to playing it again tomorrow?   
 Y.E. YANG: Yeah, it's a magnificent hole. Yes, you look around, it's quite nice, the ocean, great view, but it's a tough hole. So I think it's like a rose, pretty but with thorns. (Laughter).  
 JULIUS MASON: Y.E. Yang, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT