THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 7, 2009
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Who is the guy, Zach or Phil?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, Phil took him down most of the night last night. So Phil has the Wednesday title. We'll see on Sunday.   
  
  Q. Does this seem like the end of a long road; it's been a long season, a lot of stuff has happened?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I think it's a great way to kind of tie up the year for some guys. Some guys will choose to play some, other guys won't. Yeah, it's a fun week. If you don't choose to play anymore, it is a pretty good ending. But you know, pretty fun, pretty privileged week.   
  
  Q. What is your schedule after this?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I have Bermuda and then Tiger's event. That's it. Three fun weeks.  
  
  Q. What do you think makes a good partner for you? Is it compatibility of games, being friends?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, two years ago, I played alternate-shot with Scott Verplank, and we are good friends, but there couldn't be different game. Couldn't be more different players. He's medium length and very straight, and I kind of hit it everywhere and hit it far, but it worked out good.   
 Stewart and I are great friends, and I don't think there's two players on TOUR that are more alike than he and I. Same ball flight, same distance, same golf ball. I bet if you looked at our stats, it would be eerily close. I haven't, but I felt it would. Fred asked me who I felt comfortable, and so we play the same ball and we are good friends and we know each other's game.  
 As far as a good partner, you're just looking for somebody that you know won't quit, and Stewart won't quit and he knows I won't quit and a lot can be said for that. You don't want somebody to get down on himself or feel sorry for himself, and we'll do that.   
 We played fourball one round a couple of years ago, and played well. The other team played better down the stretch, but we played well together.   
  
  Q. How do you work out among yourselves who hits first?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: We sat down with Fred yesterday and Jay and went through it, and it's not a golf course where something sticks out. I want to say at Royal Montreal, maybe all of the par 3s were maybe one or the other, something like that, something strange. But it's two and two here, you get a par 5 one way, you get a par 5 the other way. And then it comes down to who is going to putt more. There's a bunch of different stuff.   
 We sat down talking about all this and Stewart said, you know what, it's not that big of a deal. You're going to hit off these holes and I'll hit off those holes, and is that okay, and I said, yeah, and he goes, all right, see ya. We don't want to over think it. That was kind of our deal. We put a little bit into it, not a whole lot.  
  
  Q. On Friday with the fourball, will it be more strategy with the drivable par 4s --  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Tomorrow, yeah, we'll have to plan on that. But Friday will be more of an aggressive day. You get two balls in play whenever you can to try to get two birdie putts. And if that means laying up on a couple of those drivable holes that's because that's where you feel comfortable, that's fine. You just want to maximize your opportunities.   
  
  Q. There must be a lot of talk that this event would be better off if the Internationals won -- is that motivating for you?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I like winning like everybody else.   
  
  Q. On a scale of one to ten where would you put it on intensity?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's a three until tomorrow and then it's like a ten, like every other week. More so this week. Nobody really likes the practice round. Stewart and I are not practice round players, neither one of us. Neither one of us tend to play very well and tend to get bored pretty easy. But like on TOUR when the bell rings, intensity is ten because everybody wants to win. Everybody has the same goal in mind just like THE TOUR Championship just like the Masters just like the Viking Classic. It's all the same.   
  
  Q. What number from the Giants --  
 LUCAS GLOVER: He was number 36, Juan Marichal maybe. Is that right?  
  
  Q. Was he 36 though?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. That's what somebody said. Whether that's right or not, I don't know.   
  
  Q. Stevie Williams had never heard of Willie Mays.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I was with him. I heard that conversation. Baseball isn't his thing, which is fine.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about not wanting to put pressure on yourself?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's great. Everybody is waiting for the bell to ring tomorrow and we have had a good time. Intensity will go up tomorrow and we will be a little more focused. We are looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q. When the bell rings --  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it will be fun. We played together a couple of years ago in fourball, as opposed to foursomes. But we played together today and fourball yesterday and a little alternate-shot this morning. So we are ready. He's playing well. I feel like I'm playing okay. Just alternate-shot comes down to taking advantage of your opportunities and limiting your mistakes. You know, if one guy gets going bad, the other guy -- (inaudible) -- we have very similar games and know each other's games and it's going to come down to making putts and being smart.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about getting a chance for Michael to be part of the team?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it's cool. It's great. Michael has been wonderful. I got to play with him Monday and he had a great time. He was great. We got to bounce a lot of stuff off of him. He didn't hold back. He answered truthfully and told us what he thought, and it was pretty interesting to pick the brain of probably maybe the best competitor of the last 50 years in all of sports maybe. Depending on how you look at that stuff.   
 But great guy, and just fun to be around, good to be around, and I've got a feeling when he speaks, if he speaks, the guys will listen. But he's good.   
  
  Q. Talk about trash talking, seems like there's a lot of track talking among you guys.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I'm not very good at it. I'm more of a -- I've always tried to let my gloves or my paddle talk. I don't know if that's a lack of self confidence or just being too nice. It comes out a bit more in a situation like this, but it's friendly. It's nothing mean-spirited. But it's fun to listen to and we got some pretty good ones.   
  
  Q. Pairings are out, you're playing with Stewart, you have to be pretty excited about going tomorrow.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: We are excited. I think we are third up and obviously Stewart is one of my greatest friends on TOUR. Played yesterday and played some alternate shot this morning and both playing well. We both hit it in the fairway a good bit and we still have to figure out the greens. They are tough to read but I think we both found out a few things this afternoon, so we are getting ready.   
  
  Q. This course is pretty strategic, one guy will hit it on all par 5s off the tee, you'll split the par 3s and somebody will tee off on a lot of par 4s?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: We didn't over think anything. We just looked at it as where certain things fell and where certain things didn't. Neither one of us was uncomfortable on any hole and neither one of us was more comfortable on any hole. We just felt like he'll take these and I'll take those and that was it. We didn't over think too much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT