THE BARCLAYS
August 26, 2009
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on the course in general?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's in perfect shape. Kind of intimidating scenery. But it's in great shape.  
  
  Q. Is there a big adjustment period for a course that has never hosted anything before?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't think so. I think everybody got a fair amount of practice rounds. I mean, there won't be any of the lasting experience like some guys would have at Augusta, they say the experience there is everything, da-da-da. Nobody will have much to fall back on the when the bell rings tomorrow, but everybody is playing the same course.  
  
  Q. What kind of game does this favor do you think?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Don't know. I don't know. I think a lot of it will depend on the wind. We get an odd wind, those long holes can be very tough so you have to hit it long and straight. But the way the greens are, you have to be pretty precise with your irons it to get it close. If you cut from 40 feet all day, you're going to have some tough slopes and two-putts, so that just depends.  
  
  Q. You say "the way the greens are," how are the greens?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: They have a lot of undulations and pockets, so you are not able to get your ball close you're going to have tough putts. That can wear on you and just makes it tough. So if the wind blows, it will be hard to get the ball close and it will play tough.  
  
  Q. Spending a lot of time in this area, does it almost feel like a home game for you?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: A little bit. A little bit. I've gotten to know some people up here and having dinner with some friends tonight. I know my way around a little bit. I wouldn't say I'm a cab driver yet, though. (Laughter).  
 A little bit, but it's fun. I've got friends and my wife and I enjoy it up here, so it's great.  
  
  Q. Are you staying in Manhattan?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I am, I'm staying there, went to the ballgame last night and I've got a dinner in midtown tonight. So have a good time.  
  
  Q. Are you commuting by boat?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I took the boat ride this morning. It was fun. I drove out yesterday because I left before the boat was scheduled to leave, but I'm going to take it back, so pretty cool.  
  
  Q. Is that the first time you've ever done that to a tournament?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Absolutely; hop on a boat, go play, what? But it's a nice perk to be able to stay over there and have fun and still be able to get here in 15 minutes isn't a bad gig.  
  
  Q. Are you recognized a lot as the U.S. Open Champion?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: No.   
  
  Q. Do you move around anonymously?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Absolutely. (Laughter) I've got the same outfit on today, so I'll keep wearing that. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Do you think the FedExCup over the next four weeks or so, how that will shape, who wins Player of the Year, do you think it could, and if so, how?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I haven't thought about it. Yeah, sure, it could. If Tiger wins, I think it makes it obvious. Somebody that won a major wins, it might throw a wrench in some people's minds.   
  
  Q. Maybe four?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I would think. But Tiger's won five times, pretty impressive. But a major and then the whole FedExCup, which means you probably won another tournament, you probably played well in Atlanta, like you said, maybe two. Possibly. I can't say for sure. But you would have to think it would be a possibility, yes.  
  
  Q. Didn't you throw out the first pitch last night?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I did.   
  
  Q. How was it?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I was shaking like a dog.   
  
  Q. Did you reach on the fly?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Everybody asked me that. I'm not going to bounce it in. I was going to throw it in the seats before I bounced it in. (Laughter).  
 I threw a nice pitch. Might have been a touch inside for a righty, belt-high, I was happy. I practiced on the golf course yesterday with golf balls.   
  
  Q. Who caught it?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Posada. Actually took the field first, National Anthem, Joba was on the mound, laughing at me. That was one of the coolest things I've ever gotten to do.   
  
  Q. What did they say to you?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I didn't get a chance to speak to Joba; he said, "No, you've got it." They introduced me to Girardi, and Johnny Damon came up and said congratulations. He's a big golfer obviously. Just, hey, good luck, where are you guys playing, across the river, Liberty. It was cool. Everybody was very nice.   
  
  Q. Had any of them played here?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Nobody that I asked. Heard about it, seen it, but haven't played it.   
  
  Q. How long did it take you to get over everything that goes with winning the U.S. Open, all of the excitement, the energy, all that stuff, when did you feel like you again?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Tomorrow? (Chuckling) No, it took a little while. It took a couple of weeks. I think when I had a couple of weeks off after Turnberry, the British, I got to sit down at home and just reflect on the last four or five weeks. Just kind of hang out and rest and you know, after obviously another major and Stewart won and he was the new flavor. So I think that had a little to do with it, too. Two weeks off kind of made everything set in. Then it was Stewart's turn.   
  
  Q. Is G-Lover the best name on TOUR?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: No chance. No chance. I think you have to actually like your nickname. (Laughter).  
 But there's some good ones.   
  
  Q. Do your peers look at you differently do you think?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I don't know. I hope not. I hope they say good, happened to a nice guy, whatever. I don't want somebody to be nice or like me because I won a golf tournament.  
  
  Q. You've been in contention since a couple of times; do you feel differently now?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I'm more comfortable out there. I was very comfortable at the PGA. I just didn't make putts. After the start I got off to, I felt like looking back on it, I felt like if I had putted well, I could have been there at the end. Whether you do it or not, you know, that's a different deal.   
 But I'm much more comfortable. I think that's a lot because first and foremost, Charlotte, because I played well that Sunday and didn't win, at Quail, and then at the Open, I got it done under pressure. It's comforting when you had not done it that much.   
 And then when you get back there, you kind of rely on that feeling, how you did, and so yeah, just more comfortable.   
  
  Q. What are your expectations on The Presidents Cup, do you feel like you've got something to prove between now and whenever the pick is, I think after Boston?  
 MARK WILLIAMS: September 8.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I just want to play well, like always. Like after 2006 when I shot myself in the foot for Ryder Cup, I was just going to play golf for me and not whoever the captain is. That's still the mantra this week and next week. Just get it done.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT