WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2009
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Lucas Glover to the Media Center.  
 Lucas is currently No. 5 in the Fed Ex Cup standings. He's less than 300 points behind the No. 4 spot. This is his 6th appearance at the Wyndham Championship and he's got 4 Top 20s in his previous five appearances here.   
 Lucas, you just got off the course. Talk a little bit about the course and your thoughts coming into this week.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. The golf course is good. It's tight. You miss your fairways you're going to have your hands tied because the rough is three inches of bermuda sinking down to the bottom.   
 We're going to have to drive it in the fairway. Greens are soft but good. They're smooth, just soft as summer in the South so you come to expect that. But, overall, the golf course is great. It's in good shape. Wyndham will be thrilled with the condition of the course.  
 MARK STEVENS: Questions.  
  
  Q. You're in the midst of a pretty long stretch. You had another long stretch earlier this year. How do you pace yourself and do you read more books, take more time off?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: You just got to build in days off. I was lucky enough to get home Sunday night from Minneapolis. I took Monday and Tuesday off. Drove up here yesterday afternoon. Take Monday off after this.  
 Then long week at Boston before we start. So I'll take Monday, maybe half of Tuesday off there. Just trying to build in some time off.   
 This is three weeks of six so, you know, I'll put in a good day today, this afternoon, because I'm late tomorrow. I'll get some sleep in the morning.   
 I'll put in a good afternoon today but just trying to build in some time off for myself and just -- you know, I think that's the best way I found to handle it.   
 You know, if you can afford to do it, playing well and just take a half day or few hours where you usually be beating balls on the first week out, something like that, just trying to build in some time for some down time and just taking it easy.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about your first year or two on the Tour? Were you a little bit more motivated and energetic to play a little bit more tournaments as opposed to being a little more selective now?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Other than last year when I took all the fall off I've been pretty consistent with the number I played. It's probably between 28 and 31.   
 Last year I took all the fall off. It was different. It will probably be about the same this year. Going forward, you know, I'm not 24 anymore so I'll -- I've got some that I'll probably take off next year, just from a scheduling standpoint because I know where I'm going to be.  
 That being said, it's kind of where they fall, not the course or what the sponsor is or anything like that, just kind of where they fall and if I want to play into a big tournament or take a week off or something like that.  
 But my first couple of years I had to play. I had to play where I got in because I was in the reshuffle. I was fortunate enough to get in a fair amount those first couple years. Played when I could.  
  
  Q. This is sort of a home course for you. How much has this course changed since you first played it when you were a kid in?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: A lot. Last year was the first time I've been up in a while and then they redid the course. Lot of the lines off the tees are similar but the green complexes are a lot different than what I remember.  
 There's more the roll-offs into the chipping areas but I think it's good for the style of course that it is. It's an old school place. It's got that feel but it's good. I like it.  
 I like that you got to control the distance of your ball or you're going to have a tough chip, short side yourself or something like that.   
 Couple that with the rough, where you want to control your ball out of it, it's either going to fly or come out soft, you'll never know, so -- as soft as is and as good a shape as the course is, it's a good defense for it because the greens aren't overly fast.   
 You're not in the fairway you can't get to some of the portions of the green where the holes are going to be. I think you'll see a trend this week of the guys that are playing well on Sunday hit a lot of fairways because it's going to be hard to make birdies out of the rough.  
  
  Q. Lucas, how many relatives, friends, are up from around Greenville and how many -- does that kind of relax you or put pressure on you with so many friends and relatives around you?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's no more pressure really because I'm used to it. We got a lot of tournaments close to where I live so -- I think I'm right about 50 tickets from Mark Brazil right now and he's being very nice about it, thankfully, but, you know, it's good. Hilton Head, here, Charlotte, used to be Atlanta, I had a lot of friends and family that came and it's encouraging.  
 You know, I don't think it's anymore pressure. I think it's just a little bit of home field like another sport.  
 MARK STEVENS: Any other questions?  
  
  Q. Lucas, has a younger player come out to you and said how should I pace myself my first year out or what would you tell somebody who is starting out on Tour?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Nobody, really, in particular, but not -- not that I recall, anyhow. It's a tough situation because you're coming off the Nationwide or in the Q-School you're in the reshuffle. So, you know, those guys that are in the middle of the reshuffle shuffle have to play when you can. If you're Top-5, you can pick and choose.  
 There's a lots of variables that go into that question and the answer. It just depends where you stand in the shuffle or, you know, if you're a young player that won one won, then you got a choice.   
 There's three, four different situations there for a young kid or a young player, but you got to know your limitations. I think I played 10 out of 11 my first year. That was tough.   
 But, you know, you learn, you figure it out. As you get older you realize your body can't take it and -- or it can. One of the two. Just figure yourself out.  
  
  Q. Lucas, what about the Presidents Cup? Are you focused on that that much or if it happens, it happens? How much of an honor would that be to make it?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's a goal. Being from the U.S., we're lucky enough to have a team each year. That's a goal of mine. Because I think it's number one, I think it's a great honor to represent your country and, two, I think it means you have a pretty good year or pretty good couple years.   
 So, yeah, I think about it and I got a few weeks to prove myself. I think I've done pretty good job so far the last couple months but, you know, we got a few weeks where we've got to keep playing hard. The goal is to win golf tournaments but in the back of my mind at the same time it's, you know, going to play well for that as well.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about the FedExCup and the way the point system is? Do you think it's better this year?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I have no idea. That's the first question I've had all year about the FedExCup. Seriously.  
  
  Q. Really?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. I don't know. I have no idea. I don't know how it works. I looked at it for the first time the other day to see where I stood.  
  
  Q. You're in.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: What's that?  
  
  Q. You're in.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I guess I should commit. Really? I'm just kidding. I was trying to figure out about Atlanta and there's no way to do it because they reset the points. I don't know.   
 It's too much for me to figure out and try to do the math. You know, it creates a stir and the public likes it, it's a good thing. If it doesn't, then might have to redo again.   
  
  Q. Does it hurt the FedExCup that every year they continue to massage it and every new year you have to try and learn something new if you want to learn it?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I haven't seen the models or anything but, you know, it's hard to have playoffs in golf. It's not going to be a true form.   
 But to get to it where they want it, they have to adjust and last year we had some issues, the first year we had some issues. It's just a hard -- it's a hard label to live up to, playoffs and golf.  
 It has to be tweaked. Whether it's helped or hurt, I couldn't say because I hadn't seen the TV ratings or anything like that, but, you know, I think it will be interesting to see this year the difference in last year and, you know, again, hard for me to say but it's an interesting -- it could be an interesting thing to see and look at because of the different -- all the different stuff we did each year.   
 First year we had a lot of stuff going on -- first year we didn't have a lot of movement, second year we had a lot. This year we're supposed to have a lot towards the end. I don't know. I hope it does -- I hope it works because it's a cool thing but it's just a little difficult to follow.  
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Thank you Lucas and good luck this weekend.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: All right.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT