THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2019
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Anything under par at the PGA National is a good score.  Are you pleased with a 1-under par 69?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, absolutely.  You said it best.  I didn't have -- I wasn't firing on all cylinders like I was yesterday, but fought hard and kept it under par and can't be too upset with 1-under around here, to be honest.  Wind picked up a little towards the end, and like I said, I didn't hit it great, but got myself into the thing.
Q. Ball-striking always good, you scrambled well today.  You haven't missed a putt, 27 for 27 inside five feet.  That putting stroke is really good.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I did a lot of work last week, and it feels good.  I made a couple of minor adjustments, and it feels good.  Confidence is there, and just got to keep going what I'm doing because I know it's right.
Q. How would you describe that pre-putt routine where you kind of lock in that forward press and then you pull the trigger quick?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, no, it's just a way to get the shaft lean up there and just try to keep it there.  After that it's just rock the shoulders and got my eyes on top of it now and seems to be better.
Q. It's getting humid out here, and you don't wear a glove.  Fred Couples never wore a glove.  Does it ever get slippery?
LUCAS GLOVER: No, I use some pretty thick cord on my grips, and we keep them pretty clean and tacky.  I like them when they get a little old because they get stickier.  Not too bad, and I live here, so I'm used to it.
Q. 1-under today, just get some quick comments on your round.
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I'd call it okay.  I didn't have it all like I did yesterday ball-striking wise, but didn't do anything to hurt myself.  It was good.  You know, anything under par around here is pretty good and not too upset.  Wind picked up a little bit late, and I did what I needed to do, and I putted well, just didn't make much.
Q. Your form seems pretty good of late.  Can you speak to what you've been working on and where your feel your game is at?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it's just one of those things, working on what I know is right instead of trying to make up something to fix.  Just trying to keep working on the same stuff because I know the fall proved to me that it was right, and just tweaks here and there.  So it's been good.
Q. Was there a change in approach then?  Had you gotten away from that?
LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, a little bit, tinkering a little too much and trying to be too perfect.  It was more of here's what I want to do and here's how I know to do it, and let's just keep working on that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT