PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2009
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Generally happy? 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Generally? 

 Q. With the overview of the day. 
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. I felt like I left a few out there. But I think everybody will say that that bogeyed the last hole. But I played well. Just defense wasn't as good as my offense. So I'll have to tone it down a little bit tomorrow. But 10 birdies in two rounds I'll take. I have to pick my spots better and play safer on some of the holes.

 Q. What do you expect from scoring conditions, Lucas, if the wind stays or even increases here?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think everybody practiced in it. So I don't think it will do too much -- I think it will be similar to yesterday. Obviously they've already seen a few good scores this morning. There will be some this afternoon. That's normally the case in any tournament, really. Softer greens this morning. A little smoother. Wind didn't kick up -- we played pretty tough wind about 10, 11 holes. Other than that, it was pretty perfect starting out.

 Q. What do you think of 14 today, Lucas?
 LUCAS GLOVER: 14? I think it's great. 

 Q. What was the yardage to the hole to your target?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think it was right at 300. I think it was 300 on the dot, if I remember correct. 

 Q. Is there a legitimate option off the tee or is everyone just going for it?
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's 5, 6-iron. Hit the fairway. Not too bad. A wedge shot or drive it up there.

 Q. You won a U.S. Open that way, didn't you?
 LUCAS GLOVER: I probably should have done it today -- no, I made birdie, so I'll take it.

 Q. Everyone in your group go for it?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, on a 3-wood. I think we had two birdies and a par. It's cool. It's fun.

 Q. Where did you hit your tee shot?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Front left bunker.

 Q. Is that a good place on that hole?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Okay, I would say. I hit a good shot at 10 feet. And Angel hit it about 12 feet and we both made them. I wouldn't say it's the greatest place in the world but it's serviceable.

 Q. Where is the wind coming?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Down out of the left. So I think if it continues to increase, I think some guys will get there with 3-wood.

 Q. As a guy that just won a golf tournament a month ago, two months ago where par is meaningful, would you like to see it stay really, really, really, really hard where shooting 69 does something for you?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Sure. It's a major.

 Q. 4-under at the other one?
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it's supposed to be tough. It's supposed to be difficult. But I've played my best golf this year on hard golf courses. And just driving it good and putting well. So I hate to say it's fine with me because you never know what's going to happen in the next two days, but sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT