PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2009
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KELLY ELBIN: Reigning U.S. Open champion, Lucas Glover, joining us in the second round of the 87th PGA Championship. Lucas is in with a 70, five birdies on the day, looked like a solid round all together.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it was a good day. I played pretty solid all day. Just ten birdies for the week, very pleased with that. Just got to work on the others a little bit.   
 KELLY ELBIN: Any changes, any differences in the golf course today from yesterday?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Not a lot. I thought the greens might have been a little more receptive this morning, and it's getting pretty windy. We had seven or eight pretty good holes and it blew pretty good the last 10 or 11.  
  
  Q. How cool was it to play in the group that all major champions play in every year for the first time?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it was great. It was good. Stewart and Angel and I play a lot together, so pretty good buddies. We had fun and goofed off a little bit, and it was a good time.   
  
  Q. How much is this beginning to feel like Bethpage after two rounds? Can you talk about your emotions here? Are you feeling about the same? Is it different feelings for you? Where exactly are you compared to where you were at Bethpage?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I'd say pretty similar. Just trying to get -- just trying to get into contention for the last round.   
 You know, I think the leaders yesterday are just starting, so who knows where I'll sit at the end of the day. But, you know, pretty similar mind-set, just put myself in a good position and see what happens.   
  
  Q. To stay on that subject a little bit, what did you gain in terms of confidence or whatever at Bethpage?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Just a sense that I could do it. You know, pretty high pressure that week and I performed, and that was very comforting. Just gives you a little bit of a confidence boost, you know, that I performed under the gun, and that's a good feeling.   
  
  Q. At Turnberry you said it felt a little bit different coming to a major after winning a major. Now that you have that experience under your belt, what's it like being at this major after a couple of majors, after having won one, two majors ago?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, it's definitely different. I got to play with the other two major winners this year. You know, you get people clapping for you when you walk up to the green instead of yelling at you; that's different.   
 You know, same game, just trying to get back in the hunt.   
  
  Q. Since you got to take a couple of weeks off, or at least get a little bit of a break for the first time after winning at Bethpage, do you feel like you come in here with a little more energy than maybe you went to Turnberry, and that this is really like your first real crack, fresh, at a major since you won one?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I mean, I played some good golf after Bethpage being a little tired. That wasn't an excuse for Turnberry.   
 I had a pretty good week last week. I didn't play great on Sunday. I've hit it in the fairway this week for the most part. I didn't do that at Turnberry and made a pile of doubles there. I had not made a big number here yet, but just I think a little more confidence. I had a good few days of practice and started hitting the ball pretty good yesterday, and that was the difference I think.   
 KELLY ELBIN: For the record, Lucas' best finish since the U.S. Open was a tied for fifth at the AT&T National at Congressional.   
  
  Q. How important would it be for you to win here to validate your first major victory?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think winning any tournament is important. I don't think -- I don't think I have to validate anything. I've been out here six years and had a pretty good career. Just be nice to win another one. I'm not looking to prove anything to anybody else.   
  
  Q. Sergio was in here the other day talking about when he got close in '99, he was so young, trying to rediscover that youthful exuberance and the fact that he didn't really sort of know where he was, he didn't worry about how big it was and he didn't really realize how big of a moment. Is there something to the fact that if you break through as early as you did -- I know it didn't seem early for you -- without having a lot of scar tissue that maybe you can go out and pile them up more than if you stay out here forever and takes you forever to break through?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know, I had not thought about that. Good idea. That was the first time I ever made a cut at the U.S. Open, and I've only been in contention one other time at a major. So I mean, possibly. I can't say because I don't know.   
 But possibly, yeah.   
  
  Q. Is there something since the U.S. Open, is there something you've done or haven't done or some advice you've gotten that's enabled you to play well again in this major tournament?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, somebody said, you wasn't playing like you, why change? That's true. I wasn't playing the way I play. You don't have to change anything to do it again. So, you know, I've just been working on the same stuff.   
  
  Q. Stewart was saying that you have always been one of the best Tuesday players out there. He's played with you before on Tuesday, you make seven or eight birdies and you play relaxed, and he said it finally looks like that has translated Thursday through Sunday. You look like the same guy now on the weekend that you did early in the week. When did that change? When did that click, if you will?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: You know, I can't say. I do know that just trying to play like it is Tuesday or play like I'm home or playing with my buddies, because I do play better that way, and it's been a conscious effort just to, hey, relax, it's really not that big a deal. Let's just go play golf.   
 You know, I'm just trying to feel like I did early in the week, playing and goofing off.   
  
  Q. I was just wondering, you mentioned there was some banter between you and the other guys. When Stewart made his double to start out yesterday, did you look at him and say, "Hey, I won the U.S. Open like that"?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: No, I don't think my shoulder would have felt good after I said that to him. I was thinking it to be honest with you. (Laughter) I said, "I wonder if I should say that." No, I stayed away from him for a few holes after that.   
  
  Q. Talking with Stewart afterwards, he said it was kind of neat for the two of you who have played together so many times and now you get back together, but both of you; neither of you have changed, he said, but your lives have changed significantly because of what both of you have accomplished. What was that conversation like between the two of you, and is it kind of neat to be able to share that with somebody that you're friends with?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, you know, we joked around last week about how busy both of us have been and how different it is and all that. But you know, it was pretty evident right away that neither of us is any different. We still goof off and make fun of each other and pick at each other.   
 So you know, there's no point in doing anything different.   
  
  Q. You mentioned that you're playing more relaxed now during the tournaments. Is there something you've done or are doing, or somebody you're seeing or somebody who is helping you do that, or this is all just you and your own mind?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, I've been working with sports psychologist, Dr. Morris Pickens, for years, and he's always said, you know, it's really not that big a deal. You know, it took a little while for that to get through my thick skull.   
 But you know, it's just something he and I have worked on and maybe finally took hold. But nothing -- nothing in particular that, sorry, you've got to do this before you play to be relaxed. I'm not doing any deep breathing or anything like that. Maybe just not taking things so seriously, a bad shot or a lipout or anything like that.   
  
  Q. Talk a little about the golf course, what you might expect now, we're halfway through; is it going to be more difficult, or are you adjusting to it better? What can you tell us?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think if the wind stays up, it's only going to get tougher. It's already pretty tough out there, because it's hard to get the ball close a lot of times, because when we are hitting a lot of long irons, the wedge holes, for instance, the par 5s are in the corners and stuff like that. But if the wind stays up, the greens are going to get firmer and faster and it's just going to be harder and harder to get it close. If it gets faster, it's harder to hit the fairways. It's a give and take there.   
 But I don't think any rain is forecast; it's going to be tough.   
  
  Q. You and Zach and Davis and several others down at Sea Island, you guys starting to turn that place into the new Isleworth? Is that going to be the trendy thing for guys to move down there and try to get their majors?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know. I just visit, but I visit often. It's a great place to practice, and they take care of us down there. You know, it's a pretty special place.   
  
  Q. I think after yesterday when Tiger was leading this thing by five, everybody maybe not conceded it to him but said, okay, maybe this is his time. Would you talk about what it would be like playing with him on Sunday, and could you relate that story I believe I heard from you about playing with him at AT&T and what he said to you then?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, obviously playing with Tiger on Sunday, you're probably in a pretty good position more times than not. So I would be honored and very happy.   
 But AT&T, he just -- walking down 1, he just turned around and said, "Hey, I didn't tell you, but thanks."  
I said, "For what?"   
 He said, "For coming." That was pretty cool. He didn't have to say that, but he did. Pretty cool.   
 KELLY ELBIN: Lucas Glover in at 3-under par, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT