THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2009
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARTIN PARK: Ladies and gentlemen, we'll make a start. Lucas, welcome to Turnberry. I understand you just got here, so you haven't had a chance to get out on the course yet. Give us your thoughts on how you're doing coming into this event.  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Doing good. Just got in yesterday and practiced some yesterday afternoon. I planned on playing some, but the body felt otherwise. So just practiced and heard a lot of good things and looking forward to seeing it for the first time.   
 MARTIN PARK: The course sets up for a straight hitter, so as Harrington was saying, you have to use the driver well around here, and it's going to offer up a few birdie shots, and given your previous record at the U.S. Open last month, you've...   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, hopefully find some fairways, keep it out of the high stuff. Just like any other major or Open, you have to drive your ball well. We'll try to check it out and get a game plan going.  
  
  Q. Does a major championship course have to be brutal or really difficult to make it a good competition, or is it just set up differently?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think it's just a good test and a fair test. If it's tough, it's tough. And every Open course I've played has been very fair, but a good test. And if you get tough conditions it makes it a better test. So a lot of it depends on the weather, in my experience here.   
  
  Q. And as a follow-up, unrelated, how are you holding up after so many weeks of consecutive playing?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Good, good. I ended up with Sunday off at the Deere, so I didn't have to do the 36, so that was a nice day off.   
 And then I had a good travel day, no hiccups getting here or anything, so that made it easy.   
 But I'm good, just trying to do the stuff that put me in the position last time and that's just get well prepared and well rested at the same time.   
  
  Q. Has that helped you deal with what happened at Bethpage, the fact you being able to play, because there are a lot of distractions that come with being an Open champion?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I think so. That was some advice I got from the other guys, was the only normal thing you're going to know right now is when you get in between the ropes. So I think being able to play and keep on playing has helped.  
  
  Q. Have you noticed any difference in your life since Bethpage? Have you had a chance to savor it yet?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: The phone rings a little bit more and just a few more obligations. But nothing drastic, nothing that was unexpected. But it's been fun.  
  
  Q. This is not meant as disrespectful at all, but having come into this country probably people still don't recognise you. Do you understand that? You can probably still walk round here, and spectators think I know the face, but don't know who it is.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, I think that's the case and rightly so. That was the first big thing a couple of weeks ago. But that's fine.   
 The ones that do are very nice, and the ones that don't are asking the ones that do who that is (laughter).   
  
  Q. Do you think you'll be able to cope with the fame game, should your phone continue to ring, should you get into contention here? Are you comfortable with it?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I don't know, and I won't know unless it happens. But I think it comes with the territory and I think you learn, like anything else. You gain experience playing golf and you've gained the experience off the golf course if that happens.   
 I'm not sure. I think I've done well with it so far at home, but I'd like to find out.   
  
  Q. Many Americans have struggled to get to grips with links golf. Some of them have not enjoyed it when they first come over. What was your first impression, and have your impressions changed since then?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: My first Open was Hoylake, and I actually played that course before in college for a team event. So I actually knew that golf course a little bit. And I enjoy it; I think it's fun. You get a little bit of everything. You've got to use every club in the bag and change the ball flight and curve it. I think it's fun.   
 I haven't done super, but I've enjoyed it and I've enjoyed every course I've played and I've heard nothing but great things about here, so I'm looking forward to checking it out today.  
  
  Q. Have your expectations levels changed since what happened a couple weeks ago? Do you come into this major seeing yourself as one of the major contenders now or what do you expect from yourself this week?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I've been playing well. I had a slow couple of days at the Deere, but I played well the two weeks directly after The Open. And if I'm playing well, yeah, I think I can do well.   
 But from now on it's just getting back into contention, because that's hard enough. I feel good about how I handled myself at Bethpage, so if I get there I feel like I'll know what to do. That's the important thing now is working to get back into position.  
  
  Q. You got through four books I think it was U.S. Open week, and how many have you got this time, and what are they?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I had a nice long flight, so I finished one, but I was already about halfway through. And I think I've only got one more this week, so I've got to slow it down a little.  
  
  Q. What are they?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: The last one was Greg Iles, "The Devil's Punch Bowl." Good read, pick it up.   
  
  Q. When you see Tiger Woods out there, maybe you haven't seen him yet, but when you see him do you think, well, I'm a major winner, too; therefore I can compete with him now? Or do you still see him as way ahead of you?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I got paired with him at AT&T two weeks after. He beat my brains in for two days, so I think he's still got me.   
 MARTIN PARK: Lucas, thanks very much. Good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT