TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2009
Lucas Glover
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Two back-to-back 65s on the weekend. That's an awful nice way to finish up this tournament, isn't it?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. Yeah. I played well all week. I had a slow round on Friday, but three 65s and 71, I'm not all that upset about.   
  
  Q. What an insane week it's been for you. It's just been an absolute whirlwind. Your thoughts now that this week, the week after is over.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: It's back to playing golf. It was a great week. It was fun, and Travelers put on a great event for us.   
 It was a fun week. We had fair weather for summer, you know, but it was just a fun week. It was nice to get back in between the ropes and play some golf and pretty good golf at that.   
  
  Q. I was going to say, are you almost a little relieved to get this one out of the way, because you probably weren't quite sure exactly how it was going to go.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. I didn't know how fatigued I was going to be mentally. Physically I was fine. Last week was just first one out of the gates, but mentally it took a lot out of me. I made a couple mental errors today that I could stand to have back, but all in all, pretty good.   
  
  Q. There was a lot of "thanks for coming." Is that different for you?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. Absolutely. It was nice. Fans actually knew who I was for once. Yeah. It was a great week. The fans here in Hartford were wonderful, to say the least. Virtually every week it was thanks for coming or congratulations or just a number of things, and it was great to hear. And that's a lot of the reason I came here. Good fans, good golf course, fun event. And you know, I was coming regardless, what ever happened last week or not. But that just proved my theory of why I was coming, you know, great fans, good course, good event and had a good time.   
  
  Q. Can you do a quick synopsis of your week after Monday?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Monday night, I went into the city and had a little celebration and kind of got regrouped for Tuesday, knew it was going to be a long day and a busy day. And Tuesday was "Regis in the Morning," radio show, radio show, CNBC, radio show, radio show, radio show, radio show and then "Letterman," and then had dinner and came up here with my wife and some friends.   
  
  Q. Tuesday night?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. Got in here Tuesday night about 9:30, and I think I was asleep at 9:40.   
 Then Wednesday, Nathan was nice enough to put me in the Pro-Am. I had a late tee time Wednesday. No, really he had to put me in. I wasn't in otherwise. That was a big help, so I could get a practice round.  
 So I had a late tee time, so I got to sleep in late Wednesday and Thursday, which was nice. I needed it. And it was just golf after that.   
  
  Q. Normally what would you have done?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Finishing on a Monday, I would have gotten to the next event Monday night, played early Tuesday morning, 50/50 on the Pro-Am Wednesday, and when Thursday morning rolled around it was a normal week. It was status quo. It was just play golf and go through my routine, and it was fun. It was a good week.   
  
  Q. How many books did you read this week?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: None.   
  
  Q. So there's the first change in the life-styles of the U.S. Open champion.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: No. I wasn't as hyper. I wasn't as hyper in the evenings. I was a little more ready for sleep. That's usually my problem. I don't get to sleep very quick.  
  
  Q. Did Jack give you some words on being a Major champion?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah. I picked his brain a little bit coming down 16. The pace slowed down a little bit coming down the stretch and we had some time to chat. Jack and I are great friends, and yeah, I picked his brain a little bit, but I'd like to keep it to myself, if that's okay.   
  
  Q. No. That's fine. But it's different from --  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, it is. He told me a couple of good pointers and some good advice.   
  
  Q. Normally a couple other champions walk a little taller after doing something like that. Did you walk a little taller, have a little more confidence?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: Well, confidence comes with success. That's in any sport or anything, your business, whatever. It was fun to come into a week with some momentum, and you know, that was -- Thursday morning I had some good vibes, so yeah?  
  
  Q. Were you surprised with three 65s.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: No. I played well last week. I hit the ball great. I had that kind of hiccup round on Friday, but I played well. I played pretty similar to how I did last week, just had three out of four rounds instead of four out of four. I hit the ball well and made some putts. I wish I'd have driven it a little better Friday and Saturday. I think the scores would have been a lot better, but played well. I'm happy.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT