NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: CAPITALS vs LIGHTNING
May 22, 2018
Matt Niskanen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Probably be the biggest games of your lives.  
MATT NISKANEN: Heck of an opportunity.  We're one game from the big dance.  Ready to go.   
 Q.  You have talked about how this team is different, how well you've handled adversity.  With Coach Trotz, how has he evolved over the last couple years, how critical has he been helping you through things this year?  
MATT NISKANEN: We've been through it together.  This is the best he's done, as well, so far.  He's hungry for the same thing we are.   
I think the players that have been here, for sure, and he have gotten to know each other well, know what's expected out of the group.  We're all in it together.   
 Q.  After the season ended last year, a couple guys said they wondered if there was a mental block for this team getting past the second round.  When do you feel like this team didn't have that issue?  
MATT NISKANEN: Sometime in the Pittsburgh series.  I can't tell you the exact moment or why it happened, but something felt different about it.  I just think our ability to respond, our ability to stay with it, is so much better this spring.  We just play.  We play the game hard.  A bounce or good saves from the other team's goalie, we just keep coming.  That's how we've played this series so far, yeah.   
 Q.  How much did you think about the Game 7 last year?  
MATT NISKANEN: You're talking about the Pittsburgh series last year?   
 Q.  Yes.  
MATT NISKANEN: We came out like a bat out of hell for the first five, six minutes.  Could have popped a couple there probably, but...   
That's a different group.  It's going to be important for a fast start tomorrow, I think, have a really good first period.  It's been pretty evident that scoring the first goal is beneficial.  We'll be excited and ready to go, bring our best game.   
 Q.  This is a big opportunity for everyone, but for Alex Ovechkin, has been the butt of playoff jokes.  What do you think this opportunity means to him?  
MATT NISKANEN: Yeah, I don't know if outside stuff matters to him or not.  Man, is it a team sport.  You get to this level and you realize how every little play matters.  It's not going to be your top guy every time.  Little plays matter.  It's amazing how role players can change a game by a big play, a big moment.  It's a team sport.   
The past is what it is.  Alex has been playing hard, really hard.  Game 6 is one of the better ones I've seen him play.  He was a machine out there, knocking people around, had the puck a lot, was dangerous, was hard to handle.  We'll try to bring those same type of efforts tomorrow.   
 Q.  You had your way with them physically the first two games in the series.  You took it to another level last night.  Do you hope that physicality in a Game 7, you will have worn them down?  
MATT NISKANEN: Yeah, sure.  It's an investment over the course of the series to have an effect on their top guys, their defense in particular, how they want to play.  But they're going to have a higher level of desperation than they did last night probably.  It's Game 7.  Nobody's going to be holding anything back.   
We're going to have to bring it again.  Being physical is a part of that.  I really liked how we were just in their face.  Even if it wasn't a hit, we were close spaced really well, didn't give them room to operate.  That's how we need to play.   
 Q.  When the Beagle line is getting secondary scoring, how much of a lift is that?  
MATT NISKANEN: Huge lift.  Not always expected, but they had a great game last night.  Especially the couple kills that we had, extra hustle plays, second effort stuff that keep plays alive in the offensive zone.  They contributed a goal.  Gave up some shots maybe in their own zone, but kept everything to the perimeter.  Little stuff like that matters.  It's amazing just how important getting the puck an extra four feet to get over a blueline, over a redline, how much that matters.   
You need everybody contributing within their role.  I'm sure everybody is excited to bring their best tomorrow.   
 Q.  How much does Tampa's last change factor into how you approach a game, matchups?  
MATT NISKANEN: It's probably more for the coaches to worry about.  When the coach taps you on the shoulder, you're just going out there and playing.  I'm sure we'll try to get a few matchups here and there when we can.  It's not always possible when they have the last change.  You just got to play the game.   
It sure doesn't seem like home ice matters a whole lot these playoffs.  We'll just play the game.  The one thing with matchups is the road team almost controls the flow of the game if the other team is matching.  You get to throw the line out first, so you control the tempo, who you want to have on the ice.  That's one way to spin it.   
 Q.  Is there any gratification getting to this point, people didn't think you'd make a deep playoff run?  
MATT NISKANEN: Yeah.  Actually I said to my wife, on paper we're not as good this year, but watch, this will be the year that we do something.  Just the way it works.  Hockey is a funny sport.  That just proves how names on a piece of paper don't win.  It's how guys play together, how hard you play.  A lot of things got to go right.  You got to score, get big saves.  You need a bounce here or there.   
But we're right here, one step away from getting in the dance, like I said.  Guys are excited for the opportunity.   
 Q.  From your past experience, what is the most important thing to remember about a Game 7 and what is the most important to forget?  
MATT NISKANEN: I think it's important to play with controlled emotion.  I think you have to bring it.  You can't save it for one second.  But you have to be in control.  You can't take penalties.  You can't be overzealous with the puck.  You have to make smart plays.  You have to bring a lot of energy in the right areas.  You still have to have confidence to make plays when they're there, confidence to skate the puck rather than just throw it.   
It's going to come down to will and execution.  I'm sure we're going to be excited.  The challenge for us is going to be staying confident with the puck, execute your jobs, make your plays when they're there, go after them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT