PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2017
Grayson Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 3-over through six.  You obviously turned that round around pretty well.  What were you thinking and how did you do that?
GRAYSON MURRAY: The first six holes were very tough.  Obviously, I didn't want to play them 3-over.
7 was a key birdie for me.  Then when I put one in on 9.  That kind of got the round turned around a little bit and made a putt -- made an easy birdie on 10.
I just hung in there all day.  This is such a tough course.  After that start I didn't know if I was going to -- I was just kind of keeping it under control.  I was just trying to salvage what I could.  I thought if I got it back to even par for the day that would have been really great.  Luckily, I made a few key putts.
I chipped in on the back nine, made that eagle putt on 15.  So that really kind of put the stamp on the round.
Q. Is it possible to have a low round out there tomorrow, whether it's you or somebody else, to avoid those mistakes?
GRAYSON MURRAY: You are going to have to play a perfect round of golf.  It's like a British Open, Sunday, Phil Mickelson kind of round.  That's what it's going to have to be for me to win.
There's too many really good players in front of me that have been there.  I don't know if they've won, but they have been in that type of pressure before and they can handle it.  So I'm going to go out there and keep doing what I'm doing and hopefully limit the mistakes.  But it's going to take a really special round for me to win this thing.
Q. Is it good to be the hunter as opposed to the hunted where you can be aggressive?
GRAYSON MURRAY: No.  I would rather be in the lead.  This course, like I said, is so tough.  I mean, it would be one thing if you could go out there and shoot 61 or 62.  That's not the case out here.  You play really well and you might shoot 65.  Like I said there's too many good players in front of me.  It's got to be a special round for me to even have a chance.
I like the position I'm going into tomorrow.  If I shoot a good score and jump up the leaderboard, my first major, I definitely won't be disappointed.
Q. You would take 65 tomorrow?
GRAYSON MURRAY: You can give me a 65 right now and I will drive right home.
Q. Are you able to have fun out there with how difficult this course is playing?
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah.  I don't like making mistakes and bogeying holes, but it's fun.  I'm playing in a major in my home state at 23 years old.  I can't really complain.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT