CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 20, 2018
Grayson Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'll let you tell me about the course conditions and the wind out there today, but how impressed are you by a 5-under?
GRAYSON MURRAY: I played pretty solid.  I was a little loose with some swings, but my putter's kept me kind of going and, yeah, any time you can go around any course 5-under usually you don't lose too many strokes to the field.  So, yeah, definitely played tougher today than the last two days, even though we were on different courses, just with the wind, but there's still low scores out there just got to keep going.
Q. Was it windy through the morning, all day, did it kind of come and go?
GRAYSON MURRAY: No, it was pretty much all day.  It let down every now and then, but, yeah, no, it was kind of tough to judge some of the crosswinds.  Felt like I hit a couple shots where I felt they would be pin high and they ended up 10 yards short, which kind of led to bogeys.  But other than that, caddie and I played it pretty good.
Q. You took advantage of the par-5s today.  How crucial was that and tell me about how you played those?
GRAYSON MURRAY: It's crucial every week if you want to win, have a chance to win, you got to take care of the par-5s.  Obviously there's 16 this week, so if you play them anywhere 10- or 10-under or better, you're going to have a chance.  So same mindset that I had the first day going into tomorrow at the Stadium Course, I know I can play good there, so see what happens.
Q. Anything special about those two birdies in the last three holes that kind of made your round?
GRAYSON MURRAY: I made two bogeys today and I came back with birdie on the next hole on each of them.  I don't like making bogeys, I have kind of a short memory when it comes to making bogeys where I just want to get rid of them as quickly as I can.  So I used that as fuel after I made my second bogey to birdie those two coming in, which was nice.
Q. Heading into tomorrow you're in the mix, first page of the leaderboard, how much confidence do you draw off the fact that you shot 65 on the Stadium on Thursday?
GRAYSON MURRAY: Definitely draw confidence and confidence knowing that I've won before out here.  I know there's a couple guys in front of me that have won too, so it's just going to come down to who can hit it in the fairway and who can make a few putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT