CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 18, 2018
Grayson Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brilliant round of 65 on the most difficult course here, the Stadium, given that it is the most difficult course, what was the mindset teeing off?
GRAYSON MURRAY: I played here last year so I had a pretty good feel for the course.  No wind today, so it was gettable, for sure.  I hit some fairways, which is always nice around this place, and I got off to a good start and just kind of kept the momentum going.
Q. 16, the par-5, you're in the deep bunker on the left-hand side in two.  Can you explain the bunker shot and also the access to the bunker?
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah, my caddie had told me just to slide down and I was like, no way, dude.  And then I didn't want to walk around, so I just slid down, which was kind of fun.
Q. What about the shot itself?
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah, the bunker shot, I practiced it in the practice round, it's a tough one but I did see the top of the flag stick which made it a little easier.  And I know some people spent a little time down there, so I was lucky to get out of there.
Q. 17, obviously the signature hole here.  The tee shot, this must have looked awfully good in the air?
GRAYSON MURRAY: It did.  We were between pitching wedge and 9-iron I went with the hard pitching wedge because I just wanted to leave it below the hole and that's pretty much all I could get out of that club right there and it ended up being a perfect spot, about 15 feet below the hole and it was a left edge putt.
Q. How much are you looking forward to La Quinta tomorrow?  Jon Rahm shot 62 there, people traditionally have gone low there, do you fancy your chances of doing that again?
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah, my game's good, I don't expect to shoot 62 around there like Rahm did today, he's No. 3 in the world for a reason.  I mean, Adam Hadwin shot 59 there last year, it's definitely gettable and some of the best greens we play on all year, so I'm looking forward to getting over there and hopefully continuing the momentum.
Q. Great round today, 56, what was the key for you out there today?
GRAYSON MURRAY: I stayed pretty patient all day, I putted the ball pretty well, and that's always nice to get your putter going early on in the round to kind of set the tone for me.  I hit a lot of fairways, kind of I think my first 11, 12 holes I was kind of in the fairway, which made it easier to go for pins.  Down the stretch I hit a few, not loose shots, but just kind of caught the first cut or intermediate rough and it's kind of hard to get to the pins from those lies.  I'm pleased, especially around this course, because it definitely is the tougher of the three.
Q. You got to feel great to get that number on this golf course, particularly with the winds coming up tomorrow.  As you come into this week with three golf courses that you got to play for the tournament, how do you prepare this week?
GRAYSON MURRAY: I got here, I flew in from Maui and got here a week early, I skipped the Sony.  I played here last year and I loved this place, so I got in a good week of practice and didn't overdo it, but I needed to get some rust off from the wintertime, the off season and I think that my coach and I, caddie, we did some good work beginning of the week of this week and I was feeling really good about my swing, so now it's just trying to keep it going for the next three days.
Q. As you go tomorrow you play over at La Quinta, a little bit different golf course, what will you do between now and when you tee off tomorrow?
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah, I'm going to wind down with hitting a few shots, just work on a few different things that my coach wants me to and then I'll just go and rest.  I have a couple buddies here in town, so maybe we'll go enjoy a cold one or something, but nothing too crazy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT