DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2017
Grayson Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk about the round, and especially how tough the conditions were.
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah, you know, it was tough out there.  From the rain and the wind and pace of play, just going off both tees with threesomes, the TOUR can't do anything about it.  They were trying to get in before the weather, so kudos for them doing what they needed to do to get us done today.
You know, I was very happy, once again, to get off to kind of a good start, and got my day kind of going.  A little mad at myself for parring both par 5s on the front nine, with especially my length.  Those are holes I need to take advantage with, but just hung deep all day, made some good decisions.  Just want to eliminate the mistakes.
Q. Does a day like today test your patience as much as your game?
GRAYSON MURRAY: It does.  I don't really have the best patience of most guys out here; being 23, being young, and just want to go for everything.  But luckily I have a really good guy on the bag in Mike, and you know, his knowledge around this course and really helped me out today.
Q. Speaking of Mike, and also Josh, your instructor, what have added those pieces to your team meant to your game and how it's elevated in recent months?
GRAYSON MURRAY: It's huge.  Both much those guys have helped tremendous -- this is just the start of what could be.  Yeah, I can't thank those guys enough.
Q. What do you feel like you need to do tomorrow specifically to hoist the trophy in the end?
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah, just do the same thing I did today.  If I can get a few more putts to drop or if I can hit them a little closer, it felt like I was having to do a lot of lag putting today, which was fine under these conditions.  But tomorrow, I think we're going to have good weather and obviously major champions ahead of me are right there with me.  They are not coming back, so I'm going to have to go out there and play my A Game.
Q. You won this year, and you're a TOUR winner, but there are some guys, major champions as you mentioned.  Do you feel comfortable in that setting?
GRAYSON MURRAY: I do.  I legitimately had a chance at Quail this year in the PGA with nine holes to go.  It wasn't because I was nervous.  It just caught up with me with bad driving.
So I'm not scared of the moment.  I'm not scared to win.  Obviously I've won this year.  But you know, you have to have good breaks go your way.  You have to be patient out there, and like you said, there's major champions that I'm chasing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT