DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2017
Grayson Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just comment on the day.  It was some kind of scorecard.  You had 1 through to 6.  Talk about the highlights there.
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah, started off with a bogey and then made a really good birdie on 11.  So that kind of got me, the round kind of going, you could say.  12, I made a bogey but not really losing much on the field making bogey.
Made the turn at 1-under, which I thought was pretty solid.  That back nine can get tough with the wind directions.  And then, you know, made a silly bogey on hole 3, the par 3.  But followed that up with a birdie.  Then I made a double and I was kind of, you know, hanging my head a little bit.
But, I mean, that's just golf.  You're going to have mistakes, and luckily, I followed that double up with two birdies and the hole-in-one.  So yeah, I just have to limit my mistakes the next two days.  Can't have anymore doubles.  Bogeys are fine.  There are enough birdie holes out here, you can afford to give up a shot here and there.  But too many good players at the top; I can't really give bogeys back to the field, or doubles.
Q. How many aces have you had total and how many competitively?
GRAYSON MURRAY: I think that's eight, maybe, aces total, seven or eight.  And that is -- I had one on the Web last year, two this year.  I had one in the U.S. Amateur.  So four, maybe, competitively.  I mean, I won a car last year.  I took the cash instead of the car, but this year I haven't won anything yet, so I'm a little bummed about that.
Q. On the Web.com?
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah.
Q. What kind of car was it?
GRAYSON MURRAY: I think it was an Acura.  But I took the cash.  I already had a car.
Q. What tournament was that?
GRAYSON MURRAY: That was in Kansas City last year.
Q. Do you have to calm yourself down after making an ace?  You still had a hole to play.
GRAYSON MURRAY: Not really.  I mean, before, when I was younger, yes.  I'd go crazy.  I'd have to call everyone that I knew; like I just made a hole-in-one, you know.
But I mean, it is just an eagle.  You know, if you make eagle on a par 5, you don't really calm yourself -- I don't know.  You obviously don't want to follow it up with a bad number because then you wash out what you just did.
But I mean, when we are as good as we are out here and you hit shots at the pins, some of them are just going to go in.  You know, Kevin Tway made one yesterday, who I was playing with.  So I think Rod Pampling, who our third was, was feeling a little left out.
Q. Have you ever had one after a double?
GRAYSON MURRAY: No, I don't think so.  Yeah, there's two holes after the double -- no.
Q. Is there almost a sense of disbelief when it goes in?
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it was a good shot.  Like you've got to get lucky.  It's got to pitch right.  It's got to land soft enough and then it's got to roll in with a good speed, you know what I mean.
Q. Can you talk about being -- you don't seemed to be bothered by the pressure, doesn't seem like there's any, being kind of on the bubble this week.  Are you sort of immune to that?
GRAYSON MURRAY: I told someone yesterday, if my weekended this week, I still would have hung my head high because being a rookie on TOUR is very tough.  Having to learn new courses every week, and getting my first win, my first year out here; it would be hard to hang my head if I didn't make it to the BMW.
Obviously I'm in a good position now to maybe even make it to East Lake but first, take care of business these next two days and deal with all that later.
Q. Just talk about that a little bit.  There's a number of rookies that have won this year and you're in contention now for the Rookie of the Year race.  Just talk about what that might mean to you.
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah, I could win this week, next week and possibly East Lake and I would probably still give that Rookie of the Year award to Jon Rahm.  It's unbelievable what he's done this year.
Q. Technically he's not a rookie this year.
GRAYSON MURRAY: First-year player, though, he can win Rookie of the Year, though, right?  No?  Someone told me he was eligible.  Oh, well, sorry, Jon.  I thought he was eligible.  (Laughter).
I don't know how many rookies have won this year but obviously there's a few that have a chance to make it to East Lake.  That would be great if it happened but I'm just trying it take care of business right now and not think about the accolades that would come with making it to THE TOUR Championship or anything like that.
Q. Just describe the shot for us, the ace, what you hit.
GRAYSON MURRAY: It was 196 to the hole.  The wind was a little in off the left.  Hit a 6-iron, which is my 200 club and it was a really good swing.  Sometimes you hit these thin shots and they work out and they go in.  But this shot never left the pin, and like I said, it's lucky when it does go in.  But either way, I probably would have just had a tap-in if it didn't.  It was rolling the perfect speed.
Q. Any debate about the club?
GRAYSON MURRAY: No, it was always a 6-iron.  We both agreed -- I was thinking 7 for a second because it's 189 front edge, but with that little hurt, it was a perfect 6.
Q. Same club yesterday on that hole?
GRAYSON MURRAY: No.  The tees were up yesterday.  I hit 7-iron yesterday.
Q. Have you ever been a part of that where one guy gets an ace one day?
GRAYSON MURRAY: No, I've never seen that before.  No, I have not.  It's kind of -- it's really care.  Yeah, I mean -- no.  (Laughing).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT