DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2017
Grayson Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Grayson, nice start.  Get some comments on your round.  
GRAYSON MURRAY: Yeah, I got off to a good start.  Front nine came pretty easy to me, and then the back nine, started getting loose with some drivers and iron shots.   
But no, I mean, I hung in there and I got it -- seemed like I got it up-and-down from everywhere today on the back nine today.   
That up-and-down I had on 18, best up-and-down I've ever had in my life, with the lie and how I had to hit that shot.  It was luck.  I had to hit it into a bank and it popped up.  Everything had to go perfect, and it did.  That was a nice way to finish.  I had 7-iron to the par 5.  You walk away with five there, you kind of hang your head a little bit, but I made birdie, so it was nice.   
 Q.  How difficult is it being in that bubble group?  
GRAYSON MURRAY: I don't care.  If my season ends right now, I've had a great year.  I don't put any pressure on me.  But obviously the goal is to get to East Lake.   
 Q.  You mentioned the lie.  What did you have; and the rules official, what was that?  
GRAYSON MURRAY: I was just asking if I was part of the bunker, because the grass is inside the bunker.  But it wasn't part -- it's grass throughout.  You know, I could ground my club and all that.  I didn't -- I wanted to make sure.  And then I checked to see if it was plugged, too.  Because if it was part of the bunker, then I couldn't check and see if it was plugged.  Just making sure.   
 Q.  Didn't have much to work with?  
GRAYSON MURRAY: Me and my caddie, we were just laughing.  He was like, let's just hit it where we can get up-and-down from the next shot because I literally had nothing.  And it landed right into the slope.  Pretty cool.   
 Q.  How difficult is this back nine?  
GRAYSON MURRAY: I mean, you've got to hit it in the fairway.  I didn't hit it in the fairway on the back nine, so I couldn't have any birdie looks.  Putting for par pretty much the whole back nine.  But yeah, you know, it's a good back nine.  It's a good last few finishing holes, I should say.  16, 17, 18 are really cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT