FED CUP INTERVIEWS- USA vs. BELGIUM
July 14, 2006
Jamea Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Jamea, congratulations to be part of the American team of this Fed Cup semifinal.  Tell us about your emotions to be playing singles here.    
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Once again, I'm honored to be playing for my country, you know, for the United States.  I'm coming here trying to do the best I can, give a good showing for the States.    
  
  Q.  You were an integral part of that first-round win.  How important has that been for you carrying through on the rest of circuit?    
 JAMEA JACKSON:  I think that it was a really good start to my summer season in general.  I played really great there.  That really boosted my confidence to have some really great results overseas in the grass court season.    
  
  Q.  It's been a big start to the year for you, hasn't it?    
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Yes.  As I said, I've been improving all year.  I think I've been working really hard.  I think the results are starting to come.    
  
  Q.  You're playing the second singles on day two.  How do you feel about that?  I know you can't do anything about the draw.  How do you feel about playing second singles?    
 JAMEA JACKSON:  I'm excited.  I'm going to go out there and watch Jill and cheer her on, then go prepare myself and get ready to play and bring it.    
  
  Q.  Against Kim Clijsters.    
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Yes.  She's a great player.  I mean, obviously, I'm just going to have to fight for every point and really bring my A game to try to pull that one out for the States.    
  
  Q.  Do you think it's evened up a little bit more for the two nations with Justine Henin-Hardenne pulling out from the Belgium side?    
 JAMEA JACKSON:  We really didn't think about that at all.  Whoever we played, we were going to play.  I think with Kirsten in there, it's still going to be a very difficult match and tie, so we're going to have to really go out there and really give our best.    
  
  Q.  On day two, you'll be playing the second singles again against Kirsten Flipkens.  You played her at Wimbledon.    
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Yes, we played at Wimbledon.  I ended up winning that one in three really tough sets.  But, you know, it's a different surface, different conditions.  You know, Fed Cup I think for both of us probably holds a lot more pressure.  So it's going to be completely different.  It's going to be a whole new match.    
  
  Q.  Your mother is here with you this week.  I understand she's written quite a racy novel.  Tell us about that.    
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Yes, she has.  I have not actually read it yet.  I've heard from everybody that it's excellent.  That's kind of one of those things you really don't want to know about your parents and your parents' friends, I've got to say.  It's called 'Flying High' if anybody wants to get it.    
  
  Q.  She was telling me it's not for your eyes at this stage.    
 JAMEA JACKSON:  No, I don't think it will be for my eyes for another, you know, 10 or 15 years, you know, when I'm ready to finally accept that my parents were actually young one day.    
 Other people who are my age, I'm sure they'll love to read it, and even older people, they'll really enjoy it, so I recommend it.    
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT