NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 22, 2006
Jamea Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Terrific win.   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Thanks.   
  Q.  But you lost both your challenges.   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  I did, I was wrong.  No, the first one I thought was wide; I just wanted to try it.  I loved it.  I thought it was great.  I loved it.  It was fun.   
  Q.  What did you like about it?   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  I think it takes like a lot of the pressure off, you know.  You don't get so angry, you know, if you think a call is incorrect or, you know, whatever, and if you were wrong, then, you know, you don't spend those points or matches or, I mean, extra games really thinking about it.   
 So I thought it was great.  I really liked it a lot.   
  Q.  It lets you release.   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Yeah, just play, and not worry about line calls or anything like that, or someone making a wrong call on you.  I really liked it a lot.  Thought it was good.   
  Q.  You must have been pleased coming back from 2-5.  Were you cramping then?   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  I was.  At 2-1 in the third I actually started cramping a little bit.  Actually, the tour PHCT, Lisa, came out and she had me drink water and salt, and it just completely stopped.  So I was, you know, very pleased about that.  That's the first time it's ever happened.   
 It allowed me to come back and finish up playing well, so I was happy about that.   
  Q.  What do you think instant replay will add to the game as far as spectators?   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  The instant replay?   
  Q.  Uh-hmm.   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  I don't know.  I think it just makes it more fair, just in general.  As I said, I haven't watched it as a spectator to see it, how they would perceive it.  But I would guess that they would like it a lot.  As a player, I really enjoyed it.  I thought it was fun to have and to try.   
  Q.  Was it hard to decide when to do it and when not to?   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  It was, as you could see, because I was wrong both times.   
  Q.  Did you almost try in the first?  Did you think about it?   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  I did.  I just wanted to be first, you know (laughing).  That's what it was really all about.   
 I did think about it, but I thought that I was, you know, way off so I decided not to.  But it was fun, it was good.   
  Q.  You wanted to be first why?  Just to make history?   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Yeah, just to be first, you know.  Nothing better than that.  I was first, and I was wrong.   
 But, you know, it's okay.   
  Q.  On that point it looked like you looked into the stands.   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Yeah, I looked at my box, at my coach.  He was like, you know, before the match I was really excited about it.  He was like, "Stay focused.  If you really think one was good or out, then look at me and I'll tell you what I thought.  I'll tell you if I thought it was good or out or whatever, and then you can challenge."   
 So I looked at him and he was like, "Whatever, go for it (laughter)."  And so I did.   
  Q.  What do you think of the limited challenges?   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  I think it's good.  You know, if you're right, you keep them.  If you're wrong, you lose them.  I think that's only fair.  I think two is plenty.  I think the way they have it set up is perfect.  They really did a good job, really thought it out, the rules.   
 I think it's gonna work out well.  I like people are going to like it a lot.   
  Q.  Did you look at the scoreboard to see what's up there?   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Yeah, it's really quick.  I mean, I remember people were complaining about maybe it throwing off the timing and the rhythm of the match, but it didn't do anything like that at all.  I mean, obviously, the only drawback is that it's not on every court, which is the biggest thing.   
 But I think it's great.  I think it's a great addition to the game.   
  Q.  Will you miss the arguing?   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  No, I never argued, you know.  I was always great (smiling).   
 No, I mean, I can't complain about it.  I thought it was great.   
  Q.  Is arguing even on the other side distracting?  You've probably been in matches where the other person is arguing.   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  It doesn't really bother me too much.  You know, there are time limits and everything so people can't go too far or too long with it.   
 But it's just easier for both players just to -- if someone thinks something's wrong, just challenge it right then and there and get it over with and just settle it.   
  Q.  Who is your coach?   
 JAMEA JACKSON:  Rodrigo Nascimento.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT