BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS POLAND
February 6, 2016
Klaudia Jans-Ignacik
Paula Kania
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
U.S.A./Poland   
2-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Several times during the match you had breaks and opportunities.  Can you kind of expand on those?  Tell us kind of how the match went and how you were feeling.  
PAULA KANIA: You know, I was a little nervous in the beginning.  I think was pretty much the same (indiscernible) so you could actually see it.   
Because there were many breaks, like you said.  It was definitely not my day with my serve, you know, so it was really tough for me to hold it.   
But I try my best.  She is a great player.  She's a legend.  I have respect for her.  It's never easy when you're not playing your kind of best tennis to win with this kind of players.   
Actually it was really close, so like you said, big lesson for me for the next time.  I will try to stick to the plan a little better.  I hope it will work.   
 Q.  As a team, going into tomorrow 0-2, does your mentality change at all?  
PAULA KANIA: No, it doesn't change anything for us.  We came here to give our best, and it doesn't matter if we play tomorrow when the score is not good for us.  We will just go there and enjoy and try to win the match.   
 Q.  Both matches were a little up and down and erratic.  Did the conditions have anything to do with that?  
PAULA KANIA: Conditions are really, really hard, you know, for us.  The temperature is really high.  It's a big humidity.  Actually, I would say the sky is so clear.  It actually never happens normally.  So something different with the serve when you toss the ball.   
So it's really tough conditions.  The court is quite slow.  It's brand new, so, you know, like it's actually different than we normally play in other tournaments.   
It's the same for everybody, but you could see it was up and down.  I think it's tough to say, you know, but it's actually everything around, you know.   
CAPTAIN JANS-IGNACIK: You could also see when Venus was serving she had problems with the sun.  But it's just changing all the time.  We are used to these changes.  Like every week we are somewhere else.  Sometimes one day it's hotter and some days a little bit colder.  We have to adjust fast.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT