MLB WORLD SERIES: PHILLIES v YANKEES
November 1, 2009
C.C. Sabathia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 New York Yankees 7
  Philadelphia Phillies 4 
   
  Q. How did you feel out there today? And did you feel you had any ill effects with the short rest, or what kind of an experience was it, I guess?  
 CC SABATHIA: I felt good. I felt strong. You know, sometimes too strong, trying to overthrow and trying to do too much. I try to make pitches when needed to and get some big outs and try to help the team win.   
  
  Q. Alex has been hit, I think, three times in this series, Teixeira has been hit twice. Before you even go out there, there's been a warning issued. Does that put you in a little bit difficult spot because if you want to pitch inside and if you hit somebody, there might be a problem?  
 CC SABATHIA: No, I don't think I felt like it put me in a difficult spot. They told me when I went out there that we had a warning issued, but I had to pitch both sides of the plate, and I had no reservations about doing that at any time.   
 You know, it's tough that those guys got hit and they issued a warning. I thought it was a little premature. But it didn't affect me at all.   
  
  Q. So much has been made on the other side about three days' rest, whether Cliff Lee can do it or not. Do you think having done it so much that the bigger struggle is mental or physical in doing that?  
 CC SABATHIA: It's definitely mentally. You know, at this point in the season, in these situations, physically you feel fine. If anything, you feel too good. I definitely think it's more mental, just not having the day's rest to be able to come back and pitch a good game.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the Philadelphia Phillies even going back to Game 1 and then tonight and the battle that you've had with them thus far.   
 CC SABATHIA: They're a good team. You know, they're the defending champs. They have a good lineup. Like I said earlier, they have an American League lineup, and you have to battle.   
 Like I said, I was just trying to get out there and battle and do everything I could to keep our team in the game and try to get a win.   
  
  Q. The competitive guy that you are, how tough is it going to be for you sitting on the bench tomorrow night while your team goes for the championship?  
 CC SABATHIA: It's going to be tough, but I have a lot of confidence in A.J. He's ready, and he's been there for us all year. You know, this is a pretty good team, so it will be nerve wracking, though, sitting over there.   
  
  Q. I'm guessing you probably don't want to pitch again in the series knowing what that would mean. How has this season gone for you? Can you reflect personally what you've done to get this team in this position from the beginning of the season until now?  
 CC SABATHIA: I feel like I've had a pretty good year. I was just trying to go out and do what I did tonight, just battle, keep this team in the game, and like I said all year, I've been saying all year, we're going to score runs eventually. This lineup is really good, and if you keep them in the game and keep them close, good things are going to happen.  
 I think all in all to be sitting in this position, I think it was a pretty good year. I don't want to say it's over yet. I might still have one more start. But right now I feel pretty good.   
  
  Q. There was an awful lot of meetings between you and Jorge and Joe coming out of the dugout. What were all the meetings about?  
 CC SABATHIA: Just trying to get on the right page. That was in the fifth inning. There was runners on first and second, two fast guys, and we were just trying to keep them close. Making sure they didn't get -- that Victorino doesn't get in scoring position, try to keep Jimmy at second, and we were just trying to make sure we were on the right page, getting the pitches right, whatever it takes. There's really no time limit on the game, so it's up to us to make sure we're making the right pitches and doing the right things.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT