AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 25, 2009
C.C. Sabathia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ANGELS  – 2  
YANKEES  – 5  
  
  Q. Now that they signed you for this purpose, for the World Series, how is this feeling that you're now going to play in the World Series?   
 CC SABATHIA: It feels good. We came in with the goal in Spring Training of winning the championship, and we're one step closer. It's a close team, and we have a lot of fun together. And it just feels good to be able to celebrate with those guys in there.   
  
  Q. How much a point of focus going in was keeping Figgins off base and how big did that turn out to be?   
 CC SABATHIA: That was huge. Him, Aybar, Izturis. Those guys they wreak havoc on the base paths. You don't want to have to worry about them while you're facing Vlady and Torii.   
 To be able to keep those guys off the bases I think made all the difference in the series.   
  
  Q. CC, you've been very much consistent ever since you left the Indians, then the Brewers. And now with the Yankees you are showing some kind of steadiness and steadfast focus in your work. What is it that you're doing differently during the regular season and during the postseason to keep this kind of focus and going out and getting this type of results?   
 CC SABATHIA: I'm having fun. I am enjoying this process getting to this point so far. You know, going in there and you see Derek Jeter, you see Jorge Posada, you see Andy Pettitte. These guys have been through this situation a lot of times.   
 So you know, you have to lean on those guys and talk to them in situations. They have been a lot of help.   
  
  Q. CC, at what point during the season did you think that this team had the potential to be where it is today?   
 CC SABATHIA: I thought all along. When Al went down, it was going to make it tough. We held it together for a while until he got back. He made our lineup just that much better. He made our team that much better. Gave us a lot of confidence.   
 It is really not a surprise that we are here. I hate to sound like that, but this is a really good team. Like I said, we get along, we have fun. This is what you get.   
  
  Q. CC, could you sense in your first year from being around guys like Alex and Jeter and Posada how much they wanted this after what's happened the last five years or so?   
 CC SABATHIA: I mean, no doubt. You can feel not making the playoffs last year I feel like it was tough. Them welcoming us, myself, Tex, A.J., Swish from day one in Spring Training you could tell that this was going to be a special year for us.   
 THE MODERATOR: Congratulations.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT