AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v RED SOX
October 17, 2007
C.C. Sabathia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Are you disappointed in yourself in the way things have turned out, and why they've turned out?  And if so, why? 
 C.C. SABATHIA:  I wouldn't say -- I can't say disappointed.  You know, I was disappointed in the first game in Boston that I wasn't able to keep us in the game.  That's something that I've been able to do all year.  I didn't even give us a chance the other day, and that's something that I was definitely disappointed about. 
 You know, I mean, I just didn't make pitches.  I didn't execute them when I needed to.  I got into some tough situations and didn't deliver. 

 Q.  Do you have any explanation for why you've had more trouble throwing strikes when you were just so great at it all season? 
 C.C. SABATHIA:  No, not really.  I mean, between this start right here, I just went into the bullpen and worked on trying to stay taller and throw the ball downhill, something that I hadn't done in Boston, and I had a pretty good bullpen.  It was command on both sides of the plate, opposite sides felt good.  So I'm looking forward to being my normal self tomorrow night. 

 Q.  Tomorrow night you could close this out, so obviously the crowd is going to be there, the adrenaline will be pumping.  How do you control your emotions for what could happen tomorrow night? 
 C.C. SABATHIA:  Just stay calm.  Like you said, it's going to be loud in here, it's going to be fun.  Everybody is going to be excited.  But I've been doing a pretty good job of being able to keep my emotions under control, staying even keel all year.  I look to stay calm and stay in control and not try to overthrow and do so much, and I think I'll be fine. 

 Q.  Did Jake Westbrook or Paul Byrd do anything to inspire you? 
 C.C. SABATHIA:  I think they did stuff to inspire this whole team.  That's a tough lineup over there, and the way they pitched was unbelievable.  I think it was just going out and trusting their stuff, knowing what they do well and sticking with it.  That's something that I'm going to have to do tomorrow night to be successful. 

 Q.  I think you've been asked about this and haven't used it as an issue, but some people have said you've thrown an awful lot of innings and pitches this year, and maybe that might be a factor.  Is there anything to that at all? 
 C.C. SABATHIA:  I don't feel any different in my arm.  I feel fine.  I don't feel like I've thrown a lot of innings.  I feel fresh.  My arm feels good.  I really can't point to that and say that's the reason why I haven't been good these past two games. 
 But no, I feel fine. 

 Q.  The team hadn't beaten the Yankees all year, but three of those games were back in April.  The Red Sox had the series advantage.  Do you look at when you get this far, all that matters is how you're playing when you play people, period? 
 C.C. SABATHIA:  Definitely, and that's all that matters.  We knew that we were a different team that played the Yankees early in the year, and we knew that we were a different team that played Boston.  You know, we may look like guys that we don't have a lot of superstars or big names, but it's a real confident group.  It's a real confident team.  I just think we feel like when we go out, if we play our type of baseball, we've got a good chance of winning. 

 Q.  Would "opportunistic" best describe the Indians right now? 
 C.C. SABATHIA:  Yeah, I guess so.  You know, I think -- I mean, we just got hot at the right time.  We're playing real well at the right time, like Bob said.  It doesn't matter how you play during the season, it matters how well you're playing right now. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT