NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDEX 400 BENEFITING AUTISM SPEAKS
May 15, 2011
Marcos Ambrose
Mark Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We welcome into the media center Mark Martin. Mark, this is your first top five of the season. Talk a little bit about the race today. 
 MARK MARTIN: It was another great race at Dover. Golly, I love this place. I always get excited about coming here to race. You know, we had a really fast racecar. Today we finally got a finish. Looked like we were going to get 15th again with a really fast racecar. We've had a racecar this good a lot this year. Seems like for some reason or another we wind up in the back of the pack and we just don't have enough to climb our way back to the front. 
 This was a good race for us, great call by Lance, great teamwork. We've had great teamwork all year. I'm proud of this race team. I'm proud of these guys. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions for Mark Martin.

 Q. Mark, Lance made the call to stay out. How good was your car after the green flag compared to how you expected it might have been? 
 MARK MARTIN: It was good. I feel like it could contend. I had enough speed to be right there without tires. We've had great teamwork all year. I'm proud of this race team, I'm proud of these guys. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Mark, Lance made the call to stay out. How good was your car after the green flag compared to how you expected it to be? 
 MARK MARTIN: It was good. I feel like it could contend. Matt had two tires there and had a little advantage on us for a little bit. Then after a little bit, we seemed to start breaking even. I know he had a little bit left. But I had enough speed to be right there without tires. All the guys behind me were dropping off. 
 You know, we've had racecars this good this year. Every time we turn around, something goes against us.
 It was nice to have things go our way. 

 Q. Did you have a chance to discuss the call or was it just his? 
 MARK MARTIN: Next question. 

 Q. Mark, talk about how hard it was to catch somebody who is out in front? 
 MARK MARTIN: Well, like I said earlier this week, all the cars are almost the same speed, so it's incredibly difficult. This is the era of NASCAR racing that we have today. Twenty years ago, there weren't so many cars the same speed and passing and overtaking was easy. Not so easy now because you have the world's greatest drivers, 40 deep, 40 darn good racecars out there, too. That's to be expected. 
 THE MODERATOR: We also welcome into the media center, Marcos Ambrose, who finished third. We'll open it up for questions. 

 Q. Marcos, you had a third at Bristol, another concrete racetrack. Is there something about your driving style or is it just that the car is that good today? 
 MARCOS AMBROSE: That's a really good question. I don't know the answer to it. But I get good feel on these concrete tracks. Some of the issues for me when I'm having a bad day, I have trouble feeling each tire. I feel like the whole car is slipping around, can't feel which one it is. 
 On concrete, steeper banking, vertical load, I think it helps me feel the tires better. 
 Today was a tough day. The track was changing every run throughout the run. The rubber was picking up. My car was getting really slick on that rubber. 
 There wasn't much you could do. You couldn't ask for many changes on the car because you knew it was going to be that way all day. You have to keep changing and keep searching. 

 Q. Marcos, this has been an evolution for you for the last couple years on ovals. When you talk about what you wanted to learn, where do you feel like you are now, especially after a race like this where you started, where you finished, how steady you were today in terms of moving up the field? 
 MARCOS AMBROSE: This today I'm really excited about because we had a really good day at Darlington. Didn't work our way at the end, finished 13th. Terrible luck. I'm really excited that our team is learning, they're learning me, I'm learning them. I'm learning how these cars work. 
 This result today I'm really excited about because I think it's going to lead to a great Charlotte, Pocono, Indy, all these great big tracks coming. I feel like our team is suited to those tracks. 
 We've just had some rough luck so far this year. We've had accidents and incidents outside our control that has hurt our points. 
 THE MODERATOR: Gentlemen, congratulations. Thanks very much for coming in this afternoon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT