adidas International
January 16, 2004
Martin Verkerk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  What was the problem there?

MARTIN VERKERK:  Very dizzy, and I had some stomach problems before the match, actually.  A half an hour before, I had diarrhea.  But I thought I was gonna be okay.  But also the first part of the match I felt like light in the head, dizzy, and like especially when I wanted to start serving and look down, I was really like dizzy.  After long rallies, difficult to look and everything.  So it was not safe for me to go on for my health.  So, yeah, I'm very disappointed, of course.

Q.  When did it come on, when you woke up this morning?

MARTIN VERKERK:  No, I was pretty good.  Warm-up was pretty okay.  Then, yeah, it suddenly hit me on the court already in the beginning of the match.  So I don't know what it is.

Q.  There is a 24-hour bug going around.  Apparently other people have been hit by it this week.  I understood it hit one or two other players as well; certainly hit one or two in the press room as well.  It does come on suddenly. 

MARTIN VERKERK:  I don't know.  I hope I'm clear in 24 hours then.  But I let myself  -- the doctor check me, and he said I cannot do a lot.   Tomorrow I go to Melbourne and if I have the same, yeah, I let it check out, but...  I hope it's a one-day thing.  But to get that in the semis of Sydney, yeah, is really disappointing for me of course.

Q.  Particularly after the way you played last night.

MARTIN VERKERK:  I played good.  You play against Hewitt, it can be a nice match.  Maybe you lose, maybe you win, but at least compete and you can play.   Now, I've got forced to give up, and that's, yeah, not nice. 

Q.  Did you have lunch during the delays? 

MARTIN VERKERK:  Yeah.  I had a lot of lunch.  I did everything like usually, so I cannot find a reason why it happens. 

Q.  Was it the first time you've had to pull out of a game like this?

MARTIN VERKERK:  Yes. 

Q.  Did you first feel it at the beginning of the match or when you came back after the rain delay?

MARTIN VERKERK:  No, at the beginning already  - or beginning, third game, something like that.  So, I don't know, maybe it's the heat that happen the days before.  I arrived out of Hong Kong, of course.  Played an exhibition there.  Arrived on Sunday.  It's warm here.  Had a few days.  Maybe the sun, I don't know.  Was not hot today, but maybe from the days before it.  I don't know. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT