NBA ALL-STAR 2018
February 17, 2018
Bradley Beal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If you can't take the last shot, how do you choose one guy?  
BRADLEY BEAL: Oh, man, you can pick anybody from this group.  That's a tough one.  I don't even want to be put on the hot seat.  That's a tough one.   
 Q.  Can you show us your favorite emoji face?  
BRADLEY BEAL: My favorite emoji face?   
 Q.  That's one right there?  
BRADLEY BEAL: Yeah, the thinking one, yeah.   
 Q.  What's your go-to musical artist?  
BRADLEY BEAL: Oh, that's a tough one.  A lot of new stuff came out, like Nipsey's really hot right now.  I love the Migos, but I feel like "Big Shot" by Kendrick is my go-to song right now.   
 Q.  You like Migos?  
BRADLEY BEAL: Yeah, Migos are going to have the wave for the next couple years, for sure.   
 Q.  It's Black History Month.  I'm with NBCBLK.  So we're asking what does black history mean to you?  Did you celebrate as a kid?  How does it feel for you now, today, this month?  
BRADLEY BEAL: Most definitely, because I know I wouldn't be here without it.  Like I heard before, black history is American history.  I always feel like it's all together.  In a sense it doesn't -- it alters my story, but it doesn't at the same time.  I feel like I'm still living my life, and I wouldn't be able to do it without the pioneers before me.   
So I definitely pay homage to them.  I'm definitely respectful about it and appreciative of it.  Because I know I wouldn't be where I am today without those guys before me, the guys who played, the people who were in the civil rights movement, and even before then.  So I definitely credit them.   
 Q.  Who was your biggest inspiration?  
BRADLEY BEAL: Oh, man, it was always my parents.  It was always my parents.  Because my parents raised me the right way.  They've been through the struggle before, living in that tough time.   
On top of that, they're the ones who put the ball in my hand.  They're the ones who always pushed me to be better in everything in life.  Never accepting no for an answer.  Never letting anybody tell me I can't do it.  They were always the ones who picked me up when I hit the ground and told me to keep moving forward.   
So I would definitely say my parents.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on "shut up and dribble?"  
BRADLEY BEAL: I didn't necessarily hear the whole thing, but I definitely heard "shut up and dribble."  Like, that's a tough one, because at the end of the day LeBron is a very powerful man.  Like he has a huge voice.  People respect what he has to say.   
So I feel like there was a better way for her to handle that than telling somebody to shut up and dribble.  Because he probably has a greater impact than she does.  So at the end of the day I feel like he's speaking not only for himself but for people around the world, and he's speaking through straight experience, and experiences I'm sure that she probably hasn't dealt with either.   
It's tough to say because I didn't -- I heard bits and pieces of it, but if when I review it -- I'll probably review it after this and really elaborate on it, but I don't think what she said was right, for sure.   
 Q.  You have a lot of young superstars on Team LeBron right now.  One of those guys is Kemba Walker.  What have you seen from his game?  
BRADLEY BEAL: I love Kemba, man.  Kemba's my guy.  He's quick, shifty.  Feel like me and him have one of the best step-backs, competing-wise, we have one of the best step-backs in the game.   
I'm looking forward to it.  I feel like we have a really good team.  He's a star.  He's more than deserving of it.  Man, I hate playing against him, but I'm happy to be on his team.  I will say that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT