NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2012
Bradley Beal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Start with your thoughts about being drafted by the Wizards? 
BRADLEY BEAL:   First of all it's a blessing and an honor to be drafted and to be drafted by the Wizards is terrific.   They have a great front office and great team on the uprising.   Looking forward to making an impact and going to D.C.. 

Q.   Now they have acquired Trevor Ariza as well as Emeka Okafor, and they already have Nene.   Talk about how that veteran leadership can really accentuate your game. 
BRADLEY BEAL:   It really can like you just said.   Hopefully I can look up to these guys and they can take me under their wing and push me to be better and help the team out as much as I can.   We have two great bigs and a big point guard who can continue to get better and Ariza has proved himself that he can win games.   Hopefully I can just get to D.C. and make an impact as quickly as I can. 

Q.   Other teams have talked about wanting to trade up; what's that like for you and is Washington the team you thought was the best fit for you? 
BRADLEY BEAL:   First, I thought any fit would have been pretty good but that fit kind of made more sense than anything.   But the trade speculations really made me nervous because I had no idea where I was going to go.   At first I thought it was between Charlotte, Cleveland and then Washington but then all of a sudden you hear all of these other teams want to trade up and get other players, as well.   So you never knew what was going to happen but at the end of the day, I was glad I was picked third. 

Q.   I know you battled with the decision to come out from Florida, but now that you're here, pretty good decision, right? 
BRADLEY BEAL:   Yeah, it was a great decision I would say.   But it was pretty tough honestly, because I like school, and what I wanted to do in school required at least 12 years worth of school.   So to give it up for something totally new, and then our team next year would have been great, and I still hope they will be great and I hope for nothing but the best for them.   But at the end of the day, I knew I had to chase this dream in front of me.

Q.   How did you celebrate your 18th birthday and how is this different? 
BRADLEY BEAL:   I was at school my 18th birthday so it wasn't too good, summer school.   We have orientation, so it wasn't too good of a birthday.   But this one definitely tops off anything else. 

Q.   And also do you see yourself as a starter right away?
BRADLEY BEAL:   Whatever Coach wants me to do and whatever role he puts me in, I'm willing to do whatever it takes to win and to help the team.   I'm not going to come in and just try to force the issue.   I'm going to try to come in and try to feel things out and get to know the vets a little bit and get them to push me and actually start learning the game more, and hopefully if I'm in that role, I'm in that role. 

Q.   What's the one aspect of your game, obviously the Wizards touted your shooting ability and speed; but what's the one aspect of your game that you think you can bring to the Washington Wizards to impact the team immediately going into next season?
BRADLEY BEAL:   Hopefully my shooting ability and my ability to space the floor out.   Hopefully that gives driving lanes for John Wall and Jordan Crawford.   Hopefully I can make shots when I'm open.

Q.   Have you stopped and reflected on what type of community service or foundation you're going to start or one of the first things that you're going to do to help other people?
BRADLEY BEAL:   I'm big on that and that's one of the first things I want to do outside of basketball is get back to the community, whether it's visiting kids in hospital or teaching them basketball.   I love to do little things like that, because they support you, and it's always great and I think you should support them as well.   I'm really big on that and hopefully I can get started right away.

Q.   Have you been in touch with David Lee and has he advised you on transitioning to the next level?
BRADLEY BEAL:   I haven't really talked to him much during the process, but when I have, he said it's another level and that you have to be ready to step up and make an impact and that they are making an investment in you, so you really want to give it your all.   I've been talking to people and I want to make sure I do the right things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT