NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 5, 2000
Abdelkhader El Mouaziz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   He said that he was just in Sydney and was recovering and relaxed training, of course and when he started today, in the beginning, he felt that he was too slow, the pace; that's why he went in front to make his own race.


Q.  A lot of previous runners in this particular marathon that have gone out here, made a charge early and then sort of watched the field reel them in.  Did you have any worry at that point that that could happen to you? 

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   He said that they were fast in a very difficult race, and in the meantime, the park at the end was very difficult; that's why he wanted the gap, and the wind  -- 12 kilometers to go, he was confident that he was going to win. 


Q.  At about eight miles to go? 

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   Yeah, about eight miles. 


Q.  Can you give us an idea of his training in between Sydney and New York? 

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   When he came back from Sydney, directly from the airport he went straight to the altitude center and he was just trying to recover from Sydney.  That's why I remember, that met with Roberts and she said that you will run the marathon after the Olympics and I told you that we must win the race in Sydney and then after  -- I think on the 8th, he knew if I was ready  -- on the way back because Sydney was very crowded that day and then he called me back on the 9th to say, okay, New York.


Q.  The altitude center that you're referring to, where is that? 

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   It is in Morocco. 


Q.  He slowed down quite a bit in the end.  Obviously he was fatigued.  Did he have anything in reserve if one of the pursuers had caught him? 

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   Yesterday we discussed it and the pace, he knew that to be ready that the others were coming at the end and that's why when the end came he was confident that in the end (inaudible).

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   It was clear, after we watched back. 


Q.  With the wind there in his face, was it in his face for a lot of the race or did it keep changing? 

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   He said that the wind, he felt the wind in a group, he felt the wind, but alone he felt the wind but he doesn't like much the wind.  He said that if the park at the end was not like that, without the wind he would have run a very fast time today.  He would have had a very good time at the end.


Q.  Was he disappointed in his seventh place finish at the Olympics and if so, does this help make up for that? 

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:  It's true, Sydney, seventh place, it was motivating him a lot here because in Sydney he was ready to run very  -- and they made  -- he made a technical, big mistake in the race, and that is why he was really disappointed and he said that, "I have to win New York, try to win New York, in order to clear myself."   


Q.  What was the big mistake?

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   The technical mistake was that he didn't make his race, that's what he said.  There was no wind, it was perfect, but, the reason Sydney wasn't perfect for him was because Kenya  -- the guy who was second, third  -- it was very, very good.  But there were the others and he watched the few guys going, and so when he saw it was late he came back on them and he remained in the middle, 50-70 middles, staying in the middle, no wind alone, and that's why it is very difficult to run in the wind.  That's the mistake.  Follow at the right moment. 


Q.  Were you surprised that you were running alone?  So you opened up such a big lead so fast that nobody went with you, and was there any concern at all that you would blow off a little bit at the end? 

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   Even though he was not running a marathon it was easy to do the same type of races  -- it means going out in the field.  And of course, that's the way to run, when it is right, don't make any mistakes.  That's why I said that he was confident in himself, because this is the way like he used to run. 


Q.  Can you talk a little bit more about the decision to run in this race after Sydney?  Did you say the first day he got back from the flight he didn't want to run and then he decided the next day? 

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   No, you have not understood.  He went directly from the airport to  -- he didn't go back home.  He went directly to the altitude center.  Of course, the reason was just to run here.  You have to run a marathon  -- he ran a marathon in Sydney.  He told me, no problem, I am not going to blow off this marathon, and without the medal  -- that's when he said to me that I am running in New York.

ABDELKHADER EL MOUAZIZ:   First of all, it is the King of Morocco, and I'm sure we'll hear from him tonight.  The King of Morocco is Mohammed VI, he is the first sportsman (inaudible). 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT