CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2006
Victor Ciesielski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Come on.  Are you kidding me?
Q.  No, describe it for us.
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Three iron, never left the stick.  One hop, it rolled right in.  I'm very unimpressed right now.  I really wanted to have that for the rest of my life.
Q.  (Indiscernible) TSN.
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  I don't think we're going to go that far.
Q.  How many hole in ones do you have?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  That was my second one.  I imagine that's the only one that counts.
Q.  How crazy was the reaction?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Oh, it was just wild.  I wasn't sure if it went in or not.  It's tracking.  Like you never know with the rollers.  You can't see it go in, so it's kind of like I was right there at even par and I know I needed to push it at least to 1 under just to make sure I'm safe, within the cut line, right?

So, you know, they all knew exactly what was going on.  When I hit it stiff, I thought I hit it stiff.  All right, cool.  1 under, hold it together.  I got up there, they kept whistling and cheering.  I was like, Oh, man, it's in.
Q.  (Indiscernible)
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  I wasn't sure.  Everybody was like, It's in, it's in, it's in.  I was like, Okay.  Started giving everyone hugs and high fives and stuff.  You know, until I saw it at the bottom of the hole, I wasn't sure if it was in or not.
Q.  You're on such a high after a hole in one, you  still have three holes to play.  You're in a good position at 2 under, but how do you kind of focus and continue doing what you're doing?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  It got pretty nerve wracking.  To tell you the truth, sitting at even par was even worse.  When you make a shot like that, it's like, okay, worst case scenario if I do blow a shot, it's okay because I'm still within the cut line.  That's all that matters this week.  That's my first goal.
Q.  You and Richard are amateurs, both make the cut.
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Richard made it?  Atta'boy.  You know, Richard is an unbelievable player.  His credentials speak for themselves.  He's pretty solid.  It's not a spark at all that he made it.  People have bad weeks.  I'm not sure what happened to Stephen.  Did he pull out?
Q.  Back problem.
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  What can you do about that?  If you're hurt, you're hurt.  That's the way it goes sometimes.
Q.  Any discussion on the tee, 3 iron, between you and your caddie?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  No, it was either hit a 3 iron or crush a 3 iron.  So we kind of went in between and it worked out okay.
Q.  Do you think you can get used to all these microphones getting shoved in your face?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  I think I'm getting used to it now.  I wouldn't mind.
Q.  (Indiscernible) freaking out over here.
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  They're on Cloud 9.  It's huge, having the whole country club here, all my friends.  The support is unbelievable.
Q.  (Indiscernible.)
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  You better believe it.  Watch yourself for the weekend, guys.
Q.  Plans canceled now because you're playing?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Yeah, I was supposed to go to New York for a tournament with Waterloo.  I guess that didn't pan out.
Q.  I understand you were a little unhappy on the front line.
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  I shot three over par.  You know, I was nervous.  Yesterday I wasn't really nervous at all just because I had no expectations and I kind of just went out there carefree and knew my game was good enough to shoot under par.  Today there's all this hype.  I saw myself on TSN.  I'm like, Oh, man, I better play well.

I was really upset, but that was just me feeling myself, grinding it out, firing myself up.  Then I made a great shot on No. 1 there, hit it within six feet.  It was like a three club wind.  Rolled that in.  Kind of struggled, struggled, struggled, you know, got a hole in one.  How can I not smile?
Q.  When you get to 1, you're needing a stroke to get into contention, that wind was howling, what are you thinking?  Settle down?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  It wasn't to settle down.  It was, You better hit a good shot because you're not going to be around for the weekend and that's not going to feel that good.  My caddie and I, J.D., we just played it just like a normal golf shot.  Played it, read the yardage, two club wind, punch a 6 iron right at it and see where it goes.  Ended up pretty good.
Q.  Talk about the importance of the long par save you made as you were heading into the turn?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Did you guys have that one on camera?  All right, cool.  I want that one, too.  That was loud.  That loud, yeah.  That was pretty cool.

No, I leaked a 3 wood on 18 a little bit right.  Weren't sure what to hit because it was downwind.  I knew if I hit a good 3 wood, I would be in the water.  Didn't want to hit a 3 iron.  Nothing in between.  Slide a 3 wood down there.  Kind of slid too far right into the bunker.  In hindsight probably didn't take a good play out of that bunker.

But, you know, it had enough overspin to get over the creek.  Hit it out there to 40 feet maybe it was.  You know, J.D., my caddie, was just pumping up the crowd when I was coming up.  I was like, Come on, this is for par.  I got 50 feet.  Settle down.  I rolled it in.
Q.  Tomorrow and Sunday, you should be the fan favorite at the Canadian Open.
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  That's kind of nice.  I don't know about the fan favorite.  I have my little entourage over there, the country club, all my family, pretty much everyone that I know is out here just supporting me.  It feels good.
Q.  You said your first goal is to make the cut (indiscernible).
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  We're not going to talk about those.
Q.  Do you have any funny superstitions we should know about?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  No, not at all.  Absolutely not.  Not that I know of.
Q.  Your buddies said they're going to tuck you in tonight.  No party.
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Okay, tuck me in now.  I thought you said they're going to bring me out and then throw me in.

No, you know, I shot 2 under final.  7:30 the tee off time starts.  I'm going to get a good night's sleep.  I'm definitely going to have a beer.  No doubt about that one.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT