CANADIAN OPEN
September 7, 2006
Victor Ciesielski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Do you feel comfortable on an old style course?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Definitely.  This golf course, 102 years old, it's really nice around here.  The area is the same.  The elevation is a little steeper here, but I've played a lot of old golf courses, a lot of old Stanley Thompsons.
Q.  Think 3 under could have been 1 under by finishing up 18.  You said you had a nice save there, but what did you think about your round overall?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  I hit the ball pretty well.  The first couple of holes I saved it pretty good.  And I just made a couple of good up and downs.  But I was 1, 2, and then got up to 3 and made a loose swing and got it back to 2 and then got it back to 3.  It was up and down, it was kind of frustrating. I was swinging well.  And I kept saying to J.D., my caddie, let's push it to 4, let's push it to 5, and it didn't seem to go that way sometimes.
Q.  Any awe factor playing in the Canadian Open?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  There might have been a little bit when I walked into the players' lounge and guys like Vijay are sitting down, and eating shrimp, and oh, all right, I'll take some shrimp, too, don't mind if I do.  But it's all business out here, and that's the way you have to treat it.  You treat it like it's another tournament and play it and we'll see what the final verdict is.  I can't let these guys factor in    they shoot 7 under, I shoot 2 under, who knows what's going to happen tomorrow.
Q.  There's some pretty decorated amateurs in this field.  What's your claim to fame at this point?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  I don't think I have any.  I think I just created it today.  Well, Richard is an amazing player, and I played James last year at the Canadian Amateur, and he's a very talented guy.  There's a lot of great Canadians out here and a lot of talent coming out of Canada right now.  I'm excited about that.  And I'm excited to be one of those.
Q.  Would you like to see yourself out here?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Of course, why wouldn't you want to be out here?  You get treated like gold all the time.  But it's a long journey and I have a lot of work ahead of me.
Q.  Would you take the check, give up your amateur standing?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  No.  I'm not ready for it yet.  My game isn't good enough to be out here yet.
Q.  What were your expectations coming in here?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  I don't know.  I'm just playing good for the last month and a half.  I said earlier to a couple of guys, I don't think I shot over par for 30, 40 rounds.  It's another golf course.  I've been out here.  It's not long, keep it straight, putt well and play smart.  That's all that happens.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Actually it's just everything is kind of clicking, not saying that everything is really good, it's just everything is kind of the same.  There's no big hiccups, even though I had a couple out there today.  I've always had good ball striking rounds, but really bad putting rounds.  And it's just, I don't know, I think mentally I just stepped it up to the next level and thinking    on putting, especially, every single putt is a necessity, and if I don't make this putt I'm going to lose one back.  So make it.  It's like you treat a par putt.  Nobody wants to make a bogey, you've got to make that par.  That's how I'm treating my birdie putts now.
Q.  You seem like a confident guy, have you always been that way?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  I have no idea.  I don't know, maybe my parents.  They played athletics and I played basketball and all types of different sports all through my life.  I'm just confident with my game, maybe, and I'm just pleased to be out here.
Q.  How long have you been playing golf?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Since I was 14.
Q.  Who do you work for?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  I work for Dean Fitzgerald, he's a salesman for Nike.
Q.  How did the course treat you?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Today it was a good learning experience.  Like D.A., I hadn't talked to him and Jeff has been out here, too, both of them gave me a couple of pointers.  The real treat was on Tuesday when J.D. met Brian, and he set up a practice round with Trevor Immelman.  That was real good.  He's 7th on the money list right now, how can you beat that?  That was really good.  He's a really nice guy, and it's nice to see he's got some personalities, just like me, go sit down and have a beer or do whatever, and just another day.
Q.  You played well with him in the practice round.
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  I played solid.  The same as always.  Hopefully I'll keep that going.
Q.  Why did you decide to come back to Waterloo after a year in the States?
VICTOR CIESIELSKI:  Personal reasons.  And things didn't work out the way I thought it would.  It's really hit and miss when you go down there.  I decided to be close to home, I'm only 15 minutes drive from Waterloo.  The coaches are unbelievable, too, I'm really excited about that, with Dave Hollinger and Jack Pearse there.  They are unbelievable guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT