TCS NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 30, 2014
Luke Puskedra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LUKE PUSKEDRA:   We decided that New York was a good marathon 12 weeks‑‑ or 16 weeks ago.   After the track season ended, I had a little bit of a break after track season.   So I took two weeks away from the sport and just mentally, just tried to find the joy in running again.   
When we started training‑‑ when I started training again, things started clicking, and so we said, yeah, I think this year's the year to do the marathon, and the fall is going to be the time.   New York made the most sense.   
When Alberto Salazar, my coach, being very intertwined with the culture here, I think that that made the decision that much easier.  
   
 Q.   And how many months or weeks do you train?     
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   Like 16‑‑ you had some kind of training in the summer, but actual marathon training.   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   The marathon training was about 12 weeks of like high mileage and that sort of stuff.   I think that, more than that kind of‑‑ you kind of get stale in that like you can only run the high miles and stuff for so long before you get tired.   So we just kind of did a more concentrated approach and made it so that that training block is very, very positive training.  
   
 Q.   What was the highest mileage for the weekly?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   During those weeks I'd run 170 miles.  
   
 Q.   For the weekly?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   Yeah, for the week.   Oh, for the weekend?   Well, 100‑‑ it was anywhere from 160 to 170 miles, but the high‑‑ yeah, the highest was 170 miles.   
   
 Q.   That's a lot.   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   It was a lot.  
   
 Q.   How about during the track season?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   During the track season, I'd run maybe like 120, but we would do faster sessions.   It just took me a lot longer than a lot of other guys in the group, like Mo, Galen, Matt Centrowitz, Cam Levins.     It took me a little longer to recover.   In those days in between, I was jogging a lot slower during the track season because it was so taxing with the workouts.  
   
 Q.   You didn't have any issues during training?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   No, I've always been pretty good without injuries since I started running.   Like no hiccups.  
   
 Q.   How about the mileage?   Like did you run like 20 miles or 26 miles a day, something like that?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   Some days would be a little bit longer than others, but it was anywhere from like 20 to 25 miles.  
   
 Q.   So like a tempo or more like a pace?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   We would work out twice a week and then do a long run.   So the two times we'd work out, they were pretty demanding workouts, and the long run was pretty demanding.   A lot of them were progressive where you'd run faster and faster, but you're just out there for so long, you're on your feet for so long, that it's tough.   
The days in between would be easier running.  
   
 Q.   Did you have somebody to go with?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   So our group, a lot of the guys, they finished their track season in the summer.   So they're actually on their break.   So a lot of the training I did on my own.  
   
 Q.   But you're fine with it?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   Yeah.   No, it's good.   We have a good support group with, it just starts with the weight lifting, and you have Alberto at every single workout.   Like I said, fine tuning my form, making sure it's bringing the left elbow in, that sort of stuff, where every lap in tempo, a lot of stuff we were doing on the track.   I needed to become stronger with my form because I was kind of running, I guess, lopsided, I guess you'd say.   
But a lot of the longer tempos were on the track, and you had Alberto Salazar and Pete Julian out there, just telling me to fix different things, more concentrated.   
   
 Q.   What about the form?   What did you have, and how did you fix it?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   So I kind of like ran more like with my elbows would be out, and my‑‑ like my arms really didn't‑‑ you know, you want your arms to like reflect what your legs are doing, like opposite arm, opposite leg.   But like I was very exaggerated arms where my leg‑‑ it was actually out of sync with my legs.   So like the forces were‑‑ like my arms were doing one thing, and my legs would like try to keep up, but it was more like a lot of‑‑ like my legs trying to keep up, and it was almost like a break.   Every time I'd step, it was like the next step I'd come up like this, a lot of wasted motion.  
   
 Q.   How long did it take you to fix it?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   It took a long time.   The thing is like the first day of my break after the track season, we actually, me and my wife were at the car dealership, and we get a call from Alberto, and he's like, hey, I want you to come by my office.   I think I figured it out.   
And that's just the way Alberto is.   Alberto is a very caring person and a very caring coach, where he really cares.   Like he was frustrated with the way the track season was, and I was as well.   And I think it was the right decision to shut it down.   
I went into his office, and he was just‑‑ we were watching the videos, and he was like, we need to change this about your form and like your arm swing.   So it started there, and it was probably about‑‑ I mean, during my break I would run one mile a day where I would just be on a treadmill, and I would try to like get it to look that way.   But a lot of the flexibility and strength and that stuff.   It was probably about‑‑ I'm still working on it.   It's still a work in progress, but I saw big gains after the first five weeks probably.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it makes you more achy and you have a hard time, like you're putting in the miles for the marathon, mentally you cannot be there to fix your form.   Do you think you can keep that for 26 miles?   
LUKE PUSKEDRA:   I think muscle memory, but I think a lot of it was I just wasn't strong enough.   A lot of stuff in the weight room, a lot of core strength in my legs where now‑‑ of course, in the earlier part of the race, you're not thinking, okay, get your arms and legs.   You're thinking where is the finish line?   Like every time you come around the corner, am I there?   
So I think that just in training you focus on that training only, especially the easier days.   But a lot of the fast workouts that I don't even think about is because it comes more naturally now.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT