WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2013
Derek Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Couple of times today had you to settle for an even par round.   Your thoughts on how it went out there?   
DEREK ERNST:   It was tough.   I did get off to a hot start, but just coming down that stretch the last couple holes are tough.   I don't know.   I fought hard, so it was a good day.  
   
 Q.   How much more difficult was the course today than you've seen the first couple of days?   
DEREK ERNST:   It was just windier.   I think that was the only key.   Because you get back in those threes and you can't really feel it.   Also like 17, the grandstand right there, and you don't know how much is coming off the left there, so it's kind of tricky.   
I don't know how much the wind gusts were today, but there were a couple times it was really pushing the golf ball off the tee.  
   
 Q.   How many times did you look at the leaderboard?   Because it got up to 11 at one point and now at 10.   The guys are struggling coming home.   Did you pay attention to where you were related to the field?   
DEREK ERNST:   No, I never looked at it.   If you stick to the process, it was bound to happen.   Tomorrow maybe I'll look at the leaderboard if I have a chance.  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about tomorrow because split tees going off early in the morning because of the rain.   It's going to be a battle out there tomorrow?  
DEREK ERNST:   It is.   They've got threesomes, yeah, split up.   90% chance of rain, stay dry, and yeah, that helps.  
   
 Q.   We talked earlier in the week and you weren't feeling any pressure out here, and it hasn't gotten to you.   You're here in the mix heading into the final round.   How about the excitement and confidence you have heading into Sunday?   
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah, the only pressure there is what you put on yourself.   I'm just excited.   Like I said yesterday, I'm just trying to have fun.   I did today.   I did get on myself a little bit.   I hit a couple bad shots.   I'm going to go work on that right now, and hopefully it will be good for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   It's about minimizing the damage though.   You were able to push through that and still finish strong?  
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah, I struggled quite a bit, but to come through with an even par, I'll take that for today.  
   
 Q.   With the weather coming in, does that change how you play this golf course tomorrow?   I mean, how do you approach it tomorrow?   
DEREK ERNST:   I think you've got to be more aggressive because if it's going to be more wet the ball's just going to stop.   So I think bigger sticks off the tee, and just fire at those pins and throw darts in there, I think.  
   
 Q.   Because of your mentality and maybe even your age, are you maybe one of the better players to handle the change as far as the tee times and the change in schedule?   
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah, sure.   At UNLV I had to wake up at 5 a.m. every other morning, so time really is nothing.   If I have to wake up early or not, it is what it is.   You have to go play at any time of the day.  
   
 Q.   Why did you have to wake up at 5 o'clock every other day?   
DEREK ERNST:   Workouts.   We had workouts at 5:45 and you had to be there ten minutes early.  
   
 Q.   What was the wait like for you on the 17th tee box?   You made it through 16.   You're still in the hunt and you're playing well.   Then you have to sit there and wait and wait and wait?  
DEREK ERNST:   It was different too because we watched them tee off, and then the wind completely switched when I was about to tee off.   Because, for them, we watched their shots and it hit a little right, but the wind never pushed it and made theirs stay, basically.   Right before I teed off, I noticed the wind was going almost dead left to right instead of more downwind.   I was going to hit 7 and I hit 6 instead.   That didn't even really get there.   So it was a tough wait, but, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel that you can make up a bunch of shots tomorrow with the weather?   
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah, because you don't know what's going to happen tomorrow.   I mean, people could come up from way back to win.   It is what it is.   You stick to your process, basically, yeah.  
   
 Q.   A number of guys who don't have huge resumes like yourself, now they're gone but you're still there.   Has your confidence grown every day since round one or do you feel as good?   
DEREK ERNST:   The confidence is the same as round one.   I know I can play with these guys.   It's just getting out of my own way.   That was the problem with the first two or three months of the season so far.   I was just getting in my own way.   Now I've been working on that, and I'm just starting to play golf like I know how.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT