SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 9, 2013
Derek Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Derek, what kind of expectations do you have for this week?   
DEREK ERNST:   I don't know.   I want to come out and win, I guess.   I mean, you don't really‑‑ I haven't really gotten to think about it, it's all happened so fast.   Once after Q‑school, that night I flew to Asia and played in two Asian Tour events, and then I got back and it was Christmas time and New Year's, so I didn't think about golf.   I wanted to take some time off.   Next thing you know, a week later I've got this coming up, so I just practiced and got ready, so I'm not thinking about expectations, I'm just thinking about playing my own game and playing the way I know I can play.  
   
 Q.   So you can really go through the entire Christmas holiday and not think in two weeks I'm playing on the PGA TOUR?  
DEREK ERNST:   I tried not to.   It was kind of in the back of my mind, but I knew I needed to take some time off after playing three or four weeks straight there for Q‑school and then the other two Asian Tour events.   But yeah, it was definitely in the back of my mind, but I just tried to lay low and not think about golf for a while.  
   
 Q.   Have you gotten over the wow factor?   Have you looked up and seen Vijay Singh hitting balls or Keegan Bradley or Dustin Johnson?   
DEREK ERNST:   A little bit.   I played at the Fry's last year, I Monday qualified, so that was kind of my eye‑opener for that.   And then the Asian Tour events, Bubba was over there, Lee Westwood, Charl Schwartzel, all the big guys, so it kind of got me to not think about, oh, wow, I'm actually here.   Now I'm kind of more comfortable and I want to get into the winning circle with everyone else.  
   
 Q.   Are you interested to see how your game measures up?   
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah.   I mean, really excited.   I just want to go play.   I feel like since I've gotten here, time has gone by slow.   I want to get into tournament golf and just play and put up a score, play to my expectations and not to anyone else's.   
   
  
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT