NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2015
Derek Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Solid playing out there.  Seemed like a grind for everyone.  Talk about how you were able to stay in control and post a decent score.  
DEREK ERNST: I knew it was going to be tough.  I just saw that the weather wasn't supposed to be good today and the wind was supposed to be stronger than ever.   
I knew there was going to be a few mistakes made by everybody today.  That's just how the golf course is.  It's set up tough and the greens were firm.   
I just focused one shot at time and I didn't get too far ahead of myself.  Other than the last hole I really wanted to birdie.  But it was all right.  Very happy with how I played.   
 Q.  First top 10 since your win in Charlotte a couple years ago.  What do you think was better this week than other weeks this year?  
DEREK ERNST: Nothing.  Absolutely nothing.  Been all year long I just -- you know, sometimes they click and sometimes you have a good week.  Depends how everyone else plays, too, right?   
I could play the same as I did when I got 40th versus the week I shot 11-under and got 15th place at the Wyndham.  Here I shot 2-under and I'm fifth.  Feel like I played better there, you know.   
It's just all perspective.   
 Q.  Is it in any way satisfying to prove to yourself that your game is still good enough to contend?  
DEREK ERNST: I didn't need to prove -- unless you guys needed something.  I was fine all along.  No doubt in my mind.   
 Q.  Talk about what it means going into next week putting yourself in a better position to finish in the top 25 and get your card.  
DEREK ERNST: Yeah, feels great.  I just have to have a decent week next week and I'll be fine.  I'm not trying to do that.  I'm trying to go out and just compete and do the best I can next week, too, like every other week.   
 Q.  Anything in your game you want to hone in on?  
DEREK ERNST: Yeah, little bit of putting.  Lag putting in particular.  I have never seen the course next week at all.  Played the PLAYERS twice, but not that course.  Interesting to see how similar or not similar they are.   
 Q.  Talk about the golf course this week and how really challenging it was.  Pretty good test.  
DEREK ERNST: Yeah, this was my first time.  A lot of the guys talk about coming in and they played college tournaments here.  We never did at UNLV.  I loved it.  Just felt like it fit my game great.   
I'm a high draw of the ball, and it just seemed like every hole fit me.  Worked out perfect, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT