VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2015
Derek Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     Shot a 3rd round 69.   Walks over here goes, deep breath.   How much of a grind is it to play?  
DEREK ERNST:   It's brutal mentally and physically.   You're just trying -- sometimes you want to make par and that's all you can do.   Other times there's a couple holes where you actually can make birdie.   You're trying to take advantage of that.  
   
 Q.   You got a win a few years ago at Charlotte, the Wells Fargo Championship.   How much will you lean on that experience tomorrow?  
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah.   I think there I was also a couple back going into the final round and I'm just kind of playing one shot a time.   Feels good to get the competitive juices going again.   I'm having a great time.  
   
 Q.   69 today.   Started off in tremendous style.   Take us through the second shot to the first that set-up the eagle.  
DEREK ERNST:   Actually a little bit of mud.   Had 4-iron, 220, 230.   Trying to hit it middle of the green.   Landed it a little short and got it pin high and made the putt.  
   
 Q.   You missed 7 of your last 8 cuts.   How do you explain it?  
DEREK ERNST:   All belief in yourself.   Golf is so mental and this week I just flipped the switch and started believing in myself and had some positive affirmations I've been telling myself.   It shows obviously right there.  
   
 Q.   Incredible par at 13 there.  
AI hit a horrible iron shot with that wind coming off the right.   I couldn't get it -- that first chip shot over in the high stuff just try to get it over on the green.   I'm going to chip this in.   Move on to the next hole.  
   
 Q.   Good positive.   17 again, I couldn't see how you could get it up and down from there.  
DEREK ERNST:   I pulled this and then I just said I'm going to hoist this up straight up as I can and, you know, get it up there.   I knew if I got it past the hill I would have an uphill putt.  
   
 Q.   Only Top-10 in 61 stars and a win.   You go ahead and make that attitude tomorrow, how confident are you about your chances?  
DEREK ERNST:   I'm really good.   In Charlotte I was a couple back going into the final round.   I like coming from behind and being the underdog and going posting a low number and have them chasing me.  
   
 Q.   You're in great physical shape but you have to be exhausted after a day like today.  
DEREK ERNST:   Mentally more than I am physically.   I grind out there, just try and post a number coming in.  
   
 Q.   What makes the course so hard.   It's the wind, the rough, combination?  
DEREK ERNST:   It's everything.   The wind, the rough.   That rough is so sticky you get in some of the spots you got a little short one right off the green and harder than a 60-yard bunker shot.   It's a grind out there for sure.  
   
 Q.   A good day for you.   You're right there.   You have to be very pleased.  
DEREK ERNST:   I'm very pleased with how I played today.   A couple back going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I like following you, too, because you make up your mind quickly and you play it.  
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah.   You know, no point in wasting anytime.   I see what I want and go after that.  
   
 Q.   Having won a big tournament like you did at Wells Fargo, is that helpful heading into tomorrow?  
DEREK ERNST:   Oh, yeah.   I think I was a couple back going into there like I said and I'm going to try and build off that mojo and think about that.  
   
 Q.   Have to be patient I guess.  
DEREK ERNST:   Exactly, that's it.  
   
 Q.   Looking for shirts today?  
DEREK ERNST:   No.  
   
 Q.   All right.   Derrick solid round today.   How would you access how things went in?  
DEREK ERNST:   I give myself an A today on how I played.   More mentally than physically.   I had a few bad swings out there.   Mentally I fought all the way through.  
   
 Q.   What was your comfort level as this day progressed?  
DEREK ERNST:   I got a little anxious, you know, I'm not going to lie.   I got a little ahead of myself but I also when I got ahead of myself I tried to put myself back in the present, you know.  
What happened on 17 how I got up and down, that's probably an example of how I got back into the present.   On the tee I wasn't.   Came back with a great up and down.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of that, how about 13, how big was that to make par to keep things going for you?  
DEREK ERNST:   Again, just a bad swing off the tee and just trying to put it back in position over on the other side.   If I left it short, I have an even tougher up and down.   Least there I had an uphill chance.   I'm going to try to make this.   So, I did.  
   
 Q.   You told me yesterday you came into the week with the mindset if I believe it, good things will happen.   How do you continue that on Sunday?  
DEREK ERNST:   Been doing it good.   I have positive affirmations I wrote down in my bag and continue to read those.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT