VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2015
Derek Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How pleased are you with the 2nd round?
DEREK ERNST:   Started the day if you told me I would have shot 1-under I would have been very happy with it.   The wind was picking up.   Saw a couple of scores were getting a little high.   All in all, after everything is said and done, a good day.

Q.   Been a struggle for you of late.   You've made some changes.   Did you expect to be in this position, all things considered?
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah, you know, that's what we strive for everyday.   We're not coming out here to play good.   We're trying to come out here and win a golf tournament.   That's what it's all about. 
I put myself in that frame of mind coming into the week and as you think so you become.   That's what's happening right now.

Q.   What do you tap back into to sort of build that confidence, obviously the win at Wells Fargo?
DEREK ERNST:   What do I think about?   Yeah, it was big.   That was my 9th tournament ever as -- on the PGA TOUR, so, I know it's in there and I'm just trying to search for it again.

Q.   What's been the most frustrating part?
DEREK ERNST:   The results of it, not playing as well as I know I can be.   But, I think it's going to start happening now.   Lot better golf coming.

Q.   Talk about five birdies in a row.   That was pretty sweet?
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah.   Sometimes when you get focused and get in the zone it's fun.   Almost like it's unreal.

Q.   The round, really windy at the beginning of, kind of died down.   Somebody hit the on, off switch.
DEREK ERNST:   Playing the back-9, I think what, 13 it was brutal, 200-something yards into the wind.   Off and on.   Big breeze will pick up.   Kind of comes down.   It's tough. 
Then on the back-9, my front-9, the front-9, my back-9, it was like no wind at all.   Just kind of fun to try to take advantage of some birdies coming.

Q.   The game seems really good right now you being aggressive, going after those tough pin positions.   You feel good about things right now?
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah.   You know, I didn't -- I wasn't perfect but I got some things to work on right now going into the weekend.   All in all I feel really good about my game.

Q.   I wanted to ask you about the scoreboard the all old picture, cropped hair, clean cut.   Now you got the long hair.   Kind of a different look for you.
DEREK ERNST:   I don't know.   I haven't had a haircut in a year.   I don't see anytime to get a haircut, either.

Q.   You have six birdies in a row.
DEREK ERNST:   Yeah, exactly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT