THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2013
Derek Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     Is there any part of you that feels bad?   Obviously, it's an interesting dynamic and unique element to the game when something like that happens and you get in.
DEREK ERNST:   I don't think you should feel bad.   I don't think.   That's kind of a tough question.   You know, you're kind of‑‑ golf is golf.   Everyone's just trying to do their best out here, and whatever falls in the lines, falls in the lines, whether you like it or not.

Q.     What was your first feeling, obviously the elation of winning supersedes everything, but when you realize a guy that you're pretty friendly with ends up getting bounced out of the field, what was your first reaction?
DEREK ERNST:   It's kind of hard because you have mixed feelings.   Like, hey I just won, this is kind of cool.   And then my buddy falls out, and I didn't want him to fall out, but that's why I'm saying I hope he gets in this week still.   I know he was here.   I saw him walking around, so he's right there.   If he gets called in, he's ready to go.

Q.     So you haven't seen or spoken to him yet?
DEREK ERNST:   I haven't seen him, no.

Q.     What has the last week been like for you?
DEREK ERNST:   It's been crazy.   Like this stuff has never happened before.   So, yeah, it's just a little crazy with all the media, for sure.

Q.     Outside of the media, are you still on the emotional high?
DEREK ERNST:   Friends, random people trying to contact me.   Like all these people are like, hey, you've never used Twitter before and now you're using it.   Well, no, I used Twitter a long time ago because for a class in college I had to use it, now everyone's telling me I should use it again.   So I deleted my Facebook because I knew that was going to be ridiculous, so I'm using Twitter instead of Facebook now.   So that's why I answered all those people wondering why I'm using Twitter now.

Q.     What's your follower account at?   Do you keep up with that?
DEREK ERNST:   Before I had like 20 people following me, now I have over 2,300 or something like that in the last three days.

Q.     How many do you have now?
DEREK ERNST:   I don't know.   2,300.

Q.     Derek, what is the most intimidating tee shot you've had‑‑
DEREK ERNST:   What is the what?

Q.     What is the most intimidating tee shot you've had?
DEREK ERNST:   Like the toughest one that I did under pressure?

Q.     Yeah.
DEREK ERNST:   I remember playing an FCWT event against Tyler Rayburn, who had a one‑shot lead on me at Turkey Creek in Lincoln, California.   I remember he hit a huge hook off 18, and I hit a huge hook.   That was like my best tee shot off the tee that I had to deal with the pressure, if that's what you're asking.

Q.     Yeah, I'm talking about in light of the Sunday afternoon (indiscernible), would that be a comparable feeling for you or no?
DEREK ERNST:   I don't know, not yet.   It doesn't feel like it.   Maybe my mind was in a better place, so I didn't really think about it because I didn't think I had a chance to win, really.   I was just playing one shot at a time and whatever happened, happened, and I was just going to be happy‑‑ I was playing well, so I was just going to be happy no matter what happens.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT