U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2001
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What did you think?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  I can't say that on the microphone.  No, I putted like a dog today, period.  That was it, really.  I hit shots you're supposed to hit on Sundays at Opens, I didn't putt good enough.  It's that simple.  Two, 3-putts on the front and missed a short one on 8, and that was the end of me, about.  And 3-putt on 11.  But that's what happens. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  You never get it back on Sunday, it just doesn't come back, it goes away.  I don't know, it was close, though.  I felt good out there.  I mean, I came out, started out perfect, hit all good shots, hit all first six greens, and hit it over -- first five greens, hit it almost over the bleachers on 6, I don't know what happened there.  But weird stuff was going on. 
 
Q.  How did you feel, Rocco?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  It was a little messy in the left hip, but I was okay. 
 
Q.  Did you feel comfortable?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  I felt pretty good.  I just didn't have the putting speed today, I really didn't.  I really didn't have the speed. 
 
Q.  What did you hit on 8?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE: I played a low 2-iron around that bunker, but not far enough right.  It was the right shot, just the wrong direction. 
 
Q.  What's it like playing a championship where Tiger is not a factor?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  You don't even -- it doesn't even -- you don't notice.  Unless he's 30 shots ahead like he is sometimes, then it doesn't matter.  I've never really had a chance to do this well. I've never done this well.  But I don't know what the difference would be, I've never been close in one where he's around.  This year's Masters I was five or six back, but that was just treading water, there.  But it doesn't make a difference, really. 
 
Q.  You go up to number 10, you're one shot back, going into the back 9 in a major.
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  I tried to hit a 3-iron just off the tree line.  I pushed it about five yards, but it didn't bounce, just kind of died and that was dead.  And that's just -- it was the wrong time for that to happen. 
 
Q.  When you got up on the tee you weren't thinking, 9 more holes in a major?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  No, I was thinking first fairway.  There was 9 holes to go, I was trying to hit that fairway, and I couldn't do it. 
 
Q.  Once you got down there you couldn't get it to the green?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  No.  I hit a good shot to get it in the bunker, and left it 12, 15 feet. 
 
11 I hit a good iron, the wind took it.  8-iron from -- it was a tough putt, but not that tough.  Lipped out a chip on 12. Just missed birdie there. 
 
Q.  13, you had a little gust there?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  13 -- 
 
Q.  On the little wedge you put in the bunker?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  I tried to hit it close.  I wasn't trying  to finish 4th like I did, I was just trying to -- 
 
Q.  And 14?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  I tried to hit it close again. 
 
Q.  4-iron?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  What, if anything, did you learn about yourself out there today?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  That I can compete at this level this close.  Like I said, it was just little, teeny, stupid things that killed me today.  But thinking about it, I hit it about 15 feet on 15, and I'm thinking to myself, if I can birdie these last four holes, I may win out right.  Just missed on 15.  I thought I hit a good driver on 16, it was dead, par.  A couple silly little things.  Putt goes in on 15, putt goes in on 17, but it was a tough putt.  All of a sudden I'm 4-under.  I'm right there.  And all of a sudden.  Making the putt on 18 made me very angry, because it put me closer to what I can't have. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  This was really good for me to do.  If I can get in this position again I think I'll do better.  I made a few little mistakes, mostly on the greens.  I hit some bad shots, but everybody did.  You can't really judge that out here.  I hit a bunch of greens in a row on the front, and just a lot of little things I did wrong today that caught up with me, where I really didn't do that wrong the first three days.  Or if I did, I made the putts to make up for it. 
 
Q.  What's your initial reaction, are you disappointed?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  Yeah, I'm disappointed, but I'm a little bit satisfied just by the way I hung in there.  I couldn't do anything today.  I felt good about going out there, though.  I was nervous this morning, got on the first tee, and I was fine, ready to go.  I made some good swings.  I did learn that my swing will work when I need it to most of the time.  That was kind of neat.  And once I didn't make birdie on 16 I really just wanted to get in -- one of the only four guys under par.  I had nothing else to go for. I did.  I did that.  Actually, I did get to 2-under.  But hit two good ones on 18 again.  I could take away way more good things than bad things.  Just a couple of bad things happened. 
 
Q.  Which one will you kick yourself on?
 
ROCCO MEDIATE:  The 3-putt on 3.  It was two and a half feet.  And there was a little depression from an old hole and it caught that depression and spun it out to the right.  I'm 20 feet, hit a good 9-iron out of the cut there.  I don't know what happened there. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT