BUICK OPEN
August 12, 2000
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROCCO MEDIATE:  Today almost started good.  I missed a short one on 1.  Missed a good one on 7. Missed a good par-putt on 8.  I just -- I was cold.  I just didn't make the putts early.  I was behind the 8-ball.  I started to hit it all over the place on the back nine, actually.  I got in with 2-under somehow, so I got the job done.  It wasn't pretty, but who cares.  There is no room for (inaudible) like I was saying, yesterday it was so easy to shoot what I shot; it was just like a walk in the park.  Today was just the opposite.  I just don't think I kept my emotions-- I was a little too excited.  I was very excited to play.  I just let -- first few holes I was good.  As the round went on, I pressed a little bit because I wasn't making any birdies.  I just missed those putts, and luckily I got in somehow.  But it was weird out there. Nobody was out there the last couple of groups, nobody.  Tiger took them all with him.  (laughs) He took them all home with him.  They were all gone.  It was the weirdest final round pairing I have ever seen; not that I have  been in a million of them, but the ones I have been in, there were a lot more people around.  But even 17, there wasn't anyone (inaudible).  It was very weird.  Like a practice round.

Q.  (inaudible) back side?

ROCCO MEDIATE:  There was nothing there. Yeah, exactly, it was weird.  It was a weird day. Definitely.

Q.  "Difficult," is that the word to play with that type of surrounding?

ROCCO MEDIATE:  No, because you try and block that out all.  I rather have way more people myself. But it was definitely -- I mean, I kept looking where did everybody go?

Q.  Eery?

ROCCO MEDIATE:  Yeah, it was -- it was quiet, very quiet.  Few holes, it was okay, but you know, it was weird; just wasn't anybody around; which, that is understandable at times.

Q.  What about tomorrow knowing or supposing got to make a lot of birdies; keeping your emotions under control if you go four holes without one?

ROCCO MEDIATE:  That is the challenge.  I want to go with -- I can't wait 'til I -- because I --  I started to press, like I said, on No. 11 I hit a bad shot in the front -- got it up-and-down.  But still I hit some really good shots next three holes.  15, made bogey, just didn't quite keep myself where I needed to.  Been a while since I have been there. I just wasn't as comfortable as I wanted to be.  I hit a couple of hooks which I do, which I know I know that is going to happen, but only a couple of shots that were bad.  But tomorrow will be a good challenge for me. If I get out and get off to a good start, who knows what is going to happen.  It is going to take me to shoot 4-, 5-, 6-under.  Someone may jump up from 11 and shoot 7-under, there is 18; I am 4 behind.  That could happen.  I don't know what they are going to do with the pins.  I don't know what the weather is going to be like, I don't know.

Q.  Bob Hope for the Midwest?

ROCCO MEDIATE:  Well, much more difficult tee to green golf course.  12, 13, 14, if you can play those holes -- although I haven't birdied 14 yet; there good chances; birdied the other two holes both days.  Right there, two shots there.  If you play the par 5s at all, there is three or four more shots.  If you can survive holes like 15, some of the good holes on the front nine, then you go attack those other  ones.  So that is how you beat the course.  But the course is really attack; just a couple short holes on it, but -- and plus, this year is so weird, I have never really been able to drive on 14.  I drove over 14 today on the back end.  I was in the back rough there.  I was:  What the hell, 302 to the front, and then holes like 16, I am getting to -- I got to (inaudible) -- today I hit it left.  Plus it rained here like eight feet in the last couple of months.  It doesn't even seem like it.  Greens are soft, pretty soft, but the holes are running.  Getting to No. 13 was with a 4-iron today is unheard of from that back tee box.  Slight help - wind maybe five knots.

Q.  Do you prefer situations where you have got to go out there and play hard or --

ROCCO MEDIATE:  Yeah, I have only had one situation in my career that I had a big lead; that was last, whenever, in Phoenix.  It was really weird.  I'd like to have a six-shot lead again, but now that I am two behind or one behind, yeah, I don't -- I know that I have to go out and play a good round tomorrow.  It just challenges you.  If you shoot 70, I am not going to win the tournament.  It's that simple.  In fact, I figure 68 or 7 might have a shot.  Maybe if Chris goes  out and shoots 66 again, you know, I have got to shoot 65 to tie him.  So you know, it is all dictated by what scores are out there. I am going to try and hit every fairway and green again.

Q.  (inaudible)

ROCCO MEDIATE:  I know you can't go out and shoot lollygagging (phonetic) around and make pars all day.  That is what I did the first seven holes today and I didn't take advantage of my birdie putts and that was almost the ending.  I hung in there, though.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT