SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2016
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROCCO MEDIATE: It's going to be fun to be back in a cool position and see what I do.  I had some moments out there where it went a little south, but I covered up with the short game today, which I've been working -- obviously we all do, we all work our butts off on that because we all miss -- but I covered up, made some ridiculously good putts to save, and I made a bunch of birdies again.  I hit a bunch of good shots.  Hit a few loose ones and I covered it up.
Q. How much confidence do you take into the next two days?
ROCCO MEDIATE: I haven't been here in a long time.  I'm looking forward to trying to drive it in the first fairway and see what happens from there.  That's all you can really -- that's all you can really do.  But Jessica, my wife, said, "you have to own this and picture yourself with the trophy," and I'm like, "it's Thursday," but she has a point.  I want to go out there and try to keep going and see what I do.
They're going to be coming and it's going to be fun.  It's going to be a lot of fun.  It's nervy.  It's cool.  I told Martin, I said, "I'm kind of nervous right now."  Not shaky, just kind of feel -- I don't know what the word is, but it's what you want.  And that's -- it's fun.  This is perfect.
I didn't know if it was going to happen like this right now, but ecstatic.  I'm looking forward to whoever I play with tomorrow and whatever happens and whatever the weather brings, I don't care, because it's just a lot of fun.  It's cool.
Q. When was the last time you were in this position?  2008?  In a Major?
ROCCO MEDIATE: Oh, by far, yeah.  Absolutely.  That was kind of the whole ball of wax.  You talk about insane fun, but I mean, very nervy there, too, just trying to get through what you're trying to do.
You find out what your golf swing's worth and what everything else is worth under these conditions.  So it's great.  If it fails, okay, you know what -- if it keeps working, then you're good.
So you just don't -- but these guys, Bernhard's, that's all he does is he what does.  You look up and go, oh, shocking, I mean that's a shocker.  Monty is the same way.  It's like they're so used to it all the time.
I was that way for awhile on the Regular Tour and early, my first year on the Champions Tour.  But since then, I haven't been there.  And it felt good, but it also felt like it's uncomfortable.  That's what you want to feel, uncomfortable.  That's what you want to feel.
Q. What were you thinking about the weather as you were finishing?
ROCCO MEDIATE: Oh, my goodness.  We didn't know.  We were hoping to get finished, because, obviously, you don't want to come back tomorrow.  I don't know what the last time is, but, so then -- obviously, we would do it, but we would much rather be done tonight.
We got lucky, because I don't know if they called them off or not, but it started blowing pretty good there on 8 green and then 9 straight down wind.  Which it was like that yesterday, so.
Q. Obviously didn't affect your final two holes though.
ROCCO MEDIATE: No, I hit some nice shots.
I hit a pretty 8-iron into 8.
And a 5-wood I hit it -- I left an eagle putt on 9 about an inch short, right in the heart, from about 12, 15 feet.
So, but I putted as good as I putted in a long time the last two days, so there's no complaints here.
Q. How much fun are you having this week?
ROCCO MEDIATE: I love it.  This place, it's just evil.  In a good way.  Just really makes you -- if you look at the pin on 5 today?  6?  6.  It wasn't on the green.  It was over there on the right.
And I'm like, it's cool though, but, so you have to play the right shot.  Monty, of course, took it right at it, but I played away from it because that doesn't fit me.
So it's just a great place.  It really shows you the control you have.  That's why Jack built these greens, I'm sure he said, well, let's see how good these guys are.  And so far so good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT