SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2016
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROCCO MEDIATE: I putted great.  I pitched it good, I drove it in most of the fairways.  If I missed it was just a little bit.  My irons were like they used to be, which were, which is nice to see.
Q. Obviously, it's early, but how does it feel to be leading a Major?
ROCCO MEDIATE: It's just great to be playing good.  We got three more days and who knows what's going to happen.  On this golf course anything can happen.  But so far so good.  We'll just try to drive it good and play from there.
Q. A lot of guys put up good numbers, do you think you got the better end of the draw this week?
ROCCO MEDIATE: I don't know.  I don't know what the wind's going to do.  It's a gamble but -- 16 was cooking pretty good.  16 fooled the heck out of me.  But it wasn't brutal.
Q. Did you know you tied Kenny's course record?
ROCCO MEDIATE: I didn't, because I thought par was 72, because I have no idea what the hell's going on.
But I said, okay, because I said to Kenny this morning, I said, you shot 62 here last time?  And then I was talking to him and of course that happens, right?  And he played great.  So did Colin.  He made a bogey or so coming in, but he played great.  Kenny always plays good when I play with him.  He played great.  So it was great.  We had fun.
Q. Can you take us through the eagle on 9?
ROCCO MEDIATE: Hit a good tee shot.  I actually got lucky because it rolled past the pin and stopped, didn't go in the hazard.  And I had a simple, you could say it, but a perfect lie and a simple pitch.  I had a feeling I might make it and it went right in the middle.
Q. How far away were you?
ROCCO MEDIATE: About 20, 25 feet away maybe.  Perfect lie.  So I got lucky there.
Q. That jump started you and you also set the course record for nine holes.
ROCCO MEDIATE: That's cool.  It's always good to do that.  I'm happy about everything.  Just keep doing the same thing and trying to anyway.  I know it's coming, it's just been awhile.  It's been a long time.  I can't wait to keep going.
Q. They announced they're coming back here every other year until 2024.
ROCCO MEDIATE: That's phenomenal.  You look at KitchenAid, that's phenomenal.  We're set through 2024 and that's great.  They're great guys.  I don't know them all, but they do a good job here.  Do a really good job.  Building this golf course, are you kidding me?  It's ridiculous what they did for this community and this area, so.
Q. You mentioned how good the group was, when everyone's playing well and that especially, on that front nine, how much does that, do you guys feed off of that?
ROCCO MEDIATE: Well you can, you do.  You just, everybody's balls are going straight, nothing's going sideways.  It's just fun to play that way.  You just try to -- but you are still doing your own thing, really.  There's no, when guys are playing good and you're starting to play good, it's a lot of fun.  We had a lot of fun.  A lot of laughs.  Monty's nuts.
Q. This is your first week on this course, do you like it?
ROCCO MEDIATE: I do.  You know it's, the funny thing is today, Colin said to me on the putting green, and we were talking a little bit and he goes, you know, the key to this course is fairways, obviously, but pin high or not pin high or short of pin high.
And I'm thinking, that's a hell of a thought.  Because sometimes we just shoot at flags and if you miss, you're dead here.  If you miss in the wrong place.  But if you miss and you miss in the right place, you can play.
So that's what I'm thinking.  I told Martin, I said, pin high would be great or short is fine with me all day.
And then J.D. we were putting yesterday and he actually said something, I've been putting decent, I guess, but he goes, why is your left knee moving on the back stroke?  And I go, what?  And I stopped it from moving.  He put the club in my back of my knee and I'm like, hmm, move it a little way forward and move the top back.  And so I pretty much made them all today.  So J.D. is responsible for that.  It did help.  Because I was just a little motion in the stroke so, it had to help, so.  It was fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT