U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2013
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   We have Rocco Mediate, 4 under for the day, 7 under for the Tournament.  
   
 Q.   Did you go out to be a little more aggressive today?   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   I just wanted to drive in the fairways, which the ones I missed, I missed by a couple, except for 17.   But the other ones were close.   So I drove better and had a lot of good opportunities.   I made some good putts today.   
My three bogeys were three‑putts unfortunately.   The last one, whatever.   It happens, I guess.   Kind of shocked me too.   I feel like I'm still out there putting.   
One of those things.   I didn't really rush ‑‑ I probably did rush it a little bit, actually.   It was good.   I hit two really good shots in there.   The 7 iron was cool.   It was good to feel that again.   It was fun.   It was fun.   
Kenny just went bye‑bye.   I needed to be much lower.   It was good.   It was a good final day.   It was fun to feel that again.   This is my favorite Tournament, whether it's the other Open or our Open, I love it.  
   
 Q.   Nice ovation for you on 18?  
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Fans were amazing this week, fantastic.   Me and Lu had a great time.   Lu is the best.   He's one of my favorite people.   They were screaming all day.   It was great.   It was fun.   
I said to him on one hole, the short 4, 13, I said, it's too bad nobody likes golf around here.   It was good stuff, fantastic.  
   
 Q.   You did get within two.   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Yeah, well.   You just, you know‑‑ where was that at?  
   
 Q.   You birdied 15.   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Yeah, 15.   Well, I knew I was right there.   It was just a matter of I know he's going to still make birdies.   I know he wasn't going to go the other way.   Tried to swing a 6 iron on 16.   I didn't swing it.   It was too pretty, actually.   
I needed to kind of dive in there and get back, just like the shot on 18.   I wanted to swing it back in and use that wind a little bit instead of holding something up against it.   I don't trust the back of that green at all.   Goes crazy back there.   So just missed that one.   
And then not a very good first putt.   Good second putt.   And then 17 was‑‑ I'd have taken a 4 after that horrid tee shot I hit.   Only one I hit bad all day actually.   Scares me.   I can't play it.   Can't do anything on 17.  
   
 Q.   You said on Wednesday, if you were 8 under on Sunday, you'd be happy.   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   I still lost.  
   
 Q.   Kenny just too good?   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Obviously, yeah.   He gets on these crazy runs.   He did it on the regular Tour.   Now he's doing it here.   It's like who are you?   It's amazing.   He doesn't back off.   He's a great Champion.   I'm glad he won this one.   I mean, it's good.   He should win one of these, as good as he plays.   
He won last week too.   So back‑to‑back.   See if they can't stop him at Birkdale somehow.   If he's even going.   I don't know if he's going.  
   
 Q.   You talked earlier in the week about you've playing mediocre.   Did this kind of get yougoing a little bit?   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Yeah, it helped.   I struggled all week off the tee.   I couldn't make my ball go in the fairway.   I like the look off these tees.   It wasn't like I didn't like it.  
Today, I was better.   I talked to Jimmy Ballard last night.   Actually texted a little bit.   Just a little too far to the right.   Johnny Miller said some nice things to me this morning, kind of got me going.   You're a great driver.   Come on.   I went out and drove really good.   I really did.   The ones I missed were smidgen, which happens here.   It was good.  
I made more putts this week.   The only three‑putts I had were today.   Yeah.   And I had some tough two‑putts, I did.   But 18, just like I said, it's one of those things that really kind of hurts a little, but I played good coming in.   
I just made one mistake on‑‑ I really hit good shots.   Well, except for the tee shot on 17, I was pleased.  
   
 Q.   Good week overall?   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Fantastic week.   Everybody was great.   It's a good Open course, obviously.   So I don't know where you go next year.   Oak Tree, I think.   That will be cool.   That's a great place too.  
   
 Q.   [ No microphone ].   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Yeah, I mean, you always think you're there.   Just depends on what you can do after that.   And like I said, I tried to swing that ball in on 16.   But like I said, I didn't quite hook it enough.   So that's why it stayed so short.  
   
 Q.   You were going for birdie there?   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Yeah, I figured I could rip it back in there with that wind and give myself 15 or something close.   Just didn't quite toast it.  
   
 Q.   Rocco, Kenny didn't win a regular Major.   What do you think it does to his reputation as a golfer to be winning them out here?   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   It's still the hardest test we have and our biggest Tournament.   The ones he came close to‑‑ you know, to be that close, I know the feeling.   It's awful not to‑‑ to win, but you're there, so something good's happening.   Something great's happening, actually, when you're that close.   He's been there a few times.  
The fact that he didn't win, it's hard.   Make a mistake and see ya.   It happens.   I mean, it just happens.  
   
 Q.   Good week?   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Yeah, fantastic.  
   
 Q.   Is this a course and a city that you think you and the pros would like to come back again, either every year or for another U.S. Open?   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Absolutely, yeah.   We love it here.  
   
 Q.   What did you like the most?   
ROCCO MEDIATE:   It was good.   I stayed with the Gerbers this week.   We had a ball.   Good restaurants, fans are crazy, Corey's here.   How much better can it get?   
I thought he was going to come up and hit me.   I'm done.   I'll be happy to go.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT