U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2013
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Next up on flash, 2 under par, 68, Rocco Mediate. 
ROCCO MEDIATE:   No, yes, it wasn't my fault.   See, what else?   I don't know.   What else?

Q.   Talk, maybe generalize, first of all, how the day went?
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Can't generalize.

Q.   Sum up?
ROCCO MEDIATE:   The golf course is perfect.   It's right in front of you.   It's firming up, which is good.   The rough is not any fun, and that's what it's supposed to be.   And the greens are fine.   It's good stuff.   They're not like lightning yet, but I'm sure they'll keep turning the screw a little bit, as the week goes.   Like we hope.

Q.   You handled it okay? 
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Handled it okay.   I took lot of chances today off the tee with drivers.   I lost a few of those battles.   Because they're wide enough to where I like to hit driver anyway.   If I'd have laid back, I might have had the same score, but I had a couple yards off the fairway.   It's not very good.   It's not supposed to be good. 
But maybe tomorrow I'll switch a couple of those clubs to 3 wood.   Depends on the wind.   Nothing else.   It's just a U.S. Open.   It's awesome.   It's tough.

Q.   If you're going to say there's a stretch out there you've got to be careful of or play really well during it‑‑
ROCCO MEDIATE:   1 to 18.   1 to 18.   You don't have to be careful.   That's where you'll get killed, if you be careful.   You've got to let go. 
Holes like 10 today, that's a great par 4.   But in the practice rounds‑‑ and last week I came out on Tuesday‑‑ it was a driver and a hybrid.   So all of a sudden it's, you know, it's warm and the wind's downwind.   It's a driver, 7 iron today.   Duffy was right.   We both hit 7 irons. 
If you'd have made me a bet, I would have said how much do you want to bet it will never happen?   It's different.   It's starting to firm up and get like U.S. Opens get.   That's good.   I'd much rather it be hard than soft.
The greens are holding good.   They're starting to crust up.   They're going to get firm on the weekend.   It should be good.   It will be crazy.   Some of those greens are tough.

Q.   Physically, how are you feeling? 
ROCCO MEDIATE:   I'm good.   I've got no excuses.   It's all my fault now.

Q.   I saw you on 1 you were lying your back? 
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Just stretching a little bit.   Sometimes I get a little tight.   I'm fine.

Q.   I think you said yesterday that 8 under would be an awesome score. 
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Fantastic.

Q.   So you're on pace? 
ROCCO MEDIATE:   Yeah, I guess I would take three more 2 unders.   I would take my chances.   But I wish it was‑‑ well, maybe you don't wish it would be that easy, but it would be nice to shoot those scores and see what happens.   It all depends.   You never know. 
It's going to get harder, and it's going to get faster.   It's not supposed to rain, which is good.   We'll see what happens.   Fairways are starting to firm up nice, which brings more rough in.   So it's all good.   No issues.

Q.   Just real quickly, one shot?
ROCCO MEDIATE:   God, there were so many.   What did I do good?   What was good was I had about a ten‑footer on the last for par.   Tried to squeeze it up into the‑‑ I hit a driver.   I tried to squeeze it up the right side, and I missed it by a yard, and it kind of hit in the lip and stayed there.   Didn't plug, but I got the wedge, and I hit it up short of the green.   Not a real good pitch up the hill.   In.   That was a good one.   It's a good one to finish on, yeah.
But like I said, it's so hard to tell because‑‑ never mind. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT