PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 13, 2009
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Rocco Mediate, thanks for spending a few minutes with us here. Fresh off your announcing --  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Fresh off, yeah.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Why don't you just give us some thoughts on your round. You put yourself right up on the leaderboard going into the weekend.  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Yeah. It was good. I was good in spots, and then coming in I hit some really loose iron shots. I hit some bad ones. And I got up-and-down on a couple bunkers and saved the day just a little bit.   
 I know what the problem is, don't worry, though. I'll fix that later on. It was pretty solid day. Front nine I played really solid. I 3-putted 11, but other than that, it looks good. Things are progressing nicely. I can say that.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Conditions between yesterday and today, any changes?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Pretty similar. We had a little squall there. I mean it was coming down sideways there on three and four, which made four play really hard. But we all have to deal with it.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Okay. Questions?   
  
  Q. You said the shots on three and four, is the wind imposing much of a challenge outside of that squall-like conditions?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Oh, it's still moving. It's moving 10, 15, which is normal. And it's pretty much the same, so you know what you're going to face every hole and you know where you're going to hit it.   
 There's plenty of room to hit your ball around here, but a few mistakes. These flags are tough, and you gotta pay attention. You gotta have some control out there or you're going to get ripped.  
  
  Q. What was the highlight of your play today?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: I didn't really didn't get off to -- I wanted to get in the hunt more. I'm feeling well and healthy again, so it's kind of fun to do that.   
 So I wanted to get off to a good start, and I 3-putted my second hole. And then I played really solid my front nine. I hit it on the green on 18 in two, which I couldn't believe that. But I had a 12-foot eagle putt, but I birdied, 17, 18, 15 and then 2, and made a couple mistakes coming in, made two bogeys and a birdie. But that's all right. I'll take it. It's something to work on.  
  
  Q. We're really happy to have you among the players, and the crowds are like really happy you're down here. What does it mean for you to be at a different city than you're normally at, down in Puerto Rico, having from the similar background and going from the?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: It's really good. I'm in awe. It's good the whole way around. The hotel is spectacular. It's getting more spectacular as we speak. Mr. [Jorge] Diaz has done an unbelievable job. I finally met him this week. Flew the helicopter, too, by the way. So I'm a helicopter pilot. Scarey stuff, by the way.   
 The golf course is outstanding to play a tournament on. It allows for the wind, but it's a tough second-shot golf course, I think.  
 The people are remarkable. It's great. Everything is perfect, and I hope it keeps going and we can get this tournament non-opposite an event, because I think all the guys love it. I mean I've heard nothing but positive stuff from everybody. All the guys say, this place is cool, it's a great golf course. It's fun. But it'll challenge us, obviously.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Well, we're used to playing in this stuff. It was just brutal, because it came in on the third fairway, and it was nasty. It was for about two holes. No big deal. You gotta deal with it. Everybody does on certain holes. I would rather it come on an easier hole, like seven and eight, to deal with that stuff, but that's just what you get when you're here. Any type of these tropical places you're going to get rain here, so no big deal.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Thank you. Thank you.  
  
  Q. Welcome to Puerto Rico.   
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Can you tell a little bit about the weather, the conditions, especially the humidity? We've got a very high humidity. Is it easy for you? And who's going to finish in the first two or three on Sunday?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Who knows. I don't know if I could even bet. We've got two more days, and you never know what it's going to take.   
 But the weather, I love the humidity. It's good for me. I like it hot. I'd rather be hot than cold, and the rain it's a pain, but you gotta deal with it. I didn't bring my umbrella today, which is kind of a problem. But it's fine. We all have to deal with the same thing. So you just have to get through it and deal with it, but it's all good, all good stuff here, guys.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Any more questions? All right, Rocco, thanks.   
 ROCCO MEDIATE: No problem.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT