FBR OPEN
January 31, 2009
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 4-under on a Saturday afternoon, that's a man's work.   
 ROCCO MEDIATE: It was good. It was fun out there. We got it going on the back nine, and that can happen here. You've just got to hang in there until something good happens.  
  
  Q. You made a nice up-and-down on the 18th to finish the day with a nice par putt.   
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Yeah, it's always good. Anyway, I didn't hit a very good second and I had to make about a four- or five-footer.  
  
  Q. It appeared that you were limping out there but you say the back is fine?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Yeah, the back is good. I just have a little meniscus problem as they say. I didn't think I was going to be able to play today, and it went fine.  
  
  Q. You of course endeared yourself to the entire nation last year at the U.S. Open. You and John Feinstein teamed up with a book that should come out right before the national championship?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Yeah, it's probably coming out that week. It's called, "Are you kidding me?" It makes sense, actually.  
  
  Q. Is that kind of because you became a working man's player and truly a fan favorite?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Yeah, it's just the story of things that led up to this week. It's kind of weird when you're reading a book that's about you. It's such an honor that John even wanted to do it. It's pretty cool.  
  
  Q. Tell me a little bit about the shirt. Is that black and gold by coincidence?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: No, it's actually blue and gold. I have a problem with the Super Bowl this week because "Whis" is a good friend of mine and we played some golf together, and then obviously I'm from Pittsburgh. So I don't know what to say. I don't know who's going to win. I'm not going to be upset whoever wins.  
  
  Q. You tell me you honestly do not have a favorite in the Super Bowl, someone that you're going to root for?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Not really.  
  
  Q. No Steeler paraphernalia tomorrow?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: No, I'm just going to let them go and do their own thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT