AT&T NATIONAL
July 6, 2008
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Were you thinking about the British today when you went out trying to make the field?
 ROCCO MEDIATE: No, you're just trying to hit the fairway the first day on go. I knew if I played a good round, I had a good shot, but there's no time for that, no. You're just trying to get around this really good golf course.

 Q. Pleased with how you played today?
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Absolutely. I can't complain about the week at all. First day I was a little tired and felt, you know, lazy, lackadaisical, but I'm pleased. 

 Q. Was that pretty much it, turning things around was just getting a bad day out of your system?
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Just rest. I don't know how I've done any of this the last two weeks, I really don't. It's been an amazing trip. We'll have to do all that again. 

 Q. You have the biggest gallery here, and a couple of months ago you wouldn't have expected this --
 ROCCO MEDIATE: What are you talking about? What do you mean? Yeah, you're right, it's been different. Like I say it's what Tiger brings and it's the power that this man has in the game. 
 Bottom line is I still finished runner-up in the U.S. Open but it's just a matter of the match that it was or the day that it was. It was the most special day I had and I lost the golf tournament. It's hard to explain. The people loved it and they were great to both of us that Sunday and Monday and it wasn't just me. They were great to both of us. It's just been an unbelievable trip and I'm trying to do the best I can. You have to respect what he did because he's not here to say anything; he's fixing his knee. I'm trying to remind people, it was the greatest day of my life, but he beat me, you have to remember that. 
 Guy said to me last week at the 17th hole of the Buick Open, it was quiet and just before I putted he goes, "Tiger who" and I said, "You mean, 2008 U.S. Open Champion? Did you forget about that already?" Because he's not around. It's just respect. Some people have said some things that I'm very angry about and it's just, like I said, it was unbelievable, what he did on one leg. I can't believe, a guy with a broken leg, seriously, and it was great, and hopefully he'll be fine, I'm sure he'll be fine.

 Q. How different is it for you to feel that you're like followed now?
 ROCCO MEDIATE: It's cool. It's neat. It's what you really want, and I've always enjoyed that part, so it makes you play harder and am I going to change anything? No. Keep playing the same way. But it's helped me. The last two weeks, there's no way I would have performed like that without that. For me I played well because I was on fumes, and I can't wait for this week off. Hopefully I'll be going to Britain next week.

 Q. Considering Tiger's absence this week, how different this year as opposed to last year? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Every tournament is different no matter what anybody says. It's still a great event and it's his event and it's great coming down to the wire but it's a different game. Totally different. 

 Q. Any chance of making the field at the British?
 ROCCO MEDIATE: I've done all I can and I can't do anymore.

 Q. Do you think your chances are good?
 ROCCO MEDIATE: I don't know how I stand. I was second on the list going into this week. I moved up -- I probably helped myself a little bit today but just depends on what the other guys do. Once against, there's nothing else I can do. 

 Q. If you don't make it, what will you do that week?
 ROCCO MEDIATE: I'll probably go to Milwaukee more than likely. 

 Q. You'll be there with Kenny Perry. 
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Exactly. 

 Q. Are you looking forward to this week off, just to recuperate? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Yeah, I'm going to put it away for a while and do nothing for a few days. 

 Q. With the win here and a strong finish, you want him on the team absolutely. What do you know about him as a player? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE: The Ryder Cup, it's just a match, and you just go and play your game, your partner or somebody you're buddies with, it will be great, and he'll have everybody laughing which will be neat. Anthony will be fine. He's tremendous and he's just good. His golf swing is really good and I think we've seen that today. Looks like he's leading right now. For 23, he's remarkable. 

 Q. Tiger, that makes it different to begin with, and now looking it could be you or Anthony Kim; we could have a Ryder Cup Team that people are saying, who are some of these. 
 ROCCO MEDIATE: It's okay. If you're on that team, you can say who are these guys all you want but those guys on the team can really play and if it's a little different atmosphere it's not going to be the same without Tiger and obviously no team is stronger without him. But, you know, it's just go do it. I don't get -- I want to play on the team really bad but I tell you what, I'm going to have a blast if I do. You won't see me not smiling, seriously. So who knows, maybe it will be better this year. Zinger will take care of it. 

 Q. So you go back home and have a week off, then you go to Milwaukee, the next two months, things will be different --
 ROCCO MEDIATE: I'm just going to do my thing. I still want to try to win obviously, and I'd love to go to Kapalua next year and get back to some of the majors I want to get back to. That's all you can really do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT