U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2008
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Rocco, when you look back on today what do you think you'll remember most about it?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Hanging in there with this man. He's so hard to beat. Obviously. I when I throw three at him, he throws out a three in the middle of the green, he's unreal. But I'm very, obviously I would have loved to have won, and I don't know what else to say.   
 It was a great, it was a great day. They wanted a show, they got one. I was three down through 10 I thought it was going to be over quick. I kept hanging around. He made a few mistakes and bang. 19 holes.  
  
  Q. Everywhere you went today you remembered Rocco, Rocco, Rocco, how did that make you feel?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: It was unbelievable. Yeah, this is huge for me. This is a putt I made on 18, just to stay here again, I handled that. I was nervous as a cat, but I handled it. So who knows. Maybe next time I'll go one better.  
  
  Q. Did it ever cross your mind at all that you might never have another chance like this 18 holes with Tiger, Monday playoff?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Absolutely. I -- the putt I had on 18 a few moments ago I said to myself you've waited your whole life for it. Don't lag it. Just give it speed and I just yanked it a touch. A little nervy. But I can't really complain, I did the best I could.  
  
  Q. You didn't win the U.S. Open, but what will this week do for your career?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: Hopefully I get to play in it again and a few other things. And it just showed me that I still can compete, obviously. And I want to keep competing.  
  
  Q. Is that the most important thing you learned about your self?  
 ROCCO MEDIATE: I just I never quit. I never quit. And I've been beaten down a few times and came back and I got, I got what I wanted, I got a chance to beat the best player in the world and I came up just a touch short.   
 But I think I had him a little scared once, which was great. He just said, great fight, to me and that makes it a little better, I think.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT