U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2008
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Full Audio Interview 
   
RAND JERRIS: We're now joined by Rocco Mediate. Rocco, you  
played with incredible heart against the No. 1 player in the  
world. You must be proud of yourself. 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: Yeah, it was good. I threw everything I had, everything I had. He had to burn the last to stay in it again and he did it. He's remarkable. But I hung -- I came out there in the middle, was 3 back, 3-down after 10, and I really didn't play that poorly. 
  I  
missed a few putts. I misread one on 9. And then all of a  
sudden it turned a little bit. I thought I was going to win  
after I -- that putt went in on 15, I said, if I can keep hitting good  
shot after good shot, which I pretty much did, I'm going to win this  
golf tournament. I tried to hit a low hook on 18, just a little  
too much. I had a putt at it. I missed it, ad but I had  
the putt. 
   
RAND JERRIS: Looks like you drew a fairly tough lie on the first  
bunker. 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: I've had trouble with it this week. I've -- how many times have we played the hole? Six? Oh, my God. I put it in there half the time we played it. My eye was missing on that hole again. 
  I  
caught a harsh lie on that one again. It would have been better  
if I did that this morning, but I didn't. I hit a good putt to  
stay, but those 30 footers aren't easy to make for most of us. 
   
   
Q. How long do you think that putt was on 15. You said you  
had a chance to win. What was sort of the emotion going to the  
16th tee? The crowd was getting into it. You have three  
holes left and you're leading.  
  ROCCO MEDIATE: Yeah, I talked to Zinger yesterday, Paul Azinger the other day, and he said before the 4th round, he said, don't be surprised or don't be -- what the heck did he say exactly -- when you regain the lead, don't be shocked. 
   
And then in the playoff I thought the same thing, when you get the  
lead, don't be shocked, run with it, you know what I mean? All  
of a sudden I'm 3-down then I go to 1-up in five or six holes.  
But I was ready for it. I kept trying to make him play.  
And I pretty much did.  
   
Like I said I hit -- almost hit a great shot on 16, just needed to  
carry it a little more, I hit a hard 4-iron up there.  
   
And 17 I caught that funny lie, just a foot off the fairway. But  
he had to do something to stay alive. He did, obviously, because  
-- so I just tried to make him play it out. I thought I made  
birdie on 16 and 17, even though they were long putts, they all looked  
good going up there. Obviously I needed one more. 
   
   
Q. How long was the putt on 15, do you think? 
   
ROCCO MEDIATE: Probably 35 feet. A pretty 5-iron in  
there. He had an unbelievable shot where he was from. I  
couldn't see him, but it was unreal.  
   
   
Q. The crowd obviously seemed to be very much in your  
favor. I wonder what your reaction to the crowd was. Also,  
did you try and keep Tiger a little bit loose going in and what's with  
the red shirt (laughter)? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: Well, I didn't think he'd wear one today. I knew he wore it yesterday, so I decided last night. We just talked a little bit here and there a few times. I can tell that sometimes he doesn't want to bother, so I don't go over and bother him. We talked about a few things over the day. It was great. It was fun. 
   
The fans were really good with the both of us. They were  
screaming both our names. It was unreal. It was the most  
amazing tournament I've ever been involved in, obviously. But  
fan-wise it's the best I've ever seen, for sure. 
   
   
Q. When did you know -- when did you realize that 7 was going to  
be the first sudden death hole? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: This morning. They told us if you went to 19 holes -- we went, we're not going to go to 19 holes. And we went to 19 holes. Go figure. 
   
   
Q. It's just a matter of some holes don't set up for some  
players? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: It's just -- I broke my driver on Saturday morning when I got here. I pulled it -- actually it was broken in the airplane. And I got the new one made and it just isn't quite the same as the other one. So it gave me a few surprises. It seemed to draw a little more than I wanted to a few times, not blaming the club, but it was a little different, I tried to do something different, just to hold it back up in the wind and I flipped it over. Some holes just don't fit your eye, and that's one of the ones that bothers me a little bit. 
   
   
Q. I'm not sure, this may be difficult to answer, but with  
regard to Tiger, obviously this is his 14th major, given what he over  
came this week with the knee, obviously having outlasted you in the  
playoff, could you categorize where this might -- in your eyes, be in  
terms of his Majors, because you've been in and around all of  
them. Could this be maybe his most remarkable? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: Well, yeah, because -- God, I can't say it. That's too funny (laughter). I lost my train of thought. When he took nine or ten weeks off after having the surgery at Augusta and came here without playing all that time and won the golf tournament, I don't know what else you can say about that. 
   
I've come back from a lot of injuries, too, to try to come back and  
play, obviously not at that level, but I understand what he went  
through. I'm not surprised. Nothing he does surprises me.  
 
   
But a lot of the U.S. playoffs it's not really that good of  
golf. It's usually one guy plays okay, and the other guy plays  
really not that good. It seems today -- it was just fun to see  
what the -- to turn the tables a little bit. I turned the table  
a little bit.  
   
14 was a neat hole. It was neat. I don't know if he hit 3- 
wood or if I didn't hit 3-wood, I don't know if I made him pull that  
club. He's the best, I'm just trying to do the best I can.  
I hit a lot of good shots and a lot of times I had to do it.  
   
It was a blast. I wasn't nearly as nervous as I thought I would  
be. I was a little nervous early, just a little shaky. And  
then all of a sudden it got better and better and I got more  
comfortable. Coming in I felt great, because you've got to trust  
what you do or else -- it's just great. 
   
   
Q. Last year the U.S. Open at Oakmont in your hometown of  
Pittsburg, try and reflect back on where you were there. You  
didn't make the field. You were obviously hurt. And now  
where you are and what an incredible sort of ride it's been? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: Yeah, truthfully, yeah, I'm disappointed a little that I didn't beat him. Just disappointed. Not upset. But I'm obviously a little beat up right now. 
   
But the only thing I take from this is I gave him the best that I had  
and it wasn't quite good enough, but it almost was. It wasn't  
like I got my butt handed to me today. I didn't want that  
handed. And I didn't. I think that he obviously --  
obviously I know he obviously wanted to win, but I think he enjoyed  
the crap out of this competition, and I certainly did. And I  
know that I still can do this stuff and I want to try that again  
sometime, somewhere. 
   
   
Q. There's three playoff formats in the Majors, essentially you  
played two of them today.  
   
ROCCO MEDIATE: Right. 
   
   
Q. Which one would you prefer, the four holer or the one holer  
in the heat of the moment or wait -- 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: I like, for our National Open or National Championship, I like the 18 holes. I do. I know some people don't, but too bad. I think it's a great system, because it's such a huge event. 
   
After 18 holes, fine, sudden death is fine. I guess they used to  
go another 18 holes, correct? And then I would have died before  
that happened. Maybe I would have been better if we had a 36  
hole playoff. No, anyway, I think it's great the way it is. 
   
   
Q. You talk about the combination of pride and fun factor and  
how that came into play for you today? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: Oh, you know, playing against him, especially heads up like this, it's going to be a hard battle. He's not going to go away. He's not going to hit -- like standing there on the 18th fairway, he's not going to hit his ball in the water. He's more than likely not going to miss the green to the right. He's going to hit a beautiful shot. How do you counter that is to play the best you can. 
   
And if anybody in this world goes up against Tiger when he's at his  
best, they are going to lose, it's just that simple. I don't  
care who it is. Was he at his best this week? He was  
pretty good. Obviously he's hurt. But there's where he's  
his best, always (indicating.) 
 It wasn't a walk in the park. I didn't want  
it to be a walk in the park. It could have been. I'm a  
little bit tired today, I'm a little old. He's got me by 14  
years. He's got me by a thousand yards off the tee. And I  
kept hanging in there, hanging in there, hanging in there. When  
he needed that drive on 18 to go about 340, he got it. If he  
misses that fairway it's a battle with wedges, and he has to make a 10- 
footer to win or tie. But he just had a two-putt. It's  
like I told Matt, I said, this guy is impossible. If he wins you  
can't get him. I thought I had him a while. I kept hitting  
good shot after good shot after good shot and so did he. 
   
Earlier he made some unbelievable par putts and birdie putts.  
He's who he is. There's nothing else to say. 
   
   
Q. Watching you play it looked like you would be much more  
comfortable playing that in about three hours.  
   
ROCCO MEDIATE: It was great.  
   
   
Q. It looked to me like on the second hole Tiger started slowing  
down, and I've never seen him back off so many shots, have you ever  
seen him back off so many shots? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: I think it was just because I was intimidating him a little early and he had to deal with that stuff (laughter). 
   
The wind is funny here. Today was totally different than the  
other four days. It switched a bunch of times, it was  
weird. It wasn't nearly as strong at times. He just does  
-- like on 17, he stood there for a while, but he got it right.  
He wasn't going to hit that shot until he was ready, which is fine. 
   
   
Q. Sorry if you already addressed this one. I was  
wondering if you could explain that look on your face when he's  
playing out of the bunker on the 9th fairway as you guys are playing  
the 15th hole.  
  ROCCO MEDIATE: He was in the bunker? I had no idea where he was. I said to Matt, I knew I was away, so I hit my 5-wood on the green. And as soon as I heard the ball I said, don't worry, just look at the flag, that's probably where it was going. And that's right where it went. 
   
You look back, and go, what are you doing over there? Most guys  
would say to themselves, if I put this ball on the green, he's  
probably making bogey over there. He almost made birdie.  
It doesn't work with him. It's everybody else but him.  
   
Like I said, when I talk about golf, he doesn't count  
(laughter.) He's not normal. He's way above everything.  
   
RAND JERRIS: Thank you very much. Congratulations.  
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT