U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2008
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Full Audio Interview 
   
ROCCO MEDIATE: Once again I bet you're surprised to see me here  
again. 
   
   
Q. You stood here yesterday and you said your goal was to play  
with Tiger.  
  ROCCO MEDIATE: Right. Sometimes you got to be careful what you wish for, I guess. It was great. How much better can this get? No, I knew he would make that putt. That's what he does. I was trying to beat him on my putt. My 35- footer. I just didn't quite get it out there. But it's going to be unbelievable. I can't believe I'm even in this situation at all. It's great. 
   
   
Q. You said you left everything of yourself out there? 
   
ROCCO MEDIATE: It's all out there. I'll pick it all up and  
put the bag together tonight I hope. I hope. We'll see. 
   
   
Q. What did you have planned for Monday? 
   
ROCCO MEDIATE: I was supposed to do an outing on Tuesday in  
Toronto. I don't think that's going to be happening right now.  
   
   
Q. You went for it on 14, Tiger didn't.  
   
(Inaudible.) 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: It just looked good it me. My caddie -- I said, I like the look. If I hit this little 3 we had and it's not a simple bunker shot but it's a good angle. I hooked it a little bit too much and hit a really good bunker shot and hit a crappy drive off 15. But anyway, I made good putts on 16 and 17 just to be here. What can you do? 
   
   
Q. You've been so excited all week? 
   
ROCCO MEDIATE: Oh my God, yeah.  
   
   
Q. And to get that close, how do you get the excitement back for  
tomorrow? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: I'm playing against a monster tomorrow morning. I got to get excited to play. You I get to play against the best player that ever played. Whatever happens, happens. I'm happy that I'm here and I will give it everything I have and see what we do. 
   
   
Q. You got an unbelievable attitude, there's got to be millions  
pulling for you? 
   
ROCCO MEDIATE: Absolutely. Well, I'm going to need their  
support, I think.  
   
(Laughter.)  
   
   
Q. Talk about the belt buckle, is there kind of a peaceful,  
quiet center going into tomorrow or are you just jazzed? 
   
ROCCO MEDIATE: I might put something like a Metallica or AC/DC  
to get all nasty and mean. No, it's going to be blast. 
   
   
Q. Are you living the dream? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: This week has been a total dream. Heck, I missed eight of the first ten cuts I played this year on TOUR. Come on. Come on. Seriously. So I get to come back next year, I get to go back to Augusta next year. I get to do all kinds of things. Who cares. But I'm looking forward to tomorrow. You don't get this opportunity. 
   
   
Q. Is there anything that comes off the win, given that Tiger's  
playing on, obviously, a terribly bum knee? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: I don't care how it happened. I'm glad -- you know what, like I said, I'm glad -- there was rumors, not rumors, but I heard people say, is he going to play golf today. That man will crawl around if he has to play. 
   
Like I said at the beginning of the week, you want him there.  
You want him there. Would I have wanted to make one more birdie? 
 Sure, I would like to win out right, but I didn't. And  
it's, I, I don't know what else to say it's just going to be a great  
day and certainly anything can happen.  
   
   
Q. How badly do you want to win tomorrow? 
  ROCCO MEDIATE: Fairly. 
   
(Laughter.) Fairly. It would be the story of my life, I  
can tell you that.  
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT