SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 29, 2007
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ROCCO MEDIATE:  I played really solid today.  I guess I lost my line on 18.  I was looking in the wrong place, and I hit it off a hair and see you later.  
 I just -- I'm not sure the wind was straight, a little bit more cross and I just made a bad swing.  But it was because of me, not my back, I mean. 

 Q.  You talked a lot about that. 
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I couldn't be happier.  It was disappointing, hit a beautiful second drive, good 8-iron.  I almost made a 5.  
 What are you going to do?  10, 12 drives in the fairway, go on.  That's all I can say. 

 Q.  You mentioned there was a crosswind today.  Did you expect the wind to change? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Just moved a tad.  But just enough to where I only saw the golf course once or twice.  Pretty much didn't take my time and think about it.  I just thought -- I started on the same line but drew a little bit and knocked it straight down.  
 It was crap.  I can't say much about it.  Believe it or not, I played nicely today.  Very pleased.  I'm very pleased. 

 Q.  Fifteen years ago you double the last hole, what would have been your attitude? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I would have been devastated.  I can't believe I did that. 

 Q.  When you say -- you said you don't care anymore? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I could care less.  Decent score, and if you shoot 3-under, I would have taken it.  Little visual mistake and it cost me.  Didn't quite know enough what I was looking at.  It's alright.  Played very solid.  Things are fine. 

 Q.  Is it going to be -- keep the pedal to the metal? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Looks like it.  I had a lot of putts that I just missed today, too.  But, yeah, it's going to be -- unless the weather changes, which it could.  I guess it's supposed to get shitty tomorrow.  I don't know. 
 You just deal with it.  Trust me.  I'm happy to play golf.  I make a double here or there, I'm fine.  Not another double. 

 Q.  Was a bad drive on 18? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I was looking in the wrong place.  I thought I could go down the left center.  The wind was more cross today, and I just played it straight downwind yesterday.  I made a mistake, a real mental mistake.  I can't complain about it.  I won't help. 

 Q.  How was the wind today? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Little different direction a couple holes.  Turned a little bit but nothing bad, wasn't that strong.  18 is strong because it's out there. 

 Q.  It's actually more right now? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Yeah.  With the front coming.  Good golf course.  Perfect condition.  Fairways were perfect.  Rough is just fine.  Hit it in the rough a couple times.  It wasn't like hitting it on the green.  Pin placements on the greens make it interesting.  Much better than if it was 3 feet high. 

 Q.  You think you're doing the right thing? 
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Absolutely doing the right thing.  Absolutely doing the right thing.  I wish it was firmer but can't do that because it rains so much.  Firm would be really okay.  Catch the weather next year when it's firm.  I can't complain. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT