ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 18, 2007
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Just with the leaderboard and the difficulty of the golf course, did it feel at all like a mini-major?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Oh, I was thinking about that all day.  I only drove it -- I missed one fairway, the last one unfortunately.  That was the best I hit over the ball, it's just going to be a hard, nasty little hook out there and didn't hook.  Stayed to the right.  It definitely, the greens are getting -- No. 15 is dead.  It doesn't have a green.  It's just brown now.  So they are getting very firm and very crusty very fast.   
  
  Q.  The big names on the leaderboard, the atmosphere?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  It's great.  I'm just happy to be around.   
  
  Q.  While you were on the course, you and Vijay and Sergio were the only guys out there under par.   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  It's hard.  I was just trying to make all pars.  I wasn't even thinking about making birdies.  I didn't care.  You know, fairways and greens, fairways and greens and I was doing that.   
 I missed a couple fairways but they were just barely, you know.  I had to try to get a little aggressive, but you really can't out here.  There's nowhere to hit the ball.  With the clubs I'm hitting in -- maybe Vijay is hitting it so much further, he's hitting a lot shorter irons, but I can't go at some of these flags.   
  
  Q.  What kind of bonus was 6?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  That was cool because -- inaudible -- I had a horrible lie and I just let the toe do its work and it went in.  I was lucky.  I was just trying to make a four.  Then I hit a real good shot on 9 which was another crazy downwind hard green and made that.  So I was very much thinking about trying to birdie like -- when I turned I was thinking more about birdies but pins were so tough, just hard to get close to them.   
  
  Q.  I know you were trying to win but a little while goes by and you step back and look, will there be relief that your year is made --   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Ridiculous satisfaction.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I found this week that it works; my golf swing does work.  I putted fairly well, I did everything as good as I could this week, just about except for a couple of shots yesterday.  This is huge.   
  
  Q.  Now you can sort of play --   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I still have to call and ask for exemptions all the time, but I'll do it if I have to.  I'll play the Monday Pro-Am, do the pairing parties, I enjoy it.  People have been good to me for 22 years, so I try to give a little bit back.   
  
  Q.  What will your schedule be like now?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I have no idea.  I don't even know what's going to happen today.   
  
  Q.  Do you usually go to Houston?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I haven't been to the new course at Houston.  I'm thinking of going.  We'll see how it goes.   
  
  Q.  That tee shot on 17 --   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Oh, my God, that one, I hit it exactly how I wanted to hit it.  And you know, Marty said "Don't go at the flag" and I said, yeah, whatever, because I'm trying to make a 2 which is not the smartest move.  But if I make 2, I might win the golf tournament who, knows.  Just hit it about as clean as I could hit it.  Hit it a foot short of perfect.   
  
  Q.  What did you hit there?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  3-iron.  The other guys are coming in with fours and fives but I'm old.   
  
  Q.  So you can't pick up birdies coming down the stretch but you step up to 18 --   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I was trying to hit a hard, running hook to get a 6- or 7-iron on it to go to that flagstick, and I just blocked it.  Still makes me mad because I'm swinging too good to hit that crap.   
  
  Q.  A lot of guys birdied 18 to finish off pretty good rounds, Friday, Saturday, and even today and everything, so 18 is not really a killer hole this weekend.   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Well, yesterday and today it was harder than the first two days because it was into the wind.  Still, with the equipment now, you can hit 4-, 5-, 6-iron in there or 7-iron into the wind; I'm hitting 4-iron, 3-wood sometimes.   
  
  Q.  Are you feeding off the crowd?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Oh, I love it here, tremendous crowds.  I know a lot of people here.  It's just fun.  18 was cool.   
  
  Q.  Why do you think they like you so much?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I have no idea.  If they knew me, they definitely wouldn't like me.   
 I kind of went to school down the street at Lakeland and I've been coming here for 22 years, and I try to say hello a lot and talk and smile and stuff.   
  
  Q.  If Vijay winds up winning this, either you or him would have been a blow for the old guys either way.   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  He's won enough.  He's going to win this one, too.  But no, I'm way ahead of schedule right now, believe me, when I tell you after the last couple of years, way ahead of schedule.  I'm ahead of schedule.   
  
  Q.  Is there a piece of you that will think if yesterday had even been 73 --   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  No.  I might have shot 75, you just never know.  I just knew I could still win the golf tournament after that birdie on 18 yesterday.  And I was right, a couple more things, I might have won the golf tournament.  But I can't look at it that way.  I don't have time.   
  
  Q.  Best you've hit the ball since, when?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  This whole -- since Los Angeles is when it really turned and everything felt just remarkably well.  I have never felt this good, and I don't remember the last time I felt this good, maybe ever, which makes me a lot happier because when I was feeling bad, it's hard to be happy, geez.   
 I'm ecstatic.  I can't blame one shot in the last month on my body and I love that.   
  
  Q.  I know you were going to try anyway, but does this give you encouragement as far as qualifying for Oakmont?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Oh, yeah, absolutely.  I'm going to try to get in the easy way and get in Money List or World Rankings, I have a shot at that if I keep playing.  And that's fun to say because sometimes after a good week, I wasn't able to play for three weeks.  I feel great right now.   
  
  Q.  Was that any kind of motivation this year to make sure you got to Oakmont?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  I really just wanted to feel better and if I feel better, I'll get there.  If I feel better I'll get there.   
  
  Q.  So you're saying feeling better is more important to you than how you finish right now?   
 ROCCO MEDIATE:  Absolutely.  Because now I can keep playing.  I've always said, if I'm healthy, I can make a good living out here and I can still win golf tournaments, and I'm healthy.  So hopefully I can win.  I played good, but hopefully I can win soon, because I know I can.  It's just a matter of doing it.  Time will tell.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT