SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2016
Rocco Mediate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You still having fun out there?  
ROCCO MEDIATE: Oh, God, it was a blast.  Today was an absolute blast.  It just felt great.  Just aiming and shooting again.  I haven't done it for a long time.  First two days were obviously pretty good.  But today was just different.  It was more, obviously it's the third round and everybody's gunning, I just know I didn't shoot under par, but I'm ecstatic on the way things went.   
 Q.  You have the lead going into the final round of a Major what's that like?  
ROCCO MEDIATE: Well, I don't think I ever had the lead in a Major, have I?  I was tied for the lead after four rounds of a Major, but hopefully I can do one better than I did last time I was in this position.   
 Q.  And you play with Colin, two-time defending champion.  
ROCCO MEDIATE: We got to stop him.  He can't do three of these.  He's a good buddy, we have a blast and he will be all over it tomorrow.  So I got to be on my game tomorrow.   
 Q.  How much did the wind affect you?  
ROCCO MEDIATE: It was hard.  It's supposed to be hard.  It's one of our biggest, might be our biggest event.  And it's, it was supposed to be nasty and it was.  You get your self in some funny spots and you're toast.  I did that a few times today.  I made some bogeys, which that's okay, at least I didn't have to think about after the second hole today anymore.   
(Laughter.)   
 Q.  You called this course evil in a good way.  How much more evil was it?  
ROCCO MEDIATE: Today was nasty because of the wind.  The wind kicked up all day today, I thought.  And it was from the same direction though, so at least we kind of know what it's doing.  But it will swirl a little bit, but everybody has to deal with it.   
 Q.  How fortunate would you call number 8 for you today?  
ROCCO MEDIATE: Yeah, 8, funny thing is I killed that tee shot, too, and I was kind of surprised I hit it a little to the right there.  But yeah, I was fine.  Not fine, but I could hit it.  Two feet left or right, I can't hit it.  So sometimes that's good.  I hit a really nice bunker shot and took advantage of the break.  So, that's going to happen out here.   
I hit a lousy one on 17.  Divot on 16, too.  But 17 I just made a lousy swing and it was in no man's land over there and then I make a 30-footer or something.  Come on.  Who knows?  Maybe that's the secret.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
ROCCO MEDIATE: Today I was less -- I promise you, I was less nervous than I was the first two days.  So far a lot of good shots today.  I was ecstatic on some of the shots today that I had.  Solid.   
 Q.  What's kind of the mentality you're going to take into the final day?  
ROCCO MEDIATE: First fairway.  Put it in the first fairway and move forward.  That's all you can really do.  There's no planning and no, there's no like, at any point you think connect the dot type things.  It's just first fairway and move on.  See what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT