IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2017
Brian Peavy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You see on that play, seemed like you just pulled it out.
BRIAN PEAVY: Ten other guys on the field.  They did their job and my job was to fill my gap and my number was called, and I answered.
Q. Is that kind of what happened?  You just ran into him and just ripped it straight from him?
BRIAN PEAVY: Yeah, that's basically what happened.
Q. Coach Campbell said he felt that kind of epitomized this team, where they had the three first downs, could have given up the touchdown and moved on.  Do you feel you guys have fought even when teams get in that situation?
BRIAN PEAVY: Oh, yeah.  You can see it all season long looking at the film.  Our teams think they have it their way, but we refuse to just give up.  So we use the motto, one step, one breath.  Just play another down.
Q. How are you guys able to stay poised in that situation where they're moving the ball a little bit and getting to that point?  What kinds of conversations do you have on the field as they're kind of moving?
BRIAN PEAVY: I would say it's less on the field and more of just experience.  Early games in the season, we kind of -- I wouldn't say shut it down, but, I mean, we learned from our mistakes so it's kind of just engraved in us, and that's one thing Coach Heacock and Coach Campbell emphasize and I think that's one thing we execute.
Q. I know Marcel had back-to-back weeks of big picks.  This week it was you.  Is that something you guys take pride in, being the defense that deliver kind of the dagger, almost?
BRIAN PEAVY: Oh, yeah.  If the offense don't score, then we win the game.  That's kind of how we look at it.  Our offense is doing a tremendous job.  So at the end of the day, defense have to get a stop.  Like I said, it's 11 guys out there and we're playing togehter, I feel like we're one of the best in the country at doing so.
Q. What allowed you guys to settle in after the first quarter, especially?
BRIAN PEAVY, JR.: What was that?
Q. What allowed you guys to settle in after the first quarter?  I think the second quarter, you gave up 43 yards and it seemed to kind of get better as the game went.
BRIAN PEAVY: Just getting back to our tradition and what we believe defense is.  Like you said, the first half, guys who kind of just everywhere, we just kind of settled down and played poised and the outcome shows it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT