ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 5, 2017
Filip Krajinovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. SOCK/F. Krajinovic
5-7, 6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously disappointing for you.  Where do you think the match turned it and got away from you, at which point?
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: I'm disappointed little bit.  I lost energy, I lost a physical moment in the match.
First game of the second set I shouldn't lose that easy.  Then he started to play better and better and I didn't serve well today.
I was not aggressive enough.  I have to be against him.  I have to stay on the line.  I didn't do it today.
But it was a great week for me.  Well done for him.
Q. What was the highlight of the week according to you, the best moment?
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: It's amazing week with a lot of good wins.  From quallies I beat so many good guys, better ranking than me.  So it's all positive coming home, having holidays finally after playing so many matches this year.
And I'm sad I didn't finish it stronger but that's the tennis.  Somebody has to win and he was better today.
Q. So I think you're going to go up to No. 33, which considering all the injuries you had and everything, must be great for you.  How do you see the rest of your career going now?  Do you think you'll be under more pressure now because the expectation level is high?
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: I know that I will work even more right now.  That's for sure.  Pressure is part of the sport.  Everybody has pressure in life.  Of course, I am going to have more.  People will expect more from me right now.  They see I can do it.
But if I want to be better, I have to handle that.  So I will work on that also.  So I hope next year will be better.
Q. You say you hope next year will be better.  Do you then want to target good shows in the Grand Slams after tasting all the excitement of this?
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: Sure.  I have to play well in Grand Slams.  It's a lot of the points there also.  But I will focus week by week and try to win some tournaments on ATPs also.  So I will go step by step, do good preparation for the next year, and I hope all the best for that.
Q. It's difficult to imagine but how much does coming through the qualifiers take out of you physically?  Because then you step up to higher levels.  How much did that take out of you?
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: Take a lot, I would say.  You know, I had two extra matches, tough matches.  Played three sets, second round of quallies.  Played three sets Mahut.  Played three sets Isner.
So especially me it was also a lot of emotions here.  But when I look back, I only can be happy.
Q. Well, it's a question then do you feel you belong on this level rather than at the challenges now?  This is your scenario?
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: Yeah, I always believe I can do it.  I can play those guys, you know.  But I had to play challenges because I didn't have a ranking.  But now I will practice with those guys and play with those guys and I think I can be dangerous.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT