ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 4, 2017
Filip Krajinovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. KRAJINOVIC/J. Isner   
6-4, 6-7, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Which is the first things that passed through your mind after to reach the final?  
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: The emotions are amazing, big.  It was a tough mental match.  He was serving really well, he was playing aggressive.  I knew that that's going to happen.   
But when I serve for the match, my hand was shaking.  It was tough to control the emotions, but I knew I have to stay aggressive all the way to the end.  I did it, and best day in my life.   
But the tournament is not over yet.  I'll prepare for tomorrow and then we'll see.   
 Q.  So you had tough injuries in your young career already but your coach said that mentally you have changed the approach recently and that's why you're at this level.  Can you explain a little bit what you have changed?  
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: Yeah.  I suffer a lot.  I really through my career had big injuries.  But I stay calm.  I knew that one day everything will come back.  I didn't believe it's going to happen this year, this tournament.  Coming from quallies, you know, but it's amazing feeling.  Now I'm top 40 in the world.  I didn't expect that also.  My goal was -- because I started the year at 250, now I'm 30-something.  The goal was to be top hundred at the end.   
And now, I'm just happy and emotions are big.   
 Q.  For those who don't know so much about your career, you had I think two bones removed from your wrist and also a right shoulder operation.  Can you talk a bit about those and how frustrating that was for you?  
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: That was, yeah, I was so -- that happened five, six, seven years ago when I had first surgery for my shoulder.  I was coming from juniors to turning pro.  I had semifinal of the ATP right after that.  That happened to me and I was out for two years for that.  I couldn't play.   
And then I was starting to play better and better and I break top hundred a couple years ago and then all of a sudden they saw that I have an extra bone in my wrist.  So I have to take care of that also.   
It was hard.  It was mentally really tough because, you know, getting older and older, all sponsors, they said no to me anymore, you know, because I was a good junior and then all of a sudden when I needed to do something I didn't do anything.   
So it was hard for me, but my family stayed with me and now -- yeah.   
 Q.  (Question inaudible.)  
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: Everything right hand.   
 Q.  Yesterday you thought you had nothing to lose actually and it's still the same, will be still the same for tomorrow?  
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: Sure.  You know, I already did what I need to do, but, of course, I'm going to step tomorrow full, give my best like I did every tournament.   
It's just another match and, you know, I'm playing against Jack Sock.  I know him from juniors.  He's a great player.  I think it's going to be an interesting match.   
So I will give everything what I have to finish the year strong.   
 Q.  During the tough moments in your career with your injuries, did you receive any encouragement and support from Novak Djokovic?  
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: Yeah.  We are very close friends.  All people from Davis Cup, we are very good off the court.  He was helping me right after the injuries.  He give me a coach.  I was next to him all the time, and even now when I'm doing well he's next to me.  We are always talking and he's big support.  He's our hero back in Serbia.   
It's honor to be next to him.  And, of course, I'm looking forward to play some also doubles next year with him.   
 Q.  Could you talk about your relation with your coach Popovic, how you met him and how you work with him?  
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: Yeah, Popovic is a great coach.  He's from Serbia also.  We start, like, four months ago and it's going unbelievable.  He had a good relationship with Karlovic also.  He was doing really well also.   
So I knew him since I was ten years old and I told him, If you are free, let me know.  I will take you right away.  So he called me right after he finished with Karlovic and now we are together.   
 Q.  You must be glad to play against Jack Sock because I think you going to be encouraged by the public tomorrow like today.  The public was behind you.  And if it had been Benneteau --  
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: Yeah, of course.  People in Paris have been amazing with me.  I did not expect that all people were cheering for me.  So I think amazing atmosphere, especially third set tiebreak.  It's just moment in my life and I will never forget.   
So also thanks to all people who come to watch and I hope it's going to be same tomorrow.   
 Q.  Before this week it seems that your best was on clay.  Do you consider yourself a clay court player or all-around player?  
FILIP KRAJINOVIC: Yeah.  I like to be on clay, but at the same time I have also the results on the hard court.  Maybe lately because of wrist or because of everything I was playing on the clay, it's easier for me.  But at the same time I also like to play on hard court and, you know, biggest results now in my life is on hard court.   
I would say fast hard courts because here they told me it was slow, but they change the surface and now I would say it's fast.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT