ATP CUP
February 2, 2021
Novak Djokovic
Filip Krajinovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. We're here without the captain because he's very busy this week, about to play in the Melbourne Summer Series himself.  We have the winning team here.  Novak, tell us a little bit about the deciding doubles, what you think was the key to the win in the end.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Filip Krajinovic was the key.  The way he played today is phenomenal.  He came out very solid returning.  He found his serve, great rhythm.  Just played some really key shots in the second set when we needed it the most.
We were fighting.  I think we were close to close out the second set earlier.  We had some three no-ads, I think.  I took them all and was unfortunately unsuccessful all three attempts.
Credit to Milos and Denis for serving big both in singles and doubles.  It's just so difficult to play somebody that serves as well as these guys serve.
We managed to find the right shots, the right return, the right position in the court when we needed it most.  It was exciting.  We don't play doubles, Filip and I much.  Neither does Dusan.  We were singles specialists.  In these kind of competitions, the doubles point is equally as valuable as the singles one.
This is a great win for us, huge wind in the sails for the next one.
Q. How are you feeling about playing in front of crowds again?
FILIP KRAJINOVIC:   It's really nice to see people around.  Today was a lot of Serbian people.  It's always nice.  We miss a lot crowd, and hopefully the situation will be better and better and we can enjoy like we did years ago.
Q. When you were out there today, was there any sort of different feeling at all or did it just feel like you were home?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it felt like home definitely a few days ago when I stepped on the Rod Laver Arena for the first practice.
I definitely have a love affair with that court.  Over the years I've been blessed to experience lots of success.  Each year that I come back, I think I'm even more confident and even more comfortable being on the Rod Laver Arena.
It was different this time.  Obviously playing in the ATP Cup for the first time on the Rod Laver Arena and not being in Australian Open but being of some other competition, which is of course the biggest team competition we have on the ATP Tour.  Representing the country is always a huge honor.
It was different mostly because of the fact you have your corner, you have your coach.  Coaching is allowed.  You have your captain, your fellow team players that are cheering you on.  That was something that I really enjoyed.  I did enjoy it last year.  Every time we get to have this competitive team weeks, I really look forward to that because of the atmosphere on and off the court.
Q. Have you fine-tuned the Incredible Hulk pose?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   The Incredible Hulk (laughter)?
No, no, obviously the celebration was a huge relief, as well.  It was so close.  Literally one or two shots decided winner of today's doubles.  We just felt we were solid, we fought.  We were there.  We were focused.  We kind of pushed them to the limit.  In the end we prevailed.
Q. The crowd, go outside of Croatia, outside of Serbia, that whole area, the crowds for you guys, for the Serbian players, are they anything like Australia that you find anywhere else in the world?  Are they the most passionate?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   You're talking about the Serbian crowd here in Australia?
Q. Yes.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   One of the most passionate Serbian crowds we get to experience around the world, for sure.  It's so far away from their native land.  They feel, and we also feel, this is kind of a unique opportunity to maybe once a year, once in a few years, have best tennis players in the world representing Serbia far from home in a big competition.
Of course, it's a pleasure to see them in such big numbers.  Whenever they can, they show up.  Last year it was amazing.  That was probably the best support outside of Belgrade that we ever had.  It was amazing.  Sydney, phenomenal.  We are very grateful for that.
We need that.  In this kind of competition, it's necessary.
Q. Novak, the fact that there's a group of younger players who people are looking at, wondering who might be the next to reach a Grand Slam final or win one.  Can you think back to your early days, what do you think for you was the key to taking that next step, making it all the way to a Grand Slam final for the first time, then winning one?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, first of all, I got to say it was a long-anticipated arrival of a new Grand Slam champion, which is Dominic Thiem, other than three, four, five of us that have been fortunate to dominate the slams in the last 15 years.
It's great for the sport that we have new Grand Slam champions.  We have new successful young players that are showing the courage and boldness, coming into the biggest stadiums in sport, willing to take on the biggest challenge in facing especially the three of us, fighting for the biggest title.
There are a few of them that are very close.  They have a huge potential.  Obviously there's still a lot of time ahead of them.  One of them is obviously Tsitsipas.  You have Zverev, Shapovalov as well.  Already established top-10 players, next to Dominic, of course.  You have Berrettini, so forth.
You have a lot of players.  I think the future of tennis is in good hands, without a doubt.  I know how it feels working your way up to the men's tennis world, trying to clinch the first Grand Slam title.  It's a paramount climbing Mt. Everest kind of experience until you do it.  Then when you reach that, when you achieve such a great achievement, then of course there's a huge kind of burden and monkey off your back.  After that, you're entering a new era of your career.
I'm sure that these guys already have plenty of quality in their work and experience and motivation to get out there and win big titles.  Rafa, Roger and myself are going to make sure that doesn't happen for another 10 years at least (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT