PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 20, 2016
Derek Dowrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We had talked a lot, and I know that you guys are not immune to seeing the type of conversation surrounding the offensive line the past couple of years, but now that you seem to be moving forward and progressing as a unit, what specifically can you say about that progression?  
DEREK DOWREY: I think it's just time playing together.  A lot of us have been through this the last couple of years and I think we've been getting better steadily, but I think now it's starting to show on the field a little bit more.  But I think that just comes with experience with each other.   
 Q.  What would you say now that Jordan said you guys have been progressing and improving, but what do you say you still need to work on?  
DEREK DOWREY: It's never a finished product.  So I think we need to work on everything.  No one's perfect whether it's in pass protection, run blocking, communication between each other, to the quarterback.  There's really nothing that we can't work on more at this point.   
 Q.  Going to the run blocking, how much emphasis have you put on during practice of getting to the second level?  I noticed on Saquon's touchdown run last weekend, I think Ryan Bates got that block to open that up.  Is that something you need to spend a lot of time on during practice?  
DEREK DOWREY: It's always a big emphasis.  I think we think about it as a progression.  You've got to take care of level one first, but level two is also a big priority for us.  Because we think if we can get our backs into some space, they can do some special things.   
I think what you saw on that play, Bates made a great block, got the guy on the ground, gave Saquon enough room to make the next guy miss, and that's our job.   
 Q.  Is it me or is your stance lower than everyone else?  Have you ever heard that?  
DEREK DOWREY: I have, yeah.  Some guys will tease me a little bit about my stance.  I don't know.  It's just where I'm comfortable.  That's really all I can say.  Maybe it's because I have short arms so I have to get lower to be able to touch the ground.  I don't know what it is, but it's just where I'm comfortable.   
 Q.  What can you tell us about Connor McGovern?  We've seen him in here a little bit, but we haven't been able to talk to him since he's got here.  What's his progression like and how are you helping him along?  
DEREK DOWREY: Connor has a bright future here.  I very firmly believe that.  Not a lot of guys can be a true freshman and step on the field.  I know he had a spring to get going.  But if I were in his situation, I wouldn't be able to do what he's doing.  Very talented guy, smart guy, picking things up.  Definitely my role is to help him progress as much as he can.   
Obviously, I mean, I've been here for a while.  I've been with this team for a longer time than he has, so I'm trying to get him ready to maximize every snap he gets.   
 Q.  Talk about what you guys are going into this week starting the Big Ten schedule and Michigan?  Talk about your thoughts on that?  
DEREK DOWREY: Yeah, Big Ten schedule is very important, obviously.  But I think it's the mindset of this coaching staff, this team that, I mean, every game's important.  Last week was important, even though it wasn't a Big Ten game.  So just the fact that it's the Big Ten season means it counts toward your overall record and your conference record, but to us it's just another game.  We're going to go out there and prepare like we do every week like it's the most important game because the next game is the most important.   
 Q.  We haven't spoken to him yet, but I'm curious, Sterling Jenkins seems like he has a really unique personality and he's prosecute pretty outspoken.  What is he like?  I can see you smiling right now, so that must be accurate, right?  
DEREK DOWREY: Yeah, yeah, Sterling's a great guy.  He's a little goofy sometimes with the O-line.  You've got to get to know him a little bit to understand his goofiness.  Because like when I first met him, I didn't know how to interpret the things he was doing, things he was saying.  But now he's just having fun.  He's a really good guy.  I really like having him on the offensive line.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
DEREK DOWREY: No, nothing specifically.  You've just got to get to know him.  And then he's a really funny guy.  Yeah, that's basically it.   
 Q.  The veterans on this team have been through a lot together.  How much does your heart go out to Nyeem and what he's dealing with at this point?  Obviously tough break for him.  
DEREK DOWREY: Yeah, I love Nyeem.  Ever since I met him in recruiting when I was still in high school.  I mean, I personally can't imagine what he's going through.  But I know if there is somebody who can get through this, get past it, it will be him.   
I mean, he's an amazing athlete, amazing competitor, a great person, great teammate.  I mean, I wish him the best.  But I know he doesn't need that.  He's going to go get it done.   
 Q.  A player we're trying to learn a little more about is Ryan Bates.  He's obviously stepped in there pretty quickly for you guys.  Where do you think he is in his development and how do you help to continue to make him progress?  
DEREK DOWREY: Bates is another guy who I think has a bright future.  Red-shirt freshman who is playing well already.  We're really proud of him and how he's kind of stepped up when we've needed him.   
But as far as where he is in his progression, I can't really say.  I mean, right now he's come a long way in a short amount of time relatively speaking.  You know, who knows where his ceiling is.  But to the mindset of the offensive line that you're never good enough, so no matter how well he's playing, he can always play better.  So we'll see how far that takes him in his time here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT