NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2009
John Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How hard was the wait for you?   
 JOHN MOORE: You know what, it wasn't too hard. Just to be here with my family is a tremendous honor, and whether that's sixth or 20th, whatever. Wherever I go, I'm happy.   
 I don't know, just to be part of the Columbus Blue Jackets, I'm tremendously honored.   
  
  Q. Did they call you? Did you know they were going to pick you?  
 JOHN MOORE: No, I actually turned off my cell phone ask gave it to my mom. I didn't want to be that guy on the cell phone. And my parents were saying that, you don't want to be that guy on your cell phone.   
  
  Q. When you look at their team, you know what their needs are, how do you fit into this organization?  
 JOHN MOORE: Well, I think Columbus can definitely use a puck-moving defensemen and power play struggled a little last year and that's something I can come in and fill that void as a puck moving defensemen and hopefully chip in on the power play as well.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.  
 JOHN MOORE: I can't say right now. I'm 50/50. Looking forward to sitting down with Mr. Howson and discussing my options.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you are NHL ready?   
 JOHN MOORE: I don't know, I just have to work as hard as I can over the summer here and for the rest of my life and hopefully I'll be -- when the opportunity presents itself, I will be physically ready for the challenge.   
  
  Q.   
 JOHN MOORE: I'm incredibly fortunate to take the ice every day for two years with a guy that played in the NHL and with Eddy Olchuk (ph) and Steve Smith and guys like that, so in that regard I've been very lucky to just learn the came from guys that played at the highest level and pick up things that that he practice in the NHL.   
  
  Q. Could you make similar growth this off-season?   
 JOHN MOORE: Yeah, I think I have a couple more inches in me. So let's hope, and put on a couple pounds and just trying to get big exercise stronger.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT