LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 16, 2015
Sung-hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was different for you today?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think it was a bit different yesterday in that sometimes it was very difficult to read some of the putting lines.  So I think I missed a couple of putts that I could have made.  So otherwise, that's kind of lingering on my mind at the moment.   
 Q.  Again today, the group, you were with the long hitters.  How would you describe their play and how was it different from your partners yesterday?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I actually did not know they were very long hitters but after the tee shot at the first hole, I noticed that they were hitting the ball as far as I was.  So I thought looks could be deceiving because they didn't seem like they long hitters but they were hitting quite long.   
 Q.  So yesterday, you were carded a 10-under and today you carded 2-over.  So I'm curious to know, going into today, how did you make such a high record today?  Did that add pressure to your game today?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think it would be a lie to say that I didn't feel any pressure because of the record that I had set yesterday.  But as I mentioned yesterday, I was very satisfied with my play yesterday, and I did, as I also mentioned earlier, expect one of the days to be a bit rough or not go my way.  So I'm trying to get over it today.   
 Q.  You mentioned earlier that the putting lines were not as visible as yesterday, and so that you missed some of those short putts.  Was it simply that, or was it something in your game today in terms of your putting technique that you might want to work on later today?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I don't think there was anything that went awry with my putting technique or skill.  I have a tendency to not get the stroke that I want when I can't really read the putting line very clearly.  I think I'm pretty tired today, so instead of practicing after this, I will just go back and relax a bit.   
 Q.  So was there a time before this tournament that you had a 12-stroke difference between the first round and the second round?  And also, I understand that your best was a 65.  In that competition and that case, what was your score in the next round of that competition?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think there was a time where there was a big-stroke difference, but I think the stroke difference between today and yesterday is especially big because I did such a good job yesterday.  And I can't remember the score for the day after I hit a 65.  I honestly can't remember.  It's been too long.  So I can't remember.   
I think my official best is 7-under and my personal best is 8-under.  So I'm actually quite pleased.  Yesterday I was able to break my personal record, as well.   
 Q.  So what is your strategy going in tomorrow?  Are you going to be as aggressive as you have been?  Are you going to be a little bit defensive tomorrow?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think everybody thinks that I'm aggressive at every hole but I tend to be very strategic.  So when conditions are right and there are good opportunities, that's when I really go in for the kill.   
At the last hole, I thought that a two-on strategy would work.  I did make some misses there and it didn't work but I have absolutely no regrets.  So tomorrow, as today, I'm going to be strategic about being aggressive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT