LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 14, 2016
Sung-hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Today looks like you earned a lot of shots.  How do you think you did today?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I was a little worried because I didn't do as well as I had expected in the first round, and I thought that I need to do get used to the green as fast as I can to improve my scores.   
I think today I was better on the green, and that's why I did better today.   
 Q.  Today you grabbed nine birdies.  What was different on the course today?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think I definitely adjusted to the speed of the green.  Yesterday during the first round I wasn't reading the distance quite right, and so the ball would hit the cup and fall out.   
I think today I really concentrated on that and I did better today.   
 Q.  It didn't seem like in the early rounds that your driver shots were particularly strong.  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Actually, it was really my iron shots.  I was a bit frustrated that it wasn't going as I had thought.  But afterwards, I improved my timing and rhythm.   
 Q.  You're a long hitter.  How many holes do you use a pitching wedge?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think I used my longer clubs for about three holes, and on 9 I used the 58-degree wedge.   
 Q.  The 5th hole you drove a shot over the hazard, and on the 6th you used a driver in a dogleg hole to the right.  What was the distance?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think it was 240 meters for hole No. 5, and for hole No. 6 it was 240 to 250 meters.   
 Q.  You lost three strokes on the 8th hole yesterday.  It seems like you struggle with certain holes.  Also, there is a large crowd out there today; did that impact your game?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think the double bogey on 8 yesterday really weighed on my mind.  At the time my tee shot was strong but I didn't do well, and so I think I do have a tendency where I don't do as well in holes that -- I don't do well earlier.  I have to get over that to improve my game.  I hope I do better on the 8 tomorrow.   
As for the gallery, I was really surprised because there were so many.  And actually, they make my game I think more fun.   
 Q.  Last year at this championship on the first day you scored 10-under, and today you grabbed nine birdies.  How do you adapt to games on the LPGA?  How satisfied are you with this game?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I don't think I have a particular strategy for this course, but I think it's a course that's definitely advantageous for long hitters.  The green this year is firmer than last year, which helps my wedge shots.   
I think I'm about 90% satisfied with my game today.   
 Q.  Did good memories of your first round here impact your game today?  You mentioned yesterday that your spins weren't quite where you wanted them.  How was it today?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Definitely good memories of last year are in my mind.  I thought that there would be a day I would really be able to lower my score, and that was why I was able to do so well today.   
The green was firm today so I can't say the spinning issue was solved, but I was hitting the fairways so it was easier to target the pins.   
 Q.  Seems that you don't do so well in the first rounds if you take a week off.  Do you think that has to do with your driver shots?  The other players have mentioned the fairway is very firm.  What is your take on that?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I also thought that perhaps my score yesterday wasn't as expected because I took a week off.  I think I wasn't reading the greens as well, so today I was really trying to read the greens well.   
I don't think the fairway is that firm, so that didn't really help my game.   
 Q.  Last year you did well here and also well at the U.S.  Women's Open this year.  What has changed?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think my game really started to improve starting the second half of the last year.  Much hasn't changed, but when I'm playing I'm much more relaxed, and this is really helping my scores.   
I always thought that the short game was a little bit of a weak link.  I've been focusing on improving my short game, so I think I my overall performance has improved.   
 Q.  At the U.S. Women's Open you were working with an American caddie and you used notes and sign language to communicate with each other.  Was that inconvenient at all, and what factors are you using in your decision regarding whether you will go to the LPGA or not?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Most of the terminology for golf is English, so there was no big inconvenience.  We weren't able to have any specific conversations, but that wasn't a big inconvenience.   
I think I'm considering two main factors when it comes to whether I'm going to go to the LPGA.  That's the change in environment and the language.  I think language is an important factor, so I need to really prepare.   
 Q.  A lot has changed in the past year.  Aside from your game, you have a lot more fans.  I heard that there were some negotiations underway regarding your sponsor or management contract.  I think these external factors can affect a players play and their personality.  How are you responding to this?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: There has been a lot of change compared to last year.  I have a lot more fans and they really support me whether I'm doing good or not.  I'm really thankful.  They have made my game much more fun and interesting.   
But I have to day I'm not involved at all with the other stuff.  My parents have complete authority, so it doesn't really impact my play.   
 Q.  You have been on the field with Chun In-gee at the Evian Championship, and you were in the same group today and yesterday.  What would you say about her?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think I got a similar question at to the Evian Championship.  Above all, I feel she's a player under the most extremely difficult situations while still save pars.  It's quite interesting to see her save par.  She's good with these really difficult approach shots as well.  This has helped me as a player.  She's really good.   
 Q.  Do you have any people you have sought advice from regarding the LPGA?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: When I asked In Gee as we played today, they seem to think that I should just come because everything somehow works out.   
In Gee's manager is American and she has told me that it has been helpful to have an American manager.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT