TIM HORTONS NHL HERITAGE CLASSIC
October 22, 2016
Dale Hawerchuk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








WINNIPEG - 6, EDMONTON - 5
Q. Dale, I know it's been -- this has been a bit of a labor of love for you but a lot of work.  You have a day job.  How do you feel here?  It's over now.  Turned out to be, by all accounts, a pretty good success with the fans.  How do you feel?
DALE HAWERCHUK: Well, so far, you know, the week's been phenomenal.  I've been out here just about all week.  A lot of the guys came in early.
And like I said all along, this group, this era, they lived here year-round most of them.  And they were part of the Manitoba community here.
Not only in Winnipeg.  We traveled all through the province, whether it was slow pitch or charity golf events.  So there's a closeness for this group.  And I think today was pretty special for them.
Q. How competitive was that game?
DALE HAWERCHUK: Well, we talked, we wanted to sort of keep it close.  Then when we got up 4-1, they were like, when are we keeping it close?
I said, well, you guys are built for comebacks, and of course they did.  The way it finished, I'm so happy for our fans.  And the reception they gave everybody, all these players deserve it.  Heart and soul -- they put their heart and soul into -- whether it was Winnipeg or Edmonton.
But our fans got what they wanted today.  And I'm happy for them.
Q. Could you just touch on -- I talked to Ellett and especially Mr. Ford.  He was very emotional about what this meant to him and how he hopes it goes forward.  How important is it, now that the alumni for the Jets has started up again, to continue it going forward?
DALE HAWERCHUK: Oh, it will go forward.  I had a lot of talks with Mark, and this is a time -- what a great week to introduce it.  Mark and I have talked at length about it.  And we're moving forward with it.
I think for any great franchise, you should have a strong alumni.  And I can see better days ahead here for the alumni in Winnipeg, for the Jets for sure.
Q. You had a brief encounter with Teemu in one training camp just after he was drafted but never really played with him.  So describe that experience today for you?
DALE HAWERCHUK: Well, Teemu I guess was 18 at the time.  And we had some good chemistry.  I think it was Moncton, New Brunswick, our training camp, and I remember John Ferguson said, I hate to break the bad news to you but Teemu has to go back and do Army duty.
So things changed over time.  I think he broke his leg over there, so he didn't come over for a while.  By that time I was in Buffalo.
So when I was in Moncton, New Brunswick I had no idea I would never play with him until I was 53 years old.  But it was fun.  He's a great person, great athlete, and looks like he can still play.
Q. Just want to look ahead to tomorrow and get your thoughts on how Mark Scheifle has developed as a player, a player that we'll be seeing on the ice tomorrow?
DALE HAWERCHUK: You're talking -- a big Mark Scheifle fan.  I've had the pleasure to coach him for three years in Junior.  And you could be having a bad day at the rink and when he walked in he made you smile.  He loves coming to the rink.  He loves working hard on and off the ice.  It became infectious with the teammates.  He was a real leader in that department.
And it served him well.  And you could see his development as he was coming along.  And it just keeps going.  I had the pleasure to watch him again here the other night.
Every time I come out here and watch the Winnipeg Jets play, he's one of the best players on the ice.  So kudos to him.
MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT