NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: LOUISVILLE
March 23, 2019
Sam Duehring
Asia Durr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you look back on yesterday, what was the biggest take away from that game that you all feel good about going into this one?
ASIA DURR: Our defense was great, especially starting off in the first quarter.  I think we held them to four points, I'm not sure for how long, but that was a good stretch where we played great D.
We need to carry that over because they have a great team with great posts and guards.  That's going to be a challenge for us, and we have to look forward to that.
SAM FUEHRING: We also tried to box out more because we know that Michigan is going to give us a hard time on the glass.
Q. What stands out most about Michigan when you look at them on film, anything that you guys really need to key in on?
ASIA DURR: I think it's just like how long they are and how hard they play.  They play so hard and for the whole game, and also, their posts.  They are big and they play hard.  They play strong, and when they get two feet in the paint, it's almost like they are going to make it every single time.
So that really stood out to us, how their posts play.  There's not too many posts that are that big that can score like that.  That's going to be another challenge for us, and we have to be focused for that.
SAM FUEHRING: Yeah, they work hard and they are very aggressive.  They push the ball, and their transition is really good, getting it inside to the post.
Q. Both of you had your send-offs a couple weeks ago.  I guess you all stuck around for probably at least 40 minutes after the game with fans.  Now that you're coming to your real, final home game, does it kind of sink in, what everything has meant to you being here?  Is there any kind of emotion that you might anticipate going into that game?
ASIA DURR: I mean, yeah, somewhat we think about, yeah, this is our last game but we don't want it to be our last game for the whole year.
We'd rather suck that up and play so we can continue to play throughout the whole year.  That's our main focus right now.  We can't really weep on our last home game here.  We have a long journey in front of us, so that's what we're focusing on.
SAM FUEHRING: Yeah, it's going to be sad, but we're going to put our hearts out on the floor, being that it's our last home game, and I'm pretty sure the fans are going to follow us wherever we go if we do win the next game, so that's what's great about them.
Q. Is there anything that you can look on with the last meeting against Michigan that you can kind of carry over and think, or has it just been so far that both of you have come different directions since then?
ASIA DURR: Yeah, we started off really slow the last time we played them.  We didn't play like us.  We played down to them; meaning, we chased them around instead of having them chase us.
Yeah, we just really started off slow.  We didn't know where the scorers were.  We let the ball get inside.  We weren't playing hard, as well, so that's another challenge for us that we have to take care of if we want to win.
Q. Sam, anything to add?
SAM FUEHRING: I honestly don't remember.
Q. Your numbers have been good all year.  Last year when you got to the NCAA Tournament, your numbers took a boost and then yesterday, your play.  Is it just something about the postseason with you or a little extra emphasis?
SAM FUEHRING: Yeah, I don't know.  It feels like I'm a tournament player.  I don't know why honestly.  I just always play well in tournaments.  I have no answer for that.  Sorry.
Q. For both of you, what has been the difference with Arica out of the lineup, and if you do get her back, what does she bring to this lineup and add to the team?
ASIA DURR: She's a great point guard.  She knows the game well.  She knows how to make the right reads, especially having that experience and knowledge.  That's huge for us, especially her being our point guard.  We need a point guard who can lead the team and knows what took place on the floor, and she's great at doing those things.
SAM FUEHRING: Yeah, she's a leader on the floor, telling people where to go, what to do pretty much, bringing us together in huddles.  Dana does similar stuff.  Mykasa, too.  But AC just has experience and she's watched it, being that she sat out last year.
ASIA DURR: Two years.
SAM FUEHRING: Two years ago, being that she sat out.  But yeah, she has experience and knowledge of it the game.
Q. What did Coach Walz say to you when he came back about yesterday's game?
ASIA DURR: Just playing hard for the whole game, tempo.  That's just been the biggest two things.
SAM FUEHRING: I probably wasn't even listening to him honestly (laughter).
Q. Even though you tuned him out today, was it at all strange not to hear his voice or his comments during the game yesterday?
SAM FUEHRING: It felt good not to hear him (laughing).  Yeah, just to get a different feel for another coach, it was a little weird, but something we overcame.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT