THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 25, 2009
Denis Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DENIS WATSON: The way scoring went today, I didn't play well, and as I struggled, I really was fighting the whole day.   
 So very, very thrilled to shoot a score like that. I've been struggling this year. I've been swinging very poorly and trying to figure it out. I injured my knee last year and I couldn't walk for a while, coming back too early; I really should have stayed away longer and gotten healthy but I'm working at it.   
  
  Q. How do you injure your knee?  
 DENIS WATSON: I took a compression injury actually at tournament that I won at Texas, stepping off a stone step real high. Didn't see how high it was. Extension. I was prepped for surgery but then they told me to not, maybe might get better in a year by itself.  
 Feels better now, but my swing is all over the place. So it's been a bit of a struggle.   
  
  Q. Didn't look like that today. Commentators were giving you lots of plaudits about how good your swing was looking.   
 DENIS WATSON: Oh, good. I'll watch a bit of the replay tonight. I'll call David tonight and see if he was watching; Leadbetter, call him down, I need a phone lesson.   
  
  Q. Only two shots back, going to be an exciting final day tomorrow.   
 DENIS WATSON: Yeah, it was great to see Greg at the top of the leaderboard where he should be after the things that he's been through.   
 I feel bad for Fred backing up a little bit but it's good for the rest of us. Loren is playing good, and there's no backup on these guys, so hopefully I'll hit it well tomorrow and putt as well and maybe give it a shot.  
 It's a hard golf course. It's very difficult to just keep forging ahead. You saw Larry Mize was even par for the day forever, and then all of a sudden he caught fire. You know, you can hit it in a few spots and be in big trouble here.   
  
  Q. Do you have experience playing here?  
 DENIS WATSON: I've never played here before this week and it's a delight. It's really fun.   
  
  Q. And the highlight of the round, the eagle on 14?  
 DENIS WATSON: That was a lucky one. I hit the putt hard. I was trying to work out the line and get it up there, but I've been leaving all my putts short. And I hit that one, and I said, 'oh, no, I hit it too hard,' and then looked, 'swing a little more, baby,' and the sucker went right in there. A little happiness.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT