U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2007
Denis Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Bogey free today? 
 DENIS WATSON:  Bogey free today?  We're tied today.  Looks like I made a couple of mistakes and got away with them.  Yesterday I did not get away with anything.  I was slightly offline, and I messed up 16, which was unfortunate. 

 Q.  Tell us about the hole -- 
 DENIS WATSON:  What a bad break that was today.  I was playing a 4-iron and hit it exactly where I wanted to, right at the ditch, and I thought the wind was going to move it to the right a little bit, and it went left over the top of the mound.  Fortunate to make par there. 

 Q.  (Question regarding playing this course before.) 
 DENIS WATSON:  First time, yeah, first time had to bring it in a little bit.  Interesting shots you get out here, if you can get way with them.  I've had a few of them; I'm sure everybody has had one or two. 

 Q.  Are you glad to be here on Saturday? 
 DENIS WATSON:  Anytime you have a great day it's good.  I was frustrated and actually drove the ball better the first two days than I did today.  I hit maybe a slightly errant shot here and there, and I just got raked over the coals, basically. 
 I made a triple yesterday and two 6s yesterday, and it was a fight.  I really felt good about making the cut.  I worked my tail off yesterday.  I didn't make a putt longer than 4-feet yesterday and missed a couple of 4-footers.  It's gratifying to come out and play a solid round of golf.  First hole, even though I hit a perfect tee shot and it went over the back. 
 You can't afford to miss greens with wedges out there, but things turned around; it was a great up and down.  And then the next hole I hit it in the weeds, and I was lucky to advance it, you know, 50 yards.  So I made a good par at the second hole.  I had the feeling things would turn yesterday, because I hit it well on the last hole yesterday and hit a 9-iron and it came out a little left and got a good bounce off the mound and rolled down the hill, and I made 3 to make the cut comfortably. 
 I told my caddy I thought the worm had turned, because it seemed dark for the last couple of weeks, and dark can be like that; it beats you up every time you slightly misstep.  And you don't notice it when the ball bounces the right way, and you make a putt for par when you need to, you kind of expect it to go that way. 
 When it starts going the other way, it kind of feels like you're getting your gut punched every day.  So it was nice to get a good one in, especially today.  I'm hoping the wind is going to blow. 

 Q.  Is it any different today out there than the first two days? 
 DENIS WATSON:  It's a lot different wind direction, you know?  It's a factor.  The pins are tough today.  I had some really good shorts, but they were with short irons, so you could see a little bit of wind on 12.  You put your hands on -- you're hitting a wedge there, but the wind is left to right and it looks like the pin is on the edge of the world, and you can't mishit it. 
 There are a couple of pins like that, very bad pin at 17, terrible pin today, hard left to right wind, 220 to the pin, and it's up in the right-hand corner, right on top of the ridge up there.  It's impossible, almost impossible to get it near the flag because it's so far to carry over that big mound on the right. 
 You would have thought that might have been a pin that they would use with a slightly forward tee.  Makes it tough but, you know, the only place it is.  You're walking in the middle of the green and 3-putt from 40 feet.  Most guys are going to play it smart.  It's not smart to go to the flag, because if you don't get it over the mound, you're looking at 5 or 6. 

 Q.  Talk about your birdie there at four. 
 DENIS WATSON:  I made 7 at four yesterday, it hit the top of the bunker and went in another bunker, three putts, you know how it goes.  But today I had a good tee shot and a 7-iron -- really, one of the best shots I've hit in a while.  Hit it behind the hole and made it, and the next one was a wedge and made it from 4 feet, and the next was a wedge and I tapped it in.  Set up a good tee shot on the 6th hole. 

 Q.  I know you talk about your win earlier this year, but what does it feel like, playing with Watson again? 
 DENIS WATSON:  Nice to be mentioned in the same sentence as him.  He had a good break yesterday, finished early, early in the morning to finish the prior day's round and they played in the wind a little bit, but yesterday afternoon was breezy.  Hopefully the wind blows a little bit this afternoon and the scoring is not too low.  It's out there, but it's a danger, you can get into some trouble. 

 Q.  Did you feel the wind picking up in your round at all? 
 DENIS WATSON:  Yeah, definitely.  It's down a little bit, some tough shots.  Thought I could hammer a 4-iron and get it on the front edge, and the wind picked up and I tried to hit a hybrid and I hit it back, and it was disappointing.  The wind can get you a little bit.  On the seven hit a perfect 6-iron and the wind switched.  I backed up once thinking the wind has to still be there and it switched. 
 It just changes angles.  All of the sudden it goes 185 instead of 195, and when it's 195 it rolls out another 10, so it can get you.  There were some tough pins to get to out there.  If the wind is blowing five miles an hour harder there are some tough pins to get to.  I want to go sit and watch 12; it was so hard to hit out there.  I want to sit and watch the 12th hole. (Chuckles.) 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT