SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2007
Denis Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Q.  Good score today.  Great round.  And talk about the stretch where you had a birdie and an eagle?   
 DENNIS WATSON:  Well, I started out double bogey, double bogey, and then made a bogey at four.  And I knew I wasn't that far off.   
 I hit one really bad chip shot at 7 and 3-putted.   
 And then I tried to hit a pitch shot because I couldn't putt it because there were sprinklers in the way on 18.  And I hit it up over the mound and I hit a terrible shot.  It was into the grain and I won't be doing that again there.   
 I was hitting the ball really solid.  I had a short putt for birdie at 1.   
 I had another short putt for birdie at 2, or not 2.  I had a short putt for birdie at 3.  I lipped it out at 2.   
 I had a short putt for birdie at 3.   
 And then I missed the green to the left and 3-putted from there, so I was kind of grinding.   
 I missed a short putt, a relatively makeable putt at the next par-3.  And I was thinking, you know, just -- my caddie said to me, okay.  Downwind we'll make some birdies.   
 I hit some good shots and holed a 12, 15 footer at 6.   
 7, I hit a really good drive and hit 5-iron in there and it took a bit of a bad bounce.  Lucky now because I chipped it in from just off the left edge.  So that was, that made up for a lot.   
 But then I hit it really close at 8 as well.  I missed that putt.   
 Then I missed a putt from 20 feet at the last hole.  I thought it was going right in the middle, it just kind of wiggled out.   
 So all in all up-and-down, but happy.  I started off so well I thought it was going to be a great day all the way, but this golf course likes to take things away from you.   
  
  Q.  So you sit in fourth place right now?   
 DENIS WATSON:  Yeah, I'm like four behind or something.  Four behind is a good position to be in.   
  
  Q.  How are you going to approach it tomorrow?  Are you going to attack, are you just going to go out there and be cagey?   
 DENIS WATSON:  I'm hoping the wind is not going to blow quite as hard.  I think that it pretty much blew hard all day today.  You come out and you see what you're going to get.  It's still a one hole at a time course.   
 This golf course, you choose some shots that you can be aggressive with and you just have to be conservative with others.  Some of them you just have to flat out hit a great shot.   
 14, coming back into the wind, you just have to hit a really good shot.  You don't have an option.   
 Same with 17 and 18.  You better hit some good shots.  So hopefully you pull the right clubs and hit the good shots at the right times.   
 So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  I'm starting to get the taste for playing in contention after last week.  And it's fun.  I get a little nervous, but that's what it's about.  It's fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT