SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2008
Denis Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Give us an opening comment on today's round?  
 DENIS WATSON: It was a struggle. I didn't play as well as I would have liked. I got off to a poor start at 1. And after I got back to 1-under after 8 holes I was feeling pretty good.   
 But I hit pretty good tee shot at 9 and it went through the fairway and I couldn't move the ball but 80 yards with a full swing. You can get your self pretty tied up. And I was lucky to make par at 15. I just kind of hung in.   
 And made a bad 6 up at the hill of fame over here and it was just a battle.   
 I pulled my tee shot a little bit at the last hole and the wind got it and just nothing much good happened after 10. And I am getting close to hitting the ball well, so I'm hoping tomorrow afternoon will be better.  
  
  Q. Is that the attitude you take? You put one round under your belt, you didn't shoot yourself out of the tournament.   
 DENIS WATSON: Yeah, a little frustrated, but also happy that I'm not, that I didn't shoot 78 or something, which can go that way pretty fast. And so it will be interesting to see how the weather treats the players this afternoon. And the greens are still tough, even though they're a decent pace where you cannot be too defensive.   
  
  Q. Is it harder playing a course like this, the ups and downs that you have to go through, I mean mentally?  
 DENIS WATSON: Yeah, it's tough. You miss a shot you're facing potential for a double bogey pretty fast the way the rough is. At the last hole here I tried to hit one about 80 yards with a 6-iron and I didn't get the club through the grass. It almost didn't make it out of the rough. I couldn't get it up in the air because there's tree branches right front of me.   
 So it can get you pretty quick. And the good part is if you are hitting the ball great and hit a lot of fairways, you know, you have your chance to shoot under par. But I didn't do that today.   
  
  Q. Given all of that, how would you assess the setup? Fair?  
 DENIS WATSON: I thought it was pretty fair today. Some of the rough was a little too long for us old guys. They're really slashing at it. I mean, when I hit it in the rough at 13, off the tee, and I hit a full 6-iron just to fly it a hundred yards. I'm not sure it should be quite that tough for us guys, it should get a little easier as we get older.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT