MLB WORLD SERIES: MARLINS v YANKEES
October 17, 2003
Brad Penny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. When did you find out you were pitching Game 1?  What are your thoughts going in it?

BRAD PENNY:  Last night, on the plane, they came up and told all the pitchers our roles.  It's exciting.  Play your whole career.  I mean, Andre Dawson, he said he's played for 20 years and never got an opportunity like this.  That puts it in perspective. 

Q. Jack never told us, what is the starting rotation after you?  Somehow that didn't come out today. 

BRAD PENNY:  Not 100 percent sure, but I think Redman and then Beckett then maybe Pavano.  I think it's Pavano.  I'm not sure 100 percent; you'd have to ask somebody. 

Q. Your experience in the first game in Chicago, first, were you disappointed not getting to start when you all went back to Chicago?  And, secondly, did that help you by not getting the start in Chicago, coming in and relieving in the last game?  How did that all prepare you, or is that the way it worked for you? 

BRAD PENNY:  I mean, I was disappointed, yeah.  But everything Jack's done so far worked out.  I would have been more disappointed had we lost.  We won.  Everything worked out.  He gave me another opportunity to give me the ball again.  I got to go out there and show them what I can do. 

Q. Is there any sense of awe among any of the guys coming into this stadium today, just who hadn't been here?

BRAD PENNY:  I wouldn't say it's in awe.  Everybody's excited to be here.  This is what you shoot for.  We still got to win four more games.  It's a tough Yankee team over there.  Everybody's pretty serious right now. 

Q. What do you know about the Yankees, and what kind of tact are you going to take pitching against them?

BRAD PENNY:  I'm just gonna stick to my game plan.  I'm somewhat of a power pitcher, I throw a breaking ball.  Got to get my pitches over the plate early, show them I can locate all three pitches, and I should be fine. 

Q. I think you guys now are 5-0 in elimination games where you've won.  Is there a sense on your team right now that even if you get down, that there's no way that somebody's gonna beat you in a series? 

BRAD PENNY:  Yeah, I mean, the way this series has worked out, you watch Boston go down two against Oakland, everything.  I mean, you never know, we went down 3-1 to the Cubs, everybody was counting us out.  It's a tough series.  Until the last out, Game 4 of the win for either team, it's not over. 

Q. What did the acquisition of Urbina do to the pitching staff as a whole?  What kind of job has he done?

BRAD PENNY:  He's done great.  He's one of the best closers in the league.  He was willing to come over here and set up.  He set up for Looper.  Looper did a great job.  Now it's the other way around.  Both of them have pitched great all year.  When you got them, we knew we needed one guy in there.  Spooneybarger got hurt.  He was throwing great force, if we had him, it'd be awesome, too.  But he's come over, has done a great job.  He really picked the team up. 

Q. In this round here, you saw what the Cub fans did for their team during the last round.  Are you hoping your fans are as rabid and maybe a driving force?  Again, you probably are going to be considered the underdog in this series. 

BRAD PENNY:  Yeah, I mean, our fans are great.  You go back home, you see how they are.  I think there's Cub fans all around the world.  You saw how they were in Atlanta, how they were at our place.  I don't think it will be like that  - I mean, I hope not.  But if it is, we got to go play.  You got to play in between the lines, not outside of them. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT