NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 7, 2003
Brad Penny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Brad, you must have heard a lot of talk, and a lot of mention of Mark Prior and Kerry Wood, what do you think of your own staff, your own rotation, and is it tough to hear Prior and Wood time and time again?
 
BRAD PENNY:  I don't think it's tough.  When you go out there you have to play against guys like that, and be on top of your game or you're not going to win.  We've got a great staff.  We've really come together this year.  It's been fun for me.  I think it's going to be a good series. 
 
Q.  Any general impressions on the Cubs' line-up that you may be facing tomorrow tonight?
 
BRAD PENNY:  It's a good line-up, tough line-up, you have to make the pitches and stay focused.  Basically do your best, go out there and do all you can to shut them down.  Going against a guy like Prior you can't give up too many. 
 
Q.  What's the biggest impact Pudge has made?
 
BRAD PENNY:  He's really shown what he's all about in the playoffs.  He's been great.  For me personally, I don't have to shake off a lot, he knows how to pitch, and knows my game.  I've been successful with him.  
 
Q.  Do you feel that the fact that the Cubs are in the 100 year phenomenon that people want them to win and the fact that you play where people don't see you too much is going to work in your advantage?
 
BRAD PENNY:  It's going to be a battle.  It's going to be a tough series.  I don't want to look into the slump or the fans or anything like that, you're going to have to play the game.  It's the people on the field that matter.  It's a lot of fun. 
 
Q.  Talk about the job that Jack McKeon has done since taking over the job?
 
BRAD PENNY:  If you're not playing well, he's going to seat you on the bench.  He's done a great job with our club.  
 
Q.  I heard somewhere that McKeon wanted the radar gun shut off when you pitch at home.  Do you think that's necessary, do you fall in love with readings?
 
BRAD PENNY:  I don't know if it will be on here, it's been on at home when I pitch.  I don't know if he did or not.  It's been on when I pitched, though. 
 
Q.  Do you think that they perceive that you place a little too much emphasis on your velocity?
 
BRAD PENNY:  No, I go out there, and I look at it every pitch.  
 
Q.  As the season has gone on, how are you a different pitcher now than in the beginning of the season?
 
BRAD PENNY:  I think I'm starting to locate a little better with my breaking ball, and when I get ahead I'm bouncing my breaking ball and not having as many 0-2 pitches.  Basically I'm the same pitcher. 
 
Q.  Sammy Sosa, how do you approach him, is he in the same category as a Barry Bonds or not?
 
BRAD PENNY:  Barry Bonds is obviously the best hitter in the game.  He's different than Sammy, but you have to be careful with Sammy.  He's a great hitter, and you know he has power, anytime you get it over the middle of the plate he can get it out of the park.  That's the guy in this line-up that you don't want to have him beat you. 
 
Q.  Old history here, but did the Guerrero incident change you as far as the toughness as a pitcher?
 
BRAD PENNY:  The ball didn't even hit him.  I don't know why he was mad.  I guess he didn't like me to pitch inside. 
 
Q.  Did you see anything, even at the start of this season, did this seem to be a playoff team before the season started?
 
BRAD PENNY:  Yeah, with the addition of Pudge, and the way we played in the spring, we played pretty well.  We definitely thought we would make the playoffs.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT