NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
September 30, 2003
Brad Penny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Would you talk about facing the Giants' lineup? 
 
BRAD PENNY:  It's an exciting moment for us.  It's a great lineup.  You can't let Barry Bonds beat you.  They got a few hitters around.  Edgardo Alfonso is a great hitter.  He didn't have the year that everybody expected him to, but still a very dangerous hitter.  You got to make your pitches and concentrate.  
 
Q.  Will you do anything differently than you would when you faced them in the regular season; playoff atmosphere, every game is so important? 
 
BRAD PENNY:  I think you got to stay the same.  You know their strengths and their weaknesses.  I've got to stay with my strengths.  I think I'll just face them the way I did.  You know, I just won't let Barry beat me.  
 
Q.  How do you not let Barry Bonds beat you? 
 
BRAD PENNY:  Depends on the situation.  You know, big lead, you got to face him.  But if it's a close game, you nibble, and if you walk him, you walk him, you don't care.  
 
Q.  You are an aggressive pitcher.  You like to come inside.  Will that approach change with him or not? 
 
BRAD PENNY:  Yeah, I got past that already.  I've already tried it; it didn't work.  So I'd like to let him beat me the other way if he's going to beat me from now on.  
 
Q.  You had a good September.  How much do you think you've grown as a pitcher this month, getting ready for the playoffs? 
 
BRAD PENNY:  I think the important games that we had, you know, coming down the stretch with Philly helped me out a lot.  Adrenaline takes over.  You don't feel anything, the little aches you have usually during the season.  I mean, the pitcher I've become, I can throw strikes now, I've been throwing over the heart of the plate - not the heart of the plate, but the corner.  And I've located my breaking ball.  I think if I can do that, I'll be all right. 
 
Q.  How do you like pitching in Pac Bell ballpark? 
 
BRAD PENNY:  It's a nice stadium.  I consider it a pitcher's park.  It's a big park.  Dimensions are deep.  They're fine.  I mean, as long as you don't have to face Barry, it would be a lot better.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT