LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 18, 2014
Hee Kyung Bae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about your game overall today on the front nine.   You par saved all the holes on the front nine and on the back nine, did you four birdies, one bogey and then a birdie.   So walk us through your game?  
HEE KYUNG BAE:   I think my iron shots today were strong but my putting wasn't especially strong.   So especially in the front nine, I would make it on the green pretty close but then my putt wouldn't drop.   
So then after making the first birdie on the back nine, I really picked up momentum and in the back nine, my putting was stronger and my shots were stronger and I also took advantage of the fact that the tee boxes were closer on the back nine.   
   
 Q.   Looking back on this year you were pretty steady and strong.   Do you see a chance of winning this tournament?   
HEE KYUNG BAE:   I think today, this round, I was able to shoot lower.   As I mentioned earlier, my putting wasn't that strong, so I missed a couple.   But I think my game overall was okay.   Looking back on the year overall, I actually attended this championship in 2010 as an amateur, so I do remember this course, and I feel good about this course.   
   
 Q.   Now that you're in contention to win, have you thought about what you would do if you were to win the event and take LPGA membership as your goal to get on the LPGA?   
HEE KYUNG BAE:   Of course, if I win, I would definitely take the opportunity to go to the LPGA.   My ultimate goal is to get to the LPGA.   Of course, I was preparing for the JPGA, but my ultimate goal is to go to the LPGA.   So if I can achieve that goal the earlier, the better.  
   
 Q.   Will you be excited to be in the lead group tomorrow?   
HEE KYUNG BAE:   I think I would know once I am standing on the first tee box tomorrow.   But looking back on the past three days, I haven't been struggling to make the shots.   Instead, rather, I missed some shots just by like maybe I had more chances.   
So I don't think I would feel particularly nervous.   
   
 Q.   Would it be a dream come true to win here?   Did you think coming in here you would win it, have a chance to win it?  
HEE KYUNG BAE:   No, not at all.   I didn't think about winning coming into this championship.   I think in the back nine, I was able to lower my score significantly, and doing that, I found myself on the top of the leaderboard.   
   
 Q.   How about if it came down to it and you won tomorrow, how excited would you be?   Dream come true?   
HEE KYUNG BAE:   It would feel like a miracle.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT