NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 3, 2003
Randall Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Any satisfaction with the key hit against the club that could have kept you?

RANDALL SIMON: No doubt.  You know, that's the reason I came over here was to contribute for us to go to the World Series.  I'm having a great time, and every time I go out there, I give everything I've got to help our team to win.

Q.  How slick was it out there that first inning?

RANDALL SIMON: It was really tough, because a lot of times when you go out there and the field is wet, and they hit those ground balls to shortstop or third base, I have to concentrate a little bit more.  I have to anticipate those bad throws, because it's really wet and we were really wet at the time out there. 

Q.  Randall, can you talk about the fact that again the whole Pittsburg connection did it?

RANDALL SIMON: I think it's just a blessing for us to be here.  Like I always say, at our position, there could be a lot of other third basemen or center field and first base.  They chose us, and that right there makes us so strong and we want to help our team to win.  You can see when we go out there, we give it everything we got.  Aramis has been unbelievable, same as Kenny and, of course, I've got to do the same.  They keep me going.  Every time I go out there, we're having a great time out there.  That's the key to our success.  We're enjoying the game, and we're going out there having fun, at the same time giving everything we got.  Every time we do that, it's really tough to beat us.

Q.  Randall, how big a lift did the fans give you?

RANDALL SIMON:  No doubt.  I think we have the best fans in the whole world.  I can tell you that for a fact.  I have been in the American League and National League.  I've never seen anything like this.  The support we get from our fans is unbelievable.  It motivates us.  When we play, you want to try really hard.  It's great to see the support we get from our fans.

Q.  Randall, describe the swing you took at that ball.  It looks almost like an abbreviated tomahawk chop of your own.

RANDALL SIMON:  I always swing at everything, and I hit everything, so I don't know why it surprises you.  He didn't want to give it up.  At the same time, having first base open, I was trying to put the ball in play.  It was a great hit for us to win.

Q.  How much confidence do you guys have going into tomorrow's game?

RANDALL SIMON:  I think it's unbelievable, but we have really, really high expectations for tomorrow, and our confidence are so high right now, that ain't no word to describe that.  I think, of course, we're going to come out there with the same fire and with the same game plan, because by can't take anything for granted.  We're playing against one of the best teams in baseball, so we have to go out there the same way we did today, work hard and do the things to win ballgames, and all the times we put the offense and defense together, and I don't think anybody can beat us. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT