NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 24, 2007
Yanic Perreault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  YANIC PERREAULT:  Played well and, like you said, we were clicking tonight together.   
  
  Q.  The second period (inaudible) scoring five or six goals and four in a row to take the lead the turning point obviously?   
 YANIC PERREAULT:  Yeah, I think the second period was good for us.  But at the same time there's so much talent on the ice that you never know, it could go back the other way.   
 But I thought we played well tonight.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible) tonight that you were going to outscore Crosby and Ovechkin?   
 YANIC PERREAULT:  These players are great.  Just to play against them I think it's a great honor.  And, I mean, you know, we play a couple of shifts so we were making sure we were coming back because they had so much speed.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible) Crosby when you guys took a face-off together, in the same period you took a face-off against Sidney, did you talk at all?   
 YANIC PERREAULT:  I've known Sidney for a years.  He's been in the Quebec league.  We've been friends for many years.  We're just having a good time and it's an honor to play against guys like that.   
  
  Q.  There was so much talk about the young guys in the East.  In the West you had old guns.   
 YANIC PERREAULT:  That's right, we had some old legs.  But I think we had a lot of fun today.  That's the main thing.  And we came here and trying to be the best that we can and I think (inaudible) maybe no hitting.  But I think everybody is starting to compete hard and I think it was a good game.   
  
  Q.  Was it the first game since the lockout without a penalty?   
 YANIC PERREAULT:  When I saw in the second period he was doing a break away, then I said I don't think we'll see a penalty tonight.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible)?   
 YANIC PERREAULT:  That would have been nice.  I think the crowd was trying to get one too.   
  
  Q.  Yanic, you surprised Crosby didn't wind up for the point out there, showcase game for him in some respects?   
 YANIC PERREAULT:  I think it's tough for them also.  They're great players and for me just to play against them was an honor to play against them.  But sometimes, some nights it's clicking, some nights it's not.  You never know.  But you look at all the lines over there.  They were great.  We just had a great time.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT