NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v HAWKS
May 25, 2015
Shelvin Mack
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Shelvin, I know you always like to tweet out something positive.   Is that kind of the mood you woke up with this morning?   
    SHELVIN MACK:   Yes.   I had an opportunity last night to make a shot, and I missed it.   We've got another opportunity as a team to go out there and play basketball, and I feel positive that we've got a great chance to win tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How much time did you dwell on that shot?   
    SHELVIN MACK:   All last night.   I woke up and decided to move on to the next game and started preparing for that.   That's not going to do me any justice to think about that last play.  
   
 Q.   Can you just take me through that last play.   I didn't get the chance to talk to you about it last night.   
    SHELVIN MACK:   We ran a play.   It was just kind of hard to get in because of the angle it was in.   I tried to box Dellavedova out and tried to get the ball in, just tried to make a play.   There was like six seconds left, tried to get a shot up, get an opportunity to get a rebound.   I had another shot in the corner, and it didn't go in.  
   
 Q.   So you wanted to get one off early in case you missed so there was time for a rebound?   What were you thinking at that moment?   
    SHELVIN MACK:   I just wanted to get back to a quick available three, but you save yourself another chance to get another shot, especially when you're down three.   You try to give yourself as many chances as possible.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel bad about both or feel bad about the first one?   
    SHELVIN MACK:   I felt good about both of them.   It's the NBA.   It's a make‑or‑miss league.   I just missed them.  
   
 Q.   How do you rally up now, down 0‑3, getting ready for Game 4, trying to send it back to Atlanta?   
    SHELVIN MACK:   We're playing basketball.   You've got to get excited for that.   Last time around this year, we were preparing for this season, you know, practicing and playing one‑on‑one and stuff.   Playing five‑on‑five, you've got to get excited for that.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you guys have, regardless of what happens, that you've kind of changed the way teams look at how teams can be built in the NBA?   You don't have to have that superstar?   
    SHELVIN MACK:   Yeah.   I feel like almost everybody in the NBA is pretty good, given a chance with opportunity.   We do a great job of giving everybody an opportunity to be successful and put them in a position to be successful.   
    Once you have your teammates believe in you, you give everybody an opportunity.   You play the right way.   Somebody's open, pass the ball.   You learn that in kindergarten and try to do the same thing at this level.  
   
 Q.   Is it different from the way the Spurs did it?   Even though the Spurs have played that way for a long time, they've still got Duncan and Parker and guys that are kind of recognized?   
    SHELVIN MACK:   Yeah, they just have Hall of Famers.   When you have some Hall of Famers, that makes a big difference.   Like the situation I was in last night, you can give the ball to Tim Duncan or Tony Parker if you can't make the play.   We're still learning.   We've been together two years, and we feel like we're making shots.   
   
 Q.   You guys haven't been able to do it quite at the same level the last six weeks or so than at times during the regular season.   Do you think that's about the level of competition being tougher, about the injuries you guys are going through?   What's been tough about sustaining what we saw, especially January or February?   
    SHELVIN MACK:   I couldn't say the competition is getting tougher.   We were the No.2 team in the NBA.   We've gone through different things the past few months with injuries.   You know, next man up.   I like our 15‑person team in the NBA.   Unfortunately, we've been dealing with injuries, so it's not our best 15 playing.   We still got a chance.   Like I said, we had an opportunity to win yesterday, and we didn't do it.   We've got to keep moving and keep thinking positive.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about this notion, because you guys are down 3‑0, you weren't as good as everyone thought all season long?   
    SHELVIN MACK:   You can't judge 3 games over 83 games.   Our record speaks for itself.   We've just got to figure out a way to get it done.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT