NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v HAWKS
May 24, 2015
Kent Bazemore
Shelvin Mack
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Atlanta Hawks111
      Cleveland Cavaliers114 
   
 Q.   Question for both:   How are you guys able to not only stay in the game but take a lead once Al went down?   
    SHELVIN MACK:   Just playing hard.   Competing at a high level.   It's a 48‑minute game.   I think we did a great job of playing the full 48 minutes.   And somebody's going to come out with the win tonight.   
    KENT BAZEMORE:   Echo what he said.   We played hard.   We came here with the mindset that we could win the game.   We fought all the way down to the buzzer.   We had a lot of chances down the stretch to ice the game.   But missing veterans like Al and Kyle, it's kind of tough with new guys stepping in.   
    I love the effort from my guys tonight, and I look forward to Game 4.  
   
 Q.   What did each of you see on the Horford‑Dellavedova play, and what was your reaction to the ruling?   
    KENT BAZEMORE:   It's a tough call, man.   From my point of view, Dellavedova was down on Al's knees, and it was retaliation, I think.   But it's playoff basketball.   We have a good staff of referees, and they went and looked at it for ten minutes until they got it right.   You can't argue with that.   
    You look at his track record and his history, a lot of things can be said, but at the end of the day, it doesn't really matter.   We lost Al, and still had a game to play.   
    SHELVIN MACK:   Same thing he said.   The ref's in a tough spot when they've got to make a judgment call like that.   Dellavedova plays hard.   Like I said, he's got a track record doing things like that.   But we had to move on.   It's tough when you've got a leader like that going in the back.  
   
 Q.   Both of you guys mentioned the long, elongated wait for the review.   What's going through your mind during that review?   What are you thinking?   What are you guys doing during that time?   How do you even deal with that process?   
    KENT BAZEMORE:   You know, you always think worst case and then best case.   Worst case, he gets ejected.   So you start gearing towards that, getting your mind right.   We see the replay and the crowd getting into it.   So you've just got to turn your focus into the next step.   You can't really let that affect anything.   You always hope for the best, but in the back of your mind, be ready for the worst.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT