CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2016
Rebecca Lee-Bentham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's been an interesting day for you guys.  What was it like with the rain delay and everything?  
REBECCA LEE-BENTHAM: I mean, the first nine, I said to my group, it went pretty smoothly, we didn't have to wait on any shot, so smooth.  And as soon as I said that, on No. 10 we had like a 10-minute wait on the tee.  Like the group in front of us just teed off.  So we knew the back nine was going to be kind of long.  Then we got the horn blown, and I luckily got a tap-in and finished the hole, so I didn't have to worry about making a putt or anything, so that was good.  But it was a really long wait.   
But it was okay because they let us hit a few balls.   
 Q.  So you've had a pretty good day?  
REBECCA LEE-BENTHAM: Yeah, up and down.  I had two three-putts today, a little frustrating because the greens are tough here.  But yeah, overall it was a solid round.   
 Q.  That makes you top Canadian, at least so far in the first round.  
REBECCA LEE-BENTHAM: Good to know.   
 Q.  What do you focus on tomorrow?  At least you're still in the hunt at this point.  
REBECCA LEE-BENTHAM: Same game plan.  I just go out there, it's just a game of golf.  I've done it a thousand times.  Really try not to put extra pressure because then if I do, I get a little nervous and tense and tight over the ball, so I'm trying to just stay relaxed.   
 Q.  Is this your last event?  
REBECCA LEE-BENTHAM: Yes.   
 Q.  Does it feel good to -- are you making the most of it, like you're really enjoying yourself?  
REBECCA LEE-BENTHAM: Yeah, I mean, this is my favorite event, so I had to make sure I came out last year because I missed out last year due to injury, so I'm so happy to be here.  I've always wanted to come to Calgary and see Banff and Lake Louise, so I got to do that on Saturday.  Checked that off the bucket list, so it's been a good week so far.   
 Q.  What was the injury you had last year?  
REBECCA LEE-BENTHAM: I had a hip injury, my SI joint, my left side.  So I was out for three months and had to withdraw from this event, which was hard.   
 Q.  And then came back at what point?  
REBECCA LEE-BENTHAM: Just the beginning of the year, so I took time off, and then I started back up during the off-season, started practicing again, and then I was ready for the beginning of the year.   
 Q.  What did you do during the delay, and then when you knew you were going to go back out what was the --  
REBECCA LEE-BENTHAM: We probably went in just before noon, so that was good because we got to eat lunch because we were probably up at 5:00, had breakfast at like 5:30, so we were a little hungry, so it worked out fine.  And then it just looked like it got worse and worse, so we thought, hey, let's just relax.  I got a lot done, was able to catch up with people I haven't seen in a while, just because I haven't been on Tour for the year.  So it was good, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT