KIA CLASSIC
March 23, 2017
Beth Allen
Dan Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm here with Beth Allen and her brother.  Really a tremendous story.  You guys touched on it a little earlier on.  We may as well hear it from Beth.  Beth the decision to give your brother a kidney, how hard was that for you?  
BETH ALLEN: Not hard at all.  It was one of the easiest decisions I've ever made.  He needed one and I'm his little sister, so he got it.   
 Q.  Do you still get emotional thinking about what you've been able to give to him?  
BETH ALLEN: Yeah, for sure.  It was one of the best decisions I've ever made like I said, but it was an easy one.  We're all so grateful he's healthy now.   
 Q.  I read an article that it was about giving him life that you had.  
BETH ALLEN: Yeah, definitely.  I'm so lucky.  I get to play golf for a living, I get to travel, I get to do all these things, but he wasn't able to do as much as me.   
So it was really easy to give him a better life.   
 Q.  And Dan, from your perspective, what was it like knowing your sister had to make this decision, but also giving you the chance to live a life of your own?  
DAN ALLEN: It was excellent.  The sacrifice, the time she put in for the testing, all the stuff.  Once everything set in and actually got it, the impact right away was really good.  Felt really awesome.   
 Q.  And how rewarding is it for you now watching her perform so well not only on the Ladies European Tour, but here in your hometown of San Diego?  
BETH ALLEN: Super awesome to watch her play, to see how physically well-gifted she is.   
 Q.  You have a bit of that in you now.  
DAN ALLEN: Yes, definitely so.  Yes, I do.   
 Q.  Has your mood changed at all?  Do you get her moods or are you still even keel?  
DAN ALLEN: No, not so much.  I can see what's coming though.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Beth, on a golfing note, your game really turned around on the Ladies European Tour once you got Sophie Gustafson caddying on the bag.  What does she do for you on the golf course?  
BETH ALLEN: Well, she's awesome.  She really leads me in the right direction.  She uses her experience to give to me when I need that sort of thing.  Like when I'm in contention, she's obviously done it a bunch of times so it's easy for her to tell me what to do.   
We always have fun, and I think that's the most important thing for me.   
 Q.  Well it's a brilliant story and so glad to see the two of you out here.  Best of luck for the rest of the week.  
BETH ALLEN: Thank you.   
DAN ALLEN: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT