BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2017
Beth Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sum up the round for us.  
BETH ALLEN: I had six birdies and two bogeys and I played pretty solid.   
Kind of a big mistake on 8.  Hazard on the right.  Other than that, it was pretty good.   
 Q.  You beat the heat with your tee times.  
BETH ALLEN: I know.  I was actually really happy with those tee times, because I think tomorrow is going to be nice too to be out in the early afternoon.   
 Q.  Can you just speak to be back on the American tour, what it's like and what it means to you, these opportunities?  
BETH ALLEN: Yeah, I mean, I'm really excited to be back, and certainly in a different place than I was when I was out here nine years ago.  So I think that is going to make a big difference for me out here.   
It's good to be back, but of course I miss Europe a little bit.  Hopefully I'll be able to get over there and play some.   
That's not in the plans right now because I'm trying really hard to make Solheim.  So focusing out here for the first half of the year for sure.   
 Q.  You mentioned a lot of things worth following up here.  How are you in a different place?  
BETH ALLEN: I think experience-wise and confidence-wise I grew up a lot playing in Europe.  I wouldn't change anything playing out here.  I was young.  Well, I was 23 and that was young back then, but I don't think I was quite ready.   
I did learn what it takes to do well out here.  When I went out to Europe I obviously learned how to win and how to just play better.  I think I've always been talented, but I actually learned how to play in Europe.   
 Q.  The Solheim Cup.  How much is that on your radar starting this year?  
BETH ALLEN: I mean, it's like kind of a goal and a dream, you know?  Definitely after last year I thought I would be a really good asset to the team.  I was going to do my best to get on there.  That was a big reasons why I went to Q-School.   
So hopefully.   
 Q.  What do you think makes you a really good asset?  
BETH ALLEN: I think I'm a really good people person; I'm fun; I'm a fresh face, even though I'm old.  (Laughter.)  I'm still like, you know, a new sort of person.   
I think Juli is awesome, and she's always been an amazing role model to me.  I think it would be great to play for her.   
 Q.  And then must be kind of weird being an American on the European Tour.  If you do the Solheim Cup, be kind of a funny thing, won't it?  
BETH ALLEN: Yeah, it will be funny.  But like I said before, I'm American at the end of the day.  I'm a strong advocate for the European Tour because I love it, but I'm always going to back America in everything; much to their dismay.  (Laughter.)   
I do know it'll be a little bit weird, but I know everyone will support me because they just want me to do well.   
When we tee it up, it's game time.   
 Q.  Would you maybe need a new caddie that week?  
BETH ALLEN: Yeah, probably.   
 Q.  Can you talk about Sophie what she's meant to you.  
BETH ALLEN: She's been great.  She was an amazing player, and I can't think of anybody better to caddie for someone.  I don't know if there is any other caddie out here that's done more than her on the golf course.  That makes me really trust her.   
It's quite easy to listen to somebody who has done it over and over and over again and won a major and played eight Solheim Cups.  We make a really good team because we're friends as well.   
Yeah, it's been awesome.   
 Q.  The early position you're in on the leaderboard you're in now, on your first tour go-round, would you not have been thinking about winning and now as you get into a weekend are you thinking more of that?  
BETH ALLEN: Like I don't think I'll be thinking about an outcome.  I think back then I probably would've been thinking about that.  That would've messed with me.   
Now I sort of just hit shots, take as many unnecessary risks as I can, make as many birdies as I can, and that's it.  Keep going and going and going.  If I win I'll win, and I'll find out on the 72nd hole.   
Like I'm not going to try and get ahead of myself.  Maybe in the past I probably would've.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT