OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2016
Beth Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Quite a year, two wins, Order of Merit.  How do you sort of assess this year and why it's all been so good?  
BETH ALLEN: I think it's a combination of things.  I think experience is the main thing.  I've been on Tour for 12 years now and then in Europe since my eighth season I think.  I feel like I've gotten better every year and then Sophie last year was a really good addition.  She's helped me a lot.   
And just being happy in general off the golf course is a huge help.  I think 2016 is like better than I could ever ask for, so it's been awesome.   
 Q.  How much of a help was Sophie?  Obviously you've won the first tournament together, ladies European Masters.  
BETH ALLEN: She's a huge help for a lot of reasons.  She's a really great caddie, which I don't think -- she's a great player, of course, but great players are not always necessarily great caddies.  I think she's had lots of caddies, so she's learned from all of them and has taken their best traits and has combined them into something that she thinks would be the most helpful.   
Obviously all her experience, winning as much as she has, she knows exactly how I'm feeling on the golf course, I think that's kind of priceless because it's so hard to know what that feels like unless you've been there.  She always says the right thing at the right moment.   
 Q.  Are you missing her this week?  
BETH ALLEN: Of course.  I didn't have a good day today because I didn't have a good day.  It happens.  I haven't had many this year, so it's sort of like, you know, golf happens.  But yeah, of course I miss her.  You have the same caddie for 18 months and then you change it up; that affects your rhythm a little bit.  I've got a great caddie with me this week who I've worked with before, so it's not his fault.   
 Q.  Why isn't she here?  
BETH ALLEN: She's actually at a conference, Tony Robbins, actually.  So she's doing some self-improvement herself.  Of course, like I want her to be happy.  She's happy, I'm happy; we're all playing good.  We knew this was happening long in advance, and it's a shame she's not here to see me -- it's a shame she's not here for us to win together.  But she said in the past that she's going to do her best to get me into this position and she did.   
 Q.  As one of the few American players on the LET, can you tell us why you play in Europe and why you enjoy playing on the LET?  
BETH ALLEN: When I came over to Q-School in 2007, I was just feeling not very happy with my golf and I wanted a change.  I thought, what a great way to use my job as a vehicle to travel.  I've always wanted to do that.   
As soon as I came, my first event in 2008 was in Germany; I just felt really at home.  I felt like I could be myself.  I feel like this tour is almost like a family, and I feel like a big part of that family.  I think that means something.   
 Q.  Has it given you a spark coming to play in Europe?  
BETH ALLEN: Oh, sure.  I didn't do much -- to be fair, I didn't do much before 2010 or 2011.  So I really turned it on the last five years.   
I think I've just gotten better every year, and this year, just happened to be the best.  So it's awesome.   
 Q.  You mentioned being happy off the course this year, as well.  Is there anything that's happened this year, anything specific or just the results have brought that around, as well?  
BETH ALLEN: Well, I got married in July.  So that was a really -- I mean, July was crazy, amazing at the same time.  Because I played the U.S. Open, got married, played The Scottish Open and played the British Open.   
So it was kind of like busy -- it was obviously a busy month but it was also the best month.  I played really well and obviously had an amazing week when we got married.   
I just feel, like I live in Edinburgh now.  I feel really comfortable there.  I'm just in a different place than I was when I turned pro.   
 Q.  And the results have come with that?  
BETH ALLEN: Yeah, I think so.   
 Q.  You said it just feels more like a family on the European Tour.  What does the LPGA feel like?  
BETH ALLEN: I don't have anything bad to say about the LPGA at all.  I played out there for, you know, three years, and I'm about to go and play there again a little bit.  It's just a different feeling.   
I think that out here, we often all stay in the same place because we're in different countries and we're not necessarily driving.  So everyone's together.  On the LPGA, everybody's got their own cars and you're staying in all sorts of different hotels, so you just kind of feel disjointed with people.  And if you're not making an effort, then you're not really going to meet new people.  Whereas out here, everybody's in the same sort of places, and I think Europeans in general I think are a bit more fun.   
But of course, there's the few Americans like me that enjoy themselves -- but no, I really, really think the atmosphere is a little bit more relaxed.   
 Q.  After the year you've had, it doesn't really matter how you perform here this weekend; there's no pressure.  
BETH ALLEN: No, not really.  I don't really know what the cut is -- I think I'm all right.  Of course I would have liked to have played better, but I did feel some pressure because I didn't want -- like I wanted to win properly.  I know that Shanshan hasn't played in enough events, but I wanted to make more money than her.  Like I didn't want to just do it -- it's great either way.  But for me, I wanted to make more money than her.   
 Q.  Next year, will you try to balance it, and how difficult will that be?  
BETH ALLEN: I'm really looking forward to it because it's always been a goal to pick my own schedule and go wherever I can.  But yeah, I'm going to do my best to play as much as I can over here and defend where I've won.  I think that's important and I'm going to do everything I can to do that.   
I don't know what our schedule is like out here at the moment, so it's hard for me to say.  But yeah, I without a doubt will support the European Tour next year for sure.   
 Q.  What will be your target next year?  
BETH ALLEN: My target, well, I guess like a big goal of mine would be to play Solheim.  It was kind of necessary for me to go to Q-School to do that because it's hard as an American to earn Solheim points out here; it's impossible.   
I'd like to do that.  I've never been one to make really -- set really, really high goals.  I've always been, I just want to be a bit better every year.  I want to have attainable goals.  So next year, I'm going to do my best and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  How are you going to celebrate the season once there's no more golf, just back to Edinburgh?  
BETH ALLEN: Yeah, I haven't been to Edinburgh in so much, so I'm so keen to go back.  I'm going to be there until Boxing Day and then I'm going to California to see my family, too.  I think it's going to be a great off-season, probably the best ever.  It's been full on the last few months and I'm really ready for the couch.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT