ROLAND GARROS
June 7, 2018
Latisha Chan
Ivan Dodig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHAN-DODIG/Dabrowski-Pavic   
6-1, 6-7, 10-8   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  Just a reaction to winning a title.  How does it feel?  
IVAN DODIG: To who?  Me or her?  I will start this time.   
Yeah, it's great.  I think is great feeling.  I have great memories from Paris, one doubles and now mixed.  And especially that me and Latisha, we just played first time, even though it was really close if we will play.  She have some health problems.  We was, like, I will search for another partner.  Then in the end, I'm, like, no, listen, we have to try.  And she was okay.   
We entered, and the things went right way.  I really happy to win here and meet her in these circumstances.  And hopefully we'll, I hope, continue to play some more.  We had great fun on the court, which is most important.  We had difficult matches, but the mixed is all about fun and of course trying to win.   
But I really enjoyed the court and had good time.   
LATISHA CHAN: Yes, it feels amazing.  And especially, as Ivan just said at the beginning, I wasn't sure if I'll be able to compete in mixed doubles.  At the end, we made the right choice.  And then we did it well, had a lot of fun.   
I think this title is important for both of us, especially we are both in the final before.  I think we are very, you know, hunger for the title of mixed doubles.   
I think since we have the same goal, we were fighting for the same goal.  I'm really happy that it came true.   
 Q.  Given in the background of you maybe not even playing, is that where the fight came from just at the end of that match?  Because it was quite tough in the end, to get it over the line?  
IVAN DODIG: Yeah, yeah, obviously was -- we just did what we have in mixed and actually what we have on the tour, not on the Grand Slams.  Sometimes can be frustrating.  I think we was much better team, like, first set, and second set, all the time it was leading, you know, we had control.  And then suddenly we won two points and things changed.   
And then suddenly you're in situation where you're fighting for every point, you know, and your super-tiebreak is sometimes one or two balls can decide the winner.   
Yeah, was not easy.  Actually in the end was very stressful.  Even though we said we had fun, but you could see in the end was stressful.  We both wanted to win, like Latisha said.   
We had finals here, and, yeah, this moment, I think it's very important for us that we won this match.  Should be finished earlier, but with these rules and in the final, everything is possible.  I'm just happy that we won, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT