NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Mikael Holmqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








I mean, they're very good players both of them, almost top scorers in NHL, so that could be very good.  But I've got to get bigger and stronger.

Keep up with them?  Yeah, speed.  Not yet, maybe.  But in any in a couple years, maybe.

Yeah.  I mean, it's a big team. I mean, lots of souvenirs and that's everybody knows who they are.

Yeah, everywhere, yeah.

Yeah, I have -- I don't know what it's called in English, but I have some Ducks, yeah.

Like flag.

Yeah.

A lot stuff you mean?  No, not really, no.

Yeah, maybe.  I'm not a good goal scorer as him, but my skating is pretty good, so...

In what?  As a player?  I think I'm a center, typical center, who can handle the puck good and skate good, score some goals sometimes also, so...

Yeah, since I started playing -- played, so...

When I was six years old.

No, not really.  But friends of mine, Marcus Nilssen, have told me a little bit, so...

He was drafted by the Florida Panthers last year, so he told me a little bit.  And I went to the draft last year to watch it, so I had a little experience.

Yeah.  I don't know, it was fun, yeah.

It doesn't matter.  I think it's fun to be here, so...

No.

Warm.

I have to get bigger, stronger, get up -- my weight must be more.

Maybe ten kilos.

Sweden.

I mean, they're interests more in terms of game here, so I have to work on my game.  I don't think I'm going to make it.

Timetable?

No, not certain point.  But I'm going to workout hard and try to be there fast as possible.

I think I'm more creative, yeah.

I don't know, the coach sometimes tells me to do some things with the puck.  I like more to do creative things.  So I'm a more creative player.

No, I don't think so.  I've played in small ice surfaces too, so I find it really fun, and I like it.

I don't know.  I don't know how they live there.

Yeah, maybe. 

No, I don't think so, no, no.

No, we started when I was ten, I think.

No, not really.

Yeah, I am.  I think I'm becoming better this year.  I'm still working on it with weights and running and stuff in the summer.  So I'm working on it.

183.

Yep.  Next year it's World Juniors.  I hope to be on that team soon.

Yeah, very big, yeah.

Yeah, I hope so.   That's my dream.

No.

Around three years.

Yeah, Stanley Cup, of course

No, I have -- I have to go for my papers yet. You know, you have papers you have to do testing and stuff.  I have to go still.  I don't think -- in Sweden, if you tell them that you're like playing hockey or something, you maybe don't need to do it.

Yeah, we played for same team.

Yeah, a little bit.  And, as I said, I went last year to look at the draft, and it gave me a lot of experience.  And I think that it was good for me.

Yeah, I met Tommy  Bergman back in Sweden, but I didn't meet them here. 

Yeah, I think I have 16 in these two days.  So there were a lot of teams.

Yeah, this night it was pretty hard, yeah

Yeah, I think it's great.  I mean, Mighty Ducks is a good team, yeah.  It's great, yeah.

I didn't do that because it's -- it's 176 and he played for the big leagues.  I played junior team this year.  I only played nine games in the big teams, so...

Yeah, I know him, yeah.

Here?  No, I don't think so.  I like to travel.

I think it depends on how I'm going to play next year, where, so...

I'm going to workout hard and try to make it as  fast as possible, yeah... 

Yep.  My whole family; brother, sister and parents.

Younger.  My brother is 16 soon and my sister is 12.

My brother's name is Andreas, A-N-D-R-E-A-S.  And Maria.

Yeah, he plays for -- it's called Hammarboe.

A little bit.  Not much, but a little.

I mean, I don't know what to say.  But, I mean, Anaheim is one of my favorite teams, so it's great.

I don't know, it seems to be good organization and good teams, and most European players, so...

Yeah, I like them.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT