BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2019
Dennis Grosel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida State - 38, Boston College - 24   
 Q.  As far as positives go today, can you talk about what you learned in that fourth quarter comeback, leading the team to get back to 24-all?  
DENNIS GROSEL: I think the one positive is just that you're never really out of it. As demoralizing as some drives may feel or some games may feel, you're one drive away from being back into it, an onside takeaway from having the ball back. So I think one positive is keeping the faith, keep driving, and if one or two plays fall our way in the last couple minutes, it could have been a completely different ballgame.   
 Q.  Kind of describe (indiscernible).  
DENNIS GROSEL: Yeah, I mean, obviously the goal prior to was to tie the game and get rid of the yo. I didn't really have the opportunity to watch that last drive. We were getting the offense ready for that game plan and go in the game. Obviously we'll go watch the film and see what happened, what went wrong. As an offense we're trusting the defense to stop them when we're on the bench making our game plan to go in the game, and we were ready to do that, given the opportunity.   
 Q.  Talk about the balance you were able to provide the offense today, a little more passing.  
DENNIS GROSEL: Yeah, we knew heading in that we were going to need a little more balance than we've had the past couple weeks. I was pretty happy with the way our pass and run game married up this week. I think they did a pretty good job of stopping the run. But as an offense we need to be more balanced, and I think we brought that a little more today. Unfortunately it wasn't enough.   
 Q.  What will be the key to consistency in your final two regular season games as you guys obviously try to become bowl eligible?  
DENNIS GROSEL: I think the biggest thing is owning our scheme and keep pushing forward. You know, whether that be -- obviously we have two really talented backs and a really talented offensive line that we're looking to run the ball. I think developing maybe a complement to that; I think we have a pretty good one. But when teams come in here, they're going to load the box, and we're going to need to make some plays on the outside, which I thought we did pretty well today. But just moving forward, owning our scheme, doing our thing and making a more complete offense.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT