BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
Dennis Grosel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 45, North Carolina State - 24   
 Q.  Obviously, making your first career start is making your first career start. How nice is it having A.J. and David back there to make your life easier? Totally different than if you didn't have them with you.  
DENNIS GROSEL: Absolutely. They're two really special backs. They both bring similar but different asset to the table, and I'm confident with either one of them back there. I know the entire offense is. It's a nice safety blanket to have back there when I'm either not completing passes or we're struggling in the throw game. Thankfully, we didn't really need that today.   
They're hard runners. They're physical. They work hard, not just in run scheme, but pass protection as well, which probably goes unnoticed a lot of the time. They're incredible to have back there.   
 Q.  Dennis, talk a little bit about the preparation process for you going from a backup to starting. How was that for you this week, and how was the game in general for you, particularly at the start of the game?  
DENNIS GROSEL: The bye week helped, having a little extra week of preparation. In ways, it helped me prepare, obviously. In other ways, it was long. I wanted to get the game going. It's a long two weeks to prepare knowing that what you have in store for you.   
The preparation, like Coach Addazio said, was a lot of run schemes. We were challenged up front with the run game with how incredible their defensive front was. I think we answered the call pretty well and even brought it to them in a sense.   
 Q.  Dennis, you briefly touched on it right there. Were you anxious, nervous last night? Knowing this was different than an emergency situation. You had a lot of time to think about this.  
DENNIS GROSEL: I would say there's a little extra nerves, but the trust that's in that locker room right now is pretty special, both for me, both for the offensive line, the defensive line. Everyone in the room there, you know, it's pretty special, and that helped calm my nerves a ton.   
Obviously, the pick six helps me for sure. It gives me a little breathing room. But, you know, like Max says all week, we've got your back. Just be you, play, and there's no better way to resemble that than to step out and make a play like that.   
 Q.  What about the 51-yard pass to Hunter? When you see a tight end that wide open, as a quarterback making your first start at this level, how important is that for you to complete that and get a big gainer?  
DENNIS GROSEL: Obviously, the situation called for a completion. We needed to move the chains a little bit. To see that big frame so wide open, a lot of times you don't really see them that wide open, but get it anywhere near him, he's making a catch and run for it.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
DENNIS GROSEL: Right. I would say definitely the momentum towards -- let's go to the drive prior to, our drive, when we drove all the way down and ended up with no points, demoralizing. We need to come away with points in that situation. The penalties hurt us. But to run back into the huddle to talk -- when we're running right things over and hear the crowd roar and see we're in the end zone with the ball, it changes the entire momentum of the game.   
Coach was dead on when he said they set the tone. We came out, didn't put points on the board, and they had our back.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
DENNIS GROSEL: The scramble?   
 Q.  Yeah, the scramble. What did you see on the play?  
DENNIS GROSEL: I think it was 18, 99 yards right down the field. It was just one of our drop-back passes that looks for a completion. They went through my entire progression, all the way across. At that point, it's either throw away and save it or try to make something happen. There's a lane to my right, made something happen, made a guy miss, and was fortunate enough to get the drive started really and get a first down.   
Coach said earlier in the week keep getting first downs, one first down at a time, and put it in play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT