ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2016
Jbe Kruger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another good day?  
JBE KRUGER: Thank goodness.  The weather wasn't great.  But I managed to hang in there.  I got a good, fast start which always helps if the weather is not great.   
 Q.  Was it the usual wind helping out?  
JBE KRUGER: Yeah, so the last few holes are playing pretty tough.   
 Q.  Overall, must be pretty delighted with your place on the leaderboard?  
JBE KRUGER: Yes, definitely.  I think I'm making a few putts for a change, which definitely makes a difference.  I'm not hitting it really very well, but my putting is helping and I think that makes the difference.   
 Q.  Have you changed anything or done anything with the putting?  
JBE KRUGER: Not really.  I think I changed putters a couple weeks ago, so I think it just comes a bit warm off the face because I tend to leave it short.  So it definitely helps making a few more putts.   
 Q.  How are you enjoying this tournament?  Always a brilliant week.  
JBE KRUGER: Yeah, I think it's one of our favorite weeks of the year.  Every year it's amazing.  We've been lucky with the weather the last couple years and today and yesterday weren't that great, but today, Scottish standards, was actually still okay.  The problem is I'm not Scottish (laughing).   
 Q.  It's such a different week, but you get to play with the amateurs and it's fun.  
JBE KRUGER: It's definitely a lot more relaxing, definitely.  It's nice and we can speak a bit of Afrikaans because there's so many Afrikaans people.  It makes it more relaxing and there's a bit of camaraderie which you never have in a normal tournament.   
 Q.  Thoughts on the next two rounds?  
JBE KRUGER: I'm going to try and hit it better.  That's first thing.  If I can putt as well as I have been, I think I've got a chance then, if I can keep putting like that.  But I have to improve a little bit of the ball-striking, but I don't know if today I'm going to work at it because it's not that warm.   
 Q.  A big week for you in terms of your card.  
JBE KRUGER: At the beginning, I think I said I need a miracle, literally.  I don't know what the numbers are but I think I probably need to finish Top-10.  I haven't looked at the numbers or the money you earn but I thought probably I have to finish Top-10, at least, to try and get a card.   
You know, it's in the Lord's hands.  I'm trying to do it as much as I can.  If I have to play in Europe or -- if it's in His will to play in Europe, then I'll make it definitely, and if it's not, it's not and I'll take it as it comes.   
 Q.  Did you go in any bunkers today?  
JBE KRUGER: No.  Luckily not.  That was amazing.  I was in the practice bunkers, I was in there but it was a bit thicker, so the ball didn't come out as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT