PGA CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA DAY
June 2, 2008
Rob Correa
David Levy
Mike Mihalich
Brian Whitcomb
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  JULIUS MASON: Good afternoon everyone. I'm Julius Mason, Senior Director of Communications and Media Relations for the PGA of America. Welcome to the 90th PGA Championship Media Day.   
 We have a number of special guests in our audience, and we would like you to meet some of them now.   
 From the Michigan PGA Section, Secretary Gary Koenes.   
 And the PGA Section Executive Director, Kevin Helm.   
 From Oakland Hills Country Club Chief Operating Officer, Rick Bayliss. PGA Head Professional, Pat Croswell. And Superintendent Steven Cook.   
 The Secretary of the PGA of America, from Phoenix, Maryland, Allen Wronowski.   
 And the PGA Championship Tournament Director for this event, Ryan Cannon.   
 Now it is my pleasure to introduce the president of the PGA of America, from Bend, Oregon, Brian Whitcomb.   
 BRIAN WHITCOMB: Thank you, Julius and welcome everyone. It's so nice to be back in Michigan.   
 The 2004 Ryder Cup doesn't seem like it was that long ago. In just two months, Oakland Hills Country Club will continue a PGA Championship tradition of testing the world's greatest players on some of the world's greatest golf courses.   
 History has proven that the strongest fields in Major Championship golf have been at PGA Championships. Since 1991, the PGA Championship has hosted the deepest field based on the official World Golf Rankings.   
 Last year's championship at Southern Hills featured 97 of the top 100 world-ranked players and 64 players representing 22 countries, the most of any U.S. Major.   
 The PGA Championship also is the only championship that features an all-professional field. 20 members of the field are the nation's finest PGA club professionals.   
 The excitement of the PGA Championship commands a global audience. In addition to the millions of U.S. viewers who will watch some 28 hours of championship coverage by CBS Sports and TNT, millions of viewers in more than 194 countries and territories with a household reach of more than 594 million also will watch the exciting action of the season's final Major Championship.   
 We are extremely excited about returning to this community. We know the 90th PGA Championship will draw enthusiastic galleries to Oakland Hills and we look forward to seeing you in August.   
 JULIUS MASON: Thanks, Brian. And now let's hear from one of our key partners who is responsible for bringing the PGA Championship to the world through the magic of television, ladies and gentlemen, CBS Sports' Rob Correa.   
 ROB CORREA: Thank you, Julius. I would also like to thank the PGA of America, Allen and Brian, Joe, who is not here. We have a terrific relationship with the PGA, one that we see continuing year after year. I would also like to thank Turner, David Levy and his guys, we have done the PGA Championship for a number of years with them. And that's, that will be a lot harder to do if we didn't have such a good relationship.   
 The 2008 PGA Championship will be CBS's 18th in a row since we started in 1991. And as you saw on the video there's been some really amazing moments, from Daly's Cinderella Story the first year we got the PGA back. To Davis' rainbow and Tiger's incredible playoff with Bob May. Sergio running around the fairways. It's been an incredible run. I'm sure we'll see some amazing things this year.   
 Our schedule, we will be doing two preview shows in late July and early August and then highlights Thursday and Friday night of the PGA at 12:30, 7 a.m. and then we're on the air for the third and final rounds at 2 o'clock on the weekend.   
 Last year close to 32 million people watched some part of the third and final round on CBS over the weekend. Which is really, that's a significant number for any television program and it's really a special number for golf. Clearly this is one of the preeminent events in golf and the viewership that we get proves that.   
 Lance Barrow is our coordinating producer and Steve Nelson is our coordinating director. This will be their 12th year together producing and directing the PGA. We don't think there's a better team in golf. Our talent configuration will include Bill Macatee, Verne Lundquist, Gary MaCord, Ian Baker Finch, Peter Oosterhuis, Peter Kostis, David Feherty and on 18, Jim Nantz and Nick Faldo. So without a doubt in a couple of months, be here before we know it, we look forward to more memorable moments at the PGA. Thank you, Julius.   
 JULIUS MASON: Now from Turner Sports, the PGA of America's television and digital media partner, President David Levy. David.   
 DAVID LEVY: Thank you, Julius. We're also very proud of the partnership that we have with CBS and the folks from the PGA of America and in fact this is our 17th consecutive year that Turner Sports is televising the PGA Championships and the 10th year that we are now putting it on TNT.   
 And we're looking forward to our announcers and our team covering these four days exclusively with CBS our partners, with great analysis and great coverage.   
 I'm also proud to announce today that we, that we are announcing that Ian Baker Finch will be working our booth alongside our other key announcers, Ernie Johnson Billy Kratzert and Jim Huber who is here today. Ian has previously been a part of our 2003, 2004 British Open and we're delighted to have him back in this year's PGA Championship on TNT. And for everybody in this room, I don't think we could have had that happen without our friends at CBS letting us help in making that happen for us.   
 As we venture into our 17th year of coverage I'm proud to reflect our long-standing relationship with the PGA of America which is a significant partnership for Turner Sports' portfolio. And as Julius mentioned, for the last two decades we have been working together to produce the best on air coverage of the PGA Championships as well as the PGA Grand Slam of America.   
 And we ever extended this partnership to include the award winning PGA.com.   
 This marks the third year that we'll consecutively coverage on the PGA Championship on PGA.com. It will be live broadband coverage that you'll be able to see throughout the four days.   
 In 2007 PGA.com streamed more than 45 hours of this tournament coverage yielding more than 2 million streams and 165 million page views over the course of the four days. TNT is proud to be a part of this event. We look forward to being back here in Detroit. And go Red Wings tonight.   
 JULIUS MASON: Thank you very much David and now ladies and gentlemen let's hear from our host, the 90th PGA Championship general chairman, Mike Mihalich.  
 MIKE MIHALICH: Thanks, Julius. On behalf of the members of the 90th PGA Championship Committee and Oakland Hills Country Club, I'd like to thank all of you in this room for your support of this great championship.   
 We are proud of the history of Oakland Hills Country Club, which currently is ranked 17th by Golf Digest in its list of America's 100 greatest golf courses.   
 During its 90-year history, Oakland Hills Country Club has hosted 16 premier championships, including six U.S. Opens, two PGA Championships, two U.S. Senior Opens, the U.S. Women's Amateur, the U.S. Men's Amateur, Western Open, Carling World Open, and the 35th Ryder Cup in 2004.   
 It's not too late to secure tickets to the season's final Major and we have information to help your readers, viewers, and listeners.   
 We feature various ticket packages in order to give golf fans an opportunity to participate in this Major Championship in a way that best fits their schedule.   
 Fans may purchase tickets via the Internet at www.PGA2008.com. Or, they can also call 1-800-PGA-GOLF.   
 Ticket packages include juniors admitted free of charge for the entire week if accompanied by a ticket-bearing adult. Those details are in your news kit.   
 Again, ladies and gentlemen, Oakland Hills Country Club is honored to be hosting the 90th PGA Championship and we look forward to seeing you all there in August.   
 JULIUS MASON: Thanks, Mike. And now, let's hear one more time from Brian Whitcomb.   
 BRIAN WHITCOMB: Thanks, Julius. The PGA Championship has been fortunate each year to produce special signature moments from champions who capture the Wanamaker Trophy.   
 Those images are forever etched in time and serve as wonderful memories for golf fans throughout the world.   
 Our defending champion took control last year at Southern Hills Country Club, with a record heat index of 112 degrees. He started with a birdie on the opening hole and cruised to a five-stroke victory.   
 His victory was his fourth in the PGA Championship, to give him 13 Major Championships.   
 He is ranked No. 1 in the world, and he has displayed early this year that he has the momentum to make this an even more memorable season in his career.   
 And for those of you that have difficulty remembering Tiger's victory last year, here is a little reminder.  
 (Video played.)  
BRIAN WHITCOMB: We are proud to welcome our defending PGA Champion, via satellite, Tiger Woods. Tiger, thanks for joining us.   
 TIGER WOODS: How you doing, Brian.   
 BRIAN WHITCOMB: Good, buddy.   
 JULIUS MASON: Mr. Woods, Julius Mason here. We're joined by about 75 of your closest friends and I think off the top of their head they have one burning question for you, Detroit or Pittsburgh tonight? In the Stanley Cup finals.   
 (Laughter.)  
 TIGER WOODS: That's pretty good. I don't really care, let's talk about the Dodgers.   
 (Laughter.)  
 JULIUS MASON: Politically correct as always and that's what we --  
 TIGER WOODS: I don't think anybody really watches hockey any more.   
 (Laughter.)   
 JULIUS MASON: Tiger, before we go to Q&A, some opening thoughts about returning to Oakland Hills. I think the last time you were here might have been 2004.   
 TIGER WOODS: That would be correct. Yes.   
 JULIUS MASON: Your thoughts about returning and defending your championship here?   
 TIGER WOODS: Looking forward to it. I played there twice, I played there in '96 as an amateur and then I played in the Ryder Cup in 2004 and definitely one of the one of the hardest golf courses that you can play. The greens are absolutely demanding. The way it's usually set up for the last two times I played it's been difficult, it's been testing, the weather's been a little bit of a factor but not too much of a factor. But more than anything it's just the greens. The golf course is, you can hide some of these pins where it's just virtually impossible to get at. These greens are as hard to get your speed right, read them correctly, they're probably just as -- I won't say as demanding as Oakmont, but certainly not too far behind.   
 JULIUS MASON: Thanks very much Mr. Woods. I think we're going to go ahead and go to Q&A now.   
  
  Q. Can you just give us an update on your health and how excited you are to play in the U.S. Open coming up.   
 TIGER WOODS: I'm looking forward to it. It's been obviously been awhile since I've played and competitively, and really looking forward to getting out there and mixing it up with the guys. I really do miss it, I really do miss being in that competitive environment. That's the atmosphere in general, I just, I do miss it.   
  
  Q. Welcome to Hockey Town by the way. So in '96 you were the amateur?  
 (Laughter.)  
 You were playing as an amateur playing in the '96 Open and you shoot that 76 with the 8 on 16. And in the Ryder Cup we know what happened there in 2004. What are your overall feelings? Do you have warm fuzzy feelings for Oakland Hills or are you kind of a little skittish about it.  
 TIGER WOODS: I thought Oakland Hills was a big turning point for me as an amateur. I led the U.S. Open at one point. I was tied for the lead. Early in that back nine on Thursday. Collapsed on that coming in. All predicated on a ruling that I had on what was it, 14? And just let that upset me and then played terrible coming in. But the second round, Friday's round is what really turned my sights into possibly turning pro later that summer. That's when I went out and shot 69 to make the cut. That was a big turning point for me as an amateur and then I played well at the British Open later that year and then obviously won the amateur.   
 So I think Oakland Hills for me as an amateur was a big turning point to possibly turning pro and then obviously the Ryder Cup was very disappointing. We lost by as big a margin as we did. We didn't play well and we certainly didn't make the putts we needed to make.   
  
  Q. What do you think about the changes or have you, are you familiar with them yet, the Rees Jones changes made here the U.S. Open doctor for this year's PGA Championship?  
 TIGER WOODS: I have not. I haven't heard of the changes yet. Since I played there in 2004. So looking forward to checking it out and seeing what he's done.   
  
  Q. You intend to get out here before the tournament a few times?  
 TIGER WOODS: I normally do that. I normally play a Major Championship [cite|sight|site] prior to the week to take a look at it especially since we haven't been there in a while. I don't really do it at Augusta unless they made changes. But since they didn't make any changes I didn't go. But normally I do go up there early to a U.S. Open [cite|sight|site] or a PGA venue. Don't go really to a British Open and then come back. I just go over there just for the week.   
  
  Q. You'll be, I think, here in less than a month about an hour north at the Buick open. Wondering if that might be a time when you would sneak down for some practice rounds and my second question, are your thoughts regarding Annika's retirement, she's kind of in that echelon where you are and I wonder what your thoughts were about her stepping down.   
 TIGER WOODS: As far as playing a practice round that's not a bad idea. I've haven't looked at doing that, but now that you mention it it's not a bad idea. But don't get any ideas. Don't come out there and have all the crews out there following me.   
 (Laughter.)   
 As far as Annika and her retirement, I'm very happy for her. It was something that she's been talking about for a little while. And for guys and girls are, it's two totally different things. She's at a time when in her life that she really wants to have a family. She wants to do that. And it's really hard to try and play the TOUR and she's done it all, been through it, and been there for longer than most people could have ever dreamt of being there. So Annika the type of person that doesn't really do anything half ass, she has to do it all out. And if she can't dedicate the time to being a full-time golfer and being the No. 1 player in the world any more, that type of dedication, then she's not going to do it. And that's why when we talked about it she was very happy and I could hear it in her voice she's very content with her decision. She's ready to move on.   
  
  Q. Tiger, to the outside world a lot of people don't look as the golf swing as being a really physically demanding thing about when you swing as hard as you do you obviously put a lot of pressure, could you talk about the swing in terms of how much force you put, you played a lot of other sports, how much pressure it putts on the body and do you think that your left knee is something that you're just going to be dealing with for the rest of your career?  
 TIGER WOODS: As far as force, yeah, most, you don't realize most of the guys out there who do play are a little bit nicked up. A little bit injured. But generally it isn't their left knee it's usually their left hip, right hip, lower back, neck, shoulder, wrist, elbows, those are very common injuries. And some guys get even a little more severe than that. But for me it's been my left knee. That's been kind of where the force of my golf swing has taken basically the brunt of it. And it's one of the reasons why I made the changes to what Hank and I have been working on over the years to try a get rid of some of that, alleviate the strain of that. So that I can play for a longer duration. And it's been working, but still I've done it for so long people don't realize I've been playing golf for oh, geez, basically 30 years now. Put it in terms like that, it's, you can say it's been awhile.   
  
  Q. My question is, can you put mental toughness into words and how did you acquire it?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well mental toughness, I think that I guess you could put it into words. It's stuff like you never give up. You never give in to anything. You never accept anything but best, except the very best from yourself. You can always push to get better. It is all -- you can look at it different ways. But as far as acquiring it, I wanted to become tougher when I was a kid because I knew that I didn't have the physical gifts to play golf. The guys that I was playing against were longer, they were bigger than me, I was very small, very frail, very thin. And the only thing I could rely on is my mind to get me around a golf course. And so strategically my dad and I started working on course management, started working on how can I be tougher, not let things get to me.   
 Those are things that I have, I worked on with my dad to get to this level and he certainly has helped paved the way to, basically get me started going down that road.   
  
  Q. A quick follow-up if you don't mind, a different question though, on any tournament Sunday it's got to be a boost to you knowing that you've done it before. But there is, is there added value, if you're in the same situation and it's the Sunday of a Major?  
 TIGER WOODS: There's absolutely no doubt about it. Absolutely no doubt about it. The fact that you can say that you've done it before and know that and mean it, some guys say, oh, yeah, I've done it before, but it's been in junior or amateur golf or I've done it in a mini-tour event or even a bigger stage, even a Regular Tour event. Back nine on Sunday of a Major Championship or just Sunday in general, is a totally different animal. The pressure's much more immense. You deal with the different type of emotions. You know that you can really can't make the mistakes that you can get away with in a normal event. Mistakes are much more grand. And you just have to minimize your mistakes, but also hang around and beat everyone there. So it makes for a very interesting atmosphere. Plus there's a lot of different commotion and movement and photographers or media spectators, there's a lot more of a frenzied atmosphere in a Major Championship on Sunday.   
  
  Q. It's well known how hard you work out away from the golf course and how often you work out. My question is, now after three operations on the same knee, have you given any thought or consideration to either adjusting or cutting back the, these sort of delta force work outs that you do?  
 TIGER WOODS: Certainly not cutting back. That's the only thing that's kept me going. If I didn't have the leg as strong as it is, I would have had more damage earlier on. So the work outs have certainly saved me and has allowed me to play as long and as hard as I've wanted to and no, I'm a very thankful I've worked out as hard as I have. And if I hadn't, I would have been certainly in much [worse|worst] shape earlier on in my career.   
  
  Q. To follow-up then, can I suggest that it would be better if you work out more now or have you been thinking that you're going to have to work harder possibly now to keep that knee the way you want it to be and the areas around the knee?  
 TIGER WOODS: The older you get -- certainly I have. I certainly have I done that over the years. I have stepped that up over the years. And as we all know, the older you get, the more you have to work out to maintain the same or even have just small gains. And I'm in my prime of my career right now, but still you still have to work out harder and don't forget, it's not like I'm the only one doing it. I'm not the only one working out. Everyone else is training, trying to become better and you just have to keep working.   
  
  Q. I have an equipment question for you. Not sure how familiar you are, but where do you rang a guy like TP Mills and his putters that he's been doing for years? Where do you rank him in sort of the echelon of pioneers of putter making and are you familiar with his work?  
 TIGER WOODS: I'm familiar but not too familiar. I've only tried his putters. I've never really fully given it a go. The feel's a little bit different than what I like and the look and the swing. It's been a little bit different than what I had grown up with. So and I never really gravitated towards any of his putters. But I know that a lot of guys have had success with his putters and he's certainly makes a very nice looking blade and as I said, feel wise for me it's been a little bit different than what I've become accustomed to and what I've grown up with.   
  
  Q. And just a quick follow-up then, with the way the industry has become with big, big companies out there, do you have an appreciation for a small company kind of in the out in the middle of Alabama competing with some of the bigger companies?  
 TIGER WOODS: Certainly it's going to be more difficult for them to do that. The game of golf is exploding all around the world and mass marketing has certainly been something that has taken a lot of the golf companies to higher levels. I don't think TP's really has been involved into that and I don't know that his success rate right now, I don't know what the what his margins are, but I'm sure that he's doing very well.   
  
  Q. I wanted to get an update on what you're doing in terms of the 10 days before The Open. Are you playing or just hitting balls and are you confident you're going to be okay by next week?  
 TIGER WOODS: I've been practicing quite a bit. I've just started to play some holes. I've been kind of slowly building up towards that. I'm not trying to take it too hard. My practice sessions have increased. They have gotten a little bit more intense. I've been out there for longer duration. And everything's been holding up well. Which is a good sign. And it's a matter of now getting to the feel of playing again and hopefully all that will come together right there come Thursday.   
  
  Q. Expectations at Torrey Pines? Do you feel close to a hundred percent?  
 TIGER WOODS: I feel like I'm getting there. I feel like I'm getting my leg stronger. Hopefully it will be close to a hundred percent, but if it's not, no big deal. I have won tournaments with it not like that before, so just a matter of going out there and really getting into the competitive flow. A lot faster than I had done a couple years ago at Winged Foot. I got into the competitive flow three, four holes into each round. You can't do that. I got to be in the flow right on the very if first tee box and get into the rhythm of the round very quickly.   
  
  Q. In retrospect do you wish you had done the surgery at a different time, for instance last year's off season or was the time right when you did it?  
 TIGER WOODS: We tried to train and get everything as much, well as strong as we possibly can throughout the off season and see how the beginning of the year went. See how it felt, whether it had got any better from last year. Obviously I played all right at the beginning of the year, but it kept degrading and it wasn't getting any better. Towards the Florida swing it started getting a little bit worse and then it wasn't getting any better. It wasn't showing any signs of getting better. It showed signs early on in the off season, but the more I played, the worse it became.   
  
  Q. In your absence from the TOUR the past obviously number of weeks have you paid attention to what's been going on with the TOUR with the other guys or have you avoided it?  
 TIGER WOODS: I haven't seen too much golf unless some of my friends have been playing. They have been up there in contention. Other than that I really haven't watched a whole lot of golf. I've been trying to -- I've made kind of a pact to myself a long time ago that I wouldn't watch unless some of my friends were playing in contention. This that's kind of something that helps me get away from the game a little bit. But some of my buddies were there with a chance to win, I'll be glued to the TV.   
  
  Q. I thought I read the other day that your daughter clunked you in the head and I read that --  
 TIGER WOODS: Oh, yeah.  
  
  Q. I'm wondering is she old enough yet to yell fore and has heredity helped her swing at this point?  
 TIGER WOODS: The only thing she yells out is da da. That's about it. She's, she will drag, we have a small little cut down club that a little cut down putter that she will drag around that's kind of funny. She likes that. She likes throwing balls at Taz, my border collie, and have him try and catch it or go catch and it's kind of funny to see a 11 month old and my border collie go ahead and play fetch. That's pretty funny to watch but it's actually one of the coolest things to watch.   
  
  Q. After your surgery what are you going to do to improve your putting game? Will there be a lot more strength in your left knee coming up in the U.S. Open and a follow-up for Oakland Hills?  
 TIGER WOODS: My leg doesn't really do anything with my putting. I just had one poor putting week. It just happened to be at the Masters. If I putt well, who knows. But I putted well every other tournament prior to that. Putted in spurts at Doral. But I guess people forget that I won a few tournaments right before that.   
 (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Just wondering if there's a different feeling for you and for the other players coming into the last Major of the year, coming into the PGA Championship versus going into the Masters or one of the earlier Majors?  
 TIGER WOODS: There's no doubt it's the last one it is your last shot. And I wouldn't say there's a sense of urgency, but you know that it's the last one. You just have to -- you understand there's really no other Major to prepare for after that. So you got to get it done here. And especially since there's been times when I haven't won a Major that year and I've always considered having a Major Championship in one year, it's a great year. It turns a good year into a great year. And that's your last shot at winning a Major Championship if you already hadn't won one and there are times when you want to add to that. If I've been in a couple occasions where I won one prior to that. Sometimes one them twice. And you want to get one more. You want to have just an unbelievable year.   
  
  Q. You won the last two PGAs, is there something about the set up for the PGA institutes with Kerry Haigh that suits your game or what is it about the tournament or the set up that you think favors you or does it not?  
 TIGER WOODS: I remember going into Tulsa that everyone thought the golf course didn't fit me. I wasn't the right person to win there on that venue. So it's all about playing well. Whether it's how Kerry sets up the golf course or how Mike sets it up at the U.S. Open, it basically if you're playing well you're going to be in contention. And just a matter of having all the pieces come together at the right time and that's the trickiest part about it is there's four Major as year that you want to have your game peak and come together for and that's one of the hardest tasks there is to have it all come together at the right time and the last two years I've really played well and I've played well at the right time.   
  
  Q. Can you tell me when you are putting extremely well what is the last thought that you have standing over the ball before you take your putter back?  
 TIGER WOODS: I couldn't tell you what's the last thought, I just, there's a line or a point or a feel, it's different from putt to putt. Sometimes I'll see like a lane, sometimes I'll just pick a spot. It's easy to hit that spot. Sometimes I'll be working on my speed, sometimes I'll -- I just see it and just get up there and just hit it. Every putt's different. But you just know that every putt's going to go in. And that's a pretty sweet feeling that no matter what speed I hit putts at, whether it's going to run three, four feet by or it's just going to die in the front lip, whatever speed you hit it, it's going in. Those are fun days.   
  
  Q. Just wondering, when you've been practicing and playing recently, are you trying to overcome the pain if there is any or is it a more a matter of just getting back into the groove after being away from it for so long. And also wondered if next week were not Major Championship, would you be playing?  
 TIGER WOODS: Second part of your question is, yes. The first part of your question is no. Pain is not really an issue. It was early on, but not right now. Which is a good thing. It's about getting endurance back up in the leg, getting it used to twisting and torquing and hitting ball after ball after ball after ball after ball. Countless balls. And getting accustomed to that. And obviously making sure my endurance is up for the U.S. Open.   
  
  Q. When you haven't been on diaper duty I'm trying to piece this together here, have you walked or ridden an entire 18 holes on the home track there yet or are you just kind of piecing this together and in baby steps, no pun intended.   
 TIGER WOODS: I have been around 18 holes. It was just for an outing. But I haven't played 18 holes yet, no.   
  
  Q. I'm wondering if you could explain when you are in the rough particularly like you would see at a Major Championship how much extra torque I suppose puts on that knee. And along the same lines how do you expect the set up at Torrey Pines to be different next week than you usually see at the end of January?  
 TIGER WOODS: As far as the rough, no, actually puts less torque on my knee. For some reason I, the rough just stops everything. There's no, really no twisting, the rough just takes all the energy away and you just kind of bound it down there maybe a hundred yards and let it roll.   
 But as far as the set up, I'm curious to see what the fairway lines are. I'm curious to see how the ball's running. When we play there each and every January it's not ever really running it's usually soft, overcast, sometimes it's even raining, cool. We don't have the run out in some of the fairways like for instance number 4, how they have changed the bunkering there down that rate side, that is going to be more of a challenge to actually put the ball in that fairway. You just hit it down there we used to, but now with it running it can roll off to the left side there and you run out of room. Same thing on 5. You run out of room down the right. So it will be interesting to see how the golf course is, the speed of it really is. You know the greens are going to be hard and fast. We have played them hard, but not really this fast. We played them the first year they had the redesign, the year that Ollie won, they were unbelievably firm. Almost like how they were at Bay Hill when they first redid them. They were just like concrete. But they weren't up to speed of a U.S. Open. So I'm sure it will be certainly probably that firm and at the speed of a U.S. Open and USGA pins.   
  
  Q. Do you plan on playing 18 holes soon so that you can test your endurance and also to see how you're going to feel the next day to simulate a little bit of what next week will be?  
 TIGER WOODS: Definitely. Without a doubt I'll be playing a lot more than just 18 holes.   
 JULIUS MASON: Tiger believe it or not unless you want to go for another five more hours of asking and answering questions, I think we're going to let you go. So on behalf of your friends from Oakland Hills, on behalf of your friends from the PGA of America and from all your friends in Detroit, from the Detroit Red Wings, thank you very much for joining us today and we'll see you soon, Tiger.   
 (Laughter.)  
 TIGER WOODS: You got it Julius. Take it easy, buddy. See you, Brian.  
 JULIUS MASON: I'd like to thank everyone with us today for participating in PGA Championship Media Day and remind you that a transcript from today's news conference will be available on PGA.com.   
 Please be sure to pick up a PGA Championship News Kit on your way out. Good afternoon, everyone.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT