U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1996
Scott Draper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Scott, off to a flying start?
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  Yeah.  I mean, I didn't break serve once in the match, but I had a couple breakpoint chances. Struggling on second serve, gets the ball up so high. Couldn't capitalize on my chances.  Didn't serve as well. He puts pressure on you all the time.  He serves so big, you feel pressure when you're serving on your own because you're struggling every game.  One thing I think is important is to be able to serve nearly as well as he does so he feels pressure on holding his own serve as well. 
 

Q.  Do you play golf?
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  I do. 
 

Q.  Are you pretty good?
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  Some days. 
 

Q.  You played out on the grandstand last year against Stich.
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  That's forgotten.  That was my first  US Open.  I made the third round, played on the grandstand court.  I struggled.  That's forgotten.  I'm looking ahead. I wasn't thinking of that today, I just wanted to win the match.  Unfortunately I didn't play as good as I'd like.  He doesn't make you get into much of a rhythm on your returns. You have to keep holding your serve or you're going to be struggling.  That's what happened. 
 

Q.  He approached the chair there in the second set. What was he complaining about?
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  Well, there were several times.  One time there was a bit of a glare up on the court, had to put a towel over something.  He was complaining about calls, I suppose.  I don't know. 
 

Q.  How was it playing against his serve?  You must have at least placed in practice against Philippoussis at times.
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  Believe it or not, I haven't played Mark since I was, you know, probably 18.  I haven't practiced with him yet.  First time I played Goran. Probably the biggest servers is Rossett and Sampras. .  I prefer his first serve.  If I can get a racquet on his first, it's not so hard.  His second serve gets up probably a foot above my head, and it's tough. 
 

Q.  You have to guess on his first serves, just hope you guess right? 
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  No.  I don't try and guess, no.  I don't think it's going to do much good because when he does hit an ace, pretty close to the line.  Speed he serves, pretty tough no matter what you do.  I'm trying my best to get the racquet to the ball.  Unfortunately I didn't do enough of that. 
 

Q.  Are you disappointed that when you play some of these top guys, you maybe take a zip but you can't quite knock them off yet?
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  It's frustrating.  I realize I have to improve my serve.  My percentage of serve isn't good enough.  A few areas I've got to work on.  I've only been on the Tour a year and a half.  It's disappointing, but those guys have been around for many years, they're established players, and I'm not. 
 

Q.  So you can actually see your potential there to carry on and really aim to knock them off?
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  Yeah.  I mean, except for Goran's serve, I feel like I can match it in a lot of areas.  I lost three serves in the match.  It was four sets.  You know, that's the difference.  I can match it off the ground. Unfortunately he just serves so big.  Against Goran, I just want to go out and play, keep him out there as long as I can.  Never know what's going to happen.  He can get off the boil.  I was hoping for that.  I had a Love-40 game.  It's  like you get nervous when you get a breakpoint.  Here is a second serve, my opportunity, instead of realizing it, you get a bit tense, shanked a few balls.  Makes it frustrating. 
 

Q.  For the rest of the year, what are you going to be practicing on your game?
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  Think my serve is a big thing.  Not getting enough free points.  If I serve better, I can use my net game a little bit better.  Today I just didn't have much rhythm, going for a lot of three-quarter serves, better than hitting a lot of seconds.  That's the way it was. 
 

Q.  But you're not really that disappointed?  You played well?
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  I played okay.  Just my second serve return, I was just missing too many second serves and I just didn't probably serve as well on a couple of games.  I think I could probably, you know, come to the net a little more as well.  Certainly areas you look back at a match, someone might have taped it at home, have a sit down and look at it. 
 

Q.  I don't know if you've been asked, but in the first set tiebreaker when Goran got upset with some of the calls, was talking to one of the lines people, he's been known to lose his concentration.  Did you think that was going to happen after that or what did he do to pull it back together?
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  Yeah, I mean, I certainly sensed  that he was upset with a few calls.  Goran's past record here isn't so good.  That's one thing that makes me feel if I can keep him heady long enough, he might crack.  It was pretty good.  By his expression when he won the match, he clinched to his coach.  Might have something to prove here. To not lose serve in a match, either it says not too much about my returns or he's got a great serve, so. 
 

Q.  Were you here last week when the ATP, the top seeds or the top players on the ATP Tour took some criticism -- leveled some criticism to the USTA.
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  I was there. 
 

Q.  There was sort of a strong threat made against the Australian Open, not to try to do the same thing, even though there has been no suggestion that they would.  Did that bother you at all?
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  No.  I mean, with the guys at the Australian Open, there's no known way they're going to go their own way.  We want that event really badly.  We do everything we can to make the players happy, because it's so far to come at that time of year.  I think if they sense we may lose a tournament because the players aren't going to come, they'll do anything anyone wants.  However they want to seed the players, the ITF, the Grand Slams, the ATP, whoever is involved, they're going to abide by those rules, I'd say.  Is that what you were asking? 
 

Q.  Just seemed unusual that they would give such strong language to the Australian Open people since they made no suggestion that they weren't going -- they wouldn't deviate from the rankings.
 
SCOTT DRAPER:  I mean, I just think from a public point of view in tennis, it's important that the public knows which ranking system or which routine they want to follow.  If there's different ITP, ATP doing different things, it's going to have a huge contrast.  The public are not going to know what's going on, hurt tennis.  I think they're trying to do the best for the game.  I don't know the inside story.  I think everyone's trying to do the right thing. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT