U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1995
Scott Draper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. First serve left you today?

SCOTT DRAPER: Serve? I don't know, I couldn't find the court at all on the serve and
that wasn't helping me playing so many serves so well. The pressure is on me every game to
keep holding and I had one of those days where I just couldn't find the court with my
serve at all.

Q. Obviously the first serve wasn't -- was the occasion perhaps a bit too much or did
you feel okay out there?

SCOTT DRAPER: I didn't feel comfortable out there at all. Just never was focusing on
the points in the match, I couldn't -- I just wasn't comfortable at all and I couldn't
think clearly, and I didn't feel like playing matches, sort of happened so quickly. It was
a big blur and -- but it's experience I suppose and I will look at it like that and it
will benefit me in the future I suppose.

Q. The court with the conditions out there with the crowed, was that a concern or was
it blustery or was it just generally you weren't --

SCOTT DRAPER: The ball seemed to be fine on that court. I only struggled to keep the
ball inside the baseline. Maybe I wasn't hitting enough top spin or something but it just
felt like it wasn't flying off my racquet, and I lost confidence and got nervous and
didn't feel comfortable in any stage of the match. And it's probably the easiest third
round that Michael will have to play, I'd say.

Q. What attitude did you take into the game; what did you plan to do?

SCOTT DRAPER: I mean, I was -- went out there expecting to serve a little bit better
which would get me the point for a start. And I was going to try to mix it up, serve
volley a little, and I didn't do that because I wasn't making first serves at all. And I
tried to keep the ball deep on both sides, high, I think he likes it in the hitting zone
and I wanted to keep it above his shoulders and wait for an opportunity to hit the ball
way in. And I just never got into the rhythm at all and I wasn't concentrating enough as I
should. And the bottom line is I wasn't comfortable out there, I couldn't think clearly.

Q. In the third round U.S. Open, fourth round French Open, it's not been a bad year.

SCOTT DRAPER: It's been funny the way this year's gone for me. That doesn't take away
from the fact that I'm absolutely pretty much livid about my performance out there. You
know, I'll say a great effort third round, but the bottom line is I was playing a tennis
match out there and it was an absolute disgrace, and it's certainly something that I'll
remember and, you know, it will benefit me in the future, I think. At the moment I just
want to tend to forget about it.

Q. One more question. Just what can you do about a performance like that when you feel
so bad about it, you just turn around and start again?

SCOTT DRAPER: Well, I'm going to go home and that will help. I've been on the road for
five months and it will be good to get home and play some golf and see my family. And it's
certainly not going to affect me long-term or any, it's just in the next -- I don't take
long to get over things, it will probably be -- the next day or so I'll be upset about it,
but it's only a tennis match and some people have a lot of other problems than I have, so,
you know, no worries.

Q. Thanks. 

SCOTT DRAPER: Thank you.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT