ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL
March 6, 2021
Jazz Janewattananond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. (Question about hole-in-one.)
 JAZZ JANEWATTANANOND:   I was a member here for four months during the COVID last year and I didn't have one hole-in-one here.  So it's good to have in a tournament and it's very special to have a Mastercard donating 200,000 to Arnie's Foundation.
 Q. Talk us through the shot.  I think it was a 6-iron?
 JAZZ JANEWATTANANOND:   Yes, it's a 6.  I was between a hard 7 and a soft 6.  And my caddie was just nudging me into the soft 6 and the rest is history.
 Q. Since you were a member here for a month during COVID --
 JAZZ JANEWATTANANOND:   I was like for five, four, five months.
 Q. Pretty much through the summer.  Mastercard donating $200,000 to the foundation, how much does that mean, knowing that you were around here for a little while as a member?
 JAZZ JANEWATTANANOND:   Yeah, it's great because I know Roy personally and he's the one who give me the invite to come to play here for this event, so it's really good to be able to give back to that.
 Q. Let's talk about your round.  How would you assess it otherwise around the approach shots?
 JAZZ JANEWATTANANOND:   The round was very choppy at the end and choppy at the start as well.  The middle was pretty good.  Pretty, overall pretty happy with the tough course and tough condition.
 Q. If you had to have one focus for tomorrow to make a run up the leaderboard, what would it be?
 JAZZ JANEWATTANANOND:   I think we might get a little bit more sun tomorrow, so the golf course might play a bit different, we can go at more pins than today.  So, yeah, just same plan is really try to hit the fairway, try to hit the green.
 Q. Talk about, you mentioned being a member here for four or five months, you played in West Florida like mini-tour events.  What did that experience help you maybe like -- obviously your knowledge around here.
 JAZZ JANEWATTANANOND:   I mean, there's home course knowledge that helps in the fact here for sure.  I must have played over a hundred rounds here in shoot-out like they have it every day with all the members and we kind of had fun and it's great.  Just learning the culture here as well.
 Q. Was it great kind of just spending some time in America during the quarantine, being able to just continue to play golf and compete?
 JAZZ JANEWATTANANOND:   Yeah, I mean I'm really fortunate because once last year when the PLAYERS got cancelled after round 1, Thailand border was closed so I didn't have anywhere to go, so I called my friend up Daniel Chopra, who I'm staying with this week as well, asking if I could stay with him for a few days and it turned into a few months.  So it's a great story.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT