ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2021
Dani Holmqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Dani, nice 2-under 70 to start off the 2021 ANA Inspiration.  You had an eventful first nine, which was the back nine.  You had a double bogey on 10 and then you had four birdies and one other blemish on there.  Take us through how you started on the first nine and how you settled down and found a groove on the front?
 DANI HOLMQVIST:   Yeah, not a very pretty start.  I hit a little bit of a hook and ended up behind a tree.  Had to chip out and then it wasn't pretty from there either.  Managed to bounce back with a couple birdies and got the putter going a little bit.
 Course is in great shape.  Just enjoying playing every single hole.
 Q. We mentioned before this that you played here last year but withdrew about halfway through, and you spent time here for Q-School.  What is some of the memories you've been able to draw on from experience to help you prepare for this week?
 DANI HOLMQVIST:   I honestly don't remember Q-School.  It was first stage pretty much right after college.  Last year wasn't great.  I came off leaving the British, played okay, and then kind of reinjured my back a little bit and kind of struggled and struggled, and just got into the field and tried to play.
 This has been the major I was looking forward to the most just watching on TV growing up.  Last year was tough and I played one of my better friends on tour, and she walked up to me after 12 holes and said, Dani, I see that you really want to do this, but you can't do this to yourself.
 So it was tough memories.  It was nice walking past her today, hitting a drive past the place I withdrew.  Yeah, just trying to build on a good day.
 Q. Yeah, building some new memories here.
 DANI HOLMQVIST:   Yep.
 Q. You said watching on TV and this was the major you wanted to play in.  Was there a specific time or memory from watching that stands out in your mind and you were like that's the moment that the ANA needs to be on my list?
 DANI HOLMQVIST:   I think the course condition has always been looking so fantastic on TV just watching it.  I remember this time I was always in college and I would sit there and watch this after classes.  I never got to play it as an amateur and always wanted to.  We had some good history with some Swedes doing well here, so this major was always in the news at home so cool to come out here and play it myself.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT