U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2018
Cole Hammer
Garrett Barber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys actually trailed for once.  That had to feel different, huh?  
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, I think it sparked us.  We weren't used to that.  Kind of woke us up from the little trance that we were in.   
 Q.  Who eagled 4?  
COLE HAMMER: I did.   
GARRETT BARBER: We had one this morning.   
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, he eagled 6 this morning.   
 Q.  Did you reach in two on 4?  
COLE HAMMER: Reached it in two.  I had about a 15-footer for eagle, yeah.   
 Q.  I think you guys now are 14, 15-under par in match play and obviously the 9-under in stroke play.  
COLE HAMMER: That's not too bad.  We'll take it.   
 Q.  I know you guys are accomplished players, but that's off the charts, especially on a difficult golf course.  
GARRETT BARBER: Yeah, we've just had a good relationship with each other.   
 Q.  The eagle on the 6th hole this morning, who made the putt?  
GARRETT BARBER: I did.  I was about 40 feet up the hill.   
 Q.  Did you know the guys you were playing with this morning?  
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, I actually had never meet either of them.  They both live in Dallas.  I hadn't met them but I had heard a lot about them.  We knew it was going to be a tough match, and it was a tough match.  They really played well on the front nine.  They made a couple mistakes on the back, which kind of gave us a little bit of a lead, but they were our toughest match yet.   
 Q.  Carried your own bags up and down those hills.  I know you guys are young, but this is not an easy course to walk.  Any thoughts of getting a caddie?  
COLE HAMMER: We thought about it, but at the end of the day, we just figured we'd rather not have anyone get in our way.  We've carried our bags a lot throughout junior golf and figured no point in changing it.  We're a little tired right now, but that's -- we just played 36 holes.  That's going to happen no matter if we're carrying it or not.   
 Q.  And potentially 36 more tomorrow.  
COLE HAMMER: I guess so.   
 Q.  How were the conditions out there?  At least it didn't rain hard today.  
GARRETT BARBER: Yeah, it was kind of soft.  It was -- the wind died down maybe a little bit this afternoon, but it played pretty similar to this morning and played pretty similar to other days.  I mean, pins were tough today, so yeah, I mean, we were just happy to hit some good shots and have a lot of putts.   
 Q.  You guys won four holes in a six-hole stretch there after they birdied 6, Lee hit a good shot into 7 --  
COLE HAMMER: 7 was huge.  I think that was the turning point.  They won 6, we didn't make birdie.  On 7, he hit it in there tight, and then I hit it in there, didn't think I was as close as him, but it turned out I was a little closer, and he missed and I made, and that flipped the momentum.  We won the next hole with par.  8 was playing brutal.  And then won 11 and 12, also, and that snowballed.   
 Q.  When you're 4-up with six to play, the way you guys have been playing, did you feel like all you have to do is get it in the house and not do anything stupid?  
GARRETT BARBER: Yeah, I mean, 15 was -- they made like a 35-footer.  14 they made a good par, too, so 15 made a 35-footer.   
 Q.  Who made the five-footer on top of him?  
COLE HAMMER: It wasn't five, it was like 12.   
 Q.  Who made the 35 footer?  
COLE HAMMER: Zach Atkinson.   
 Q.  And then I guess on 16 you guys hit it tight?  
GARRETT BARBER: I hit it tight on 16.  I was about three feet.  Brad was at the back of the green, had about 30 feet straight down the hill.  Zach was just short in the rough, and they were just like, we'll just give it to you.  They said they didn't want to waste any daylight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT