VIZIO FIESTA BOWL: BOISE STATE v ARIZONA
December 29, 2014
Dan Pettinato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions.

Q.   (No microphone.)
DAN PETTINATO:   They've been playing definitely good defense.   It all depends on who really prepared the best, who shows up that day.   That's really how all college football has seemed this year. 

Q.   College football has changed so much.   It's almost like if the losing team doesn't have 30 points, it's a surprise.   It's the nature of the game. 
DAN PETTINATO:   Times are changing.   But, yeah, that's what I've noticed, too.   I think in the end it's really who shows up that day, so... 

Q.   How do you think this break has helped?   Healthier?   Sometimes getting away for a month can help. 
DAN PETTINATO:   You mean from our last game? 

Q.   Yes. 
DAN PETTINATO:   Yeah, no, we call it bowl camp because it's 15 more practices. 
I think it's really paid off.   The first couple weeks we go back and do all our technique stuff, kind of remind ourselves, because that's how we started in the beginning.   Closer to the game, we started to get into the scheme of things. 
I think that's helped a lot of us recover from the season.   It's been a long grind.   I know I've been banged up through the season.   But I feel good now. 
It's part of the game.   We just got to focus on the next week.   Injuries, they come and go, but it's all part of the game. 

Q.   Do you think that was a factor against Oregon?
DAN PETTINATO:   I don't know if it was that.   It could have.   But I think Oregon, they played really well that game.   They showed up. 
Yeah, I mean, the outcome wasn't how we wanted it.   It's a good learning experience.   You can learn so much from a loss.   I think that's helped us the last few weeks practicing.   It gave us motivation.   We wanted to end the season on a win, so... 

Q.   You have a chance to have a much better end to your season. 
DAN PETTINATO:   I watched this bowl growing up a lot.   It's been here for a long time.   I couldn't be more happy to play here in the Fiesta Bowl. 

Q.   You have a friend who plays for Boise State.   What is that like?
DAN PETTINATO:   It's awesome.   I heard he was sitting in this seat (laughter). 
It's been awesome.   We've been good friends.   We actually are from the same high school.   I played with his older brother Zach.   Tanner moved up our senior year.   I knew he was going to be a good player. 
Every time I went back home, watched a few games, you could tell he was a star out there. 
Funny story, I've been telling a lot of other people, Zach gave us a ride to the airport in Sacramento.   It's cool.   We're really close off the field. 
Playing against each other just adds to the hype of the game, adds to more competitiveness.   That's the thing, it's a little different just 'cause we're both on defense. 

Q.   Trying to defend what they do, from what you've seen on film, what are going to be the key things?
DAN PETTINATO:   Well, they've got a running quarterback and a passing quarterback.   That's always going to cause trouble.   They have a really good runningback that doesn't want to go to the ground.   He's always running with his shoulder pads low. 
I think the key to that would be tackling.   We're going to have to be able to contain, so... 

Q.   He's completed 70% of his passes, which seems kind of crazy. 
DAN PETTINATO:   Extremely accurate. 

Q.   Interception issues for a while, but seems like he's been clean for a while. 
DAN PETTINATO:   Our defense is going to have to do really well on pass‑rush.   We're going to have to disrupt him.   We can't let him sit in the pocket and choose who he wants to throw it to.   We have to get in the pocket and cause trouble. 

Q.   When you have a quarterback that can run, keeps you on your toes. 
DAN PETTINATO:   Yeah. 

Q.   It's balance, I guess. 
DAN PETTINATO:   Yeah, no, I mean, we've seen a few teams like this in the PAC.   Really the key is we're going to have to tackle well.   If we're going to give them yards after the hit, it's going to hurt us all game, so... 

Q.   They have a kid named McNichols, No.13, freshman kid.   Have you noticed him on film at all?
DAN PETTINATO:   You know, a little bit.   But I've really been paying attention to the offensive line, the quarterbacks, the runningbacks, you know.   I'm not sure. 
He's a receiver, right? 

Q.   Yes. 
DAN PETTINATO:   I'm not really paying a lot of attention to a lot of the receivers. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT