VIZIO FIESTA BOWL: BOISE STATE v ARIZONA
December 27, 2014
Dan Pettinato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
DAN PETTINATO:   Back in high school, he was a few years younger.   But he moved up to varsity for the playoffs.   I played with him a little bit. 
I knew the way his brother played, so I knew he was going to play like that.   I knew he was going to be a big‑time recruit.   I was trying to get him to Arizona.   I think Arizona was the first offer he had.   I was really trying to push him. 
He made his own decision, probably the best decision for him and his family.   I couldn't be happier for him and happier to play him in this bowl game. 

Q.   Not a big area.   Having two guys playing in the Fiesta Bowl?
DAN PETTINATO:   I think Tanner and I are the last two to get Division I scholarships out of football since I played, and that was back in 2009. 
It's huge.   Brings our community together.   I got a lot of high school coaches, a few people from Grass Valley coming out.   It's awesome.   They both get to see us play in the same game.

Q.   Played for the same coach?
DAN PETTINATO:   Coach Humphries.   After I left, there was a coaching change two years ago.   Actually, yeah. 

Q.   Who are they going to be rooting for?
DAN PETTINATO:   Just vote for defense (laughter). 
I think that coaching change was after Tanner, so... 

Q.   Hang out together at all when you were home for Christmas?
DAN PETTINATO:   Both of our families met together, talked with the local newspaper reporter.   We got to talk a little bit, so it was good seeing him. 

Q.   Weird at all?   You don't have to play on the other side of the ball, so that helps. 
DAN PETTINATO:   I think it adds to the competitiveness.   I think it adds just to the hype of the game.   It makes it like a little bit of a rivalry for us.   We're always talking trash, but like friendly. 
We'll see who his older brother roots for.   He said, Good luck, to both of us, so... 

Q.   How much are you going to track what he's done this year? 
DAN PETTINATO:   I've been trying to watch a lot of his games.   I think a few of their games were before ours, so I've been sitting in the hotel watching him play. 
Man, I've seen him working his tail off.   I saw him scoop and score for touchdowns, I saw big hits.   I couldn't be more happy for him. 

Q.   Did you see the pick‑six?
DAN PETTINATO:   That's what it was, yeah.   So, yeah, I watched all those, man.   It's awesome seeing a guy from a small town perform so well. 

Q.   What was it like being back home? 
DAN PETTINATO:   It was awesome.   I haven't been home in seven months.   So, I mean, it was good seeing everyone.   Everyone comes back for Christmas.   I'm seeing people I haven't seen in a few years, high school buddies.   Everyone is wishing us good luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT