NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 19, 2016
Dean Heil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined by NCAA 141-pound champion Dean heal of Oklahoma State.  Dean, a general statement about the match.
DEAN HEIL: You know, I knew Bryce was going to be tough and I knew he was going to be a goer, you know, but none of the other competitors, I didn't overlook them.  To be honest the first day of weigh-ins I was looking through the line, looking through the line.  I looked at him and I was like, you know, deep down he's a dark horse.  And I had a feeling he was going to make it through.  The next thing he does, and tough match.  But one takedown was enough to seal the deal.
Q. I've been following you since middle school.  And it's amazing what you've come through, St. Edward, now Oklahoma State.  Was this just natural, this was destined?  Every program you've gone to you've had great success.  What's the main driving force behind you and winning all the time everywhere you go?
DEAN HEIL: You know, kind of one of the main driving forces is the (indiscernible) plan is simple:  Nobody ever likes me.  Nobody ever likes me, nobody ever gives me the respect I feel I deserve.  And ever since middle school, ever since you've been watching me, every year people always projecting other people to beat me.  It took me three years to finally be projected to win state, even though I was the three-time state champ.  I was always projected to lose at Super 32, and I was always projected to be second, always projected to be third.  That always drives me.  Going into this tournament, being the 1 seed, I was projected to lose by National, by McKenna (phonetic), by Ward (phonetic).  That is what drives me, always having people doubt me.  And maybe this time it will make people stop doubting me.  But it won't stop the fire burning inside.  I'll always remember the people who always have my back.  I'll always remember the people that doubted me from the beginning, and that will drive me from eighth grade until forever.  That's why, because nobody ever liked me.
Q. Dean, you talked a little bit earlier in the week about getting more mature and growing into the wrestler you are now.  Do you feel that that growth made a big difference in a close Finals match?  This is when you've really got to use all the resources at your hand?
DEAN HEIL: Yeah.  You know, year and a half ago I was contemplating leaving the sport.  Then all of a sudden I get Coach Smith on my back and he starts pushing me and pushing me.  The Dean Heil a year ago probably would have gave up two or three more stall calls.  But Dean Heil this year, the more mature Dean Heil, he only gave up one stall call, but he knew to push those last 30 seconds.  He knew to stay aggressive, to make sure that I finished the match.  The maturity definitely played a role in this match.
Q. Why were you contemplating leaving the sport?
DEAN HEIL: There were a lot of personal issues going on in my life.  I'd rather not go into that.  But there was just a lot going on between personal life and the wrestling life, both.  So it was just a combination of a bunch of things.
Q. Four-time Ohio State champion, decision to go to Oklahoma State.  I know Tom Ryan said he wanted to box it in.  Clearly he didn't with you.  Now you're the national champ for Oklahoma State.  Why did you go there?
DEAN HEIL: Because I always wanted to go to Oklahoma State when I was little.  I always wanted it.  But I don't think Tom Ryan pushed enough.  If he wanted me as bad as they claim they did, they would have made more, been more attentive at trying to get me, like Coach Smith did, and that's what got my attention.  I felt wanted.
Q. You've qualified for the Olympic Trial.  Do you plan to go to Iowa City in a few weeks?
DEAN HEIL: At the beginning of the season, you know, Coach Smith always, he came in one day and he's like -- he goes Ohio State has a 19-year-old who just won worlds.  Why can't my team have something like that?  And I pulled Coach Smith aside after a week of thinking about it, I'm like, I want to be that guy, Coach.  So right now I feel pretty motivated to go.  There's a good chance that I will.  I'll talk it over with Coach Smith one more time, see how he feels.  But as of right now I want to go.
Q. Since you said you've always been counted out and the underdog so many times, what is your message, what lesson can you draw from this, particularly for young people that are getting involved with wrestling?
DEAN HEIL: Just because you're always counted out, just because people don't think you're the best, doesn't mean you can't believe in yourself.  You've got to believe in yourself.  Growing up I had a coach, Jim Hewitt, after every practice he'd be, like, who is number one in the world?  Who is the best guy out there?  And I would always say, I am, Coach; I'm number one in the world.  And just hearing myself say that every day was something that made me grow as a wrestler to realize I'm as good as everybody else, if not better.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT