ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2018
Corentin Moutet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GOFFIN/C. Moutet
7-5, 6-0, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. You started very well.  Why were you not able to win the first set?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, why?  He's nine in the world, so the level was there.  He's a better player than myself in terms of level in every aspect of the game.  I tried my best to overcome and to reign in the match and to be offensive, more aggressive than him.  I was able to do so during a certain time.
Physically, today, and also at my age, I haven't worked enough with respect to him, and I had difficulties physically.  And so it's not easy to put the intensity I have put until 5-2 for the entire match.  So that is what is lacking right now.
I played very well.  I made him miss during the beginning and then he played better.  I had a few balls out and then the situation changed.
Of course, I'm disappointed to lose, but he's just a better player than I am.
Q. After this result, are you saying to yourself the efforts in training, of your family, especially financially, made you stay on the right track and reimbursing the effort people have made for you?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Are we talking only about financial aspects?  It's a very financial question.  It's just to understand what I have to answer.
I think it's a quite interesting check.  I don't know the exact amount.  70,000.
Q. Well, you are a talented player, and up to now it hasn't paid so much.  In junior, you had a bad temper.  Your family has invested a lot in you.  And here, winning a first round in Roland Garros and receiving this check, maybe you will say, I'm close to erasing the errors of the past.
CORENTIN MOUTET: I've made no mistake, although I'm not always good-tempered.  I made no mistakes.  We have ups and downs like anyone.
And, no, I don't want to erase anything in the past.  All the past I have had, I accept it and I take -- well, I accept what I've done.  I tried to avoid thinking about what has happened in the past, to look further ahead.
And so it's not the check that will make me continue working.  It's more to continue winning matches and losing less matches.  That's what will boost me to continue training and winning more matches than the ones I'm losing.
Q. The priority to work with Laurent is beyond the physical aspects, as you mentioned.  Maybe your serve, to try to have a better -- a bit more first serves and improving your first serve?
CORENTIN MOUTET: I have the impression of hearing a point of view and a question at the same time.  Apparently, for you, I have to work on my serve.
But well, indeed, I have to improve in every aspect of the game: serving, forehands.  I'm still a young player.  I'm not perfect and I'll never be perfect, unfortunately.
But I have all the aspects to improve.  Service of course.  But I think I have a good margin for progression in all the aspects of the game.
So I'm not at 100 percent in all my shots, so I have to improve all my shots, including service, but also other shots.
Q. When you play against a top 10 player in the world and you're a young player, you learn a lot because there's a mirror effect.  What did you learn?  Often it shows your own limits.  What did you see today and you said to yourself, Well, I have this and this and this to improve?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, it's absolutely true.  I try to learn a lot from my opponents because often they are better seeded.  They have a longer career than myself.
Here I was playing against one of the best players in the world, so I tried to learn.  I was a bit the pupil.  Although I made everything to win, I tried to learn from him, from how he managed the match; how he was playing.
So learning a lot and it was very useful.  Although I lost the next sets 6-Love, 6-1, I learned a lot.  And it will be very useful for the future, thanks to him, of course.
Q. You hadn't trained with him?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, I have trained once with him, but it's totally different.
Q. You've won your first match in a Grand Slam and on the main circuit.  What is your objective for the end of the season and the rest?
CORENTIN MOUTET: In terms of classification results, nothing special, nothing at all, because I made an excellent end of season at the end of last year.  I had a lot of points this summer.
So it would be stupid to set objectives in terms of ranking.  I will set myself objectives in terms of progress in the game.  And if I progress in the game, I will certainly improve my ranking.  If it's not by the end of the year, it will be next year.
I'm not in a hurry, the ranking and the pure results.  If one day I'm able to play like the opponent I had in front of me, tomorrow or in two years, I will have the same ranking.  It's just a question of level and commitment and desire to train.
If I'm able to do that as often as possible, I'll be a good player.
Q. Building a career, you think about the longer term.  When you see a player like David Goffin and you can be close to him, because you're not the tallest or the strongest, but you're robust from the baseline, is he a player who is inspiring you, or you think you have different assets and you want to be different than him?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Yes, of course, I try to draw inspiration from all the players in the circuit, from the 100 to the first.  They all have something to teach me.  I try to use all them.  When I see them training, I have the chance of being next to them in the practice or during the tournaments.
David, I'm not at his level.  I see him very few times on the tournaments.  Today, I had the chance of playing against him.  I learned a lot.  He taught me a lot of things, a lot of maturity.  I'm not going to list all of them.  But all the players I play against or I see, I try to learn from them.
And I think we have to all look up, and for the sport it will be beneficial if everyone is trying to learn from each other.  It will be beneficial.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT