ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Corentin Moutet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. MOUTET/I. Karlovic
7-6, 6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. It's your first victory in the big board of Roland Garros.  How do you feel getting through this first round?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, I'm trying to realize, obviously it's a good performance, and I'm happy I won in that first round, but as I was saying earlier, I worked throughout the year to be able to be there in those moments and to be present.  So it's a bit of a reward for my work.  But obviously I beat a player who was better ranked, and it's gratifying.
Q. Karlovic, you're doing well when you play against him.  It must be complicated to play him.  It's frustrating, because when he serves the three first balls in the game, you must be patient.  It must be difficult.
CORENTIN MOUTET: It's not easy.  Obviously everything relies on me.  Many things rely on him.  Obviously if he gets his first ball through, it's difficult.  Sometimes you can't play.  You depend on your opponent.  You get the impression you have no control over the match.
But there are key moments when you can get the control of the match, and that's when you've got to be present.  It's not easy.  There's not many rallies.
As soon as you have a good rally, you must be able to seize the tiny occasions and tiny opportunities.  It's not easy.
Q. Is that what you're most proud of, being able to remain extremely zen and never frustrated?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Yes, obviously it's a pride.  I'm happy, because I had ups and downs this year, since the beginning of this season, beginning of the year, and obviously at moments you're doing better or worse.
But I continue working continuously, and I'm doing better.  I try to improve.  And even if I manage to keep cool and to remain emotionally stable today, it's never something you should take for granted.
I'm happy.  I made many efforts today, but the result is there.  I'm rewarded directly for my efforts.
Q. What was the role of the audience, of the public today in this match?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, they supported me a lot.  I wasn't surprised, but it has very rarely happened to me in my young career to have the public behind me like this, to have so many people supporting me.
Obviously it gives you very deep emotions, and these are rare moments.  You should have them in your mind, keep them in your mind, memorize them, and it's very strong.  I felt a lot of emotions on the court, whether it be at the end of the match or in the first set, second set, throughout the match, let's say.
No, a lot of emotions.
Q. Such a victory in Roland Garros before your public.  Is it a dream come true?  It's not an end per se, is it?
CORENTIN MOUTET: It's both.  It's both a dream come true, but it's not an end per se.  My objective was to come back stronger.
Last year I made a lot of efforts, but I was really tense.  I didn't manage to enjoy the match.
So my objective this year was to overcome my stress and to get the right emotions, because it's great to see people coming to see you play.  But in terms of emotions, it's not easy to live.
It was my objective to be able to face these situations.  So on the one hand you have to enjoy it, and on the other hand, it's difficult not to enjoy it too much and not to be out of the match.
Q. A technical level, if you analyze the match, apart from those key moments you mentioned, you did a lot of winner passing shots.  Were you surprised by the fact that you were able to do these winning passing shots?  You took many risks, but when you had the opportunity of getting a passing shot through, it was a winner.
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, you're giving me your opinion about the match.  I'm listening.  But it's a pleasure.
Q. No, it's my feeling, but do you approve what I said?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Yes, thank you.
Q. I felt your quality of passing shot was good and that's the way you won the match.
CORENTIN MOUTET: It's easier to get them inside the court than outside obviously if you want to win the match.  What can I tell you?  I don't know what to tell you, really.
First of all, I'm very happy you're telling me that.  It's a great pleasure for me to hear that.  And, well, yes, yes, I managed to shoot good passing shots.
I don't know what else to tell you.
Q. You were talking about management of emotions, taking control, et cetera.  Do you have the impression that when you play a match you have two things to manage?  First of all, the tactical or technical aspect with your opponent?  And also the controlling your emotions, what takes over from time to time?  Do you think more about I have to play a cross ball or I have to play deep, or is it more important for you to say I have to keep cool and breathe?
CORENTIN MOUTET: It's rather complex, because it depends on your opponent.  To talk about today, picking the place where you want to return the ball is not easy.  First of all, you have to try and return the ball.
It's not something you think about.  I don't think you can say, I think of this or I think of that.  You try to do your best and play the tennis you've been working on.  I don't think it's played on the court.  It's more beforehand, and then when the event takes place, you have to serve it.  I guess it's the same for everyone.  It's more kind of instinctive thing when you're in the match.  The work comes before.
So there is not too much reflection on my part, because the only thing you can control is the state you're in and trying to play your match as best as possible and being in the best state possible.
For the rest, it's difficult to take control of the match, because you have an opponent who is also playing his match.
Q. If I'm not mistaken, you're playing again on Wednesday.  Are you going to be careful about how you manage these two days?  Are you going to come here or are you going to disappear from the stadium?  Are you going to practice?  Are you going to rest?  Are you very careful about that?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Yes, I'm going to be careful.  I won't go to a discotheque until 6:00 a.m.; I will go home at 4:00 a.m.
No, joking aside, I will be very careful, as I do every day.  I will try not to go to bed too late, which is not easy, and I'll try to eat a balanced diet.  No, I'm not going to be more careful than I am usually, as in all tournaments you try to go to bed early, eat well, not spend too much time on-site so as not to squander your energy, but even though it's a Grand Slam, it's "a tournament like any other" in the way you tackle the matches.
Q. Over these two days, what are you going to read to relax?  What is the novel or the poem which is most appropriate for such a situation?
CORENTIN MOUTET: It's difficult to read and to tell you, because I'm watching a series, and then I will go back to reading.  I'm not reading throughout the day, I must say.  It's not the image I want to give, and it wouldn't be the truth, so I don't want to mislead you.
I do read from time to time, and occasionally, but it's not a regular thing.  There are moments.  And at the time I'm watching a series, so I want to finish watching it.
Q. Which series?
CORENTIN MOUTET: The "13 Reasons Why."  I'm trying to have the right accent.
Q. Talking about your next match, supposing David Goffin goes through, wins the first round, you would be playing David.  What comes to your mind?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Whether I play him or the other, or his opponent, they are better ranked than I am so I'll try to play my best tennis.  Depending on my opponent, I will adapt my tactics.
But I will try to play my match.  But he hasn't won yet.  He hasn't lost yet.  He's playing tonight, I believe.  So I'll see.
I have never played any of them.  Yes, I did play his opponent once, but that was a long time ago.  So I will play my match, and I'll see if he's stronger or not.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT