ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 30, 2019
Corentin Moutet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/C. Moutet
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. How do you look back on your match? Do you feel bitter because you didn't have the upper hand during this match?
CORENTIN MOUTET: I'm disappointed. I enjoyed myself playing very much against Novak with the crowd which cheered us.
I cannot say that I'm satisfied because I lost. And I did have opportunities. I don't know how to qualify it, but there are a few opportunities that I missed, but next time.
Otherwise, I gave it all, all the energy that I could take from the crowd. The only problem is the disappointment from losing.
Q. You said that you watched videos yesterday. What was the objective?
CORENTIN MOUTET: I had nothing to prove. I went on court to enjoy myself. That was my goal.
But this type of player doesn't make mistakes. I had a game plan that I had set in my mind that I wanted to unroll. Somehow, I bothered him during the first set, less during the second, but there were a few patterns that bothered him. That means that I had the right tactic.
I had thought out the strategy well, but it wasn't enough. I still have to accomplish a lot of work to reach that game level as often as possible.
I had a good game level, but it was not enough to play that type of a player.
Q. Yesterday you said that you hadn't seen him that well. Is that why maybe you didn't have that much pressure to play a No. 1 player?
CORENTIN MOUTET: I did have pressure. As for every match, every player that I played this year, I had pressure, not less, not more.
I really wanted to play him. I did watch videos before playing him but nothing really changed in the way I anticipated the match. He's just better ranked. He won more slams than others. The only thing that changed is the opponent in front of him. I was the same person. I just had to be myself.
Q. I don't know if you heard, but at the end of the match it seemed that he didn't feel well. Did you feel that on the court?
CORENTIN MOUTET: I didn't really pay attention on the way he felt, to be honest. He did make a few mistakes. We're used to seeing him making less mistakes, but I played as I tried. I tried to disrupt him.
But we all have our ups and downs. This is the same for everyone. Maybe he felt less good today. He's the only one to know that. It's not my problem, should I say.
Q. Can you tell us about the tween lob that you managed to succeed to have at the beginning of the second set?
CORENTIN MOUTET: What did I have in my mind? Well, it was the only option. I did a lot of passing shots and he answered with a volley. I tried lobs. And it's not that I thought about it. I had no choice. I had a fraction of a second to make a decision. I tried to do it.
It's a nice shot, but it's just one point in the end. It's not that important ultimately.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT