ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 29, 2019
Corentin Moutet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. MOUTET/D. Lajovic   
6-4, 1-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  I guess you're very satisfied with this first round, this first win in a Masters 1000?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: Yes, I'm very satisfied. Then the show must go on.   
The fact that I already was on court today was a wonderful thing because I had lost initially. I tried to regain focus for this tournament, and I'm glad that I managed to get the upper hand and to continue on that path.   
 Q.  What happened in your mind actually? Because you had lost and then you became a lucky loser. What happened in your mind?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, a day passed in between. I knew I could be a lucky loser. I was number three, so three people need to retire. I knew I could still be a lucky loser and that was the case today.   
I wasn't really -- my mind was not completely off the tournament. I was waiting until Wednesday to make sure that there was no empty seat for me.   
 Q.  You're without a coach now. How do you feel being without a coach?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: It's not pleasant to be without a coach. Seldom do we see that on the tour. It's not a good thing. In the short run, it could be okay, but, in the long-run, I need to have a coach to continue working to have a sound team working alongside with me.   
I have no choice right now. I tried to do my best, but it's not easy. I'll try to find a coach as soon as possible.   
 Q.  Even if the tournament is not over yet, how would you qualify your season?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, I don't know. I don't know what to say. There were good moments. There was a first win in Grand Slam. There were new things. I played good players. I had ups and downs. It was a wide array of new experiences. I've learnt a lot this year, but the year is not over yet.   
I managed to taste new things, to discover new things that I had never discovered before. And I'll try to capitalize on these new experiences to play better, to be a better person and a better player. And I think this should be the lesson to be drawn from this year.   
 Q.  Next round is Novak Djokovic, what a challenge. The fact that you played today on the central court, do you think that it will help you for tomorrow?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, yes, for the surface already. I didn't expect to play on the central court today. I was surprised. I was very excited, very happy to play on this court. Before, I would be there as a fan, as a member of the public. Tomorrow, I will be playing there with new things coming up.   
There will be a huge crowd. Of course most of the crowd will not be cheering me. Circumstances will be different. I will have to make do.   
 Q.  I am sure that you have seen Novak play many times on TV, on court. What is most striking in his game according to you?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: I don't know really. I haven't seen him play a thousand times. I don't watch tennis that much. I will definitely do so tonight.   
What could be impressive? Well, I don't want to say that I'm impressed by him or any other player. But I have a lot of respect for his career because he's been No. 1 for many years.   
He's won a lot of Grand Slams. He's managed to find his bearings and his place among the best. He is the best player in the world. He's No. 1 right now. He's very consistent. He often wins in tournaments.   
I will try not to be unworthy and to be better than him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT