ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2019
Corentin Moutet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. LONDERO/C. Moutet   
2-6, 6-3, 6-4, 5-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Congratulations, because although you lost, congratulations on the match.  How do you exit this match?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: I lost, so I'm disappointed.  Obviously for each match I come with the ambition of winning, so I'm disappointed, obviously.  Congratulations to him.  He was better than me in the important moments.   
I lost against a good player, but I'm disappointed, because I wanted to continue.  I was ambitious for this tournament.   
 Q.  Is there a moment in the match which leaves you more regrets than another?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: Not really.  The end of the match was very close.  I could have been better in the second and third sets.  I think I could have managed better, and that's it.   
I have a few regrets, of course.  I would have liked to be better, and that's it.   
 Q.  The end of match is cruel.  He was playing the lines.  One of your lobs was really on the limit.  Regarding the umpire, what did you feel at that point?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: These are moments of tension for him and me.  The score was very tight.  It's the end of the match, so that leads to tension.   
There was incredible atmosphere, and people were really in the match like ourselves, so it created an atmosphere of tension.   
The umpire, from where I was -- I can see if it was in or out.  It's difficult to say.  He did his job.  He said the ball was out, and that's life.   
He played really well.  That's what I said before.  He played important points.  He was a good player.  I knew before playing him I had to play an excellent level to beat him, and today was not sufficient.   
 Q.  Can you tell us about the atmosphere?  Had you experienced a match with such an atmosphere?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: No, it was fabulous to have the entire crowd supporting me.  A lot of people who encouraged me, who even encouraged France, and it was beautiful to support the country.  It's important and it's beautiful to hear "Come on, France" in the audience.  It was really fantastic.   
During the three matches, they were present, they supported me.  I didn't expect to have so many people, so it really pleased me very much and it helped me a lot.  It gives me a lot of force and I tried to give them everything.  I hope I will be able to give more in the future.   
It's a very specific feeling.  It's very specific for a tennis player like this to be supported in his country.   
So thank you to the entire audience which has come during this tournament.  I would have loved to make them vibrate even more.   
 Q.  You exit this tournament by saying it's a shifting point in your career, or is it not such a major step?  It's just a continuity?  How do you exit this tournament?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: I learned a lot of things.  Like in all the tournaments I play, all the defeats, all the victories, I try to draw as many lessons as possible.  I learned a lot of things during this week.   
And I lost today, but I have a lot of work to do to win these type of matches and come back even better.  I have a lot things to work on.  I have many aspects of the game to improve.  So I come out with this feeling of having to go back to work, that I'm not strong enough, and that I have to improve in all aspects of the game to come stronger next year here and in all the future tournaments.   
 Q.  It was your third match in -- this is a five-set match.  You're not used to playing such a long match physically.  Were you surprised or did you know you'd be able to hold on to the end?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: Physically, I train every day.  We train a lot with high intensity, so I'm ready for these kinds of matches.  I think that physically I was perfect today.   
I was ready.  I was ready to play even a few hours more.  It stopped too early for me, but I was ready to continue the match.  Physically I was feeling well.  I'm feeling well right now.   
And so I would have loved to be able to show for more time that I was feeling well and I was ready.   
 Q.  What is your schedule now?  Do you have a few days of rest, or do you train immediately?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: I'll see how I manage things, but I have a tournament in one week, so I have to go back to practice to continue.  It's not a final point this week.  It's a tournament which takes two weeks in a year, and there are many other tournaments.   
So I'll return to practice maybe tomorrow or the day after, I don't know yet, but we'll carry on working.   
 Q.  You said you learned a lot of things in new detail.  Is it physically, in terms of managing your emotions, the level you have with respect to other players?  
CORENTIN MOUTET: It's difficult to put precise words on what I have learned.  I finished my match not so long ago, so it's quite vague or blurry.   
But it's true that I will come out of this match with many lessons learned, to have regrets and disappointment, I could have played better, managed some moments better.   
But having had these moments, having the support of the audience, that will give me a lot of energy for the future.   
I will have learned a lot of things on myself during this match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT