ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2019
Corentin Moutet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. MOUTET/A. Vatutin
6-4, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Two French tournaments.  Twice the first tour.  It went well last year.  This year was Vatutin.  He served twice for the set in the second set and he was leading in the tiebreak and you remained in the match and you ended up winning the set.
CORENTIN MOUTET: It was a rather tense match, especially for the second set, as you said.  I knew I had a good player in front of me.  It wasn't easy to play such a player.
On paper, you get the impression that you have a greater opportunity when you're playing against someone who went through the quallies, but I had to make a lot of efforts to remain in the second set to win, and I had to make an effort throughout the match to continue playing well, remaining aggressive, trying to dominate the rallies.  It went well in the second and third set.  And it was cool.
Q. What is most satisfying for you in your game in this victory?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, everything I had to do to end up winning, as I said, there were lots of tense moments when the score was very close.  I was behind, in fact, in the second and the third.
He was one break ahead, so it was rather complex.  He plays rather fast, so he gave me quite a lot of difficulties today, and I'm satisfied I managed to overcome this, thanks to my efforts.  And also, because I believed in it all the way, and I fought.
Q. Can you tell us a little bit about your work with Emmanuel and your attitude on the court?  We see you're much more in control, much more relaxed.  Zen.  Can you tell us a little bit about what he brings to you and how you work?  Do you feel more in control on the court?
CORENTIN MOUTET: I feel good.  He makes me work hard, and I'm ready to work hard.  I'm willing to work hard.  Every day the two of us try to do our best, and we spend hours and hours repeating positive elements, and it's the right track.
We still have a lot of work to do, and we still have a lot of ground to cover, but we're working hard and we try to improve, especially on the attitude, as you said.  But the main thing is to continue working, and for that, he's extremely serious and I try to be as serious as possible, as well.
So what he brings me is the amount of work, and I'm very satisfied.
Q. Emmanuel is someone who is very verbal, who is rather philosophical, likes to communicate.  Is that important for you to speak outside the court, to talk about your feelings and to install a trusted relationship with your coach?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, you know, we all have different relationships with our coaches.  You can't say there is a miracle relationship or miracle solution.  It depends on each and every one of us.
Each person works differently.  I don't know what more to tell you.  I'm sorry, but he's a good coach.  He's proven it in the past.  And as I said, now we do our best to be good every day or to be less bad sometimes.  That's the most important thing.
Q. Getting away from your personal case, you turned 20 not long ago.  Is it still possible to win a Grand Slam at the age of 20?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Me or in general?
Q. No, in general.
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, I don't know if it's possible.  You have to do it, and once it's done it will be possible.  I don't know what to answer.  Is it possible?  Well, I don't know.  What do you think (smiling)?
Well, I do think it's possible.  There are very good players my age.  Even Felix, who is one year younger, is a very good player.  I don't know how old Tsitsipas is or players that rank very well and who beat the best, the top players, but now you have to still beat the top players.
Q. Would you say the problem is just the three top players, or is it that you need a lot of experience to go far in a Grand Slam?
CORENTIN MOUTET: The problem is that many players play well.  The level is very dense, and there is no place for everyone.  Grand Slam is four times a year with one winner every time, so for the moment, it's always the same that are winning.
But then it's up to us, the other players, to try and displace them and try to win the tournaments.  But there are many players, and it's a complicated question.  Anyone could win it.  But anyway, it's always the same winning it.  So it's up to the other players to go and get the Grand Slam titles and win the tournaments.
Q. Coming back to your personal case, what is your main goal or main project at the time?
CORENTIN MOUTET: Well, with a young player as I am, I don't think you could say there is a big project or one specific thing to be worked on.  I think everything should be improved.  It's rather general.  As far as I'm concerned, when you're young, you're building everything.  You have to improve everything.  So I wouldn't say it's one thing in particular.  Everything is work in progress, really.
It's like for other players, even the older ones, but when you're young, you have to build everything.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT