GREATER HICKORY CLASSIC AT ROCK BARN
September 13, 2008
R.W. Eaks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: R.W., you follow-up 61 with a bogey-free 68 today and no bogies through 36 holes. You're in the same position at 15 under that you were here at Rock Barn last year. Just a couple thoughts about your round today? Tom sort of told us about the first two holes, and he thought you were off and running again. But nevertheless, you played the next 16 at 2 under, and you're tied.
 R.W. EAKS: I quit hitting it a foot. That's what happened. The first two holes I hit it about a foot and a half on the first hole and about 6 inches on the second hole.

 Q. What clubs there?
 R.W. EAKS: I hit a utility wedge on number 1 and a 9-iron on number 2. Then my next birdie was a two-putt from about 18 feet on number 7. Then number 8 I hit it about probably inside a foot and a half, and I missed that.
 My next birdie was number 14. I made about a four and a half footer there. I hit my driver off the tee, and just kind of hit the rough on the left side, so I had to lay a chip about four and a half feet.
 That was about -- well, I made an up-and-down on 17. I hit it way left of the green. Chipped it up about 8 feet and made that. Other than that, it was a very uneventful round. At least you couldn't say I putted awful, but it's nobody's fault but my own because I just didn't get the speed of the greens today.
 I still have a chance to win the tournament, so, you've got to be pleased with where you're at.

 Q. Do you feel like tomorrow you've just got to go as low as you can given the score? You were separated a little bit, but clearly away from everybody?
 R.W. EAKS: Probably. It's probably going to take, you know, I'd say something in the 20's to win this thing. Which is pretty phenomenal. But doesn't take in the 20's very often here on this tour. Probably will this week.
 Tom's playing great. He's putting wonderful. He putted great today. You hit the ball good and you're putting good, that's why you shoot so low. He's going to be tough to beat tomorrow.

 Q. Have you played with him in the last rounds anywhere, do you remember?
 R.W. EAKS: I don't think so. We played a lot together the first two rounds. But I don't think we've played together in the last round.

 Q. Hit it close those first couple of holes? Were you thinking groundhog day type of thing, you know?
 R.W. EAKS: Not really. You know, it's just one of those things that the numbers are just perfect on the first two holes. The rest of the day it seemed like we were kind of in between clubs all day. Yesterday we had perfect yardage on every hole for whatever club we were hitting.
 But that runs in streaks when you play golf. You've got to kind of roll with the punches. At 15 under, not playing very well, that's pretty good.

 Q. Following up with the 68, that's nothing to sneeze at. But do you feel like he gave you less shots out there, and it was a little bit of a let-down or anything?
 R.W. EAKS: You know, I think I was a little let down from yesterday. You know, I had a great chance to shoot that 59 yesterday, and I didn't make it. I think that kind of rolled into today.
 Hopefully, after tonight, I'm over it really good. Because, man, that's something you just never have a chance to do. I think it bothered me more than I let on to. It kind of caught up with me when I got back to the room, I think.
 But, shoot, I love the golf course. I can't wait to play tomorrow.

 Q. Would you get a second rocking chair?
 R.W. EAKS: They tell me I will. I need another one up there. It would look good up there.

 Q. Do you have the first one at your cabin?
 R.W. EAKS: I've got it up at the cabin.

 Q. Your cabin's where?
 R.W. EAKS: It's up in the mountains of Arizona. Which sounds funny, but it's like 7500 feet. Just beautiful up there. We've got it all in Arizona.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT