ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
March 3, 2020
Javeria Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Pakistan vs. Thailand (match abandoned by rain)
Q. Like to have been given a chance there today?
JAVERIA KHAN: The conditions were quite good for the batting and we were in the game and though they scored quite a lot and they batted well. Not to take away from them and still second half was left and we were motivated that if we got into the plan, we would chase it down.
Q. After the start you made against West Indies, a very good performance, how do you sum up the tournament kind of completely now that you're finished?
JAVERIA KHAN: I think it was like [motioning] and we sometimes gained momentum and lost ourselves. Then we gained and then lost. We need to learn this, that if you're on top we should stay on top. And we need to practise it more, help us stay on top and rectify things where we're going wrong.
So I think we need to work really hard according to that because this World Cup has proven many things to us that we have improved as a team a lot and promises we have shown. But real mistakes were happening and those mistakes we need to understand and realize how it needs to be done.
Q. Pakistan has definitely improved a lot over the last four years, that everyone can see this. But there's still a big gap maintained between Pakistan and the likes of England and Australia. So even as you worked so hard, it must be frustrating to still see the gap still so wide between yourselves and the very top.
JAVERIA KHAN: Of course there is a gap. And as I said earlier, there was a time when we were in the game against them also, but we lost ourselves big. That comes from experience and it's a young squad. Not giving any excuses because whoever plays for the country is able to perform for the best. And there is a gap and as the time grows and with more matches with the good teams we'll play, we'll gradually cover the gap.
Q. Obviously a gap above you to the likes of Australia and England but one below you as well to Thailand. Do you feel that today that summed up they're closing the gaps on you, and that all teams from the top to the bottom are getting closer in ability and improving?
JAVERIA KHAN: I think it shows now in women's cricket there's a healthy competition and any team can win any match. And we shouldn't stay in denial that today they played outstandingly well. They deserve the credit in the way they played. Whatever questions we put they answered us back.
And they were the team to look forward and I think it's a lesson for all of us that nothing should be taken lightly. And we also come strong every time and we should be strong. And I'd like to congratulate Thailand team for playing so brilliantly.
Q. In terms of the bowling attacks, some bowlers have been very consistent. Diana has a great tournament. Nida Dar has been her consistent best with the ball. But others have leaked runs. I'm thinking of Amin as well specifically. Do you have the bowling group that you want yet? Do you think there's still big improvements to be made in consistency with the bowling?
JAVERIA KHAN: Improvement needs in every department, bowling, batting or fielding. Bowling, Diana was outstanding throughout. And the bowlers chipped in but not on a consistent basis.
And today was a day where no bowler except Nattaya could execute the plans well, and Diana. And our bowling was a young attack. And with more matches they'll play, they'll learn how to execute the plans.
Q. Do you think you underestimated Thailand coming into this game? Were you surprised by how aggressive they were attacking with the bat?
JAVERIA KHAN: No. I firmly believe that T20 is a game where anyone can win. And previously I was questioned that do you believe that you can win from England. And my answer was T20 is a game where any team can win. And it applies to ourselves also. And it's whoever plays good cricket on a day will win too, because the World Cup is where every good team comes to play. It's not just not that at least three teams comes to play a World Cup. And every team who is capable to fight in the World Cup comes to play.
Q. The next big ICC tournament comes in less than a year with the 50-over competition. What do you have to do now to make sure you're ready for that and to improve from not only this tournament but when you're in England and three years ago as well?
JAVERIA KHAN: We know where we lack. And it's a year's time. And we'll work hard. We'll play as many matches as we can as a group. And we'll empower girls further to analyse the situation themselves and make good judgments. And T20 was a game where if you lack behind in judgement, then the game loses.
And in 50-overs you have some time to make mistakes and you could come back. But we shouldn't give ourselves margins to make mistakes. And I think right now it's the right time to approach the World Cup and we look forward to it.
Q. In terms of yourself, you played at every single World Cup. Will we be seeing you at the next T20 World Cup?
JAVERIA KHAN: I don't know what will happen to me after two minutes. It's a far, far thought. And I can't think anything about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT