ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
March 1, 2020
Javeria Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








South Africa - 136/6, Pakistan - 119/5
Q. It's bitterly disappointing. How are you feeling at this stage?
JAVERIA KHAN: Really disappointed today. It was a much improved performance by the girls initial 16 overs. It was really good. In the last four innings of the bowling, I think we lagged behind. We were not up to the plans. We didn't execute our plans well, and the fielding lost a little bit.
Then I think batting department, we need to understand when do we have to realize when is the best time to accelerate? I think we got a bit late in accelerating, though it was a much improved performance from the girls.
Q. There's been lots of positives to take from this World Cup so far. As you mentioned, just that judgment of the run chase, is it the difference between you going on and getting into those knockout stages now?
JAVERIA KHAN: Yes, because what we have done in this tournament, we have made the match, and then we have given it to the opposite team. So we are making these kind of mistakes, though from the past the mistakes are a bit less. It's the most important factor we need to realize what needs to be done according to the situation. I think we got to it a bit late, and as more matches go, we'll play, for sure after this display, they'll understand the fact that, inshallah, it will be better in the future.
Q. What do you think could you have done differently with the ball end of your innings to stop Laura? That was a tremendous innings with a lot of power. Do you think you could have done anything differently?
JAVERIA KHAN: I think she played exceptional. She gave herself a lot of time. The wicket wasn't this easy to bat. It was a bit slower wicket. We executed our plans through 16 overs really well. We slightly got away from the plans, and when there is no fielder, then you can't stop the boundary. So where the fielders were placed, I think bowlers were not able to bowl according to net, and I think through 16 overs we were in the game, and I think we should have restricted them under 110, no more than that. It was way high according to our fielding standards and bowling standards.
Q. Did losing Bismah to injury, has that made it quite a difficult 24 hours for the squad?
JAVERIA KHAN: I think it was really disappointing. We all knew what this World Cup means to her, and it was disappointing to see her like this, but on the other hand, the girls were motivated that for Pakistan also and for Bismah, we need to do something special. The girls were quite different today, and unlucky we weren't able to give her the win and Pakistan the win which we wanted to give. I'm sure she'll be back soon, and we all wish her a speedy recovery.
Q. Pretty tough way for you to go out as well. Your emotions at that point must have been -- I saw your emotions at that point. You were pretty upset about the situation.
JAVERIA KHAN: I think that out should be excluded from the cricket, the way I got out. It was disappointing. I knew that we were in the game, and though the partnership, if we could have extended the partnership, we would win the game. We covered all the start, which we did because the wicket were quite slower. When I got out, I think after that, four to five overs, we took time, and that was the main reason maybe and me not going further.
Q. Have you thought that before, that should be sort of not -- should be excluded from cricket, that way of getting out? Has that happened to you before? Have you seen that happen before and just go, yeah, that shouldn't be in the rules?
JAVERIA KHAN: Yes, it has happened, but not in such crunch moments. Today was the first instance. Really disappointed in the way that I got out. It was a lesson for me that I should watch carefully where the ball is going and then run.
Q. Your batting as well, I've noticed, when you're a captain, there's a big difference between your averages when you bat. Is that something you notice? Is that something you do differently when you're batting when you're captain as well?
JAVERIA KHAN: I think captaincy gives you added responsibility, and you have to carry the team in one direction, and leader means that you have to show the direction. If I will step up, then definitely girls will get motivated. Though I am the captain or not, I just want to fulfill the role which I had. Today was slightly different as Bismah wasn't there so I had to bat a bit longer and change my mode a bit, but unfortunately, I got out.
Q. You said that stepping up. Is that with the way you play or how long you bat for? Is there an intent mentioned there? What balance do you strike in terms of stepping up?
JAVERIA KHAN: Right now I think I'm in a very good space and hitting the ball really well. My role is clear on this team that I have to use the power play, and after power play, I just have to bat as long as I can with good strike. So I'm just following that.
Today was a bit different. There was a time when it came in my mind that Bismah is not there, how should I play? How should I not play? Then suddenly it came in my mind after four overs, no, I have to play my natural game. This is how we can go closer. So then I started to play my natural game.
(Question and answer in native language.)
Q. Do you want to summarize that for us in English just very briefly.
JAVERIA KHAN: Yes. I said cricket in Pakistan will take time to grow because in different teams they're following the same structure for the past 10 to 15 years. We have just tried to change our structure, and it's been two to three years. Gradually, it will take time, and we need to be patient. We are improving as a team. We have in the past made lots of mistakes. It's a much improved performance. We have given South Africa very tough time. We made some mistakes.
And I think back home, until the time cricket is not started in schools, in truth we are not this open to play, but like in schools, club cricket, with more cricket if we get, then I think we will have a good bench strength and girls will be able to perform a bit better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT