ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 15, 2018
Javeria Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just tell us about Pakistan's performance in the match.  
JAVERIA KHAN: Yeah, it was good in pieces.  We were not this clinical with our bowling.  We were good in patches, and throughout the match we didn't feel well.  It was a good toss to win.  We should have restricted them under 110 to 115 because the pitch wasn't offering much pace.   
The kind of turn they extracted, our bowlers were not able to extract that, so these were the areas, but on the whole intent was good, but played better cricket in patches.   
 Q.  Two dropped catches in the 13th over; you guys dropped the captain and the other player that went on to make probably 37 runs.  Do you see that as the turning point of the match?  
JAVERIA KHAN: I would say that, because I mentioned that it's not only about 13th over.  We gave a few run out chances and they were just running blindly.  If you could avail those chances the game would be different.   
Throughout the 20 overs we didn't feel this well.  If the feeling was at par, the score would've been low down.   
 Q.  So what do you think was a good score to chase were?  
JAVERIA KHAN: Maybe 115-20 would've been a good score, because the kind of turn they extracted and the hit on right area, so 115 to 120 was a good score, the kind of start we got.   
 Q.  What are some of the positives you will take from the match?  
JAVERIA KHAN: A positives, of course Nashra Sandhu, the way she bowled and fielded, and our 6 overs.  These things were the positives.  We'll take them as positives.   
 Q.  How would you assess Pakistan's journey in this tournament?  Are you happy with what you've achieved?  
JAVERIA KHAN: Yeah, I'll be positive.  The kind of cricket these girls have played, they have not been given this exposure and they have played better cricket throughout the World Cup.  We made mistakes, but we'll grow as a unit with more matches we get.   
But this team was a bit different in this World Cup.  They were expressive.  If someone has less exposure -- so when we get into these kind of situations, few of us don't know what to do.  With more matches we get like this we'll get better.  I would say there were many positives, and every girl should be proud of the fact that they have played this World Cup and our group was strong and it didn't affect us and they played good cricket.   
We have made mistakes and we'll come back stronger and cut down our mistakes and just carry the positives which we have done.   
 Q.  Pakistan seemed to sort of the soak in the pressure a little bit better than some of the other teams in patches.  Have you as a team particularly worked with a psychologist or counselor to build up that mental fortitude?  
JAVERIA KHAN: We have been -- actually we played three series back to back, so with more matches you grow.  With the coaches we have, they kept us positive, and with the family, we get pep talks from our families and they keep us positive.   
Of course every girl wants to perform for the country.  As I said, we came into this World Cup by playing eight to nine matches, so it did help us.   
 Q.  What will you take back as a major highlight of your team's performance, and overall what does this tournament do for cricket in your country?  
JAVERIA KHAN: Of course I would still say we were positive.  Our issue was batting.  But in this tournament our battling regrouped; still made mistakes, but initially we were not able to score around 100 runs, but this time we scored 133, 140.  We were able to score those runs despite making a lot of mistakes.   
So there is improvement, and with more matches we play like this we will be coming stronger and we'll get improved.   
 Q.  The men team gets all the glory, all the adulation.  Do you see women looking at some stage maybe down the road having a Pakistan women's cricket league as well?  
JAVERIA KHAN: I'm not sure about this.  We'll see how it goes.  I hope if it happens it's good for the girls and with more exposure they get, because we always say that the leagues which countries have like Australia, England, and even Bangladesh, they have their league.  So if our girls get also exposure of these kind of leagues, go there and play and we have our own league, it helps us.  Because when we play against them or we play with them, supposedly if our focus go to England or Australia, when they play they'll see the level when they play with them.   
Of course improvement happens, like South African players go and play West Indies.  So this we like, and I would urge every country that if we are not having (indiscernible) kind of thing that they should consider Pakistan players also so that we grow at a better pace.   
 Q.  In your opinion, what are some the things that the Pakistan Cricket Board could do to help develop women's cricket in Pakistan?  
JAVERIA KHAN: Of course our grass root level is not this good, PCB are working on it.  They are opening academies, and with the grass root level we'll get talent, we'll get bench strength.  So if more talent comes we'll grow, and of course more matches.   
Because as I said, if we play these kind of matches we'll get to know how we have to react in those situations.  We are every time making the same mistakes.  When we get these kind of matches more, then we'll be able to cut these down.   
These things should be looked upon.   
 Q.  Pakistan are eliminated from the World T20 now.  Who in your opinion do you think is going to on to win this tournament?  
JAVERIA KHAN: It's clear-cut, Australia.  By far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT