ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 2, 2018
Javeria Khan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How happy are you to participate in the tournament, what's your take on the preparations?  
JAVERIA KHAN: Yeah, we have had some good series against Bangladesh and very good exposure against Australia. Even though we lost, we got an idea about where we are lacking, and we are planning to cut down on mistakes and take out the positives from those series.   
 Q.  How has the team settled in adjusting to the conditions?  
JAVERIA KHAN: We just came yesterday, and it was a long flight.  But here, West Indies, whenever we have come, it's beautiful.  And today we have had a session.  The weather is quite similar to our place, which in Pakistan it's the same almost, and we have enjoyed our session well, a good practise session.   
 Q.  Talk about the impact of it being the first-ever stand-alone tournament apart from the men's event, how is it different -- do you think it will be a good role?  
JAVERIA KHAN: ICC has been doing some great work regarding women's cricket.  And it had to be done, because when there are men's matches, then they kind of -- the focus is on men's matches.  But now it's a women's tournament. And they'll give full support, full priorities, full importance for like the rules, they are a system, everything, and they are doing some really good work which is kind of good to develop the men's cricket, and it's good for the rest of the girls to come forward and play cricket.  Because in the past, women's cricket was not given much importance, not much priorities, and this is why girls were not opting for cricket.  So just because of ICC instead more girls will come forward, they have something in women's cricket.   
 Q.  Also there was Bismah Maroof who was injured and now she is available, could you tell us a little bit about that, just about that right now?  
JAVERIA KHAN: Yeah, she's here, and she was with us in Asia Cup, and we couldn't give her much opportunities.  But in Australia she got the opportunities.  And it was brave on her part to be fearless.  And she played some good cricket.  And I hope she continues the same way she's been batting in order to take the pressure of what she's done in the past.   
 Q.  Today's session, what did you make of the conditions of where you'll be obviously playing in similar conditions as you said in the other two countries, and hopefully you'll be back here as well for the semis, what did you make of the conditions?  Is it hot?  Humid?  
JAVERIA KHAN: Like I said, we don't battle with heat because back home we have this kind of weather.  It's not much of any issue.  The conditions are quite similar.  And we saw the pitch, the centre pitch.  And it looks good to bat.   
So we are really prepared.  And in Malaysia it was same kind of batting track.  So we will get a good idea when we play tomorrow's match.  So hopefully it will be a good day.   
 Q.  And nowadays, in the men's game, everybody's making 200.  Last night we saw India win by three runs after they made just over 140.  And then England made 119.  What would you say is going to be a par score for this tournament, what would you think will be the target of the team batting first?  
JAVERIA KHAN: With an extra fielder coming in, so many scores will be below 140.  So we as a team have to target around 160 score because our bowling is a kind of attack.  If we keep them restricted, anything 140 to 150, we have a chance.  But mainly you'll see the scores around 170, 180, even 200 also because West Indies is a place where they're good batting tracks, and a few matches are in the nice, so ball gets good on the bat.   
 Q.  Salani recently became the number one.  Do you see them (indiscernible) by the end of this tournament?  
JAVERIA KHAN: Yeah, Anam Amin, who is ranked at third now.  And Nida Dar at eighth.  So we are hoping that they perform really best and they keep the team in a good position.  And whatever they're doing, just keep it simple, because they've been doing this way only.  And this is why they're ranked third and eighth.   
 Q.  You've just come off a tough series against Australia, one of the top-ranked teams in the world.  What is it about the Australians that makes them so good and so difficult to play?  
JAVERIA KHAN: Well, it's the discipline they have.  They're more professional, and the breadth they have. They execute their plans really well.  And they have clear plans.  Our team is a mixture of youth and inexperience.  We have more youngsters.  And we have lost key moments because of the experience.  And Australia is the kind of team, when you give them a chance, they will not leave you behind.   
So they played some good cricket.  And it was their execution because they set the conditions really well.  And we assess that, too, but we couldn't execute our plans.  We executed in the patches, if we played some good cricket in patches.  If we would have executed those plans, we would have been there as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT