NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 27, 2010
Dustin Byfuglien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Question off microphone).  
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: Yeah, that's something that I've been doing for the last couple of years is been in front of the notes and playing the forward position. And right now I'm probably as comfortable as I've been in a while.  
 And that's something that's going to be big going into the series.   
  
  Q. There's two big bodies out there colliding. Have you thought much about it and how you're going to work that?  
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: A little bit. But not too much. I'm just going to have to do what I have to do to be out there and do the simple things to get things going.  
  
  Q. You love to help yourself in the crease. You're hard to get up that big 6'6" body. It's like a big tower in there.   
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: It's not going to be easy. He's going to try to get in front and try to get in position. That's something I'm just going to have to do and make sure that I get positioned first.  
  
  Q. Is that overwhelming for you to know that it's a key matchup, the X factor in this series?  
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: I'm not really worried too much about it. The focus on me, it's a big thing. But for the most part I'm just going to go out there do what I have to do.  
  
  Q. Dustin, have you thought about what it would be like to bring the Cup back, and have you let it enter your mind?  
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: Not yet. I haven't got that thinking in my head so far. I just go day by day, and if it comes along, gets closer, I think I'll start thinking about it.   
  
  Q. I talked to your mom, she said the town is maybe 2500, but it might be 20,000.   
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: Might be more people coming into town for sure.   
  
  Q. Your mom said that she bought you a shaft when you were a kid, basically you couldn't break it because you couldn't afford another. You still have it today; is that accurate?  
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: I have a lot of shafts. I couldn't break back, big aluminum ones all they do is bend before they break.   
 I have a couple of them. And that's something that definitely that as a kid growing up trying to break a stick so you get a new one, but we couldn't.  
  
  Q. What's it like to tangle with Pronger, have you felt playing the Flyers before how much will it increase (Indiscernible).   
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: They've got a big team over there. Definitely going to be a good matchup. Not going to be an easy battle. But that's something that I think as a team, I think we're going to be ready to match up and everyone's going to be ready to go.  
  
  Q. Pronger tough to deal with one-on-one for you?  
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: I don't know. I really haven't got to deal with him too much before. And after Game 1 I'll let you know.  
  
  Q. Is there a key, you think? Clearly you've watched game film on him. Is there a key thing you can bring in that crease?  
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: You know, not offhand that I can think of. You just gotta watch and see what he does and read off of it and try to do the best you can to get position or get your stick down.  
  
  Q. (Question off Microphone).   
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: Really wasn't much. Just go out there and play your game and get going and that's something that worked at the beginning. Just kind of letting us go now.  
  
  Q. Obviously, playing with those two is completely different than playing with the other guys. Lots of top players. Can you describe what it is like to play with two guys handling the puck?  
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: Yeah, they like to dump pucks and get in on the forward track and stuff. All they've got to do is go out there and get them the puck and stand in front and just find open areas on the ice and they'll seem to find you.  
  
  Q. The Pronger question she brought up a moment ago, would you say individually, as far as the guys you've been banging against in front of the net in the Playoffs, is this your biggest personal challenge to get through him?  
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: I don't know. It's probably going to be one of the bigger ones. He's probably going to be the biggest problem out there. But for the most part, every series I've had a couple of guys that have been easy to work around.  
  
  Q. But in terms of size and strengths and experience, certainly he's got some of that, right?  
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: He's definitely got the experience and the size and stuff. And he's definitely smart and he's been around and knows how to handle situations. So the work is going to be cut out for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT