NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v SHARKS
May 21, 2010
Dustin Byfuglien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCHUYLER BAEHMAN: We'll bring Dustin in. First question, please. 

 Q. Talk about the winning goal, how you did it. 
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: It was just a good forecheck that we got on. The puck came up high, went back down. With good coverage, I was the third guy high, which I was, you know, Bolland made a good play and just laid it out in the slot. All I had to do was finish. 

 Q. What is it about you and big goals? 
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: I don't know (smiling). It's nice to have, though. 

 Q. Can you just talk about what the exhilaration, the personal feeling is of scoring a goal like that in a huge game like this, having the fans applaud you, then your teammates shower you with whatever? 
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: It's great (laughter). You know, it's something that I'll definitely remember, I'm guessing. You know, with good, hard work, it always seems to pay off in the end. 
 You know, it's something that -- it's nice. 

 Q. I think this is your 11th post-season goal in the first two years, but the first one at home. Did you feel like not only you proved that you can score at home, doesn't have to be on the road, that you guys got back on track at home collectively as a group?
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: We got away from the game plan a little bit in the games during the game. We got back on track. We stuck with our game plan. It's a big thing in playoffs here. With big goals, you know, it goes with the team's hard work. 

 Q. Have you ever felt as confident in your NHL career as you feel right now? 
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: Uhm, I'm going to have to say no. I am really confident right now. You know, playing with Kane and Toews, they make it a little easier, too. 

 Q. You're up 3-0. Great position to be in. Nonetheless, it's already happened once in the playoffs, somebody came back from that. Will that help keep you focused as you hope to close this out Sunday? 
 DUSTIN BYFUGLIEN: I definitely think so. I think for the most part our team's staying focused, not letting games with the wins getting in their head, it's going to be easy. With San Jose, they're such a good team, we definitely can't, you know, let off at all. We got to keep going right to the final buzzer. 
 SCHUYLER BAEHMAN: Thank you very much, Dustin. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT