BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2019
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So, pretty solid round today.  I can't remember, did you have to finish this morning?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, I was on 18 green.   
 Q.  And what did you do, make birdie or par?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Made par.   
 Q.  And reset and went out --  
BEAU HOSSLER: I probably had 30, 40 minutes.  I played well.  There's plenty of birdies to be had out there.  The greens are a little bit tricky, but they're sectioned off where if you get in the appropriate section you usually have a pretty good look.   
My driver's been pretty squirrelly, but I actually felt like I found something the last four or five holes, which is hopefully big for me on the weekend.   
 Q.  Yeah, you had a strong finish, a couple of birdies on the last three holes.  Did you find there was an difference playing this morning than playing late yesterday?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, the greens were way smoother.  They were pretty rough in the afternoon-ish.  They're just soft poa annua and obviously they had a rough winter as well.   
It's tough to keep it on track, but if you hit good putts, and everybody is putting on the same thing, and hopefully a few of them drop but fortunately thus far they have, but I've certainly had a few spin out as well.   
 Q.  You were outside the FedExCup 125 coming in here.  Two tournaments left, pretty important week for you.  Was that on your mind coming in here?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Funny, I was talking to some people, when my team kind of -- you would think being in a position like this, I would be stressed out about it.  But it's been more a very frustrating year as far as I know what I'm capable of doing, how I'm capable of hitting the golf ball and I've just not done that this year.   
It's one of those things where I know, no matter where I'm playing, if I get my game back to where I know it can be, I'll be doing what I know I can do.  So whether that's this week or in three months, the sooner the better, but certainly been trying my hardest this year and hopefully I can get it turned around and get my career back on the track that I think I should be on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT