CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 18, 2018
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This is a course that certainly produced a lot of birdies today, but how were you able to put together an opening round the way you did?
BEAU HOSSLER: I just tried to stick to a game plan.  You get a lot of wedges in your hand and I think if you get the ball in the fairway you can get relatively aggressive into the greens.  So certainly I would say the first 13 holes are really gettable and then from there it's trying to hold on the last few holes can get tricky.  Had a little bit of wind pick up and fortunately I was able to finish relatively strong to close with a 64.
Q. What's the mindset going to a different course, knowing that all the birdies seem to be out here at La Quinta?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, the other two courses are tough.  I haven't seen the scores, but this is certainly the course that you want to go and get a really low round.  So I'm happy with an 8-under par, certainly could have been better but it could have been worse as well, so I'm looking forward to the next couple of days, hopefully I can have a couple low rounds.
Q. You said you were sticking to your game plan today, so what is your game plan for the next two days before the cut on Saturday?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, there's just holes that you can be really aggressive on and there's a lots of holes that you got to try and make pars on.  Like I said, with the golf course here you got to be pretty aggressive the first 13 holes and then you got to get a little conservative and try to make some pars on the course coming in.  So I gave myself some good opportunities, took advantage of some good opportunities, holed a bunker shot, which was fun.  And then just tried to make sure I got the ball in the fairway, that's definitely tough do out here sometimes.
Q. Take us through the shot of the day, the hole out.
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, that was nice.  I think I was 3-under through four and then had a little bunker shot there on No. 6 and hit great shot and it went in.  So that was certainly a nice start, got some momentum going for the rest of the round.
Q. Was this Oregon versus Texas today?  Did you talk about that?
BEAU HOSSLER: No.  Just came out and played golf.  It's fun.  I never really played -- actually I have -- but I haven't played this tournament before, it's pretty laid back and so nice to play a golf course that's in such nice condition.  So it was a fun day.  Fun pairing.
Q. Last year when you were playing the, was it 10 WEB.COM events to get your card to play, how did that series of events go for you mentally?  Did you go into that figuring, I'm going to do well enough, I'm going to get my card here or what was your goal?
BEAU HOSSLER: Well, after I played with Aaron and he won that tournament in Wichita, I finished second, I was just happy to have my WEB.COM card, because I had no status.  But at that point I think I moved myself up to like 35th or something in the Money List, so I knew if I could close the season well that I could get my card.  But that being said it's not like I could coast in with 50th place finish, especially on the WEB.COM, you don't really make any money if you don't finish in the top-10.  So, I had another good finish in New York that really helped me out, but so I was kind of sweating in out until the last tournament.
Q. How big of a grind was it playing 10 weeks in a row?
BEAU HOSSLER: Well I played a lot more than that.  I played about 16 in a row last year.  But it was a big-time grind.  That's what's nice about being out here is I want to play a lot, but I don't want to be playing that many in a row.  I want to try and cap it at four or five maybe.  But certainly it's nice to be fresh again, I hadn't felt fresh really in my last 15 tournaments, just because we had been playing so much.  So it feels great to be back out here and have a little energy and nice to be playing in California again.
Q. Are you working with a physical trainer now regularly?  Is he or she, I don't know what it is, with you?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, I have a guy out here that I do physio with and then I have a physical therapy and chiropractor back home.  So I'm very fortunate I have a really good team around me and they certainly take good care of me and put me first, which is a huge advantage.
Q. Physically you feel good?
BEAU HOSSLER: Feel great.  Yeah, I feel really good.  I was battling some stuff there at the end of the year, just from fatigue and wear and tear, but nothing serious.  But nice to be able to rest the body for about six weeks here before we got going again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT