SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 4, 2017
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Moving day.  Some tough conditions, but what a round on the golf course?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, I played really well.  Like you said, tough conditions.  It was one of those days you couldn't get ahead of yourself at all.  As soon as you do that, you get yourself in trouble.  So I just tried to keep the ball on the fairway and keep it below the hole as much as possible and manage my game.  To get out of there bogey-free is kind of a miracle, to be honest.  I hit some nice saves with my short hand and my putter.  Like I said, if I can go tomorrow and keep the putter rolling, I feel good.   
 Q.  What is the experience, playing golf in Texas, it can get windy, but surely this is different?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Absolutely.  That was part of the reason why I went to Texas.  Coming from Southern California you're kind of in a bubble with perfect weather and no wind.  So I was really struggling with that.  When I go to school, playing in this kind of wind fairly regularly, not all the time.  Certainly there were some windy days in Texas.  So that experience has really helped me.  I feel like I can control my ball in the wind a little bit better.  Also, underrated.  It's sneaky hard to putt when it's windy.   
 Q.  Coming here with good form, you made the cut at Safeway and had the Top 10 in Mississippi.  The train's going in the right direction?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Not particularly.  It was really nice to have a couple weeks off before Mississippi (indiscernible).  This year on the Web.com, you kind of play week in and week out, and haven't had much time to practice and get my mechanics back in check.  So I've been playing so much that I got into some bad habits that I had to rectify.  Fortunately, I think it's working for me.   
 Q.  Bogey-free round (indiscernible).  
BEAU HOSSLER: Very fortunate to have no bogies, and five birdies.  Kept the ball on the fairway (indiscernible).  I'm rolling the putter well.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask you, you talk about the grind.  How much, because (indiscernible) that really did get you pretty prepared for this Fall Series?  
BEAU HOSSLER: I think the players come out of the Web.com year in and year out and they're able to be competitive.  You see a lot of people qualify and there is a lot of talent in golf, not only Web.com, but there are other levels of golf that people don't really know about.  (Indiscernible) there is great competition out there.  And I think it totally prepares you, as far as the competition goes.  I'm very grateful that I had that opportunity out there.   
 Q.  It has you ready, I guess, to win this early in this top-level career?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, it's going to be tough.  Anytime you're playing on the PGA TOUR or even the Web.com tour, it's so tough to win.  These guys are so good, and the golf course, particularly on the PGA TOUR, are very difficult.  There is trouble all over.  I think it's so important to have a good game plan and stick it out.  You hear people say that, but it's really the key, especially on days like today.  So to make a couple bogies early, you've got to keep your head about you.   
 Q.  Where does your confidence come from?  Where do you get that inner drive?  
BEAU HOSSLER: I don't know.  Just a lot of people play the game or maybe they're out here trying to make a good check, support for this manically and stuff.  But I really enjoy the competition and the challenge of winning at any level.   
Winning in college is really tough, and it's tough to break through.  No matter what level you're at, it's kind of a new challenge every time you get into that position.  I enjoy that challenge.  I enjoy putting myself in positions where I'll be nervous and testing myself there.  If you're not successful that first time, that experience is always going to help you moving forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT