U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2015
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You showed a little bit of grit coming home.
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah.
Q. Are you happy with that?
BEAU HOSSLER: Oh, yeah.  I fought as hard as I could, that's for sure.  I'm glad to -- I think I was 3-under on that last nine holes, which was really good.  Both golf courses are really challenging, so any time you can get eight birdies on the scorecard, that's good, but obviously I need to work on limiting the bogeys.
Q. What was happening with the amount of bogeys and the one double bogey you had?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, when I go back and think about it, it's really just driving.  The holes I hit it in the fairway, I think I played like 7-under.  The holes I was in the trees, it's just a testament to USGA golf, U.S. Opens, U.S. Amateurs, if you miss the fairways, you're going to be in trouble.  A few bad breaks obviously in the trees, but that's what you get when you hit it there.  If you hit it in the fairway, you don't have to worry about that.
Q. Is there anything you have to work on between now and next month?
BEAU HOSSLER: And next month for the Walker Cup?
Q. Yeah.
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, of course.  I think everything needs to get tighter.  Obviously I can't be shooting the numbers I'm shooting right now, but at this stage I'm worried about hopefully getting into a playoff or maybe making it or obviously hopefully not missing it.  If that's the case, this is the tournament that means the most to every person in the field.  I'm going to take care of that, and once that's over with, whether it's today or next Sunday, then I'll worry about the Walker Cup.
Q. When somebody has to wait around all day to find out whether they're in a playoff or they make it, what kind of things do you do?
BEAU HOSSLER: You pray for bad weather, and then obviously there's nothing I can do right now.  I played my heart out, played as hard as I could, fought as hard as I could today, so obviously I'm proud of that.  I just really dug myself in a deep hole yesterday with a real average round, and even though I didn't feel like I played that poorly, I got penalized severely for missing fairways again.  If anything as far as moving forward, I just need to drive it better, and I think everything else in my game feels pretty solid.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT