U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Happy you made it to where you need to go?BEAU HOSSLER: Absolutely.  That's the goal is just to get in the match play.  Seeding, obviously you want to be the medalist but other than that, it really doesn't matter.  Any of into these guys can beat anybody else.  Just got to go out there and play good golf tomorrow. I really like the Highlands Course.  I think it sets up well for me.  I hit it relatively long off the tee.  I just have to hit more fairways than I did yesterday.Q. The format is a little different than the Western, which is much more condensed.  What can you take from that experience?BEAU HOSSLER: I guess the summer, just both in the California Amateur and the Western, I've learned that I'm a good match-play player.  Before that, I had not had much success, but I think I'm like 9-1 or something this year in match play, so that's pretty good. But as far as this week, it's just going to be a matter of staying hydrated out here.  I feel a little dehydrated right now.  I didn't drink as much as I should have.  But just taking it one step at a time and really be committed to your shots.  Obviously that's my goal but it should be everybody's goal to do that because it's tough to do for that long, and especially when you're playing that much golf in a short period of time in the heat and everything, you've just got to really bear down and get mentally ready.Q. What did you do after the Western?BEAU HOSSLER: What did I do?  I took five days off.Q. Did you not touch a club?BEAU HOSSLER: I chipped for an hour two days and then took the day off the rest of the three days.  It was nice.  Kind of got dialed in there again with my swing the last couple days and it's just right where it needs to be.Q. What have you learned about yourself through match play, as opposed to playing the stroke play?BEAU HOSSLER: Like I said, I just have gotten more confident as a player, match-play player.  It's a different game but at the same time, it's the same game.  You have to go out there and if you make good scores on holes, you're going to win holes.  If you make bad scores, you're going to lose. I'm really impressed with the way that I've handled myself down the stretch.  I've played some really good golf when I needed to at crucial moments, which has been great for my confidence, really big birdie putts, and up-and-down, my short game this summer has been really good.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT