AT&T NATIONAL
June 28, 2012
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Another well‑played round of golf for you.   
BEAU HOSSLER:   Thanks, yeah.   I had a pretty good day.   Unfortunately I had some three‑putts.   I had four birdies, which is pretty good, so just got to work on the putting a little bit.  
   
 Q.   The greens are really fast and getting firm, too, aren't they?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   These have got to be the fastest greens I've ever putted on.   I don't know, maybe the same speed as Olympic a couple weeks ago, but these have a lot more pitch to them, so if you get on the wrong side of the hole, you've got no chance.  
   
 Q.   And they're firm.   I saw a couple wedges take big hops as you were hitting them in.   
BEAU HOSSLER:   Yeah, they're firm, too.   From what I can tell it's set up harder than last year.   The scores seems like they're lower because maybe the pins aren't quite as hard, but the greens are faster and firmer than last year, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   I was impressed with the way you hit your driver.   You're not scared to pull it out of the bag and you're able to shape it.   
BEAU HOSSLER:   Yeah, I feel pretty comfortable with the driver.   Unfortunately I missed a few left on that back nine, which was my first nine, but I feel like I made a little adjustment and hit it well on the back nine.   
   
 Q.   Just give us some general comments on your round today.   
BEAU HOSSLER:   It was a good day out there, played well, hit it pretty well.   I hit a lot of good shots that I just felt like‑‑ the ball seemed to be going a little bit longer than normal, so I was airmailing some pins.   Unfortunately that's never a good thing when a lot of the greens are sloped back to front.   I had some great up‑and‑downs, but you've got to go out there and keep it below the hole, especially on this golf course when the greens are this fast and firm.   
   
 Q.   Any difference between this experience on the TOUR and last week?   Is it a little more low‑key?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   I guess it's a little more low‑key obviously because there's less people, not people flying from around the country and world to see the tournament, less grandstands.   But the course is set up just‑‑ I mean, equally difficult, I think, or pretty close.   
   
 Q.   We talked to your mom out on the course.   She said you're 17 going on 37.   Where do you get that from?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   I don't know.   I'm starting to feel pretty comfortable out here, so I feel like I belong.   Obviously my game needs to get better before I'm out here all the time, but I feel pretty comfortable out here, feels like I can make the adjustment from junior to amateur to professional golf.   Obviously I need to get more comfortable just as the tournaments go on, but I feel like I've made some progress.  
   
 Q.   Is it more fun as you get more comfortable?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Oh, yeah, well, I always have fun out on the golf course.   Me and my caddie joke around a lot.   Obviously it's more fun when you're playing good, that's for sure.   I feel like I'm getting around pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Are you getting used to all the extra attention that you've been getting the last couple weeks?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Yeah, a little bit.   It's kind of different, obviously not having any before and then stepping into a huge media center at the U.S. Open, but I'm starting to feel pretty comfortable, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Was there a phone call from the Tiger Woods Foundation or from Tiger or what was that process like?   
BEAU HOSSLER:   Yeah, my caddie, actually my godfather, he got an email from Greg, who's the CEO of the Tiger Woods Foundation, that there was an extra spot and I was able to play.   I was pretty excited.   It was pretty late notice, but I'll take whatever I can get.   I'm glad to do that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT