U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2012
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What did you think of today's round?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   I had a great day.   I went out there and didn't really have any expectations except for to make sure that I'm getting the most out of my round like I've been saying.   I got off to a pretty good start.   
Fortunately I heard from somebody that I had four bogeys but packed all of them up with a birdie and that really helped me to keep my round going.   
   
 Q.   One step closer to the goal of low amateur?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Right.   I'm going out there.   It's still my goal, but I feel like I'm in contention to win the tournament; and I'm going to try and take advantage of it tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Can you win the U.S. Open?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Absolutely.   There's not a doubt in my mind.   Got to go out there and do everything right mentally and physically, but it's definitely out there for me.   
   
 Q.   You were saying quite here Lee the other day that are goal is to be low amateur.   Is it fair to say that maybe you reassessed those goals and maybe raised it a notch a little bit?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   I still have the goal to be low amateur, but my goal now is to win the tournament.  
   
 Q.   Is it something you pride yourself on making up bogeys with birdie?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   That's something I try to do.   Not always successful with it, but the key out there is definitely staying away from the bogey train, because that can kill you.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like the crowd is yours almost, that they're rooting for you?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Yeah, it's amazing.   I can't tell you how much I appreciate the support from everybody out there.   Not only my family and friends from home, but all the people in the Bay Area.   It's really special.  
   
 Q.   At what point in the round did that goal change from low amateur to, hey, I can win this tournament?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Going out there‑‑ I couldn't put a specific point on it, but I know that I can go out there and I feel comfortable and confident in my abilities to go out there and make some birdies even and hopefully take advantage of those tomorrow.   But I couldn't put a specific point on it.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BEAU HOSSLER:   I feel pretty good.   I'm always a little bit nervous starting out the round, but feel like I kind of backed into the comfort level.   
   
 Q.   The save on 9 and also the 2‑putt on 8 after the long delay, could you kind of describe given those two I know is he dents and how that boosted you a little bit?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Those are key.   Any time you can save a par on a difficult putt, that's huge.   It keeps your momentum going.   I can't really talk about the save on 13th par‑3?   
   
 Q.   You hooked it in the trees on 9 or at least in the rough and kind of got out in the fairway and then didn't you save par there?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Right.   That was huge.   Yeah, that was definitely huge.   But I think the biggest one was on 13 for me where I got up‑and‑down for bogey from down in the swale.   Double bogey's really kill you, and fortunately I was able to salvage a bogey, but it actually felt like a birdie there.  
   
 Q.   Did you check yourself out on Twitter and see all the warm wishes that you had not from the thousands here but from the whole world?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   I did.   That was pretty sweet.   I saw there's so much support out there for me and I'm really appreciative of that.  
   
 Q.   How many followers did you pick up yesterday?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   I really, I don't use Twitter that much.   Don't really know how it works.   I just kind of followed the funny ones like the Will Ferrell and everything, so I go in there for some humor but more than that I don't really pay much attention, but I think quite a few.   
   
 Q.   When people get old they say that age is just a number.   Are you looking at 17 is just a number and that you're just a golfer out here?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Sure I'm hut here competing and I'm competing to win.  
   
 Q.   There's a special theater to a final round of a Major Championship, it's a very special atmosphere and you will be right in the midst of that tomorrow.   Talk about your thoughts about being in that position.   
BEAU HOSSLER:   Obviously I'm not experienced in there, so I can't really talk about what it's going to be like, but I know from other tournaments that I feel pretty comfortable coming down the back nine when I'm in contention.   So obviously it's a little bit different being the U.S. Open, but I put myself in contention many a tournaments and have come through successfully.  
   
 Q.   Does that change Texas plans?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Not at all.   I'm going to Texas and going to be a Longhorn.  
   
 Q.   What's are plan for tomorrow?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Stripe my drive on one.   
   
 Q.   That's it?   Did Bill keep you loose?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   That's always helped me.   Yeah, we have some fun out there.   It's a lot of fun.   We joke around and everything.   We had some good laughs that kind of keeps the nerves down a little bit and I feel really comfortable with him on the bag.  
   
 Q.   How do you keep your nerves down?   Do you do anything to relax yourself, especially in a high pressure situation like this?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Like I just said, I try to joke with my caddie and have a good time.  
   
 Q.   Any jokes you can share with us?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Nope, they're between us.   
   
 Q.   14, you made the birdie and the fist pump the crowd was going wild.   Tell us about that one?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   That was pretty sweet.   We had a good read on that, didn't quite think I gave it quite enough speed on it but it happened to catch the left edge and I got a huge roar there.   That was really cool.  
   
 Q.   What was the first U.S. Open you remember seeing.   
BEAU HOSSLER:   2004 or 2005 at Winged Foot.   2006?   2006?   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Ogilvy and Mickelson?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   The future of Texas golf with you and obviously Jordan, soon to be teammate, how exciting is it to share this experience with the soon to be teammate like Jordan?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   It's awesome.   I've been texting him at night pretty much every night we have a really good friendship so it's, I think he played pretty well today.   Didn't he shoot 1‑under, 1‑over?   
Yeah.   Great to see that.   He's an incredible player.   The rankings show that.   I want to say he's within the top three for sure.   I feel like we could definitely feed off each other as teammates for sure.   
   
 Q.   At some point you probably expected to have your name among the leaders the bigger names in golf, did you expect it this soon?  
BEAU HOSSLER:   No, not a the all.   I expect myself to be out here.   Didn't quite expect myself, or really even think about, being in contention.   But I feel like I'm in a good spot for tomorrow and I feel pretty comfortable and confident for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT