U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2012
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was it like going out the first group on No. 1 in a U.S. Open?
BEAU HOSSLER:   It was great.   Got to play on pure greens for the first nine holes and these greens are really good even on the back nine with people trampling them.   I'm sure they will be good tomorrow even but they were perfect the first nine.   So it was great to go out with no wind as well. 

Q.   How would you describe your emotions today versus last year?
BEAU HOSSLER:   I was a lot less nervous, not saying I wasn't nervous at all because I was very nervous, but last year was pretty ridiculous.   It was good.   I felt comfortable though, I felt like I prepared myself well for the tournament.   So I was glad to get off to a good start.

Q.   What are your expectations this week?
BEAU HOSSLER:   I just expect to get the most out of my rounds.   I can't really put a number on it because the course is changing.   The rough and everything, firm and soft.   I just want to make sure I'm not making any mental mistakes going out there and getting the most out of my rounds.

Q.   Did you have a lot of par putts today?
BEAU HOSSLER:   Outside 10 feet I don't think I had maybe until the last hole I didn't really miss anything significantly short.

Q.   Was there something from the experience last year that you think helped you today keep your wits about you obviously and keep the momentum going?
BEAU HOSSLER:   Sure, I mean just having the experience, knowing what to expect when I go out on the course, it's a lot.   As hectic as it is I feel a lot more comfortable with the situation now than I did last year because it was something so new to me. 
But I feel comfortable out there.   So I think that's something to draw off for sure.

Q.   Talk about your playing for bogey on 16 and getting it.   Pretty big putt for you there?
BEAU HOSSLER:   Yeah, I would say that's the only real mental mistake I made was trying to go for that green on my third shot because I hit it in the rough.   Unfortunately I hit right and decided there's a huge swale down there on the left and then there's a little with one behind the green so I tried just to keep it to back of the green and unfortunately it went over.   But I was able to get up‑and‑down for bogey, which is I think that's going to play one of the tougher holes out here this week because it's long, but the rough is so long around there and it's really tight dogleging.   So even though a par‑5 you think normally it's an easy hole but I think it's one of the hardest holes for sure.

Q.   What did you have in?
BEAU HOSSLER:   275. 

Q.   How would you compare the setup this year versus what you faced last year.   Did does this setup suit your game?
BEAU HOSSLER:   I like it better.   Last year it got some rain so it wasn't playing as firm and fast even though it was obviously still firm for a normal tournament, but I think just having the firmer fairways definitely helps me get some length off the tees on the longer holes as well as I feel like I know how to shape it off the tee a lot better than just bomb and gouge from last year.

Q.   Were you is surprised to be able to turn in a 70 today?
BEAU HOSSLER:   Not at all.   I've been playing really well lately.   I expected myself to go out there and get a lot out of my round.   I still left a few out there but you have to accept that, it's the U.S. Open it's going to happen.

Q.   Was there something again from last year when you went away that you said I need to work on this, I got to watch the pros play under a Major Championship conditions, I need to do this in order to be able to improve myself?
BEAU HOSSLER:   Definitely.   The managing my misses from the fairways is huge.   Unfortunately, today on hole 4 I missed it on the high side.   You can't do that.   Hit a great chip to 25 or 30 feet, but you get on sides of the greens where you cannot hit it and you're going to be making bogey at best.   So being able to control where my ball's missing and being a little bit more conservative with my lines and still making aggressive swings is huge.

Q.   What was it like playing a practice round with Phil?
BEAU HOSSLER:   It was great.   I always looked up to him, not only his game but his character, everything.   It was an incredible experience.   We had a little partner game going.   It was great.   It was great to see how he prepared.   Because obviously he's been so successful, even though he hasn't won in this tournament he's had four or five second place finishes, yeah, five second place finishes and obviously he's consistently in the contention coming into this tournament so I thought it would be great for me to learn from that. 

Q.   Did he give you any advice?
BEAU HOSSLER:   Conservative lines and aggressive swings, like I was saying.   Also with putts and lag putts and everything.   So sometimes you're going to have a 40‑footer but you want to have a speed that leaves you maybe one or two feet short of the hole as opposed to two or three feet by giving you a chance to go in.   So taking your pars and taking your medicine is huge.

Q.   You said you've been playing well before this, is that junior tournaments, amateur tournaments?
BEAU HOSSLER:   Yeah I haven't, I got second at the state championship for high school, shot 3‑under 68 there.   Came in fourth at the Thunderbird.   Before that I had really been playing well.   I won a couple high school events as well as the Heather Farr out in Arizona.   So I feel like I'm able to cash in on my opportunities a little bit better now than I was say last year. 

Q.   Is school over now?
BEAU HOSSLER:   Yeah.   I finished last Friday. 

Q.   From the Tiger/Phil group when they passed you, I think twice, you saw them, did you see the big crowds following those guys or did you not?
BEAU HOSSLER:   I wasn't really paying attention.   There were big crowds following a lot of groups throughout.   But I'm sure it was a lot bigger there.   But I was kind of focused on my game and what was going on in my group. 

Q.   What was your feeling about the first six holes?   It's a lot has been made about how difficult the first six holes are you went through them in 2‑over and I'm sure you were a little frustrated on a couple holes that you didn't have a real good recovery for par option.   But how do you maintain your patience through that stretch?
BEAU HOSSLER:   Those are probably the six hardest holes I've ever played.   You don't really have any let up in the first six.   The shortest hole being No. 4 is still I think the toughest driving hole I've ever seen in that you can't hold the fairway unless you hit a draw into that hill and it lands really soft.   Unfortunately, I tugged my second shot there and that really cost me a bogey where I should have made par at worst.   But other than that I played those holes great.   I parred No. 1, got away with a par on No. 3 as well as a tough back right pin there, and I was able to ‑‑ any time you can go through those first six holes in less than 2‑over par you're doing a great job.   Because you can ‑‑ there's really some scoring opportunities on the back nine, but the first six are brutal. 

Q.   How big was the par putt on No. 1?
BEAU HOSSLER:   It was good.   I wanted to make sure I ‑‑ more than anything if even if I missed that putt the fact that I hit my line, that was huge because it gives me a little bit of confidence that even though I'm reading the greens pretty good and I'm able to stroke it on my line and get the right speed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT