U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2011
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What's going to be your fondest memory of this U.S. Open?  
 BEAU HOSSLER: Probably the first tee shot on hole 10 the first day. Pretty difficult hole to start with, and when you're nervous it's even tougher, but I hit a good shot in there, so it was pretty neat.  
  
  Q. How did you get over nerves, or did you really ever get over your nerves?  
 BEAU HOSSLER: No, absolutely. To be honest with you, I was on the nervous on the 10 tee shot and a little bit on that green, and from there it was free sailing from there. But I'm sure someone would be lying to you if they said they weren't nervous on the first tee of the U.S. Open.   
 But I feel like the nerves, I controlled them very well. I didn't play my best. I felt like my game wasn't really there this week. But I felt like I controlled my emotions very well and had a good attitude out there, which helped me make some nice shots over the week.  
  
  Q. What do you carry out of this for your own game and your future in golf?  
 BEAU HOSSLER: Just getting to see a major championship venue, to see if I reach my goal of playing on the PGA Tour what I'm going to be doing in a few years, and kind of a precursor of what the Tour life is like to be out here for a week. I can't imagine these guys going out there five straight weeks doing this. It's tiring. It's good to see all the great players and learn from them and how they prepare for the tournament especially is very cool.  
  
  Q. Any one lesson that you learned from any of these guys? Did you see someone who may have given you a pointer or something you saw in them that gave you a pointer?  
 BEAU HOSSLER: Anthony Kim actually gave me a good pointer on how to play a golf course with very firm greens. A lot of the time, he said, he measures the pin yardage, but a lot of the time he's just measuring the yardage to the front of the green, and he's figuring to play to the front yardage instead of pin yardage, that'll help him to keep the ball under the hole or to keep him from going over the green, which is usually death out here. That's about it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT