DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2018
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another Thursday, another good round, good start?  
BEAU HOSSLER: I got off to a pretty shaky start, but from there on in, I got lucky to make the long putts.   
 Q.  What is it about it, from off the green, there, on 14?  
BEAU HOSSLER: I thought it was short. I thought I hit a pretty good putt. But I was trying to get it up there cozy so I could tap in for par. To make birdie there, and birdie on the next one and a long one on 16, and obviously to get up and down on 18 to close the round out.   
 Q.  How have you managed to avoid the proverbial wall so many young players hit at this point in the season when you're just playing so much golf?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Truthfully I haven't played that much the last two months. Played a lot at the beginning part of the year, coming out of the Web.com category, you don't know how many starts you'll get. Played as much as I could. Only took a couple of weeks off, and just played the PGA, Open Championship, and last week in the last basically month and a half. It's been a nice break. I feel really fresh, where a lot of players probably don't right now. But I would say my game isn't exactly where I want it to be. But as far as mentally I feel totally rested and prepared to compete.   
 Q.  What kicked in over the last five holes?  
BEAU HOSSLER: I don't know, I got some momentum obviously making some long putts. I felt like I played pretty well the remainder of the day. Might not have looked that good, but the misses were in the right spots, and my short game held me together. Made some really, really nice up-and-downs from tough spots, as well. To keep the bogeys off the card with the exception of the par-5, No. 2, is strong.   
 Q.  Do you feel there's a difference in your energy level now versus a month ago or two months ago?  
BEAU HOSSLER: No doubt about it, yeah. I played five in a row and six in a row twice this year. I was exhausted at the last event, probably the last two, both of those stretches. Like I said, truthfully didn't really have a choice, particularly at the beginning of the year. You have to play as much as you can to make enough points where you can qualify yourself for all the tournaments. Once I had a few good results and was able to move my way up FedExCup and World Rankings, getting me into the bigger events I was able to cool the jets and prepare for each tournament rather than just playing every week.   
 Q.  How did you find the greens, scorable?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Today? It was tough. It was windy and the wind was switching direction. Truthfully anything under par is good today. Happy to get in 4-under par.   
 Q.  Where would the trip to East Lake be on your accomplishments?  
BEAU HOSSLER: I don't think about that much. If I play well I'll be there, if I don't, I won't. That's a culmination of a whole year. Your rookie year to get there obviously is pretty good. But truthfully I kind of expect myself to be one of the best players out here.   
 Q.  The advantage to be there you set your own schedule next season, that would seem to be, for you, a huge advantage, you won't have to play six events in a row?  
BEAU HOSSLER: Like I said, I'm not worried about that stuff, I just want to go play good golf. Get ready to play this week, and be as mentally prepared to go out and score well tomorrow and Sunday and Monday, I guess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT