TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2018
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, Beau, let's talk about the golf course.  Perfect conditions, you went out and took advantage?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, absolutely.  This golf course is one of my favorites of the year.  It's just a really fun golf course really.  There are a lot of cool holes, lot of wedges, but you've got to get your ball in play off the tee.  Did that well today, and I think we were fortunate to be out there with pure greens and no winds.  I did pretty well and happy at 5-under.
Q. Good start.  It's been a productive year for you up to this point.  You continue to play well.  You've got to be happy the way you've kept together most of the season?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, I've had a lot of really good rounds.  I've just got to get a little more consistent.  I think I played a little bit too much kind of early in the year and was running on fumes a little bit, particularly the last couple weeks that I played.  So it's nice to have a couple weeks off.
Even though I would have loved to be at Shinnecock last week, but I'm feeling really good, feeling really refreshed and hopefully I can be more patient on the golf course.
Q. Quick comments about your round today?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, strong start today.  Getting in the house 5-under par was nice.  Playing in the morning with perfect conditions was obviously ideal, and I was glad to take advantage.
Q. I gather getting out right off the bat being in the first cup groups was a good thing today?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, definitely.  Generally the only tough part about playing early in the morning is kind of early in the year when you're fighting darkness early, you don't get a good warm-up because it's dark or if it's really cold.  And we didn't have either of those today.  So you're playing on perfect greens with hardly any wind, so it was ideal conditions for scoring.
Q. You're ranked third in first-round scoring average this year.  How confident are you to get off to a good start and then going through the rest of the week with your scoring average?
BEAU HOSSLER: I'm aware of it.  Good news is I'm getting off to great starts, so that's certainly helping me to get in position to do well, and hopefully I can continue that through the rest of the week.  But as you've said, I've had some struggles.  But looking back on it, I didn't really realize, but there were some rounds where I was pretty exhausted.  I played 5 in a row and Memorial was my fifth.  I was in a good position at Colonial and Memorial off the first rounds, but I think I just kind of ran out of gas.
Fortunately, I had two weeks off coming into this tournament.  Didn't play golf for eight days, and I'm feeling really refreshed.  Looking forward to the next few days.
Q. Is that just kind of a learning experience getting out here?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, I've heard from lots of guys out here, scheduling your first year is tough.  It's tempting to play every week because all these tournaments are so good, but at the same time, I want to be fresh.  I think I've had some tournaments where I've been run down, and that's cost me.
Q. What was your overall impression of this place?
BEAU HOSSLER: This is one of my favorite courses on TOUR.  I played here last year on a sponsor exemption.  They were gracious enough to give me a chance to play, and I just fell in love with it.  It's such a fun course.  That's what's cool about it.
You're hitting a lot of wedges and some sort holes, but it's not easy.  You have to golf your ball really well around here, and even though you're hitting wedges, it's tough to get the ball on the fairway, particularly if the wind picks up, which it does out here, it can get really dicey.
Q. Is it tough to keep the scoring trends from creeping into the mental side of things as weeks progress?
BEAU HOSSLER: Well, I get reminded of it every week from you guys, so it's on me to play better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT