THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 31, 2018
Beau Hossler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Some thoughts on your 66 today?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, strong round.  Made a lot of pars.  Greens were phenomenal, as I hear they're good every year here.  If you get your ball below the hole you can definitely make some putts and fortunately today I did.  Really strong all around.  I drove it pretty good, got my ball in position and then was able to be pretty aggressive into these soft greens after the rain.
Q. What's been the key to your Thursday success this year?
BEAU HOSSLER: My Thursday success?  Shooting low scores has helped.  I don't know.  You start fresh every week.  It's nice to get off to a good start and I have done that a fair amount of times this year.  Hopefully we can continue it on the weekend.
Q. Are you aware of your round by round scoring averages?  And how do you improve on that sort of moving forward?
BEAU HOSSLER: Yeah, but I think I've played a number of really quality rounds on the weekend as well.  So I feel like this year has been a lot of up-and-down.  I've had some really low scores, I've had some really high scores, and that's kind of uncharacteristic for me.  But in fairness I think the PGA TOUR golf courses won't allow to you play poor and score well.  That's why we're out here.  The reality is I just need to be more consistent round 1 through 4.  Whatever days I'm struggling on I need to do better on those days.  But at the same time any time you're struggling it's going to show out here.  I think you'll see that from guys that missing cuts on Thursday, Fridays.  Guys that are struggling on the weekend, obviously the setup on the weekend generally is a little bit more difficult and it just exposes bad play even more.  So I feel really comfortable with where I'm at.  I played great on the weekend in Houston, pretty much flawless, really.  I have tons of confidence from closing out tournaments from junior and Amateur golf and college golf.  It's not a concern of mine.  Obviously I noticed a trend, but at the same time I think I'm on the right track and I've just got to stick with what I'm doing.
Q. Is that just part of the learning curve of being out here?
BEAU HOSSLER: I don't know.  I will say I certainly feel a lot more comfortable on the courses that I've played for a second time this year.  I played on some sponsor exemptions last year.  And playing the golf course more and knowing the pins and knowing the conditions and the wind has certainly helped in those events.  With that said, I can't blame that entirely on that.  But I think there's something to be said for guys that come back 10 years in a row to a golf course and know pretty much what they're getting into.  I felt like that on the tournaments that I played as a repeat this year.  This one obviously is brand new.  Most of them are brand new, but I feel pretty comfortable out here.
Q. There's a lot of talk earlier this week about guys needing to learn how to win out here.  What are some experiences this year that have really stuck out and helped you learn how to hopefully win some day?
BEAU HOSSLER: I think that you just have to know how to win period.  It might take some time to do it at each level and I've had that struggle a little bit in my career, transitioning from junior golf into college golf.  It took me a little while to win amateur golf and then big time Amateur tournaments, it took me a little while to win.  To be honest, in Houston this year I felt like I played as well as I possibly could have, given the circumstances.  I had a lead on the 18th hole, made par on one of the hardest holes on TOUR and ended up losing the tournament.  So as far as like learning how to win, I know how to win.  It's just a matter of doing it.  Just because you know how to win doesn't mean you're going to win every time or close out every tournament.  But the reality is I feel comfortable in those moments.  And sometimes, this year I've actually gone into the weekend where my score has been good by, but my game's been a little off and I've been a little bit hesitant, whether that's with my short game or my long game.  But I feel really good with where I am right now.  I feel like I had a really good practice session yesterday.  Obviously a strong round today, but each day's a little different so hopefully we can keep it going.
Q. You had mentioned conditions.  What's it like out there today?
BEAU HOSSLER: It's soft.  I think we got, it had to be an inch of rain over night, at least.  The greens are absolutely perfect.  The golf course is in mint condition.  The rough is long and thick, particularly with the rain, but it's scorable.  If you get the ball in the fairway -- they give you a lot of space off the tee, it's just very penal if you miss it.  So fortunately I got the ball off the tee pretty long and straight today, given the conditions, and was able to be pretty aggressive into the greens.  With that said, there's some really narrow landing areas into the greens, even with wedges.  It's tough, if you get a little gust of wind you're in trouble.  So we had some mud balls today.  We played the ball down, a lot of mud balls, fortunately I didn't really have any affect me too bad until that 18th hole.  Kind of squirted out to the right there.  But I think it's very scorable.  Certainly, I'm sure, it's easier in the morning than the afternoon, but we'll see tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT