AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2017
Mischa Zverev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. FEDERER/M. Zverev   
6-1, 7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did you struggle to get up to the level from Sunday or did he just not let you play?  
MISCHA ZVEREV: I think he did not really let me play.  It's more like his shot's a little bit different than Andy's.  It was definitely hard to read where he's going, where he's returning.   
He just has so many more options, how he can, like, outplay me or pass me.  It was different, definitely different.   
 Q.  Do you look at this tournament as a positive, obviously not today, but how far you've come?  
MISCHA ZVEREV: Yes, of course it's a positive.  First time I've ever been in a quarter.  There's a lot of positive things I can take with me, hopefully take with me through the whole season, use the confidence to do well in many more tournaments to come.   
I think, yeah, it was a great 10 days in Melbourne.  I really enjoyed it here.  The whole family was there.  I played, I think, decent tennis.   
 Q.  What have you learnt most in these 10 days?  
MISCHA ZVEREV: That if you believe, all things are possible.  That you can still win a couple matches with serve-volleying against different players, against someone like John Isner or Andy Murray.   
If you stay in the tournament and focus, if you work hard, eventually you'll get your chance to prove yourself.   
 Q.  What is your schedule after that?  
MISCHA ZVEREV: Going to go to Germany and get ready for the Davis Cup.   
 Q.  Next tournament?  
MISCHA ZVEREV: Is Montpellier, Rotterdam, Marseille, so I'll stay in Europe.   
 Q.  Is there any goal?  
MISCHA ZVEREV: For this year?   
 Q.  Yes.  
MISCHA ZVEREV: Staying healthy, playing well, and then, I don't know, that's about it.   
 Q.  Any ranking?  
MISCHA ZVEREV: No, it's hard to forecast anything.  Half a year ago I was hoping I could maybe be, like, in the top 100.  Now I'm ranked a lot higher.  So you never know where the game's going to take you.   
If I stay healthy, then a lot of things are possible, I think, this year.  You never know, you might get hurt two days later after a tournament, like Rog did last year.  It changes.  It's very hard to foresee for the future.   
I want to stay healthy, look at the last couple days, look at the matches, see what I did, how I trained, and try to do the same for the rest of the season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT