UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2016
Noel Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Connecticut - 0, Boston College - 30   
 Q.  Quite a shot there.  
NOEL THOMAS: I'm all right.  Good hit.   
 Q.  Did you have to fight to get back on the field?  You always want to as a player, I'm sure.  
NOEL THOMAS: Yeah, it took a little fight.  But I got back out there.   
 Q.  You had a week off, coming into this game, thinking you could do things more than you have been doing.  Can you walk me through where you're most disappointed with the execution offensively?  
NOEL THOMAS: It's kind of been the same for the past couple weeks, not scoring points and all that.  That's a big thing right there, we're not scoring points and we need to.   
 Q.  Can you put your finger on why you're not scoring?  
NOEL THOMAS: It just comes down to execution.  Everybody has to do their job.  One guy's off, it's going to mess everything up, so we have to make sure we all play together and execute the plays.   
 Q.  Do guys start pressing?  Do people start trying to do too much?  
NOEL THOMAS: I don't think so.  I can't really speak for everybody else, but I know I don't.  It doesn't seem like other people do, either.   
 Q.  Is Donovan getting better?  
NOEL THOMAS: I think the biggest thing with him, the biggest difference from this week and last week for him is confidence.  He was really being a leader out there and taking control of that role.   
 Q.  You've gone three and a half games without a touchdown.  Does it blow you away?  I'm sure you came into the season thinking you had the pieces to be a pretty solid team on offense.  
NOEL THOMAS: Yeah, like I said, that's a big disappointment for me, not scoring points.  Obviously as a receiver, that's what you want to do, and it hasn't happened.   
 Q.  I know you guys are a team, but what does the record mean for you?  
NOEL THOMAS: For me?  I mean, I don't think it defines us.   
 Q.  The receptions, your reception record.  
NOEL THOMAS: It would be easier to talk about this if we won.  But it definitely, I'm proud that I did that.  I just want to keep moving and finish the last game strong.  So keep breaking my own record I guess.   
 Q.  You came into the season, thinking sets you up for a better Bowl game; what's it going to be like emotionally for the seniors?  
NOEL THOMAS: Yeah, it's all of our last game.  We've been playing there for four years, some guys been there for five.  It's going to be an emotional day and we obviously want to go out there strong and leave there with a win.   
 Q.  Going back to the offensive struggles, it seems like there was a change in philosophy at some point early in the year in terms of how to approach.  Do you feel that utilizes you guys and the playmakers you have in the best way?  
NOEL THOMAS: Yeah, you know, we plan to attack and get our playmakers the ball.  It all comes down to execution.  If we're not executing plays, our playmakers are not going to get the ball where they need to get the ball.  That's basically what it is.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT