SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: GEORGIA v ALABAMA
November 26, 2012
Dee Milliner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   While we wait on some questions, can you just talk about your squad as you head into Atlanta this weekend versus Georgia?   
DEE MILLINER:   Very excited.   It's a great accomplishment for our team to be in the SEC Championship game.   We're just trying to come out, compete and be aggressive.   Hopefully we can come out with the win on Saturday.  
   
 Q.   Do you think this week will raise the profile of the reputation of your league even more?   It doesn't even matter at this point externally, but it matters in recruiting after all the SEC has done in the last six years, do you think people even look at this anymore?   
DEE MILLINER:   I think it can help us a lot.   Seeing two great teams in the game, and the way that we know we're going to come out and have to compete on both sides of the ball.   It can help us out in a lot of ways.   Just to show the physical way we play is probably different from the other conferences.  
   
 Q.   You look at Aaron Murray and the Georgia receivers there and I think the top quarterback in the country in passing efficiency, and the Georgia receivers are having good games down the stretch here.   What kind of challenge is that going to be for the Crimson Tide secondary?   
DEE MILLINER:   It's going to be very challenging.   The different things that Aaron does back there throwing the ball and running it.   The receivers are doing a great job of connecting with him lately.   Just got to be able to lock in and focus on what we can do to keep being stable on our offense.   To try to stop them for the most part.   
But it's going to be a hard task because of the type of game it's going to be.   We know it's going to be a competitive, physical game, and they're going to try to be aggressive, and they're going to try to keep that to a minimum.  
   
 Q.   I don't know how far you are into study of Georgia and how much you've seen on TV, but how much does Georgia's offense remind you of the one you see in practice?   The two quarterbacks are pretty efficient.   Both teams have good tailback tandems.   Are there a lot of similarities in these two offenses that will be on the field Saturday?   
DEE MILLINER:   Yeah, you could say that because we both are balanced running and throwing the ball.   We've got two great quarterbacks with high pass efficiency.   So you could say that in a way to try to come out with us on defense, and try to stop them with the run and try to just keep their passes to a minimum, hopefully we can do a good job of containing them.  
   
 Q.   I know you all are number one in scoring defense and total defense.   The two close games that you have with LSU and Texas A&M, I know they were both went over 400 yards.   How much of that was the opponents and how much was mistakes that maybe you've fixed since then?   
DEE MILLINER:   It was great plays by the offense.   The team we played made great plays, but we could have done a better job of containing them and doing better on our end also.   
Since then we've been trying to focus in on the smaller things that we can do better to prevent those big plays and the things they were doing on offense.  
   
 Q.   I know last year was an odd situation where the national title game was another SEC game, basically.   But when a team makes the SEC Championship, is there a feeling that it is a National Championship in most years or do you acknowledge that next step afterwards?  
DEE MILLINER:   We take every game that we play as a real big game, because it's the next game on our schedule.   But this game, the SEC Championship, it's a big game for us.   It gives us a chance to win in the SEC going against a great team in Georgia, which is going to be a competitive game, aggressive.   But we try to focus in on each game.   We know this game is big, because it can help us out getting to the next game.   We're just trying to focus in on this one game and do the most that we can do to help ourselves out.  
   
 Q.   You guys as a defense are ranked number one in the country, despite losing all the talent you did off last year's defense.   Is it a simple matter of having a bunch of four‑star, five‑star elite guys.   Is it Coach Saban and Coach Smart's defense?   What is it?   
DEE MILLINER:   It's just a lot of guys that are buying into what we're trying to do here.   The standards that have been set around here, And the guys are doing the little things and playing the roles like they're supposed to.   Also the coaches, it always goes back to the coaches doing a great job of teaching us and helping us learn the things that we need to do so we can have a great team each year.  
   
 Q.   Is that something that comes from being in a place that has great defense, is there motivation to be just as good as the one before you?   
DEE MILLINER:   Oh, yeah, always.   When you play with a team that has a great defense or had a great defense before you got here, you want to keep the standard going each year to keep the reputation going each year you come in.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT