TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CONNECTICUT v OKLAHOMA
December 29, 2010
Jeremy Beal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JEREMY BEAL: If you get pressured, you can make -- anybody makes mistakes. The key is to get pressure.

 Q. What's this whole experience been like for you? You are one of the few guys that have played in the Fiesta Bowl. To get the chance to do it one last time, what's it like? 
 JEREMY BEAL: To end in a BCS Bowl is pretty special. My third time around. I have done everything there is to do around here. I'm just trying -- just trying to chill out at the hotel pretty much. Trying to mentor the young guys and lead them and tell them what to do, what not to do, and try to get them focused.

 Q. The young guys are out carousing, doing their thing, and the old guys saying: You be back here on time? 
 JEREMY BEAL: Pretty much (laughter).

 Q. Are there bad memories walking around here? 
 JEREMY BEAL: No. There is no bad memories. I'm sure I will get to the stadium and there will be some bad memories. Hopefully that will change on Saturday.

 Q. Do you address that? It is different years, different games, different opponents. 
 JEREMY BEAL: We look back at it. As a team, we're like, yeah, we have been there, done that. We know the mistakes we made.

 Q. What can you tell us about the running attack? How impressive is it? 
 JEREMY BEAL: It is very impressive. I don't think anybody stopped the running game. It is going to be tough to stop.

 Q. Who does UConn remind you of?
 JEREMY BEAL: I don't know. Nobody we played this year, I can tell you that. I would say Stanford. Stanford is the closest team.

 Q. You guys obviously have a lot of speed. They have got a lot of size on their offensive line. When those two things clash, what is the key to having speed beat size? 
 JEREMY BEAL: We need to be more physical on Saturday. That's the key.

 Q. Talk to me about the kind of challenge when you get a team like UConn that basically says, look, we can run the ball. That's what we do. We are going to tell you we're going to do it. We are going to go right at you. Also, almost like a man-to-man challenge. 
 JEREMY BEAL: It is. Up front it is going to be the O line against our D line. Whoever is more physical is going to win that battle.

 Q. When you come to the Fiesta Bowl, I imagine you are going to play a named opponent. So was it like when you first found out: We are playing who? Connecticut? 
 JEREMY BEAL: I knew who Connecticut was. They're a good team. Any team that wins five in a row and ends their season, it is going to be a tough team to play. I know we have our hands full. 
 It is going to be a good game. 

 Q. Did you have any teammates that didn't know who Connecticut was? 
 JEREMY BEAL: I don't know. Probably some of the younger guys. I definitely knew who they were.

 Q. Do you ever get bored of this? You said this is your third go-around. This is a big deal for UConn. For you guys it is kind of old hat. 
 JEREMY BEAL: No, never get bored. It is a BCS game, you won't get bored with it. Excited to be here and excited to play another BCS game. 

 Q. Do you expect UConn to be a little bit shell-shocked by playing a team such as yours and being in a BCS Bowl to start off with? 
 JEREMY BEAL: No, we are a team just like any other team. We are no better than them. They are just like us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT