U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 1994
Judy Dickinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LES UNGER:  We have Judy Dickinson who at 66 is the co-leader
but the low pro at the moment.

 JUDY DICKINSON:  Rub it in.  Go ahead.

 LES UNGER:  Would you please share with us your non-par holes;
how you did, only those.

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I bogeyed the second hole, I missed my -- I
hit a 5-iron to the right of the green and chipped it about six
feet by and missed it coming back.  The next hole I put a 7-iron
about three feet and made that for birdie.  Then I 3-putted --
hit a 4-iron into the next hole and I 3-putted it.  And number
6, I hit a 5-iron about 8 feet and made that for birdie, 5-iron.
 Number 12, I hit a wedge -- pitching wedge in the hole, made
eagle.  13, I hit a 5-wood about 25 feet and made that for birdie.
 15, I hit a pitching wedge about six inches; made that for birdie.
 16, I hit a 6-iron about six or seven feet, made that.  17, I
hit a 5-wood about 18 feet, made that for birdie. Then the last
hole I hit an 8-iron iron.  I pulled it left and 3-putted; made
bogey.

 LES UNGER:  Judy, in counting the results published here,
13 of the last 14 years you were in the Open but not in 1989 when
it was here.  What was the story in that year?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I was having twins.

 LES UNGER:  Good reason to be absent.  How about a general
assessment of the course and your play today.  We had heard people
talking about the length of the course and the difficulty, but
there is a lot of red numbers out.

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I think, you know, this morning there wasn't
a breath of air out there.  We were talking about -- we probably
caught the course this morning -- we were very lucky, there was
no wind, a little bit of rain last night, I think, maybe softened
the greens up a little bit so they weren't -- some of them held
pretty well.  The wind -- when we played yesterday's practice
rounds, it really played long because the wind seemed to be in
your face on the longer holes.  But today, you know, it played,
I think, fairly reasonable, you know, for an Open course.  Not
overly long.

 Q.  The top three names on the leader board have a combined
58 years of Open experience.  Is that more than a coincidence?
 Could you analyze that for us?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  Well, I think any time you get into a major
championship or a tournament on a harder golf course, probably
a lot of experience you don't get to -- you know, if something
goes wrong, you don't let it bother you too much because you know
people are going to make mistakes.  Everyone is going to make
mistakes.  You don't, maybe, get too concerned about it and try
too keep plugging along that, I think, if you are out here a number
of years, I think you learn that as opposed -- there are certain
greens, I think, you know, to go at and certain greens not to
hit at pins and that probably takes a lot of experience.

 Q.  What happened over on number 12?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  Number 12 I hit a pitching wedge into the hole.


 Q.  From how far?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  100 yards.  Made eagle.  It hit, I think, pin
high and came back and spun back into the hole.

 LES UNGER:  Carol Semple Thompson, describing her eagle, said
she sculled the 5-iron 170 yards.

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I was talking to a USGA officials; she said,
well, they were a little bit behind, so that really got them back
into position.

 Q.  What was the last time you shared the lead with an amateur?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I don't think I have shared the lead with an
amateur.  I was joking with Carner coming to the last hole, she
said -- because she had -- on 17 she hit this shot right at the
flag and I had actually hooked mine a little bit, she hit it right
at the flag; ended up spinning down to the right -- to the right
of mine.  I looked at her, I said, "your way."  She
goes -- funny how that green is, but she had the same putt and
I was able to make the putt because she missed hers, but we were
talking at the next hole, she said "good putt."  I said,
"I know, just got to beat this "ami" (amateur)
somehow."  So we started cracking up.  No, Carol played 
-- that is terrific, to go out and play a round like that, I think
got everybody fired up looking at the board, I think.

 Q.  One of the biggest factors today in terms of weather,
you know, how did it affect your play?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  The weather?

 Q.  Yeah, humidity and whatnot.

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I just think it was -- we were expecting to
have rain probably all morning while we played and when we didn't
get it, I think every hole that we went out, wind or rain, it
was a plus.  So I think it was just perfect to play this morning.
 We were very lucky because there wasn't any wind either.  It
was very windy yesterday, it was very difficult.

 Q.  Did you ever play with Carol or against Carol Thompson
in your amateur days, and what were your impressions of her?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I have never played with her. I didn't really
play that much amateur golf, so I don't think I have ever been
paired with her.

 Q.  Judy, everyone in your group is under par.  Is it kind
of a feeding frenzy, are you kind of off each other all day?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I have always liked playing with somebody --
you know, with a group that is playing well and people making
putts.  I played practice rounds with Carner the last couple of
days, then we knew we were paired together; I think that helped
me too.  Carner is a kind of player, no matter where she hit,
a lot of times she will come up with par, so it is good to play
with somebody that, you know, you don't have to hit it perfect
to score; you don't have to apologize for not hitting it on the
fairway and down the green so...

 Q.  So, how was Carner playing?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  She played pretty well.  Jan was playing pretty
well.  The whole group was playing well.  I think that helped
because we were all playing well.

 Q.  Jan got into some trouble at hole number 5, she was mad
about -- maybe you saw her ball was on some sod that--

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I saw her ask for a ruling on 5.  I don't think
they gave her a drop.  But I didn't know exactly what it was she
was asking about.

 Q.  Was there new clumps of sod?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I don't know.  I didn't walk over there.  They
have an official with each group.  The official went over there
and looked at it.  I saw that she didn't get a drop.  She ended
up making double there.  Then she came right back.

 Q.  How far away was your 3-putt on 18; way off --

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I was all the way on the left fringe, so it
was good.  It had that big mound and actually was slower down
that hill than I thought it was.  I probably could have 2-putted,
but it was probably about 40, 50 feet.

 Q.  How about on the third hole where you 3-putted?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  Third hole I was -- pin was back right and I
was back left, and I just totally misread it, and the ball broke
strongly.  I ended up like six, seven feet below the pin to the
right and missed it coming back up the hill.  I just totally misread
that one.  I had a hard time on some of the putts starting out;
getting a feel for the greens, but as we went along, I got a little
bit more comfortable.

 LES UNGER:  Were they that different today than practice days?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  The hard thing I am -- well, there is a lot
of, you know, with all the mounds in them, they are not just break
right, break left.  There is a lot of double breaks, and there
is a lot of different speeds on the green if you are going up
hill.  They are very slow, but if you get on a slope, plus with
the grain, all of a sudden it is very, very fast and you can go
from very slow to very, very fast.  So, sometimes it is hard to
-- if you have a longer putt with some breaks, it is hard to get
the speed on them.

 Q.  The eagle over on 12 started a real strong 6-hole stretch
for you.  How important was that for you mentally?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  Well, I just -- I had been kind of, you know,
going along and hitting it.  I just missed it like a three footer
at 9 for birdie, and had a fairly good birdie putt at 10, and
left it short at 11.  So I was kind of waiting for something to
happen, and that really got me going; to all of a sudden get to
two under, that really got me going; then because I was kind of
messing around with it and couldn't quite get under par, so that
helped.

 Q.  Do you think it is conceivable for an amateur to actually
win the Women's Open?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  Sure, I think an amateur could win the Open.
Like I said, I hadn't played with Carol, I don't know her game.
 I don't -- I really don't -- I don't know how -- I guess, obviously
she played well today, so -- but sure, I think an amateur can
win the Open.

 Q.  Are you putting better nowadays than you were a couple
of years ago?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  I am a streaky putter.  It is probably still
the, you know, the most nervous part of my game.  When I get it
going, I am good.  And I have started putting better the last
three or four weeks.  I have started putting better each week,
so I am kind of on an upswing that way, so...

 Q.  What is your approach getting ready for an Open course
as opposed to courses that you see week to week on the regular
Tour; something you have to work out on the practice rounds?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  The biggest difference is, I think, the tour
we don't play a lot of the older courses anymore.  We play a lot
of the newer, and a lot of resort courses, and public courses.
 A lot of the older courses, I think, have greens that are much
faster than when we play -- what we play all year.  They have
much -- like, mounds like this.  We very rarely play courses like
that during the year, so I think that is the hard part; coming
in here is getting -- lucky thing for us is last couple of years
we have been coming from Wykagyl which the last two years is a
terrific -- they could hold an Open on it very easily.  It is
a terrific golf course, and coming from there, you have to be
long there, drive the ball, work the ball, and the greens are
normally very fast so that really helps playing there, I think,
that week; then coming to here because you played a very difficult
golf course before coming in here.

 Q.  What do you expect the remainder of this weekend?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  As far as scoring?

 Q.  Yeah, your game.

 JUDY DICKINSON:  Well, I think this is the kind of golf course
that, you know, if you just keep it in play -- and the important
thing out here, a lot these greens you got to get your approach
shots on the right side of these mounds on these greens that are
split in the middle with the humps.  You have got the difficult
putt if the pin is on the left side of the mound, and you are
on the right side, that is the key.  Sometimes you are better
off short; putting straight up through the mounds and the pin
high, you know, trying to -- so if you just keep it in play --
it just depends on the weather.  That could be a real factor out
here.  If that wind gets blowing, it is going to be a lot more
difficult.  I was hoping to just keep -- you know, when you get
under par at the Open, all I was thinking today was just get as
many as you can because if it gets bad, you are going to give
some back somewhere.  So, you know, get as many as you can now,
lock them, so...

 Q.  So, in other words, the scores could be a lot higher this
weekend?

 JUDY DICKINSON:  Oh, sure.  If it gets -- yesterday it was really
hard to play with that wind, and if it gets blowing like it did
yesterday, the scores will go right up.

  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT