WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2000
Sonya Jeyaseelan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Good afternoon, Ladies and Gentlemen. I have Sonya Jeyaseelan. 

Q. I would say your biggest victory so far was the win over Venus. Would this compare
with that?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I didn't feel the same way because I've now played a lot of top
players and I've had some wins over them. But, I mean, at Wimbledon, she's coming off the
finals of the French Open, I haven't -- it hasn't sunk in yet. I think it's almost the
same as beating Venus.

Q. Almost the same? 

SONYA JEYASEELAN: Pretty much the same.

Q. Maybe a little bit more?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I would say a little bit more because it's Wimbledon, it's a Grand
Slam, and this is where you play the big players. If you have an upset, I mean, I always
enjoy. I just have to stay calm because I have doubles still today. Tomorrow I'll enjoy
it. 

Q. Were you surprised at how easy it was for you to win that second set especially?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: Yeah. Well, she has a game that is like a clay courter, she's going
to be patient, work the point. She started playing a little better the first game of the
second set. I was shocked actually how easy it was for me. But on the other hand, the
first set I was up 3-Love. I made myself make it difficult for me. Actually, I played much
better, too, in the second. I gained more confidence. I saw the ball even bigger, so I was
more aware of what's happening. 

Q. You've been around for quite awhile. What's made the difference this year?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: Well, I've had a career very up-and-down. I trained with my dad till
I was 18. I had to take a break from that. I took almost two years, traveled on my own,
just to find myself, who I am, to play for myself. Finally I moved to Toronto, started to
have a better life. Then I decided that it's time to train hard again to be Top 50, to get
where my goal is. I moved back to Florida. I trained starting November of '99. I'm able to
train six hours a day. I don't have to drive all over the place. It's much easier for me,
I'm more relaxed in that atmosphere.

Q. Where are you training?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I'm training in Delray Beach in Florida at ITA, International Tennis
Academy.

Q. Do you have a coach?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I have a coach. I have like two coaches. They work with me on and off
at the academy and on the road. The one here on the road is Alan Ma. At home is Andre
Lebel who is also French Canadian.

Q. From the courtside, it appeared as though Conchita was a forlorn figure who wasn't
perhaps giving it a hundred percent out there. Would you agree with that?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: It's hard to say because I was focusing more on my game. I noticed
some balls she didn't seem to run down as much. But it's grass and it's faster. I have two
hands off both sides. Maybe it's harder for her to read the ball, I don't know. I give her
some credit, too. She is coming off the French Open, playing two weeks of clay court
matches. But on the other hand she had a good win over Anne Kremer. If she was not really
a hundred percent, she should have lost to Anne Kremer, because Anne Kremer is having an
unbelievable game on this surface.

Q. It's a testimony to how well you played rather than how badly she played?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: Yeah.

Q. When you were having some of your downs, did you ever think, "I'm not going to
make it"? 

SONYA JEYASEELAN: There was once where I took six weeks off last year after the US Open
to reevaluate my whole situation. I've always enjoyed playing. I've always been a good
competitor. I've always had good wins here and there. I decided to give it one more shot
and work really hard at it because, I mean, I'm talented, but not a born talent where I
can't train. I said, if I give it my best shot, if it doesn't work, I can pack it up.
Obviously it's showing that it's working, and I'm going to keep going for it.

Q. What would you have attempted to do instead?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: Well, go back to school and study interior design or fashion,
something related to tennis.

Q. Is that something you'd go into after tennis?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I'd love to, yeah. Love to design sport clothing or interior design.

Q. Have you tried any of that already?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I've done my own place (laughter). 

Q. Have you ever thought of designing your own tennis clothes?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: Yeah, also for like a major company. I'm not interested right now. My
goal is tennis right now, stay focused. But I've always enjoyed being different than other
people, wearing different things, just having that eye.

Q. Can you tell us a little bit about your origin. 

SONYA JEYASEELAN: My father is Indian, my mother is Sri Lankan. I was born in Canada.

Q. Have you ever visited?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I've never been to India or Sri Lanka yet. My parents are trying to
get me over there to play tennis, play some challengers, be seen as well over there. In
those countries, I don't think there's very many female athletes in general, in any sport.
I think it would be a good idea to get the youngsters aware that they can also achieve it.

Q. If you go, would you go to India or Sri Lanka ?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: Probably both. If I go that far, I'll make sure I do two in one.

Q. Is English the first language you learned?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: Yes. My parents spoke to me in English.

Q. Where do your parents stay now?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: They live in Vancouver.

Q. Do you find it difficult to concentrate on your doubles after this?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: No. No. Actually, I'm looking forward to going out on the court again
and playing because this will help me maintain and not bring out all my energy just over
this one win. It will settle me down. I can go out and feel the ball again, go out and
have some fun. Tomorrow I think I will have the day off, so I can take it easy, practise a
little bit, get some treatment, be ready for the next match.

Q. You seem pretty excited when you came in. Have we calmed you down?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I was excited. I have to be. I have to enjoy that moment. It's not
every day you get those moments in your career, so I had to also enjoy it as well. I mean,
that's why you work hard. 

Q. Were you able to keep your cool as you got closer and closer to pulling off the win?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: At 5-Love, I didn't expect to be up so easy at 5-Love. She is serving
to stay in the match. I sort of rushed a little bit, but I was feeling confident, seeing
the ball, moving well. A little bit of nerves started to come. I said, "It's okay,
now you get to serve, you can control the pace." As soon as that happened, I was much
more relaxed. I closed it out.

Q. Do you particularly like grass?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: Well, I've always had poor results on the grass, so I'd always tell
myself, "Maybe you don't enjoy it, you don't have the game style for it." But I
do have the game style. I have short, quick back swings, I'm low to the ground. It's an
advantage. I do have a decent serve, which surprises the girls. I don't serve-and-volley,
but I'll come in once in a while and take it out of the air. The courts are playing slow.
It's almost like you're playing on hard courts. That helped me out, too. I think with her
slice on a faster surface would have been much more difficult to get under.

Q. What about playing on the show court, Court 2, did you know about the graveyard?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I knew about the graveyard court. At one point it came into mind that
she lost I think against Sam Smith on this court. I'm not quite sure. Whether it was on
Centre Court or graveyard court or Court 13 - I don't know, what are the other courts - I
don't think it would mean a difference unless it played a factor in her head.

Q. Crowd seemed pretty fair to you, almost as though they were as much for you. 

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I think the crowd is always sometimes behind the underdog. They like
to see, I'm sure, new faces out there. I mean, if you're playing well, the crowd likes the
personality, they get into it, I think it was great that they were behind me. I loved it.
I mean, that's why I love playing tennis, is to perform for the people. If I wasn't a
tennis player, I would have been a figure skater.

Q. How good a figure skater were you?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I was already competing in provincials in British Colombia. I was
only 12 and 13. I mean, if I would have focused on skating, I could have probably done
well, too. It's a different lifestyle. I'm happy I chose this one.

Q. Why did you choose tennis?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: Why? I didn't really have the choice. My dad sort of made that
choice. He made the right choice. I love tennis at the same time, as I love figure
skating. But it was something he could get involved with. He couldn't skate himself. He
was always falling.

Q. With the coaching, was it difficult with your father?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: It was a very difficult time. It was not difficult till I was
approximate my teenage years. As soon as you're reaching your 15, 16, you want to become
-- you want to do your own things, you want to be independent, you want to make your own
decisions. It's difficult. Your parent says one thing, you want to do one thing, there's a
little bit of friction. I've been with my dad since I was six years old, day in and day
out. He moved to Bollettieri's with me. He did everything for me. He was my cook, my
coach, he did my laundry, he helped me with schoolwork. After a while, you just become,
you need space. It's healthy. 

Q. How about now?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: We have a great relationship now. It took almost four years to
develop a relationship. It's never perfect. It won't are perfect. But he's come around.
He's understood that, you know, his daughter he has to let go at one point in time. He
can't just hold on to me forever. 

Q. What does your mother feel about all this, about you, your father, the problems?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: It was difficult. The culture is very different. I mean, as a female
in the marriage, she can't be telling him exactly what to do. She's going along with it.
She's happy, you know, to see her daughter succeed. It's difficult. Sometimes it's not in
the most healthiest environments. I mean, she probably also wanted to see her daughter be
something different in life and have a better opportunity in life. That's probably why
they came to Canada, too. I mean, I don't know if I would have had the opportunities in my
generation in Sri Lanka or India. 

Q. I'm not sure the results, you could play Lisa Raymond next round. 

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I didn't check. 

Q. You do. 

SONYA JEYASEELAN: She won? 

Q. How do you feel about that?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: I'm excited. She probably has a good game on this stuff. Last time we
played, I beat her on the clay. I have nothing to lose. I'm still the underdog. I know how
she plays. I'm just going to make sure that I stay focused and I stay hungry, I fight and
stay in the process the whole match. The better player's going to win that day, so. 

Q. Have you been asked why you play the double Chrissy?

SONYA JEYASEELAN: The double-handed off both sides? 

Q. Yes. 

SONYA JEYASEELAN: When I started, I was very tiny and I couldn't hold the racquet with
one hand. My dad made me hold with two hands to have the strength to (indicating). It's
unorthodox, ugly, but it was working for me. When Seles came up, he was so happy with the
decision (laughter). He was like, "That's it, okay, I made the right choice for
Sonya." 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT