THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 6, 2019
Cori Gauff
Jay Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LINDSTEDT-OSTAPENKO/Clarke-Gauff
6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was it like playing with a superstar in the making?
JAY CLARKE: No, it was great.  I didn't play well at all today, but no, it was a lot of good shots from her.
Q. What was Jay like to play with?  Do you complement each other on court?
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, it was super fun to play with him.  Thank you for playing with me.  I hope we can play again together in the future.
Q. Is it the fruits of a decent relationship here going forward?
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, definitely.
Q. Was it quite good for you after all the drama last night to get back out on court to take your mind off things and go out and play tennis?
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, I was able to hit a couple of good serves, got my serve back on track.  Practice some returns against the big-guy serve.  I think it will help me in the match on Monday.
Q. You have been getting a lot of attention.  I saw Michelle Obama tweeted you.  That was a pretty big deal.  Wondering if you said anything back to her, whether she's been in touch personally or what it means to have someone like that...
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, I just saw the tweet.  We don't talk personally.  I don't have her number or anything.  I would like that (smiling).
I was super excited.  She's one of my role models.  So it was just cool to see that she knows I exist.
Q. What about her is a good role model for you?
CORI GAUFF: Just the way she kind of handles herself.  When she was, when Mr. Obama was in office, she got a lot of slack for it, but I think she carried herself well the whole term.
Q. If I said to you at the start of the tournament you'd be speaking about the Obamas and they'd be talking about you, how would you have felt?
CORI GAUFF: I'm sorry, what's your question?
Q. The Obamas know who you are and they're talking about you, would you imagine that would have happened two weeks ago?
CORI GAUFF: Oh, no.  I didn't think I was coming here two weeks ago.  All this has kind of happened quickly.
Q. You're in a bubble here in London, but are you aware of what's happening around the world and the significance of what you're doing?
CORI GAUFF: Not really, to be honest.  The people here are great.  I think that the people here, their kind of representation of what's going on around the world -- I saw videos back at home of people screaming after a match.  And I saw somebody painted a mural of me in Fort Lauderdale.  That was pretty cool.
Q. I saw a video off your Instagram Live where you're losing your mind a bit, 'I love clapping.'  How did that actually feel?  Obviously Jaden.
CORI GAUFF: I don't know if I want to go live again because of that, but I was so happy.  I mean, I have looked up to Jaden for so long.  People who follow me know that's all I post about.  I kind of slowed down on it a little bit, but still, it was pretty exciting for me.
Q. Are you a Jaden fan, Jay?
JAY CLARKE: Yeah, definitely.  Definitely a big fan.  His new album just came out, as well.
Q. Any good?  I don't know much about him.
CORI GAUFF: I only got to hear it once.  I have been so busy, everything has been going like this (snapping fingers).
JAY CLARKE: Yeah, I liked it.
Q. How would you describe yourself?
CORI GAUFF: Weird.  Weird, goofy, and, I don't know.  Yeah, weird and goofy, I guess.
Q. What, for you, has been the best part of all of this over the last week or so?
CORI GAUFF: Jaden and Michelle Obama tweeting about me.
Q. More so than the tennis side of it?
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, the tennis is obviously great, but that is definitely a plus to it.
Q. Jay, how do you look back on this tournament?
JAY CLARKE: Oh, it's been unbelievable, obviously.  Getting a wildcard in.  Winning my first match here.  Playing Federer.  Obviously playing with Coco.  There is so many positives to take from it.  Yeah, I'm sure I'll remember this one.
Q. Looking forward to Monday, another big match for you.  How do you approach Halep?  What do you know about her?  How do you think your game styles match up?
CORI GAUFF: I think I'm just going to approach her like every other match I have been approaching.  My routine has been working pretty well so that's how I'm going to go into the match.
Q. Does it feel any different going into the second week of a Grand Slam?
CORI GAUFF: I don't know.  We'll see when I go on the court.
Q. This time last year were you watching on telly back home?
CORI GAUFF: Yes, I was actually playing juniors last year and I lost in the quarters.  So this is definitely a big step from that.
Q. I just wanted to ask, do you two have any prematch rituals you go through, any particular songs you can share with us?
JAY CLARKE: Together?
Q. No, separately.
JAY CLARKE: I was going to say, no, it's pretty new.
I like to listen to -- I love music that keeps me calm before matches, because obviously when you get out there there's a lot of nerves anyway.  Yeah, I like to find my own space, put some relaxed music on.
CORI GAUFF: I like to look at prank videos on YouTube and listen to music.
Q. Is everything okay with Harriet now?  Are you kind of on good terms?  Would you play together with her again?
JAY CLARKE: Yeah, no, everything is fine.  I think the media obviously did a pretty good job of making it bigger than what it was.  It happens like that.
Q. I know you said in the initial discussions about it that it would be the same if she went off with Federer.  Quite high praise for Cori.
JAY CLARKE: No, definitely.  You look at the people she's obviously being compared to and the past champions that have won this that have said it.  It was a lot of praise, rightly so.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT