AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2020
Cori Gauff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GAUFF/S. Cirstea   
4-6, 6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I want to talk about the amazing comeback. You had a shift in the third set. Talk about your mindset, what changed?  
CORI GAUFF: I think I was just trying to stay calm mostly and stay positive. I've always believed that I can come back regardless of the score.   
I think Love-30, 0-3 -- I think it was Love-30, that's when I think I kind of changed everything and decided to be more aggressive.   
 Q.  It was Love-3, Love-30. For you does it come naturally when you are able to be more aggressive down the stretch? She pulled off the gas a little bit, but it seems like you put your foot on the gas.  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, the whole match I knew I needed to be more aggressive. I guess I finally decided to do that even though I wish I decided earlier. That's okay.   
But, yeah, I think I kind of felt the momentum changing. I knew I had to keep pressing.   
 Q.  Was it fun down the stretch? Did you enjoy yourself?  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, I enjoyed it. The crowd was really into it. It was a good match. Even though I was on the losing spectrum, I still think maybe in a couple hours I'll still say I still had fun regardless if I won or lost.   
 Q.  Next you have Naomi. Tell us about what your mentality and confidence is going to be going into there, already having played her on a big stage?  
CORI GAUFF: I think I'll be less nervous this time. I think US Open I was nervous. It was my first time on Ashe. We're both familiar with each other's games. She plays really aggressive. This time coming in I'm going to be more aggressive.   
 Q.  Will you be more confident?  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, for sure more confident because I felt her ball before. Yeah, I think I'm more confident this time around.   
 Q.  Is it a bit of a case of nothing to lose when you come to these Grand Slams for the first year or two, a match against an incredible opponent? Can you go with an open mind, take what's in front of you?  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, I think in general my mindset has always been nothing to lose really. Even when in juniors, even though I was ranked pretty high in juniors, I was technically supposed to win. Then I still felt like I had nothing to lose.   
I still feel that now. I think my mindset just is I'm going to fight. If I lose, the world is not going to end. I'm going to have another match in maybe a week or so.   
I think it's just less pressure to win. I feel like for me, I'm not trying to win so much but trying to play my best tennis on the court. Winning comes with that if I play good.   
 Q.  The way that Naomi reacted to you after that US Open match, how important was that at that moment? Do you feel you have a bit of a bond with her?  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, it was definitely a good moment I think for both of us, especially me. But I think more just for the people watching, the little girls watching and little boys who can kind of see what sportsmanship is really.   
I think that's something if I had a child or something, that's something I would want my child to see. It just shows what being a competitor really is. You might hate the person on the court, but off the court you love them, not really like hate. But you want to win. Sometimes when we're on the court, we say things we don't mean because we have that mentality.   
When it's all said and done, we still look at each other with respect and the same.   
 Q.  I want to ask you about your cheering squad. Your parents are always there. Talk about who was in the crowd today. How much did it mean to you to have that support?  
CORI GAUFF: I didn't get the girls' names. I did give them wristbands and towels and everything. I didn't get their names. They were really nice. They were cheering really loudly. I think Alessandro was trying to get them 'Call Me Coco' shirts, too. That really changed the momentum of the match, just the crowd in general.   
The same thing happened at US Open, too, and Wimbledon. The crowd really can change the way a match goes.   
 Q.  You didn't know them?  
CORI GAUFF: No, I didn't know them. But now I do.   
 Q.  A while ago you said getting your driver's license would be a huge accomplishment.  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah.   
 Q.  What is the process? Learning permit?  
CORI GAUFF: I have my permit now, so I finally did that. Actually I would show you but I don't have it on me. My mom has it because I almost lost it here. I don't know why I brought it to Australia with me.   
I have my permit. Yeah, I drive, try to -- my dad lets me drive more than my mom. But my mom, I try to force her to let me drive. I need practice. When I'm 16 and I get my license, I'm going to be going to Chick-Fil-A and everywhere without my parents.   
 Q.  Was it more nerve-wracking driving around Florida or going out on center court at a major?  
CORI GAUFF: Honestly, the first time I drove on a highway was really nerve-wracking for me. Also driving with my brothers in the car was nerve-wracking. My youngest, he's pretty nice. My older -- well, he's younger than me. My older younger brother, he gives me good criticism when it comes to driving. They get mad when I drive slow. I don't understand. I'm driving the speed limit, but that's slow for them.   
 Q.  Would you be scared to drive on the left side?  
CORI GAUFF: Yes, yes. I have to remind myself when crossing the street to look both ways so I don't get hit by a car. I definitely don't want that to happen.   
 Q.  When was it that you first learned to drive? After Wimbledon that you got your permit?  
CORI GAUFF: No, I actually got my permit during the off-season. I was already technically driving then, but it was like on back roads, getting a feel for it. I got my permit, I don't know, October or November, one of those months.   
 Q.  What did you feel like was the quality of your tennis today? It felt like after the first set, she was playing good ball. You made tactical changes, put more shape on the ball. Did you feel this was maybe one of your best Grand Slam matches?  
CORI GAUFF: I think fighting-wise, yes. I felt like I could have played better today. Definitely I think I changed the course of the match very good today. Normally I feel like I take a while to make those decisions when it comes to changing strategy-wise.   
I think I adjusted pretty quickly today to how the match was going. Especially in the second set, I had a pretty comfortable lead. I knew in the third set it was going to be close, and it was close. It really came down really to that break at 5-All. That was a very good moment in the match for me.   
 Q.  You mentioned your brothers. Your brother Cameron has a little bit of game. Talk about that.  
CORI GAUFF: Cameron is six. He's seeming to like tennis and basketball, that seems the sports he's gravitating to.   
Do I want him to play tennis? We'll see. I feel bad for my parents if he does play tennis because it's a lot compared to basketball.   
Cody, he's 12. He's more playing baseball and basketball, typical American sports. Yeah, he's pretty good at those.   
I know how they feel watching me now. Because when I watch them, I'm such like that loud lady in the stands.   
 Q.  You're focused on your immediate match coming. Today's win puts you one step closer to a possible match with Serena. Have you thought about that? Her poster was on your wall. Is it still there?  
CORI GAUFF: We moved houses so I haven't really put -- I don't have any posters on my wall. Last time I got in trouble for messing up the wall with those posters.   
Yeah, I haven't really thought about that, to be honest. I didn't even know Serena was on my side of the draw. I don't look at draws. I just know I play Naomi. I'm looking forward to that. I have doubles tomorrow, so I'm mainly focused on that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT