AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2020
Cori Gauff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. GAUFF/V. Williams
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You had an interesting exchange with your dad in Auckland. Was there a moment at the end of the second set when you wished you could have had him come on court and help you?
CORI GAUFF: Which exchange? The one that went viral is me telling him not to curse. I really don't remember much besides that main one. I mean, I listen to what he says. You're in the moment, you forget sometimes. I really have no idea what was said.
Q. How different were the emotions and the sensations of playing her this time compared to last time?
CORI GAUFF: I definitely was more confident this time. I think I was used to playing on big courts, so the crowd -- I guess the size of the crowd didn't startle me as much as last time.
Yeah, definitely a bit more positive coming into this match this time around.
Q. What kind of challenges does Venus pose to you as an opponent?
CORI GAUFF: Serve, obviously. I'm pretty sure she aced me in double-digits, if not the double-digits. She hit a lot of winners. It was hard, I guess, to get aggressive against her. We all know she's normally the aggressor in these type of matches.
I was trying to put the ball in play, gut it out. I'm glad I was able to. She was striking the ball well and hitting her targets well today.
Q. How surprised were you when you saw the draw and saw that you were going to be playing her again? You described her and her sister Serena as people you look up to. How difficult is it to play somebody like that, play your idol?
CORI GAUFF: First, I was shocked again, just like the second time around, just because that blew up. You probably wouldn't think it would happen so soon in the first round of a major again.
Yeah, obviously I look up to them. Every time, even just walking by them, I have to remember that even though they're my idols, they're also going to be my opponents sometimes. I have to remember that, too, as well.
Q. How much do you think and in which ways have you improved and changed since you played Venus at Wimbledon last year?
CORI GAUFF: I definitely think I served better this match. I feel like I was hitting my shots a little bit better. I think last time, even though I still played -- I still think I played well last time, I think I was just trying to let her miss. That didn't work out.
I knew I had to be more aggressive this time. I think I resorted back to trying to make her miss this time. Once I figured that wasn't working out, I knew I had to get back to being aggressive.
Q. What is the challenge this year of being a known quantity more than you were going back a year ago?
CORI GAUFF: I feel like my mindset has changed since US Open. US Open I feel like I was on edge every match just because everyone was talking about US Open before Wimbledon even ended. So I knew that was the next thing.
I guess I came to the realization that I need to play my game, not worry about what people think of me. At the end of the day, I did have three good matches, both US Open and Wimbledon. I still have a lot more to, I guess, become like one of those big names. I feel like I still have a lot to improve, yeah.
Q. Today a commentator deep into the match said, You can see it in Coco's eyes, she's on a mission. What do you think your mission is? What is your mission in this sport?
CORI GAUFF: I mean, my mission is to be the greatest. That's my goal, to win as many Grand Slams as possible.
But for today, my mission was to win. I didn't want to let the nerves come to me. I know I had a couple set points, and she played well. I knew I had to take it from her. She wasn't going to give it to me. That was really the mission.
I think today has been the best match so far I played this year. I was a lot more focused. Yeah, I think today really showed what I worked on in my off-season.
Q. I think for a lot of us, it's amazing that you're playing like this at such a young age. Is there any way in which you're a typical teenager, 15-year-old?
CORI GAUFF: Yes. I don't know if you guys know, there's a new app called TikTok. I'm very active on that. I procrastinate a lot on that app. I have to do homework. I'm still procrastinating on that.
I mean, everyone thinks I'm so serious because of my on-court. Really I'm not. I don't really take life too seriously. I mean, I just like to have fun.
Same with my dad. I know my dad seems like this big, intimidating guy. But he's really more the jokester. He's the reason why I do...
We had that altercation on court, I told him not to curse. That's just how we talk with each other.
Q. You seem unfazed by anyone's reputation or stature in the game. Do you believe you can beat every player in the women's draw? Do you believe you can win this tournament?
CORI GAUFF: I mean, if I go into a tournament thinking I'll lose, then I'm going to lose.
To answer that, I respect everyone's game and I respect my opponent, but at the end of the day if I'm going to go against them, I can't say, Oh, I'm going to lose this match. That's not the right mentality to have.
Yeah, I believe I can beat anyone. If it happens, I don't know. But I think that's almost every player's mentality, I feel like. The ones who are the great ones, they don't really fear anyone. You respect your opponent, but you can't go into the match fearing someone, because then you're going to lose, and I don't want to lose.
Q. I'm quite surprised that a famous Italian brand, which is Barilla, has sponsored No. 1 in the world, Shiffrin in skiing, and Roger Federer, the greatest, someone says yes or not. You are 15 years old. You haven't won yet very much. How do you explain it? What do you think? Is just because Godsick is the same manager of Federer, or some other reasons?
CORI GAUFF: I don't really know the answer to that. Same with New Balance, with all my sponsors. They all believed in me, believed in my game. When I went to visit in Parma, they really liked me.
I think they just resort to personality. I think they believed that I have a chance to become like a Roger or someone. So I think that's the main thing with all my sponsors. I think they believe in me that I can become something greater. Yes, I may not have the titles now. Again, I'm 15, so I'm still learning with this.
I know Barilla, their values are more about being kind, being nice to everyone, not so much about numbers. Yes, they have two of the greatest of all time. Hopefully one day my name can be up there.
For now, I think they just believe in my values and my family's values. I think our values match up to the company's values.
Q. What are some of the pieces on TikTok you've enjoyed?
CORI GAUFF: Oh, gosh. I really like dancing. There's this dance called The Renegade that's really famous. We do that.
I don't know, whatever trends they have I try to do. I particularly like dancing. So, yeah, the dancing trends.
Q. You mentioned your dad earlier. You have a prematch routine you go through.
CORI GAUFF: Yes.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about what he says to you before the match, and then the first thing you said to each other after today's victory?
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, before the match we always say a prayer. We just hope that I'm healthy, my opponent is healthy, that I have a good time out there.
I believe the last thing he really says to me before I go on court, he gives me a kiss on the cheek and he says, Have fun. That's it.
Then after the match, yeah, Congrats. I didn't really see him till 45 minutes after the match. He's talking. He talks a lot. Yeah, he just said, Congrats, good playing, and I like the way your attitude was off the court.
He doesn't get too mad when I lose. It's more about how I act on the court. That's the biggest thing for him.
I haven't seen my mom yet. Yeah, she's more of the emotional one. She'll probably be, like, crying or something, I don't know.
Q. Speaking of dancing, your off-season looked like a lot of fun.
CORI GAUFF: Yes, finally somebody asked me about this.
Q. I'd like to know all about it. What were the highlights for you? What was it like spending all the time with Serena?
CORI GAUFF: My highlight definitely was the dance performance we did with Serena. That was really cool. Chris Eubanks, too.
Yeah, Serena and I, we didn't pick up the choreography as fast as everyone else. In the end we did well. She pulled a split, that was really cool. I had fun doing the Shaun T workout. That was my first time doing Insanity. Honestly, it's difficult.
Like, this guy, he can do everything. He was playing tennis with the same schedule as us. He was doing four hours of tennis, an hour of fitness, then he does the Insanity workout. He doesn't get tired.
Then Bob Sinclar, we had the fun DJ party after that. Then we did Amazing Race, too. So we did kayaking. It was like the Amazing Race like you see on TV.
I had a fun off-season definitely. It was like my first real off-season because I played juniors from coming. Orange Bowl is really in December, then you have to get back.
So this was my first real off-season. I hope I have more off-seasons like this, because clearly it paid off. I had really fun memories.
Q. You beat one of the greatest players in American history. Now your doubles partner Caty is doing really well.
CORI GAUFF: Did she win?
Q. She was up 3-1.
CORI GAUFF: Cool.
Q. How cool would it be if your good friend and doubles partner Caty beat one of the great Aussie legends of all time?
CORI GAUFF: Stosur, fun fact, was my first autograph ever. For Caty to play her was pretty cool. She's my first autograph ever. It was at the US Open, I remember it.
Yeah, Caty and I have a close relationship. Basically we're best friends on and off the court. We have a lot of fun. I'm excited. I don't know the score, but hopefully she pulls this out.
I'm excited for both of our futures because we get along so well and we are a good doubles team, good singles players. I'm really excited just to see what we can do.
Yeah, I wish the best for her. I mean, she's my best friend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT