US OPEN
August 29, 2019
Cori Gauff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GAUFF/T. Babos   
6-2, 4-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What did you think of round two?  
CORI GAUFF: Oh, it was great. I thought that the first set, I definitely was in control. In the second set, she raised her level and I wasn't able to finish the set.   
But she played amazing. I thought I played well, too. It was a great match.   
 Q.  In terms of the atmosphere, has this gotten to be a new normal for you yet?  
CORI GAUFF: For me it's still wild. This is the first time -- well, not the first time. The first round was the first time I actually had a chant, but today it was a lot louder and a little more consistent.   
I was thinking like maybe they feel like I'm Golden State in Game 7 or something. It's different because you're an individual player, so it's weird, I guess. Most of the time you hear the chants, it's for a whole team, not just for, like, me. So it was pretty cool.   
 Q.  What inspires you? Not when you step out on a massive court, but maybe when you're away from the camera, home, doubting yourself? What are some of the things that keep you going?  
CORI GAUFF: Definitely my brothers. They always tell me when I need to do better. They always congratulate me. Well, not always, but sometimes, when I do good. I always just want to be a good role model for them. My brother Cody, he's 11. I guess he's transitioning to be more serious in one sport.   
 Q.  Baseball?  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, baseball. He's up-and-coming. He does fitness with me a lot of the times. He comes to the gym with me a lot. I see that he kind of picks up to his level. He looks up to me, even though he doesn't admit it.   
 Q.  You had a big start. Did you feel less nervous than your first match?  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, definitely, I did feel less nervous. I mean, when you first walk out on Armstrong in general, it's a nervous feeling. So I'm glad that I was able to get through that first round. So today I was prepared and knew what to expect. I think that helped me in today's match.   
 Q.  After the match you said you weren't going to think about Naomi till Saturday. But what are you thinking going into that match? What do you think of her as a player?  
CORI GAUFF: Obviously she's an amazing player. She's defending champion. She's won two slams. She's No. 1. She's only 21. We're both pretty young. But I'm a little bit newer to the game. So I'm just curious to see how my game matches up against her. Obviously I want to win.   
I just want to enjoy it, have fun, enjoy the battle. We'll see how it goes. But my top priority right now is just doubles.   
 Q.  Do you think the doubles can be a little bit of a distraction? Do you think it can help you?  
CORI GAUFF: For me, doubles isn't a problem. I mean, juniors, I played doubles a lot of the times, almost every tournament if I can get into doubles, I'm playing it. To me it helps because it's a different game. I guess you get to work on volleys, you get to work on your returns a lot in doubles.   
I think that's actually going to prepare me for Naomi, because doubles to me is more faster paced than singles. Naomi actually hits the ball pretty hard. I think it will prepare me well for Saturday's match.   
 Q.  Did you watch Caty's match against Serena?  
CORI GAUFF: Yes, I watched. I knew I had to go to sleep. I can't go to sleep. I'm super proud of the way she played. Honestly, literally, she's 17. This is just the beginning.   
I didn't get to see her in person yet since that match, but I saw her coach and her mom. Just saying how proud I was of her. She's amazing. Her hands are amazing. I'm glad I'm playing on the same side of the court with her tomorrow.   
 Q.  Are you inspiring each other now?  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, for sure. I remember in Midland she won her first pro title. I lost second round that tournament. She kind of inspired me, like, okay, it's possible to do well, I think, just in general, not just me and Caty but all the young Americans.   
I saw Taylor won today. I think we're all just kind of pushing each other. Obviously when we play against each other, we don't want the other person to win. But literally when we're playing someone else, we root for each other. We grew up together and train together all the time.   
 Q.  Naomi was saying she sees you walking in the locker room with your headphones on, That looks familiar. What have your interactions been with her? Can you recall when you practiced with her when you were younger?  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, I practiced with her, I think I was 13, at Miami Open. That was super cool. I was able to keep the ball on the court. I was super nervous. She's prepping for a tournament so I didn't want to mess up her practice.   
But she's a super sweet person. I mean, my dad and her dad have known each other for a long time. They always talk all the time. We've known each other for quite a few times now. She's a great person. She's nice. Her mom is one of the nicest people ever. She's so amazing. Her whole family is just great.   
 Q.  What do you think you can take as such a young player to how Naomi has navigated success at an early age?  
CORI GAUFF: I think she just made it, I guess, possible. Last year, US Open, she wasn't really like a big contender. Obviously now this year she is. She had that amazing run, then the final. Honestly, I think she's a big inspiration for everyone. She's 21. She has two slams. She's still thriving [sic] for more.   
I think she's just a super sweet person on and off the court. She competes great out there. I think she shows us how to compete and the way to, like, be off the court, too.   
 Q.  Midway and late in the third set, you used a lot of defensive lobs, tennis lobs, backed her almost to the retaining wall. How much have you evolved those shots? Do you have a mindset of no shot is going to get past me?  
CORI GAUFF: I feel like my defense has always just been a big part of my game, even though I feel like I'm more offensive, I like to be more on the offensive end when I play. I think the first set, I didn't rely on defense too much. It was mainly me just playing well.   
But I think, like, I don't know, I just use it a lot when I need to. Like, I just remember running down a lot of balls that third set. You never know what happens if you just get your racquet over. I know sometimes a couple points she made mistakes on balls that were pretty easy. Just gave me motivation to try to get there. You never know what happens. When you're nervous, things can happen.   
I'm glad that most of the time my ball went in the court.   
 Q.  It's 11:30 now. Is this the latest you've ever been at work?  
CORI GAUFF: Well, depends the type of work. Schoolwork, I'm normally up late doing it just because, I don't know, I feel like my brain functions better at night when I'm doing school. It's normal for me to be up this late, but not playing tennis, I guess. I wouldn't consider tennis work because I actually had fun. I always have fun playing.   
I guess I would consider school work. No, not the latest for that.   
 Q.  You mentioned it after the match, but talk about being American, what that means?  
CORI GAUFF: Yeah, I mean, being American, playing in New York is amazing. I knew obviously I was going to be the favorite, especially after Wimbledon, but also being American. I didn't think it was going to be like that.   
People like me, but being in New York, being an American just made it 10 times better for me. Like, I'm really proud just to be a part of this country. I hope that I inspire a lot of people.   
I've played for my country before in Junior Fed Cup, that was an amazing experience as well. Hopefully one day I get to play the real-deal Fed Cup and maybe Olympics, too.   
 Q.  If you were in charge of the scheduling for Saturday, which court would you pick and what time slot?  
CORI GAUFF: Well, I'm pretty sure we're going to be on Arthur Ashe or Armstrong, definitely one of those two courts. Honestly, I don't care what time I play. I like playing in the heat, but I also like the energy of the night sessions. Whatever they give me, I'm going to be cool with it either way.   
I think we're going to be on Ashe, but if not Ashe for sure Armstrong.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT