WIMBLEDON
July 10, 2016
Yui Kamiji
Jordanne Whiley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







KAMIJI‑WHILEY/Griffioen‑Van Koot
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Yui, what can you tell me about Jordanne? Why do you work so well together on the doubles court?
YUI KAMIJI: Because we play, like‑‑ sorry, I'm nervous. 
We play many tournaments. We won many tournament together. We are very good friend. On the court we talk like normal, like laughing, some joking. So that's why very good, yeah. 

Q. What is Jordanne like as a partner? What's her personality like?
YUI KAMIJI: She's, like, little bit Japanese, I think. I am, like, English person. 
She wants to know everything, like, how do I feel, what I want to do. We talk many thing. She's nice person. I love her very much. 

Q. Jordanne, the same for you, your thoughts on Yui?
JORDANNE WHILEY: Yui is always happy. I can be quite an emotional rollercoaster. It's nice for me to have someone on the court who you know every single day, they're smiling and laughing, even when she feels a bit rubbish. 
For me, it's very uplifting. 

Q. Jordanne, you mentioned about the stress of having the singles from this tournament. Can you elaborate. 
JORDANNE WHILEY: Yeah, I think it was different coming into Wimbledon this year because of the singles. All I've ever known here is doubles, so we prepare our bodies and our minds to play two or three matches. Now we had to play singles on our own. We had to cover the court, which was more stress on our body. 
Also it's the first time we played singles, so it was more stress on our minds because everybody wanted to be the first one to go down in history to do that. 

Q. Was there also less time to practice the doubles with Yui?
JORDANNE WHILEY: Not really. We had, like, two weeks of practice on the grass, weather permitting, because it did rain quite a bit. Me and Yui are at that stage where we don't have to practice that much because we have a lot of experience together. When we come together, it seems to happen. 

Q. How important has this week been for wheelchair tennis as a whole?
JORDANNE WHILEY: Massive. I think it's a real historic moment for wheelchair tennis. All the slams are complete now. This, I consider, to be 'the slam.' Everyone wants to win Wimbledon. For me, it's my home. 
Congrats to Jiske who became the first lady, wheelchair person, to do it as well. And Gordon, I don't think he even dropped a set. 
Yeah, it's really going to boost our sport. We were able to showcase it here as well, which to us was really important. People here at Wimbledon, people on the Red Button, could see wheelchair tennis at its best. 

Q. Moving forward, what is your long‑term ambitions? You've won everything. What's the goal moving forward?
JORDANNE WHILEY: I don't really know. I think for both of us, obviously Rio is very important. We could potentially be opponents because we can't play together. We're both aiming for gold medals there, but just separately. 
Then I guess we'll see what the new year holds, if she'll still play with me, if she's not bored of me. Yeah, I'm not sure. 

Q. Yui, you'd like to carry on playing doubles with Jordanne?
YUI KAMIJI: If she wants to. 
JORDANNE WHILEY: Of course (smiling). 

Q. Do you feel any pressure that this is the third time for you to win in a row?
JORDANNE WHILEY: Did you feel the pressure? 
YUI KAMIJI: (Nodding head.)
JORDANNE WHILEY: I did. 
YUI KAMIJI: She told me she didn't feel pressure, but I had. Because Wimbledon, here is her home. I know it's hat trick, very important for us. I was little bit nervous. 
JORDANNE WHILEY: Yeah, I wasn't so nervous today I think because I'm very comfortable with Yui on the court now. We have a lot of experience together, winning together. I wanted to just really enjoy today, just try and play our best tennis. That was my mindset. That happened, so... I'm pleased. 

Q. Jordanne, how did you feel about seeing Andy holding the second trophy?
JORDANNE WHILEY: Yeah, amazing. I did have a feeling he would win it. I'm very, very happy for him. I think he's had an amazing year. He's playing some of his best tennis. Who knows why. Maybe it's because he's a parent now. Kind of brings out a different side of you. 
Yeah, I'm very pleased for him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT