NEW YORK RED BULLS MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 25, 2017
Daryl Shore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Audio).  
DARYL SHORE: We came up to the task.  Three big saves for us.  But everybody in front of him also battled really hard tonight.  It was a group effort, but Matt did great.  Did everything that we asked him to do, so we're really pleased.   
 Q.  (No audio)?  
DARYL SHORE: Yeah, we just told the guys in the locker room.  Not a lot of teams come in here and hold them.  So really pleased with the zero (No audio).  Our goals are going to come.  Soccer's a funny game. (No Audio) came in and apologized to the guys.   
He had a couple of great chances where he came in and apologized to the guys.  It's not on Europe.  It's not on any one guy.  It's a group effort.  Robles made a couple big saves as well.  So, our goals are going to come.  It was just more about getting back to the defensive discipline and then getting them on the break.  We were very pleased with the result tonight.   
 Q.  (No audio)?  
DARYL SHORE: Yeah, it says a lot.  We talked about character today.  We talked about everybody getting their opportunity.  A couple guys got in today.  Matt's first game.  Jose came in and did as good as he can do in a limited time.   
But it's all about opportunity for these guys.  The more games that these guys get early will get us geared up for the stretch run.  But really proud of this group.  Everybody did, fought, dug in, did everything they can to keep it to zero, and we're going to move forward.   
 Q.  This past week kind of getting your guys all on the same page?  
DARYL SHORE: Yeah, it was a difficult week early in the week.  But what we told the players is how unfortunate it is.  This is the business that we're in.  We told our players you guys are professional soccer players and you're paid to play soccer.  We're coaches and we're paid to coach.   
So once the news came out, everybody had their issues with it, but we got on the field Tuesday and had a really good, competitive day of training, and then Wednesday we got into our tactical issues with the Red Bulls and came here.  We knew it wasn't going to be pretty, but we persevered.  Really proud of our group tonight.   
 Q.  What did you think about the performance?  You said it's not normal, but a lot of guys with injuries (No audio).  
DARYL SHORE: I think it was solid.  This is not an easy place to come play, and they're not an easy team to play against.  They like to disrupt the play.  They were a little bit more direct than we thought they were going to be early on.  So we just had to deal with that, and deal with a lot of second goals and stuff like that.  But we also came in here with the mind frame of what we wanted to try to play a little more direct than we usually do as well.   
So I thought it was a little more back and forth.  They obviously had some great chances that we made saves on, both our goalkeeper and our defenders.  But Luis came up pretty big on a couple of plays for them too.  So I think 0-0 is big.   
 Q.  (No audio)?  
DARYL SHORE: Matt's big, all 6'4" of him tonight.  Matt's big, that's why we brought him in here.  We know we have one of the best goalkeepers if not the best two or three in this League.  And Matt's been champing at the bit to get into this league.  He put his time in in the lower league and he earned his chance tonight, and I think he proved it to us.   
 Q.  What did you like about Matt?  
DARYL SHORE: That he kept the ball out of the goal.   
 Q.  No, no, I don't mean today.  I don't mean today?  
DARYL SHORE: Yeah, yeah.  When I coached in Fort Lauderdale, Matt was in Minnesota and then he was in Edmonton.  So I knew Matt.  He's a solid goalkeeper, very good shot stopper, works hard, commands his box.  Although we'll talk to him a little bit.  I thought he could have come for a couple balls, but when you've got Chris Schuler and Aaron Maund in front of you, you don't have to come for a lot of balls.   
He's a really solid goalkeeper.  The thing I like about him, he reminds me of John Bush in the fact that John Bush started early in his career in the lower leagues and he's worked his way up and earned his chance.  We're happy to have him on our team.   
 Q.  How do you deal with a guy that's basically been a starter his whole career, and now he's back on for a matter of words?  
DARYL SHORE: Yeah, we told him it would prolong his career.  He's 30 years old, and he's been playing a lot of games.  So now he's going to get back and be able to sit back and watch the best goalkeeper in our league.  He's been great.  He actually relishes every training session.  He's trying to learn as much as he can from Nick, because at 30 he still thinks he can learn.  Remember, goalkeepers have a long life span.  So he's still young.   
 Q.  (No audio)?  
DARYL SHORE: No, we were hands on.  I'm the interim head coach, but Jeff was very instrumental in having his staff be part of this group.  The guys in the locker room know that I've been a head coach before.  Maybe not in Major League Soccer, but they all know that I've talked to players in hard situations and everything.   
So for us, it was just keeping things simple, being honest with the guys.  Letting them know what the game plan was coming into this game.  Our guys did everything we asked them to do this week.   
 Q.  It was your first match in Major League Soccer as a coach.  What were your emotions before?  What did you do to prepare?  
DARYL SHORE: I talked to my dad.  I talked to my mom.  I talked to my wife.  Just normal stuff.  It's a game, and like I said, I've coached before.  Obviously, this is a bigger stage.  It was actually a little bit easier for me because I coached Jesse and Chris when we were in Chicago.  So it was kind of fun to go up against those guys in my first game.   
It wasn't about me.  It's about our team.  It's about our organization.  It's about our fans and just having our team prepared to get a result on the road.   
 Q.  (No audio)?  
DARYL SHORE: I haven't spoken to anybody about the permanent job.  I was just worried about the Red Bulls, and now I'll move on to Minnesota unless they tell me to do something otherwise.   
 Q.  (No audio)?  
DARYL SHORE: I think you'd be crazy not to want the job.  This is a great organization.  We've got good people.  We've got good players.  We've got a great fan base.  Obviously, I would love the opportunity to coach this team, but, again, that's out of my control.  The front office will hire who they see fit to hire.  If they asked me to go back to my role as the goalkeeper coach and director of goalkeeping, then that's what I'll do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT