WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 20, 2005
Asjha Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Yesterday Brooke Wyckoff said that you guys had to do the little bitty things to win this game.  The first half you pretty much took the open shot away from them, forced nine turnovers.  Anything that you probably could have did just a little bit more to pull this thing out? 

ASJHA JONES:  I think tonight we missed a lot of shots that we normally make.  We had a couple good open layups.  I missed a couple layups inside here and there.  We got offensive rebounds, just didn't finish plays that we normally would finish. 

Q.  You turned out to be the best offensive option for the team.  Was that by design or was that just came from the flow of the game?

ASJHA JONES:  I think during this entire series I haven't been looking for my shot like I normally have been doing all summer.  And tonight I really wanted to come out and be aggressive.  And I found opportunities.  And fortunately for me they were going in tonight, but not enough. 

Q.  How long does it take you, if you can remember last year, to get over the defeat and losing in the Finals and that?

ASJHA JONES:  I think you don't really get over that.  That kind of fueled us throughout the season.  We played hard every game.  I can't say that there was one game we came out and we didn't play hard.  And I think a lot of that came from the disappointment last year.  And again, we got disappointed again, but, you know, it's over.  You just got to deal with it and just try to get better over the course of this break and just come back and just try to get here again. 

Q.  You guys sort of completely took them out of their offense for the first five minutes of the first half, so what did you do there that kind of changed for the rest of the game? 

ASJHA JONES:  We tried to do the same things.  I guess they made their own adjustments at halftime.  That's what halftime is for.  For people to go in the locker room and make adjustments.  We had a six-point lead going into the second half and within two minutes that was gone and they were up one point.  So all the hard work we did in the first half in the first couple minutes of the second half they kind of took that away.  From there on we were kind of fighting an uphill battle. 

Q.  Can you comment on Ticha Penicheiro and Yolanda Griffith.  Just seemed like in the second half they kind of pulled the team together.  They came out after half time and really pulled the teammates to get this victory, to get this title?

ASJHA JONES:  They have been playing a long time.  They have been playing a long time together.  Anytime that happens you're going to have good chemistry.  In the second half they got the plays they needed to make to come out on top. 

ASJHA JONES:  All right.  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT