FEDCUP FIRST ROUND: BELGIUM v USA
April 22, 2007
Zina Garrison
Vania King
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  Zina, did you ever think coming into this weekend that by the end of it all Vania would be your star?  Serena and Venus, they won two matches, but Vania is your star of the weekend, right? 
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  Actually, they're all my stars.  Venus and Serena got us off.  Vania clinched it for us.  And Lisa, I was thanking her in the locker room because I kind of gave her Vania for this week and she worked on a lot of doubles drills.  I think that really helped her a lot in her singles match today. 

 Q.  Serena, can you tell us about the knee, what happened, when you first felt it, when you kind of knew you wouldn't be playing today. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I didn't know till the last minute.  I don't really know what happened. 

 Q.  When did you start noticing it? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Probably yesterday. 

 Q.  During the match? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Probably before that. 

 Q.  How much do you think this will affect your preparation for clay season? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't think it will affect it. 

 Q.  Serena, yesterday after the match you said that you didn't feel any pain. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I said I didn't feel any pain in my groin.  Nobody asked specifically about my right knee. 

 Q.  The knee was bothering you during the match? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Sure it was, yeah. 

 Q.  Zina, can you just look ahead to the Russians, semifinal in July, what you expect from them.  Also maybe thoughts on your team. 
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  I expect naturally it's going to be a very tough match.  They have a pretty strong bench, a lot of players they can actually pick from.  I think all of us up here, we're really looking forward to playing Russia.  We were trying to get to that point. 
 You know, each and every one of the young women here have a long summer ahead going into July.  I just hope that we're all healthy to get back to the July tie. 

 Q.  So you expect the same team to play? 
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  Yeah.  I mean, I'm not going -- could be one way or the other.  You know, we know Venus, Serena, Lisa, I'm not putting any pressure on Vania, but that's always a spot you always have to kind of work with.  But I thought Lisa and Vania played extremely well doubles today. 

 Q.  Serena, the change in the lineup left you in the role of cheerleader for the first match.  What did you think of Vania's performance? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I thought she had a great performance.  I thought it was a lot of pressure.  It was a pressure match because it was a clincher.  Could have been 2-1.  She was down a lot.  But she was able to come back. 
 I thought it was, you know, a great match and well thought out. 

 Q.  Venus said she anticipates playing in July.  Do you feel the same way?  Are you planning on playing? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, we'll see.  It's a long season.  I think it's right of after Wimbledon.  I think there's a good possibility. 

 Q.  Zina, what did Vania show you today?  Has her stock risen, in your mind? 
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  Vania's stock rose yesterday when she sung the national anthem (laughter). 
 But, no, I mean, Vania, actually a good friend of mine Laurie MacNeal, she put me on radar for Vania a while ago.  I've kind of been watching her.  She was on the team in Germany.  I thought, considering like Serena said, she didn't know up until an hour or so before she wasn't going to play, and Vania was ready.  That's what it takes to be the fourth person on the team, to be ready. 

 Q.  Vania, what did Lisa help you with this week? 
 VANIA KING:  I mean, you know, being around her, she just has a lot more experience than I do.  The whole team does.  Just talking with her. 
 But as far as the tennis aspect, we've been practicing together the whole week.  Little things here and there that I would never have noticed that she tells me.  It's not just one big thing.  Doubles isn't just one simple answer. 

 Q.  Zina, we've heard different venues.  Do you have any thoughts on where you would like to play, the surface? 
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  I've heard everything you've heard.  No, we don't have any answers.  We don't exactly know where yet.  Hopefully within a week or two, we can find out.  But I've heard everything you've heard.  I don't know anything new. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT