FED CUP INTERVIEWS- USA vs. BELGIUM
July 16, 2006
Zina Garrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Zina, a tough weekend.  Let's look at the positives first.  You salvaged some pride with the doubles.  
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  Yeah, it was good.  It was very good for Jill and Vania to get out there.  They really wanted to not walk away with a zero.  It was good.  It was really unfortunate that Mashona went down.  
 But, you know, the one thing I have to say is that they hung in there, and that's the true sportsmanship of Fed Cup, is fighting to the end for your country.  

 Q.  The American team on day two was almost the walking wounded.  
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  'Walking wounded' was not even close.  Half of my staff went out with some kind of food poisoning, including me.  It's been really, really tough.  You know, I hope I never have to feel this again (laughter).  

 Q.  Explain to us how tough it has been for you overnight, having to bring Vania King in as a replacement, and then Mashona as the second replacement in the reverse singles?  
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  It's actually -- it was actually, believe it or not, pretty tough.  Jamea was extremely wiped out.  I knew I was going to have to substitute her.  And then also with Jill, I just think that she gave so much yesterday.  And Vania is young.  I wanted to get her out there and let her feel, you know, if you can play in this crowd, you can play in anything.  And why not have the opportunity to play one of the best players in the world.  

 Q.  Well, it's been a tough road for you as captain, not having any of your really big names out there.  Give us an idea of what's been going through yourself.  
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  Well, it's been tough, but it's been very rewarding.  I mean, the younger ones and actually also Jill and also Mashona, I mean, the wiser ones I call them, it's exciting.  You know, unfortunately we did have a chance.  Anything could have happened if Jill was able to eke that match out yesterday.  
 But I try to just only look at the players that are here and not the ones that are not here.  Each tie is a different tie.  You know, maybe the next tie they'll want to play.  

 Q.  What about that?  Where does this sort of leave American tennis?  
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  I've been telling my players not to really listen to you guys (laughter).  It's like anything else, I think things go in circles.  I think actually we're in a great point.  I think the fact that High Performance Jean Nation and Laurie McNeil, who brought two young ones over here, and just getting them into the atmosphere and seeing some of the big players close-up, you know, those are the kind of things you have to do.  That's what Europeans have been doing for a very long time.  

 Q.  When do you start looking to getting your players together for the next time?  When do you start talking to some of these young ones to give them a continued experience, but also to some of the big guns that were missing this weekend?  
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  I'm always trying to talk.  You know, I always try to like after tournaments give them some rest.  I don't like to bug people like every weekend.  "Oh, Zina's calling."  But I do send out emails, try to get their ears, see what they're feeling.  I knew July was going to be very tough because, you know, Venus was really fortunate enough to come last year, but I think she had a bad experience, she was just totally wiped out.  And then, unfortunately, you know, Lindsay's injured, and also Serena.  
 But, you know, this team, they've gelled together.  They have fun.  We could do without the food poisoning...  

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT