U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1995
Zina Garrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How would you describe the run you had here and are you going to be back here next
year?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I'm not answering that. I don't know. I'm just going to play.
I'm having fun now, I think that I'm playing well. I had some chances today, and just,
missed my favorite backhand volley down the line couple times, but you know, to play
somebody like, Conchita, who's been on a great run, I have to try to work harder and I
know I can compete with her.

Q. How about for you since you unretired, what's taken place?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I'm looking forward to playing my next tournament. That's as far
as I'm going right now. So...

Q. What would you think was the major difference in the match for you; was it the
tiebreaker? 

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I think if I won the tiebreak, I could have put more pressure on
her, made her just be a little more tentative on her shot and I think after she won the
tiebreaker, the way she did, I mean, I missed three backhand vollies to help her out, she
just kind of loosened up a little bit and I still played a good second set just a couple
points here and there, so.

Q. You said this is one of the first years you realized how much the fans here
appreciate your tennis, and you may or may not play here again. But as you walked off the
court tonight with the sense of the appreciation of the crowd, what did you think in your
head, given the 16 years that all passed, what did you think?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: It's unbelievable, it's better than a dream, better than
anything you could actually, you know, imagine, and I don't know why it has taken me so
long to realize people enjoy my tennis, but at least I have. And it will be really fun,
and really excited to go on playing my next tournament and, you know, if I'm back here
next year I think this will help me even more.

Q. Zina, had you started to dream? Couple 

years ago, you had this as a dream Open, had you started to dream at all?
ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Yeah, every year.

Q. Had you started in light of everything that happened this tournament had you started
to dream, maybe this could be your Open and you could go through it?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I felt really good about it. I mean, think if I probably won the
first set I probably would have felt better. I know I was playing really well, but, the
depth of women's tennis here is so strong, every point counts, you can't give any free
points away, but I felt good going into the match.

Q. That's not what I meant. I meant in the last couple of days after you had, you know,
beaten Lindsay, when you were in your hotel room and --

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: No, I wasn't. I guess it's just my age, I don't know.

Q. Zina, what do you think of Conchita's chance in the tournament; do you think Seles,
Graf are too strong for her or do you think she has a good shot? 

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I'd be surprised only because I think that Monica and Steffi are
playing extremely well right now and I think, you know, Conchita is known to come up with
some stuff you don't really expect her, she's going to be basically playing baseliners so,
you know, she can hold her own. I think when someone puts pressure on her she's a little
more tentative, but my two picks are Steffi and Monica.

Q. Are you surprised your old doubles partner was able to upset Sanchez?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Unbelievable. I couldn't stop watching the match, but I was
excited for Mary Joe. She played extremely well and all she's been going through for the
last couple years, she's a very nice person and I'm happy it's been starting really well
for her and she's healthy.

Q. Do you see a good future for her? Do you see she could possibly upset Graf if she
gets that far?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Mary Joe can do whatever she wants if she's healthy to beat any
player on a given day. With the grace of God, if she's healthy, she has a good chance. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT