U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Zina Garrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Zina, how much did Lindsay carry-over; did you come in more confident than usual
or...

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: No, I mean, that is just going to give me confidence beating a
player in the top 10, so, but I was really, you know, I really wanted to win this match
because sometimes you beat a top player; you come; you don't play as well, so I really
tried to really focus. I played well in the first set, second set gave up an opportunity
in the first game, and, you know, I gutsed it out at the end.

Q. Zina after your last match, you said it is a little early to talk about this
tournament being your tournament like Connors and Connors having the Grand Slams. As you
gain in this tournament, is it becoming your tournament?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I mean, I would sure Love it to be. But I am just taking one
match at a time. I am enjoying the moment. I mean, it has been great, the people are
really been behind me. And, you know, I am just enjoying it while I am out there. I am
having a great time. It is really nice to like feel the crowd really behind you, and so I
guess they kind of think it is my tournament as well, so --

Q. How much do you think what you are doing is because of emotion?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I don't understand.

Q. Do you think -- if you had not gone through the whole pondering retirement --

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I probably would just be the average person.

Q. Is it more of an emotional tournament for you?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I think it was put into peoples' mind there so I think they
wanted to come out and watch me play, but I have been really fortunate enough when I have
come to New York, people have always stuck behind me and enjoyed my tennis, so I think,
you know, it is a little bit of both, but I think overall they have always enjoyed what I
have done.

Q. Can you describe the challenge, the potential challenge in facing Conchita Martina?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Well, I have beaten Conchita once so I believe that I can beat
her again. I have the game to. I mean, she has been playing well, but I think right now I
am playing well. I will be looking forward to playing her if I play her. You never know.

Q. How proud are you of Chanda Rubin and how would you describe her development as a
player?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I am really excited for Chanda. I think she is playing great. I
told her a couple of months ago, I mean, I believe she can be in the top 10. She is a
great player. She has all that it takes. It is just a matter of working for it. And I
think her coach has done a good job with her. I think she is coming into her own.

Q. She plays Steffi next match. What type of match do you expect her to give Steffi and
what does it hinge on?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I mean, she is going to play her. By no means, I don't think
anyone can take that match like it is a joke or something. Because of the fact that Chanda
has been beating some top players; she is getting confidence; she is believing that she
should be on the court, whoever it is. She hits such a big ball. Her forehand is a weapon
and to be a great player you have to have a weapon. She does have the shots to be a great
player. 

Q. Ever since you announced you were not retired, every player talks about how glad
they are about you continuing to play...

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Yeah, I was like --

Q. That is what I was going to ask you. Are you getting it from them?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Yeah, I mean, so many of them come up to me and go, oh, really
glad you are going to stay around for a while. Even people, I mean, you know, it is just
like my brother said to me when I called him and told him that I wasn't retiring, "I
knew it was a matter of time," so it is like, I don't know, people -- I guess until
you do it, you know, they don't really believe you, but I have been really shocked with
the players because they have been like all saying, you know, they are really happy that I
am not.

Q. Zina, has Angel Lopez had much of an influence on this drive you are in?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Angel keeps me calm. He is like really mellow and I am like, you
know, kind of really emotional, but he is just basically been telling me to just stay in
my own, just taking one match at a time, just playing it and enjoying it.

Q. You talked about Billy Jean King being the angel. Aside from Angel and Billie Jean,
who are the other angels who have been angels in your career?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Everyone that I have gone through touched my career; all of the
coaches that I have had, they are one part within me. I think myself, just getting older
and wiser, I mean, has had a lot to do with it. Just me maturing and wanting to play, so,
I think that is kind of where I am now.

Q. Did Arthur help much early on in your career?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Yeah, I mean, basically, being the role model being a black
American and playing tennis, naturally is a natural role model, but he always basically
was the one that really inspired me to get the backspin backhands when I used to hit
topspin all the time, but there were things that I did that he would just kind of go by
and help me.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT