U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Zina Garrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Were you surprised how well you played?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Not overly. I mean, I knew I can play like that. I thought the
match I won the day before yesterday I mean, three sets I had lost, like six or seven,
three sets this year, so I think that helped; gave me a lot of confidence just winning the
three-set match.

Q. Having said you were going to retire and then changing your mind, has that taken
some pressure off? You were described as playing very free and loose today; seemed to be
fresh and free.

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Well, I think that the biggest thing I did emotionally, I was
just kind of wavering within myself about if I really wanted to give it up, and, you know,
I think reality hit when people started calling and wanted to come down and do interviews
in Houston before the Open, and I started getting very, very depressed because, you know,
it is something I have been doing since I was ten and I thought I could just give it up,
and walk away from it, and I still love the game. I mean, so I just kind of want to play
some more, and just kind of fade away.

Q. Now that you made this decision and you can go out and have a day like this and play
this beautifully in the stadium, does a day like this seem even more valuable; I mean, you
know --

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I think the older you get, every win is just very important and
I think, you know, I had played so bad in the last two, three years on that court that I
just wanted to play well on this court, and when I saw that I had a chance to play Lindsay
I felt that I had a good chance. I knew my game could be the game that would give her
trouble, because I don't hit a lot of pace. I can move well. And keep her moving and I did
exactly what I wanted to do today.

Q. You had had good days before you had this, I mean, you have had some special days
here.

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: In the last couple of years on that court I have not played at
all, not even showed up.

Q. Zina, the other night you were describing the feeling of watching the fans hanging
over the fences and screaming and going nuts for you. Can you compare the sensation of the
other night with the big stadium and playing today?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: It was just so intimate. When I turned around in the third set
and saw people hanging from the fence, I was like, "wow, what is happening
here." They were yelling, screaming; just emotional, every time I missed a shot I
thought I would get a little down on myself; they would never let me get down. When I
walked off the court they were grabbing me telling me they love me. It was beautiful. It
was unbelievable. That was -- it sounds weird -- actually the first time that I kind of
really understood what I have meant to tennis and me, being me, never think I did
anything, but first time I realized that people enjoyed my tennis and what I have done on
the tennis circuit.

Q. Could you just finish the thought about today, the difference when you went out
there?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: The court is so much bigger, so -- and I think still an 11
o'clock match; people still barely awake. It is just like they are out there. But Lindsay
is a nice person too, so I think it kind of goes both ways. I mean, she is -- I think
eventually she will do a lot of things for tennis, so you have two people, I think America
really cares for.

Q. Zina, when you come along and you are a talented young player, it is all ahead of
you; whatever your ambitions are, No. 1, do this, do that; do you scale them down now as
time -- I mean, what ambitions do you have from now until you finally actually do stop?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I'd still like to overcome my backhand, sounds strange, but it
is the truth. It is funny because little things start to matter to you more than like the
big things; just improving certain parts of your game and I used to think sometimes when I
hear Chris and Martina talk about things that they still want to improve and these are two
unbelievable tennis players, the older you get, still understand the game keeps growing
and you have to grow with it, so I think my goals are, you know, to keep trying to get a
little bit more powerful and do a little bit more things with the ball, so, sounds weird,
but...

Q. What depressed you about giving it up? What all of a sudden hit you that you were
giving up? What were you going to miss?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Competition. I mean, I am such a competitive person on and off
the court, the competition, I love being in the moment. I love, you know, when you reach
down and get a shot at one- - the feeling that you get, it is kind of hard for an athlete
-- I also wondered why, you know, you see Magic Johnson, people like that, keep coming
back and, you know, you might have a lot of things to do in your life, but it is still a
part of you that you really love.

Q. You had a conversation with Billie Jean about this?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I had a lot of conversations with her.

Q. What sent you to Billie Jean and what did she tell you?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: She -- sometimes I think she is like this little angel that
hangs over people or something. Because I had been telling her that I am just confused. I
am confused and you know, Billie goes, oh, well, you know, just whatever you believe,
believe; do what you want to do; not what other people want you to do. And I talked to her
a little bit at Team Tennis and I said Billie, "look I really don't know if I want to
retire. It is driving me crazy." One day I was extremely depressed, I mean, like just
been crying and crying and crying. Then the phone rings and it is Billie. She is like,
Zina, "how are you doing." I said, "oh, I am fine" - holding back. She
keeps asking me four, five times. Finally, I broke down. I broke down - "I don't know
what I am going to do with my life I still want to play." She kept calling me; kept
talking to me. She said "Zina, you have to make decision. You can't go with what
other people want you to do. You can't worry about the media. You can't worry about your
husband, your family, you have to make that decision." She just kept talking to me
and I made the decision for myself, so...

Q. I know it has been six years, but when you were on stadium, do thoughts of that
match with Chris still go through your head?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Basically most of the time I think about it when people bring it
up, other than that, when you see it and in a film or somewhere like that, but other than
that, it is something that will always be there; something I will always remember and
cherish.

Q. Was your plan to retire here or just this was going to be your last Open and you
were going to play the rest of year? 

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I was going to play the rest of year.

Q. When you were talking before about retirement a year ago, you had specific things
you were looking forward to; starting a family and your involvement in charity projects.
What happens to those projects; do they --

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I am just going to kind of go with the flow. I mean, I am still
going -- one thing I realize also is that I wasn't preparing myself to do those things
because I was so depressed. I kind of kept going, playing tennis, but I wasn't like doing
the steps that it takes, but I am going to start working on it little by little - things
to kind of prepare myself to do things instead of just up one day and just "that is
it" and try to jump into something else. I think you -- it's step by step, just like
I play tennis when I practice, step by step.

Q. The other day -- you said the other day when the fans were so supportive towards
you, you finally realized what you meant to tennis. Can you put in words what you think
you have meant to the game of tennis?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Caring. I mean, a person that probably -- one of many few people
that actually care about other people and not just about themselves. I am not saying all
tennis players are selfish, but it is a selfish sport. We have to be selfish to a point,
but I think certain people have touched other peoples' lives and are willing to give other
people the opportunity to play this game. To know that they are human - if that makes
sense.

Q. Can you see this tournament as you progress develop into your tournament, like Jimmy
Connors a few years ago?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: A major difference there.

Q. What is that?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Yeah, all the Grand Slams he has won. It is different. I don't
look that far. I am going -- one thing I have learned about age, you have really have to
enjoy the moment, and that is what I am going to do here. You know, I don't even know who
the next match that I have to play, but my singles and my doubles, I am going to really go
out there and enjoy it. If I play like I did today I am definitely going to have to be
dealt with.

Q. It is Nicole Arendt?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: That is fine.

Q. Giving back, with the McGregor program, has that been revived?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Definitely. Actually now it is the home for Zina Garrison Tennis
Academy. I have over 3,000 kids since '91. We have three semesters. So some of my kids
recently won tournaments. I was real excited about that. We had about 500 kids couple of
weeks ago that celebrated the summer, celebration where they come out and play tennis I
play tennis with them. It is real exciting for me to finally see them. They actually are
hitting the ball, so it is really good.

Q. John Wilkinson is involved with it?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Yes.

Q. Who do you think the next top African American player will be?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I don't like to classify that situation. I think that Venus is
definitely a candidate, but I think you are really, -- really people are going to have to
start to watch Chanda because she is really starting to come into her own.

Q. Given the good reception you have with the Tampax sponsorship here, do you think it
was a mistake for the WTA to turn them down as title sponsor?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I can't answer for the WTA. For me, it was just a perfect fit
because they are really involved with young girls, teenage adolescent girls, trying to get
them off the street and it fit; it was really perfect for me.

Q. Any further questions?

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Thank you.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT