FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 28, 1995
Zina Garrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Zina, you appeared to try to become more aggressive in the second set and it seemed to work, what happened in the third set?
 
ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: No, I served well in the second set, third set and I hardly got any first serves in, and my forehand went in the last two games or basically in the middle of the second and beginning of the third set and I was getting more offensive in my forehand and being able to come in and just a couple of balls here and there.  And I think I just wanted to win just a little bit too much or just get too tentative. 
 

Q.  The first three games you had a lot of errors, you had a hard time finding your groove there at the beginning of the match.
 
ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Yeah, I didn't have a groove.  It started all off in the beginning when I got here 'cause I got here at 8:30 and then they said I couldn't get on the center because it wasn't ready, and I was trying to find a practice court because I was a little bit uptight the whole time, but that's it. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the 9th game or the third set, what was going through your mind?
 
ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: I got frustrated.  It was back and forth and, you know, she was just shooting the ball all over, and I tried to get a little aggressive on the forehand, it was the right idea but poor execution, and you have to go ahead and hit those high balls and take your chances.  I just put both of them in the net. 
 

Q.  You talked yesterday about this maybe being the end, but finally coming to an end out there what was your first reaction; is there anything?
 
ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: That particular moment, I don't know.  I just basically was thinking about the way that I, you know, played and just being very tentative.  That's about it. 
 

Q.  Was the intent in the second set were you trying to be more aggressive; you seemed to mix it up a little better too?
 
ZINA GARRISON JACKSON: Yeah, uhmm -- you know, -- yeah, I tried to get a little -- because in the beginning I was kind of playing her game, she just kind of gets everything back, no pace or anything and the only chance that I had was to be more aggressive and I started getting a lot better.  I was able to get to the net and in the third set I got tentative at the wrong time. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT