U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1994
Zina Garrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You had some problem with getting into the game? 

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON:  I really think she played really well from the beginning, I mean, she played well and I mean, I kept trying, put pressure on her, had a little trouble with my slice, I think that she was hitting the ball so deep to my backhand, hard sometimes to lay into, but I thought she played really well.  She served a high percentage of first serves, so I really wasn't able to attack her second serve.  She hit the ball deep, so... 


Q.  You have had some big results out there on that court through your career; does that sort of -- did that sort of boost your confidence or anything like that coming in here or were you -- do you not even think about that? 

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON:  Well, I mean, I have played some good tennis at the U.S. Open, period.  I have had some very tough matches that I have come out of.  And I like playing here.  I think today, I mean, it was just a day I actually just got beat.  I mean, so I am not going to take anything away from myself.  I have played some good tennis here.  Today was her day. 


Q.  Have you noticed any uneveness on that court that would cause the ball to bounce irregularly? 

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON:  Actually, I couldn't have noticed anything today.  I was just trying to get the ball back, but I think it is an at that time bit slower than I normally remember it to be, but I mean, it is still a good court and, you know, today was so windy -- it was a bit windy, so irregular balls caused from the wind. 


Q.  I didn't mean the pace of the courts, whether or not there are little valleys in the court from the settling of the surface? 

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON:  No, I didn't -- I definitely noticed it on other courts, though. 


Q.  Do you get any sense that she was any more motivate the after what happened at the French or Wimbledon? 

ZINA GARRISON JACKSON:  Yes, definitely.  I could tell from the beginning when she stepped out there.  She knew that -- I mean, I'm a dangerous player so she is going to have to play me and she went after me and she stayed on me from the beginning 'til the end, so, I mean, of course, a person like herself losing in those Grand Slam tournaments is going to make her want this even more, so... 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT