VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 16, 1993
Zina Garrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Is this a way to spend your 30th birthday? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  I know, I mean, I never won on my birthday.  I kind of wish I played Monday or Wednesday, but, you know, I thought I played well, had some opportunities, I didn't take advantage of them, you know, but I've been playing really well to get here and I played so many tournaments to get here and I was so focused because, about a month ago, I was just barely out of this tournament, so...  
 

Q.  Was it just a case of missed opportunities on both sides through the whole match? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  Yes, definitely missed opportunities. I had chance to break, I was -- I would just miss by a couple of inches.  I kept missing my forehand return by inches every time and, you know, just kind of caught up with me, and then she would have the opportunity, she would miss.  I mean, it was like a back and forth match.  
 

Q.  How about the bad calls out there against you? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  I don't think-- I didn't get one call-- I was really upset more than anything on a let cord because the lady has her hand on the net, she can feel it before he can hear it and I was like--  
 

Q.  What happened on that; he called it by himself? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  Yeah, he called it.  He said that he heard it and someone else, one of the other linesmen heard it but it can be strings, it can be anything, I mean, that's like-- that's too close for him to really try to call especially when you have a net cord judge.  
 

Q.  Then you thought there was a doublefault there? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  I thought?  I knew it was a doublefault.  I just didn't get the breaks, I mean, that's the way the match goes sometimes.  
 

Q.  Is there any specific reason that you could give for your lack of success in this tournament? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  Yeah, I think, I just-- I played so hard to get here especially I know this year-- I played so well, I think I peaked too soon, because, you know, couple weeks ago I was knifing my forehand and I started to miss it last week and it cost me some points here off the return of serve, I think I was so focused into getting here you know, I still played well, but I think there I just peaked a little too soon.  
 

Q.  The last two losses have come to Sanchez Vicario? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  Yeah.  
 

Q.  Were you possibly thinking about matching up with her in the next round? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  No.  Each tournament is too tough to be thinking about the next person.  So, even Arantxa, she should be thinking about Helena because Helena may be beating her.  
 

Q.  Zina, you're 30? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  Very much so.  
 

Q.  Happy birthday. 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  Thank you.  
 

Q.  Your game, you have an aggressive style; does it take a large toll on your body, your legs and body? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  Yes.  
 

Q.  Any idea when you might start on the homeless shelter project? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  Yes, I'm going to play a couple more years definitely and then I'm just going-- I would like to have a family, so, I've thought about it. Me and my husband we've talked about it, I've talked about it with my coach and I'm going to give the next couple of years a really good shot and take it from there.  
 

Q.  Is Willard tired of following you around? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  I think he gets scared.  Willard is so relaxed you'd never know but next year he will, he'll travel a little bit less, but, that's just to get ready for when I do finish.  
 

Q. -- you play so similarly; what's it going to take for either one of you to get into the semis and finals more consistently? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  Not miss the vollies when they're there.  I think it's much more strenuous to play this kind of game.  You constantly have to -- you move constantly, have to think and react and you're going to play great sometimes and sometimes you're not, that's what is so remarkable about Martina, that she's still playing this level of a game.  And for me, I need more strength, my serves are just way too weak.  I can see two weeks in a row very strong and the third week it's like my arm is very weak, so, when I think 94 a serve and volley player, you have to stay mentally tough definitely, all the time.  
 

Q.  Would you ever give consideration to having a baby and travelling on the tour? 
 
ZINA GARRISON-JACKSON:  Oh, no, it's too much trouble.  I mean, I look at Liz Smylie and take my hat off to her and I don't know how she can even go out there and play and even though Laura is a great kid, but for me it's hard, especially, I just couldn't see myself doing it because I hear the baby cry I think I would be just out of here.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT