NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Trae Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How has Chris Paul helped you?
TRAE YOUNG: Yeah, CP has been a big role model for me. Going to his camps when I was a kid, I learned a lot. He's been a big mentor, someone I could really ask a lot of questions to, text him if I ever need anything, call him. He's been a big help for me.
Q. On getting an All-Star Game in Oklahoma City:
TRAE YOUNG: Yeah, it would be super fun to get an All-Star Game out in OKC. Being able to go back home and play in front of them would be fun. I think they've got to get maybe one or two more hotels to be able to get it going, but it would be fun for sure.
Q. What do you think about criticism you've received despite putting up those numbers?
TRAE YOUNG: Yeah, that's going to come. Regardless of how well I'm doing, I mean, you talk about a lot of critics, I still had a lot of votes from a lot of fans around here to get into this game. So I know there's going to be a lot of people that have doubt, or like you say, there's a lot of critics out here, but I still have a lot of people pulling for me and have a lot of fans. So that's something that I don't take for granted.
Q. What is this experience like?
TRAE YOUNG: For me, I just love being a kid. I remember -- I'm 21 years old. I'm still basically a kid. So just enjoy this time because, I mean, time goes by fast. So just continue to enjoy being a kid, have fun and just enjoy it.
Q. What are your thoughts about a play-in tournament for the last two playoff spots?
TRAE YOUNG: I mean, I think it would be good. I think it would be fun having a play-in game for the final two spots would be dope. I don't know if it will happen, though, but we'll see.
Q. What about a four-point line?
TRAE YOUNG: Having a four-point line would be nice. It would help me and help our team. Obviously, I shoot a lot of deep threes, so that would just be a regular shot for me, but there's a lot of guys that would benefit -- Dame, Steph. There's a lot of guys that would benefit from that too. So it would be pretty cool.
Q. What's your plan for the 3-Point Contest?
TRAE YOUNG: Just to knock down shots, try to get in a rhythm early. Luckily, I got to shoot in here last night, so got a little bit of a feel how the rims are and how the gym's going to be. Really just want to get out there and hopefully get off to a good start.
Q. You got a chance to watch Luka make the half-court shot.
TRAE YOUNG: Oh, it was fun. I told Luka, when he got the rebound, he looked like he was about to pass it up, pass it up the floor, and I told him he'd better shoot. I said, don't pass it. You'd better shoot this half-court shot, and I was happy he hit it. It was crazy when it went in. So it was funny.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT