CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2007
Nancy Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You haven't had any second thoughts about it, think maybe you'll give it one more year?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  You know, I'm just really pleased to have a good solid round today because it means so much to me to play well, and I've been out here for a long time and it's just nice to finish on a good note.  Yes, it makes me twitch and everything, but it's somebody else's turn, too.  I don't regret anything, I just enjoyed the day today and it was a beautiful golf course, lovely Stanley Thompson design, and I really enjoyed the walk today again, so it was good.   
  
  Q.  A good walk?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  Yeah, it was not a problem at all, it was just all good things.   
  
  Q.  Were you getting emotional earlier on?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  I was, I was emotional earlier to start the day.  I could have really cried a few times actually.  I get all welled up thinking about it because it means so much to me, but I thought if I'm going to play well today I have to sort of get those emotions in check, and I just tried to block it out of my mind and just go do what I needed to do, and it was all good.   
  
  Q.  How you've got to make a tough call.  Would it have been easier to come in today and have a really tough round and it's raining on you and to walk off and throw your clubs and say I'm done?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  Oh, dear.  Well, my dad told me one time that I could walk away at any time and hold my head high because I've done something that I love to do, it's my passion in life, and regardless of whether the day is nice, ugly, raining, sunshine, heat, whatever, I can always be proud because I've enjoyed my walk.  I've been able to do something I love to do, and that's not easily done in this day and age.  For me I feel very fortunate.   
  
  Q.  What were the highlights of your career?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  My highlights of my career?  I finished second twice is all I can say.  I sort of did the bridesmaid thing.  A couple of good seconds, and I won the CPGA a few times.  Just playing out here on a regular basis for as many years as I have, I can't say that that's such a bad thing.  Those are all highlights.   
  
  Q.  We were hearing some shouts of encouragement there on 18.  Were you getting that on some of the earlier holes, as well?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  Yeah, it's been good all week long.  It's been lots of people here supporting.  There were a lot of Canadians here that are trying to make their games better, and this is such a great playground for everyone to do that.  I was just one of the fortunate ones that got into the weekend, so that got the cheering crowd.  Lots of Saskatchewanites and lots of Albertans and everybody across Canada, very pleased.   
  
  Q.  How do you go from here and say, okay, how do I make this decision now?  What goes through your mind?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  Well, I've been sort of winding it down all year.  I haven't really play, eh?  Like I said, I've become a senior this year at 45, and I'm hoping to go spread some cheer on another Tour, The Legends, and see if I can't make some people smile out there and enjoy some golf and hit some shots out there and have another crack at it over on that side of things.  We'll see how it goes.  I think it's growing.   
  
  Q.  You said you were looking to do some motivational speaking now?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  Yeah, and I'll continue to do my charity down in Swift Current and keep raising money for the kids and junior girls' golf in Saskatchewan.  I'll keeping rah-rahing, raise my flag high, very patriotic, and just keep on doing what I'm doing.   
  
  Q.  Where were your seconds?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  My seconds were in Boston and Nashville.  I led in 1997.  I lost in a playoff in Nashville and should have won that one.  I led wire-to-wire in both places -- well, actually had the lead going down the last hole in Nashville.  If you can believe it I actually hit it too solid.  That's sort of shocking, isn't it?  Anyway, hit it over the green and I didn't get it up-and-down and I let everybody else in, and then I lost on the extra hole of play -- two extra holes.   
  
  Q.  Can we go back to the question off the top?  Is it a done deal, you're hanging them up?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  No, it's not a done deal exactly, but it's pretty much a done deal.  I need to move along and do some other things.  That motivational speaking has a good sound to it, doesn't it?   
  
  Q.  It's going to be pretty tough for the RCGA to ignore offering you an invitation next year.   
 NANCY HARVEY:  Well, if they offered me an invitation I certainly would consider that for sure because I'm up here to play, but I don't want to take a spot from some other people that are up and coming and working on their games and do a one-off thing.  That's a consideration, as well, and I don't want to be greedy about it or whatever.  I'd rather be considerate.   
  
  Q.  Did the person that beat you in the playoff go on to an illustrious career?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  Well, it was Terry-Jo Myers, and I think she won a couple more times, and the other one was Lisa Lettenheim (phon.), and she beat me with her putter.  She is such a great, great putter.  You know, what can you do?  I had a few too many on that Sunday (laughing).  I enjoyed it, though.   
  
  Q.  When was your last round in the 60s?   
 NANCY HARVEY:  I haven't played all year, so let's see, last year sometime, I guess, competitively.  I just haven't played.   
  
  Q.  I'm going to switch gears for just a second.  I'm curious, when you played junior golf you had wooden club heads and steel shafts, and I'm curious about your opinion about the evolution of technology and what you see on Tour.   
 NANCY HARVEY:  Well, that's a very loaded question right there.  However, I will make the comment that I think it's the ball that's the big change.  I was one of the first players to play on the Tour because I was a Maxfli rep, and I played the solid ball, and then everybody else was still playing balata.  Me and Liselotte Neumann, in fact.  It was called the Maxfli SX, and everything is that way now.   
 It just makes so much more sense.  They can control the cover and everything.  But they also have it coming off the club head quite fast.  Nicklaus had it right.  He said everyone should play the same speed coming off the club and then make it more of a level playing field that way.  I think that's what's changed, and I think if they want to do anything to the game for the professionals only, then cut the speed back if they're going to make some of these courses archaic because they're outdating them.  The girls and everybody, even me, I'm hitting it so much further than I used to.   
  
  Q.  You could probably go back to Elmwood --   
 NANCY HARVEY:  It just is, I played there a month ago, and I thought, oh, wow, it's different.  So the game has changed because of the technology, but then you also have to couple that with everybody's workout routine and how they're changing -- the whole face is changing.  They're younger, stronger, taller, bigger, and they're really taking good care of themselves.  It's all good credit to the game and credit to the girls that are playing.  Competition is just going to breed success, and it's good to see the women's game coming along nicely.  It's all good.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT