CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2007
Nancy Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How was your day? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Just very pleased with how I finished.  It's nice to be under par, and 1-under is not all bad around this track.  It's a good golf course and in great shape.  We're just pleased to be here. 

 Q.  At one point you were 3-under? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Yeah, it would have been nice to get that in, eh?  Well, I really haven't been playing much.  I'm sort of in the twilight of my career after 19 years.  I'm just tickled pink to get under par in a major tournament like this, so very pleased. 

 Q.  14 I think it was, you birdied that one? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Let's see.  The longest hole, yes.  I birdied that one?  Oh, no, 14, that's the par 5.  I bogeyed that one. 

 Q.  It was birdie, bogey, birdie, bogey. 
 NANCY HARVEY:  I know, I had a little bit of a schizophrenic back nine there, lots of birdies and a couple of bogeys.  I just took the wrong club out of the rough over there, and I had a bad lie over there, and I thought it was going to sort of jump out of there and it didn't.  Then I sort of got behind that tree.  I had a good layup and missed the putt.  I hit a great shot there and missed that short one there, too.  It just happens sometimes. 

 Q.  The rain last night, did that have any impact on the course? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  No, I don't think so.  It's still playing about the same, greens were perfect this morning, perfect going out, second group out, and I really enjoyed the round, and the walk was fantastic. 

 Q.  Must be nice, given you were right on the bubble yesterday? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Oh, gosh, I sweated it out yesterday watching all the numbers and all the girls.  I finished early in the day, so it was sort of like a tough afternoon to watch all the scores and finally get in sort of at the last minute even.  So pleased to get in and enjoy the game today. 

 Q.  McKay I think it is, she's 6-under, I think. 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Is she? 

 Q.  Are you surprised? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Well, I play with Mhairi McKay the first two days.  She's from Scotland, and she's been playing very well lately.  She really rolls the ball well, has an extremely good short game.  That doesn't surprise me a bit.  So good on her. 

 Q.  We've seen an unusual variation, a number of people over par, like Lorie Kane kind of wigged out, but then you're seeing on the other side, Karrie Webb? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Right, well, the golf course is in such good shape, and if you get it going and get pin hunting and get the roll on it -- the greens are a little tricky in spots.  Sometimes they look like they break more than they do, and other times they don't look like they break at all and then they squeeze off on the side.  I got fooled a couple of times.  I don't want to say that's unusual, but I don't like to miss greens too often. 
 I would just say the greens are rolling perfect right now. 

 Q.  Your front nine, how many birdies on the front nine? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  I think just two, two on the front and three on the back. 

 Q.  You're in the twilight of your career.  Have you figured out what else you'd like to do? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Well, I can always teach golf.  I've got that in my brain.  I might do a little public speaking at some point, just enjoy my next couple years and see what life brings me, maybe motivational speaking and tell a few stories and things like that. 

 Q.  Is that going to tie in with some of the charity work? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Right, I've got the new charity that I founded two years ago, and we do it in Swift Current, in my hometown, teamed up in Marc Habscheid from the NHL, and we're raising money for junior girls' golf in Saskatchewan as well as minor sports in Swift Current and giving kids a chance to get to school and all the credits will transfer.  They go to Cypress College and then they're going to transfer out to Regina or Saskatoon or whatever, so we're really pleased to do that.  The last two years we sold it out and it's been really successful, and we're really pleased. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT