CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2007
Nancy Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about the course. 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Position on the greens, like where you're leaving your ball sort of deal, the quadrants, they've got them sitting on some shelves.  There are some really tricky pin placements out there.  That one on 18 -- 9 right there, that's tricky.  It's sort of sitting on a little bit of a shelf and on the downslope.  They got very creative when they made that one (laughing), but I'm really pleased to get it in the house and have a chance to play on the weekend.  I'm hoping it'll work. 

 Q.  How big a deal would it be to get -- 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Huge for me, big.  I just haven't been playing, like I said, so for me to get a chance to play on the weekend and just keep rah-rah-rahing for Canada, we're really happy.  We want all the Canadians to make it. 

 Q.  You said you're winding it down a little bit.  When you look to the future of Canadian women's golf, what do you see there? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Lots of great things.  I started a charity back home in my hometown Swift Current, so I teamed up with Marc Habscheid who used to play NHL, so he and I have done it two years in a row, we're raising money there locally to try and get some kids to school, do some nice $3,000 and $4,000 and $5,000 bursaries. 
 And also I've been donating some money to the Saskatchewan Junior Girls' Golf program.  I was able to spend an afternoon with them this year, just like about three or four weeks ago.  So I was able to spend some time with about seven girls, really, really enjoyed it, and they were all very open to everything I said to them and really worked hard on the short game.  I'm going to do that every year and plan on really putting my foot in the door there in Saskatchewan and see if I can't raise some more wannabes. 

 Q.  So 19 years of being a professional athlete.  What have you seen in terms of changes? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Oh, huge. 

 Q.  From where it was when you began and where it is now? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Great question.  Well, it's changed dramatically as you can imagine.  I think the girls are just stronger, they're obviously longer off the tee, they're more precise, they're working out, they're working on their nutrition, flexibility, everything that sports psychologists -- spiritual, brings in the mind, body, everything. 
 To me when I first got out here you could shoot like a pair of 75s or 76s and get in on the weekend, and that's no longer the case.  Especially on Saturday or Sunday, if you shoot above par you're down the road.  Like you're down to the back of the pack, you know what I mean? 
 So they're very competitive, and competition breeds superior play, and it's just awesome to watch all the young girls coming up, and they're fearless.  They're just ready to really rock and roll and win right off the bat. 

 Q.  How about just the perception of the Tour? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Just great, isn't it?  They're really good-looking girls, very athletic, personable, and I just think it's a really great time for the LPGA. 

 Q.  Is Canadian golf keeping up with it? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  I think so, I do.  I think Alena Sharp obviously is one of our best players right now, A.J. has still got a lot of go in her, and there's a lot of good girls that are sneaking up just in the back corners here waiting to make their presence known. 

 Q.  How important is it then for the Canadians to make the cut in event like this? 
 NANCY HARVEY:  Big, big, because you're playing against the best field in the world as we know it.  Like, I mean, all the girls that play on the LPGA Tour, we were talking about it, it's such a world Tour.  I played with Mhairi McKay and Karine Icher, we've got Scotland and France covered, and every group seems to have like international flavor. 
 So you're playing against everybody's best coming to the one platform, and this is where all the money is, this is where it's a big business today, and it's a huge deal for Canadians to get in here, and I get like a little goosepimple down my arm there because this is why the CN series does such a good job of bringing the girls in here, giving them some experience, giving them a tour to play on to get here, and I just think it's just a fabulous way to grow your young, you know?  It's really good. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT