SPRINT TITLEHOLDERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 1997
Nancy Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NANCY HARVEY:  No. 10, ten feet, made it.  I hit a 9-iron.  9-iron, ten feet made it?  11:  I hit a 7-iron twelve feet and I missed it on the bottom.  12:  I hit a poor 8-iron and hit it in the right bunker.  Got it up-and-down.  13:  I hit a 9-iron in.  Hit 30 feet in.  Made an unbelievable roll on it; knocked it in.  14:  I hit a 5-iron good.  Hit it four feet and made it.  15:  Hit a 4-iron okay, nothing great.  Long putt, five, seven feet and I 2-putted.  Real good 2-putt.  16:  I hit a 6-iron, pin-high right, 28 feet and just 2-putted.  17:  I hit 3-iron good, 13 feet and missed it on the bottom.  18:  I had it just about 6 yards off the green, and I chipped it up there and made it from three feet.  No. 1:  I had it just on the right side of the green. I hit a 2-iron in there and I got it up and down.  No. 2 played really long.  I gripped a 3-wood.  Didn't hit it hard enough, and I should have hit a 2-iron probably, but had 60 feet and had a good 2-putt there.  No. 3:  I hit 3-iron good, 15 feet, and I miss that one on the bottom.  This is my worst drive of the day.  Hit it in the left bunker off the tee, and I hit kind -- I had a funky lie and I hit a 5-iron just short of the green, and I hit my chip too long.  I didn't get it up-and-down.  Putt bounced all the way down.  But on the next hole I hit from 42 yards.  I hit a little 60 wedge in there about three feet and I made that.  I hit a grip 5 into 5 - or into 6, I mean.  Grip 5 into 6, 24 feet.  Missed it on the bottom lip.  Hit grip 5 into 7, and 15 feet, and missed it on the bottom lip.  And on 8, I hit a 6-iron, 16 feet, and missed it above it.  And then on 9, I had a bad lie in the rough.  Then I had a questionable lie for my chip, but I got it up-and-down. Made about probably a 10-footer for my par on 9.  So that is where maybe you thought I made birdie, but I had to chip it from the front of the green.  How is everybody doing?  (Laughter) 
 

Q.  How are you doing?
 
NANCY HARVEY:  No complaints.  I am feeling pretty  good.  Always enjoy coming in with these guys in here.  Means good things. 
 

Q.  Was it wet out there still a little bit this morning?
 
NANCY HARVEY:  Not too bad.  I played my practice round on Tuesday morning, quite wet.  Very heavy everywhere. And, the wind has dried it out considerably.  It has got some spots that are a little - still a little damp, but it is not bad at all. 
 

Q.  Have any shots that you had bounce onto the green short of the green, bounce --
 
NANCY HARVEY:  That is not my game.  I don't play that game.  I don't -- no.  The answer is no.  I like to fly it all the way there. 
 

Q.  I mean, obviously, but, I mean, some instances maybe you have --
 
NANCY HARVEY:  Some people do.  Some people bump-and-run it. 
 

Q.  3-wood, par 5, you kind of --
 
NANCY HARVEY:  Yeah, you are right.  On 18, I took the 3-wood. 
 

Q.  I am right?
 
NANCY HARVEY:  No, but I have seen that game. 
 

Q.  I knew if I kept digging, I would get there.
 
NANCY HARVEY:  That has beat me many times.  I often wondered if I am playing the game properly.  On 18 I had 202 to the front.  I had hit a pretty good drive there.  And I hit - we were just a little on to a cornering wind and I tried to hit my 3-wood down and make -- driver was just a little too much.  If I hit the driver hard -- 
 

Q.  What happened on that shot?
 
NANCY HARVEY:  Hit it right at the front of the green; just kind of died, didn't really run that much.  I maybe need to learn that shot (Laughs) but, I really didn't miss too many shots today.  Hit it pretty solid and I hit a lot of greens.  Yeah, I hit 14 greens and that is not too bad for me. The golf course, you have to be careful because a lot of the holes look very similar and kind of a lull in your sleep, and if you are not watching, it can be easy to kind of get off your mark a little bit.  The greens are large and you have to have the right club in your hand.  Club section is critical.  The greens are rolling so well that all you have to do is get it rolling and if you find the line, generally speaking, you are going to make it.  I think that is why this course scores get low here.  Golf course is playing as long as it will.  I mean, it is 6,400 yards and it is playing all of it because it is not really rolling much.  But, I think, you know, when you get it on the green, the greens are rolling so well that if you find your mark, have the right speed, it is a definite possibility to make it.  They are not bouncing too much.  And I wore my  soft spikes, so that helps keep the tap marks, keep them from being too many in front of you. 
 

Q.  Do you think the reason that the score are low here, year in year out, is just because of the putting surfaces are that good?
 
NANCY HARVEY:  Yeah, I think you found that there are so many more good ball strikers out here now and they are hitting a lot of shots closer to the hole and then the course, they are putting so much better and the scores are just dropping.  It is really good to see.  I think because the conditions and the type of golf course that it is, there is not a tremendous amount of trouble.  If you are rolling the ball well, and like you find your line, boy, it is easy to see, they really roll well.  Plus the scores just seem to be getting better all the time, anyway, so you got to keep up with the Joneses. 
 

Q.  How have you been playing this year?
 
NANCY HARVEY:  Pretty good.  Not too bad.  I have had a couple of good starts in Myrtle Beach I shot 66 the first day.  Then I shot 78 the second day.  But, I was really sick that week and I had really bad ear problems, like I had a really bad cold in my head and my ears were starting to plug the second day.  I couldn't seem to take any medication that would keep it from -- the wind was just howling in the afternoon the second day; through me off balance.  I scraped it home at 78.  I was really lucky to get it out that.  Played with Laura Davies on the weekend, both days shot 69 on Saturday; 74 on Sunday, but I hit 14, 15 greens on Sunday and just neither Laura or I could make a move.  Just couldn't seem to find the hole that day.  But I have had a lot of good weeks so far and I just like to put 4 good rounds together and have 4 good ball-striking days.  If I could have 4 good putting days, that seems to be the name of the game.  Stating the obvious, but it is seemingly just a putting contest at points. 
 

Q.  It is nice to get some warm weather?
 
NANCY HARVEY:  Yes, I love it.  Wow, I will tell you, it has been really cold.  Last week in Atlanta it was about 50, 55 degrees and rained; a little bit of wind, it was pretty chilly.  Had my rain suit on with long underwear and turtleneck and cart gloves trying to stay warm.  Myrtle Beach wasn't too bad, but I had pants all the way around there. It is really great.  As you can see, I got the white old beef stakes on the legs there.  They haven't seen sun since I left Arizona.  So it is good to get in the hot weather, no doubt.  Don't mind having a little perspiration to wipe off rather than trying to stay warm, so... 
 

Q.  Given what is at stake in this tournament, financially, whatnot, any of the other residual perks that come with it, should the course maybe play tougher than it does, do  you think?
 
NANCY HARVEY:  They have talked a little bit at times making this a fifth major, or that kind of talk, because the purse is so high and we sort of appreciate that.  Sprint has been a great sponsor.  They have been a good backer.  I think you, know, the only way you can toughen this up would be to narrow the fairways, contour them more and make the rough a little thicker.  You can certainly roll the greens and make them faster.  I personally like to see us shooting good scores and good low scores because it is indicative of how good the players are today.  You have the U.S. Open and you do have your Majors for that, but, boy it is nice to showcase the women and talent that is out there today.  Because they are really good. I think this is a good golf course for us.  It sets up well for us.  It allows us to roll a lot of putts in and I think it is a good showcase for the women. 
 

Q.  For the sake of promoting women's golf, is it better to throw a bunch of low numbers and people go "wow," instead of --
 
NANCY HARVEY:  Yeah, I think people enjoy watching the ball get up on the green close to the hole and it is exciting to watch people roll birdies in.  I'd rather see that than trying to hit 3-wood in and not hitting the green because you have got a small green or whatever, then you are bumping and running trying to make your pitch for up-and-down all the time.  I think the men have a little advantage because they have recognized that it is an entertainment thing.  I think we are slowly but surely to that turning over to that seeing that the people like to see red numbers.  You have your Opens.  Everybody knows the USGA wants even par to win the U.S. Open.  Men, Women, and the Seniors. And, I think, you know, you got time and place for everything. But everybody likes to see good golf and appreciate good golf and I think you have got a golf course here that will showcase that.  You will see a lot of really good shots, a lot of good wedge shots, mid-irons; a lot of long irons.  I am hitting everything in my bag.  So, that, to me, is a good test of golf as well.  It is not always about, you know, putting a premium on hitting your driver or just getting it in play kind of thing.  You still have to put the ball in the hole.  So it is nice to be able to hit the whole scope of play.  Do you guys like to see low scores? 
 

Q.  We love to see you suffer.  I like to go to the Open and watch people suffer.
 
NANCY HARVEY:  Well, you do see that at the Open, no doubt about that.  I think that if we did that every week, week in and week out, we would all be ready for that rubber room. 
 

Q.  What is the toughest shot on this golf course, the tee shot or the approach; what is the most important one?
 
NANCY HARVEY:  Well, I have always said I thought  there was 3 things to the game of golf that makes it good.  (1) you have to drive it in play and obviously the longer you drive it, the better and straighter, the better you have got for hitting into the greens.  Much rather have 8-iron in my hand, although I love my long irons, rather hit 8 than 3.  Same shot into the green, but really that is only part of it because I think it is really more from 100 yards and this is where you really see the stuff being done.  And, really, you have to make everything inside, you know, three or four, five feet.  That kind of thing, the flat stick on the short putts has to be rolling.  It is easy to miss one or two and start questioning yourself or whatever.  But if you have all those components working for you, you have got a pretty good makeup for making a good score because you have got -- like I look at some of the gals that hit it longer and they have got 2 par 5s, they can get home in 2 and you -- already they are playing for par 70, so, you know, for a shorter hitter, it is, you know, it is more an advantage on this kind of golf course to be a longer hitter if anything.  But, I am not going to complain, I'll take it in the red any time I can get it there.  Any other questions? 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT