MLB WORLD SERIES: ASTROS VS DODGERS
October 26, 2017
Yu Darvish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you ever envision or how many times did you envision that this moment would happen with the Rangers, and are you at all regret full that this didn't happen with the Rangers.
YU DARVISH: Of course, while I was with the Rangers, that's something that -- this is the goal.  This is a goal that I've been trying.
Q. Throughout your career, when you were pitching in the World Baseball Classic, Japan Series and the high school tournament in Japan.  Mentally do you feel any different from those big stages that you were pitching for?
YU DARVISH: That's a long time ago, so I really don't remember how I felt or mentally where I was at on those previous big stages.  But my mental right now is about the same as CS and DS.
Q. Seems like you're very calm, even-keeled on a big stage, but what makes you so mentally stable?
YU DARVISH: It's just who I am and my character characteristics.
Q. Since you've been pitching here before, but it's going to be DH tomorrow, that means you're going to be facing one more hitter, compared to facing a National League team where you are hitting, does that make it more of an advantage or disadvantage?
YU DARVISH: I think it's going to be a big advantage for me not to go out there and swing a bat and I don't have to run or anything like that.  So I think it's a big advantage.
Q. Since you watched two games, Dodgers play against Houston, the lineups, what's your impression of them?  Is there anything different than the time you faced them before?
YU DARVISH: It stays the same.  They've got good lineups.
Q. You pitched three times in the Japan Series, and 1-1 and whoever won the third game, won the championship. Are you aware of it or is there anything to it, pitching tomorrow?
YU DARVISH: Any games that we play right now is important, not necessarily first game, second game, third game, any game we play right now it important.
Q. Since you are pitching different from the last time you faced Houston, is there a new approach to those hitters in the Houston lineup tomorrow?
YU DARVISH: Me, personally, like I really don't change much going into tomorrow's outing, but to them I'm a different kind of pitcher, different type of pitcher in my pitch selection.  So they feel I may have a different approach.
Q. How much of an advantage will your familiarity with this ballpark help you?  You've had a number of starts here and had some good success.
YU DARVISH: I feel like it doesn't really matter.  It's better to know that I've pitched here before.  But tomorrow's game, it could be totally different from my previous outings, here.  But like I said, it's better to know this stadium and I pitched here before.  Maybe it will give me a little bit of an advantage, but it really doesn't matter.
Q. In the United States we hear a lot of stories about when prominent players from Japan come over and play in a big game like this, lots of people back home in Japan stay up or get up early, depending on what time the game is, to watch certain players, were there any players like that for you where you stayed up late or got up early to watch them play?
YU DARVISH: I'm not that kind of person, like stay up late and watch something, like people get excited for World Cup soccer or something like that, but I'm not that type of person.
Q. Are there any keys to you tomorrow to do, to prepare to try to win the game or keep pitching the same way?
YU DARVISH: When I get off the mound, I just want the team to have a chance to win, so that's my goal tomorrow.
Q. You wore a "Houston Strong" T-shirt and showed support to Houston, does that mean something to you?
YU DARVISH: I made a donation to help, to support Houston and I want people to get recovered and feel more energized.  And since I made that donation, maybe I can use a ball that doesn't have much pop in it, maybe (laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT