NL DIVISION SERIES: DIAMONDBACKS VS DODGERS
October 8, 2017
Yu Darvish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If the Dodgers win, that means you're going to go win the Division Series, but mentally how are you prepared for tomorrow's outing?  
YU DARVISH: I don't want to think about it too much.  I try to take it as a regular outing.  Hopefully that I go deep in the game like I normally do and just prepare as much as I can and just be ready to go.   
 Q.  You mentioned to us before that in any kind of situation, any type of game that you try to act like it's a normal game and take it game by game, but is it something like more pressure this time since you're here to pitch for the playoffs?  
YU DARVISH: My focus is to just control what I can and do what I can do.  Just because I worked hard today or do something different today, that doesn't necessarily mean I'm going to throw a 110-mile-an-hour fastball.  It's not going to change that much.   
So just try to take it, like I said before, try to take it as a normal game, same thing tomorrow.   
 Q.  After the start in New York, your first one with the Dodgers, you said that Farhan, the GM, had given you a lot of information about game planning, how to use your pitch arsenal.  Dave just mentioned again that they've thrown a lot of data at you over the weeks.  What have you learned from this process?  Has it been really enlightening, stuff that you hadn't thought of or seen before?  
YU DARVISH: I mean, I got information, but I've been pitching really well, and right now I'm trying to focus on what I do and not to worry about what they do.  So basically I want to pitch to my strengths.  Of course they gave me information, so I'm going to pitch basically with my strength.  And with that little bit of information that they gave to me, I think I can use it, and I think it's going to be very helpful for tomorrow's outing.   
 Q.  Last time you pitched in Arizona you mentioned about the dry weather and the certain pitches move and certain pitches move differently, like cutter, sinker and then slider and two-seam.  But how would you like to apply the experience, pitched here in Arizona before, and then now that you've changed your mechanics and all that stuff going towards tomorrow's outing?  
YU DARVISH: Right now I cannot say much about it because you don't know unless you go on the mound and you start throwing it.  Like you mentioned, I changed my mechanics and all that, so that may move differently.  But, like I said, you never know until you get on the mound and see how you move.   
So I want to go out there, and if I see something, I'll make my adjustments.   
 Q.  Since you're pitching in the playoffs, there is probably going to be more nervousness and pressure, you're pitching in the playoffs compared to a regular season outing.  But you mentioned changing the mechanics and your pitch selection, the approach has been changed.  Do you think that's going to benefit going into the high-intensity game?  
YU DARVISH: I think it will benefit me because they haven't seen me pitch like I do now, like the last time we faced them, and then now how I pitch is different.  So I think that's going to benefit me.  Of course the pitches, like certain pitches were different, and then my approach is different too.  So I think that's going to benefit going towards tomorrow.   
 Q.  Since you joined the Dodgers, they've asked you to work on changing your arm slot, the timing in your delivery and your pitch selection.  What do they not want you to change?  
YU DARVISH: It was especially from Andrew Friedman and Farhan, they told me, like, hey, you should not change your good-looking face.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT