WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 29, 2020
Jamie Murray
Neal Skupski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Jamie, tough one today.  How happy are you still first tournament back to make such a nice run?
JAMIE MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, obviously after so long off the tour, to come back and have your first tournament as a Masters Series, get all the way through the final, play four good matches, obviously it's good news for us.
Yeah, I mean, good week for us.  Obviously gives us a lot of preparation, good preparation, going into US Open, as well.  Yeah, trying to get on another run there.
Q. Second set you started playing better, came into your rhythm.  Is there a way to sort of describe how you saw what happened at the end of the second set?
JAMIE MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, obviously we turned it 'round well.  We were playing good tennis, playing probably the tennis we needed to play against those guys, the right sort of style, intensity.  Kind of messed up my serve a bit.  Certainly messed up at 5-3 when I was serving for it.
Obviously disappointing to let that go because I think we should have been able to kind of see that through to get a chance in a match tiebreak.  That stuff happens in doubles sometimes.  Things can change fast, swings of momentum.  We definitely let it slip today, the second set.
Q. Neal, the draw, what was your reaction when you saw it?  Dodig...
NEAL SKUPSKI:   We saw the draw coming off the court last night.  Yeah, I mean, tough match.  Them boys, they lit up the second half of last season together.  We played them numerous times, come out second best.
I think we've been getting closer every match.  Yeah, it's a new match.  Whenever we play, Wednesday or Thursday, we're going to take great confidence from this week, making the final.  Beat good teams.  I mean, them guys, they've only played one match.  They lost first round here.  Hopefully we can get them cold.
We have to raise our level from today, bring good energy, execute our shots and take advantage of the opportunities that we get.  Them guys are going to be tough.  We're playing well and have great confidence we can win that match.
Q. Jamie, your reaction to the talk of a new players association?
JAMIE MURRAY:   I mean, a lot of stuff up in the air, potential changes happening.  I think there's no secret that the structure with the ATP is challenging I think.  I think a lot of players have grievances about that, their representation on the tour in comparison to the tournaments.
Yeah, I don't know what it's going to mean if it does go ahead.  I think there's so many unknowns.  It's a big step to take, a big risk in my mind.  Potentially lose any leverage you have, you potentially lose your seat at the table.
I don't think there's really a sort of clear path of direction of where this might end up.
Q. Andy suggested one of the things he would maybe not be happy about is the fact that there's no suggestion of women players being involved.  Would you go along with that?
JAMIE MURRAY:   I honestly don't know.  I think this is potentially separate in the fact that it's more an issue with the ATP rather than maybe tennis as a whole.  I think that's probably more the main fight for a lot of these players.  I don't think it's necessarily a fight with the whole tennis, if that makes sense.
For all I know, the women might be very happy with how they're represented on the WTA.  I don't know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT