RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2007
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN CALLANDER:  Catriona, round of 68 today, 141, 5-under.  Tell us about your round today.   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, delighted the wind didn't pick up as much as I thought it would and happy with my round.   
  
  Q.  How well did you play today?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, obviously played really well today.  Just kind of missed the ball in the right place, and avoided the bunkers and gave myself a few birdie chances and managed to take advantage, which was good.   
  
  Q.  What was the difference between today and yesterday's 73?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, I think just got off to a better start.  I missed probably an 8-footer for birdie on the first and holed from about six feet on the second and just gave myself chances on the first few holes.  In this kind of wind you want to try to get off to a good start and that's what I did.   
 6, I hit just a little sand iron onto about eight feet and holed that.   
 7, kind of got a little lucky.  Hit my driver off the tee and it just shot forward and managed to miss the bunker and putted up to probably five feet and holed that for birdie.   
 11, hit 6-iron into eight feet and holed that one.   
 17, I hit my four rescue on to the green and 2-putted for a birdie.   
  
  Q.  Did you get any vibe this morning that it was going to be a really good day for you?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No.  I thought -- I mean, the weather forecast I saw was it was meant to be really windy.  I saw it wasn't windy this morning and it started picking up when I was practising and I thought the other way just, I thought, oh, God, it's just going to be just kind of hang on today.   
 So, yeah, obviously started well which is obviously crucial.   
  
  Q.  Have you made any adjustment this year from how you played previously?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No, I haven't, to be honest.   
Q. Have you received your Honorary Membership of the St Rule Club yet? What was your lowest round at the St Rule Trophy?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yes, I have received that.  I came up for a practise round a few weeks ago, and received it then which was very nice.   
 My lowest round, I think was maybe a 67.  I can't be certain.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  On a very different golf course.   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, obviously a different course. Much shorter.   
  
  Q.  Do you think your experience from your amateur days here serves you well?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yes, I think so, definitely.  It's amazing how quickly you remember the course even though it was a long time ago.  I played it, just putting from so far off -- and I've putted well this week.  My lag putting has been good from 40 feet, which obviously you need to do well here.  Yeah, maybe just a little bit of experience.   
  
  Q.  How well did you play in the practise round?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Not overly well.  Got beaten.   
  
  Q.  The last Scot to contend in an Open here was a certain Colin Montgomerie. Do you look forward to contending with the nation on your shoulders?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  Hopefully it will inspire me.  Obviously it's great today finishing those last few holes and there's still some big crowds out there cheering me on, so it was a great feeling.  Nice to get some support, when you play in the States all the time, I don't get the same sort of support.   
  
  Q.  Do you know Colin well?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No, I've never met him, actually.   
  
  Q.  Has having baby, Katie, helped you to relax on the golf course?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, it really has.  Golf isn't quite as important which helps me relax a little bit more.   
 Certainly busier, have to manage my time a little better, make my practise more productive.   
  
  Q.  Will you be able to bath her tonight?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No, she'll probably be in bed by now.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you will feel a mixture of excitement and nerves over the weekend?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, obviously it wouldn't be normal if you're not going to be nervous over the next two days.  But I'm playing well so there's no reason why I can't go out and have another couple of good rounds.   
  
  Q.  How were the crowds today?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, it was great, certainly, coming down the last few holes.  It was a great feeling, hearing all of the cheering when you are coming on the green.   
  
  Q.  And the rest of the course?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, obviously there are crowds from the first hole.  But with the stands on the last few holes, I think you kind of hear it more I think.   
  
  Q.  Were the conditions better than you expected?   
  CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I think it's lucky, we've had the same wind every day, just about, which makes it easier.  But certainly a little bit windier today than yesterday but not as windy as they forecast, so I think we're lucky with that.    
  Q. In the men's game, winning a major can be a life-changing thing. Is it the same in the women's game?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I don't know, really. Yeah, you could ask me that on Sunday.  Yeah, obviously it would be great to win.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Catriona, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT