U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2007
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Ladies and gentlemen, Catriona Matthew had the lowest round of the championship today with a 4-under par 67.  She is even for the week.  Just a great round, you obviously felt a lot better than your opening 75? 
  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think the first day I was maybe just a little nervous maybe trying a little too hard. Today I went out and tried to relax a bit more. 



 Obviously, it's going to be tricky out there, just trying to aim for the middle of the greens and hope to hole a few putts, which I did today. 

 Q.  Did you start on hole No. 1?  Did you play 18 holes? 
  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think it's easier starting on 1. No nine is easy, but the front nine definitely you got a few more birdie chances there if you hit it good. 

 Q.  You had a little bit of a shaky start off the tee.  The tee shots may have been very good but you were in the rough five times by my count. 
  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Right. Yeah, they weren't bad, bad shots. Just kind of ran out through the fairway a couple of times. I don't think I was ever actually in the thick stuff, I was just kind of in the first cut. 

 Q.  What are you going to do this afternoon probably teeing off around 3, 3:30? 
  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Just going to go have a bit of lunch and maybe have a shower and change and freshen up for this afternoon. 

 Q.  The constant threat of rain pretty much all tournament, does that play with your head a little bit?  Is it more difficult to focus? 
  CATRIONA MATTHEW: A little bit. Yesterday you never quite knew whether you were going to come or go. It makes it a little more difficult just to kind of keep your focus going. 

 Q.  To go from 5-over to get back to even when did you feel yourself heating up today? 
  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Well, I bogeyed 2. Bad second shot, pushed to the right, and the one tree down the right which I was behind, so I couldn't really go at the pin from there. 



 Then birdied right back on the third hole, which I holed a good putt there.  Kind of a curvy one.  15 footer.  Got me back going again. 
 And I played well really all day.  Gave myself a lot of chances and as I said just holed a few putts today, which makes all the difference. 

 Q.  You had a chip-in I believe on No. 6.  Tell us about that shot. 
  CATRIONA MATTHEW: I was hitting a 6-iron in there, really because I didn't think I could go long. And it went long. And it actually wasn't that difficult a chip. I was kind of pitching back up, back up the hill. And so that was a bonus when they go in. 

 Q.  What club did you use? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I used a 58 degree. 

 Q.  Do you almost wish you could maybe turn around and tee off for your next round right a way, being so hot? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW:  It would be nice to have a little rest.  And get something to eat, I think. 

 Q.  What did you do yesterday? 
  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yesterday, just kind of waited around. Lucky we're stage right here, which make it's a lot easier. Just kind of hung around and waited. Like everyone else. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT