WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 26, 2005
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  We're joined by Catriona Matthew in the interview area after a second consecutive 66.  12 under for the tournament and you're in first place all by yourself.  Just go ahead and talk about your day and then we'll take questions.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I played really pretty well again today.  Drove it well.  Made my score on the front nine today.  Yesterday it was the back nine.  So nice to get the eagle on No. 9.  And then I had a lot of chances there coming in, 16, 17 I missed a couple chances for birdie.  But very happy with the round.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll go ahead and take questions.
Q.  Talk about what part of your game you were most pleased with today?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I mean, I kind of did most things pretty well.  Drove it well again and had a lot of (indiscernible) irons which hit pretty close (indiscernible).  When you shoot 66, you're doing most things quite well.
Q.  Did the conditions change at all?  There was a little rain or moisture in the morning or overnight perhaps even.  Is it pretty much the same course as what it was?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think the greens are a little more receptive this morning than yesterday afternoon.  I think the heat and the sun yesterday really dried them out, but they were getting pretty firm.
Q.  You're kind of on a roll on this course, from last year to this year.  What is it?  Does this course suit your game?  Feel good here?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, yeah.  Obviously it must suit my game.  Yeah.  I just kind of like to look at all the tee shots and seem to hit the greens well.  That's the difference.
Q.  Are there any other golf courses that you have particularly played well on besides here?  And would they be similar to here as well?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I used to always play well at the Betsy King tournament.  Unfortunately not having that one anymore.  No, it wasn't really that similar golf course, no.  Just I think there are things, the kind of course that you like.
Q.  Were you aware that Karrie made kind of a run there?  Are you a scoreboard watcher?  Did you see her coming up?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I saw her    yeah, we got to about I think 15 or 16, I saw her board and saw she was at 11.  So yeah.
Q.  Can you briefly talk about the mental side of it too?  You have to be very confident walking out there each time (indiscernible) played on the course, and that's so important for the game?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I think it is.  You've got to be confident over your shots.  The moment you start doubting yourself with the shots, it's going to get difficult.  Try to remember the good shots you shot.
Q.  Not a question, but when you won the tournament a year ago, was there anything specially that you did with the money or anything that you bought?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Nothing that jumps out to me, I must say.  No.  Sorry.
Q.  And there's nothing necessarily that you'd bank on in the future, I guess, because you never know for sure.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  (Laughter).
Q.  Did you play here the first two years that that tournament was here?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I didn't play here the first year.
Q.  Okay.  What I was wondering, when did this, for lack of a better term, love affair start with Tartan start?  Was there a certain point in time where you figured it out?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  When I one the tournament last year.
Q.  The first year you played it, did you
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  The first year, I really can't remember how I did, to be honest.  I couldn't tell you.  Last year winning it, yeah.
Q.  With these conditions, do you    obviously, leading the tournament, do you now have to say to yourself, I just have to keep making this kind of a score because the scores are out there?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think so, yeah.  I think every day you're going to see people shooting low scores.  If I can shooting 5, 6 under, it's going to be tougher for them to try and catch me.
Q.  Is it kind of a difficult situation?  I mean, on one hand, you're really happy, you went 66 66, but you've got a one shot lead?  I mean...
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I'd still take the 66 66. (Laughter.)
Q.
Yeah, but you didn't separate yourself necessarily from anybody either?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No.  I mean, obviously there's lots of birdies out there.  That's why I'm shooting 66 66.  Other people are capable of doing it as well.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over that 66?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Okay.  Started on the first today.  First birdie came on the 3rd hole.  I hit a little wedge on to probably 12 feet and holed that one for birdie.

And 4, the par 5, I hit 4 wood down just to the right of the green and popped it to down to a couple of feet and holed that for birdie.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Would you say about 4 feet maybe?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  A couple of feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  And you were just off the green?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah.  I was just probably, I don't know, 5 yards off the green on the right.
PAUL ROVNAK:  But you putted?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah.

No. 7 I hit a wedge on to probably about 25 feet and holed that for birdie.

Then No. 9 I hit my rescue to 8 feet and holed that one for eagle.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Was that right, left side or did it roll behind?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I was about 8 feet, pin high right.

No. 12 I hit sand iron on to probably 15 feet and holed that one for birdie.

Then 14 I just had a bad shot off the tee, kind of blocked the 5 iron, just kind of went a little long right and didn't really hit a great chip and missed probably a 20 footer for par.

Then 18 I hit an 8 iron on to probably 10 feet and holed that for birdie.
Q.  When you said yesterday you probably hit nothing more than 8 iron into the par 4s, is that typical of most weeks?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No.  I mean, well, Sweden, the last tournament I played, I was hitting nothing but 4 irons.  That course played really long.  It just varies from course to course.  Some weeks it plays longer than others.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT