WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 25, 2005
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Catriona, thanks for coming in and joining us.  Defending champion this week.  And you're starting right where you left off last year.  You're 66 and tied for the lead.  Just your thoughts on today.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, it was great.  I got off to a perfect start.  I birdied the first three holes.  It's just great when you're defending and start well and be in contention again.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll go ahead and take questions.
Q.  Could you talk act your game today, what was the best part of your game and how you played?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think I drilled it pretty well.  I gave myself a lot of short irons into the greens.  (Indiscernible) couple of long putts for birdie.  But on the whole they were fairly short.

I think the key out here is if you drive it well, you can set yourself up for a lot of short irons.
Q.  You must like this course?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah.  Obviously, having played well last year, I think that just gives you some added confidence coming in this year.
Q.  (No microphone).
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Maybe a little bit.  It's nice to get off to a good start.  You don't want to come defending champion and not play well.  It's nice to get off to a good start.
Q.  Is it difficult when you see the early wave, they're shooting 66s and 67s?  Not that you feel like you've got to go really low, but just to keep up you've got to go a few under?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, that's why my start helped so much, birdying the first three.  After that start, just make a few more birdies, I was just right in there.  So (indiscernible) a few pars, trying a bit hard (indiscernible) to get some birdies.
Q.  Catriona, what will it take to kind of reduce this log jam a little bit of everybody up at the top of the leader board?  Does the course need to dry out or what?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think just over the four rounds it will even itself out.  I think over four rounds the log jam will disappear.
Q.  Catriona, this is such a fragile game, the mental side of this.  You had such a great finish last year.  How much does that play into today, where you know you feel good on the course, mentally?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah.  I mean, obviously, I think it helps.  I know I've played well in the first course, so I know I can do it again.  It just gives you that extra confidence.
Q.  (No microphone)?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Trying.  Obviously it's at the back of your mind.  But trying not to think about it too much.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over your score card please?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Start on No. 10, so birdie 10.  Hit the wedge in for probably 6 feet and holed that one.

Then 11, the par 5, I hit a little 9 iron into two feet and holed that one.  12, I hit a little wedge into probably 6 feet and holed that for birdie.

Then 15, par 3, bogeyed.  Hit 7 iron and just (indiscernible) and went long and missed possibly an 8 footer for par.

And then 16 I hit a little sand iron into 5 feet and holed that one.  And 18 I hit 9 iron to probably about 15 feet and holed that for birdie.

Then (indiscernible) No. 5 where I hit    I hit a little 9 iron on to probably 20 feet and holed that for birdie.

And then 7, I hit sand iron into about five feet, holed that one.

Then bad bogey on 8.  Just got    didn't want to go long and (indiscernible) came up short.  And then three putted (indiscernible) my first shot (indiscernible) and missed the turn.  So nice little birdie on 9.  Hit 4 iron to the back of the green (indiscernible) and just hit a tap in for the birdie.
Q.  You're getting enough roll in the fairway to come at the greens with short irons?  What's the longest iron approach, not yardage, that you had today for a birdie opportunity?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  On the par 4, probably about an 8 iron for the ones I birdied, yeah.
Q.  Is that just because you're getting
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  The course has dried out a lot since the start of the week.  Getting a lot more roll (indiscernible) the ball was (indiscernible).
Q.  Do you have a hunch that these greens might dry out too by Sunday?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah.  I mean, they're getting pretty firm up (indiscernible) wasn't any way you could get a good hold on that green (indiscernible) 4 iron in (indiscernible).
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT