WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 24, 2005
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Catriona, thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  We appreciate your time.  Defending champion this week.  I imagine it's always nice to come back to a place where you won   in a playoff last year.  Talk about coming back.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yes, it's great to be back.  Doesn't feel like long since I've been here.  Yeah, I mean, obviously going in the course, you remember some of the shots you hit last year.  Yeah, it's just a great feeling to come back as defending champion.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll go ahead and take questions.
Q.  Talking about some of the shots last year, have you thought in the past year about how that entire final round unfolded, looked like Hee Won was getting away.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, it was really I suppose down 14, she made a bogey on 14, the par 5.  I think that let me get back within two shots.  And then I hit a really good shot into 15, the par 3.  It was really just after I holed that putt that you kind of realized how close it was.  Then obviously birdied 17.

Yes, I mean, most of the round she was kind of maybe two, three shots ahead.  Just at 14, that bogey of hers kind of made you feel as though you had a chance.
Q.  Not the players' perception, but the public's perception, everybody believes a tournament is different if Annika is here.  Does it have a different feel when the No. 1 player is present?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I don't think the tournament really has a different feel, no.  I mean, obviously she's the one to beat this week.  If you beat her, you're going to have a good week.

I mean, this year there's a lot of other good players playing well.  Natalie is playing well, Paula Creamer.  I mean, the actual feel of the tournament doesn't really feel any different.
Q.  How much is your mind looking ahead to Solheim Cup?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  You know, a little bit.  Obviously, I'm hopefully relying on a pick from Catrin.  Hopefully I'll hear on Sunday and get some good news.

Obviously, I'd want to be playing in and trying to defend it over in America, win in America, something Europe has never done.  It's in the back of your mind.
Q.  (Question regarding the highs and lows of Solheim Cup.)
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, Muirfield Village, I lost the point that lost the whole Cup.  I mean, I think when you're away from home, as well, obviously the crowd is a big part of it.  Then in Sweden, I got the winning point.  It goes from one extreme to the other.  Maybe this year I'll be somewhere in the middle (laughter).
Q.  Now that you're so close to Muirfield Village, have you gone back over there since it doesn't have the best memories for you?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No, I really like the course actually.  I did think it was a great course.  I stayed there for the media day.  I've never played the course again.
Q.  How are you playing right now and how do you feel going into this?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I feel hike I'm playing well.  I've had two weeks off.   Had about 10 days at home in Scotland, then went and had some lessons for a couple of days.  So, yeah, feeling pretty good with my game.  Played pretty well today, so...
Q.  Can you talk about what part of your game you're happiest with right now.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think I'm driving it well.  I think just the last probably two or three weeks I played, my putting was starting to come around a bit.  Kind of two key parts.
Q.  How was the course today?  What was your impression of the course out there?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think the course is in great shape.  I think it's starting to dry out a bit.  I think I heard they had a storm here at the weekend.

But, yeah, it's starting to dry out, which is good.  It's in great shape.  The greens are good.  The fairways are nice.
Q.  Do you want it to play drier than it is?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean.  Yeah, I prefer kind of playing firm and fast fairways.
Q.  Solheim Cup, Annika is not one to hang around the locker room, do a lot of BS'ing, that kind of thing.  In a Solheim Cup situation, is she more involved, more passionate?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, I think in the Solheim, you're very much part of the team.  You go and eat together.  You do everything together.  So, yeah, it's very much a team atmosphere.  Everyone kind of comes together more as a team rather than week to week on tour, a lot of people do their own type of thing, practice.

Yeah, it's definitely a different week.  Everyone is very much more together.
Q.  You can't think of an example of how Annika has been different during Solheim?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Let me think.  I'd say in Sweden last year, she had some T shirts made up with   what year was that   2003 winners.  She gave us one on the Saturday night.  That kind of got us going.
Q.  She was pretty confident?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  She was trying to get us going.
Q.  What about the punching bag at Muirfield?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I can't remember that much.  Too far back.
Q.  In your Solheim Cup competitions, has there been a lot of gamesmanship or has that been minimal?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Certainly from my experience, it's been    there hasn't really been any.  The games I've played, there hasn't been any.
Q.  Nothing personal ever for you?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No, no.
Q.  You talked about relying on a pick from Catrin.  Would that be the birthday present you're looking for?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  That would be nice, yeah.
Q.  What is your standing?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Obviously, I haven't played enough in Europe to get in on points.  I think Catrin has five picks.  I'm hoping to be one of five.
Q.  She's given you no indication?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No.
Q.  When is the last time you talked to her?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I saw her in Sweden about two weeks ago.
Q.  Did she say anything at that point?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No.  Keeping us waiting.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Thanks very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT