ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 6, 2019
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOM BENBOW: Two-time champion of this event in 2011 and 2013, making your ninth appearance this year.  I think you've been asked this a million times, when you play in Scotland, what is it you love about this event?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it's great fun playing at home.  Obviously there's more pressure I think.  It's always tougher, especially when you do it so infrequently, I think, playing in your home country.  For me, this really is at home.  I live just down the road.
Yeah, it's nice to be able to stay at home, but it does make it a kind of different week.
TOM BENBOW: Are your children going to come down and watch you play?  Does that give you extra motivation?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: They might come along and watch a few holes I think, yeah.  Drag them along.
TOM BENBOW: One of the questions everyone has on their lips this week is Solheim Cup.  You're obviously the Team Europe captain, and this is the last event for qualification and the announcement on Monday.  How far down the list are you looking at players, or do you have a couple of four or five in mind right now?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I mean, I have a few in mind but there's a lot of points up for grabs.  I think the winner gets 70 points.  If you look mathematically, there's a lot of people who could still potentially play their way in.  There's still a big pool.  I'm looking at a slightly smaller one, but you have to be ready for that unexpected result.
TOM BENBOW: Last week you played with Bronte and she kind of showed her quality the first two days, really putting in a master class at Woburn.  The draw isn't out yet.  Would you like to hope that the LPGA and LET put you with a prospective player this week?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Let's see who we get.  Could be interesting.  Could put a bet on that pairing.
Q. How close at the moment are the automatic positions to what you maybe envisage they might be from when the whole process started?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Oh, right, from the start, I would say -- probably fairly close.  The two that probably played their ways in positions are Anne and Caroline.  Two years ago, weren't thinking they would be automatically in, but the rest of them you would have expected them to be in the team if you were looking at it two years ago.  I would say those two are the two that have pushed their way into the automatic spots.
Q. How much have you talked to people in the frame over the last few weeks to let them know what they need to do?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I mean, I've tried to, yeah.  Obviously I've got my eye on a few people and yeah, I think, as well, as a player, you kind of know some of them haven't had the results the last couple of weeks they would have liked and know they have to putt in a big week this week.  Yeah, I think everyone kind of hopefully knows what they need to do.
Q. The American Team, there's seven of the eight, I think sorted already.  Do you see a lot of change in the personnel on their team?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I would say you're probably seeing a definite change.  You've got people like Michelle, obviously not playing, Paula, obviously Brittany Lincicome won't be playing.  Brittany Lang perhaps isn't playing as well as normal.  They will have a new team this year, but don't get me wrong, they will be they are going to be good players.  Nelly Korda, obviously being a rookie, Marina Alex, Megan Khang, they are all good players.  They will have some new ones, but we are not going to be fooled into thinking that they are not good players.
Q. Have you made any additions to the backroom team?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Laura (Davies).
Q. Apart from that?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: We've got some helpers, yeah.  So we've got most of them all organised, as well.  Yeah, we're more organised sometimes than we look.
Q. Coming down the road and seeing your face on posters, how do you find that?  Is it strange for you?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, we normally take the inland roads to avoid them.  Yeah, the kids get a laugh about that.
TOM BENBOW: The vice captains are all here this week.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Kathryn is coming on Friday.
TOM BENBOW: Suzann is making her first appearance.  Is she thinking her win might put her into any contention?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I suppose you need to ask Suzann that.  But it's great to see her playing.  I played with her and she was impressed and looked like she had not been away.  She was perhaps a little unsure of how she might play with being out of the game for probably the year and a half she was.
I think just from talking to her, she's kind of got that bug back in her system and is keen to start playing again.
Q. How have you found the experience of being so focused on other players' games the last couple years, and less focused on your own?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I've enjoyed, it actually.  Obviously this week -- it's never going to be easy telling the ones who don't quite make it.  I've been in that position and it's not -- unfortunately there's only 12 on the team, so there are going to be two or three who are disappointed.
Yeah, it's been fun.  It's been interesting.  I've enjoyed watching them and just seeing how they are performing these last few weeks when the pressure really is on.
Q. When you have a captaincy, would you have hoped there would be a Scot more firmly in the frame to be making this team?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it would have been nice to see a Scot up there and in with a chance.  But realistically, you're probably not looking at that this time.  You know, hopefully a couple of them can breakthrough into it next time.
Q. You were talking about Suzann just now.  Would she be considered as a pick?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think at this stage, you know, everyone's being considered.  I think a lot will depend on the blend of the team.  We've got a few rookies in there perhaps potentially, so looking at perhaps whether you want foursomes, fourball, adaptable players who can play both formats.
Yeah, at the moment, I would say the last kind of probably couple of spots are up for grabs.
Q. Obviously you know what Suzann can do, played with her.  In terms of how the opposition sees Suzann Pettersen?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Obviously she has a lot of experience.  I think she is played in eight maybe, or she should have been eight or she should have been nine.
Q. You took her place?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I pinched one from her there.  Yeah, obviously she's got the experience there.  I would say she's looking good, actually.  I think she's looking confident.  She putted well at the Dow.  So it will be interesting to see how she did this week.
TOM BENBOW: Taking it back to this week, did you manage to watch any of this tournament when the men's was on?  Did you take note of how the course was playing and pick up anything.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I was at home, actually.  I watched a little, not a whole lot.  Came along with the kids.  Didn't see a ton of golf.  They play such a different game from us to be honest, and conditions look like they are going to be quite different for them than they are going to be for us.
I played the course maybe a couple of weeks ago, so got to see it then.  Yeah, it's going to be good.
Q. You've mentioned a couple of times how tough it is to have to tell people who are not on the team.  What do you think are the secrets to how the job needs to be done?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I mean, I think when I took it on, I think you had to accept that you're going to make mistakes and probably you're going to annoy people.
No matter what you do, someone's not going to be happy with your decision.  The best thing I've tried to do is try to be up front with people and communicate if they come and ask me, I'll try and be fairly honest in what I think they need to do.  I think communication is what I'm hoping and I'll try to do.
Q. You had a year when you didn't get in.  How were you told?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I wasn't told, actually.
Q. Is that the worst thing?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think that's the worst.  I mean, I think you've got to tell the people who aren't in.  I think they deserve that.
Q. Ryder Cup Captains talk about how their own games fall being in the position.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: That's my excuse then.
Q. Is that the case this year?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I don't know.  I struggled a little bit with my game.  I actually went out and played nine holes and was pleased.  Striking my irons better than I have been.  I could make it an excuse but it's more down to me rather than being captain.
Q. Tell us a thing or two about uniforms, because people always like to mow know.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, we're back to Abacus this year.  They have done perhaps three Solheims in the past.  Obviously I wear their clothing, as well.  I think their clothing is great, actually.  It fits everyone.  It's the kind of clothing that whatever shape, size, it's quite classic and they are not defensive to anyone.  I think we are going to have a tartan-theme Friday.  Obviously the blue and yellow on Sunday.
Yeah, pleased with how the uniforms have come out.
TOM BENBOW: Thanks for joining us and best of luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT