CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2004
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I started on the first and birdied with a wedge to probably about five feet and holed that one.

Then bogeyed No. 4.  Pulled a 4 iron kind of up onto the slope and didn't really have much chance of getting up and down.  Probably had like 25, 30 feet.

Then on 5, hit 7 iron in to probably five feet and holed that one for birdie.

And 6, I hit 3 wood on to the green and 2 putted for birdie.  I was probably about 25 feet.

Then made a good save on 9 out of the bunker, green side bunker, holed about a 6 footer for par.

Then 12, I made a good up and down again.  Just spun off back down the slope and hit a chip up to probably seven feet and holed that one for par.

Then 17, I hit an 8 iron onto 10 feet and holed it for birdie.

And then 18, I hit my     it's like a 3 rescue I got out of the bunker, just on to the fringe of the green and 2 putted for birdie.
NEAL REID:  How far were you on that first putt?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   It really can't that long, about 20 feet but had to play about ten feet of break.  So take the two putts.
NEAL REID:  Nice, strong 68 today.  Must have felt pretty good out there.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I felt like I played pretty well.  Maybe could have hit my irons a little better.  Still fight soft out there, it's tough to get good contact on some of them, but made a good up and downs on 9 and 12 that kept my round going and finished with a nice couple of birdies.
NEAL REID:  Is there anything in particular that you like about this golf course?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think the greens here are always good, which I like.  And you've really got to hit good shots.  You know when you're playing well when you play around here.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   You hit a bad shot and you're penalized, you can't afford to miss many shots.
Q.  Does it help when your partner is playing well?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, it does help.  Lorie had a great stretch at the start of the back nine, so I think it just kind of helps you if everyone is playing well in the group.
Q.  What in particular was clicking for you today?  What part of your game was clicking about you?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I think I drove it pretty well.  I didn't miss many fairways, that was probably the best part of my game, I would say, today.
Q.  Is this the kind of course that you need to manage your game or can you pin your ears back and go for the flags?  Does this course lure you in?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I think you have to manage a little bit.  There are certain greens you have to pick your spots, yeah, you have to be quite careful around it.  You can't just stand and fire at anywhere.
Q.  Has it been frustrating not to win in so long?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, it is.  Hopefully one of these weeks, I just feel that if I can keep kind of plodding away and keep being up there, one of these weeks, it will be my week.  Obviously you need to be playing well, if I can just keep doing that.  I think you need a little bit of luck to win, but hopefully it's coming again, another win.
Q.  Can you talk about this year being a four round tournament versus a three round, and if you like that better overall?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, probably prefer four round tournaments.  Three, rounds, you know you can get a little bit of luck of the draw, so four rounds is probably better, I think, because you don't know how many rounds you will get in because of the weather.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT