KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2004
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  We'll go over your score card last.  But congratulations on a good round today.  We were taking you'll take a 67 the first round of a major anytime, right?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, it's a great start to get off to.  I mean, there was no real wind out there today.  The greens were maybe a little softer.  Tried to just take advantage of that.

THE MODERATOR:  What about your game today was working?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I really kind of did everything pretty well.  I think I just missed two fairways, hit 18 greens.  Yeah, I was giving myself a lot of chances.

It was quite a nice day.

THE MODERATOR:  Do you know how many putts you had today?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  How many birdies did I have?  Must have had 31 putts.

THE MODERATOR:  Questions.
Q.  Fifth here last year, good start this year, I think you were seventh a few years before that.  What is it about this course?  Is it just the excitement that it's a major or is there something about this course specifically that fits you?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think this course just kind of sets up pretty well for me.  I hit the ball quite high with my iron, so when the greens are a little firmer, I can still hit it quite high into the greens, get it to stop a little bit.

Just seems to fit my eye.  I just feel comfortable on the golf course.
Q.  It's been, what, two and a half years since the win in Hawaii.  Do you feel like there's a reason there hasn't been a second win in there at some point?  Are you comfortable with the way you're playing right now?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, I felt as though certainly last year I gave myself a few chances to win.  Just didn't quite do it on the last day.  But, yeah, I mean, I kind of feel I'm playing well.  If I can just keep putting myself in that position, hopefully one of these times I'll come away with another win.
Q.  When you have a good first round, is there a different mindset tomorrow?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I don't think so.  It's so early on really in the tournament, I think I just need to go out there and try and have another good round.  I don't think it's really till Sunday that you're kind of looking to see kind of where you are in the whole leaderboard.
Q.  Any difference between standing on the 1st hole normally of a tournament and standing on the 1st hole of a major, whether it's here or The Open?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, there's definitely a little bit more excitement about it.  I mean, there's more people around.  Yeah, I mean, you're probably a little bit more nervous in this than you are in a regular tournament.
Q.  Would you like to see the first major of the year come later in the year when you guys have a few tournaments under your belt?  It seems a bit odd that you kind of have to start right out of the gate or pretty close to it with a major.  What's the feeling kind of coming in, if you're ready to have a major test?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, I think the timing, like mid March is fine.  I think everyone would probably maybe like a couple more tournaments maybe in February just to give us a little bit more of a run into it.

But hopefully in the next couple years, we'll pick up another couple of tournaments to have before this.
Q.  (No microphone.)
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think having a major the third week in March is fine.  I think if we could maybe have a couple tournaments in February, that would be great.
Q.  What is it like to look up at the leaderboard and see somebody who is 17, and know that the 14-year-old is out there someplace, too, lurking around?  Are you amazed that these players can do this at these ages?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yes.  I mean, Michelle and Aree have done well here in the past.  It is amazing they can play so well at a young age.  Yeah, I mean, I must say I don't really think of her that she's 17.  Just another good player out there you've got to try and beat.
Q.  Annika said she was going to try to achieve the Grand Slam this year.  Does that make you and the other players even more competitive not to hand it to her on a silver plate?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, definitely.  I think if you can try and beat Annika in every tournament, you're going to win a few.  Yeah, she's No. 1.  She's the one everyone is kind of aiming to beat.  Yeah, I think everyone is certainly trying to win a major.
Q.  Did it surprise you that she announced it?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I don't think so.  I mean, that's her goal.  If anyone can do it, Annika probably could.  But everyone else will be trying their hardest to stop her from doing it.

THE MODERATOR:  Can we go over your score card real quick.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I birdied the 1st.  I hit 9-iron into 15 feet and holed that one.

Birdied the 2nd.  I was just kind of a little chip-and-run to about a couple of inches and tapped that in.

On 3, I hit an 8-iron into probably 15 feet, and birdied that one.

Then on 8, I hit 6-iron into probably 15 feet again and holed that for birdie.

And then 13, I hit a little 9-iron to about six feet and holed that one.

THE MODERATOR:  Did you have any great up-and-downs for par today?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No.  I hit all the greens, so didn't need to do that (laughter).
Q.  Playing the Back 9, the course gets a lot more difficult on the Back 9.  Can you talk about that?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, I gave myself a lot of chances on the Back 9.  Unfortunately, I missed the fairway on 11, so couldn't go for it in two.  12, I probably missed a six-, seven-foot putt for birdie.

If you can keep it on the fairway on the Back 9, you're not having that long a club into some of the holes.  I think the key is to hit the fairways, and that gives you a chance of getting it on the greens.

THE MODERATOR:  All right.  Thank you.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Thanks, very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT