THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 14, 2003
Catriona Matthew
Catrin Nilsmark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Catriona, let me start with you.  How does it feel to sink the winning putt?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Just unbelievable.  I was just so nervous coming down that last hole.  I knew it was kind of down to my game and I was trying to hit the green.


Q.  Did it help that the Europeans got off to a pretty solid start anyway?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah.  I think obviously the first few matches winning just made it a lot easier for the rest of us.


Q.  What were you feeling when you went down earlier in your match by a couple of holes?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I knew I'd been playing well this week, so I would just kind of hang in there and hope to hole a few putts and get back into it.


Q.  You and Janice have done Scotland proud.  This woman has done Sweden proud this week.  Catrin, big smile from you.  Could you have asked for any more?

CATRIN NILSMARK:  Absolutely not.  It's a fantastic day.  It's been a fantastic week.  I'm so happy.  I just got a big hug from Patty.  She said it was a fantastic cup.  She said everybody has been really classy.  That was important.  I think everybody is a winner right now.


Q.  That must be the best pain killer in the business, isn't it? 

CATRIN NILSMARK:   Oh, yeah.  I'm going to throw in my crutches here.


Q.  What about the way that the galleries have turned out, the way they've supported your European team?

CATRIN NILSMARK:   Well, I'm proud of Sweden.  They've been fantastic.  And that's really what we hoped for the week to lift us for this victory.


Q.  I know you gave the team a little riddle earlier in the week.  Did anyone solve it or did  --

CATRIN NILSMARK:   It was just okay to win this golf cup.  The word is okay.


Q.  The Swedish sense of humor.  What would be your highlight, your one particular memory of this week? 

CATRIN NILSMARK:   Oh, I don't know yet.  It's been so wonderful all along.  I think yesterday taking a point, Suzann's putt yesterday on 18 will probably stick out a little bit in my mind.


Q.  It's been a very special week for all of us.  Well done. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT