LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2003
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Good day out there.  I know you had a couple bogeys coming down the stretch you would like to have back.  Can you talk about your round in general?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yes, I thought I played really well today, hit a lot of fairways, greens, obviously a couple of 3-putts there, but overall very pleased and glad to be in the lead.

Q.  How do you feel about the lead going into tomorrow with so many birdies out there?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Obviously, there is so many good players two or three shots behind, so I will have to go on.  I reckon if I can shoot 5 or 6 under, I should be able to hold on.

Q.  Do you remember the last time you had the lead going into the final round?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think in Las Vegas this year.

Q.  It seemed that the rain didn't bother your game at all today.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, we were actually quite lucky.  We only had rain for the first three holes, and it was pretty light at that.  We got the better end of the draw.

Q.  Did the rain made the greens hold better so that you could be more aggressive out there?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean it certainly made the greens a little softer.  They're still well reachable.  It didn't affect it too much.

Q.  Can you talk about faltering down the stretch and the ones that got away?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, on 15, the par 3, I had a good shot in, about 15 feet.  Actually I had a good second putt there and just didn't break, missed it.  Just a bad putt on 16.  It's one of these things.  Hopefully I got rid of them today.

Q.  What was going through your mind on 17 after you had three-putted the last two holes?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I was wanting to get a birdie.  I was in quite close.  It certainly wasn't going to be racing at all.  It kind of crept in.  It kind of got me back together.

Q.  One of the keys on this golf course has been your success on the par-fives, so that must have given you a boost today.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, I played the par 5s well all week so far.  I think that's probably been the key to my low scores.  You have to get off to a good start when you first the play five holes.  I think that's where in the past I haven't birdied the par 5s enough.

Q.  Can you talk about momentum a little bit since you gave a little bit back today?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, I think so.  I think I've got a 2-shot lead.  That's great going into tomorrow.  I'm pleased with how I'm playing and looking forward to going tomorrow.

Q.  It must give you a shot of confidence since you came into today with a share of the lead and you were able to hold on today.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yes, well, it certainly gives me two shots, so that always helps.

Q.  How'd you end up in Las Vegas?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think I maybe ended up about 6.  Last day, I think I shot 1 over.

Q.  Did you and Lorie talk much about the round today?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Maybe not much about it in general, but we chatted about other things.

Q.  There are a lot of veterans atop the leader board.  Is there anything to be said about that?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I really don't know why there is so many veteran players, as you call them, up at the top.  Maybe they have been watching the men, seeing all the older players there playing well.

Q.  Did the greens stay consistent throughout the day?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I thought they were pretty consistent all day. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT