LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2003
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Can you talk about your great day out there?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yes, I played really well today.  I had a lot of chances, missed a few, so it's probably all evened out now.  I hopefully had a good enough score before the weather comes in.

Q.  Are you glad to be finished now?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yes, the forecast certainly isn't great.

Q.  So, 64 today?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yes.

Q.  One off the tournament record?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, I had a good chance there in 18, but not to be.

Q.  Any part of your game that was just clicking today?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I've put pretty well the last two days, and that helps, but really overall I played pretty well.

Q.  The weather looks ugly tomorrow.  Are you a player who has an advantage playing in the rain?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I don't know.  I mean, I've played over here now for nine years.  When I go home, I don't really play, because the weather is too bad.  Maybe I'm getting soft.  I don't think anyone really enjoys playing that much in the rain.  It makes it kind of hard just a bit.  Hopefully they may have got it wrong.

Q.  You haven't skipped any events this year yet.  How are you holding up?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, just the way the schedule's worked out this year, we have had four weeks and then a week off.  So, there is kind of a natural break in there.  I never normally play more than four in a row.  It's just worked out well the way it's planned this year.

Q.  I'm sure it's easier since you've been playing well and making cuts?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, obviously if you're missing cuts and things.

Q.  Is there anything about what Annika is doing that has inspired you?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think it definitely kind of inspired me a little bit.  I watched some yesterday morning, and to see her play so well on a course like that kind of makes you feel, if you come out here, you should be kind of shooting pretty low to see how good she's shooting there.

Q.  Has it inspired you to take any chances like that?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: No, I mean, I don't think I would want to play in a men's event.  Is that what you're asking? 

Q.  Why?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: She No. 1 in the world.  It means she's better than me.  I really don't think I'm good enough at the moment.

Q.  When's the last time you've put two great rounds like this together back-to-back?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I don't know.  I don't know if I've ever been this far under after two rounds.

Q.  Was there any point today when you knew you were going to have a good day?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean I held a good eagle putt on 12, and of on 13, you're just hoping to make par.  And so, when that happens, you kind of think it's your day maybe.

Q.  Is it easier to play near the top on the weekend since you've been up there before and have confidence?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yes, I think it's easier to know you have been up there before.  It does make it a little bit easier.  The more times you're up there, the more you get used to it.

Q.  Why is that?  Confidence?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think you just get used to how it's going to feel when you're in that last group.  You kind of get used to the pressure, I think.

Q.  Did you learn anything from finishing second in Quebec last year at the Bank of Montreal event?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, I think you always learn.  Yes, obviously, I had a couple quick swings which cost me.  I kind of had to double on the back 14 or something.  The main key is to keep it slow.  I tend to get a little quick sometimes.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT