NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 30, 2000
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I think I had 248 to the hole.  I hit 3-wood to about three feet.  So that was a nice way to get the round going.  And then I made a sand save on 5 and that was the only green I missed.  6, I had 3-wood just down to the side of the green chipped   and holed the putt.

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  It was probably about eight feet.  13, yeah, I had a sand iron on to probably 15 feet and holed that one.  And on 17, hit 9-iron.  I just about spun it back in the hole just about a foot.  And then 18, just a little 8-iron to 10, 12 feet and holed that one. 

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   No, I think I just missed one green, actually, the fifth, and got it in the bunker and  got it up-and-down.  Holed probably an 8-footer for par.  I really played pretty well.  Gave myself a lot of chances and didn't really get into too much trouble. 


Q.  From where you started today and all of the people that were close to the lead and all of the people that you jumped over, what were you thinking of?  Were you thinking of getting this close or what?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I was just going out there hoping for  -- to have another good driving day, another 68, 67 and I reckon would give me a chance as long as one of the leaders didn't shoot 65 or something today.  I mean, as long as you're within three or four shots, I think you'll have a chance tomorrow. 


Q.  Talking about chances, you've given yourself a lot of chances to win now.  Do you feel like you're ready? 

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yes.  I mean, I feel that I'm playing well this week.  I really haven't holed a lot of putts.  That was really one of the few putts that I actually holed, and so if I can just get a few more putts in tomorrow and keep hitting in close, you never know.  I think the more times you're up there, I think one of these times, you're going to come out on top. 


Q.  What would you say has been your downfall?  Why haven't you broken through? 

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I would say probably my putting.  I really probably don't hole enough putts.  You know, just some key putts for bogey I kind of missed, and I give myself a lot much chances and don't take advantage of them at times.


Q.  With the course drying out through the round, are you going to be a little more aggressive, or are you going to be laying back a little bit because you'll be getting more roll off the tee? 

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I think probably just keep hitting driver on the holes I've been hitting driver.  Basically most of the holes I've been hitting driver, maybe 12  -- a couple of ones, I think I hit a 3-wood.  But I think just keep the same. 


Q.  Today there were a ton of birdies on the leaderboard, and there was an infrequent double-bogey here and there and a few bogeys.  Was it a pretty easy scoring day, and where did you get into trouble out there, that obviously some people did? 

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I think probably 12 and 13.  I think I doubled them the first day, both of them  -- obviously getting into trouble on them.  I think if you hit it in the rough, you really kind of  -- it's thicker than it looks.  You're maybe struggling to get at the green.  And I think obviously 12, 13, maybe 14 with the water, you can kind of have a double quite quickly. 


Q.  But by and large, was today a pretty easy scoring day?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I would say so.  There wasn't much wind.  The course is drying out.  Yeah, it was quite an easy scoring day.  As easy as they come. 


Q.  Annika said earlier this week when she was asked about the Solheim Cup picks that she was shocked and there's two people who should have been on the team that aren't, and we've pretty well figured out that she was talking about her sister and you.  What was your reaction and feelings about not getting a wild card?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Obviously, I was very disappointed.  I thought I had played well over the two years to get in.  I mean, I think when you're relying on a wild card pick, this is one of these things where it's up to the captain, and obviously she didn't think I was one of her picks. 


Q.  Is it even more disappointing because it is in Scotland? 

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I think so.  I think obviously maybe a few people going for the last couple of shots, and I think with me being in Scotland, it might give me an added edge of getting one of the picks.


Q.  Has this proved any motivation this week to maybe say, "Look what you're missing out on"? 

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I mean, obviously, yeah.  I don't think I really need to prove anything.  I've played well all the last two years.  Obviously just not well enough for Dale's reckoning.  But obviously to win would be great.  I don't feel as I'm going to have to go out there and prove to Dale that I should have been in it. 


Q.  Probably like Charlotta, you were upset more that she didn't even call you?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I think the fact that she's never even contacted you was the worst thing about it, really.  Everyone knew who the few people were in for a chance.  I mean, two or three phone calls wouldn't have been too hard for her to make.  I mean, I think Pat has approached it just in a much better way.  She obviously called the people she wasn't going to pick.  I mean, obviously, there's some people who are not going to get picked and they are going to be disappointed, and I think they are worthy of a phone call.


Q.  Do you have any ideas how the criteria should change?  Do you have any suggestions you've primarily played here.  How many events did you play in Europe? 

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I probably only played about six events in Europe.  And so I probably was struggling, really to get in from the automatic pick there.  I think the best way to change it would be just to give Top-10s for wherever you get them in the world and still just have the minimum number of events you've got to play in Europe to be eligible. 


Q.  The weather has been pretty consistent the first three days, cool mornings and windless, sunny afternoons.  If tomorrow is the same day as today, do you think it is going to take another 67, 66 to win this tournament, with all of the people that are up near the lead?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, would I think so.  Obviously I don't know quite what Brandie and Annika are going to finish on, but they are probably going to be at least two or three ahead of me; so I reckon I'm going to have to shoot 67, 66. 


Q.  Will you even go next week?  I know you're going to go home to Scotland, but do you venture  --

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   No. 


Q.  Hard to take? 

CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I just really have no interest in going. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT