DU MAURIER CLASSIC
July 31, 1999
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I don't know whether Laura birdied the last there, but probably two behind.  Hit a bad drive off the first, kind of pushed it out to the right.  Then just managed to hack it down just to the front of the green and then hit a great chip, chipped in for a birdie. That was a good start for the day. 
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Front of the green, maybe 30 feet.  3, hit 7-wood just right to the back of the green and left myself, well, probably about 40-foot putt back down to the front of the green.  Hit it to about ten feet, then holed that one for birdie again.  Then on 4, I pulled my drive a bit just in the rough, tried to hit 7-wood out; just came up short to the green and chipped to probably about eight feet, just missed the putt.  Then just had regulation pars until 10 where I hit a good drive, then just a little 8-iron to about a foot, holed that for birdie.  Then 12, hit two good shots just short of the green, probably about 40 yards short of the green; just tried to get kind of too cute with the third shot, left it just short of the green. Then hit a good chip, just missed to about probably two and a half feet, then just pushed the putter.  Then 14, again I kind of pulled my drive a little bit. Good shot into the green just going for the middle of the grown, it just ran off to the right a little bit; left myself a long 2-putt.  Kind of putt -- the first one, eight feet past.  Next one thought I holed it.  Just lipped out.  16, 17 I had two good 2-putts for par, and then 18 just a regulation par.  I had a chance to go for the green and just kind of thinned my 3-wood and came up short into the rough.  Hit on and left myself probably a 15-footer which I missed for birdie. 
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  14, 5-iron. 
 

Q.  Overall general characterization of your round.
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I didn't play as well today.  I think I got a little quick with my swing.  So I am pleased really that I held it together and got around even par.  So hopefully need to keep it a little slower and smoother tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Look at the leaderboard at all; nobody is really moving anywhere?
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, no one really did that much today.  Karrie must have had a good score.  No one really got away from her, probably one or two back. 
 

Q.  Did that do anything to your mindset that you are holding it together, but nobody is pulling away from you?
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I was looking at the board.  No  one was shooting anything really low.  I knew if I could get it around about par, 1-under, I was going to have a chance. 
 

Q.  A little disappointed maybe with a couple of your holes today?
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, obviously the bogey on 12 was pretty bad.  You are looking at 4 there; you are losing probably a shot and a half in the field there.  But I mean, I had two good 2-putts on 16, 17.  I suppose it probably evens out a little. 
 

Q.  In a major, have you been this close before?
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  No, not this close going into the last round. 
 

Q.  What do you think you will be thinking about tonight and tomorrow?
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think I will just need to try and keep it a bit slower.  I think I got a little nervous and a little quick.  If I can just keep the ball in play and try and give myself some chances. 
 

Q.  Karrie Webb didn't like the cold and the rain.  Bother you at all?
 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:  It wasn't very nice to start with. But the back nine there was fine.  Nice summer's day in Scotland. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT