DU MAURIER CLASSIC
July 30, 1999
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Started on 10, just parred the first two, kind of regulation pars.  Then 12, I hit 3-wood just short to the green, pitch-and-run to about five feet; holed that for birdie.  Then 13, hit a good drive, then just kind of didn't quite catch my 8-iron, came up short of the slope.  Then misread the next putt.  Left it kind of ten feet tight to the right, then missed the par-putt.  Then 14, had a 6-iron into the green.  Just pulled it a bit into the left green-side bunker.  Didn't really have a chance of getting it close.  Hit it probably to ten feet; just missed that for par.  Then 16, hit sand iron into probably ten feet; holed that for birdie.  18, hit 4-wood just kind of on the front edge of the green, and just lipped out with a chip; and holed the next one for birdie.  Then 3, hit sand iron into ten feet; holed that, on 1, sorry.  Then 3, 4-iron to about three feet, and holed that for eagle.  Then on 4, I just kind of caught 5-iron a bit thin and just came up front of the green, and then didn't hit a very good chip, just kind of passed the hole; missed the putt for par.  Then 8, yeah, 4-iron in there.  Just tried to hit it a bit too hard to get it back up the slope, just pulled it a bit. Then hit a good chip to about five feet.  Actually thought I holed the putt.  Just missed on the right.  Then parred the 9th.


Q.  When the weather got nasty, were you thinking:  Oh good, I know how to play in this?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Not really, no.


Q.  Seemed like when it started raining; you made the turn, birdied 1?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah.  1 was the only one we really had the rain on.  It was quite heavy.  Looked as though it was set in for the day.  Luckily, by the time we got to the second, it was going off.  Just kind of had a bit of everything out there today.


Q.  How do you feel about your position?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I am quite happy, yeah.  I mean I am pleased to be where I am.  Quite nice probably just to be a shot back rather than in the lead.


Q.  Rather not be leading?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Well, obviously I'd rather be leading, but I am quite happy where I am.


Q.  What worked for you today?  What did you struggle with?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Probably pulled a couple of shots just there in the back 9.  Apart from that, really hit the ball solid all day, putted well.  Couple of putts, which I thought were in,  just missed.  So probably just pulled a couple of drives and a couple of irons on my back 9 there.


Q.  I am sorry, I missed that.  Did you say that the rain did or didn't hamper you at all?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  We only had the rain on the one hole on, well, on our 10th hole, the first hole.


Q.  Did that change things?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I birdied that hole, really wasn't too bad.  It wasn't long enough to soften up the greens really or anything.


Q.  Is that what the greens need right now?  Are you hoping it will rain tonight?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  It would be nice, yeah.  They are getting pretty firm.  You just need to make sure you are on the fairway to give yourself a chance of stopping it on the greens.


Q.  Seemed softer today than yesterday, were they?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I didn't really notice that, no.


Q.  Anything you feel you need to improve tomorrow?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Probably just to hole a few more putts.  I gave myself a lot of chances; just maybe try and make a few more.


Q.  Did you watch the leaderboard today?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, I knew where I was, yeah.


Q.  When you got it to 8-under, which would have been the lead, you what were you thinking at that point, just --

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Just really try and keep hitting the greens.  I was coming up 4, it was tough hole; I was hoping to make par on that one.  Then I was just really trying to give myself birdie chances.


Q.  Any surprises so far?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Not really, no.  Probably the eagles. I don't normally have eagles so usually -- I am using a new driver this week which I think is giving me a bit more distance.


Q.  What were you using?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  FireSole head, just a different shaft.  Getting a lot more run with the ball.


Q.  That must come in handy out here where there are 5 par 5s?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, that has probably been the key to my first two rounds - I have played the par 5s all really well.  I mean, 18, I really didn't think I had a chance of reaching all week and just maybe got it -- the wind was just going the right way and hit probably my best drive of the day and gave myself a chance of getting there.


Q.  You are always very calm.  At what stage might you start getting excited?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I was pretty nervous out there. Obviously when you are out there in the lead you are going to be a bit nervous.


Q.  Where does that manifest itself to you because it is not noticeable to the rest of us?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think it is noticeable to me.  I  think you are going to make some bogeys out there because the rough is kind of so thick.  You have just got to accept that and try and make some birdies when you got the chance.


Q.  Graham keeping you calm?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  He is pretty good, yeah.  He helps.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT