DU MAURIER CLASSIC
July 29, 1999
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Actually hit a good shot into the first to about three feet; missed birdie there.  Then really just hit the greens, 2-putted until 7, hit a 9-iron into about ten feet; and holed that for birdie.  Then missed probably about a 10-footer on 9 for birdie just left it a bit short.  Then on 10 made a good up-and-down my second shot, just went through the back of the green and chipped to about five feet and holed.  Then 11, pushed my tee shot a bit just down in the right, and chipped up and holed probably an 8-footer for par.  Then on 12, hit a good drive, then I had about 239 to the hole kind of actually kind of nobbled my 3-wood a bit kept running, running; ran to about eight feet.  Holed that for eagle.  Then 14, I hit 7-iron in to probably 30 feet, holed that for birdie.  Then made a good par on 17, drove it into the rough, then kind of played up just short of the green and chipped on, holed about a 5-footer for par.

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, very pleased with how I played. Really steady.  Didn't -- missed maybe about two fairways; kept out of the rough, which I think you have got to do.


Q.  How is the course playing?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think the course is playing pretty tricky.  Obviously, I hit most of the fairways, obviously that helped.  If you go in the rough, you really are struggling to hit the greens, and the greens are so firm that if you are not on the fairway it is pretty tough.


Q.  Where did you miss the fairway?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I missed the fairway on 10 and then on 17.  Into the thick rough on each time.


Q.  10, you said you had good up-and-down.  Did you have a chance?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Hit a good second shot, good wedge, good shot; landed at the front, shot right through to the back into the rough, just chipped down.


Q.  How did you find the wind today?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Really wasn't that bad.  It was maybe kind of came and went.  There were a few holes that were maybe a little gusty; really wasn't much of a factor.


Q.  Just starting earlier in the day, do you like getting going earlier posting a score?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I like playing the first rounds early.  If you can get a good round in, kind of just helps you keep going.  It is a little easier in the morning.  Greens are a  little bit better.


Q.  Par 5s are a real key for playing this course?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I think so.  Certainly the third is reachable, probably for most of the field and then maybe -- is it 5 -- on the front 9?  5 is maybe reachable depending on the wind there.  But I think you have got to try make a birdie on 3. Then the other two are just kind of -- they are 3-shot holes certainly for me.


Q.  Seems like the back nine is playing tougher than the front nine.  Is that --

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I think the two par 3s on the front -- on the back -- oh, no.  Actually thought the front 9 played a little harder, to be quite honest.  I thought the two par 3s on that 9 were both pretty tough.  The 3rd hole -- 4th hole is a tough one.


Q.  Feel like this course is set up well for you coming in?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Well, I really played so badly last week that I didn't quite know what to expect.  I think if you can keep it straight, yeah.  I am usually fairly straight, so....


Q.  You struggled lately.  Was there any indication that you felt that your game was going to come around today?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I played really well yesterday and played well in the practice rounds so I knew I was hitting the ball well.  Just pleased to shoot a good score.


Q.  How many events have you played in Europe this year?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Just one.  Just the Evian.


Q.  How did you do there?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I think I was about 21st or something like that.

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yes.


Q.  How would you describe your season as a whole?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I am really pretty pleased.  I got off to a really good start and maybe the last kind of month I haven't played that well, but overall I am pleased with how my season has gone.


Q.  What was the change today from over the last month?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  I don't know, maybe it is a little cooler; didn't like the heat the last two weeks.  I don't know, I was swinging a lot better, just today the last kind of two or three days.


Q.  Graham is still on your bag?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah.


Q.  Still working well?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah.  As long as I have a good week. Can't have too many bad weeks.


Q.  You have had first round scores in other majors this year, 64 at the Open, 64 at the LPGA, and 65 or 6 or so at Nabisco, does this feel like a more -- a setup that is more appropriate for --

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I do.  I think, as I said, it is tough.  If you go in the rough, you will be struggling to make par, so I think it is just whoever hits it straight and you have  got to hit good iron shots.  The greens, you have got to really be in the right places or else you can have some pretty tough putts.


Q.  Pretty big greens?

CATRIONA MATTHEW:  Yeah, I mean, some of them are pretty big.  If your pin is kind of tucked in, there is kind of a small area you are aiming at.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT