U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 1999
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CATRIONA MATTHEW: The course played -- the course played real soft. The wind really
kind of softened up the fairways and things. The greens probably were not as hard and fast
as maybe they were hoping to have them today. That was really the main difference from the
practice run yesterday.

CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I was very pleased to play in the morning. Obviously, it was
slightly cooler. Not quite used to this heat. It's always nice to go out on the first day
and hopefully try and have a good round.

Q. Could you just give us a little history of how you tend to do in majors and why you
think you played so well today?

CATRIONA MATTHEW: The Dinah Shore, I've usually played pretty well in. I think I've
been in the Top-10 there this year. I usually play well at the du Maurier as well. I see
good results there. The Open, I think a couple of good finishes. I missed the cut last
year, so I do tend to play probably better on the harder golf courses.

Q. Why do you think -- why did you play so well today? Has your season just in general
been better this year?

CATRIONA MATTHEW: I've played well this year, had some good finishes and quite up there
on the money list; so I was confident coming into this week to be playing well.

Q. I don't know why, I seem to have been around you most of the early part of the week,
and I don't think that I've ever seen you so relaxed before a big golf tournament or a
tournament, and especially a championship. Any particular reason? Or do you just feel that
good?

CATRIONA MATTHEW: No particular reason. Obviously, I'm really trying harder to relax
this week, because you do probably tend to be a little bit more nervous. Nervous on the
first tee, but I birdied the first, so that got me off to a good start.

Q. How did you putt today?

CATRIONA MATTHEW: I putted well. I holed -- I holed a short birdie putt on the 1st, and
a short one on the third, the other one I birdied. And then holed two good probably on 8-
to 10-footers for par on 4 and 11, which has probably kept my round together. Putted it
very well on the whole.

CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think it's in as good of shape. I don't think it's probably quite
as hard. Certainly, I thought Pine Needles was the toughest one I played, probably last
year at Blackwolf Run. Not quite as hard as those, but I think it's a good layout.

Q. Foreign-born players have a recent history of doing well in this tournament. Do you
have any theories why that might be? Do you think that might be give you a little
confidence to move you ahead the next three days?

CATRIONA MATTHEW: Not really. I haven't really thought of that too much. Just try to go
out and play the course.

Q. Is this a pace that you can keep up for the next three days?

CATRIONA MATTHEW: I certainly hope. So I don't see why not. I'm playing well. I just
need to go out there and dot same thing again. 

Q. I haven't played the course. What are the keys to playing well and putting in a good
score on this course?

CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think you've got to play the shorter par 4s. I think you've got to
get it in close there and make some birdies on those. There's a few longer 4s where the
chances are you're going to make a bogey somewhere; so, I think you've got to take
advantage of the shorter par 4s and make some birdies there.

Q. What do you think about the 3-under? Do you think that will stand up the rest of the
day? Do you think anybody will come in above that? What do you think of the 3-under total
on this course?

CATRIONA MATTHEW: I must say somebody will probably come in lower than that, maybe
four-or five.

CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I hit a wedge probably to about four feet and holed that. And
on 3, I had just a little 6-iron into four feet again. And then on 12, I hit a 7-iron into
probably 18, 20 feet.

CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah. As I say, I holed a good putt on 4 or par, probably about a
10-footer. And then made up-and-down on the bunker on 8. Put a sand shot to about three
feet. And then on 11, I probably again holed about a 10-footer for par there, and then the
rest were just kind of 2-putt pars.

CATRIONA MATTHEW: I was in the rough on the third and, it really was not a factor. I
was hitting well.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT