ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 26, 2018
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Three birdies, one bogey, quite a clean scorecard for today's conditions.  Talk us through it?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I played really well.  It was quite windy for our first nine and dropped and it's just picked up there a little again.  I was pleased with how I played, with the wind and the bumpiness, it's tough to get the ball close.  Just missed the green on the third, the short par 3 and didn't get up-and-down. Apart from that, played well.
Q. There's a few stories of big drives and bounces and bunkers they couldn't get driver to.  Did you have any instances like that out there today?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I got pretty close to the one on 6 down the hill.  My 2-iron ran a bit further than I thought but no, we managed to judge it.
Q. There was a great picture of you teeing off today and a huge crowd.  How was that, playing in front of the home fans?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: That was great, actually.  My two daughters were there.  It's not often they get to see me play.  They got to see one shot -- I don't know how much they walked around.
Q. Were you pleased with your round?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, pretty pleased.  I thought it was pretty breezy at times out there.  Dropped a little and just picked up again now.  Yeah, overall, fairly pleased.
Q. So an unusual wind, as well, is it not, coming from the west?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: No, I'd say this is the prevailing wind.
Q. What were you particularly happy with, if anything?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I thought, you know, off the tee, I thought I drove it well or picked the right clubs off the tee.  I don't think I was in a fairway bunker.  That's pretty important in links golf.
Q. Did you have any long ones?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I had a few pretty long ones out there.  Once they start going, they keep going in.
Q. What was the best one from the day?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I had a pretty good 1-down 10.  Yeah, that was probably my best one, 10 and then 12.
Q. The clubs off the tee, what did they range?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: 6-iron to a drive.
Q. 6-iron off what tee?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Fifth.
Q. What did you feel on that first tee?  Was that a tougher one?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: It's great, actually.  Obviously probably a little bit more nervous than a normal, regular event, but with it being at home, it was nice.  It was nice to see them out there and girls were watching, so it was nice.
You don't want to shoot yourself out of it, so nice to get off to a decent start.
Q. You're obviously an experienced links player.  When you see the conditions calming and wind getting up, and you see the numbers posted early on, does that affect you nowadays or do you play your own game?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: You just have to accept that's links golf.  We probably had seven holes where there really was no wind.  Our first nine it was pretty windy and on 10 it seemed to disappear, and probably just when we were on 17 green, it just picked up again.  See what tomorrow brings.  You never know here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT