KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY GEICO
May 20, 2018
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Finished your second round at 7-under Sunday morning.  Obviously playing very well.  What has been key to your two rounds so far?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: You know, I think I've driven the ball well, and obviously the course is wet now so the rough is wet.  Just kind of keep it on the fairway, then get to lift, clean, and place, which makes the second shot out in soggy conditions a lot easier.   
 Q.  How did you handle the last 24 hours?  Yesterday no golf.  How do you handle 24 hours like that?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: It's actually been pretty good for me because I qualified for the Open on Monday in London, and then had a travel nightmare and didn't get here until Wednesday.  I've just been catching up on some sleep.   
 Q.  Yeah, what was that?  Monday qualify, don't get here until Wednesday, no practice rounds.  Obviously you've played at the River Course before, but what was that all like?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I mean, obviously played here a lot before.  I think that's maybe where experience helps you.  Yeah, I wasn't too bothered, to be honest.   
I think my caddie said it had been playing hard and fast, so didn't really didn't need much of a practice round.   
So, yeah, it was fine.  I was hitting the ball well in the qualifier, so that was kind of all that mattered.   
 Q.  No bogeys, 36 holes here.  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Now that's kiss of death.   
 Q.  So, yeah, how have you been able to do that?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Like I said I've driven it well.  I've hit two good up and downs.  Apart from that, I've hit a lot of greens, hit a lot of fairways.   
So it's been - you hate to say fairly easy - but a fairly easy.   
 Q.  What's the thought on U.S. Open and qualifying.  It'll be your 23rd.  How proud are you?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, very proud.  You know, I've been exempt -- well, qualified for the last 23; I didn't play in one because was pregnant.   
Yeah, I mean, it's probably one of the biggest - I mean, obviously apart from the British; for me the British is the biggest tournament in women's golf.  Great to be here.   
 Q.  I know it's still a year away, but you already think about Solheim Cup or not yet?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it's always there in the back of your mind.  You're always kind of thinking about it and watching players.   
It's early days, but it's always there.   
 Q.  Lastly, what would you do now before the final round?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Probably just go back to where I'm staying and have another little rest.  I'm good at that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT