AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2020
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Thoughts on two really good days work?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   It was a lot tougher out there actually, a lot tougher today.  It was just a crosswind today, so downwind played as tough coming as going out, actually.  I didn't hit it great to be fair.  Made some quite miraculous up-and-downs.
Q. A couple around the turn, how important were they to keep you going?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, just keep me going.  You know at that point, 10, 11, they are all tough drives coming in with that wind off the left, kind of a horrible wind for me.
Yeah, it was just you have to hang in on the back nine, as well.  There were no real birdie chances.
Q. Were you sort of tested at the last to finish nice?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   That was kind of amazing, because I was just about half-plugged in the riveted face at the side, a nice little up-and-down, yes.
Q. You're only six off the lead at the halfway stage, that's a good position to be in.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, really quite happy with how I'm playing.  To be playing the weekend is good.  Yeah, just try and swing a little better.  Wasn't really committing to my shots and was tough in that wind.  It's pretty brutal out there.
Q. You said you felt it was harder today than yesterday?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   The front nine was still tough because it was a crosswind but then you didn't get the advantage of it being downwind coming in.  It was tough -- both nines were as tough to be honest.
Q. And you played through about three or four different seasons of weather?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I think everyone did to be fair.
Q. All in all, if you had taken this at the start?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Oh, I'd probably have taken it to be honest, yeah.
Q. The last time the cut is as high as it's likely to be was in 2009?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Surge at the weekend then.
Q. Do you feel like going into tomorrow, you'll still feeling really good about your game?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, as I say it wasn't great today but I made some good up-and-downs.  It wasn't a million miles away.  I think just lost a little bit of confidence and just can't committing to the shots enough, which you have to do in the wind.  The crosswinds are the toughest.  It's easier going in or down.
Q. One player in the moment at red figures.  What does that say about the course and the conditions?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   It was both, really, the conditions, it's a fair golf course, it's a good golf course, but just shows that a links golf in the wind is not easy.
Q. And tough as it's been, everyone's been extremely positive about the conditions, the setup, not gratuitously, but saying --  it's hideously tough but very fair.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, if you miss greens, you've got a chance to get up-and-down.  They have kept them soft-ish with the rain.
Q. As cleverly setup as it could be to manage the weather conditions?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, yeah.  Absolutely.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT