SOLHEIM CUP
August 19, 2017
Karine Icher
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Catriona, describe the enormity of that point?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think that was a huge point.  We certainly didn't want to lose another session.  Ideally we wanted to win that session, but to come out with a draw, hopefully we can come out all guns blazing this afternoon and get more points.   
 Q.  Karine, you saw right at the top of the board, matches 1 and 2, 3 and 4 were going to the Europeans way.  Just how significant could those two final points be for the Europeans?  
KARINE ICHER: Those two points were much needed for sure.  So now we have to keep going and try our best.  There's a lot of golf left.  So we're going to try as much as we can.   
 Q.  You were unbeaten yesterday in the foursomes and again today.  Is the partnership working?  Why do you two work so well?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: We don't want to give away our secrets, do we?  I think we're both pretty similar personalities.  (Indiscernible) the older ones on the team, but we both play a similar game, similar personalities.  I think it just works.   
 Q.  Karine, how important is that experience?  Do you feel the two of you have played Solheim Cups before, you've been there, you've done it, you know what's needed.  How much is that experience coming through at this point?  
KARINE ICHER: Especially for a Solheim Cup you need experience.  That's a big factor.  No matter how you play, you need experience.  I think (inaudible) and Beany (indiscernible), and it's very important that you know you can tell from your partner.  We don't have to talk much.  We're a good pair.   
 Q.  What was the message heading out, watching the way the Americans played late yesterday in the afternoon session?  All red on the board.  What was the talk for you guys heading out this morning?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Obviously just to go out and win as many points as we could.  There was a combination, they played really well yesterday, they holed the putts.  It was great for us today.  Obviously Danielle and Michelle played very well yesterday.  So that was a big start for us to beat them and hopefully get some momentum on our side.   
 Q.  Grabbing a quick bite to eat and then heading out this afternoon.  How much do you relish the opportunity now?  
KARINE ICHER: Now we have to play best ball so we have to play the full course.  So another challenge.   
 Q.  For you, quick rest up, quick bite to eat and then head out again?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, looking forward to it.  My good partner, got Georgia this afternoon.  She's been played really well.  Looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT