SOLHEIM CUP
August 18, 2017
Catriona Matthew
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Catriona, a few days ago you weren't even in the Solheim Cup as a player.  Now you're a player, and you've got a point on the board for Europe.  Describe how you feel.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Fantastic feeling.  Had a really good start.  Threw a few birdies up, and we just hung in there, and we made a couple of really good birdies on 13, 14, and you know we were a little fortunate there in the last, but we'll take it.
Q. It's all about momentum, isn't it, Karine?  You holed a few long putts, as Catriona said.  Describe momentum-wise how you felt that that round went for you?
KARINE ICHER: Exactly.  It was a tough game at the beginning; they gave nothing.  They played great.  They are both really, really good players.  So obviously it's not easy to beat them.  We're not the favorites.
But the door opened on the 13 and 14, and we took it, yeah.  It's a great feeling now.
Q. You took it, took it very well.  Catriona, how was it for you playing out there with the experience of being vice captain up until this point; was that helpful for you?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I don't know about that.  I think it's just -- I think I was shaking like a leaf on the first green.  I managed to hole a putt.  But I don't think it matters how many you've played in, you're still nervous.  But you soon settle down and get -- I had a great partner.
Q. How does it feel to get that first point on the board for Team Europe?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Fantastic.  We had a really good game.  It was always pretty tight.  They played really well on the front nine.  And we hung in, kept in there with them and made a couple of really good birdies and snuck in there at the end and beat them.
Q. What did you guys change up there?  They got off to the early lead.  What did you guys change to pull it back your way?
KARINE ICHER: We changed nothing.  We had pretty good shots, good putts.  She hit a fantastic shot on 13, a 5-wood.  It was not an easy shot.  And I made the putt behind.  And then the same on 14.  And it's tough, a tough day, tough game, tough match, and we did it.  So we can be proud.
Q. Catriona, well done.  If you flash back seven days to last Friday, could you have possibly envisaged standing in this position right now?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: No, absolutely not.  I was all set to be cheering them on and be cheering from the sidelines.  But, you know, obviously, I mean it was tough what happened to Suzann.  No one likes to see that.
But I stepped in and I had a good partner today.  And we played well.  I think we were under par, which is always good for foursomes.  But they played really well on the front nine and we kind of just stayed with them.  And then we threw in a few birdies and then maybe a little fortunate there in the last.  But you've got to take your chances.
Q. It always strikes me that the bottom match in any session is just so important.  We make a lot of fuss about the top match, but it's that bottom one, isn't it, that the whole session just hung on that final green?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, you just get the momentum perhaps going into the afternoon.  If Gerina had holed that putt, would have been a whole different -- we would have felt like we maybe lost half a point there.  So obviously we go in with some big momentum and it gets them fired up for this afternoon.
Q. How were your emotions out there?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: It was great fun.  I always enjoy, obviously super nervous at the start.  Like I said, I don't think it matters how many matches you've played in, still going to be nervous.  Got over them and got in the match.  And it was a good game and they played well.
Q. How important is it having seen so many of these for Europe, sort of just got their noses in the front in the morning session?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think I've seen over the years every half point is important.  And it's just that momentum, like I said.  If Gerina had holed, and if we fell a bit flat and bogeying the last, we would have felt we lost it.  So definitely going in much happier, with a spring in our step.
Q. (Off microphone)?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: It was difficult.  I found out just before I was going to play here, actually, that Suzann had hurt her back.  I was obviously hoping desperately she would get over that and be able to play.  Felt bad for her.  Great team member and been on, I think, every team with her just about.  She's a huge miss.  But great that she can be here and we've switched roles.
But, you just have to -- I suppose that's maybe where having played in a few, a bit more experience to deal with that kind of upheaval to the start of the week.
Q. Were you warned on Sunday or Saturday?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Just before I flew over on Sunday, Annika said that Suzann had -- but at that point we didn't know how bad it was.
Q. How did you like that sort of preparation?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: You just have to get on with it, don't you?  Obviously everyone was wanting Suzann to play and hoping her to get better.  I just had to kind of go about it and practice and be ready just in case she couldn't.  It's difficult, but you just have to get on with it, don't you?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT