OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. A little disappointed?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, a little bit disappointed. Had a lot of chances the last kind of five or six holes. Hit some good putts that just didn't go in. I guess overall, I'm still in it, so that's the main thing. Not too disappointed with that.   
   
 Q. Good comeback after the third hole, wasn't it.   
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it was a tricky pin and probably should have tried to not be quite so aggressive. Plugged in the bunker. Led to an easy double. Yeah, good birdies on 6 and 9 to kind of get back in it. I played really well from probably the sixth hole on actually.  
   
 Q. What do you think of the course and what are the keys to playing well around here?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think it's a really good course actually, good test. For me, I think it's if you drive the ball well. The fairways look wide but they play a little narrower than they look. You've just got to get it in the right spots, and obviously putt well. So drive well and putt well.  
   
 Q. Greens are tricky, too, aren't they?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: They are very good. You kind of know when you hit the putt just about whether it's going to go in or not.   
   
 Q. On 4, if you miss it left‑‑  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I actually managed to get up‑and‑down from there.   
   
 Q. As for the experience overall, obviously second off this morning, crowds haven't been big but sort of getting a bit bigger.   
CATRIONA MATTHEW: It's been great. It's a slightly different introduction to what we are used to. It great to be a little bit nervous there on the first tee but nice to get started actually.  
   
 Q. On the way around did you feel any different than a regular Tour event?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I don't think it feels any different. I think more probably come Sunday if you're in with a chance for a medal, it will feel different. But at the moment, it's just trying to get in position for Saturday.   
   
 Q. Justin put on such a great show. Do you feel any pressure, the women's competition in general, to match that excitement?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, certainly for Team GB, they are having a fantastic Olympics. That should hopefully spur us on.  
   
 Q. You look like you've really embraced the Olympic pin.   
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Still got a lot to get. Yeah, my whole thing coming here was may as well come here is come and embrace the whole thing and enjoy it, and it's been great. Loved it.   
   
 Q. Do you have time to see anything more now that the golf has started?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW: No, probably catch a few things on the TV now. It was quite exhausting getting the buses and things.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT