RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2016
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CATRIONA MATTHEW: Just a bit of a struggle, a couple of terrible 3-putts.  Not too bad a week.  Obviously pretty disappointed but not too bad.
Q. Some of the players were saying they felt the pins were a little bit more tucked and there was a wee bit more bounce out on the course?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, definitely I think the greens were firmer today.  The pins were tucked obviously the last two days, but the green firmness today -- made it tougher to get close.
Q. How special is it for to you have your husband on the bag when you're hunting down majors?  You've shared a lot of great experiences.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it's very special.  It's great fun when he can come out and caddie now.  He doesn't get to do it much.  Obviously I'm disappointed but it was great fun playing in front of the crowd and being in the last groups.
Q. Another top five finish.  That's got to be a good thing to carry with you as you now prepare for Rio.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I just need to move up about three places.
Q. When did you set off there?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I go down on Friday the 12th.  Probably watch a little bit at the weekend and then get ready on Monday.  We start on Wednesday.
Q. And Graham is on the bag?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: He is coming that week, yes.
Q. You put on a fight till the end, a hot start Saturday and today.  Has your result outweighed your expectations this week?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I suppose coming into the start of the week, a top five, I would be pretty pleased with.  But the position I was in, obviously disappointing finish, but take a lot from it.  Just go in there and hopefully get a few spots higher in Rio.
Q. What does it feel like, particularly on the back nine, when a girl who had a very big lead had a double-bogey and cut it back to one at one stage on the back nine?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Well, I was always just a little bit behind.  Ariya, I saw she had had the double.  But I was always just probably a little bit too far behind.
Q. Is this one of the best weeks you could have hoped for going into Rio?  You must feel like you're taking some pretty good form into Olympics.
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, very good.  It was a great field this week, so top five is good stuff and hopefully carry it on for a few more weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT