RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2016
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Three birdies in the first four holes and you were right up there as co-leader.  Assess the early part of the round and the contrast?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I got off to a really good start.  Obviously like you said, birdieing three of the first four, just to hit in close and hole the putts.
I played okay for the next probably six, seven holes but just couldn't get the putts in.  A couple of bad bogeys and bad swings on the par 3 and a terrible lay up on the par 5.  But I gave myself a chance on 16.  Just didn't putt as well today.
Q. The putts as 6,7 and 11 slid by and at that point Ariya was going three shots ahead.  Was there a thought in your mind that you had to chase her at that point?  Is it tempting to feel like that?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: A little bit.  We both got off to great starts.  She played amazingly well today.  She really did hit the ball really well.  Gave herself tons of chances and she got the putts in today.
Q. Good scores are possible out there?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it's possible.  Obviously if May keeps playing like she keeps playing, she's going to be tough to catch but go out tomorrow and try to make as many birdies as I can.
Q. All started so well for you, back to back birdies, could you have expected such a good start to your Saturday here at would he burden of proof?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: That's obviously what you're hoping for, birdie three of the first four, get off to a flying start and just couldn't keep it going.  Had some good chances the next five or six holes and couldn't get the ball in the hole.  A couple terrible swings on 14 and 15.  Just didn't putt quite as well today.
Q. Do you give yourself a chance to look ahead to what could happen tomorrow?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I felt as though I was having to try to make some birdies and felt like I was chasing.  But just need to go out tomorrow and try and hold it.
Q. The home crowd were all following you around today, how nice is it to have the support, because I guess you don't get to play at home that often?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah -- the crowd's been great all week.  Only twice a year we get to play at home, so it's really nice.  Hopefully I can roll some putts in and give them something to cheer.
Q. A wonderful start?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, a great start, birdieing three of the first four, got off to the dream start really and then just kind of couldn't really keep it going.  Had some chances and putts just stopped going in.
Q. Pressure with the scoring --
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Obviously playing with her, she was playing really well today and taking advantage of the good shots she was playing.  You do feel maybe a little bit, maybe I tried just a bit too hard on some of the putts to keep up with her.
Q. The course is giving up birdies?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, obviously a lot will depend on how May plays tomorrow, but if I can go out and post a low number, you never know.
A little disappointed with the way I finished today, but another round to go and I've got to stay positive.
Q. Frustrating round -- you had chances on that front nine, kind of a match-play feel on the front nine a bit?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think it was too early, really.  That's just the start of the third round.  A lot of other great players who can shoot a lot of birdies, so there are not that many score boards on the front nine.  Didn't really know what other people were doing.
Q. Tomorrow there's a few shots in between, but there's only a couple of people ahead of you.  That's different, isn't it?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, only three of them in front of me.  Obviously a lot's going to depend on how the leader plays.  But just never know.  So if I can go out and shoot a low number, that's all I can do and see what happens.
Q. Still feel your striking is good enough to get you there tomorrow?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, like anything, all the people up there are hitting it well, so just comes down to who holes the putts in the end.
Q. You had the momentum going at the start; was there any particular occurrence that changed the momentum?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Not one great moment, no.  Just the putts just kind of start sliding past.  I thought I hit a good putt on 7, the par 5, and it just kind of stayed out in the left, and she had just chipped in on 6.  Just kind of lost a bit of momentum I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT