RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2016
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You gave yourself so many chances today, and you took them.  How would you rate that particular round of golf?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: That's probably one of the best rounds I've played.  I think I hit 18 greens today.  Just one awful shot on 16 but then followed it probably with my best shot of the day, the 4-iron on to the green.  Gave myself a lot of chances and holed my fair share of them today.   
 Q.  And in your 83 rd major, you've won one but come close in so many others, nine top 5s.  Is there a feeling in your career that you've achieved so much but you'd love to nail just one more of these big events?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, obviously, that's why we play in them.  We want to try and win, and to give myself a chance on Sunday would be fantastic.  If I can get in there in contention on Sunday, I'm sure it will be a fantastic atmosphere; the crowd were great today.   
 Q.  You've been named vice captain by Annika to the Solheim Cup, and the lifetime achievement in Scottish golf, it's all bubbling up very nicely for you.  With Rio on the horizon, how significant a milestone and achievement would it be to be on that Great Britain team for you?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: That's a huge achievement.  Obviously growing up, I never thought I'd be in an Olympics.  It's been a goal of mine for the last couple of years to try and make the team.  Probably be my only chance with where I am in my career.   
I was delighted when I made it, and can't wait to go, and going down a few days early, watching some other things, and of course get ready for the golf.   
 Q.  Your husband is coming to Rio; how is it all going to work out for the family?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Luckily we have some very helpful grandparents.  Unfortunately couldn't come over, so they are going to be back at home watching.  It will be great to have Graham there.  He doesn't get to come out often now, so it will be great fun.   
 Q.  Is the Opening Ceremony on your horizon?  What are you most looking forward to about being an Olympian?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Unfortunately not the Opening Ceremony.  We don't fly down until the 12th.  Just couldn't be away that long from the children.  But just really looking forward to the whole atmosphere of it.  We are staying in the village, just to get a sense of the whole thing.  Hoping to go to the athletics on Saturday, super Saturday, so that would be great.   
 Q.  Age 46, you're back at it again at Woburn with an incredible round today; what happened out there today, and why did it feel so good?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I've been playing well all year.  Today I just played really well.  Hit 18 greens.  Gave myself a lot of chances.  The putts actually dropped today.  I've been struggling -- well, you never feel as though you hole enough putts, but I holed my fair share today.   
 Q.  We are used to seeing your husband on the bag for quite some time and he stepped way to look after the kids at home for awhile and he's back on the bag this week.  How much of a good relationship is that for you around the golf course?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: It's great.  He caddied for 16, 17 years, so very used to how each other react on the golf course.  It's just great having him here.  I think he'll probably do five or six this year, so it's always nice.   
 Q.  And in three weeks' time, you'll be representing team Great Britain at the Olympics; what support are you feeling at Woburn this week?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Fantastic support.  I mean, the support out there on the back nine today was great.  Big cheers when I rolled in a birdie.  If I can keep myself in contention and be there on Sunday, it will be a fantastic atmosphere.   
 Q.  Obvious question:  You do well here, and you're down to be a vice captain; so you'll do both?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Annika asked me, she thought that would be a possibility.  She thought a playing vice would work.  It's a long way off still.  See how I'm playing next year.  Certainly a possibility.   
 Q.  In context of this year, is this one of your best rounds this year, ever?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: One of my best ball-striking rounds.  I thought I hit the ball really well all day today.  Like I said, apart from maybe a few irons, and that one bad tee shot on 16 and then probably one of those rare occasions where you hit the perfect shot, which doesn't happen very often, 4-iron on to the green.   
 Q.  You were 2-over after ten yesterday.  What happened to change it around?  Were you playing well at that point?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I woke up (laughter).  I didn't get off to the greatest start.  I think I said yesterday, I holed probably a 30-footer on the 11th for birdie yesterday and that just kind of spurred me on, maybe just settled me down a little bit.  Just hit it in pretty close today and gave myself a lot of chances.   
 Q.  How do you find the greens?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I found them nice today.  Managed to hole some.  But yeah, you've got to be in the right spots.  You've got to try to keep it below the pins.  But they are a nice speed.  They are not too fast, so even if you do get above, it's not ridiculously fast.   
 Q.  Charley Hull was saying she thought they were slower than they have been; does that suit you?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW: You just have to get used to what you're putting on, don't you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT