RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2015
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  COLIN CALLANDER: We welcome past champion and you also played here in 2002, finishing tied 35th. You've been out there today. How is the course looking ahead for the championship? 
CATRIONA MATTHEW: The course is really good actually. The greens are probably some of the best we've putted on all year. Course is in good shape, and, well, it was a nice day today which always makes it nice. Nice to have four days like this.
COLIN CALLANDER: How far off your list of favourites does Turnberry come? I know you haven't played here much, but is that a course that suits your eye? 
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I haven't played here a lot, just the British the last time it was here in 2002. Yeah, a great course. I think it suits my eye pretty well and looking forward to playing it. 

Q. You've played most links courses in Scotland. How does Turnberry shape up and does it require anything different? 
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I don't think there will be anything different. I think like all links courses that you've got to stay out of the bunkers. The fairway bunkers, I would say probably actually the bunkers are steeper than they are on a lot of other links courses. 
Yeah, obviously it's good to stay out of the fairway bunker. You're better having a longer shot in than trying to take in some of the bunkers. Like 5, the par 4, they are super deep on the left. 
Yeah, I think the main thing is just to try and keep it out of them. Try and avoid having doubles. 

Q. As a past champion, does that sense of kind of the tingle of anticipation and whatever, is that still as strong as ever coming in here, a Women's British Open? 
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, definitely. Obviously being a major and having won it before makes it special, and being my home major, it's extra special. Always a little bit more nervous and excited coming into this one. 

Q. Is there one that compares with it or would this be‑‑
CATRIONA MATTHEW: I would say the U.S. Open, I've always enjoyed that one. Those are probably my two favourite majors. 

Q. How much do you think about the Olympics and how much is that a goal for next year? 
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it's a big goal for next year. It's an event I've always enjoyed watching. Watched it every four years. It would be a great experience I think to go down and play in the Olympics. 

Q. Just back on the Olympics, would you have put the team element, or a mixed team element‑‑
CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think they could have come up with a more interesting format, and definitely the men and ladies playing together I think would have been good fun. Obviously they have gone for the standard, 72‑hole one, which is a bit of a shame. I think for the first time showcasing it, it would be nice to have the men and ladies play together in some sort of team event. 

Q. Are the girls here with you this week?
CATRIONA MATTHEW: No, they are not. No. Back home. 
COLIN CALLANDER: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT