SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 30, 2015
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty crazy start yesterday but then rallied another decent round today?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, just the first two holes yesterday, then played really well, and I played well today, just got tough there the back nine.   The wind really picked up.

Q.   How far along were you in the round when the wind picked up?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I'd say about nine, the last nine holes, especially that front nine you could score some.

Q.   How did you sort of get it back in gear yesterday after that start? 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I think I was in shock.   I was numb.   I don't know, it was windy yesterday when we started, and obviously the putter started it.   I just thought if I could hang in and get back to a couple over, but I played pretty well.

Q.   Obviously a lot better than that with the wind picking up.   You're 4‑under.   Hopefully that keeps you in contention?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   It should be in and around there I would say by the end of the day.   It should give me a chance tomorrow anyway.

Q.   What happened on those first two holes yesterday?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Well, 2 was playing like a par‑5, just missed the fairway and just had to lay up.   1, just got in the thick stuff and kind of didn't come out and just kind of two three‑putts.   Quite easy, really. 

Q.   Do you think it helps you having played in Europe because of the wind here?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I think it maybe helps a little bit, but I've played over here for so long now, but yeah, everyone can play in the wind, but yeah, it helps a little.

Q.   On 3 yesterday did you have to say‑‑
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, it just kind of blew me because I've been playing well, and then obviously didn't really hit dreadful shots, and then pretty good shot on 3 and a two‑putt for birdie got me going.

Q.   Are the greens a little faster this year than they have been in the past? 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I'd say they're actually probably a little slower than normal to be honest.   There's a lot of grass on them actually.   They're quite green.   Someone said you've had a lot of rain. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT