ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2015
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  It was a very solid round.  Anything stick out in particular that was good?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Just played really well, actually.  I think I just missed the one green on 6, so gave myself a lot of chances, hit fairways, and yep.   Q.  Placement here everyone keeps saying is just pretty much where you're placing it on the greens?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think you've got to be in the fairway.  If you're not in the fairway, then you're struggling.  The rough is pretty thick this year.  If you're on the fairway you can give yourself a lot of chances.   Q.  How thick is it?  It's kind of been the talk all week is they've let it grow.  How has it been for you?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it's thick.  I hit one in here and just had to hack a 7-iron out and then 6-iron back into the green.  Yeah, if you're unlucky, you can be unlucky and not be able to get to the greens.   Q.  I keep asking the players who have played here often or I guess a couple times, are you very comfortable here?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I've always liked playing here, so yeah, one of my favorites.   Q.  How do you feel this year?  How did you feel coming into the major season with your game?  Working on anything in particular?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: You know, I felt really good.  I played actually really well last week, just putted terribly just on those greens.  I mean, these greens, maybe not as smooth as they are normally, but you don't get the poa annua that you got last week, which is nice.   Q.  Did you feel anything coming into this year with your game that you felt just very particular about, that you felt good on?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: You know, I'm always working on something, but yeah, I went and practiced for a week with my coach and was hitting it well, so obviously you never know what's going to happen until you tee it up, but I was feeling fairly confident.   Q.  When was that?  When did you work with him?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: January, the week of Ocala.   Q.  So before the start of the season?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah.   Q.  And where is he based, home?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah.   Q.  What's his name?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Kevin Craggs.   Q.  And you don't get to see him too often during the season?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Well, when I go home.  I see him when I go home and then do videos and things.   Q.  So you guys do the whole video send back?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, makes it easy.   Q.  Heading into the weekend, great position.  Feel comfortable, kind of just a couple shots back?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I do.  Yeah, definitely.  Obviously had it tough yesterday morning, so you know, nice to be kind of in position.   Q.  How different were conditions to yesterday?  I feel like your group got kind of the short end of the stick?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, our first probably seven holes were really difficult.  You could have played yourself out of it, so you just had to try and hang in.  It was kind of perfect this morning.   Q.  How important was that yesterday to have played well through the windy stretch?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Oh, definitely.  I mean, it was our first nine holes you could have blown yourself out of it really, your first nine.  It was windy.   Q.  Taking control of the scoring conditions today, did you think about that saying, okay, not as windy?  CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, obviously today there's really no wind -- you can't say there's any wind really.  Obviously the greens get a little crustier in the afternoon, but definitely low scores out there.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT