U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2014
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Great round of golf out there today.  Talk about how that felt.CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, obviously delighted.  66, great score.  I played well every day, but I just got a few lucky breaks today, had a few shots that just ran in close on like 5 and 10.  So there's so many holes you can never really go at the pins, so I just hit a few fortunate, perhaps, bounces that just ran up to the hole a little bit today.
Q. With the experience that you had on this course going into the final round did you think there were six birdies and an eagle out there?CATRIONA MATTHEW: If I'm being honest, probably not, no.  I was looking -- I would have taken even par today.
Q. How does it feel to be able to go out in 66?CATRIONA MATTHEW: Delighted.  I feel I've been playing well, just holed a few more putts today and that makes all the difference.
Q. What did you hit into 10?CATRIONA MATTHEW: I hit a little 5-iron.
Q. How close?CATRIONA MATTHEW: To about two feet.  So just little bits like that.  You hit that to 20 feet or whatever, and you make birdie.  Just little things that just help you when you have a good round like that.
Q. How have you -- your thoughts on having the Women's Open here on No. 2.  Do you think it's been a good staging ground?CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think it has.  I think it's obviously a great test.  You've really got to think your way around.  You know you can't really go at many pins.  I don't know if there was any pins I went at all week, just about.  Unless by accident.  So, yeah, it's been great.  It's worked out well following the men.
Q. You're somebody who obviously -- you're here to win tournaments, you're here to contend, you've been very close before in this championship, so obviously maybe disappointed that you come in -- I think you were 9-over when you began the day?CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, obviously, disappointing first and third round.  5-overs.  Two good rounds, second and fourth round. I really couldn't put my finger on much to say how I played much differently any of the days.  Just a few bounces.  Like on 5 I just ran into the bunker yesterday, just didn't quite make it up and messed up from there.  So just tiny fractions can make the difference.
Q. You had a front row to see the -- to watching both Michelle Wie and Amy Yang the first two days.  What did they do that impressed you?CATRIONA MATTHEW: They both played well.  Michelle putted really well the first two days.  Which you've got to do.  You're going to have some 10 or 15 footers for pars or whatever.  She holed a few kind of longer ones for birdie.  So I would say really that was the difference.  She just holed some good putts -- obviously played well but made some putts.
Q. You obviously played well enough to post a score that you did, was there anything about the course that allowed you to do things today maybe that the first three days weren't available to you?CATRIONA MATTHEW: No, I don't think so.  They had some easier pins and some tougher pins, so, no, not really.  Just played well today.
Q. Good way to finish, right?CATRIONA MATTHEW: Oh, yeah.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT