HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2014
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Not the finish you wanted, but what a day. 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I gave myself a lot of chances and just holed them all today.   Then obviously a disappointing way to finish.   I would have taken 65.

Q.   Yeah.   Talk about the first round 76.   Did you do any regrouping?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Australia missed the cut but felt I hit the ball as well as I have done.   Then 76, you know, it was just one or two bad shots here and there but overall had played well, so I knew it was coming. 

Q.   What about the weather today?   Dry up a lot of the greens?   Change course conditions? 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Not a whole lot, no.   I think probably the humidity probably keeps the greens that wee bit softer. 

Q.   Yeah.   What off‑season for you?   A lot of family time?   Down time?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, played the (indiscernible) event first week in December and didn't touch a golf club again until January.   Went away for an intensive five‑day practice.   Just a little rusty.

Q.   Yeah, absolutely.   Dust it off.   Coming into this season, throughout your career do you take more time as the career goes on to spend time with the kids? 
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I suppose these last few years.   I've always taken a break in the winter, but I won't play more than three in a row and try and go home for two.   I'll play less than most people, but still a fairly full schedule, 22 events.

Q.   Nine shots back coming into today.   Did you have any game plan?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   No.   I mean, obviously nine back I just wanted to go out there and try and get as low a number as I could.   Can't say I was really thinking about getting up there with the leaders, but I wanted to go out and try and build and get a couple of good rounds for next week.

Q.   Run me through the eagle on 15.
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, nice driver to 12 feet.

Q.   A lot of scorable holes on this course.   Coming down into Sunday, is there a number you think you might need to put together?
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Always tough to say.   There are some scorable holes and some tricky holes.   16, 17, and then 18, they're tricky holes.
So you just never know.   You just got to take your chances I think when you get them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT