THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 14, 2013
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
Catriona Matthew
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Catriona Matthew, Jodi Ewart, and Beatriz Recari.   Thank you, ladies, for joining us today.   Now, Catriona, you're one of the most experienced players on the European team, six Solheim Cup appearances.   Seven?   Sorry.   According to the media, LPGA media guide.   Are you comfortable in this leadership role?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I don't really see myself as a leader.   Lotta is the captain, she's the leader of the team.   I think we're just 12 players, we're all a team.   Obviously I played in a few more, so maybe just a little bit more experience.   
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   And you're both rookies, do you feel like rookies this week, is this anything surprised you or is it totally as you expected?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, definitely there's been a lot of things that there's no way you can imagine them like that.   Just starting with the team spirit, all the staff helping us, the European team throughout the week.   I mean it's been amazing and there's been a lot of new things, obviously, because this is totally different from what we do on a regular basis week in, week out here in the LPGA.   
So I mean it's definitely been some new stuff and some great new presents every day, it's like Christmas every day and just the spirit and everybody just encouraging us and so, yeah, just trying to help you out as much as they can and we're looking forward to the weekend.   
THE MODERATOR:   Jodi, take us back to St. Andrews and you were a pick and what it felt like to be picked to play for Europe.   
JODI EWART:   It was a total honor.   Just the feeling when I got told that I was on the team, I've been working, this is my No. 1 goal the past couple of years and to finally achieve it was, it was really special and now that I'm here, it's quite surreal and it's pretty amazing and I just can't wait until Friday.   
THE MODERATOR:   Catriona, does it feel any different in this team compared to last time in Ireland?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Obviously it's different players on the team, but I think we have got a really good team spirit going.   Obviously every one's slightly different in its own way, but we're all having great fun this week and I think we're all just getting excited and wanting to get started.   Looking forward to Friday.   
   
 Q.   For Catriona, in the time you've been playing golf, the sort of the makeup of the European Solheim Cup team has changed.   It was sort of dominated at some points by different countries and it's spread out it seems, does that reflect the growth of women's golf in Europe or can you maybe put that into perspective of how many different people are or how many different countries are represented?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Absolutely.   I suppose the first few it was probably mostly Brits and Swedes that played in it.   But now it's all the Spanish, Germany, there's lots of different nationalities.   I think golf in general is really growing in the whole world and Europe especially.   The continental Europe girls are playing really good golf and they got some really good programs and got a lot of good juniors coming up.   So I think we'll see this real variety of nationalities on the team from now on.   
   
 Q.   For all three, just in terms of your own personal games and how this course sets up obviously the factors of altitude, very, very fast greens and wide fairways to drive into.   How do you sort of feel about how that helps or what?   
JODI EWART:   I think overall our team is very long off the tee and that definitely helps with the altitude.   I played golf at New Mexico, which was similar altitude, so I'm kind of have that experience of playing at hitting an 8‑iron like 155.   It's something to get used to, definitely, but you really have to hit the ball in the right spots on the greens, so I think it suits the ball strikers, so.   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I think the course is obviously long, is playing pretty long.   Even at the altitude.   We're not getting a whole lot of run.   But like she said, it's all going to come down to the greens.   You can hit good shots in and not have much of a putt, so it's all going to just depend on where you put the ball on the green.   But I think the matches in general, I think it's going to be really exciting, I think it's going to be a thriller.   
   
 Q.   Pace of the greens?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I'm just going to repeat what they said.   It's all going to come down to the greens, even more than normal.   And they're so fast, I think faster than what we normally play, and it's playing long for everybody too, so it will be a good test.   It will be, I think it's going to be really tight and you're going to see matches going all the way to 18.   
THE MODERATOR:   What do you think you need to do to make history this week?   To be the first European team to win in America?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   We need to beat the Americans.   
(Laughter.)  
We need to be bad.   Yeah.   I think, like all Solheim Cups, it comes down to the end, usually which team putts the best.   It's just who holes just a crucial putt at the right time.   It seems to always come down to just a few putts here or there.   So I definitely think it's just going to come down to that in the end.   
   
 Q.   Beatriz, I'm not sure if you're old enough, do you remember the big breakthrough in '97 in the Ryder Cup when Europe would be won?   Were you old enough to know that was going on?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, I saw that the biggest comeback I ever witnessed in my life last year in Chicago, so that's, if you're not inspired after that, I don't know what is going to get you inspired.   That was everybody ‑‑ and I was watching on TV, everybody was saying, there's no way they're going to come back, even the European commentators were like, well, this is really tough.   And they did it.   
So if they can do it, so can we.   But I'm confident that we're going to start really strong from the beginning and we're just going to be fearless out there and be aggressive, because everybody is reminding us how many times that we haven't won in the UnitedStates so there is nothing we have to lose, I don't think, and we have to just be fearless from the beginning.   
   
 Q.   How important would that be in terms of how much more attention do you think that would bring European women's golf to actually win it here?   You've won it in Europe, would it make a big difference to win it over here?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I think if it was on ESPN after Sunday, that would mean we have done a pretty good job.   
THE MODERATOR:   Okay, thanks for joining us.   Enjoy the rest of the week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT