RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2013
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great finish, leaves you two shots off the pace as we speak, very handily.   Satisfied?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, very pleased.   Always nice to finish with two birdies, especially 17, this year being a par 4, nice to birdie that one and a nice one on 18.   Overall pretty pleased.   I think this is going to be the easiest day from the weather forecast and nice to see a few birdies on the board.   
   
 Q.   We were looking at and you following you, the par putt on 16 seemed to be a really big one?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah that was a good 2‑putt.   Gave me momentum to go into the last two holes.   17 was a tough hole, so par there is good.   Gave me momentum to finish off.   
   
 Q.   Played so solidly, particularly in the Majors this year, how would you gauge your form at this stage of your career coming into this one?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I would say my form is probably the best it's ever been.   Probably playing as well as I ever have.   Maybe I'm maturing well with age.   
   
 Q.   I would say so, definitely.   In terms of the definitely of preparation that you've undertaken coming into this week, is it more than you would normally have done, given the ambition to do well here?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I've had two weeks at home, so I played more links golf, been out at North Berwick in the evenings, the weather has been so nice.   Kids have had me on the beach all the time.  
   
 Q.   Nice to see you reunited with Graeme on the bag, splitting his time at home here in Scotland while you're out with someone else on the bag.   Must be a pretty huge thing because you've been inseparable in terms of a working relationship for a long, long time.   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I've been working with an a relationship guy who has been caddying three quarters of the time and Graeme has done a few, it's been an adjustment but it's been working well.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit on 17?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I hit a good drive just into the left‑hand rough, and just tried to hit a punch kind of running 4‑iron short and run up the hill.   Ran up to 25 feet past the hole and holed a good putt.   
   
 Q.   How many times do you birdie that hole‑‑  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Not often.   You'd take four pars around here on that hole.  
   
 Q.   Was it the same on 16?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I laid up short of the bunker.   I think that's just the way I'm going to play that hole, so I had a rescue into the green.   Pulled it a little.   I don't know whether I was on the second green or on the 16th green, so it was a long first putt.   
   
 Q.   Total distance, maybe 30 yards?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I think about 40 yards.   
   
 Q.   Your game is obviously solid all the way around?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, I played well.   Missed out on a little putt on 4.   I don't know what happened there, just one of these things, and then kind of chunked a wedge on 10, but apart from that, played really well.   
   
 Q.   And the birdies, the early ones?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I never can remember‑‑ 2, I hit an 8‑iron just to the back of the green and then holed probably a 20‑footer for birdie.   
Then 3, I hit sand iron to about five feet, holed that one.   
6, again, really good drive.   Hit sand iron to eight feet, holed that one for birdie.   
7, a sand iron I hit to probably about 15 feet.   
Then 10, I just chunked the second shot, not very good.   
Then 17, 18.   18, I hit gap wedge into seven feet.   
   
 Q.   I didn't actually see, was it above‑‑  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Just below, so the easiest spot to be.   
   
 Q.   Is that as easy as the Old Course plays?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, there really wasn't much wind out there.   Yeah, I really felt as though I had to try to take advantage and post a good score today, because I think the forecast is for wind to come the next few days.   
Yeah, I think that's probably the easiest we are going to get it.  
   
 Q.   Do you prefer 17 as a par 5or a par 4?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   To be honest, it doesn't make much difference.   It's just a number on the scorecard.   We are playing it from the same tees, so it doesn't make much difference.   
   
 Q.   Did you get strong support from the crowd?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, it was good.   It was nice to play at home.   
   
 Q.   You say you played some at North Berwick the last two weeks?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, a mixture, go out at night and play a few holes.  
   
 Q.   Playing on the beach with the kids, is that pretty helpful, as well‑‑  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I've never been one who could practise eight hours a day, so you know, as long as I can get a few hours practise, that does me fine.   
   
 Q.   Do you have the girls out this week?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   No.   They were going to come and then they didn't like the fact that they had to walk outside and walk, as well.   
   
 Q.   You've done two weeks back, because there wasn't a tournament on the LPGA the week before, do you think that's helped you being a bit more relaxed?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   YeahToledo, had that week and last week off, and so played a lot more golf here and get used to the links‑style again.   
   
 Q.   Less things to fight against, not having jet‑lag‑‑  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   You're coming in a bit more relaxed.  
   
 Q.   Much more like a home tournament?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Normally you're rushing from Evian and straight to it.   
   
 Q.   Not typical weather for Scotland?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   It has been for this last month.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT