WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 9, 2013
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Catriona Matthew into the interview room.   Thank you so much for joining us.   I know not the finish you were hoping for in the playoff, but when you look back on this day and where you were able to come from heading into the final round, just take me through the day and what that experience was like.   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah.   I shot one over (inaudible) and went this afternoon and played really well, no bogeys and four birdies.   Coming down the last I didn't actually realize quite where I was.   
The last I looked at the scoreboard, Inbee (inaudible), so I was quite surprised when suddenly I looked at the leaderboard on 18 and two putts would get me in a playoff.   When I started today the last round I probably didn't realize I could win.   
So to play well and get into the playoffs was obviously pretty good.   Obviously when you get into it, it's pretty disappointing but overall pretty good week.  
THE MODERATOR:   On the three playoff holes, I know that the last drives were not where you wanted them.   What would you attribute that to?   How would you take us through those holes and what was your thought process?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Obviously the first playoff hole I played pretty well.   I hit a good drive, a little 7‑iron, slightly unlucky just to stay off the top left myself a tough putt.   And pushed the drive on the 10th hole into the rough and just had to chip out.   And then hit a really good wedge onto the green until probably about a 5‑footer to extend it.   And then just a pure drive again on 18.   
What caused it, I don't know.   I wish I knew.  
THE MODERATOR:   We talked about what a long day it was playing 36 holes and then having to go into a three‑hole playoff.   What's the fatigue factor and do you feel pretty good right now?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I don't think fatigue was a factor during the playoff.   I think just the adrenaline of being in the playoff kept you going.   Certainly didn't feel tired during the playoff.   
THE MODERATOR:   You are a mom of two young beautiful girls.   What's it like traveling all the time?   How do you keep in touch, especially with them being back home in Scotland?   Do weeks like this where you're in contention kind of make it all worth it?   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah.   There's nothing worse than being away and then missing a cut makes it feel like you shouldn't have left.   Haven't played particularly well the last couple of weeks.   So yeah, obviously a good week this week makes it a bit more worthwhile.   
Youngest one keeps telling me not to come home unless I get a trophy.   So I'm getting closer.   She's a hard task master.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   When I saw the leaderboard on 18, just before I putted.   I thought, you know, if I could obviously ‑‑ realistically it wasn't looking like holing it, but if I could get in two, I had a chance at a playoff.   
   
 Q.   Was that putt on 18 was hard out there as it looked in here?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah.   But yeah, I hit a really good putt to about four feet.   Yeah, I was pleased to get a good putt there.  
   
 Q.   It looked awfully fast.   Looked like it hit at the top of the hill.   Were you expecting it to run by?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah.   I really didn't think I could leave it short.   It was pretty quick going on that ridge, so I was pleased to keep it within four feet.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   I've won already.   Obviously it would have been fantastic.   These are the tournaments you want to win.   So yeah, I mean obviously, you know, looking back I think it was great to have a chance.   
But yeah, I mean I've been out here 19 years now, so these are the big tournaments.   They're certainly the ones you're trying to win.   
   
 Q.   So your husband usually on the bag, not on the bag lately.   I guess he's staying home with the kids.   How long are you going to be out away from the kids and are they coming over to the States maybe sometime?  
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Well, I was meant to fly back tonight at 7:55, but I think I've missed that.   So try and change and go back tomorrow night and then home for a week and then I'm back out for two weeks.  
I mean it's difficult.   My husband is staying at home more now.   They're older.   I suppose it's just what we do.   I suppose everyone just gets used to it.  
   
 Q.   And then talk about Inbee Park and the stretch she's had in the last year and the type of player she is and what you're impressed with.   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Yeah, she's had an amazing run the last probably nearly two years.   She's just so consistent.   That's why, you know, it's kind around about 16, 17, when I was looking at the boards I really didn't think I had a chance.   She's not the kind of player you'd expect to fall back.   
She really doesn't hit many bad shots.   She always seems to be down the middle on the green, always gives herself a chance, and when she starts holing putts, she can hole a lot.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Katrina?   Thank you very much.   Safe travels home.   
CATRIONA MATTHEW:   Thanks very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT