LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX & JALISCO IT HAPPENS WITH YOU
November 13, 2011
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome the 2011 Lorena Ochoa Invitational Champion, Catriona Matthew, into the interview room. First off, congratulations on the win. Your first win on the LPGA TOUR in over two years. Can you tell me what the feeling is like? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I'm absolutely delighted. Already I don't think it's quite sunk in yet. I got off to a good start and hung in there in the last few holes, so exhausted at the moment but I'm sure I will pick up after a margarita.
 THE MODERATOR: You got off to a hot start, four birdies on the front nine. Take me through that front nine and kind of what happened on the back. 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I played well. Really good shot to the first, with a wedge, then 20-footer for birdie, then wedge into two and holed it 15-foot for birdie, so a great start. Then No. 6, the par 3, I holed that, and that was a bonus one. Then on 9 I two-putted for a birdie and I should have birdied 10, missed a little putt there, then bogeyed 12 and then didn't quite play as well the last couple of holes. I was just glad when 18 came along. 
 THE MODERATOR: I know you had another victory at the Scottish earlier this year, but what does it mean to have gone so long without winning on this TOUR to finally come through again. 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, obviously to win on this TOUR, this is where all the best players in the world play and to win in such a limited field with all top players playing, it's such a boost of confidence. 
 And even though it's tough being out here now, I have two children at home, so I feel like I've got to be playing well to justify myself being out here and not being at home with them more, so it's a bonus Christmas present now. 
 THE MODERATOR: Every victory is special but when you win a tournament that's associated with Lorena Ochoa's name, how much more special does that make it? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: That makes it so much more special. Lorena is doing such good work with her foundation. You come and you think I'm not doing enough when you see all the things she does, so to have won her tournament is a special moment for me. 

 Q. Congratulations. Over four days you played some tremendous golf there. What do you think has gone right for you? What was the key to it? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I just felt quite relaxed this week. I hit the ball really well last week, so I knew I was playing well. 
 I didn't hit that many bad shots until probably the last 7 or 8 holes, so that takes the pressure off a little bit when you're on your game. So I tried to concentrate on things and keep my back straighter, so that's what I was thinking about all week. 

 Q. You were 8 ahead at the turn. What happened? Did you lose focus, a little bit of concentration? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think in a way it's just that much more difficult when you've got such a big lead. I didn't know whether to keep trying to go for birdies or just play for pars and see if they make birdies, and in the end I kinda did neither and just kind of messed up a couple of holes there, but luckily I had a big lead. 
 In a way it's more difficult when you've got a big lead because you know it heats up at the turn and if you lose that, you're not very good, so it's more pressure. (Chuckles.)

 Q. Congratulations. They were saying that this is one of the favorite tournaments for the players. From your point of view what makes this tournament so special for the players? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think really the food in the clubhouse is fantastic, you know, with it being a limited field it makes it a little bit more special, and Lorena's name on the tournament as well, the players really appreciate that and the hospitality is so great this year, I think everyone enjoyed it.

 Q. Right before you got to 17th, I noticed that you looked at the score and saw you were 3 strokes ahead. What went through your mind at that moment? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I knew -- I'm always looking at the scoreboards; I knew where I was. I knew Anna hit a couple of birdies, and I knew on the 17th tee I was 3 ahead. I watched her play the hole and she bogeyed it, and it went back to a 4-shot lead, so I was confident I could close out with a 4-shot lead with two holes to go. 

 Q. Congratulations. Who did you feel was your strongest rival and what do you think about the trophy? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: The trophy is fantastic; it's certainly the heaviest one I've won. 
 I think anyone was capable of winning this, but the last day obviously I.K., Suzann, I knew they were both capable of shooting low rounds. I.K. won it last year, she likes the course. Anna, if she got her touch going, I knew could make a lot of birdies. 
 Going into the final round, I knew it was going to be tough. I just got off to a great start.

 Q. Not having your husband on the bag this week, how do you feel about it, winning without your husband on the bag?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, he was flying over today so he probably didn't see any of it. He was en route to Orlando. Obviously, you know, two three weeks a year he doesn't caddy for me. He caddied when I won in Scotland, and that was good, so he will be happy for me. 
 He caddied for me last week, so he knew I was playing well. Yeah, he'll be happy, and it will be good to see him tomorrow. 

 Q. What was the name of your caddy? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Chuck. 

 Q. And did you have any words for Lorena? I know you were talking to her there, any tips on being a mom? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I can't honestly remember what we spoke about. I think I obviously was wishing her luck, all the best. 

 Q. To whom do you dedicate this tournament victory? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I would say probably I would dedicate it to my grandparents, my mom and dad, and my in-laws, looking after the two children for the past six weeks, so I'm sure they're ready for a break! (Chuckles.)
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Catriona Matthew, and congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT