LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX & JALISCO IT HAPPENS WITH YOU
November 12, 2011
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome our current leader, Catriona Matthew into the interview room. Congratulations on another great round today. Can you take me through the round and what were the key holes for you? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I birdied the fourth hole, good 7-iron in for just a few feet and holed that one for birdie and holed a good putt on 8 for a birdie and birdied 9 from about 10 feet. 10 from 15 feet and made a good par save on 11. 
 Then I didn't make another birdie -- 14, I birdied 14, hit a shot into 6-feet and holed that one. 17 just pushed my tee shot a wee bit and didn't have a good bunker shot and bogeyed that one. All in all pretty pleased. 
 THE MODERATOR: Hole 17 was your first bogey that you've had all week. Talk about your consistency and being able to string these great rounds together and how nice it is to be able to play like that. 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it's certainly nice. I hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens and makes it quite easy, haven't missed a lot of greens, and don't have the pressure to get up and down then, so hopefully I can keep it up for another day. 
 THE MODERATOR: At one point on the back nine you had a 5-shot lead; now you have a 3-shot lead heading into tomorrow. What are your thoughts about heading into tomorrow? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I'm delighted to be in the lead. I would rather be 3 shots in the lead rather than 3 behind, I.K., Suzann and Anna all back there, all capable of coming up from behind, so I'm going to have to go out there tomorrow and shoot something in the 60s, I think. 

 Q. Great round. There was a period 8 through 11 when they just kept going in, one after another. When you get on a streak like that do you get ahead of yourself a little bit? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: You try not to. It's difficult sometimes but you try not to. I hadn't holed a lot of putts so that was the first one on 8 and then holed a good one on 11 to save par, so hopefully I can hole a few more. 

 Q. Can you remember the last time you had three rounds with just one bogey? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: No, I can't actually, it's not something I do often! (Chuckles.)

 Q. I might be wrong, but you don't have your Hogan in your bag this week; right?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: No, I don't. 

 Q. I was right. Your caddy this week? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Old friend. Met him years ago. He caddies on the PGA TOUR. He caddied in '86 and '87 Open at Muirfeld, and my parents live there, and he came and stayed at a B&B there, and that's how I got to know him. 

 Q. What has been the difference between this year and the other years that you've played here? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think I'm putting the ball better this year, being more consistent. I haven't made the mistakes that I have made in the last couple of years. More bad shots the last years. This year in general I've been more consistent and pitching the ball better, so makes it easier when you're on the fairway. 

 Q. Can you tell me how it is for you being a player and a mom as well? You have a little daughter; how is this life for you? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, it's difficult, the traveling. I think I've been away six of the last seven weeks, so I haven't seen either of them -- well, I was home one week. 
 I think in a way it makes me try to concentrate and focus harder, because I'm away from family so I try and make the most of it. They travel maybe 60% of the time with us. They have a good daycare system in the States so that works out well. 
 Yeah it's difficult when you're away but I'm going to be home for two months so back to being a normal mom. (Chuckles.)

 Q. Catriona, leading the last round, is there anything that you can do differently because you are leading? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I try not to. You're going to be nervous tomorrow being in the last group, but keep on doing what I have been doing, because it's been working for the last three days, so hopefully I can keep it going for another day. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Catriona. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT