THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 22, 2011
Catriona Matthew
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BETHAN CUTLER: So we'd like to welcome Karen Stupples and Catriona Matthew from the European team. Thanks for coming in, ladies. Catriona, this is your sixth appearance on the European team with a 10-7-4 record and 12 points scored. And Karen, this is your second appearance. If you would, just start by talking about your experience so far being in Ireland. Perhaps, Catriona, if you could start.
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, obviously, I got in here Sunday night. I've been enjoying it so far. We played 18 Tuesday and just nine the last couple of days. So it's been nice having played the course twice in the Irish Open, it's been nice coming here. 
 It's not often you come to the Solheim and you've played the course and you know the course. I felt these few days running up to it have been more relaxing and normal. Had a bit more spare time and time to kind of save our energy for the weekend. 
 KAREN STUPPLES: Yeah, exactly what Catriona said just there. It feels very comfortable playing here because we've been here so much already. So we're both feeling very -- almost calm really, and it's been fun. We had a brilliant police escort last night with motor bikes and everything. That was fun, so we've had a good time, too. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: How long did it take you to scoot through Dublin? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: A lot less with the bikes.

 Q. Being this is a match play event, how important do you think the mental game will be? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: I think it's huge, actually, because you're going one-on-one. But I think you have to remember it's just your -- you've still got to play quality golf and you've got to play your game. At the end of the day, if you take care of your business, you'll be fine. 
 But you have to put the stress and worry aside, I think, and just play golf and try to enjoy it. It should be fun, right? Golf's fun.

 Q. How about you, Catriona? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think match play, obviously, it's slightly different from stroke play. But I think certainly the front nine you're -- well, it just depends on what your opponent's doing. You might change your strategy a little if they're in trouble or whatever. 
 But on the whole you're still just going to play, especially around a course like this, if it stays like this, par's are going to be good. You're going to be trying to hit the greens and give yourself a birdie chance and go from there. 
 But, yeah, I think it's slightly different. But there is definitely a little bit more of maybe a mental game if your opponent goes off line or whatever.

 Q. Do either of you use mind-clearing techniques like breathing?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: You know, I've never really been into the psychology of it a whole lot. I suppose just through experience you learn how to maybe relax a little bit on the course. I do sometimes take a few deep breaths, but that's about it.
 KAREN STUPPLES: Yep, snap.

 Q. How important do you think it is for Europe to get a win this week? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think it would be pretty important, yeah, for Europe and just for the whole Solheim Cup if Europe can get a win this year. We've got a good chance this year. Obviously, the Americans are certainly the favorites on paper, and world ranking-wise they're higher up than us. 
 But I think we have a good team, a good blend of experienced players and some good rookies who have proven themselves winning tournaments and different things. 
 Yeah, I think we've got a good chance. We've got the home crowd. But, yeah, obviously, the Americans are going to be tough and they're favorites, but we're quietly confident. 
 KAREN STUPPLES: She's awesome. What can I say? I don't need to say anything more. She's perfect.

 Q. With that in mind, for either one of you, what has to happen for it to be different this time? For there to be a different result, what has to happen? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: I think it's been incredibly close. I think we've been a bit unlucky really over the last few years, last few events. I think it's been a lot closer than the actual results have said. It doesn't take much. When you look at it --
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: 14 and a half points. That's all you need to do. 
 KAREN STUPPLES: There you go.

 Q. Either one of you, can you go over what you think some of the key holes are on the back nine? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: Any of those ones at the end really. You look at 15, 16, 17, really, those are going to be key. You've got a good par-5 that you've really got to be looking at making birdie on. Then you have 16, which is a tough par-3. And 17 is a really good par-4 too because you've got to be careful with your tee shot and your approach to the green which is really quite undulating. A lot could happen in those last few holes.
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think 11, 12. 11 is a tough par-4, and then 12 maybe not so much on foursomes, but four ball. Some players may be going for the green and different things. 
 So I think certainly that can turn a game sometimes. So I think maybe 10, 11, 12.

 Q. Karen you've only played one and it was in America. Can you talk about how much more comfortable it is being in Europe and talk about your experience last time? Did you enjoy it? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: My golf wasn't very good last time around. I wasn't playing particularly well. And I think if you're in this environment under the pressure of playing in a Solheim Cup, if your golf isn't good, it's a very tough week for you. You don't want to be -- it's hard to get your game ready as well. If you're coming in here trying to find your golf game, you're at the wrong event. 
 So for me, last time it was a tough event for me because I just wasn't playing very well. That's no fun because you don't want to let anybody down. You know, you're not playing well, and you don't want to let people down, so it just adds to the pressure of it all. 
 This time I feel good about my game. I feel like I've had some good results coming in. I've been very consistent. It's lovely to be here as well. Like we said earlier, we're very familiar with the course. We're familiar with the surroundings here. Everything's familiar, TV shows, things like that. It's just like home, really. It is home.

 Q. So you mentioned earlier that the European team is quietly confident. Can you just explain exactly why you're quietly confident? Is it the course; is it the formula of the team? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think you've got to believe you can win. There's no point in being here if you don't believe you can win. 
 But, yeah, I think we've got a good team. Like I said, we've got a good blend of experience. Obviously, Suzann, Maria, Sophie, Karen, good, long hitters. All been playing well this year. And Sandra has won in the States this year. Mel Reid's won a few tournaments in Europe, and Caroline's won, I think, three tournaments in Europe. 
 Even though they're rookies, I think they've proved that they can win tournaments. They may not be up there in the world rankings, but they're all good players. 
 Yeah, I think all of us feel as though we've got a good enough team to win. As I said, we'll probably be the underdogs world ranking-wise. But I definitely think we all believe we can go out there and win.

 Q. Can you tell me who has been the life and soul of the team room? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: I think Melissa's been very funny, actually. Yeah, she's made all of us laugh quite significantly this week, yep. Wouldn't you say so? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah. I thought it was me. 
 KAREN STUPPLES: Well, and you.
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I thought you were going to say me.

 Q. Given America's traditional dominance in the singles, what kind of position do you think Europe needs to be in come Saturday night? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: I don't think you even really need to look at that. I think for singles to be successful, everybody has to go out and take care of their own business and not worry about it. I think traditionally in the past the top players have had to -- have had a lot of pressure, because they know that their points are big. 
 But this year we're all playing fairly well. I think we have a better chance together as a team, so there's not that same kind of pressure. I think we're going to do just fine.

 Q. Do you think it's essential in some ways for a European victory this time around for the Solheim Cup not to get a reputation as a one-sided competition? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: That depends on what you write about it. I think that it's a big competition for us on the European Tour, and I think it is for the Americans. The rivalry that's happened now over the last few years -- 12 is it? 12 times -- has become quite significant. And the tradition that's involved in it, I think, is huge. I don't think anybody would really want to see that go no matter what the result ended up. But if you write good stuff, then we'll be just fine.
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: We've been beaten, but they've been close. I think as long as it's close, which I think it will be. 
 KAREN STUPPLES: I think the matches will be great this year. I think it will be very close. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT