RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2011
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you rate that round?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, delighted with it. I knew I had to go out there and shoot a pretty low number, so yeah, very happy with 68.

 Q. Bewildering changes on the leaderboard. Were you aware of that as the round progressed when you were out there?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Not really until the back nine, but obviously looks like she's doing very well, Caroline, and Yani just made an eagle. We'll see how they finish.

 Q. You talked about the possibility of winning at this championship. You've done it at Royal Lytham and you know how special it would be here in Scotland, but what kind of support have you been getting from the home crowd?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, obviously it would be fantastic. I'm an ambassador for Carnoustie Country, so to win at Carnoustie would just be fantastic.

 Q. How do you rate your position currently? You're five shots behind as we speak, but how do you rate it right now?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I'd like to probably be a little bit closer, but they've got some birdie opportunities but a couple of tricky holes, as well. We'll see how they finish. I think it's supposed to be a little bit windier tomorrow, so five shots, can really pick that up pretty quickly. 

 Q. Describe the atmosphere out there. 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it was fantastic. It's not often I get to play in Scotland, and the crowds were out in force today. I was lucky enough to make a few birdies today, so it's great to hear them cheering when the putts go in.

 Q. What is it about this championship you enjoy so much?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think it's the one chance we get to play on links golf each year. I grew up on that kind of golf. I hadn't had a great record in it, but since I won it, it's nice to come back and play links golf.

 Q. Do you feel like you may have an advantage tomorrow with your local knowledge?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think everyone kind of knows the course now. Yani has certainly got a good ball flight for the wind. But having grown up on this kind of golf will maybe help me a little bit.

 Q. Let's say you're half a dozen shots behind going into the final round. Is that the same as half a dozen shots on a different golf course, let's say an American style golf course?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think it depends on the wind tomorrow. I think it's meant to be a little bit windier tomorrow, so six shots really isn't much if the wind blows around here. 
 I'm delighted with it. I made a couple of good par saves in the first couple of holes and then birdied 5 on the way out, really good birdie there actually, 6-iron in. And then a few birdies on the back nine. Yeah, pleased with how I played today.

 Q. Any particular shots that you were pleased with?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: 18. You know, I played 18 really well. I hadn't hit that fairway yet. I managed to hit the fairway and a really good shot in. I thought the putt had a chance, but 68 is not too bad.

 Q. Did you feel that was quite critical?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, and everyone else was birdieing that, so I kind of cooled myself and hit a really good chip. You really kind of feel that you're losing half a shot if you don't birdie that one.

 Q. Given where you were on the leaderboard, as well?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I was wanting to try and birdie that. And 18 wasn't an easy hole. 

 Q. Overall the scoring is much higher today. 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think the pins are a little bit trickier and there's definitely a bit more wind today. 

 Q. What do you make of Caroline Masson?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, obviously playing very well. I haven't seen her play yet, but yeah, she's obviously doing everything right.

 Q. She just seems to be unable to make any mistakes at the moment, which is ultimately what you're going to need?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think it's meant to be a little bit windier tomorrow, so it'll be a different kind of golf course tomorrow. Yes, you just need to try and grind out pars tomorrow.

 Q. You're still well in touch?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, who knows how many I'll be behind by the end of the day, but all I can do, I shot a good score today. I can't really control what she does. 

 Q. At what point do you think it's too far behind, four behind, five behind?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: A lot of it depends on the weather, how windy it is. I think if it's windy -- Paul Lawrie came back from ten shots. If it's windy, anything can happen.

 Q. Do you enjoy playing The Open here? 
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, love it, great to play at Carnoustie. I've been an ambassador now for Carnoustie Country, so it's great to be in this area.

 Q. Do you feel it's an advantage having won on the links before?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, I think -- well, I think everyone kind of knows the course now, and if the wind gets up, I don't think that's a big advantage. Having won this tournament before, I think, helps a little bit.

 Q. Did you get a lift from the crowd or did they put you under more pressure?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: No, it was great. Obviously when you're playing well and making birdies, it's great to hear the crowd cheering you on.

 Q. Quite a few of the Koreans are struggling. Is there any reason for that?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Certainly the pin positions are tougher. You have to play away from a lot of the pins, certainly in the first few holes, and it's windier today, so it's a little bit trickier. Maybe they're not used to playing this kind of golf as much in the wind. 

 Q. Do you feel that plays into your hands if it's windy tomorrow?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yes, I mean, probably I'm certainly used to it a bit more. But Yani is world No. 1, I think she knows how to play in the wind.

 Q. Are you happy with your putting?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I had a couple drop today, so I'll look for more of that tomorrow. 

 Q. What are you going to do for the rest of the day?
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Probably just practise a little bit and then go back and get something to eat. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT