RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 28, 2011
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 2-under, not bad for starters.   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yes, I'm fairly pleased with that. I gave away a couple of shots, but overall satisfied with a couple under first round. Nice to get going.  
  
  Q. Five birdies, three bogeys. Not bad.   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, not too bad. I had one three-putt and then drove it in a bunker but made a good save there on the last with a good up-and-down, so always nice to finish on a par.  
  
  Q. How did you find the course today? You were blessed with good weather at the start.   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, we were lucky. It was beautiful for our first probably 16 holes. It was lovely. Yes, it was certainly there for the taking, and I kind of knew I wanted to get a couple under par today because it's probably the calmest it might be for the week.  
  
  Q. How are you finding the course?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: It's a great course. I love it, in great shape. Greens are really good. I mean, it's just tricky off the tee. You've got to keep it out of the bunkers or else you're probably looking at bogey.  
  
  Q. It's had some criticism that perhaps the tees are a bit too short. What do you think?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think on any links course if there's no wind it always plays quite short. It just needs a puff of wind and it'll play quite different.  
  
  Q. It's been a good start, and you're hoping for better the next few days?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, we'll see what the weather does and hope for some more under-par rounds.  
  
  Q. Do you think you learned a lot this morning?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Not really. I knew kind of what I was trying to do. Just trying to do the same for the next three days.   
  
  Q. Were you nervous?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Not too bad. It was so early, everyone was still in bed. I hit 3-wood and then hit a good 6-iron to about 12 feet and holed for birdie. It was nice to start like that.  
  
  Q. When you come back to an event that you've won before, how are you feeling? I know it's a new course, but --  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, this one is slightly different in that you don't come back to the same golf course. But it's nice to have won this and it takes a little bit of pressure off me having won it once.  
  
  Q. And you're fairly at home on links courses?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah. You always think you could have done better. Under par, it's always nice to start under par. Obviously who knows if we got the best of the weather today or not, but it was certainly pretty calm, and there was a chance to get a pretty good score today.  
  
  Q. Can you take us through your birdies?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I birdied the 1st, hit a 6-iron to about 15 feet, holed that one for birdie.  
 No. 4, I hit a 50-degree wedge to probably eight feet and holed that one for birdie.   
 6, I hit it just over the back in two and chipped up to about six feet and holed that one.   
 12, I hit a 7-iron to about 35 feet, holed a long one there.  
 And then 14, hit it in the middle of the green in two and two-putt.   
  
  Q. Getting some good local support here?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, nice, just maybe a little too early today. Everyone is just getting up now.   
  
  Q. Was it a tough test?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah. I think links golf, it doesn't matter if it's the men or the ladies, if there's no wind it's not overly difficult. But the moment there's a bit of wind the whole course changes completely. I mean, links courses you need the wind to make them more difficult.  
  
  Q. What kind of score do you think was possible this morning?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think someone could go maybe 5-under-ish I would have thought.   
  
  Q. What was it like weather-wise at 6:50 this morning?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: It was lovely actually. It was warmer than it is now. The sun came out probably after about six holes, and it really got quite nice, just until our last couple of holes the rain started. Still not bad.  
  
  Q. Ideally you want the wind to pick up the rest of the day?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Well, that would be nice. I don't think there's been a whole lot of wind all week.   
  
  Q. What will you do the rest of the day?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Just go and practice a little bit and then go back and rest a bit.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT