THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 21, 2009
Maria Hjorth
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARIA HJORTH: We were up most of the way until about 11, 12, until we let them in, and then they got a couple of holes back and then they made a couple of good birdies. I think overall we probably deserved a halve.  
  
  Q. You say that extremely positively. You say there was a turn in the round around 11 and 12. What exactly happened, Maria?   
 MARIA HJORTH: Yeah, on 12 I hit a good tee shot. I was just absolutely snookered behind the one tree that is in the middle of the fairway, so I just had to chip out, and unfortunately Catriona pulled her second shot a little bit left and went down in kind of the valley of sin there where you can't really be where the pin is.   
 We lost that one, but then they made two great birdies on 13 and 14 and I didn't make my putts. That's how it is.   
  
  Q. Were you looking at the leaderboard and aware of what you had to do?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, you're looking around and you hear the cheers. We knew for us to get something out of our game was probably something really important.  
  
  Q. Just talk about the atmosphere out there and how intense it is.   
 MARIA HJORTH: It is intense. You know that everything they do they're going to cheer for. All we're trying to do is make putts so we don't hear the cheers that much. But it is intense, and it's going to get worse and worse throughout the weekend.   
  
  Q. Maria, after the ball that went behind the tree, it seemed like you got kind of down. Were you frustrated out there?  
 MARIA HJORTH: Just a little frustrated because it was a good tee shot. You aim for the tree and you know you're not going to get stuck behind it and then you get stuck right behind it. I hit two really good shots on 12 and 13 and just didn't make the putts there.  
  
  Q. This match was nip and tuck. You had the lead and then they came back and got two quick points. What did you and Catriona say to each other to get back into this match?   
 MARIA HJORTH: We just kind of tried to encourage each other to make sure that we just -- made sure we tried to make birdies. If you lose a hole and birdie, there's not much you can do about it. 12 we lost on a bogey, which is not very good, but other than that we just lost on birdies. So we just have to keep on making birdies, and hopefully that will win the hole.   
  
  Q. Catriona, you were steady out there. When you had the little hiccup out there where you lost a couple of holes, what did you and your partner say to sort of get it back together again and to stay steady?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I mean, it was really just 12 that we lost. The other ones they made good birdies on. You can't really do much about that. We were just saying we wanted to try to get two balls on every green and try and have two putts at birdie everywhere.  
  
  Q. Which holes would you say were the most critical for you guys?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think probably 15. Michelle hit it on in two. She was kind of lucky with her drive, hit it on in two, and then we made a good birdie just to keep that one?  
  
  Q. That shot was pretty incredible, wasn't it, considering where she was?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I suppose with Michelle you just never know. She's capable of those kind of shots.  
  
  Q. Do you have any idea what kind of yardage that was? I have no idea where she was. Like 200?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: You know, I have no idea. Probably about 200.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT