RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2009
Catriona Matthew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN CALLENDER: Congratulations on a very solid round of 71 which leaves you 4-under par with a three-shot lead on four under par 212. Could you give us your general thoughts on the round today, please?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I was really pretty pleased with how I played. I hit two good shots on 3, and then hit a 3-putt and then hit a terrible shot off the fourth. But I hit a good shot into 5 and made birdie, and I think that just kind of settled me down for the rest of the round and really played probably some of my best golf, even coming back into the wind and crosswind. So I was pleased with how I played the last nine.  
 COLIN CALLENDER: Seemed to me that you had the ball under control the whole way after the first couple of holes.  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I missed only the 14th green coming in, and that wind coming in was good. A shame I didn't make any of the birdies on 17 or 18, but hopefully make some more tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Given the break you had, does this surprise you?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I mean, I think I kind of knew more what to expect this time, this being the second baby. When I came back from having Katie the first time, I think I finished first and second, and but, even allowing for that, I'm still a little surprised at how well I've been playing.   
  
  Q. What was the last tournament you played?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I played in Singapore, that was maybe end of February and I didn't play again until maybe five weeks ago.   
 COLIN CALLENDER: Am I right in saying it was 11 weeks ago you had the baby?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yes, just about right now (looking at watch).   
  
  Q. Perhaps you can tell us more about your tee shot on the fifth, things were looking dodgey.   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, the wind was down and off the right there, I can't remember the exact yardage, but I hit an 8-iron to probably ten feet just short of the hole and hit a really good putt and looked like it was going to miss and it sneaked in the right side. That really settled me down because I hit a good putt on 3 and it just had not moved at all and I played 4 badly so, that just kind of settled me down and got me into the round.  
  
  Q. Has your game changed, are you hitting it longer, shorter, short game?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: It's pretty much the same. I think I'm probably hitting the irons best I have done in the last couple of years. I think I've had a bit of a chance to practise, five weeks there just working on the same kind of thing. So during the season, I find it difficult to find the time to try and practise things while you're playing, so the break's kind of done me beautifully.   
  
  Q. Why are you called Beanie?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: One of my brothers couldn't pronounce Catriona when he was small, so my dad called me Bee and it stuck at Beanie.  
  
  Q. Do you set yourself a target tomorrow?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Maybe not a specific score. I think just go out there and try to miss the bunkers and hit the greens. I think if I just try and have a par putt on every hole, try and not have any disasters, I think that will be the main thing.   
 I don't think there's any hole out there I would say is an easy hole and you're looking for birdie on it. There's danger lurking everywhere, so just trying to get it on the green in regulation is what I'll try to do..   
 COLIN CALLENDER: Can we quickly do the birdies and bogeys?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: 3, I hit just a bit thin with my 5-iron, came up the front of the green and 3-putted.  
 4, I hit a bad tee shot out to the right and just kind of chipped out and hit next one on the green and 2-putted.   
 5 was an 8-iron to about ten feet for birdie.   
 10, I punched in a 9-iron probably to about 25 feet and holed a nice, long putt there.   
 13, I punched an 8-iron into probably 12 feet and holed that. Lovely shot, that was.  
  
  Q. Looking at the people behind you, is there anyone amongst them who you expect to move tomorrow?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I think there's a lot of good players. Obviously Christina has obviously had a great day today. I think Jiyai Shin will be tough, I saw Paula Creamer up there. So there's a lot of good players up there and certainly a lot of work still to do. And I would expect someone like Jiyai and Paula to go out there and play well so I can't afford to let up.   
  
  Q. Will you look at the leaderboard or just focus on your own game?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I'll be looking. I don't think it's possible not to go round without looking.   
  
  Q. I'm sure a lot of women who have had babies just 11 weeks ago will be wondering how you manage the practicalities of looking after the baby while playing tournament golf. Perhaps you could tell us how you manage to fit it all in and how you manage to get any sleep?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I'm lucky that my mum and dad are down this week, so my mum is not getting too much sleep. Obviously my husband caddies, so when we are at home during the week, he is there to help. So we just work around it, he's obviously there to help during the day. His parents and my parents have helped a lot, as well.   
  
  Q. Is the baby in the same room?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: No, she moved out after about a month. But she has big lungs, you can hear her wherever she is.  
  
  Q. Have you played much with Christina, and what's it like, because she's a lot more vocal than you are.   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I've played with Christina a few times. It's always good fun to play with her. It's entertaining and you never know what to expect. Yeah, it will be fun playing with her tomorrow.   
 COLIN CALLENDER: Catriona, best of luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT