U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 1998
Martha Nause
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Thank you.  It was nerve-wracking. 
 
MARTHA NAUSE: I have been looking forward for this week for three, four years, so, to put it all on one day was extremely nerve-wracking, and it was one of the hardest rounds I have ever played because I thought -- I was told that there was probably only one spot available that -- at that qualifying site and I was playing with somebody who was beating me, so, I mean, right there, I was already behind the 8-ball for the first nine holes.  So basically, you know, I had to overcome that in nine holes and, you know, turns out there was two spots available, but I didn't realize that until I was done.  I used every bit of my 20 years of experience to get through it. 
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Well, about a year ago I had an injury in my shoulder and had played some tournaments with having to get through the tournaments with ice on my shoulder just so I could play.  In November I had surgery on my right shoulder. Had it detached -- partially detached biceps tendon and piece of the cartilage and then a bunch of other junk that was just sort of messed up in there.  Fortunately the muscle was okay.  They cleaned it all up and tacked on the tendon again and told me really that it was a four-month recovery.  But I said:  No, I have got to be ready to play in two and a half months because the Lily Legends thing was going on and the first tournament of the year in January was the culmination of last year's Lily Legends.  I was in third place and I needed to play.  So I went out and played there in January not ready to play at all.  The week prior to that event, I couldn't hit the ball more than, off the tee, 180 yards.  Going to play at  Grand Cypress, I knew 180 yards off the tee wasn't going to do me any good.  So I just thought, well, I have just got to try.  Everyday my shoulder got better for the next week.  I got to the tournament.  I thought, well, I am hitting at it at least far enough, I could play.  I ended up making the cut.  Since then the year has been a little rougher, I haven't made a cut -- had not made a cut until my last two tournaments ago in Lansing, so, with that, you know, sort of hurt my confidence a little bit; going into the qualifying was even harder.  However, the week prior to the qualifying I did have a good tournament.  I made the cut finally and had two good rounds under par.  So I had a little bit of confidence at that point.  But it was very nerve-wracking. 
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Tina Tombs and I both qualified as 
 co-medalists at 72 and a Korean woman that I was playing with ended up in third place at 74. 
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Yes. 
 

Q.  Martha, when you and I talked Monday morning, adrenaline was flowing.  Now we are at Wednesday night before the tournament.  What is it like tonight?  Any sleep tonight before you step on that tee box?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: I am exhausted actually.  I think I have been running on adrenaline all week.  I have not been sleeping well mostly because of a cold.  But I am heading back to where I am staying to rest for the rest of the day. I have been here since 6:15 this morning practicing because as the crowds get bigger, I can't get any practice done.  I timely left here yesterday afternoon and escaped to Pine Hills to practice under quieter circumstances.  I am feeling good.  I am tired at the moment.  But it has been overwhelming to me, really, the number of people that have been on every hole all around the golf course that have wished me well and asked for autographs and, you know, said they are pulling for me and how excited they were that I was here.  It is really more overwhelming than I ever dreamed it would be. 
 

Q.  How do the speed and the undulations of this course compare to other Open courses and how do you feel that plays into your game?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Well, the greens are bigger than most we play.  Obviously, has got huge undulations as you have heard from everybody.  The speed is not as severe as some Open courses that we have played in the past.  But, as far as I am concerned, this is -- besides the size of the greens, I grew up on greens exactly like this.  I feel good about my  putting right now and if I can get at least in the right quadrant of the green, I think I should have a pretty good shot at putting okay. 
 

Q.  Is that a key to putting while out here, just getting into the right part of the green?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Well, you have to.  These greens are so large and there are so many swells and bumps and stuff that I mean, you can be a great putter, but if you have three or four different swells to go over, it is going to be pretty difficult to be totally accurate on long putts. 
 

Q.  Besides the galleries and the people that have been supporting you, how do you feel the way Wisconsin has gotten behind this Championship?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: As I said, it is overwhelming.  I should go check the thesaurus for another word for overwhelming.  It is incredible, really.  All the interviews, the media attention that I have gotten, it has been really heart-warming for me. 
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Well, as a matter of fact, I was playing with Pat Bradley today and she was remarking that, you know, the LPGA should take a look at the kind of reception we are getting here and maybe bring a tournament to Wisconsin, a yearly tournament, because it is -- obviously, everybody is very, very excited and, you know, Shaboygan itself is a fairly small community, in the whole scheme of things.  But, you know, you have people from all over the place.  People from Madison and Greenbay and Appleton and Milwaukee and all over the state are really supporting us in a huge way. 
 

Q.  You said that you have grown up on the greens like this and yet you only played this course a couple of times prior to this week.  You have been having tons of fans following you around, but does the course itself give you any advantage because you know the terrain a little bit or it is kind of a wash because you are not that familiar with this course?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Well, no, I think the terrain, also, I grew up, you know, playing golf three miles down the road or two miles down the road, so I am used to a lot of the rolling hills.  The unusual stances and lies that we may get out there are not, you know, they don't bother me.  I know people that have grown up on flatter courses, it is a little tougher for them.  That could give me an advantage.  I'd like to be able to hit the ball another 40 yards  off the tee that would be even more of an advantage. 
 

Q.  Talk about the LPGA and how this -- maybe look at getting a tournament to come into Wisconsin; has there been talk about that beforehand, before, I guess they decided to come to Blackwolf before they found out what kind of reaction they would get here and how many people are starting to come here?  Was there any talk about that at all on Tour before?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Well, I think -- I don't know.  I can't answer that question.  The commissioner and all his staff work very hard to drum up tournaments all over the place and a lot of it has to do with what sponsors have the money to put up for the tournament.  I think there probably have been talks before, but I don't know how serious it has been. 
 

Q.  Did you grow up on one of these farms around here? Are you a Wisconsin farm girl?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: I am not a farm girl, no.  I grew up in Sheboygan in the city.  And, I am a city girl. 
 

Q.  Are you staying at your home place this week or is your family still here?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Well, my dad moved out four years ago, sold the family home and moved down to Florida, so I am really -- I have a great aunt and cousin of my father that still live here, but beyond that, I don't have -- you know, I don't go home to my parent's place like I used to.  I am staying across the street, however, from my house, so I wake up in the morning and I look across the street and:  That is my house; why am I over here. 
 
MARTHA NAUSE: It is very odd.  But it is nice.  It is nice to be in familiar surroundings and even though I am not staying in my old house, I know all the back roads how to get here quicker than most people and how to zip Downtown and grab something to eat, where to go if I need to get something to drink or whatever. 
 

Q.  Obviously this is a dream come true, having grown up here and played here and played at Pine Hills. Realistically, over this weekend, what is your dream other than winning the whole tournament, but realistically now having played a couple of practice rounds out there and seeing what the women are doing out there, what do you think it would take for you to have a successful weekend here?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: I have to keep my concentration on my golf game.  I have found over the last three days how distracted it can be, how distracting it can be with all the crowds and all the people wishing me well.  I actually talked with Pat Bradley a bit when I was playing because I said if anybody knows how to deal with this it is you.  She gave me some good advice:  When I am inside the ropes, it is time for me to play my game and all -- I don't know -- nobody knows in  golf from one day to the next what is going to happen.  I'd like to be able to say that I am going to make the cut and win the tournament or finish in the top 10 or whatever.  I don't know.  I have been playing well.  My game is in good shape and I think this -- if I can keep my concentration where it needs to be, while I am hitting shots, I am going to be fine.  I believe I will make the cut and be playing on the weekend. 
 

Q.  You played Blackwolf a couple times before this week and whether or not you were asked by the women on the Tour who were playing here for the first time what are two or three points that you would bring to their attention as to what to expect from Blackwolf Run?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Well, you know, you have got to be accurate with your shots into the greens.  I didn't realize we were going to be playing the golf course quite as lengthy as it is.  But, in that regard, you have got to rocket your drives out there; get them in good position and hopefully be able to read the greens accurately. 
 
MARTHA NAUSE: People have asked me if I have played it a lot and, you know, I have said:  No, I have only played it a couple of times.  So nobody is really coming for advice. 
 

Q.  You were asking Pat about the gallery attention, how to handle it.  Is it comparable to winning the tournaments that you have won out here, that sort of following, and attention or is it even more so here because of your home?
 
MARTHA NAUSE: I think it is more so because I am home.  A lot of people that I have known through the years back in high school and everything are coming up to me and it is -- it is just a lot -- much more attention and I am not sure everybody that has come out even understands the magnitude of this tournament and what we, as golfers, are trying to do.  So everybody wants your attention and:  Hey, remember me?  No, I am sorry, I don't, you know, that sort of thing and it is just -- it is incredible.  Did I answer your question? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
MARTHA NAUSE: Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT