NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 14, 2001
Mario Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   We need to put a little more pressure on their defensemen.  It doesn't matter who you are, if you have pressure on, you are, you are going to make mistakes and that's what we have to do. 
 
Q.  Will you have Kovalev on your line?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   I think so.  
 
Q.  Do you feel good?  Rested up a little bit? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah.  
 
Q.  What do you think of the relationship between your coach and Jaromir; seems like a little bit of tension there? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   You know, what happened this year is between the two of them.  Obviously, at times they have a disagreement, but, you know, we have to put that behind us now.  We have one goal in mind; that's to win the Stanley Cup.  Things have been great since the beginning of the playoffs. 
 
Q.  A lot has been made here of him not going in.  What happened after the time out on the power play?  
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   I didn't see.  I was on the ice.  He came out afterwards.  I couldn't tell you.  I was on ice and, you know, to tell you the truth, I didn't notice that he wasn't on the ice.  I know he came on, you know, 30 or 40 seconds left, but I couldn't tell you. 
 
Q.  He said the shot to Holik hurt his shoulder  --
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   You know, every time you are injured, it's going to be a tough  -- tough to fight through it, to play through, especially when you have the puck most of the time, like he does.  He likes to carry the puck, and especially in the corners.  He's big and strong, and that's where he plays most of the game.  So, it's a difficult situation, but as you said many times before, it's the playoffs and he's going to try to play. 
 
Q.  Some of the Devils have said that as a team, you guys like to carry the puck in rather than dump it, with that style of defense they play is that tough for you?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   It's tough because they always have guys in good position, and that's something we looked at.  Against a team like that, you're going to have to dump it in once in a while when there's nothing open and make sure you put enough pressure to create some turnovers. 
 
Q.  After the Washington series, it was suggested the team would need more from Jagr for the team to win, of you satisfied effort-wise?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   It's been amazing since he came back from his shoulder injury, and, you know, you can see it in Game 7, he really gave us a chance to win against Buffalo, with three assists.  He controlled the tempo of the game, he's a great leader and that's all you can ask for. 
 
Q.  How important would it be to take a game and go home with the series tied? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   You look at the playoffs, home ice is not that important.  We've won probably more games on the road than at home.  So but, you know, it's nice to come back in your own building, hopefully with 1-1 tie and take it from there. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT