NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 12, 2001
Mario Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mario, they controlled the game as it wore on.  They were doing it  --

MARIO LEMIEUX:   I think we got a little tired at the end.  Our goal was to come in here and be tied or ahead going into the third.  Almost accomplished that, but they scored late in the second, and they scored another in the third.  So, they really took advantage of their opportunities they had and scored a couple on the powerplay, and that really hurts, especially on the road.

Q.  On the other hard, you guys had chances early?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   We played a good first period.  The second period, I thought we sat back a little too much and gave them too many opportunities. 

Q.  Is the team a little bit  tired? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Oh, yeah, you look at their lines, all four lines can skate and can make plays.  That's the great thing.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Just seems that that's the way we have been playing really in the playoffs.  We have one great period, and then we change it for some reason, not on purpose.  That's something that we have to talk about, especially between periods and doing the same things earlier in the game that were working.  That's something we are going to have to do. 

Q.  Talk about Bobby Holik? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   He played a good game. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Obviously, it was a very emotional series against Buffalo, and to win in overtime and not getting much rest, just a day or so, I think it showed in the third period.  Now we have two full days to get ready for the next game.

Q.  Talk about the Devils offense, their job on defense  --

MARIO LEMIEUX:   No, they are a great club.  They didn't win the Cup for nothing last year.  They have a great defensive team and they have a great offense at the same time.  They have a great system.  It's tough to play against the Devils.  If you get 20 shots, that's a lot.  So, when you have your opportunities, you have to take advantage of it.  So you have to fight for your checks and you have to work hard for every shot that you get. 

Q.  Was it frustrating tonight? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Well, it's always frustrating when you're not winning.  That's why we are here.  But we have lost some games in the playoffs so far and we've been able to bounce back. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   No, they always play the same.  They have a great system.  They play hockey ice.  They have a great defense and don't take chances; a great way for them to play.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Well, as I said before, I think we sat back a little bit too much.  We didn't force their defensemen as much as we did in the second and first.  And they got a lot more shots because of that, so it's something that we have to work on.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   It's the playoffs. 

Q.  ... 13 hours, was that enough, did you feel fatigued, personally? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   The playoffs are grueling.  You are not going to feel great the whole time, and you are just going to get your rest when you can and hopefully feel good by the next game.  

Q.  Do you need to change anything? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   We are going to go home, look at films and have a new game plan when we come back.

Q.  The thinking about not staying here and going back  --

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Mother's Day. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   I think it's a combination.  Any time you are not up to par, it is easier to defend against us.  But as I said before, we are playing a great team, a great defensive team.  And they are the champs and they are the champs for a reason:  They have four good lines and great defense, great goalies.  So, they are not easy to play against.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT