NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 11, 2001
Mario Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   The last couple years, New  Jersey has been one of the best teams out there.  They have no weaknesses.  When you look at their team, they have a great goalie, obviously one of the best in the world.  Great defensemen.  A great offensive line.  They are a tough team to play against.  
 
Q.  Such a short turnaround between series; is that going to help you guys or hurt you in terms of being prepared?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Well, we are going to be tired from Game 7.  We didn't get much sleep last night, but you have to be ready in the playoffs.  Hopefully we can get some rest tonight. 
 
Q.  The National Hockey League is pretty happy about having Pittsburgh playing New  Jersey; on paper it is a good match-up?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   It is.  I think it is exciting for everybody.  Obviously, it is a pretty good story.  To be able to advance and to compete for the Stanley Cup is something that we've been thinking about for a while.  
 
Q.  In order for to you win this series  -- what is vital ?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Well, we have to take have to play good defense.  I think New  Jersey proved that the last couple years that; something we talked about quite a bit before the season ended and in the playoffs.  And, of course, goaltending is going to be key.  Hedberg's defense is definitely going to be the key.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about Johan?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   He's been great.  Not only the last couple rounds, but since we got him about three weeks before the season ended.  He's gained a lot of confidence, came in, played very well.  We lost one game before the playoffs, but he's focused.   He's the real deal.  He's very quick, aggressive, things you like in a goalie.  He's got a lot of confidence right now.  So it's been great for us. 
 
Q.  How do you feel personally right now, how is it for you after the comeback?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   It feels great.  That's one of the reasons that I came back is to be able to compete for the Stanley Cup.  When I looked at our team this year, we had a chance to go all the way and we have a lot of talent -- all of the pieces in the puzzle, get some experience in there, and I'm able to help in that department.  This is the best time of our lives, really, to do something special and I think everybody realizes that in Pittsburgh.  
 
Q.  Are you enjoying this?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Oh, yes.  If you are not enjoying this time of year, you are in the wrong business.  So, it's been a great ride since I came back.  Certainly right now, it's been a great experience for all of us, just being able to compete for the Cup.  
 
Q.  Do you have more perspective now, are you able to appreciate it?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Sometimes you don't really realize what you're doing, and, you know, after a long career, you realize how tough it is to get to the Conference Finals.   And not too many teams have the opportunity or players have the opportunity to do so throughout their career.  So when it is there, you have to take advantage of the opportunity and give it everything you've got.  
 
Q.  Wearing the two hats, do you have to in your mind have a sense of how different --
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   I was always a player.  I just happened to combine the two in the situation I was in.  I had the power to dictate where the franchise was going and I was fortunate enough to get some great people to support financially and buy the team time, and it was a great opportunity.  I've always been a player since I was a young boy and that really has not changed in my mindset. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the changes you made in the third period last night and then will that carry over tomorrow night?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   I'm not sure.  I'm not sure.  Ask the coaches about that. 
 
Q.  Will you have two different lines available?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Exactly.  Last night was great.  Once Jagr got on the line, you could see the change  -- the game really changed.  You know, they could not put their checking line on Jagr; so it's a lot tougher to defend him.  
 
Q.  Is there anything this team could do that would surprise you?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Well, I think we have a lot of confidence that we can go all the way and win the Stanley Cup -- (inaudible) -- to be successful in the playoffs, and right now, we have a chance to win and that's where we have to go.  
 
Q.  Is there any feeling of destiny?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   I don't know.  In a couple of those games, we came so close to elimination and coming back, winning last night, winning in overtime  -- you never know.  Everybody has got a great chance to compete for the Cup, and if you believe that you can do it, and your teammates believe it, you can accomplish a lot of great things. 
 
Q.  When you guys came in at the beginning of the season against the New Jersey Devils   --
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, that was a big game.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT