NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 19, 1996
Mario Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You watch a lot of hockey.  You must miss the game tremendously?

MARIO LEMIEUX: Actually, I didn't miss it that much in the first couple of months, but down the stretch and in the playoffs I started to miss it; that is when I decided to start riding my bike and get back in and work out on the ice.


Q.  You had a phenomenal first half of the year. What do you attribute that to, physically and emotionally?

MARIO LEMIEUX: Physically I was feeling pretty good until a couple of weeks ago, and my back was in great shape.  It wasn't giving me much problems on the ice.  I think that was the key for me to go out and enjoy the game and enjoy every game, and being able to go out and perform at a level that I want.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)

MARIO LEMIEUX: I think so, especially in the States, you know, for some people that don't understand hockey that much.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE.) 

MARIO LEMIEUX: It gives the fans the opportunities to see the players in different situations, one-on-one, and doing different things, and it is all exciting to watch; who is the fastest skater; who hits the targets; who has the hardest shot.  It is different.  It seems that the fans really enjoy this event.  It is the way to go, I think.


Q.  The players feel that the league is really trying to make hockey a more popular sport.

MARIO LEMIEUX: I think that is what they are trying to do.  You have got to try to promote -- whatever kind of work you get in, you try to promote it and get it the best you can.  I think this is a good way to do it, making everybody see it.


Q.  What is special being in Boston here?

MARIO LEMIEUX: Playing in front a hometown crowd, I am going to have a lot people here at the game.  Not having to travel for the game, and just staying at home, the whole thing, that comes with just playing in your hometown.  It is going to be great for me.


Q.  Somebody says it is more hectic because it is your own town and --

MARIO LEMIEUX: I still just have to show up for the game and be on time.  Other than that, talking  to you guys today....


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT