NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 2, 2002
Mario Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  People were assuming that this could be a line at the Olympics with Paul and Joe Sakic.  Would you like that to happen?  How did you think it went out there today with that trio?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  It went pretty well.  We missed a few plays here and there.  But, you know, any time you can play with these two players, it would be very, very special.  Obviously, they're very skilled.  They have a lot of speed.  Complements my game.  You know, a couple practices together and sit down and talk to them would make a big difference.  
 

Q.  You've been pretty sure about Paul playing with you.  How confident are you?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  I'm just saying that because we practiced together in Calgary.  I haven't talked to Pat Quinn or Grezt.  You know, he's the obvious choice, obviously, with a lot of speed on the right side, sees the ice well. 
 

Q.  A lot of first-time All-Stars.  Talk about the fun it was for you scoring a goal, tying Gretzky's record? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  It was kind of a different All-Star Game.  A lot of young kids coming up now that have been in the league for a couple years.  It's nice to see, to have a chance to play with these young guys, see up close how good they are.  It was a great two days for all of us.  
 

Q.  About tying Gretzky's record?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  I guess the more you play these games you have a chance to beat some of the records.  I've been here I think ten times now, I've missed a few because of injuries.  The more you play, get a few goals here and there, eventually you're going to get to the top.  
 

Q.  Did Khabibulin have you shaking your heads?  What makes him so good? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  Just his size, obviously, and his quickness.  He's one of the top in the league, obviously.  Very sound technically.  He's always in the right position.  Doesn't give bad rebounds, which is the key for a good goalie.  All the rebounds go in the bad areas where you have to regroup and start all over again.  You know, he's been playing great for a while now.  
 

Q.  Not only Khabibulin but all the goalies seemed to play well.  You said it was a different kind of All-Star Game.  Usually the goalies don't take the spotlight in these games. 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  Yeah, it was a little bit different than the last few that I've been involved in.  Not as much three on O's and two on O's as in the past.  It was a little bit different.  The goalies, all of them played very well.  They were tested a couple times from close range and they all did well.  It was nice to see for a change.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT