NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 21, 2001
Mario Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Will you be on that line with Marty and Kovy tomorrow? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   You saw the lines today. 
 
Q.  Yeah?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   That's what it looks like. 
 
Q.  It's a good combination.  Obviously, you've got a fast skater, a creator and a guy with a really hard shot?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, I think when a team is struggling, you just try to mix it up a little bit, and that's what we are trying to do, create some different line combinations and see if it works. 
 
Q.  Is there any combination you haven't tried yet?  Do you expect to play a more conservative style tomorrow?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   We're not even going to talk about how we are going to play.  We are going to go out tomorrow and play hard and try to win a big game.  We're not going to talk about the name plan. 
 
Q.  Kevin just said that this club  -- in the Final Four, and this club is not that much veteran than you, but obviously you have to play at a level higher than you are playing; is that a fair appraisal of what is going on? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   No, they are a good club.  Obviously they have got 20 good players on the ice, and there's no weaknesses on that team.  And they have got a great system.  That's what makes their team so much better than the other teams, is they play together and they know exactly what they are doing on the ice.  It makes it tough to go against a team like that.  They have got great goals.  
 
Q.  You talk about how great you are, do you have to beat them at their own game to win this series, frustrate them more, create more turnovers like that?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, if you look at the last two games, they had many two-on-ones, three-on-twos, and odd-man breaks, so we've got to limit those.  
 
Q.  After the way the last couple of games went, was that extra off day almost the best thing that could happen, just get away from everything and forget about it for a day?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, right now, I think a week off would be nice, regroup.  We don't have a week off; we have a couple days off.  Go back at it tomorrow and just play hard.  We believe that we can win and see what happens tomorrow night. 
 
Q.  Does there need to be an attitude adjustment in any way, get nasty, get angry? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   You just get  -- have some dedication  -- dedicated to your teammates, to the organization, have some pride.  Just go in there believing that you can win, and if you believe you can win, then you're going to have a good effort and maybe come out on top.  
 
Q.  Do you guys have to win or do you have to have them lose?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   No, we can go in there and win.  We've done it in the past with some tough situations, and that's because we believe that we can go on the road and win a big hockey game and come back in our building.  So, we believe we can go in there and beat these guys. 
 
Q.  What's different than the regular season when you guys handled them really well?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Well, right now, they are at the top of their games, obviously, the way they are playing.  Every time there's a turnover, they have four guys involved in a play at all times, and that makes it tough to play against, and they are just playing as well as they ever have played. 
 
Q.  You've been down this road before in '92, with the Capitals, up 3-1, but you won three straight.  So you have that belief  --
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, it's happened before.  We are not the only team with who has done it in the past.  And they did it last year, the Flyers.  So all that matters, to win one game and once you win that game, it's 3-2 and you win the next game and then it's Game 7 and anything can happen.  But, you know, you've still got to believe that we can go in there and have a big effort and win a game in there.  Every time you're down and you're facing elimination, you know, it's something that guys have to stick together and regroup and believe in each other and if we do that, we've got a better chance to win. 
 
Q.  Conversely, you've been on teams that were supposed to win series but did not.  When you are the favorite and you lose a game, let's say like the Devils are expected to win tomorrow night, does doubt then start to seep in when you are the favorite and you cannot put a team away?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, I think teams get a little nervous.  That's tough, especially they don't want to come back here in Pittsburgh and have to play a Game 6.  They want to get some rest, I'm sure, and that's all they are talking about, I'm sure, is finish us off and get a few days before the Finals.  As I say, you never know.  If we win the next game, then come back in here and anything can happen.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT