NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 20, 2001
Jaromir Jagr
Mario Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What have you seen in the last few games that makes you think that you can beat that team?  What do you see that might be able to be avoided, gives you any hope? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  It's tough to say.  Obviously, they dominated last two games, and just didn't give us any good opportunities, so, you know, obviously they are a great team, and won the Cup last year, and they are just really deep.  They have got four good lines and just really, really tough to play against.  There's just no room out there.  But, you know, you've still got to keep working, and our focus should be the next game, and try to win the next game and then get back in the series.  
 

Q.  Guys like you and Mario, obviously, the two high-profile guys on this team, do you feel any special responsibility to try to lift your team at this point?
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  Of course, speaking for myself, I didn't score a goal yet this series, and I know it's  -- if I score a goal, it's going to be a better chance for the team to win.  That's my goal for the next game, and I still think, you know, we change something  -- I don't know yet, I don't know what yet.  But obviously, if we going to play the same way we play the last two games, we don't have much chance.  But if we change something, I think we can do something.  
 

Q.  What do each of you remember about the last two times you were down 3-1 in the series and coming back to win? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  Obviously, you change the way you play.  And I'm sure the coaching staff is going to come up with something new for us to try the next game and follow the game plan.  So, I think the main thing is to be  -- to be prepared as a team, and to follow the game plan, and if it's a good one, then maybe you have a chance to win. 
 

Q.  What did you change the two previous times? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  Well, I think against Washington, it was more of a  -- you know, really patient, waiting in the neutral zone.  It was strictly defense and then taking advantage of our opportunities. 
 

Q.  Do you think it is a matter of maybe gambling more, taking more chances to try to break more often? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  No, I think it is the opposite against that team.  The more chances you take, the more they are going to have odd-man rushes, because their D (defense) just jumps into play all the time.  So, I think it's the opposite. 
 

Q.  You have to beat their game? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  It's working for them.  
 

Q.  That's why it is their game. 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  Yeah, it is their game.  They are playing very well.  They wait for their chances, and as soon as they get the puck, then they turn it over, and they have got four guys on the rush.  Every time they get the puck, they have got some good skaters back there that are joining the play, and, you know, it's tough to defend against.  
 

Q.  Too late to try to punish their defense get them  -- try to wear them down? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  Really the way they play, there's not that many opportunities, because they back off so much into their zone, and having their two forwards, you know, in front of them all the time, it's tough to get to them.  
 

Q.  Did you guys underestimate their defensive personnel, the guys they have back there? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  No.  I mean, if you look at their team, they are really solid, all the way around.  That's what we said from the start.  They don't have a weakness on their team.  You know, from the first player to the 20th player, it's just a great hockey club.  
 

Q.  The way you talked yesterday, except for working out and trying out and no solution to beat the trap  -- is it that? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  Yeah, we've tried a lot of different things against the trap, but it seems that everything we do, we fall back into the trap, so it's  -- 
 

Q.  What did you try, at least? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  I don't know, you tell me.  I'll try it.  (Smiles). 
 

Q.  How well do you know Elias and Sykora and what impresses you about their game? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  Well, I saw them when they play in Czechoslovakia, and I can't-- actually I play with Elias some days in Czech.  They were very talented players back then, and, you know, they have got the sense for the game and they are quick.  Plus, they play together for a long time and they know about each other.  
 

Q.  How far has Patrik come since then? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  Well, it looks like he's getting better and better every game, every season.  
 

Q.  Your mood seemed very down after the game yesterday.  Has there been enough time to get over that or do you still need another day or so? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  It was very frustrating for me.  We were down 2-1, and we knew it's probably the most important game for the season, and they shut us down like that, beat us 5-0.  Could be a lot worse, if Johan didn't stop almost everything.  They didn't give us any chance.  I've never been that embarrassed in hockey life like that.  
 

Q.  Is there any feeling, like "regardless of how we play the game on Tuesday, we can't go out like that.  We can't have a game like that"? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  It's understandable, yeah.  You know, if we're going to play the same way, we're going to lose the series, there's no question about it.  You know, whatever we do, it's not working, whatever they do, it's working against us.  That's why they score eight goals last two games and we score none.  But like I said before, I still believe that we can do it.  You know, if we find a way to somehow locate some chances and play good defense, shut-out their number one line, because they score almost every goal.  
 

Q.  Did you feel a similar way when you were down 3-1 in the other two series or is this much different? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  Well, you always remember last two games or last game.  That's why I was so frustrated after last night's game.  But against Washington, you know, I remember Game 4, we lost 8-0 at home, and I remember Mario stand up in the dressing room and we change  -- even it was my first year, second year, Mario stand up and said, "You know, this way we played, it doesn't work.  Let's play a different game."  You know, play one-four, play good defense.  We won in Washington 5-2, we won at home and we went to Washington and we won Game 7.  It was pretty similar, because we lost Game 8-1 or 8-0.  That's what I remember.  
 

Q.  Do you think it will take a major shift in strategy like that again to change this around? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  Yeah, I think, you know, you've got to try to do something different, obviously, and something that teams have never tried before, and hopefully we can come up with something before Tuesday and try it and see if it works.  
 

Q.  This team changed its personality about a week before the playoffs and went with more of a defensive system; you have to play defense in the playoffs.  Does that take away from your offense when you do that, because you have to think about what you are doing defensively.  Would you have been better off putting the defensive system earlier in the year and how do you measure that boring style against selling tickets into the building?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  Yeah, to play well, you know, in the playoff, you have to have a good defense.  If you don't have a good defense, you are not going to last too long.  But you're right.  During the regular season, obviously, we were a team over the years that has been entertaining for the fans.  We've had some great talents here, great offensive talents, and we like to entertain our fans.  
 

Q.  How hard is it to click the button and change it? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  It's not that hard.  If you give yourself enough time to do it, you know, we should be able to do it.  
 

Q.  Is a week or ten days enough? 
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  No, I mean  -- 
 

Q.  It started in New  Jersey right?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  I think it was more than ten days.  The main thing, really is to understand what system you want to play and, you know, as professionals, it doesn't take that long to adjust to it.  
 

Q.  What's it going to take to get past the frustration to get you guys going?
 
MARIO LEMIEUX:  Things happen in life, and obviously, we are all trying.  We want to win here, and that's always been our goal here, to win the Stanley Cup.   So, it's not like we are not trying, but, you know, they are just a great team.  If you look at the games, you know, there's no opportunities.  All the opportunities come from the outside.  That's always tough to score a goal from  -- goals from the side boards.  But, you know, you've just got to keep trying, keep trying different things until it's over.  But it is frustrating, you know, when you are used to scoring goals and helping your team win, it is frustrating when you are not doing it, because you want to win so badly.  
 

Q.  You mentioned the Arnott line, their line, would you guys want to play more as a line against them?  Obviously not your choice, and it will be more difficult there, but is that a solution? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  I don't think so.  But it's only my opinion.  If I would be a coach, I would try to do same thing they did to us, you know, pick a line, like Holik's line and try to play against them.  You know, when the Arnott line plays with the other offensive line, it looks like their defense, entering the rush.  I think Rafalski is a big key for that line.  He's skating and even it's three-on-three, always make a four-on-three.  I think he is a key there.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT