NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 19, 2001
Mario Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Why are things not happening for you guys against the trap? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Have we played against a trap?  It's just like this here, can't get through it.  Nowhere to go. 

Q.  There's not going to be a white flag? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   No.  I think we have to show some pride in the jersey that we are wearing, and can't quit.  Although we are down against a great team 3-1, we've got to show up on Tuesday and try to win the game.  And whoever doesn't believe that we can win the game shouldn't make the trip.  You know, you've just got to keep working until the end, although it's tough to play against a team like that.  It's frustrating.  At times, they make you look pretty bad, but you've got to have some pride in the team that you're playing for.  That's part of being a professional.  You are not going to win the Stanley Cup every year, but you've got to try.  You've got to try your best, and sometimes it's not going to be enough.  Still, you've got to try. 

Q.  How did your game plan change from Thursday to tonight?  Were there changes in your plan from today? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   We made some adjustments, but obviously it didn't work out.  Just the neutral zone, there's just no room at all.  They just keep going back and back and back, and by the time you are in their zone, you've got to dump it in still.  Every time you come through the middle, there's four guys in the middle.  It's a great system.  Hopefully we can get a system like that one day here. 

Q.  Since there was nothing five-on-five, did you feel that the three first-period power plays were your chance to get up on them?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, especially early in the game.  If you get one or two, then you get some juice and you get everybody going.  It's much easier to play with a lead, obviously, especially against the Devils.  They have to step up a little bit and then we get a chance.  But if you fall two or three goals, you might as well go home early.

Q.  Is their PK as good  -- (inaudible) -- five-on-five deep?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, they just take away your options, and they take away the right the good ice, and they give you the bad ice, which is not what you want.  So, they are a great team, but we've still got to show some pride and come ready to play on Tuesday and see if we can win a game and maybe turn the series around.

Q.  There must be something, Toronto beat them and Carolina beat them, there must be some way to attack them? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Well, what is it?  (Laughs).

Q.  You've played against a lot of great teams in your career, the way they are playing now  --

MARIO LEMIEUX:   This is by far the best team.  When we played against Florida, they had a great defensive team, but not like this.  They have a great defense, a great system, first of all, but also some great offensive players.  Every time they turn the puck over, they get a good chance to score because their forwards are so talented and good with the puck, and they have a great transition, which is the key of having a successful team.  Every time you turn the puck over, you give it to your forwards and they know they are going to have some chances to score.  So that's a hell of a team we are playing, but once again, we've just got to come ready to play and not give up. 

Q.  What do they do that keeps you from scoring?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   They keep backing up.  I'm sure Larry tells them:  "Don't let anybody behind you."  They just keep backing up and their forwards are in front of them.  You know, you beat one guy and you beat another guy -- and just the red shirts, and give them credit.  They are a hell of a team. 

Q.  Jagr was saying there has never been a team more frustrated and he's never been more frustrated?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   It is frustrating to play against a great team.  You know if you are not winning, it's frustrating, because everybody is trying, obviously, and there's just no room.  The more you skate, it seems like the more you fall into the trap.  

Q.  With the last change in there, they still seemed to get Holik against you every time?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   I don't think we tried to do everything there.  We just rolled the lines.  It's been the way we've played for the last ten years.  We don't match up.  We are not a team that, you know, go on the ice and change at the right time.  You have to fight through some good checkers and still try to create some opportunities. 

Q.  Did you think they would be the best team in the series? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   From what I've seen, they are an amazing team.  Obviously, they have got a good system and they are committed to it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT