KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2015
Bill Snyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Texas Tech - 59, Kansas State - 44   
COACH SNYDER: -- you or me?   
 Q.  What could the defense do better second third and fourth quarter?  
COACH SNYDER: I would have to look at the film to give you a definitive answer.  I think we went after it a little bit more.  I think our guys knew a little bit more about what they had experienced in the first half and reacted to some of the schemes, not all of them, but some of the schemes a little bit better.  We were a little bit better on offense and consequently hit some time off the clock in that respect, our kicking game, with bun exception was -- did a pretty decent job to create some field position.   
To give you more definitive and more accurate answer, I would probably have to see the tape.   
 Q.  Is that your biggest fear, falling behind that quickly?  
COACH SNYDER: Well, yeah, we've just -- we've got to do a better job of being able to start ball games better.  I mean, it's that simple.  You go back and look at -- you take your pick of the past five, six ball games, we just have not been able to be functional in the first drive of the series, and that puts you behind and, you know, we come back and get a touchdown in there with Morgan Burns on the kickoff return, and they turn around and go back down.  We have to start better.  We've got to start better.   
 Q.  Is it the overall effort where you would like it?  They at least seem to be fighting back in the game?  
COACH SNYDER: Well, it's a mixed bag, in all honesty.  Proud of so many young guys that did exactly that, exactly what you say, but there is some disappointments there, too; a few, not many.   
 Q.  Did you pass the ball more than you expected to going into this game?  
COACH SNYDER: No, I knew we -- it's just who we are.  I mean, we've got to be able to throw the ball, and have balance in our offense become a productive offensive football team.  If we get -- if we're one-side and had you're a decent football team then we're in trouble.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
COACH SNYDER: He really did, I was so proud of him, he went up and made some plays.  He's a big, physical wide receiver but he was very competitive for so many throws, and he made some of the those heavily contested catches that I just felt awful good about him.  He struggles, he doesn't get to practice very much during the course of the week, and -- but he's competitive and he competes, so I'm proud of him.   
 Q.  The last time you lost six in a row was back in '89.  I know so much has changed since then, but is there any familiarness to this at all?  
COACH SNYDER: Well, no, I mean, we had -- I mean, you know why we lost six ball games in a row.  I was pleased with the progress that our football team made losing six, seven or eight in a row, or ten in a row, whatever it was, I think it was maybe nine, eclectically, but I was proud of that football team because they got better every single week.  I'm proud of a number of things that this football team is doing, but there are some things that we just haven't been able to improve at that are disheartening to me, and one of them is just being able to start ball games better.   
 Q.  Bill, do you feel like sometimes it's one step forward and two steps back with this group?  
COACH SNYDER: Well, I don't know, maybe a step forward and a step back, but probably I would say a step back and then a step forward.  Because, you know, the first thing is how you start the ball game, and we're not starting very well.   
 Q.  Coach, their quick scoring, is that something you expected?  
COACH SNYDER: Well, you know, we just didn't respond to things very well.  It's not rocket science, just raise up and throw the ball up there, he runs for 10, and raise up and throw it over there, and he runs for 10; same thing they did to us last year, in the ball game.  Everybody else does the same thing.  We have to get up and play things better.   
 Q.  On that first drive -- 22 yards there.  Was it difficult not getting Charles Jones involved earlier because you were behind the eight ball?  
COACH SNYDER: On I'm not sure --   
 Q.  By the time he touched the ball you guys were on the -- they had scored a couple times?  
COACH SNYDER: Well, you know, no, that wasn't the issue.  It didn't have anything to do with that, it just had to do with, you know, being able to get into the right things and run the right things and execute appropriately, and it wasn't whether Charles had it or not.   
 Q.  Anything that you would do to start better the last few games?  
COACH SNYDER: Well, it all starts out, as it would any week, in being able to, first and foremost making a commitment to wanting to improve and, you know, backs are against the wall, they still have an opportunity to achieve what they want to achieve, but you have to have a commitment to do it.   
We have to have guys step up and say, hey, I'm in, 100%, and then, you know, address what do we need to do in order to correct the mistakes that we have made and then continue to work.  And I will say this, you know, and I've said this in front of you all, you know, that we have invested ourselves from practice environment better in the last week and a half, so we've made some progress.   
I shared with you, just like I've shared with our players, you know, it takes time to reap the results of the efforts that you put in, and you can't -- you can't go out and practice accurately and correct mistakes and have enthusiasm for it and all that goes along with it and do it a couple of days and expect a great dividend on the weekend.   
You guys put money in the bank and it doesn't -- it takes a while to accumulate with some additional funds.  So the dividends come from extended preparation and extended good work in practices, but we have made progress in that respect, and I think, you know, you see a little bit of the pay-off but not collectively yet.   
 Q.  Bill, do you have an idea of the extent of Cody's injury?  
COACH SNYDER: I do not, no.   
 Q.  What was it that you did tell the players after this one?  
COACH SNYDER: After what?   
 Q.  What was it that you did tell the players after this one, Coach?  What was it that you shared?  
COACH SNYDER: Some of it is very personal that I wouldn't share in here, and part of it there were some young guys and segments that I was extremely proud of, and I allowed them to understand that, because I was, and am.  I mentioned in particular Morgan Burns.  Morgan gets on the field, plays about 17 snaps on defense on long drives, and turns right around and gets invested in kickoff returns, and runs all over the field and makes some positive things happen there, when I know he's gassed, and I appreciate that kind of effort, and some of the little things that take place and there are a few others that I shared, same thing, same thing with.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Coach.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT