TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: KANSAS STATE v OREGON
December 31, 2012
Bill Snyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for Coach Snyder.   
   
 Q.   Your 16 goals, where did they come from, when did you draw those up, what was the inspiration for those?  
COACH SNYDER:   It's been a process over a long period of time.   Really, if you were to look at them, you would see they're intrinsic values that you would teach your children and everybody in this room would teach their children.   
It's common sense more than anything else.   I think a long time ago, the number wasn't always 16.   I think it started with 12, then went to 14, then 16.   
You know, to me, it represents those things that you would want, as I said, your children, you'd want young people to be responsive to which we believe helps provide opportunities for success in all facets of their life.   Certainly, if that's true, it would help create success on the football field, as well.   
Probably my mother, as much as anything, was responsible for whatever intrinsic values I believe in.   
   
 Q.   Coach, 72 hours in front of the game.   What are the final details that you concern yourself with when you get this close to it?   
COACH SNYDER:   Well, we've been involved in details for quite some time now.   We try to approach it just like we would during the course of a season.   So every day has a significant meaning in regards to how we meet and how we practice.   We try to keep it consistent with what we've done throughout the course of the year or throughout several decades.   
We're on really what we would identify as a Wednesday routine.   So we have a certain practice routine, certain meeting routine.   Tomorrow will be a normal Thursday of the week, so on down the road.   
We'll practice.   We'll have a reasonably heavy practice this afternoon.   A little lighter tomorrow.   Not at all on Friday probably.   
   
 Q.   I think it's fair to call you an old‑school coach.   You changed uniforms quite a long time ago when you came to Kansas State.   What do you think of Oregon's uniforms, so many different types that they have?  
COACH SNYDER:   Well, I see quite a few of them now that we watch videotape of all their ballgames.   
I think they do a nice job with them.   We're a Nike school, as well.   I know Phil very well, I know his relationship with Oregon.   I know they want to promote Nike as well as they can, and certainly have done so.   
I think one of our players kind of said it the best.   Oregon is Oregon and they do what Oregon does, and that's a credit to them.   We're Kansas State, and we do what Kansas State does.   I think it's a credit to our young guys and our program, as well, so...   
   
 Q.   How important is it for your team to not get caught up in the speed of Oregon's offense and to kind of play their game?   What have you told the team about playing your game, sticking to what you just said, which is play like Kansas State?  
COACH SNYDER:   Well, I think we've tried to be consistent throughout the course of the year, throughout our tenure as Kansas State.   We're like any team in the country, I think.   We have our system that is designed to enhance the capabilities of every player we have in the program, utilize the capabilities of every player we have in the program.   We try to stick to that particular system and not change it.   
In our conference, we play against teams that have the same type of tempo as the University of Oregon does, a few that are reasonably fast in regards to how quickly they snap the ball.   I don't know if any of them are quite as fast as Oregon, but very close to that.   We have a way that we practice against that, so, you know, we have some familiarity with it.   
Now, as I said so many times, the tempo of a team's offense is one thing; it's the players that execute it that is something else.   So that has to be a major concern, as well.   The University of Oregon has tremendously talented young guys that execute their offense.   It certainly is always going to create an issue for any defense anywhere.   
But, again, we have to be us and hope that that's sufficient.   
   
 Q.   You talked about Oregon's speed.   How important will it be for your guys to be able to tackle in space on Thursday?   
COACH SNYDER:   Well, that goes without saying, I think.   That is true in any ballgame that you play.   If you can't pursue and you can't tackle, then you probably can't win.   
   
 Q.   Is it even more so in this game because of their speed and the way they play?  
COACH SNYDER:   I think it's significantly important in every game that you play.   Yes, speed is certainly a factor.   If you miss against a slow guy, you might get another shot at him, you know.   If you miss against a fast guy, you probably don't.   
   
 Q.   When you came back, did you expect to be here?   Did you expect to win the Big 12 again?   
COACH SNYDER:   Well, you know me as well as anybody.   I don't think that far ahead.   My concerns always have been a day at a time, kind of win the day.   
Our whole approach is centered around consistent improvement day in and day out.   That's what we've always tried to do.   As I've shared with our players, if you follow that process and get committed to that process, then the positive results will be there.   What they are remains to be seen.   
But, no, I didn't sit around thinking, Okay, where will we go, other than we need to get better.   That's kind of always been the approach.   
   
 Q.   Bill, is it only fitting these two teams meet now?   Early in the season, a lot was made of Kansas State not playing Oregon.   Then you were ranked 1 and 2 in November, thought you might go to the national championship and play each other, now you end up here in the Fiesta Bowl.   Fitting to finally settle it on the field?  
COACH SNYDER:   Well, I don't know how to answer the question.   I don't know what 'fitting' really means in this respect.   
I think it's a tremendous matchup, yes.   As I've said before, I think Oregon is an amazing football team.   Like us, not that we're an amazing football team, but like us, they slipped up one time, as we did, and that's what brought the game together, I guess.   
So, you know, we go where we're told to go, play who we're told to play.   
   
 Q.   This being Collin's last game for Kansas State, what would be the fitting end for him and what do you predict for him at the next level?  
COACH SNYDER:   That remains to be seen.   I just know that Collin is a wonderful young man, talented young man.   I would like to think that he'll have some opportunities after this ballgame.   I think he will.   
But what would be a fitting end?   For him to be Collin, and Collin knows that.   That's the way Collin is.   Collin wouldn't attempt to be anybody that he's not.   
When you talk to Collin, for Collin it's not about Collin.   For Collin, it's about his teammates, being the best teammate that he can be, be a quality leader in our program, care about each and every person in our program.   Those are the things that he'll probably share with you.   
   
 Q.   Coach, this program has thrived so much on routine.   You do the same thing every week.   How hard is it to get into a routine with the insanity of a bowl game and how do you adjust to that?  
COACH SNYDER:   Well, it is difficult.   You try to move your community to another community.   You try as hard as you can to replicate a schedule that you might be acclimated to in our own community.   
But time changes.   We don't have Wednesday press conferences.   This is Wednesday of a normal game week for us.   So that's a little different.   There's a variety of different things that pop in that are different.   It's just a matter of doing it, don't make a big deal about it, try to get back onto what your routine is, if the time schedule allows you to.   
   
 Q.   Sometimes that routine can get a little bit of a curve ball with all of the events.   Has there been anything resembling a party for this team whatsoever throughout the whole week?  
COACH SNYDER:   I think the young guys in our program have had the opportunity to enjoy the Scottsdale area.   I wouldn't say it was a festive party that they were involved in, but they've gotten around to see the community.   They had a dinner last night.   
You have to have some balance in all of it.   I mean, even when we're in Manhattan, Kansas, it's not 24/7 football.   They've got school and a lot of other things that they have to do and try, in some sense of reality, to have somewhat of a normal life.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT