CACTUS BOWL: KANSAS STATE VS UCLA
December 23, 2017
Bill Snyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Welcome to the 2017 Cactus Bowl Media Day.  Coach Snyder is the fourth person in the history of college football to be inducted into the College Hall of Fame as an active coach.
COACH SNYDER: First of all, let me say thank you to the people of the Cactus Bowl and the Yellow Jackets who have really been very, very gracious to us.  We've had a nice day up to this point in time at Gainey Ranch, a very nice facility and people who also have been gracious to us.  And having spent a number of bowl events out here, it's not the exception to the rule.  A lot of great people and they pay close attention to our players and to our program.  I appreciate that.
I want all of you up here, which most of you are Manhattan people, realize that you need to promote us because we don't go to bowl games, you don't get these vacations.  I hope you understand that.
The players that we have in the room, I think, are just representative of the young guys that we have in our program.  I'm very proud of them.  Not only fine football players, but also as you've heard, pay close attention to their academic progress and getting their degrees and make their education important to them.  I appreciate that a great deal.  So that being said, questions.
Q. Do you feel at all like this is a chance to get some sort of revenge for the Alamo Bowl a couple of years back?
COACH SNYDER: Well, we don't play for revenge.  For us it's the old adage of 1-0, just a day at a time, a game at a time, and what happened in the past from any ballgame that we played is not really going to have an impact on this bowl game, look at it that way.
Q. Can you talk about the last five games, winning four and the ability to accomplish that and get to this particular bowl game?
COACH SNYDER: In each of the last two years, you know, we have finished extremely well in the latter half of the season.  And we put as the players will tell you, we put a great deal of emphasis on being able to finish and finishing well.  And that's finishing a play well, finishing the day well, finishing a practice well, finishing a week well, doing everything we do in finishing ball games well and certainly finishing the season well.  I just need to put more emphasis on getting started.
That was the issue.  So hopefully and part of the dialogue right now is that we need to be able to start this ballgame well.  And obviously if we play consistently and then finish well, then we'll have our marbles together, so to speak.  But I was proud of them for being able to come back when things had not gone -- we lost to, what, three of those four, whatever it was, by seven or less points.  I think four or five, seven and seven, were losses in there, one of them double overtime.  And you know the story.  You've been out there.
But those were not easy to take, quite obviously.  And I was proud of the young people in our program for being able to respond from that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT