KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2004
Jung Yeon Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Another 69, another good day out there.
JUNG YEON LEE:   Another good round.

THE MODERATOR:  Decided to finish the last hole, talk about how you played today.
JUNG YEON LEE:   I hit aggressive, so I want to finish 18 holes.  I don't want to wait until tomorrow in the morning, so I just keep playing.
Q.  What part of your game was working for you today?
JUNG YEON LEE:   Actually, everything is fine, chipping well, putting was good, and my driver was pretty far and stright, so everything is fine.
Q.  How dark was it when you were finishing, and was it a long day?
JUNG YEON LEE:   I can see the ball, so I decide to keep playing.
Q.  Can you talk about how long of a day it was?
JUNG YEON LEE:   It takes all day.  I waited on the second hole.  It starts on the second hole waiting every single hole.  It's a pretty long day to me.
Q.  Could you talk about the golf course and what you think of it now you've gone around it a couple of times?
JUNG YEON LEE:   I think the green speed is pretty good, and then the rough is thick and long, but the wind was blowing pretty hard today, so just to keep focused on my game, not think about what am I going to do, just keep focused on my game.
Q.  Obviously you've been playing well the last couple of weeks.  Is there anything in particular that's working best for you or why are you playing so well right now?
JUNG YEON LEE:   I think getting used to this LPGA Tour, because first year and second year I just a little bit nervous and not used to it.  This is my third year, so it's getting conformable, so keep focused on my game.
Q.  Let's get your birdie and bogey information.
JUNG YEON LEE:   First hole, I hit driver and it's about 124 yards, so I hit 9-iron and it's about six feet downhill.

And then the second hole, I hit driver and it's about 189 to the pin, and I hit 5-iron.  It was short of the green and I had a 2-putt.
Q.  2-putt from how far away?
JUNG YEON LEE:   It's about 20 yards.

And No. 3, I hit driver and it's about 116 yards to the pin.  I hit pitching wedge to about eight yards.  I used my putter and it just go in.
Q.  No. 7?
JUNG YEON LEE:   No. 7, I hit driver to 164 yards to the pin, and I hit 5-iron and it's about 12 feet.
Q.  Bogey on 14?
JUNG YEON LEE:   14, yes, I hit actually to the pin it's 133 yards, and I hit my 8-iron.  The wind was blowing right to left pretty hard, so I missed the green.
Q.  To the left?
JUNG YEON LEE: Yes, to the left.  And chipped it up about 5 feet, but I missed it to the left.

16, I hit driver to the right side in the rough.  I took a 6-iron to go under the tree, hit the tree and kicked left.  It's about 70 yards, and I used my 58.  It was like a 15 feet par putt and I missed it.

17, 5-iron, left to right pretty big wind and about maybe 7 feet downhill.

THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT