ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: DUKE v FLORIDA STATE
December 2, 2013
Bryan Stork
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your offensive line has stayed pretty much intact, very healthy all year, and they've just been devastated by injuries.   I wonder if you could talk about the importance to your offense this year with the ability to not only, A, most of you guys stay healthy, and B, when somebody does have to come out that you've got some guys who can play more than one spot. 
BRYAN STORK:   Yeah, we've got a lot of guys that can play multiple positions.   It's just important that we all stay healthy, to just be the same line in there, consistent every week.   We've got to take care of our quarterback.   I feel like a good offensive line always stays healthy no matter how bad they're hurting, and they're always in there week in, week out.   That's just what we're trying to do. 

Q.   The communications skills that you guys have with each other, making line calls and things like that, can you guys almost do it‑‑ do you know that to the left or the right of you that your guys are going to be doing certain things?   Can you guys almost communicate without line calls? 
BRYAN STORK:   Yeah, we could.   Yes, we definitely could.   I can look at the guys next to me and I can tell what they're thinking, and now that they're all more experienced and they're finally caught up, it's nice to have guys that are veterans now.   They know what I'm thinking, I know what they're thinking, and we're all on the same page. 

Q.   Can you talk about Cam Erving and his transition from defensive tackle to left tackle and just how much he's grown in the past couple years, and what it means to you guys to have him at that left tackle protecting Jameis's blind side?
BRYAN STORK:   It's always good to have a very skilled, athletic left tackle and a very dependable one, and Cam is all of those.   He was good at defensive line, too.   He's just a football player, and it's good to have someone like that on your side. 

Q.   I know y'all played Duke the last two years and beat them pretty soundly.   What are some of the main differences you see in this Duke team as compared to the last two teams that y'all have played?
BRYAN STORK:   I see a lot more execution.   They play fast.   They've got some fast guys.   I don't know what they did, but they've got some faster guys than what I remember, and they all play together.   They're very disciplined.   They've always been disciplined.   They're very smart, they play intelligent, and teams like that you've got to watch out for.   We're not taking them lightly.   We've got to prepare just like we do every week to play Duke. 

Q.   Just talk about what it's like going up against Timmy Jernigan in practice. 
BRYAN STORK:   It's always a battle.   I mean, he's the best defensive tackle I've ever played against, and he'll probably tell you I'm the toughest center he's ever played against.   Him and I, we make each other better and sometimes we can't always go against each other because of injuries and we've got to rest a certain body part, but for the most part when we go against each other, it's a war every day. 
But we've grown a great respect for each other, and I'm very blessed to have a guy that's that good go against me every day to make me better.

Q.   What is it about him?   What makes him the best defensive tackle you've ever played against? 
BRYAN STORK:   He's pretty strong.   Actually he's very strong.   He's the strongest guy on our team.   He's quick, he's athletic.   He could probably play tight end, he could play fullback.   He's a ball player and he's got quick hands.   He hits hard.   He's good at reading plays.   He's a compete defensive tackle. 

Q.   I just wanted to know what you made of Winston getting real fired up during the series against Florida and Jimbo kind of having to settle him down.   Do you like to see him get fired up like that, or do you as a veteran feel like you need to pull him aside and tell him to calm down?   What did you make of that scene? 
BRYAN STORK:   Well, the thing is Jameis is a competitor.   Sometimes it gets the best of him a little bit.   I've never seen somebody like him get up in Jimbo's face like that, but Jimbo calmed him down.   His competitiveness is out the window.   I've never met somebody so competitive. 
When I see that, I understand where he's coming from.   You know, but I just let him and Jimbo work that out.   But for the most part I like his spark he brings to the offense, his competitiveness.   That gets us going. 

Q.   You guys are so close to a National Championship game.   Do you try to block that out, or do you guys even think about it or talk about it as you get ready to play this game? 
BRYAN STORK:   I usually don't watch ESPN lately.   I'm taking it day by day.   Like today is Monday.   I'm going to go out, fix the Florida corrections and then I'm going to start preparing for Duke.   That's something on our team that we do a great job of is just taking it day by day, not getting ahead of ourselves, and we've just got to stay focused and take it literally one play at a time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT