RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2017
Melissa Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Disappointment at the end but how do you assess the round as a whole?  
MELISSA REID: Yeah, again, hit it good.  I had a lot of putts that I felt I hit good.  I thought I hit a good putt on the last to be honest.  I saw Anne's and it moved, and mine didn't move.  Just the way it goes sometimes.   
I felt I could have holed a few more putts out there.  I kind of shaved the hole a lot.  But overall, 69, I'm pretty happy with.   
 Q.  You knew you had a few shots to make up and you knew you would have to go aggressive.  Are you pleased with that aspect of how you approached today?  
MELISSA REID: Yeah, this morning the conditions were completely different.  It was a lot tougher for us I felt.  I felt the wind was up a little bit.  Obviously rain here and there.   
Didn't really put a foot wrong to be honest.  Just felt I could have shot 65 without doing much different.  Yeah, something in the 60s is always good on Saturday, moving day.   
 Q.  It's such a mental game, golf.  Where do you feel in terms of that aspect of your game as you go into the final day tomorrow, where you're going to have to shoot low again?  
MELISSA REID: Yeah, I've been working on that recently and my head's been a lot better than maybe what it was three weeks ago.  That's always a positive.  No matter what happens this week, I feel that I took a massive gain in the right direction.   
It would be really nice to finish with a low one tomorrow to at least give myself a chance.   
 Q.  Yesterday you said aggression was to be the ploy.  How did that work out for you on day three?  
MELISSA REID: I felt I played pretty well again.  Hit the ball really nicely.  Just had a lot of good putts not go in today.  But you know, apart from the putt on the last, which I felt I hit a good putt, just didn't move.  I felt like I played pretty well.   
I would have liked to have shot maybe a 65 but I felt that kind of the low scores were in the morning where the conditions were a lot calmer, sun was out, and it was slightly tougher for us this afternoon.   
 Q.  Final day, if you get the conditions, what is an achievable distance?  
MELISSA REID: I don't know.  I think if she goes to 16, eight shots to pick up on IK, the way she's playing this year, it's going to be difficult.  But I'll give it my best, all guns blazing and try to shoot a course record.   
 Q.  All guns a-blazing, that has to be it; aggression has to be the key again?  
MELISSA REID: Yeah, there's no point.  You have to give yourself a chance.  When opportunities come like this, you just have to play aggressive and do the best you can.  Try and make as many birdies as possible and try and put as much pressure on as you can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT