SOLHEIM CUP
September 18, 2015
Charley Hull
Melissa Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations to you both on a well fought match.  Really nice birdie there at the end.  Can you describe the tenor of this match and just how tight it was throughout the day?  
CHARLEY HULL: It was great.  We got off to a fast start.  It was brilliant, that tee shot, I ripped it.  Finishing with a birdie, it was brilliant.  It was fun.   
 Q.  I know this is hard for you coming back to Germany, given all that's happened here.  For you it was about changing memories and changing the pattern, does this help change to get things flipped around for you?  
MELISSA REID: Yeah, certainly getting the first point on the board was nice.  These guys, Brittany and Michelle, are fantastic players, and we knew they were very tough to beat.  Yeah, early memories of Germany is nice now.  It was great to do it with Charley, she's a great player and we enjoy playing together.   
 Q.  Biggest moments on that round?  
CHARLEY HULL: I'd say the putt on the last.  I think the shot where you hit it close, because we --   
MELISSA REID: The 7th, yeah.   
 Q.  How much fun was it going back and forth with them?  
MELISSA REID: We wanted to have a three- or four-shot lead.  They were really good competitors.  They made a great birdie on 12 out of the bunker.  We were just -- our game plan was to have a birdie putt on every hole.   
CHARLEY HULL: Both teams had so many putts out there that went in.   
MELISSA REID: Both teams could hole two or three more each.   
 Q.  Was it 13 you went all square?  Did you give a pep-talk to each other?  
MELISSA REID: Just needed to kick on a little bit.  I hit a bad chip there, I didn't think it was going to come out that soft.  And then they unfortunately three-putted.  That's not really how you want to win a hole, but it was a win.  And then I actually -- I fancied the putt on 15.  And then 16 was obviously a good hole.   
 Q.  When you guys saw your pairing were you like, let's go?  
CHARLEY HULL: As soon as we got here, we wanted to play with each other.   
MELISSA REID: I put up with her chatting, basically.  I kind of just ignore her.  I do that really well with her.  But I love to play with Charley, she's English.  It's always nice to keep patriotic and things out there.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT