RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2015
Melissa Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. In the end, a 72 today, but how good to be right in the thick of this major this time?
MELISSA REID: Yeah, it was awesome. We were just saying up the 18th, we've had great groups. We've played with Lydia, Inbee, Lexi the first couple of days. It's nice to see where my game's at. It's nice to know that things are going well and yeah, it was nice to contend in a major.

Q. And the friends and family to support you must have been special? 
MELISSA REID: Yeah, they are the ones making all the noise. It's awesome to have them here and be performing in front of them is great. Something to cheer about. 
I'm supposed to go to Solheim to practice tomorrow. Got that and I don't know what I'm doing, so I need to talk to these guys, my managers to see what I'm doing about Prague. I don't particularly want to play if I'm honest.

Q. But you've entered?
MELISSA REID: I've entered but I don't like the golf course. I hate it.

Q. But you might not play?
MELISSA REID: I don't know. I'm going to have a look, just because I hate the golf course.

Q. So you're going to look at the Solheim points and see? 
MELISSA REID: I'm going to look and see. Obviously if I need to play, I'll play but I would do anything not to play that golf course. You can write that if you want. 

Q. Tell me about this performance, your best finish in a major. How does it feel? 
MELISSA REID: It feels good. Thought I hit it really good today. Missed a couple chips and one bad 8‑iron but apart from that, I just didn't get any putts dropping in. Just burned a few edges. I think we burned six or seven edges today. Just needed two or three of them to go in and it would have been a good week. It was good to play with the likes of Lydia and Lexi and Inbee to see where my game is at. We know it's not too far away, and yeah, just keep doing what I'm doing and me and Kev and Mark will reassess this week and see what we need to work on and be ready for the end of the season. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT