RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2015
Melissa Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You finished eagle, birdie, after all of your troubles and travails of the first few holes?  
MELISSA REID: Wasn't the best start. The weather was really tough the first few holes, got of to, I think I was 4‑over after five or six without really playing badly. So I was a bit frustrated but I knew there was a couple back nine par 5s I could get on in two. My aim was to get back to level, so obviously to have the back nine I did was a bonus.  
   
 Q. We remember you the leading amateur in 2007 at St. Andrews, and you've been missing from this championship for the last three years or so. Can you describe what it means to be back and to be performing like this?   
MELISSA REID: Yeah, it's been a difficult journey. But you know, I've been playing quite well this year, and I definitely feel like I'm coming out of it, which is good.   
And it is nice performing in the British Open. It's my favourite event and apart from when I was an amateur, I haven't actually done too well here. I've got a lot of my friends and family here, so it's nice to give them a bit of cheering to do.  
   
 Q. And I want you to describe that putt on 17 for eagle. What was that like?  
MELISSA REID: Hit a great drive, maybe a little too far left but you wanted to miss that bunker. Just hit a perfect 3‑wood to about 15‑foot. I knew it was going to break left at the end, so as soon as it was about two foot out, I thought, maybe I've got this and it was right around the middle. It's always nice to eagle.  
   
 Q. How do you like your chances tomorrow?   
MELISSA REID: I'm not too far off. If I can just sort out the first few holes where I've been dropping shots, I've certainly got a chance. My putter, I feel as if I'm putting it really well and my swing feels good. Going to go out there tomorrow and give it my best shot anyway.   
   
 Q. In contention going into the final day, you must be excited.   
MELISSA REID: Yeah, it was good. I had a good back nine which helps. Didn't get off to the best of starts, but looking forward to tomorrow. It's nice to be playing well in a British Open and with all of my friends and family here.  
   
 Q. Loads of people watching you going around. Must be nice to have such big support.   
MELISSA REID: Yeah, I've got a big family which I'm quite grateful for at things like which when they all come to watch and I have about six of my friends. They have came up on Friday. They have never watched golf before.   
   
 Q. Front nine was a bit tough. The back nine, can you talk me through some of those key holes?   
MELISSA REID: Yeah, I think it was definitely beneficial playing in it yesterday, the wind and stuff. Yeah, made a great putt on 9 for birdie. Hit a nice shot in there. Hit a great putt on 10 for birdie. Great putt on 11 for birdie. Hit a really good tee shot in there. 12, should have made birdie there actually. 13, made a good save. 14 I knew I could get on in two. That was a 2‑putt birdie. 15 was a tough par 3. Hit a great tee shot there.   
16 was the tough hole today. It's probably playing as a par like‑‑ well, five is kind of par there. It's a bit unfortunate to make par there. Made a nice eagle on 17 and nice birdie on 18 to finish off.  
   
 Q. Your putting has been‑‑ you've really got a measure of the greens.   
MELISSA REID: We just change a little bit of putting this week which is purely going instinct. It's what I did in Turkey and it worked. Sometimes I get a little bit technical but just going on pure instinct and it seems to be working.  
   
 Q. Do you have a putting coach specifically?   
MELISSA REID: No, just Kev. Technically I feel quite good. If I get too technical, that's when I kind of get a bit tense and I struggle.   
   
 Q. And when things are going well‑‑  
MELISSA REID: When I play with my mates and stuff, I putt really well. I'm just trying to keep it kind of free and loose.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT