RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2015
Melissa Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you talk a little about your round, any key moments, birdies, bogeys?   
MELISSA REID: Yeah, it was just pretty brutal to be honest, the back nine especially. We had a long wait on 11. Managed to make a great up‑and‑down there. Made a great up‑and‑down on 12; that was almost unreachable today. Great up‑and‑down on 13. And I knew the 14th and 17th were quite birdieable, so as long as I kept my head and were making pars‑‑ so that was kind of our game. So, yeah, played well.  
   
 Q. Conditions this afternoon were pretty wretched. Do you think you got the worst?   
MELISSA REID: Definitely, yeah. This afternoon‑‑ this morning, they just had wind; whereas we had wind and rain and it was slow. Like I said, there was, what, three groups on 11. There was three groups on 11, so we were kind of cruising and then 11, we had like a 25‑minute delay.   
So it's kind of tough, especially when it's cold, to keep your body moving‑‑ savage. Laura's group were rating, so there was a group on the green. They had just teed off a moment before when we got there.   
   
 Q. Do you think that you've played so much in these sort of conditions compared to so many people who have come from overseas that you're a lot less shocked?   
MELISSA REID: I think playing last week at did you know Donald was awesome for us, because I would say it's twice as hard, if not three times harder than here. So we were trying shots out last week that we knew we needed this week, so that really came in handy today.   
The course is definitely tougher, and I think with the wind on the last day, it was extremely tough. It helped playing in that today because we kind of gauged distances and we wanted to play certain shots that we played last week that we tested out, so that was good.  
   
 Q. And you grew up playing it; so you played your winter practise‑‑  
MELISSA REID: Yeah, like the poor Japanese girls has never experienced this in their life; whereas I'm used to this four months of the year. It helps; I'm like what's going on, nothing's wrong.   
   
 Q. And carrying your confidence from your win earlier in the summer?   
MELISSA REID: Yeah, just going to rest up now and hopefully have a good weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT