OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 12, 2014
Melissa Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was the lowest round of the day so far, 7‑under, second place, sensational day of golf from you?  
MELISSA REID:   Yeah, it's been a long time coming.   I worked actually a week with my coach, Kevin Craggs, a week before this week at Saadiyat, and I think we just found kind of the missing ingredient.   So it was nice to put it into play.   I played really well yesterday.   I think I missed three greens yesterday and then today I think I missed one.   So I'm hitting it well.   I'm just trying to keep it simple and get the noise out of my head.   It's working.  
   
 Q.   Just chatting to your caddie, he said you said to him, that's the best you've ever played.   Is that fair?  
MELISSA REID:   Yeah, I think it is.   All in all, that's probably the best I've played.   I was just striking it really well.   I was hitting my drives really long and I was confident in my driver.   It feels good.   Like I said, I'm just trying to get rid of the noise, make it simple again.   I'm just trying to play like I do in practice.   I always play well in practice, so just trying to go with that approach and seems to be working quite well at the minute.  
   
 Q.   You did well in Slovakia, didn't quite build on that; funny old season, but have a chance to possibly win.   
MELISSA REID:   It's been a really tough couple years.   It's been a lot harder than I expected and I probably didn't give myself enough credit for what's happened and stuff.   Things change, and I actually feel that my personal life is stable, which is quite nice, not being a rebel anymore.   
The last two or three months, everything has quieted down and everything's good and I'm happy, and I think it's now showing through in my golf.   Like I said, I had a really good chat with Kev last week and I think we found something.   I'm definitely going to build on that and this is just a progression, really, for next season.   
   
 Q.   Five off the lead, but Shanshan has been in sensational form but you're in career‑best form.   Are you confident of maybe catching her?   
MELISSA REID:   She's playing great.   You can't take that away from her.   She's going to be very difficult to catch tomorrow.   If I keep playing the way I am, then I'm going to try to putt as much pressure on her as possible without giving away too much.   
It's nice to be within distance of her.   Hopefully I'll be playing with her tomorrow and I can see what she's doing.   But yeah, she's playing great.   So all respect to her and all I can just try and do is just keep her on her toes a little bit.  
   
 Q.   You talk about noise and your personal life.   How much of golf is actually mental‑‑  
MELISSA REID:   Huge.   Huge.   I think the thing is when you're struggle, you go looking for things, and that's definitely what I did.   I got way too deep into stuff and I kind of stripped it back and kind of just did things that made me happy.   
I started playing football again, which a lot of people would probably disagree with, but it works for me.   When I practice now, I was doing 40 hours a week whereas I've never really done that.   I've always been quite a natural player.   So I've kind of stripped back on that and made a lot more task‑orientated kind of structure.   
It's just kind of finding what works for you.   I've worked really hard in the gym recently which is important with me, with my trainer, Jon Woods, at St. George's Park, which is an amazing facility there.   It's just finding what works for you.   I'm realising that I'm different from I would say the majority of golfers.   So it's now just having the confidence to do what I want to do and not what everybody else is telling me to do.  
   
 Q.   In what sort of sense are you different?  
MELISSA REID:   I just would say that‑‑ because I've grown up in team sports.   I miss having a team around me.   I would say that I'm not hugely selfish person, so I think in this game, you have to like your own company, be a little bit selfish.   Whereas I'm not‑‑ I don't like my own company and I'm not very selfish.   
But the thing is, that's why I wanted to get such a close team around me.   They are my team and they are the ones that I trust, and now I feel like I've got a really, really strong team.   So it's been in place for a while, but we've just had so many changes just to kind of get all the pieces together.   This really was just a test just for next year, and so I'm not really expecting too much, but I'm just enjoying playing well again.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned about Saadiyat.   Is that something you always do?   
MELISSA REID:   They have all been really nice, accommodating to me.   Obviously my sponsors are here, so I like to come out here in January usually just a week before I go to Australia, and Saadiyat have always been amazing with me.   I thought I would bring Kev out for this trip and it's been amazing, we had five really, really good days.   
It's just nice having a facility like that available.   So I'll be going back there in the end of January before I go to Australia.   
   
 Q.   With all that you've been through, is it nice to be back amongst in second place?   
MELISSA REID:   Yeah, I think that there was a time where I didn't know if I wanted to play golf anymore, which actually was not that long ago.   So to go from there to this, it's nice; and my dad's here, it's nice for him to see me playing well again.   It's nice for my dad obviously to be here, as well.   It's just nice to kind of feel like I've figured something out.   But that's main thing, really, was just figuring it out and I feel like I've done that now and so I can progress into next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT