RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2017
Melissa Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Reflect on that.
MELISSA REID: I didn't play well at all, it was pretty pathetic on the greens today.  I missed three or four within four feet which puts me at 5-under, compared to leading the tournament.  A little bit frustrated but I kind of feel, I holed a couple of crucial putts coming in so I find of feel that now I've got that round out of the way and I can push on through the weekend.
Q. First of all, this approach in, I mean, tee-to-green, the way you're hitting your irons, some of the best of your career, would you say?
MELISSA REID: I'm hitting it good.  I feel very comfortable with my golf swing and I'm hitting my driver really well.
This shot, actually, I hit, it was in a divot and it was like two inches below the ground.  It was like one of the worst lies I've had in a while.  Just hit an 8-iron in and unfortunately didn't make the putt.  The greens were super slow after the rain and that pin, actually, is on like a slope -- I don't know why they put the pin there.  Again I should have holed that.
Q. The greens are running slower -- there's obviously been a lot of rain.
MELISSA REID: This is the thing.  I think with my putting it's all about clarity.  I think when I just step up, I see the line and I hit it, that's when I putt my best.  I've missed a couple short earlier on in the round.  So I probably just thought a bit too much about it; is it the right line.  My process could have been a little sharper today but holed a couple of good putts coming in, so that's always a positive.
Q. Show you that and give you a positive vibe heading into the weekend.
MELISSA REID: Yeah, I was just thankful it finally went in the hole and it caught the left edge.  I was like, there's a hole there somewhere.  Wasn't able to find it during the day.  I looked at my caddie and was very, very grateful.
Q. As you say, you're four back right now.  Main thought processes heading into the weekend?
MELISSA REID: Yeah, I'm looking forward to it, being four back in a major going into a major and going into the weekend, I think it's anybody's; 65 players plus are going to be within eight shots of the lead, so it's going to be a very exciting weekend.
I'm looking forward to it.  Like I said, I feel I'm swinging it really, really well.  I've done some good work and I just need that putter to get a little bit hot.
Q. You have a new sports psychologist with you?  How big an impact do you think he's had instantly, and going forward, how significant could that be?
MELISSA REID: It's huge.  I mean, you know, I kind of feel that's probably the only area that I don't really work too much on.  There have been times in my career where when my back's against the wall, I feel that's where my strength comes out of me but I need to do that week-in, week-out, every round I play.
I just feel like Paul McCarthy, he's come in in the last ten days through a recommendation from Kev, he's given me a couple of things really to work on.  He made a difference, he certainly made a difference in Friday in The Scottish Open, and he's obviously made a difference this week.  Just goes to show, I knew that I was close and I knew that it wasn't necessarily my technique; it was something in my head.  I'm actually excited and feel like that's the missing piece of the puzzle.
Q. Having that entourage around, that team, every element that you need, coach, psychologist, how much is that just peace of mind to go out and be totally free?
MELISSA REID: It's massive.  You know, it's very important who you surround yourself with and I've learnt over the years, I've made mistakes and I've made decisions with things and I'm older now and wiser --
Q. You're 29?
MELISSA REID: 29, I'm old on the LPGA.  I've worked extremely hard to develop a very tight-knit team.  Once you're in my bubble, you're in it and once you're out of it, you're out of it, basically.  Trust is a huge thing.  Kevin has had a massive input; obviously Benji on the bag now; Helen, my trainer; and now we're bringing Paul in.
So I like to have a team environment around me.  I feel that I work best with that, and yeah, I'm very, very happy with the way the team is shaping up, and I feel, like I said, once you're in, you're in.
Q. We saw some flair, panache from you, and today, a different side of golf.  You had to grind away.  Would you agree with that?
MELISSA REID: Yeah, I hit it good.  I hit it as good as yesterday.  I felt like I hit a lot of good shots and didn't reap the rewards of it, really.  My putter was a bit cold today.  I holed a good par putt on 13 and one on 18, so good positive thoughts going into the weekend.
Q. You've added to the team this week with a new sports psychologist, Paul McCarthy.
MELISSA REID: Yeah, Kev was desperate for me to meet him a few months ago, but I was kind of against a little bit.  I think that we had a really long chat a couple weeks ago and we find of felt that was the missing piece of the puzzle.  Brought Paul in last week and met him for the first time Wednesday last week and he came on Friday, as well.  Made a difference on Friday.
So he also came here this week on Tuesday and I think he's coming tomorrow.  You know, we've literally not even touched the surface.  We're literally just talking to each other right now and I already feel he's made a big impact.  I'm very excited.
I always knew it wasn't my technical side, but it's hard to not put in more hours in on the range and the putting green, and put hours in your head, really.  I kind of feel I've neglected that in the past.  So that's my main focus now is to work on my head.
Q. Is it more focus, concentration?  What's he zoned in on?
MELISSA REID: I don't know, really.  Like I kind of feel that I've been given a lot of information.  I've worked with incredible people over my career, and you know, sometimes you get given too much information and you go looking for things when things aren't great.  I just want to start again.  That's kind of my mind-set and we're literally starting from basics.
He's just given me a couple of pointers here and there.  He's just a funny bloke, as well.  We just get on.  Kevin knew that I was probably going to get on with him.  He's just said a few things here and there, and he's a very, very positive guy, brings positive energy to the team and I just think he's going to be a great addition.
Q. As it stands, you're four back.  I can't see the lead moving too far.  That's a pretty good position going into the weekend.
MELISSA REID: Yeah, it is.  Again, going back to some of the things today, I felt like I could have taken the lead, but yeah, going in four back, if you had said that to me Wednesday morning or Thursday morning, I would have taken it.
It's the perfect position.  I like to chase.  I'm literally just going to go out this weekend and play really aggressive and try and get this putter hot and see what we can do.  Post a score and play well tomorrow hopefully and shoot a low one tomorrow and low one on Sunday and see what we can do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT