U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
Melissa Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round.   That was one of the better rounds of the day. 
MELISSA REID:   Yeah, I played very good.   Didn't really do much wrong.   I felt like my swing was a little bit better than yesterday.   I got a little bit tense yesterday.   So just let it happen, played very steady.   I think I missed three greens all day.

Q.   How hard was it to recover just from the heat from the afternoon and turn around and get it going this morning?
MELISSA REID:   It was okay.   I think that's why we go to the gym, for that very reason we do get in positions like this sometimes and you get the other extreme when it's raining and you obviously get very tired.   So that's why we do the gym work.   That's why we try and keep ourselves fit.
Yeah, it was actually quite nice, I think, playing late than early, so you get everything done and kind of keep the momentum going.

Q.   How much would it mean to you you'll be right above the cut.   How much does it mean for you to make the field for the weekend?
MELISSA REID:   Obviously you want to play on the weekend.   After my round yesterday, obviously it would mean a lot.   I kind of took myself completely out of the tournament yesterday, but a good round today has definitely given me a chance to ‑‑ you know, you never know, I could be 169.   And have a good finish.   We just gotta see what the scores are like this afternoon, and hopefully I'll make the cut.

Q.   My condolences for your loss.   I saw somewhere where you said it was almost cathartic to get back out there, especially after Prague when you won and now here. 
MELISSA REID:   Yeah.   I mean it was quite tough.   I had four weeks off of tournament play.   Obviously Prague was quite nice.   It was definitely my best win I've had so far, and you know, we had the funeral last week, so my preparations for this week have not been as good as I would have liked, but obviously family is priority.   Golf is very far down the pecking order in that sense. 
Yeah, it's nice to start playing well again, and yeah, it's not as easy as I thought.

Q.   I know it's hard for any athlete to have to mourn because you're such a public figure.   But you apparently received a lot of support from your ‑‑
MELISSA REID:   Oh, it's been superb.   From not just the LET, but from the LPGA.   You know, past players, and the golfing world is like a big family because you are traveling with pretty much the same people week in and week out.   So to have the support, yeah, just basically support I've had from everyone is really touching and it really did touch the family, and it really does mean a lot, and it's definitely helped the whole family to get through such a horrific time really.

Q.   Is it at all surprising, I know you said it's a family, but to have that much support from everyone pouring in and offering to take the time?
MELISSA REID:   Oh, of course it is.   It's completely overwhelming.   I mean I never expected it.   I mean I never thought anything like this would happen to me.   But I mean, you know, like I said, the support is completely overwhelming and it really has helped.   You know, everyone has been coming and giving me hugs.   It just means that people care.   You know, to be fair, my mom had a big impact on a lot of people because she was kind of an on tour mom.   My mom and dad used to come out to quite a lot of events, so they feel like it's a personal loss as well.

Q.   Is she a golf mom?
MELISSA REID:   I wouldn't say a golf mom.   Actually, I'm very lucky.   I have very supportive parents that never pushed me.   They kept me in the lines, but they never ‑‑ you know, they guided me, I would say.   They always let me do whatever I wanted and allowed me to make mistakes.   They're certainly not one of these pushy parents.   They're very laid back and I'm very grateful for what they've done.

Q.   Did they get you into golf or how did you get into golf?
MELISSA REID:   Yeah, they got me into golf.   I used to play football or soccer as you guys call it.   Football.   I used to play football, and couldn't play with the boys anymore and didn't particularly enjoy it with the girls.   I mean I did all sports as a kid, but I took up golf at about 11 years old, from 11 years old, and my mom and dad played, but not to a high level.   Yeah, I guess I just picked it up from that and just went from there really.

Q.   All the mental stuff you go through on the course and sometimes you're alone in your thoughts, does that sometimes make it more difficult or easier?
MELISSA REID:   To be fair, I've always let my mind wander sometimes, which has not always been good.   But actually now my mind's obviously ‑‑ I'm thinking about my mom quite a lot, and it's actually making me fight a little bit more than probably what I would normally.   And I've always been a bit of a fighter, but I have a little bit more determination now since obviously I want to do it for her, and I want her to be proud of me every single day. 
So it's kind of, you know, not taking things for granted, and yeah, like I said, I'm just trying to be a fighter.

Q.   What was it like to have her on tour with you all that time?
MELISSA REID:   It was great, because you know, they had some great times as well.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT