BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2017
Brenda Frese
Kaila Charles
Shatori Walker-Kimbrough
Brionna Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Maryland - 92, Minnesota - 80   
MODERATOR: We've been joined by Maryland.  We'll start with an opening statement from Coach Frese.  Then go to the students for questions.   
COACH FRESE: I thought we started a little slow, which sometimes it's typical when you start a tournament and then Minnesota came out, having played in the game before really aggressive, especially on the glass.  But I thought once we were able to kind of settle in we were able to make a lot of plays.  I thought our bench contribution with Ieshia and Brianna Fraser off the bench gave us some great minutes.  Shatori in the third quarter really gave us great scoring punch.   
And again when you look at, from Kaila and Bri, they continued to do great things on the defensive end.  Kaila was very active for her first tournament game here.  So I was proud that we were able to use our depth in terms of this game.   
 Q.  Shatori, third quarter you had 16 points.  Can you talk about that?  You seemed comfortable shooting the ball in that quarter.  
SHATORI WALKER-KIMBROUGH: My teammates kept finding me, kept giving me great confidence.  I air-balled in the first half.  Kristen looked at me, told me to keep shooting.  Come in at halftime, Ieshia said let the thing fly.  So I let the thing fly in the second half.   
 Q.  Kaila, what was it like playing in your first tournament game, playing in an NBA arena? (Indiscernible)  
KAILA CHARLES: It was exciting.  It was a good team win.  I like how we pushed through fatigue, and we had a slow start so we were able to pick everything up.  In terms of just how it felt, I love challenges.  So I like that we have this tournament where everybody's playing their hardest to win.  So it's a fun experience.   
 Q.  Brionna, another quiet double-double.  I say quiet because Shatori, six 3-pointers.  She mentioned a slow start, Minnesota had the day before to play, did it feel good to get this one out of the way?  
BRIONNA JONES: Yeah, it feels good to have one under our belt, just to get our flow back and just getting prepared for the next game.   
 Q.  Just a follow-up for any of you.  You plan on watching the game here that's about to take place, or are you just going to go back and focus on the game you just played, get ready for tomorrow?  
SHATORI WALKER-KIMBROUGH: A little bit of both.  Probably watch the minutes and probably go -- not watch the full game but we'll try to be the most prepared team going into tomorrow.  If we don't we'll definitely be prepared for tomorrow for film.   
 Q.  Shatori, you guys mentioned how you're expecting to get everybody's best punch here in the tournament.  Everybody is 0-0.  Is that what you kind of attribute the slow start to, just Minnesota coming out intense, or what do you think happened there?  
SHATORI WALKER-KIMBROUGH: Yeah, I think Minnesota came out and threw the first punch.  I give credit to them.  They came out pushing tempo, pushing in transition and had us on our heels a little bit.  But I thought we responded really well.  I thought we came out in the second quarter, third quarter defensively and offensively putting the pressure back on them.   
 Q.  Are there different things you want to clean up before going into tomorrow night's game, especially after Minnesota shoot 53 percent or something like that?  
COACH FRESE: Yeah, we definitely talked about that in the locker room after the game.  I think we can give a better effort defensively and rebounding the basketball.  So I know how much these guys pride themselves on both areas.  So I know that we'll bounce back in terms of playing better on both ends.   
 Q.  On the flip side, fourth time in five games you've shot as a team better than 52 percent.  What's kind of been working offensively for the team?  
COACH FRESE: I think just the way we share the basketball.  When you look at our assist-to-turnover ratio.  We're just really starting to understand they want to collapse on Bri, and being able to play through her, and it gives us easy looks.  But I thought our ball movement again was really, really good as a team.   
 Q.  Again, you blew them out last time, just less than a week ago, 33 points or something.  What do you kind of attribute the difference to?  What do you take away from this?  
COACH FRESE: You know, I think they shot the ball extremely well.  Hubbard was someone we talked about that hadn't played in the contest against us.  You saw the line she had tonight with 28 points.  So there's a big difference right there with a player that didn't play last time.   
We did want to utilize our depth having a big picture.  So I think when you look at the fourth quarter and we got beat in that quarter, I thought defensively we gave up a lot of points in the fourth quarter.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT