MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ANGELS
October 26, 2002
Mike Scioscia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Assuming there's a Game 7, have you thought of starting pitch tomorrow?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  We've given it a ton of thought (laughter).  I got smoke coming to my ears, Buddy Block, he's hoarse from talking to me.  We've given it a ton of thought.  We've worked this thing every which way you can work it, even the scenario Buddy Block coming in to pitch a game (laughter).  We've given it a lot of thought.  I think it's just too early to really  -- we're going to have to see how we get through Game 6.  We'll decide on Game 7.  We're not going to miss any spots in this game worrying about Game 7, obviously.  It will be  -- a lot of it will be contingent on what we do in Game 6. 

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  Eckstein shortstop, Erstad centerfield, Salmon rightfield, Anderson left field, Glaus third base, Fullmer DH, Spiezio first base, Molina catching, Kennedy second base. 

Q.  As a former catcher and the opposing manager, do you have any thoughts you'd want to share on the issue of Dusty's son being on the field? 

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  I know Dusty, the environment he wants to set.  It's very family-oriented.  I didn't see the incident.  I didn't even see any replays of it.  It's tough for me to comment on.  I just know that Dusty, they have a lot of kids around there, they seem to respond to that atmosphere. 

Q.  You want your players to play the same way they played all year long.  How will you manage differently in a game like this? 

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  Well, obviously as we talked about, moving forward in a pennant race to playoffs, the level of play we bring and the style of play we bring is going to be the same, the same as it was in spring training, the same thing during the season, same way through a pennant race, and playoffs.  Now, obviously we're the first must-win of the whole season for us.  We're going to bring that same style of play.  As far as strategy, what we're doing, there's going to be obviously things you're going to consider at this stage that you wouldn't have considered any other time - not only during the season, but during the playoffs.  You know, one indication is today we'll have Ramon Ortiz in our bullpen, if necessary.  We're going to obviously look at things and see if things  -- give us as many options as we can, particularly on the mound, to get the outs we're going to need. 

Q.  Before the series you said that with Barry, there are times and situations to pitch to him, times to work around him.  Looking back at the first five games, how would you rate the way you handled him?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  I think our intentional walks, we've done well with those (smiling).  We've executed those well.  I think at times we've gone after Barry.  You know, we're probably around I'm sure what the average is of what teams have done to Barry during the season.  We made some good pitches.  We've gotten Barry out.  We haven't quite gotten pitches in some locations we're looking for and he's hit the ball.  I think going back to putting the focus on Barry, I think it's being borne out, this series is much more about, "Hey, let's contain Barry and you're going to win the series."  It's much more than that.  I think the Giants have shown that.  We obviously have to contain Barry, but get some key outs to some very good hitters.  At times we've done it well, and at times we haven't done it as well.  As far as pitching to Barry, you know, just narrowing down the times we've gone after him, we've been able to make good pitches, we have gotten him out.  It hasn't been very often, obviously.  You make a little mistake.  The margin of error of pitching to Barry is not very comfortable because he's very locked in.  I'm sure he's been that way the whole season, if you look at his numbers. 

Q.  Truth be told, especially in a game like this, because there's so many different variables involved, including luck or misfortune, however you want to put it, you still have to sort of manage this game an inning at a time, don't you?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  Absolutely.  You're looking more short-term.  It takes I think more planning as far as coming up with scenarios that come up with options to make you're ready for any twist that might come in during the game.  You know, if you're talking about fortune, if you play a level of baseball that's high enough and you play it on a consistent basis and have guys doing their jobs on the club, you should be a good enough team to overcome maybe a little roll of the baseball, an umpire's call, one mistake by your pitcher.  We certainly have been like that all year.  Obviously, we're playing against a very, very high-caliber club that's going to take any advantage of any advantages, as our club will.  But I think we're not looking at  -- I don't know if that was the theme of your question so much.  We're not looking for luck or roll of the baseball to influence the game. 

Q.  Depending on how the game goes today, is there a temptation maybe to use Frankie Rodriguez in the middle innings?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  Especially with Frankie and Troy Percival being sharp, in a game like this, we're going to definitely consider options of bringing him into the game a little earlier, which would affect where Troy Percival would come in, or maybe not.  Maybe bring Frankie, if he comes in the time he's slotted, we have Troy, if he would need him in the eighth inning.  We're going to consider that, absolutely.

Q.  Do you ever talk to your team as a group, the pep talk kind of thing?  If so, is this a night to do it?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  I don't think our team has really needed it.  We talked to the guys every day, whether it's around the batting cage or in the outfield or whether we're having a meeting before a series going over a club.  I think one good thing about our staff is their ability to communicate.  They've done a terrific job of it.  So I haven't found the need here to get them together as a group to reinforce anything that isn't already very, a very strong part of our club. 

Q.  Just looking for one slice of the pie in the talks that you've had with Bud Black about the Game 7 starter, does it make a difference, the idea of starting a rookie in a game like that?  What are your thoughts about doing that? 

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  I think if you look at a pitcher's production, I think there's a sum total of things that go into it.  Sometimes it's experience, sometimes it's incredible talent, sometimes it's your makeup.  But the bottom line is, how are you throwing the ball?  Are you getting outs?  For us to say that a guy is a rookie pitcher and not have confidence in him I think is missing the whole point.  I think if you look at the bottom line, I'm sure he questions leaning to a guy like if John Lackey is going to be considered for Game 7, there's absolutely nobody that we would have more confidence in to give the ball to.  He is a rookie, because I think he's executing pitches, he's getting guys out, he's got the makeup.  What he lacks in experience, he makes up for with talent and the ability to execute pitches.  That's what this game is about.  You know, I think you can't just take out one facet and say a guy is a rookie, are you going to pitch him?  You have to look at the bottom line.  As I said, pitchers reach that bottom line from a whole  -- from a bunch of different avenues, whether it's experience, talent, makeup, resiliency.  There's all kinds of factors that goes into what makes up a pitcher. 

Q.  Something from your playing days.  The way you used to block the plate, which was formidable, how did you decide you were going to do it that way?  What was your most memorable collision? 

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  We don't want to go back to my playing days.  Nobody wants to hear about that.  You know, for hopefully the last time I'll ever have to talk about my playing days because they weren't very exciting for people to watch.  But I grew up in the Philadelphia area.  Every catcher I knew from growing up from when I was seven, eight years old, it was a badge of honor to block the plate.  I remember kids my age as aggressively or more aggressively playing the plate, it just kind of was part of you if you were going to be a catcher.  You were going to hang in there on plays to plate.  It was a badge of honor.  You were going to give your best effort to make that out.  Obviously, as you keep playing, you kind of acquire a technique, how to make those plays.  Again, I think there were guys in the Major Leagues from the time I was playing that were just as aggressive as blocking the plate as I was.  I don't know where the notoriety came my way.  Talk about some of the  -- the one collision that absolutely I got hit harder than anybody else was Chili Davis in 1986 when he was with the Giants.  Chili plays hard, he's 6'3", looks like Apollo Creed, got a nice lean.  I saw stars.  That was the hardest I've been hit, including my years of playing football.  It was a heck of a collision. 

Q.  Did he score? 

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  No, he was out that time.  We were both out (laughter). 


End of FastScripts...`            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT