AL DIVISION SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 4, 2002
Mike Scioscia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Could you change your mind on your starting pitching depending on the outcome of today's game? 

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  We've bounced around probably every scenario you could think of about if  -- if the outcome of tonight's game, how we're going to line up.  Right now, we are still leaning toward Jarrod Washburn pitching tomorrow, depending how our staff comes out of it.  I don't know what could happen that could affect that.  Then the bigger question would be, obviously, if necessary, on Sunday.  We'll, you know, we'll take it one step at a time.  As of right now, we are leaning toward Jarrod, and we'll let you guys know after the game.  There's a lot of things we bounced around.  We'll let you know. 

Q.  What's your general feeling on guys going on three days' rest?  Does it depend on the guy?  How significant a difference is it?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  For some guys, it's big.  For some guys it's, you know, they won't skip a beat, they'll be fine doing it.  I think Jarrod showed this year he doesn't have a problem with it, as strong as he's felt.  We do have that option open to us.  He pitched a terrific game in Oakland on three days' rest, I think it was the best game he's pitched all season.  He's shown the ability to, you know, to do that.  So that's a big option for us. 

Q.  Is the relatively low pitch count in his last start, is that a factor, too?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  I think he came out of that start feeling very strong.  I think part of it was the low pitch count.  Even if his pitch count was higher, he still came out feeling as strong, I think we'd still have that option.  We certainly didn't short him in his first start thinking about bringing him back on three days', but I think he did come out of it feeling strong, so we do have that option tomorrow. 

Q.  If he doesn't start, who would start? 

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  We have an option of John Lackey, who would be, you know, a guy we have a lot of confidence giving the ball to. 

Q.  Both first two games were both long games, tension-filled games.  Do you feel like your team needed  -- coming into here, enough rest? 

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  I think our team's going to do whatever challenge is presented towards them.  If they didn't have rest, they would have come out here yesterday and played  -- I'm sure played a strong game.  Although it might have been a little soggy, getting in at seven in the morning.  I think they  -- they're gonna do what has to be done.  It was great to have a breather, sure.  It's great to get a breather, to catch your breath and hopefully come back refreshed today.  I think our club is.  But they're going to do what they have to do.  The playoffs are an incredible grind, and hopefully we're going to feel that grind because that means we're advancing.  They're going to do what they have to do.

Q.  What does your team have to do to beat David Wells?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  Let's talk about Mussina first, huh.  We're going to talk about David Wells already?  I think if you look at any one of the starters the Yankees have, they all present unique challenges.  None of them are quite the same.  The common denominator is their mental toughness.  But each of them presents a different, you know, package as far as their stuff, what they try to do to get hitters out.  I think you see it evidenced the first couple nights.  With Mussina tonight, he's going to  -- you know he's going to make his pitches.  When we get a ball to hit, put it in play, we have to take advantage of that.  He's got excellent stuff.  I think the same goes for David Wells tomorrow.  This guy I think steps up his game as the game means more.  The challenge is going to be there.  We've had some success against lefties this year, but playoffs are a different animal.  Wells is going to bring his good stuff.  He's got that excellent curveball, changes speeds well, spots his fastball and can throw the ball hard when he needs to.  So he's got great stuff.  No questioning that.  And it will be a challenge. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT