AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 24, 2009
Mike Scioscia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Who has the first question for Mike Scioscia?   
  
  Q. Mike, I know you talked a little earlier about this, with it being called so early, is the most important thing the integrity of the game, you don't have to worry about messing up the pitching? At least you know right off the bat.   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: We haven't heard why from Major League Baseball. Obviously the weather is a determining factor. I don't know how it's going to play throughout the night. But I know they always put a lot of weight on that as far as the integrity of the starter. If you're going to lose a starter, either he warms up or throws a half inning or throws two innings. That really affects the outcome of a ballgame. And if you can stay away from it, I know it's a concern of ours and a concern of Major League Baseball's. I'm sure it is of the Yankees, too.   
 So we'll have everything intact ready to go tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Mike, do you feel this benefits you guys because now you have John Lackey in play for a potential Game 7?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: Well, I think it benefits both teams certainly for resetting a bullpens and some things. It's going to give us more options to look at, absolutely. We'll hopefully -- we still have our whole staff out there for tomorrow. John Lackey is not -- he's still in play tomorrow. We'll get through Game 6. There's no sense talking about a Game 7.   
 We'll have some more options and we'll obviously know better after tomorrow's game.   
  
  Q. Mike, with the idea of playing a potential elimination game in bad weather, would you rather just sit it out and wait until tomorrow than chance something like that?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: It depends on the playability of the field, the conditions. If it's good enough to play a game, I think any ball team wants to -- if you're going to start a game, just have a fair amount of confidence you're going to be able to finish it, and not have it be so disjointed and segmented because of weather.   
 So if the conditions were a little bit wet and it was still clear and we were able to play, and the ground was a little wet, yeah, you have to deal with that at any point. You'll trudge through it even though it's an elimination game. I'm sure the conditions are going to be -- the ground is going to be wet tomorrow to some degree. Maybe not obviously what it is tonight. But it's still going to be a little bit damp.   
  
  Q. Mike, were you in favor of the added off-day built in this week?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: No.   
  
  Q. Can you explain why?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: I think we played eight games -- was it eight games in 20 days now? Taking us almost 20 days to play eight games. I think that's the wrong template for baseball.   
  
  Q. Mike, do you think it affects momentum either way for either team losing this day?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: No, I don't think it has that much to do with it. Guys are ready. I can only tell you guys in our clubhouse are ready to play. I'm sure it's the same way in the other clubhouse. And again, as we talked about a little bit before, momentum is nice after you win a good game. But you've got to come back and rebuild it pitch by pitch. That's what we're going to have to do tomorrow.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.    
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT