AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 20, 2009
Mike Scioscia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







YANKEES  – 10
  ANGELS  – 1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mike Scioscia.

 Q. Were Kazmir and Napoli having trouble getting on the same page early in the game? 
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: I think there were some things they were working through. I don't know if it was anything that was really significant or affected what was going on out there with Kaz. His command wasn't really what it needed to be. 
 You know, I think that eventually is what caught up with him. He threw a lot of pitches to get to where he was in the game. He was a pitch behind a lot.

 Q. What is your take on what happened there at third base with McClelland ask all sorts of people being tagged out? 
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: Well, the way Timmy explained what he saw, he was correct on the call. He felt that Cano's foot was on the bag, and Posada ran past the bag, which means that, you know, Cano still has the right to be on the bag. We didn't feel Cano was on the bag, so we thought it was a double-play. 
 But the way Timmy described what he saw, you know, he made the call as he saw it.

 Q. From your experience, what could you compare what Alex has done in this postseason to other things that you've seen?
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: What Alex has done? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: Well, it's obvious he's brought his game on to the field what he does during the season. He's brought into both series, and he's been, you know, as clutch as anybody could have hoped for on their side. 
 So, you know, he's a heck of a player. He's playing his game right now. We're obviously going to have to do a little better job of making some pitches on him.

 Q. Given what CC did struggling against you guys during the regular season, what can you say about what he was able to do tonight on short rest? 
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: Well, I think from when we saw him earlier in the year until now, he's obviously figured some things out in a big way. That changeup he was throwing for the last couple of times we saw him wasn't nearly as consistent as it is now. I thought that was probably the biggest thing we had trouble adjusting to tonight. He threw it on off-counts and had great command of it. He was the story in the two games, Game 1 and this game. CC is the story. He pitched a terrific game for them.

 Q. What does it take to come back from a 3-1 deficit? 
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: You've got to win one at a time. I mean, we were -- I think right now as probably more important than any time we've talked about it, you focus on the process. You need to go on out there and have good at-bats. You need to pitch well. 
 This is the first game that really got away from us on the pitching side. I think we've been doing a good job on the mound. You have to really focus on the process. It's going to take a grind. You know, we're still in this. And the only way that you're going to reach that goal is after tomorrow we come back and play. From pitch one, you have to be ready to grind it out all the way through, and I hope to get it back to New York and take it from there.

 Q. I'll ask you the same question. How do you rally the troops now? I know what you have to do, but how do you convince them to do it? 
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: You keep the same -- we haven't changed really anything about our approach moving in. We got beat pretty badly tonight. It was one loss. That's it. You come out there and gain some momentum. I don't think we've had a lead early in the ballgame yet this series. If we can start to play that type of game, this can change in a hurry. 
 Our guys are confident. There is nobody in that clubhouse that's down. We know what's in front of us. We know where we have to get to, and there's a terrific challenge for us. And our guys are, you know, they're going to be ready to go mentally for sure. 
 I don't think there is anything about a short series when you're definitely out of it until you lose four games. Our guys know that. We'll have a good workout tomorrow. We'll come out here and hopefully play better and get some early runs. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Mike. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT