AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 17, 2009
Mike Scioscia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ANGELS  – 3
  YANKEES  – 4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Three or four questions per guest.   
  
  Q. Mike, again, a defensive problem right at the very end of the game there. Your take on that play?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: Well, I think he was trying to make a little too much of that play. You're not going to turn two. If we get an out on any base we're in good shape. It's a way out of the inning. I think he just reacted thinking that he had his mind going to second base. But obviously, in that situation, the force isn't really an advantage. If it's another time of the game it might be. But you just want to get an out there. Izzy just tried to do too much.   
  
  Q. Mike, can you fill us in on your mind-set here going back to Anaheim down 0-2?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: Well, we did a lot of good things out there on that ballfield tonight. Unfortunately, one of them wasn't hitting with runners in scoring position. And that's eventually what hurt us. We had a lot of opportunities out there. We couldn't get that key hit that might have put the game in a little different light moving forward. We have to get better at that, that's for sure. But we're going back home. The momentum in this series can swing in a heartbeat. We're going to go out there and come out and play a good ballgame and grind it out pitch by pitch and start all over.   
 But I'm encouraged by what I saw on the field. We saw a lot of good things there. I thought we pitched really well. For the most part we made plays notwithstanding the last play of the game. But we did a lot of good things out there. And hopefully we'll carry them over into Game 3.   
  
  Q. Mike, the 0-2 pitch by Fuentes to A-Rod, especially considering the next three hitters are lefty-lefty situations for him, how big a mistake is it to get anything near the plate in that spot?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: Well, Alex is a dangerous hitter. If you're going to miss a spot, you know, and you don't quite get it into it he's the type of hitter he's going to let you know, and he did. Brian was trying to elevate a fastball. Didn't quite get it up enough and that was ended up being a tie ballgame.   
  
  Q. On the momentum as you move out on the West Coast, are you a little concerned about some of your sluggers such as Torii Hunter, Bobby Abreu, Vladimir Guerrero? In this series, your percentage their contribution is kind of below expectation. He went 0-for-3 on the play. Are you concerned about that if the run produce that offense?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA: We're not getting it done in the batter's box right now in these first couple of games. But these guys can turn it around very quickly. They've hit for us all season. They'll hit here. You know, you have to just keep grinding it out. Torii has been as clutch as anybody in the league. Vlad, same way. And Bobby Abreu has been maybe our best offensive player. So there's no concern. But sure, we need these guys to start chipping in and doing their part. And we're very confident they will.   
 THE MODERATOR: Safe trip, Mike. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT