AL DIVISION SERIES: ANGELS v RED SOX
October 3, 2007
Mike Scioscia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Very simply, is there anything anybody can do with pitching like that?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA:  This kid, you know, this is really the story tonight is Beckett.  The guy pitched an incredible ballgame.  We didn't have many good looks at him.  I thought John, you know, as the game went on settled down and pitched well, but, you know, we need more batter's box offense, obviously.   
  
  Q.  What did Josh have going for him tonight?  And can you talk about Lackey's lack of strikes throwing strikes.   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA:  Yeah, I'll start with John first, I think you're right on the money with John, early in the game getting early-count strikes was tough.  He was trying to get back in the counts and it's too good of an offense for you to be behind as he was.  As the game went on, he started to get ahead.  You saw the game was easier for John, and he put guys away.   
 Beckett was about as good as we've seen him.  I don't think you're going to be able to pitch a much better game than that.  We didn't get too many looks at him, you know.  And we just didn't quite pitch early in the game at a high enough level to stay within a run or two to give ourselves a chance to manufacture or do something.  But obviously, you know, the way Beckett was throwing the ball tonight, runs were going to be at a premium, and we didn't get any.   
  
  Q.  You talked about runs being at a premium.  Did that factor into the decision to have Chone run in the first inning?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA:  Well, whether you're going to score runs or not, you're going to have to play the game as it unfolds.  And we had a chance in the first inning, obviously, when Chone led off with a base hit to try to get a little offense going.  Orlando moved him to second, and he had third base, we thought stolen.  And Vlad hit the ball and just found Lowell.  Lowell actually made a good read on that ball.  Stayed back enough to make the play.  Then after that we, you know, I don't know how many retired, 15, 16, 17 straight, however many it was.   
 We didn't have too many good looks at him, so you knew it was going to be tough.   
  
  Q.  With the day off would players rather just get back out there after a loss or do you think it's always an advantage for them to have rest at this point in the season?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA:  I think there's time for days off in the season in the playoffs.  I'm going to be honest with you, this is a weird set-up.  And the fact that this series is a five-game series stretches out so long, we'll see, you know, if it affects any team.  It's certainly going to let you reset your bullpen easier.  It wasn't a factor tonight with either team.  You know, we'll see.   
 You know, we want to get out there, obviously, and I think our guys are disappointed at the offensive effort.  I know they are.  But at times you've got to tip your cap, and it was a terrific game that Beckett pitched.  And hopefully we're going to get another crack at them.   
  
  Q.  With Ortiz's home run there, having that one-two punch back for him is obviously a difference maker in the series.  Your feelings on that combination?   
 MIKE SCIOSCIA:  We've seen that combination together for quite some time.  And it's as good as it gets.  You've got a left-right balance, and you've got two guys that get the ball out of any part of any ballpark and able to hit pitches.  Those guys are good.  They have to make good pitches.   
 As the game went on John did make better pitches, but at that point it was just kind of a breaking ball that stayed a little bit too much on the plate and David hit it.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT