AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v WHITE SOX
October 16, 2005
Mike Scioscia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE SCIOSCIA:  The first thing I want to congratulate the White Sox and their organization, Ozzie Guillen.  They played a terrific series.  They outplayed us and they deserve to move on.  So we tip our cap to them.  We obviously had great expectations coming into this series and it didn't pan out for us, but we did everything we could, and we played at a high level where they beat us, and they deserve to move on and we congratulate them.

Q.  Could you tell from your vantage point the 1-2 ball from K-Rod to Crede and where that missed?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  I think Ed Rapuano called it high, and it was -- you know, it was either the top of the strike zone or it was out of the top of the strike zone.  It was close and we didn't get the call.

Q.  And your argument on the tag play earlier in the game?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  Well, the only thing I was saying was where Jerry Crawford was -- from his angle, I didn't know if he could see if he had the ball out of his glove or not to be able to overrule it.  They got the call right.  That's what they get together to do, to get it right, and they got it right. 

Q.  Just kind of more of the same from the White Sox pitching, another good game by Contreras and just kind of you guys obviously didn't hit the ball well, but their pitching, a lot of that?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  Well, with the experience I've had in the playoffs, whether I was managing or playing, I've never seen four horses like that that come out of the gate and have pitched so well.  You might have to go back to Sandy Koufax, Don Drysdale, that group, or the group Baltimore had in, I guess, '66.  These guys pitched tremendous baseball.  We had our hands full with trying to do some of the things we wanted to do offensively, and they got the job done offensively.  We did everything we do, and unfortunately the only lead we got was slim and we couldn't hold on to it tonight.

Q.  What was your biggest disappointment tonight and for the whole series?

MIKE SCIOSCIA:  You know, I'm going to be honest with you, it's tough to lose -- I can't be disappointed with that group of guys down there because they poured their hearts out on the field.  I'm proud to be associated with them.  It was a tough series.  I can't be disappointed with anything about that group of guys down there in the Angel clubhouse.  They're beautiful.  You know, it's tough to lose, but I'll tell you what, those guys poured their hearts into everything they did this series, and it didn't work out.


End of FastScripts...`            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT