AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ANGELS
October 4, 2004
Mike Scioscia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mike, Johnny Damon has said that the Angels are the best team that the Red Sox have faced this year.  I am just wondering, from perspective, who is the best team, the team that played toughest this year and why.  
 
MIKE SCIOSCIA: We had a tough road to the playoffs, and it seemed like there were so many teams that were championship caliber out here, not only on the West Coast but teams that we played throughout the year, I don't think there was a team playing better baseball at the time than when we played Boston back there in the last series, we were there, and they took it to us pretty well.  We want to play very well.  I think we are playing much better baseball now, so we are going to be encouraged by that.  I think it's tough to pick one team.  I know the Red Sox were on an incredible run.  I know they are playing -- they played incredible baseball the second half of the season.  We witnessed it firsthand in Fenway, but, you know, the road to the playoffs, I don't know if you are going to pick one team that was the toughest because we played a lot of terrific teams.  Texas and Oakland were incredible challenges in our division.  They, at times, played some of the best baseball we saw all season.  So it's tough to narrow it down to one.  
 

Q.  Mike, how do you think other teams and other people in baseball look at the Angels? 
 
MIKE SCIOSCIA: Well, I am not so much focused on how other teams or other managers or media perceive us because I know our focus is always in-house, but I like to think they think of us as a team they can -- that can challenge close in a lot of ways.  I think some guys can drive the ball.  I think we have got a starting rotation that, as of right now, is throwing the ball as well as any rotation in baseball, with what I think is the best bullpen in baseball.  So I think we present some challenges to other clubs.  You know, we lived at times this season, but I am not caught up in really the perception that's out there because that's really not important at all for what we need to do.  But I like to think, if I was on the outside looking in, it's exciting to watch a club like others go after it day in and day out.  The things these guys do on the field, I think it's a great team to watch, it's a talented team and it's a team that is championship caliber.  
 

Q.  I know this is almost indescribable, but to put into words, how would you describe what Vlad has done over the last ten days, two weeks for your team.  
 
MIKE SCIOSCIA:  Well, I think, first of all, Vlad, flat out for me, and for, I know, a lot of people that have seen him every day, is the MVP of our league for a number of reasons.  What he did, not only the last week of the season, and it was incredible, he had stretches this year that were as incredible as the last week, ten days, for longer stretches.  This guy at times carried us on his back, not only at the plate.  What he did at the field, the way he controlled the running game of guys not taking extra bases, to the way he would steel a base and create a situation to score a run.  He did it all.  He was out there every day playing.  He was playing in pain and productive, and for a long time he was a lone soldier for us that was doing the job.  So to appreciate Vlad, you had to see him every day.  This was the first chance a lot of us have had to see him play every day.  The first day of spring training he was out in right field, and he was working on his defense like it's a World Series game.  You knew this guy was for real and why that talent turned into so much productivity.  You have to see him every day to appreciate what Vlad did, and hopefully everyone is going to get a chance to see him in this series.  
 

Q.  Do you feel better equipped in terms of starting pitches than you did two years ago, and if so, how? 
 
MIKE SCIOSCIA: I think we definitely are.  You know, one thing about 2002, we had some well-pitched games, but we weren't as consistent as we needed to be at times.  I think right now where our rotation is, and the way guys are throwing the ball, it's definitely a rotation that is championship caliber, and it's the type of look you need to give a team like Boston as you are getting into a series with them.  So I think right now we have got some excellent arms in our rotation, and compared to 2002, hopefully you have, you know, John Washburn still throwing well, he was there, a more experienced John Lackey, who showed in 2002 that experience isn't everything by starting the 7th game of the World Series and winning.  And when you combine Escobar and Bartolo, these are power arms, and it's -- like I said, it's the type of arms you need to win a series against a club as talented as Boston.  
 

Q.  Mike, how is the atmosphere and the feeling around the team different now than it was on the same day two years ago? 
 
MIKE SCIOSCIA:  There are some similarities from two years ago, and there are some distinct differences from two years ago.  I don't know if our starting lineup is as set as it was two years ago, or as deep right now of a roster as it was two years ago, but I definitely feel that our pitching is better than it was two years ago.  I think that translates into an atmosphere of -- we have a lot of guys that think -- they call themselves the field 2 guys, and they believe they can do anything.  They believe they can go out there and achieve in any situation, they are not scared of any situation, and it's been fun to watch these guys the last months because we wouldn't be here without the contributions of a lot of those guys that played and stepped up and created a role for themselves and were terrific at it.  So our feeling right now, I think we are at the same level of confidence, very, very good, at where our team is, and we know it's going to take a team effort to get us there, and we have a lot of young guys in our club that are getting the chance.  We have some more veteran players that have been around that are going to step in and fill in roles.  It's a great mixture.  These guys are very, very confident right now, and they are going to play their game, you know that, and this is our game, we present a challenge to our clubs. They know the challenge ahead.  I don't think they are any more prepared or less prepared, because these guys showed in 2002 playoffs, they had never been in a playoff in their life, and they played remarkable baseball.  So I don't think they are any more prepared because the challenges are different, but I think the one thing they understand is the ability to play in-house and play our game, focus within our game.  (Inaudible) that should carry over to the playoff situation now.   
 

Q.  Mike, why did you go with Kotchman? 
 
MIKE SCIOSCIA:  I think looking for some balance from the left-right side, and Casey's ability to play outstanding first base, add diversity, was one of the factors there.  I think coming off the bench Casey showed he is going to put the ball to play hard, and that could create some valuable situations where we are going to need contact in a situation.  Casey is going to be a candidate for that.  So it gives us a little more bench depth, it gives us a little more balance, and it was a tough decision because Shane brings some valuable things to a team also, but we are very, very confident that despite Casey's age and lack of experience, he is a very talented ball player.   
 

Q.  In Oakland yesterday you were saying you are going to have a three, three and a half, four-man rotation.  Could you talk about what your plans are today, what your approach it? 
 
MIKE SCIOSCIA:  We are going to have a three, three and a half, or four-man rotation.  What I was alluding to was the fact, I think the way we were starting out with Kotch and Bartolo and Kelvim, with John Lackey pencilled in for the fourth game, gives us the flexibility of keeping John in the fourth spot, or if we need John in games 1 and 2, we can get John out of the bullpen in games 1 and 2 so, therefore, it could be a full four-man rotation.  If we feel good about John starting game 4, he will.  That gives us the options of Wash or Bartolo coming back in game 5.  If we had need John earlier and we have to adjust, there is the option of bringing back Wash or Bartolo on three days' rest, which they have done once this year, and they are terrific at it.  So I think that flexibility that Buddy and I have talked about is important.  We are not going to win this series unless we pitch, and that's why it's going to be important for these guys to do a job, and we can adjust to get some better combinations or better match-ups maybe later in the series if we are going to need help, and that's why we lined it up this way.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT