U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 18, 2019
Sally Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Probably not the way you wanted to play today --  
SALLY AUSTIN: No, embarrassed, actually.  Especially that was my first three-putt right there, and it was a good first putt, and it wasn't a bad second putt, I just -- at the last minute there, I just decided I over-read it, and I hadn't.  That's the way it is.  I told people I feel like Steve Sax, remember, the second baseman that couldn't throw to first?  That's what I felt like today.  Kept throwing it in the dirt.   
 Q.  What do you do now for tomorrow?  
SALLY AUSTIN: I don't know, it's between my ears, and I've just got to get back up on the horse and ride it and hope I keep putting well.  I hit it well on the last four holes, so we'll see.  Just hit some spastic shots out there.  It's a horrible feeling.   
 Q.  Did you maybe place too much pressure on yourself?  
SALLY AUSTIN: I always place too much pressure on myself, and I try and -- I'm really working on not doing that and learning how to cope with that.  You'd think I know -- I know how to tell other people not to do it.   
 Q.  What's the difference in playing in a state event or whatever -- you're on a national stage right now --  
SALLY AUSTIN: I mean, that's part of it.  Part of it is lack of competition.  I don't play in much.  You get into it, and if you're playing regularly in tournaments, you learn -- you just get into a groove, and those kind of things don't creep in as much or as often or always, and when you don't play much competition, you don't have any way to work it out because it's different than just picking it up and going out and playing nine holes.   
 Q.  Do you almost have to coach yourself?  
SALLY AUSTIN: I try.  I talk to myself just like I used to talk to my players, trying to, again, deep breathe and whatever.  I was good at that today.  I just hit some really stinkers out there.   
 Q.  How about the following, people out there watching you?  Was there a good group with you?  
SALLY AUSTIN: Yeah, they got to see some ugly golf, too.   
 Q.  What are you going to do now, go hit some balls?  
SALLY AUSTIN: I might hit a few balls.  It's really -- I don't know, hitting balls until the cows come home, I don't know if that's going to help any.  I need a lobotomy is what I need, or maybe a bottle in front of me.  That's what a friend told me one time.   
 Q.  What was different today than yesterday?  
SALLY AUSTIN: I don't know.  I was cruising, and I was putting well, and I made some great pars.  And then I really don't know exactly where it all went off, and then I hit just a horrible shot on 11 and I had to take a lost ball.  Where else?  Just some terrible shots.  And then I'm starting to try to correct, and then I'm thinking about my golf swing too much, and then I can tell you -- y'all want to hear all this?  I'm watching the club head go back.  It's ridiculous what I'm doing.  I would never -- I would coach anybody out of that, or try to.   
 Q.  Your golfers, when that kind of thing is going on --  
SALLY AUSTIN: I would try to tell them to do a rehearsal swing and try to get the same feel and have one swing thought and deep breathe, and I was trying to do all that.   
 Q.  This isn't easy, you haven't had a chance really to process yourself, and we're asking you to talk --  
SALLY AUSTIN: I've been processing pretty much the whole way around.  I know you just don't hit -- as many golf balls as I've hit in my life, you don't hit shots as bad as I hit them because -- I mean, I don't have the best golf swing in the world, but my goodness, I can hit a ball, but you just feel spastic.  There are a lot of great golfers that I just hope I can -- I just hope I start hitting it better because I want to play.  I want to keep playing.  You don't want to hit it -- Ian Baker-Finch is a good example, one of the nicest guys in the world, and he just -- I don't know, you just get these things.  Kevin Na, you get these things.  They got out of them.  I'll tell you what, people that can get out of it I hold in high regard, and they ought to write a book or something and tell people how to do it because it's not easy.  That's what I tell my players, it's not easy, other people have it, Steve Sax throwing from second to first.  I don't know if any of y'all remember that, but I sure do.  It was pathetic.  I felt so badly for him because he wasn't trying to do that.  You know, you're out there trying your best and you're just -- you short-circuit out there, your brain does.  I have a lot of that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT