THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2021
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you describe your round today?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, good.  Pretty solid.  When I was in position I was able to attack and make some birdies and I was fortunate enough when I got out of position with the driver a few times I was able to get back in play and make some good par saves, which I think to keep the moment going is very important.  Made some birdies on the par-3s which you really don't plan on, and obviously very happy with the 4-under par round.
 Q. Played well last week, playing well again this week.  The form coming into this as we get into this big stretch of golf here, form kind of getting going?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, you know, the form at the beginning of the year was great and then my back went out unfortunately through the West Coast Swing and I wasn't able to practice or play, a couple of WDs.  And now I'm back healthy, I'm getting that momentum going again.  Back feels good and the putter has been going good, and looking forward to hitting a few more fairways and having a little bit more opportunity to make some more birdies this weekend.
 Q. Have you had back problems before that?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I'm 44 years old, I think it sort of comes with the territory, unfortunately.  I don't see it coming.  It's not like lingering back, it's sort of a spasm here and there happens, but usually recovers in three or four days and hopefully those three or four days aren't during a tournament.
 Q. Your record here is not tremendous, but obviously when you're playing well it doesn't matter what course you're playing.
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, I like this date a little bit better.  I think it puts driver in your hand a little bit more on this golf course in March instead of May.  You can sort of -- I won't say dink it around, because you can hit some 3-woods off the tees.  But I've always prided myself on my driver play and being able to squeeze it in some spots other people can't.  I've been able to do that.  Obviously made some birdies on some hard holes and some good holes on the par-5s, but I think this date fits my game a little bit more than the May date.
 Q. Biggest thing for you to work on going into the weekend that can keep you in contention?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, keep making putts and hit a few more fairways.  The rough is not getting any shorter and the greens aren't going to get any softer, I promise you.  It's going to be a premium on getting the ball in the fairway and I think that's the focus this afternoon, make sure the driver is feeling good and have a good weekend.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT