RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2013
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A nice 5‑under, 66, your thoughts on how you played today?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, I played pretty good.   My shots ended up in spots where I could get up and down.   17 actually was not the best spot.   
   
 Q.   A couple of weeks ago you played, tied for third at Valero, 20th at Houston.   What have you found here the last three weeks that's gotten you some pretty good numbers?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Hitting it pretty good, driving it pretty good and making a couple of putts.   If my putter gets going, I always have a chance making those 10‑ to 12‑footer birdie putts.  
   
 Q.   Thinking about the conditions out there today, did the wind play as much of an issue as it did?   I talked to the morning guys and they were trying to figure out what club to hit.   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   It wasn't too bad out there.   It was pretty benign out there, semi‑soft conditions.   The wind was blowing, and I hear it always blows.   It wasn't too bad.  
   
 Q.   What have you learned playing this golf course?   Tied for 8th last year, you haven't played this tournament a lot of times, but what have you learned to help you work your way around here?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I had zero success early here.   I didn't have the patience to play this golf course.   Now I know which side of the fairways to hit it on, and now I can hit it on that side of the fairways sometimes.   Sometimes it's better to be in the rough.   I learned this golf course, and know when you can miss it and get it up and down.   
If you're going to miss greens here, you're going to have a hard time.   That's what I've learned throughout the years here.  
   
 Q.   Your round today, you almost got to the lead.   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, I was in the lead for most of the day, but a bogey on 17.   But I'm happy 5‑under.   You can't win it on Thursday, but you can lose it.   So I'm pretty happy where I'm at.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel you played?   You were making a lot of birdies out there.   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, I played good.   I hit my birdie opportunities for the most part early on the back nine and just sort of held on at the end, had a couple of chances and just barely missed.   I'm happy with anytime you shoot 5‑under out here.  
   
 Q.   Rain might be in the forecast for this weekend, are you happy to get in and have a good opening round today?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, obviously.   Hopefully it holds off after we play tomorrow.   And then I can get done and not deal with any delays, and hopefully miss it on Saturday.   Rain is something we deal with on a weekly basis.  
   
 Q.   You played pretty well here last year.   Some pretty good feelings?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, I had zero good feelings out here the first few years.   Actually took it off the schedule for the most part because I just hadn't played very well out here.   I added it last year just to check it out because I had been playing well, and sneaked a top‑10 finish here last year, and obviously good vibes carried out through today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT