VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 5, 2013
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Charley, a good start with three straight birdies and a great finish with birdies on 17 and 18.   That was kind of a neat round.   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, it was fun.   I started off really well with three birdies and actually played the rest of the round pretty good and just didn't make any putts and then made a couple coming in.   It all added up to 5‑under, and 5‑under around this place is pretty good.  
   
 Q.   How did the conditions change today?   Was it easier today?   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   There was no wind today for us in the morning, and the conditions were pretty soft.   The greens‑‑ I wouldn't say soft, but the greens were receptive.   If you hit the fairways and hit shots into them, they stopped.   Today I hit a bunch of fairways.   Yesterday I didn't hit many fairways.   I was scrambling and shot 1‑under.   Today I hit a bunch of fairways and gave myself an opportunity to make some birdies.  
   
 Q.   We taped a segment a couple weeks ago in Orlando, and you were working hard on your driver and trying to keep things on the fairway.   Is it coming to life now?   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, it is.   Healthy now, in the beginning of the year I was banged up a little bit.   But now I'm feeling good and getting in the role and hopefully keep it going this weekend.  
   
 Q.   Is the family here?   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, wife, daughter.   Hopefully, it warms up and they can get in the pool at the JW.  
   
 Q.   That's what I was going to ask you.   I guess today is pool time for the Hoffman family.   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, hopefully the sun stays out and the heat comes and we can go on the slides.   
   
 Q.   Charley, overall, you have played this golf tournament very well and you're continuing it this week.   What do you like most about this golf course that seems to bring out the best in you?   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I don't know.   I played good over at La Cantera when it was there, and ever since it's moved here to TPC I've played well also.   Maybe it's something in San Antonio.   I enjoy coming here.   I like the Mexican food, and I enjoy the area.  
   
 Q.   Overall, you're not in The Masters.   You've played it once.   With a win, and you've put yourself into position to do that, you can make the field at Augusta.   How much are you thinking of that in the back of your mind?   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   It's a great added bonus.   First and foremost, I just want to have a chance coming in on the back nine on Sunday.   Got a lot of golf to be there.   Obviously, if you get the W, it will be a nice little jet ride over to Augusta and have a chance to play there for the second time.  
   
 Q.   Overall, what will it take for you this weekend to make that happen?   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I can't control what everybody else does.   The conditions were fairly easy this morning.   I'm sure some guys are going to play pretty well this afternoon.   I just like giving myself a chance coming in on Sunday.   I think I'm a pretty good competitor.   If I have a chance with a few holes to play, that's all I can ask for.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT