FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 24, 2013
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you content with your play on the North?   
    CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, I hit some good shots, made a couple of good putts and missed some short ones.   But the North Course isn't as easy as everybody thinks it is.   There are some tough small little short putts you can get out there.   
    But 2‑under didn't kill me.   Obviously, got the South Course tomorrow.   So if I get 2‑under out there, I'll be happy.   All in all, didn't kill myself, but definitely didn't help myself.  
   
 Q.   The greens are a little different this year.   They normally are a little bit faster?  
    CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, they're a little firmer on the North Course, no rain.   The rough's not real high, so if you miss the fairway, you can still get to the green.   
    But there are a couple of new pins.   Usually they're pretty consistent where they keep the pins on the North Course.   There are probably a half dozen pins out there I haven't seen before, which is good.   It's a little tricky, and I don't think there are any real low scores going on on the course.  
   
 Q.   They just said that 7‑under is kind of the theme.   (Indiscernible).   
    CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, 7‑under pars, you get that every week on the PGA TOUR.   For the most part you're used to seeing 10‑, 11‑under sometimes.   But 7‑under is definitely reasonable.  
   
 Q.   On the South tomorrow, do you have a number in mind?   
    CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   You just try to survive that golf course.   The Pro‑Am played tough yesterday.   It was pretty firm.   I don't know how much rain we got out there, but I see the greens are still really firm out there.   But depending on the pin placement with the PGA TOUR Rules Officials, generally, you can make a few birdies, but if they get tough and stick them in the corners, it is going to be hard to make any pars.   
   
 Q.   How different are the two greens from yesterday to today?   
    CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I played the South Course yesterday, so they were much firmer and faster on the South Course than they were on the North Course.   But, the North Course, in previous years, they're very nice and very fast and very firm.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT