MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2019
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about how weird it was this morning putting green with the headphones on and then the dark with the spot lights on you, how different is that for ‑‑  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Well for Augusta it's different but to be honest with you, week‑in and week‑out we do that on our own Thursday, Friday parings, usually there's a day where you're warming up sort of in the dark. So nothing new, but Sunday I know it's different for those leaders, I've been in those last groups, you sort of are wondering what to do to kill the time and I think it's nice for those guys to get right out there and sort of get after it. And but for here it's different, for TV it's different, but all in all we want to get this tournament in on a Sunday and I think we're going to do a good job trying.  
   
 Q. Behind No. 5 it seems like it's really quiet back there. As loud as this place is, once you get to 5 tee box it just seems like it's different there. Talk about what you think about that new area behind 5 tee.   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I'm not worried about the gallery, I'm worried more about the hardest hole on the golf course. Yeah, there's a lot of people that don't come through that way because obviously the Berckmans entrance is more by the green and no one's really going backwards there. So if you're following groups there's not that many people out there, but it's a heck of a hole and it's one of those that it's a place that, yeah, not a lot of people are hanging out.  
   
 Q. Do you feel like they accomplished what they wanted to with the redesign there at 5, forcing you guys to hit longer clubs in and making it the toughest hole on the course?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I don't know what they were trying to accomplish to be completely honest, I think the only good thing that came out of it is that 4th hole you don't have to wait for that tee shot on 5 now. So whatever they did to 5 is what they did but I think it really cleaned up the 4th hole.  
   
 Q. You got out there early today, how do you think this wind's going to affect these last guys here, it is starting to pick up pretty good?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, it's been blowing for the last few hours, I mean it's ‑‑ unfortunately when the course is soft you can get it, if you're hitting good quality shots and I expect guys, some guys to make birdies and some guys to make bogeys, but you know, the greens are receptive enough to exceptional golf shots.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT