AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2010
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. If I told you at this beginning of the day you were going to shoot 3-under you would have been happy with that?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, 3-under is a good score today.

 Q. Tell me about this golf course and the conditions out there today. 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: You know what, the fairways are fairly generous, but they're speeding up a little bit. And the rough is tall. If you miss the fairways on the second shot or the drive, it's tough to get it back into play and make a par.

 Q. As you said, the fairways are generous, and if you only miss the fairway by a little bit, that seems to be where the worst rough is. 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, it's just off the fairways, always the worst rough. I mean, it's playing tough no matter where it is. You want to keep it in the fairway, that's for sure. 

 Q. You gave yourself a couple good birdie looks but they were above the hole, which makes it tough. 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, the pins coming in, the greens are so firm you can't really get underneath the hole. The greens are rolling great, though. You just want to give yourself as many chances if you can. If you can't make it, you want to make sure you can two-putt it.

 Q. What are you happiest with with your game?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I'm driving it good and putting myself in the fairway, so I have the possibility of attacking the flags, and I'm just trying to keep it in front of me and put together a couple good rounds. 
 I didn't really know what to expect going into this week, but definitely when you got out here the rough was even longer. They cut it down a few inches on Tuesday evening to make it a little more playable. But it definitely has a major feel out here, and it's great to have the community of Philly behind us. 

 Q. What's the season been like for you?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It's been close. I was hurt at the beginning of the year with a wrist injury and everything is getting back in order now, so better late than never. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT