ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SMITH & NEPHEW
June 11, 2010
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Charlie Hoffman into the interview room after a 5-under par. He's our leader at 8-under par. Charlie, great playing out there today. If we can just get some comments on your round.  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Start off a little slow, actually. Made a good par save on 1 and made a few more pars and made a bogey on -- converted, I think about par 5 and got it going. Made a good putt on 7 for birdie. Parred 8, birdie on 9 and got it going a little bit, 9, 10, 11. I made birdies 12, and then I birdied 13, 14 -- 14 actually made the longest putt of my life, about 90-footer on 14, front left part of the green trying to get it down to it. Made birdie there. I think I parred in from there and pretty good round.  
 JOHN BUSH: Little bit about your season up to this point. Not quite what were you expecting. Talk a little bit about it.  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah. West coast where I grew up usually is where I play well, won the Bob Hope there. Usually pretty good success. Phoenix or San Diego. I was injured, wrist was hurt, and didn't play very well, and took five weeks off right after that to let the wrist heal, and everything is about 90, 95 percent.   
 Played good at the Players. Didn't have the finish I wanted. Played good at San Antonio. Didn't finish very well. Hopefully, getting going this week and finish a little better. That's the main goal for me for the week, no matter where I finish, to play good coming down the stretch. I haven't done that this year. That's that I've prided myself in the past, having to play good when I get in contention.  
 JOHN BUSH: Questions.  
  
  Q. How did you hurt your wrist, and talk about that?  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: No idea. I wish I knew. I started hurting L.A, Pebble area. The only thing I could think of my -- I was hitting a ton of bunker shots in the off-season, and just there's a capsule in the hand that they said was swollen, and the two bones when I would make a full swing would pinch it. I guess it was -- I would say over-practice more than anything during the off-season.  
  
  Q. Which one?  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Left wrist. Right in this her this area (indicating).  
  
  Q. The back-9 you kind of slowed down a bit. Talk about that being the heat a factor, or was it hot out there?  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: The pace of play slowed down a little bit. So obviously you don't try to run your ball and wait and run to your ball. You sort of slow your walk down when there's a wait. We waited from 14 on, on pretty much every shot. You sort of just slow down, and definitely heat is a factor. You're not going to run up that far when it's 95 or 95 percent humidity.  
 JOHN BUSH: Next question?  
  
  Q. You like playing quicker? You like a little bit quicker pace?  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I think I pull the trigger quicker than most. I wouldn't say -- you get a little too fast and you might get out of rhythm a little bit. I definitely would prefer playing faster than slower. I would consider myself a medium to fast player for sure.  
 JOHN BUSH: He's let's go through the card. Bogey on No. 5.  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I pulled it left off my second shot. I was in the middle of the fairway. I was in the bunker, had a decent shot, 5 feet, and the putt didn't happen to go in .  
 JOHN BUSH: You birdied 7 and an 8-hole stretch starting with No. 7.  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Made a good putt on 7, probably 30-footer.   
 9 hit it pretty close, 15 feet.   
 10, I hit it about 15 feet.   
 11, about 8 or 9. Made that. Those are the ones you need to make to get the round going.  
 Then made like about a 25, 30-footer on 13, and 14 got lucky and made it from the front left part of the green, trying to get a par on that hole any day and sneaking away with a 2 in the Kodak Challenge hole is always good.  
 JOHN BUSH: 77 feet, 8 inches.  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I think they gypped me a few feet (laughter).  
 JOHN BUSH: Anything else? Charlie, great playing through two rounds. Keep it going.  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Thanks. Appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT