MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2018
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What shall we talk about? What do you think? You hit the 20th ace ever at 16. Talk about it?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It's a hole that you know that you can make an ace on, but most people don't pull it and bounce it off the top of the bunker and come in from the left‑hand side. It wasn't my perfect shot I was looking for, but somehow it just carried the bunker and took a right and went in the hole. I mean it's a great experience and a great feeling and it's something you're thinking on that hole but not the way I did it. 

Q. What did you think when the ball first came off the club?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Carry. Carry the bunker. Just hopefully have a 15, 20‑footer down the hill from the left‑hand side. I saw it bounce and I'm like, whoa, that's got a chance and I think my caddie yelled, go in, and I saw the crowd's hands go up and the thing fell. 

Q. How fast did your heart start pumping?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Fast. It was moving. I'm glad there was a little wait on the next tee because the group in front of us didn't tee off for awhile because of how loud it was and I got the heart rate to cam down a little bit and I was able to play the last two holes.

Q. Took you about 45 minutes to an hour to come in, I see you're still getting high‑fives. What's the feeling like for you now?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: You know first and foremost just 352 days ago I wasn't very happy walking off this golf course and today I am. It's just amazing how much a year makes. I didn't play well on Sunday last year and this year I come back and I was able to make an ace on 16 and hopefully get a Top‑12 and secure myself back here next year.

Q. Short of winning the Green Jacket is that the greatest feeling you can have on this course?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I think so. This golf course just gives me memories after memories, so hopefully I can keep that going on. 

Q. Club and yardage?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It was 6‑iron and I think the yardage was 184. 

Q. What's the takeaway from that moment?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Obviously I knew I didn't have a chance to win the Green Jacket, but I was trying to get myself, play myself in contention to come back next year without having to worry about World Ranking or anything like that. So I knew I had to play those last four holes well. Obviously I birdied 15 and then I was just trying to birdie 16, maybe have a chance at 17 and 18. I thought 6‑under was going to be it for me. I pulled my 6‑iron a little bit there and was just hoping to carry the bunker and the thing kicked right and fell in the hole and I feel very lucky. 

Q. 6‑iron?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I think it was 184. 6‑iron. I pulled it. I was aiming right trying to funnel it down like everybody else does and I definitely pulled it. 

Q. Surprised that it ended up in the hole?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Oh, yeah, I was surprised when ‑‑ I was happy when it got over the bunker and then I'm like, whoa, that took a bounce right toward the pin and it went in and obviously a great feeling. 

Q. Did Tony coach you on the hole‑in‑one celebration?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: That was the comment on the next one, how many people commented on his ankle and how he's getting a little tired of it. 

Q. How would you rate your celebration there versus your one at the Presidents Cup?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I think the Presidents Cup was a little bit more. We were trying to close that match out and I'm trying to make that shot at the Presidents Cup‑‑ not that I'm not trying to make it a 6‑iron at the Masters‑‑ but I knew what I needed to do at the Presidents Cup and that was, and to have a teammate‑‑ not that my caddie is not a teammate‑‑ but that was a way ‑‑ both are really cool feelings ‑‑ but that Presidents Cup one was awesome.

Q. Unique in the practice range, that wedge you had that blue donut on it. What does that help with?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It just, it helps me with tempo a little bit. So taking it back too fast it just sort of slows me down and helps me keep my rhythm.

Q. What's it called?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It's called ‑‑ I don't know. I always forget. I don't know what it's called. One of my instructors gave it to me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT