THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2010
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 4-under 68 today, obviously got to be happy. You got your position in 8-under headed into the weekend?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, I feel great. Got off to another good start today. I shot 4-under on the back nine, which was my front nine, and sort of slowed it down on the back nine which is the front nine. 
 Made a bunch of pars, really never hit it close. Unfortunate three-putt on 8 and got it back on 9 with a birdie. All in all real happy, putting the ball in play, keeping the ball in front of me and made a few putts.

 Q. You were just talking to the XM folks about being surprised at some of the scores. Can you just touch on that a little bit? 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, the scores are pretty low. Before I went out there was an 11-under or a 10-under or something like that. You don't see that at the beginning of the week. The rough's not up like it usually is. The winter didn't let the grass grow like it normally does out here. So the scores are a little lower than they usually are. 
 I think the greens are going to firm up this weekend and probably going stay about where they're at.

 Q. Did the course play the same today as it did yesterday? 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: No, I teed off at 7:15 in the morning. It was a little softer yesterday morning. Wind didn't blow really at all yesterday. I mean, it picked up a little this afternoon. Greens got a little crustier this afternoon. And all in all, probably a little tougher today.

 Q. Is your wrist at all affecting how you're swinging the golf club? Do you have to make any adjustments? 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Zero adjustments, no. Obviously, if I have to hit down hard on one or something like that and try to hold off my pinch. But haven't put myself in that situation yet. 
 So it's been great. This is the third week I've played on it. The first week was a little tender because I honestly didn't swing a club for four and a half weeks, so it was a little different. But now it's back, and I think it's golf-healthy again.

 Q. Is it encouraging knowing that you're able to kind of play through that now and play some good golf even with it? 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Well, yeah. More than anything it was hard at the start. I've never taken four weeks off -- or four or five weeks off of golf in my life. And doing that this week or at the beginning of the year was the hardest thing I've ever done. My patience, I guess, has paid off and I've come back and playing some good golf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT