ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2009
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round, it looked like you were really in control of the game for me. Hit 14 greens, take 25 putts?  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, I putted it good today. I had a couple of wayward iron shots in the middle of the round on 1 and 3. But besides that, I did pretty well.  
  
  Q. I walked with you on Sunday at FBR, that's a disappointing ending. I've always thought you had a lot of game, and I think this could be a good year for you.   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, I was in contention at FBR, and finished strong there. Unfortunately, I didn't get in the playoffs, but obviously took a lot of momentum for the rest of the year from that.   
  
  Q. That experience, I imagine, will pay off this weekend as well?  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, that's all you want to do is be in contention on Sunday.   
  
  Q. It's been a couple of years now since you won at the Bob Hope. Is it a little frustrating that you haven't come back in the winners circle?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Not really. Last year I didn't have any opportunities to win. It was frustrating because I didn't play good golf. But this year, playing good golf, giving myself chances, and certainly the door will open.  
  
  Q. I always thought you'd be a great Match Play player. And I know you don't want to think that far ahead. But you'd welcome playing on the Presidents Cup, wou;dn't you?  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I would love to play on the Presidents Cup. I would definitely love to do it at the end of the year, and hopefully I can fulfill it.  
  
  Q. You're sponsored by Waste Management. This is green out here and it's earth week. It's all tying together for you, buddy?  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It means a lot to us and waste management and our team. Just think green and recycle.   
  
  Q. What's working for you today?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I drove it all right. And on the bad drives that I hit, I got away with, but I converted my birdie opportunities. That's one thing.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about the week?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It's good. I feel like I played all right golf. I'm at 9 under.   
 Hopefully the leader doesn't run too far away this afternoon, and I get a good chance this weekend.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on the scoring conditions? Do you think they'll continue to improve? Are there a lot of opportunities out there for you guys?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I think it was comparable yesterday. It's going to firm up this afternoon, and it's probably going to be tough for these guys.  
  
  Q. The par 3 at number 3, it's been one of the most challenging holes this week. What's been the challenge? The wind, the tee box or all of the above?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yesterday, it played like 230. So it was a long hole. Today it was actually fairly easy hole. The location, only had 5 or 6-iron in there and had some green work. But it's a tough hole.   
 The wind is blowing left to right, there is water right. And you definitely don't want to miss it over there.  
  
  Q. How far was the birdie on 8?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Probably around a 35-footer.  
  
  Q. Is that one of your top ones today?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, that is the longest putt I made all day. I hit a good wedge shot in there, and it came up a lot shorter than I thought. The wind died down a little bit. But I was able to convert.  
  
  Q. Good being in a group with someone who is in contention like David Toms?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, David played well, Whitey played well, and that's always fun to feed off the guys that are playing well and making putts.   
  
  Q. A birdie putt out there for you, but yet windy?  
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, it's a little windy on the back nine. But all in all I made the putts coming in, and made some birdies to get in contention.  
  
  Q. So close this year with losing the playoff to Kenny Perry at the FBR Open. Your thoughts on it right now?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: At the beginning of the week I didn't think much of my game. I was struggling a little bit. Trying to get the group back. Hopefully, I get it going this weekend as well as I have the first two days and hopefully I'm there on Sunday.  
  
  Q. We saw you and your wife at Emeril Lagasse's earlier this week. Are you loving the culinary major this week?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, New Orleans is a great place to eat. And Zurich took us to a great place for dinner at Emeril's. I appreciate that invite, and I'll definitely be back next year if they have it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT