FBR OPEN
January 30, 2009
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First time you've made the cut here, but how do you feel about the round? You got it to double digits and then gave back a couple. 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I played great, drove it good again today, and gave myself a lot of chances. I had a couple wedge shots that were loose coming in that I couldn't make birdie with. But I hit some shots that didn't turn out at the end and made a couple bogeys, but still right there.

 Q. Pat Perez is our spotlight player. You played junior golf with him, you guys both got married in the off-season. Are you going to try to at least match him or get a win here?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I listened to his interview last week and I guess you have to have a kid or get married to win out here, so I have one of those criteria, so hopefully I play good on the weekend and we have back-to-back wins.

 Q. How do you anticipate the atmosphere? Obviously it gets crazy on Saturday. How do you anticipate trying to stay calm and get that win?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Hopefully by the time I get to 16 maybe they've had too much to drink and they've all fallen asleep. No, it'll be fun. The crowd hopefully embraces me and hopefully I hit a good shot on the green and make birdie and give them something to cheer about. They tell me I have a mullet, but that's all right. 

 Q. I know it's not the way you were hoping to finish, but you've got to be happy with your position. 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, you always make a few bogeys out here. Unfortunately I was in the lead when it happened. But all in all, not a bad day.

 Q. First time making the cut here. How does that feel?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It's nice. Instead of flying back home to Vegas I get to hang out with the crowd here for the Super Bowl in Phoenix this year.

 Q. You're going to play 16 Saturday afternoon. 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, last group tomorrow hopefully, and the crowd is going to be great and hopefully I can try to make birdie. 

 Q. Tell me about this golf course. How has it been holding up?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It's got real firm and crusty. It's firm and fast, and the greens were rolling good, but they were firm. You had to hit quality shots in there to make birdie. 

 Q. Another round of birdies, a couple bogeys on the card. Anything different today or you just kind of kept the momentum going?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I made a few putts early. I made some birdies and made a bogey on -- actually a good bogey on 16. I hit it in the bunker and left it in there and then got it up-and-down for bogey. But coming in hit some good shots that turned into bogeys unfortunately, and fortunately enough I made enough birdies to offset that and I'm somewhere near the lead.

 Q. You haven't had a top three since Hope in '07. How important is it for a Saturday round, moving day? Do you have any number in mind? Do you want to be in the final group? 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I just want to keep hitting fairways. I think the key out here this week is to hit fairways and give yourself a chance to hit some wedges close and hopefully make a few birdies. That's all my plan is right now. Hopefully no one goes real low. Obviously it's a little bunched up. I think 9-under is leading. Pretty much anybody who makes the cut probably has a chance to win out here.

 Q. Is this place playing differently than in years past?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Like I said, I've only played the first two rounds, but this is definitely the firmest and fastest I've seen it out here in years past. It's playing great. It's a fun golf course, and it lets you make a few birdies.

 Q. How are the fans out there?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: The fans are always good. I think it's great to have people out here watching us. It's definitely better than having nobody out there, so I encourage it. 

 Q. Give me your mindset heading into the weekend. 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I'm playing the weekend so that's always a good spot in a tournament that I'll hopefully only be one shot back going into Saturday and Sunday, or Saturday, and have a good round tomorrow and hopefully have a chance to win coming down the stretch. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT