FRYS.COM OPEN BENEFITING SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN
October 10, 2007
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Charley, thanks for joining us.  Just about a year ago we were sitting in these very seats and kind of lamenting about you coming close here at the Frys.com Open.  A year later you got a win under your belt at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic earlier this year.  Talk about your season.  It's been a really solid one for you.   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  Yeah, last year ended the year with a chance to win.  Came up a little short.  Unfortunately I didn't win, but then I took pretty much the rest of the year off and came out and played my first event and won.  So it's pretty gratifying to get that first win this year that first event I played in Palm Springs.   
 The rest of the year not as great as I wanted.  I would like maybe get another win or a few top 10s.  But as of late been playing a lot better.  My theory is you get rid of those guys that are top 30 in the world it's easier to finish in the top 10 in all those other Worlds Golf events I got into.   
 So the schedule change for me I think was a little tough playing all those World Golf events.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  With the fall series upon us, you're 44th on the Money List.  I'm sure you have some goals for next year in addition to obviously wanting to win another event, but getting into the Masters and those type of things.  Maybe comment about your play this fall and why you're playing in some of the events.   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  Yeah.  The reason why I'm playing is trying to get into the Masters, top 30 Money List.  I think even if you win twice you might get in.  Either way, if I win I'm going to get into the Masters.  I've never played and that's my goal playing here in the fall as much as I have.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Okay.  And finally, you live here in the Las Vegas area, but I'm sure it's special to be able to play here in your maladapted hometown of Las Vegas.   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  Yeah.  I mean, coming home, when we're on the road as much as we do, it's great to come home and sleep in your own bed and play golf courses your familiar with.  I really didn't have to play any practice rounds.  Just cruised around on the golf course Monday just checking out the shape, and it's always nice to come home.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  This tournament is so different from others given the low numbers that are put up, and what do you think you can take from that that will maybe help you win it this time?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  I approach every tournament the same.  When I start any tournament I try to win.  So just because I'm at home this week I think I have an advantage because I play the golf courses more than anybody else.  That's really the only advantage I have.  Frame of mind and everything else is the same as any other event.   
 I'm just a little more comfortable out here on the golf courses I think.  That's the only major difference.   
  
  Q.  What did you do during your year off and why did you take it and did it help up come back?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  Actually, I had a little bit of an injury.  Screwed my ankle up playing an outing up at Pebble Beach.  Tripped down stairs and actually was forced to take some time off.  Really couldn't swing.  Came out fresh and didn't really have any expectations that first week.   
 Actually, I was more using it as a plug for San Diego where I grew up, my hometown, to get ready for that week.  At Palm Springs you're guaranteed four rounds.  It's a five-round tournament, so I was just trying to get my feet wet.  All of a sudden stumbled into a victory.   
  
  Q.  You were talking about comfort factor of being home and I know you were talking with the local guys about having a party last night and hanging out with some of the other Rebels and stuff lake that.  How does that help the whole week go along?   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  Yeah.  I mean, this is almost like a week off.  If I came home I'm going to be playing golf anyway and having friends over.  It was nice to see some of the guys that I played college golf.  Some friend and some guys that I play with on the Tour came over, just a good gathering of guys.   
 I like to have fun and hang out with friends.  That's what I liked to do, and it's nice to be able to come home and do it.  Usually on the weeks on the road you're in your hotel and maybe you go out and grab something to eat with a guy or two.  But it's nice to see everybody come together and have your friends around.   
  
  Q.  Tournaments that you have coming up, if you could just talk about the ones you're going to play and maybe just a little bit about each one.   
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  Yeah.  I'm in -- scheduled to play next week not knowing if I'm going to go or not.  But I'm planning on going to Florida.  I traditionally haven't played good golf in Florida, and one of the reasons why I want to go there is I want to improve how I've played down there in the past.  So I'm going to go to Ginn and try to play good there and then probably end up Walt Disney and play there.   
 My track record in Pro-Ams has been pretty good, so I'm going add -- last year I took that off.  This year I'm going to add that, and hopefully play good coming down the stretch.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT