ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 19, 2007
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  18 greens hit, you seemed pretty solid. 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  Yeah, I put the ball in the fairway most of the day off the tee, which is a lot easier going into these greens from the fairway than it is from the rough. 

 Q.  If the weather stays like this, how low can the scores get come Sunday? 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  I'm sort of surprised that 4-under, maybe 5-under is leading, but I think someone will probably shoot about 8-under today.  I mean, the tees are up on a few holes and the greens are rolling pretty good, so I think someone is going to go out there and do it. 

 Q.  Which hole is playing the toughest out there? 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  18 for me (laughing).  Probably around 6 is probably one of the hardest holes out there.  They moved the tees up on 15, but that might be the toughest hole. 

 Q.  Since you won the Hope, I think your best finish has been a T27.  I know you're thinking about Augusta, trying to get Top 10 Money List to get in there.  Were you putting pressure on yourself do you think during that stretch? 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  Not really.  I had a couple good chances before, and I just struggled in the last round, which -- in Tampa with eight holes left I think I was in fourth or fifth place.  If I would have capped that off and put a decent finish, I'm pretty much in Augusta.  When you put yourself in position, you want to finish fifth.  So I didn't do that, and I've played all right, only missed a couple cuts.  All in all, not that bad, just had that one bad nine holes that sort of got me from Top 10 to 20ths and 30ths. 

 Q.  18 aside, do you feel like you left many shots out there or are you pretty pleased overall? 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  I always could make a few more putts.  You can always think I hit some good shots, 12th and 15th tee.  You're not always going to make those, but if those go in, you have a great round.  Today was just a good, solid round.  I'm pretty happy with it. 

 Q.  Must give you a little boost of momentum heading into tomorrow?  You feel pretty good about the way you feel at this course? 
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:  Yeah, I like this golf course.  I always thought it was a prettier golf course.  I like it a little better than English Turn.  I played all right at English Turn last year, so hopefully I'll keep it going. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT