MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You're pretty familiar with this position early on Masters week, how are you going to translate that into success  going all the way through?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: You know what, I wish I knew the answer to that or I would have done it a few years back. But I'm happy. As I say, you want to put yourself in position after the first round. You can't win the Tournament, I've proven that, after the first round and I just want to give myself a chance on Saturday and Sunday like I have in the past and I promise you I'll perform a little better this time around. I've learned a lot and I can't wait to get an opportunity and do it again.  
   
 Q. What kind of things do you feel like you have learned that you can apply to this year?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: You can't force anything on this golf course and on Sundays I think I tried to force a little bit too much and it backfires way too fast. I'm a strategic player, when I get in position I can attack. When I'm out of position, you can't. So you can't force it when you get out of position. Unfortunately, on Sundays it seems like I haven't been able to put myself into position to attack and I try to force it and in turn you shoot mid 70's and you end up not very good. So I think I learned from my mistakes and that's all I can ask for and I hope I get the opportunity again.   
   
 Q. How do you make sure you don't get ahead of yourself?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Oh, I mean I think that I've played enough of these and been somewhere near the lead in the last few years that ‑‑ I've never been ahead of myself, I think I just, I've just pushed myself a little bit too much. No, I just got to sit out there and relax and have fun.   
   
 Q. What did you do today right?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I did everything pretty good. I hit it in play for the most part. The two balls that sort of caught trees off the tee I made bogeys, which around here a bogey's not going to kill you. And I played the par‑5s 3‑under and that's sort of where it all was at.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT