SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2017
Charley Hoffman
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Charley, Kevin, I figured you guys were having such a great time out there in New York and the Presidents Cup, you had to get together here today.  Your thoughts on the golf course, Charley?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, everything's good.  The golf course is playing nice.  It's a tough golf course to hit the fairways, and you've got to hit the fairways to get close to the green.  Kevin was getting mad at me for yelling at his golf ball or talking to his golf ball.  I guess I got used to it from the Presidents Cup, but I stopped doing that.
Q. Kevin, he's played here so much.  He's a resident that lives just down the road.  You've played here just twice.  Do you follow the old man's lead?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: No, I just hit driver on every hole and hit it down there close to the green and tried to figure it out.  But he's got a lot of experience, and we were picking his brain a little bit.  Great to get out there and have a comfortable round of golf for both of us.  Not playing in a month, but it was nice to play with a friend.
Q. Has he given you some restaurants and spots to hit in the evening?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, he still hasn't invited me to his house yet.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: That's not true.  I invited you tomorrow night.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: You're right, I'm lying.  But, yeah, he and Ryan both being locals, both gave me some good spots to check out.
Q. Charley, you're donated your winnings this week to charity, and in memory of the folks that were impacted by the Vegas shootings.  Just your quick thoughts there?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, I called Adam Sperling after it happened, and we were trying to figure out a way we could help the victims after October 1st.  I put the phone down and thought about it, and two seconds later I called him back and said, hey, what do you think about this?  It was just a no-brainer.
It's a tough situation with the Shriners Hospital, obviously, they give me the platform.  They're a great organization, but we're also helping out the victims of the obviously, October 1st shootings.  So two great things we're helping out this week.  For the Shriners Hospital with my charity event on Monday, and obviously, the winnings I make this week will go to the victims.
Q. Charley, the wind picked up a little bit.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: In the morning it was a little chilly and some showers on the green.  Made a bunch of pars early and made a good eagle and a birdie on 15, 16, and gave one back on 17.  But a pretty solid round.  I gave myself the opportunities.  Didn't hit some wedge shots as close as I wanted to.  But all in all for my track record the last couple years on this golf course, I'm pretty happy with a 3-under opening round.  No question.
Q. What did you hit on the eagle?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I used driver.  It was a drivable 15.  I hit driver about six feet, and I was able to make the putt.  So that was nice to get the round going.
Q. How was that finish with a couple more shots when you're 1-under?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, that's huge.  That's a huge finish.  8th hole is a good golf hole, so you play those last two even or one under par, and to get two there was nice.  Obviously, where I was on 7, that would have been the one I was thinking I was going to birdie.  But, like I said, I'm happy with 3-under par.  I've got no qualms after a month off.  I felt pretty good really with everything.  Look forward to building on that in the next few days.
Q. How bad do you want to make this cut?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Well, the cut is different this year.  I want to play really well to raise some money.  So my focus is way higher here than it has been in the past, which is sort of saying where my mind was at this time of the year the last few years.  But I've always put a lot of effort into my charity event, which I do on Monday.  And sort of once that's done, I was free.  But this year, I've got a huge focus on trying to contend to win this golf tournament for the city of Las Vegas, and I know how much it means to them.
Q. When did you get those shoes done?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It was an idea through Footjoy.  I saw something on Instagram.  I know Bryce Harper did something with the same thing with the Nationals.  I saw it, and it came to my head, and I called Footjoy and I said do you think this could happen?  And they're like, I think we can push it through but there are no guarantees, because it was only a few week period.  I wasn't sure how busy it was.
And I don't know him, the guy that did it at all besides he did it.  Obviously, it's such a cool pair of shoes.  It's sort of outside my box, but it's definitely going to raise some money this week for the victims also.  That's where the donations are going to go.
Q. Are you going to auction them off?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, I'm going to auction them off after, I think, Monday morning after the tournament we do a -- you can go to my website.  My Instagram doesn't have it up yet.  But we're going to do it on ClickBid, and you can get the link through CharleyHoffman.com or my Facebook page.  We're going to raise some money.  This morning it was up to $1200, $1300 for the pair of shoes.  I expect to make a pretty penny.  Because I know how much I'm willing to pay for them.  I may be bidding on them later on in the week.  I think they're really cool, and it would be something cool to have on the trophy case for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT