RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2017
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You must have been happy with the iron play?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Got some good numbers.  Was able to capitalize on a bunch of mid-irons in the middle of the round which is nice.
Q. Aggressive play on 11.  Did you consider going out sideways to the fairway or were you confident you had enough it carry?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It was one of those shots where, yeah, I could have hit in the water but it was worth the risk, and if I hit the shot I was supposed to, it would end up on the green.  But that was definitely the hardest shot of the day for me.
Q. It's funny, you shoot 65, play very well, but a bunch of putts looked like they were going in.  Did you feel the same way?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, obviously always like to get one on 16.  Hit a great putt there after sort of being out of position.  Thought I was going to make it.
17, hit a great putt that lipped-out there.  It was a couple but obviously made a couple I didn't think I was going to make and happy with 7-under for sure.
Q. Nice round of golf, I guess on this course you can't afford to be conservative.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: When you look at the board before I even tee off, someone shoots 62, you know the birdies are out there.  Perfect day here in Toronto to make some birdies and have some fun in front of the fans here.
Q. What was working for you today?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: A little bit of everything.  I got off to a fairly slow start.  Obviously you want to get one early on 1 or 2 and wasn't able to and sort of capitalized in the middle of the round.  Hit some good iron shots and made some good putts.
Q. Did you feel it was close to mistake-free?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: 17 obviously with a wedge in your hand making bogey there is a little bit of a mistake.  Besides that, it played pretty good.
Q. When you see 10-under 62 before you tee off, does that motivate you or does it tell you something about the course?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Well, everybody on the PGA TOUR is really good.  But it's hard to win golf tournaments out here.  Guys just don't go backwards very often, so you have to keep making birdies, stay aggressive.  Especially the finish with the three par 5s, you have to get them.
Q. You've had a lot of top finishes here.  What would it mean to get that win here tomorrow?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: That's what I'm trying to do. Talked early in the week at the RBC outing, I'm close.  Only a few events left and hopefully I can get one to close it off.
Q. Steve Stricker is probably paying a lot of attention to you right now.  What would it mean to you to make that team?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, I know I'm going to have to play myself on.  I'm going to have to play good and get a win.  It's something I want to do before my career is done.  I'm going to earn it and I'm going to try, and if I don't, you'll know I went down swinging.
Q. Do you have a number in mind tomorrow?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: No, anything can happen in the last four or five holes.  Guys can make eagles, birdies, bogeys.  Anything can happen.  Obviously want to get off to a good start on the front nine and play the back nine the way I need to and see how it goes.
Q. Your irons were certainly good to you today, a lot of scoring opportunities?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, off to a little slower start than I wanted to.  Obviously wanted to get a birdie early in the round but wasn't able to.  Middle of my round got some birdies and hit some great iron shots.  You know what, all in all, just hit good shots and good positions to make putts on the greens.  Was able to capitalize and make a lot of birdies.
Q. This is your third straight week playing, playing all different kind of courses, consistently all season long and we're seeing you on the first page of the leaderboard.  How are you able to maintain that consistency?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: When you're playing good, I always say golf is fairly easy.  It's been a fun run the last month or two months, actually all year, and it's not very stressful, which is good. When you're trying to make cuts, that's when golf is hard.
It's been a good run.  Have my family out for the next five weeks.  They are off for summer break.  It's been fun to hang out and go over to Europe with them and Canada.  It's been a good, fun summer vacation.
Q. Sounds so easy when you talk about it, but when you're able to end a round on a high note with a birdie, how much does that affect the next round?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Oh, 100 percent.  Especially on a par 5, you want to get a birdie, have a chance to go overnight on the lead and get a little cushion.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT