TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2017
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Charley, a bogey-free round today.  How did you take advantage of things to put together a 66 on a Sunday?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, today was a pretty solid round.  I didn't put myself out of position a ton.  Gave myself some good birdie opportunities to make those.  I got the round started and holed a bunker shot, I think, around the 5th hole which sort of got it going.
Q. Short game all week, solid performance.  What was working out there on and around the greens?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: All year my stats in the short game have been bad.  So I've been focussing on that the last few months and it started to show this week.  Got the putter going nice, and it takes a little stress off chipping it close which is good.
Q. A top ten finish last week at Erin Hills for the U.S. Open, what, if anything, carried over to this week?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I had a lot of good momentum last week.  Played well, hit a lot of good shots just didn't make any putts last week.  This week I didn't hit a ton of good shots, and I made a bunch of putts.  So hopefully coming up toward the British Open I can sort of round both of them together and get a W.
Q. Big start?  Here with Charley Hoffman after a wonderful closing 66.  Charley, how proud are you of that finish given the fact you didn't finish as strong as you would have liked last night?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, last night was a little stumble.  Hit some good shots just didn't really commit.  And then obviously played the last three 4-over, and left a really bitter taste in my mouth.  Coming out today (inaudible).
Q. Everyone knows you as a ball striker and this is a Charley Hoffman kind of golf course.  But this week you got it done on the greens, inside the top three, putting, inside the top 10, back to front week for you?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, backwards week.  I changed my 60-degree wedge this week based on the conditions.  It worked great out of the bunkers.  I got them all up-and-down, made one of them.  I hit a ton of great up-and-downs the first couple days to keep the rounds going.  If I keep doing this, I feel like my chances are going up in the next few events.
Q. You're only a couple back at this stage.  You said you have a flight at 7:00 o'clock, are you going to go or hang around?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I've got a family trip planned, so I'm going to be on the plane here soon, and if something crazy happens, I'll come back around.
Q. The putt on 18, did you have an idea?  Were you looking at the lead he board?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, yeah, to be honest, I have given this tournament away with a two-shot lead with two to play four years ago.  So finishes -- a great finish you can make eagles and you can make doubles.  So I knew if I got to 11 I had an outside chance.  10, I don't like my chances with some of the guys out there.  But happy with the week, obviously disappointed with the finish yet yesterday, but nice to come back and shoot a bogey-free round today.
Q. You don't think anybody can drop back and meet you at 10?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I think somebody might drop back and meet me at 10, but I don't think it's going to be Jordan (laughing).
Q. Can we look at the last couple weeks and how well you've played, and what do you take out of that?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Two sort of opposite weeks.  Last week I hit it tee to green as good as I ever have, gave myself lots of opportunities but didn't make any putts.  This week tee to green was very average for me, got up-and-down and made a bunch of putts.  If I see that happening, that's really good for me because I know the ball striking will come.  I like where I'm at.  I've got a couple weeks off.  Going to sit on a couple nice weeks and look forward to a little three week stretch with the John Deere, British, and Canada.
Q. (Inaudible)?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, crowd's second to none this week.  I don't think I've ever dealt with traffic coming in here, and every single day it seemed like there was a lot of traffic and obviously a lot of support from the local fans here.  It's obviously an unbelievable field.  The best they've had in maybe ever, and it's nice to see the fans come out and support.
Q. You're not going to walk away from here saying what if, you'll focus on the positive?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: No, I played enough events and I've given enough away.  I've won enough to go I'm happy with what I did.  I'd obviously like to have committed to a couple shots yesterday a little more than I did.  I didn't do it.  It's going to happen again, but I'm going to learn from it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT