U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 18, 2017
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty loud roar on 18.  Can you talk about that a little bit?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, got completely hosed on my second shot and hit a shot up there.  I was sitting back on the fairway and 3-wood, I said I don't want to be long on that hole, not in a good spot.  And I hit a good shot in there and thought at worse it would roll in the bunker, and it got caught up and absolutely didn't have anything.
I was just trying to get it on the front of the green.  It came out a little faster, and I thought it went over to where I didn't want to be.  But I was able to make a shot off the edge of the green for 5.  I was looking at 7 in the face pretty fast, and it's nice to obviously birdie that last hole from the position I was in off the tee.
But after all is said and done, 5's not a bad score.
Q. Best finish at a U.S. Open, Charley, what is your takeaway?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, good.  Today I played unbelievable besides one hole.  I didn't really play that hole bad.  I just hit a couple bad little wedge shots and made 7 there.  I think the only green I missed was that hole and the 18th hole.  So I think I hit every green.
I mean, I gave myself opportunities all day long.  Didn't make as many putts as I'd like, but very happy with the way I composed myself after the 8th hole.  Could have let it go downhill pretty fast there, and I was able to hang on there and finish with a decent tournament.
Q. Brooks is doing it right now and he still has a few holes to play, 16-under par.  Your thoughts on what he's been able to do?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, it's out there.  It's been out there all week.  But you've got to hit good golf shots.  You have to keep it in the fairway.  Obviously he's keeping it on the fairway.  He's not playing from the rough.  I haven't seen any of his shots, but if you keep it in the fairway, you can hit low irons into the greens and the greens are receptive and you can make lots of birdies, which he is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT