VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 23, 2016
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you feel that you were able to play today?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I struggled and didn't hit it that well early and made some good pars, scrambled, gave myself some opportunities.  17 has my number unfortunately this week and hopefully I can get a birdie on that hole.  It's a pretty straightforward hole.  2-under par have a chance going into Sunday.
Q. You continue to be in this position here on this golf course.  Do you feel as if at some point this place owes you a little bit, that you have --
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Obviously I got the keys to playing pretty golf.  Hopefully, I play good tomorrow.  Obviously this golf course fits my eye and hopefully I get it done.  I've been knocking on the door for the last month and a half.  I want to get a win and take what comes along.
Q. Charley, overall a great day.  Maybe not the finish you wanted but let's start there on 18.  Is there ever any doubt of not going for it on your second shot?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: That pin is probably the one you don't go for.  You know what, I wanted to try to make something happen.  I knew if I hit it solid it would go to the front of the green, two putts like Patrick Reed.  Hit a good chip.
My caddy and I were on two different lines.  I ended up changing my line.  Happy the way I played.  Didn't hit it great early, made some great pars and then gave me a bunch of opportunities to come down the stretch and 2-under par is never going to hurt you.
Q. Certainly isn't.  Seemed like a really gutsy performance.  Plan for tomorrow, how are we feeling about Championship Sunday?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Turn the 75 to what I've been shooting into a 65.  Hopefully get a little bit of improvement.  My goal was to have a 7, 8 shot lead so I shoot 75 and still lead.  I'm going the try to shoot in the 60s.
Q. I can understand that now.  Good luck, congratulations on a great round.  Looking forward to tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT