SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2016
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Charley, pretty hot late yesterday afternoon.  Did you look at the weather to find out what the forecast was, because I was shocked when I woke up this morning?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I didn't see much rain.  I was in sort of shock it rained as much as it did this morning and then obviously a little delay this afternoon or in midmorning.
Q. Did it change anything?  Was the ball going a little shorter this morning than it was yesterday afternoon?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Little shorter and the driving areas aren't as big.  Some of those places you don't think are in play when it's blowing toward you.
Q. The ball striking wasn't much different.  You hit a lot of good shots and converted some good birdie putts.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I was telling Nick Skye the wind was blowing my ball.  Hit some good putts and lines.  Played the wind, didn't break and vice versa.  It's tough to putt in the wind.  It's actually harder to make the 10, 12-footers.
Q. It's tough when you got to factor wind into a putt.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Exactly.  I had a nice easy one on 17 straight downwind, which you know it's not going to blow too much on that one.
Q. Probably the golf course played as easy as it can play yesterday afternoon and probably as tough as it's going to play, because the forecast for the weekend is going to be nice.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: The staff did a nice job of moving some tees up.  You'll see some decent scores and hopefully get some on the weekend.
Q. Except for the last hole, how did the round go for you?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: The last hole is a tough hole.  Moved the tee up.  Still big water hazard to the left and wind blowing in off the right.  Didn't hit my best in the bunker, had a fairly straightforward bunker shot, caught a little heavy out there.  Gave myself a chance for par on 18.  With these conditions, if you have an inside 10 feet for par, you're doing a pretty good job.
Q. How windy is it out on the course?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It's pretty windy.  It's not unplayable.  Obviously there's been wind stoppage out here before.  It's not that level.  The greens are receptive and you'll see some guys shoot some fairly good scores I think out there today.
Q. Are you pretty pleased with how it went for you today?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, tee to green I did pretty well.  The putts just didn't fall like they did yesterday.  But not many days will be like they were yesterday.  I'm happy where I'm at at 10-under par, obviously.
Q. We talked yesterday about how the wind is the biggest defense on this golf course.  As you said, still very playable.  What are the challenges you face from one day to the next seeing the weather change as it did?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Well, it was 30 degrees cooler.  The ball is not going as far.  Those driving areas that are wide when there's no wind aren't that wide when the wind is blowing because you're starting it over hazards or not starting it over hazards.  It's a tough driving course when the crosswinds get 15, 20 miles an hour.  I hit good drives and attacked.  The ones I didn't, I was sort of playing for pars.
Q. 36 holes in, obviously there's more to change.  Where you sit right now, how are you feeling going into the weekend?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Anytime you're near the lead after 36 holes you're happy.  Still a lot of work left.  Still 36 holes of golf.  I like where I'm at.  Hopefully I'm on top, won't be too far behind if I'm not.
Q. Charley, yesterday you mentioned you've been in this spot where you really had a chance to go up and not down and these last two days on the weekends have been tough for you.  Just from a mental standpoint, do you try to get through this thing or how do you approach it, knowing that these things have happened?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Well, if you played golf long enough, it happens to everybody.  You're going to break out of it sooner or the later.  I feel confident with my golf game, and I always play good when putts are rolling in.  I'm doing a pretty good job of making putts, and hopefully I just hit good solid shots and have chance for birdies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT