SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 20, 2015
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your 11th Shriners.  Years go by fairly quick.  Just talk a little bit about being back again this year and what this tournament means to you.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, you know what, I was in college when Tiger won out here, so it's been a long time that I've been around this event, and it's a nice comeback.  It was one of my -- probably my first professional start right out of college.  The Founders back then ran the golf tournament before the Shriners, and they were nice enough to give me a sponsor invite.  So this is near and dear to my heart and obviously would love to play well.  I've had a few weeks off, fresh.  Game might be a little rusty, but hopefully by Thursday it's good.
Q. You've had three top 10 finishes here.  Struggled a little bit in the opening round last year.  Just comment a little bit about this golf course and how it sets up for you.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, it seems like looking back at the track record, I've finished close to top 10 or I don't have anything at all.  Hopefully I get those juices going and have a chance to win this golf tournament coming down Sunday.
Q. Outstanding year for you last year, winning at Mayakoba and winning finishing 10th at the FedExCup.  Just talk a little bit about your season as a whole.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, obviously talking about last year, got off to sort of a rusty start, missed a couple cuts early, then found something at Mayakoba and just sort of held on to it, and it was a nice run, played good all year.  Had a few chances to win, played decent in the Masters, and the sort of year you want to build on.  You don't want to take it for granted.  I know how hard it is to get in that TOUR Championship and play well, and hopefully I can continue that momentum into this year.
Q. Having said that, is that the goal this year, to get back to East Lake?  Just talk about your season and the goals.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, you know what, TOUR Championship, FedExCup is obviously always a goal, but ideally having a chance to play that Ryder Cup would be a great, great feat.  But obviously most of the guys on the Ryder Cup team are in East Lake, so they go hand in hand.
Q. Talk a little bit about this golf course specifically and what's important around this track.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: You know, throughout the years this course has changed a lot.  They've tightened up the driving ranges, moved some bunkers around, and the green complexes are about the same, but it's a tough driving golf course for me, so if I hit it in the fairway, I can be aggressive.  But the years I've struggled are probably the years I didn't hit it in the fairway.  The greens are probably a little softer this year because it rained earlier in the week.  I think you're going to see some low scores as you usually do.
Q. What would it mean to win here in Vegas for you?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It would be nice.  Obviously Kevin Na did it, Ryan Moore did it, I mean, got a couple local guys that have done it.  Obviously being a UNLV grad it would be awesome to be there on Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT