CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 23, 2015
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Charlie, tell me your thought process on 18 and that putt you had to post 10-under.   Did you ever think that that may be to get into a playoff depending on what happens here?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   No, I mean, I think we'll play probably into Tuesday if need be.   We're playing in 45 miles of wind next week, so that never even crossed my mind to be honest with you.

Q.   Really solid round of golf for you, I think you're putting the ball well.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, everything's good.   Today I didn't hit it quite as well as I did the first two days.   Hit it really good the first two days and didn't make much.   Today I probably couldn't have shot much lower than I did.   Happy with where I ended up.

Q.   This isn't just a one-week occurrence for you.   You've been really striking it well for several months now.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, everything feels in synch and it's been nice to be up close on the leaderboard and hopefully I'll finish one off tomorrow.

Q.   Good round today, 9-under par.   What was working for you?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   You know, I didn't drive it as well as I did the first two days so I was sort of playing behind the eight ball, but the holes I did get it in the fairway I made a few birdies and was able to salvage the pars when I got out of position.   So all in all I probably couldn't have shot much lower than I did today.

Q.   How have you been handling the conditions?   It's been a completely different Colonial from what you guys are used to in years past.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, you've got to take some different lines, the runouts are different.   You've got to be a little more conservative because the ball's just not chasing like it usually is.   More middle irons into the greens instead of wedges, that's probably why you're not seeing the scores as low as they usually are.

Q.   What's the mindset that you carry over to tomorrow?   Do you look at a number?   How do you factor it in?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Hopefully I'm in the final group and I'll sort of know where I stand all day long.   So I'm just going to go out there and try to have a chance on the back nine.   You've got to put the ball in the fairway out here.   This year the rough's up.   If you're out of position, it hard to get the ball on the green even though the greens are soft.   If you get the ball in play off the tee, you're going to make some birdies.   You'll have middle irons and wedges into the greens, and the greens surfaces are perfect so you can make a bunch of birdies out there but you've still got to get it in play.

Q.   Looking ahead to tomorrow, are you expecting maybe somebody's going to get that low number?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Oh, yeah you think that all week but no one's done it.   It's always hard to win golf tournaments, and you might see someone come from a little bit behind, but I think if you shoot a few under par you're going to have a chance.

Q.   What goes through your preparations when you have an early time today and an early time tomorrow?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I'm probably going to go take a nap this afternoon, to be honest with you.   Not much different.   We have early tee times all week long.   I think it's actually a little easier having an early tee time on Sunday than like at the Masters I didn't tee off until 3:00, second-to-last group, and what do you with all your time?   That's harder than getting up early.

Q.   How did the course play with this weather?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   It's a good golf course.   The wind was blowing a little bit and the conditions are soft.   Still got to hit good golf shots.   If you hit good ones, they usually end up close to the hole, but obviously the course is holding its own.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT