CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 22, 2015
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   69 compared to yesterday.   What was the difference today from yesterday?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Well, we had a little bit of rain, mist all day long.   Course played a little bit longer.   I actually hit a bunch of good shots yesterday, had a bunch of opportunities for birdies.   Today just didn't hit it quite as close as I did yesterday and in turn I didn't make as many putts, so I shot a little higher.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe the conditions when you came out this morning, because I mean the rain was coming down.   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah.   It was never heavy, but umbrella on and off, rain gear on and off.   At least it wasn't too windy, but the course is playing long.   You're not getting any roll, and some of the holes are into the breeze.   But the greens are pretty soft, so you can save yourself if you get out of position.  
I don't see anyone going real low, but no one, I don't think, is shooting too high either.  
   
 Q.   Is the course holding up pretty good because more and more rain is coming down?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah.   As of right this second, single digits is leading this golf tournament, so I think Colonial is holding its own.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow there's a possibility you guys could go off early because they're expecting some heavy rain in the afternoons.   As a player, you're used to this, aren't you?   You just have to be patient, kind of wait it out?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Oh, yeah.   It's part of the game.   Obviously if they see weather, it's good that they're going to try to get us done earlier than the weather, unfortunate for the fans out here in Fort Worth, but just trying to get this tournament in.  
   
 Q.   You still enjoying it despite the rain?   You're playing pretty good?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah.   Near the leaderboard.   I'm sort of touching.   Not up there, but all I want is a chance on Sunday coming down the Back 9.   
   
 Q.   Good luck.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT