THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 20, 2020
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Charley, is that sort of your hockey playoff beard?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   That's all I've got right here.
 Q. 6-under 65, how do you feel about your round?  How did it go out there?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Good, I got off to a great start.  I was 4-under after 5 and looking to do something really special.  Slowed down a little bit, hit some good shots that didn't turn out, and you know what, anytime you shoot 6-under par at TPC Boston you're happy.  I'm excited to get a few more rounds and have a chance at coming in on the weekend.
 Q. What's the difference between the front -- starting on the front nine and starting on the back nine as far as difficulty level?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, you know what, obviously the first hole you want to make it a birdie hole, and I mean, it's an iron -- somewhat of a wedge into the green, then the second hole is one of the better par-5s in all of golf.  It's a great risk-reward hole.  If you bite off the corner, you've got a chance to go for the green in two but you've got a lot of penalty around it, a lot of water, and then the next hole is a great par-3 and then obviously the 4th is a drivable par-4 that you want to get a birdie on.  You obviously want to get off to a fast start.
 And then the back nine, I started on that nine, it's obviously a little bit different.  10th is a tough hole; 11th is a tough hole; 12th is a tough hole; 13 is a tough hole; 14 is a tough hole.  You want to just sort of maintain when you start on the back.
 Yeah, you definitely want to get them early if you start on the front nine.
 Q. When you've come back to a place where you've won before, how much little extra confidence does it give you, and considering if you're not -- if you haven't been playing well, how much can it give you a little bit of a boost?
 CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, you know what, Gil Hanse has done a few tweaks since I've won here 10 years ago, but it's still a golf course I obviously love to come back to and play.  I haven't had a ton of success as of late out here, but I started flying the ball a little bit further which takes some of these bunkers out of play, which is a nice combination.  I flew some bunkers I haven't flown in past years and it makes some of those holes into birdie holes.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT