THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2015
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Tell us about your day.  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Got off to great start, birdied hole 10 and then 10. 11, hit the green on 11 in two and was able to 2-putt.  And hit a great shot in there on 11. And hit a good shot on 12. And was able to birdie my first three holes, which is -- no matter where you're playing, a heck of an achievement. Sort of kept it going from there.  Made a birdie on -- hit the green in two on 16. And then birdied 17.  Hit a good wedge shot in. And I made a nice par on 18. And then sort of had a struggle on 1.  Just got out of position off the tee, hit a tree, hit it over the green, left it short, hit it back over the green, sort of a fiasco there on 1. But I was able to bounce back with a birdie on 2 and 4 and sort of kept it steady. And was able to make a nice 4 on 9. And had a good round of 4-under.   Q.  It's never the goal to have the lowest round with triple bogey in THE PLAYERS, but you did do that.  You have to be really proud of the way you held yourself together after that.  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, I've made enough triple bogeys in my life, I'm not going to let it ruin my day too much.  And I'm probably going to make a few more in my lifetime. It's one of those things, first round of the tournament, sort of took it with a grain of salt, knew there was plenty of birdies out there and was able to achieve a few more.   Q.  We have been watching you play great for over a month.  When do you think it started?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I've been gaining a lot of confidence.  Had a bunch of events in the fall, was able to win Mayakoba.  Our family loves Mexico and that really jump-started me with a lot of confidence and was able to sort of start free-wheeling it here. Started off the calendar year with a nice second at Humana.  It's been a fun ride. Obviously had a chance at the Masters.  Jordan's putter got hot, mine got chilly on Sunday, but it was still a fun experience, and been playing pretty good golf since.   Q.  How much is your patience tested out here as to when to hit the gas and play conservative?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It always is.  You're sort of always on edge on this golf course.  You're one swing from being in the water or being in trees, so, yeah, there's no really free and easy shots out here. It's sort of compared a little bit to the Masters; you always want to be in a certain position on the greens and certain position in the fairways where you can attack. But you got to get the par-5s, which I was able to do.  I birdied all the par-5s today which I think is a key to playing good golf out here.   Q.  When the wind is up, does makes it harder?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, always.  It's pretty consistent.  At least it wasn't gusting too much, so you could read which direction it was coming from and was able to hit good solid shots and make a few putts.   Q.  Getting those three shots back on the front nine gives you confidence.  How do you feel like you read the course to get those three shots back?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: To be honest with you, from there on out you're trying to hit good golf shots again, which I did on the back nine, my front nine, give your self an opportunity to make a couple more birdies, you never know on this golf course where they're going to come. Hit some good tee shots and some good wedge shots and was able to make a few putts and obviously very happy to finish with a 5-under 67.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT