MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2015
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was today's experience like?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I felt good all day.   I hit the ball good and gave myself a lot of chances.   Speed of the putts, I never had it down.   So, fortunately, I had a lot of good opportunities out there and didn't make any of them, really, and so all in all pretty happy with 1‑under.   But for my emotions and everything like that, it felt great.  
   
 Q.   Talk about tomorrow.   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I'm just going to try to keep doing what I'm doing.   Hopefully a few putts drop in and I can put a little pressure on the guys up top.  
   
 Q.   I know you used to play baseball before you committed to golf full‑time.   What were you better at?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I think I was always better at golf.   Golf always drove me.   It was a little more challenging and that's what kept me going.  
   
 Q.   What's this whole week been like with your family here and enjoying it with them, what's it been like being with them?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   It's good.   My family, my kids and my wife travel with me every week, so that's the norm.   And then my parents and my wife's parents are here supporting me, which is nice.   It's always good to have a lot of support.   
   
 Q.   I know you wanted to try and keep pace with Jordan.   What was his play like and what did you see as far as ‑‑  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Obviously I was playing attention to what I was doing.   Jordan hit some, hit it right where he needed to be, he played great.   Pretty much the only bobble was the 17th hole.   
But he made a few putts.   I mean, I gave myself a lot of opportunities, just didn't convert, unfortunately.   And I wouldn't do anything different.   If I keep doing that and the putts go in, I think I have a chance tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   I know you hit them good, like at 16.   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, 16 I hit where I wanted.   I struggled with speed a little bit today.   I don't know if it was just later in the day and the greens were a touch slower because they had grown a little bit, I don't know.   But I'm going to go out and practice now and try to get them down for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You're going back out?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Grind away.   Not tired?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   No, this is what I do for a living.   This isn't too bad.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT