THE 148TH OPEN
July 18, 2019
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about the course.  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: It's a hard golf course.  I played it in three different winds for the most part and three different conditions.  So it's a hard golf course, it doesn't matter which way the wind blows, and you have to keep it in play.   
The front nine I kept the ball in the fairway and I was able to hit some good shots, take advantage of some opportunities.  Those last three holes coming in are the hardest stretch of three holes that you can imagine with the breeze into you.   
It's a tough test of golf.  You can make birdies out there from the fairway, but it's still very hard.   
 Q.  Talk about the first tee.  How many people were there at 6:45 in the morning?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I don't take many photos on the golf course usually.  I took a photo of the line of people trying to get into the grandstands at 6:20 this morning.  The fairway is nearly lined and obviously the grandstands were full.   
I teed off one year at the Masters behind Jack, Gary, and Arnold.  And that was a cool tee shot to hit after.  But this one I think topped it.  Just the amount of respect that everybody has for Darren here, obviously him growing up here, and I was just happy to be a part of it.   
When I saw the tee time, you don't have to get up and watch it, I'm actually going to be a part of it.  And Darren played fantastic golf and he carried that energy to the fans and the people around here throughout the round.  And I expect good things from him the rest of the week.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I think he was off game.  I think obviously he fed off that energy of the patrons and the spectators.  He played some amazing golf.  Comes out and birdies the first hole.  And played very, very solid.   
Obviously we made a couple of bogeys coming in.  But that's to be expected out here.  And I didn't see any nerves, if any, from him, at all.  And just positive things.   
 Q.  Did he give you any tips out there about the course?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: No, the only tips he gave me is the way he hit the driver down the fairway every time.  I just tried to follow his tee ball.  He's obviously a great driver of the golf ball and played well.  He played brilliantly.   
 Q.  Can you assess what this means to the Portrush area?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, I mean, obviously the community rallied around this championship.  And I think that's every town it goes to.  This seems more special, this not being here.  It's fun to be a part of it and it's one of the most beautiful, fantastic golf courses I've ever stepped foot on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT