HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 10, 2015
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Yesterday solid, and today, what a run you had?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, hit it solid yesterday.   Just didn't get any balls to go in the hole.   Today got it going a little closer to the hole, got a nice little run, got five in a row.   Could have been more and then unfortunate little mishap on 17 put a bad swing on it.   But guess what, going to make a lot better swings now.

Q.   What was the deal, 224 is what we had for you.   Were you trying to ride the wind with a 6‑iron? 
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, just tried to play a draw 6‑iron, obviously extreme downhill lie and just got over it a little bit, made sure I caught the ball first, pulled it, bad bounce in the hazard and left a 12‑footer short in the jaws and double‑bogey.
Happy with the way I played and if I keep doing that, I'm going to be right in contention coming in on Monday. 

Q.   17 holes, just one hiccup on your scorecard.   What do you take away from this day?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   It was good.   Obviously second round of the year, just trying to get my feet wet.   Made a bunch of birdies, hit a lot of good shots, and one unfortunate swing, you can get away with a few bad swings out here but not on the 17th hole. 

Q.   On 10 momentum, starts to build. 
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, trying to hit towards the center of the green.   I knew it would funnel down to the left if I hit that ridge and luckily enough, it did everything I wanted it to do.

Q.   Made birdie there and tee shot on the par311, this had to look good?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, little cut 8‑iron up against the wind, just trying to get down there in the little hollow and you'll see when it landed, I thought I made it, I don't know how close it came but I thought I had a new car in my hand. 

Q.   On 12, after back‑to‑back birdies, you're at it again. 
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah just trying to stay a little underneath the hole, it landed about four yards short, let it release a couple and hopefully that's about what it did. 

Q.   Your putter was really strong today, showed on 13?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, I got out there, sort of rode the hill and was lucky enough to find the ball in the cup and keep my run going. 

Q.   Birdie on 15. 
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, not very good wedge shot and then I got lucky to get it up there in the hole and right in the center. 

Q.   16?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   A little skinny, was lucky enough that didn't fly too far and got a way with a little pull and skinny shot there. 

Q.   From 9 to 16, you made seven birdies in 8 holes, but on 17 what happened?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Just got over it.   Was trying to hit a little 6‑iron in there and ride the wind, and just got over the top of it and rode it a little too much, bad swing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT