DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2014
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Does the course have any kind of reputation as far as what you need to do well here to succeed?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Do you know the answer or do you want me to -- no, I think it's pretty -- I mean it's noted by the winners and everything, you've got to be able to hit it pretty far out here.  It's a big golf course.  The fairways are big.  The cross bunkers, if you hit it longer, you can carry them.  This is a big hitter's golf course.  Big advantage. Is that right or wrong?  That's not for me to make that decision.  But it's definitely the guy that hits it a little longer has a little advantage on this golf course.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: They liked to change it every year before.  But the last few years they've kept this golf course pretty close to the same. You know, you learn where you need to be caressive.  If you're in position out here, you can be aggressive.  But you can get out of position pretty quick, and then you have to get back into position, just like any other golf course. But I wouldn't say there's a big learning curve on this golf course.  But it's a golf course you can just -- everybody knows you're going to have to go out and make birdies.  You've got to get to 20-something under.  And there's guys shooting 60, 61, 62, every year out here.  You know you need to get birdies out here.  If you get off to a slow start, you know you've got a chance to make some birdies, pretty much in every round.   Q.  Is it also the case where in the final round, as long as you're somewhere near the leaderboard at the top, you can still win?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: You can.  You can shoot nothing out here, the greens are usually perfect.  That's one thing.  And they're not too undulating, so you have a lot of putts that just break a little bit.  So that's nice.  You don't have big, undulating greens. So like I said, you can make birdies out here.  The par 5s, most of them are reachable.  And then have you've got drivable par-4s.  So you've got a lot of birdie opportunities on this golf course.  Granted, there's a lot of long holes on this golf course, but there's a lot of birdie opportunities.   Q.  Do you need to kind of push the pace to be near the top of the leaderboard?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I think there's two ways to look at it.  If you get off to a slow start and make a bogey somewhere, you know you have a ton of other holes to make birdie.  I think it's not real important to get off to a great start.  I think if you get off to a real bad start on a harder golf course, it's a little more discouraging, because you know there's not that many birdie opportunities.  But birdies usually lead to birdies, in my case, to get a bit of momentum. It's nice to get off to a good start.  But you know you can -- if you're around for four rounds, you're going to have a good, hot round somewhere in there.   Q.  Are you the kind of guy that no matter what your performance is like recently, to come back to a place you've won, does that give you any kind of a boost?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yes, because you've got great visuals.  I remember having good shots coming down the stretch.  And that definitely helps you.  This course, for sure. You look at where Tiger has won his whole career, there's a lot of repeats in those events.  And so on and so forth for everybody else on the PGA Tour.  I think there's golf courses that fit their eyes, and this golf course fits my eye.   Q.  Do you come here expecting to play well?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, I'm expecting to have a good week.  If I didn't have a good week I'd be pretty disappointed.  I feel good.  The practice rounds I've played the last couple of days have been great.  My game is in a good spot.  It's nice you don't have to -- we've played here for so long, practice rounds aren't stressful.  You're sort of out there playing, you're not trying to learn the golf course.  I definitely have the expectation to play well this week.   Q.  33rd in FedExCup.  Really solid year for you.  A couple of big weeks coming up for you?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, the main goal is to get to The TOUR Championship.  The TOUR Championship gets you in all the majors.  I'm not in the majors as of this point.  So it's a big -- I think this is my big week.  I haven't had a ton of success in the altitude.  So this is my week.  Hopefully I jump up those rankings, so I can secure that Tour championship.   Q.  When you were in the final round when you won here, were you more in the zone that day than ever?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I wouldn't say the zone.  I got the good breaks.  I made some good birdies coming around the turn.  I birdied 10 and 11, which were -- 11 sort of out of nowhere.  And then holed a bunker shot on 13.  And next thing you know I hit a funky shot on 14, and was able to hit off the path and got up and down.  And then I made a couple of good birdies coming down the stretch.  My bad shots I got away with, made a birdie and a par with.  And sometimes a bad shot goes in the trees and I have to pitch out and I make bogey or double.  I've always said when you win you get a few good breaks.  And that week I got a few good breaks where I needed to get them and I was able to close the door.   Q.  Do you remember every single shot of that round?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I could probably tell you every shot of every round I've played here.   Q.  Here?  CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, for anywhere for the most part.  You get on the hole and I can tell you the majority of the spots where I've hit it throughout the years.  I think that's what a true golfer is, you know where you want to be and you don't want to be.  That's why guys on the Tour for a longer time have the advantage over a rookie, because you sort of know the nuances of the golf course.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT