NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 13, 2014
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Perfect scoring conditions? 
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   You know, it was nice.   The greens were sort of firm but they weren't too bad this morning and they were rolling pretty good early in the morning and not too breezy so it was obviously an opportunity to get some birdies but obviously 5‑under is leading. 

Q.   Kind of a pedestrian front nine, even par but then you went crazy on the back?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, knocked a few close.   Knocked 11 on in two and 2‑putted and knocked it close on 12 and sort of cruised in from there and made a couple good birdie putts and happy with the way I finished for sure.

Q.   Have you historically played well here?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Very average.   I think I've made the cut the majority of the years, but I haven't really lit anything up but I've always liked this golf course and hopefully I can put four good rounds together this week. 

Q.   When you shoot as well as you did on the back nine‑‑
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, I played good, made the birdies I needed to make and had opportunities on all the holes.   It's nice to hit the fairways and greens and take the stress out of this golf course and hopefully I can keep that going into tomorrow.

Q.   As a San Diego guy, do you like when it's this dry or this hot? 
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, I like it a little firmer and faster is my strength.   San Diego this year was firmer and faster and I played pretty good and last week was soft and mushy and I didn't play well.   I like the firm and fast conditions for sure.

Q.   You know traffic can be crazy, do you stay close to avoid the 405 nightmare?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, I'm lucky, I have a family I've stayed with since my second year on TOUR in Santa Monica, ten minutes away.   Stress level is very low for me driving around.

Q.   Is it stress relief to go get a hug from daddy's little girl right there?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah, it's always fun to see her and fun to see a smile on her face.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT