TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2013
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   We'll go ahead and get started.   We'd like to welcome Charley Hoffman after a 4‑under 66 in Round 3 of the Travelers Championship.   Charley, you certainly raised the bar early on Thursday.   Just some comments on your 66 today.   Obviously you're right back in the thick of things heading into the final round tomorrow. 
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah.   Obviously would like to be a little more than 10‑under after starting with 9‑under.   But all in all after yesterday got off to a quick start, birdied 1, 4 and 6, something like that.   So got off to a pretty quick start, and then birdied 10, thought I was going to get going again, and then a little three‑putt bogey on 12 sort of slowed things down. 
Hit some good shots coming down the stretch and just didn't happen to get any putts to go in the hole, but pretty happy with everything.   Hopefully I have a chance with a few to play tomorrow like I did last year.
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   With that we'll open it up for questions. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah.   I played a lot of good golf and then I've had some disappointing Sundays.   The last couple Sundays have been pretty disappointing.   Memorial wasn't very good, and then obviously last week at the U. S. Open pretty disappointing. 
Both those weeks it was one of those things, I felt like I played good, just some bad breaks as easy as it sounds.   Get the round going in the wrong direction, don't get the key putts to go in the hole, and next thing you know on the PGA TOUR you're 7, 8‑over par. 
But happy with putting myself in position.   I like to consider myself a closer.   I haven't closed a golf tournament in a while, though.   And hopefully if you give yourself enough chances, you'll be able to close the door pretty soon.

Q.   You talk about closing.   How important will it be to put those thoughts on last year out of your mind to be able to close tomorrow if possible?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Oh, I mean I'll just try to take one shot at a time.   This golf course is hard.   You can make a lot of birdies out here, but like I demonstrated yesterday, you can make doubles pretty quick and bogeys also.   So I'm just going to try to put the ball in position off the tee like I have been, give myself opportunities.   I mean I drove it well early and gave myself a bunch of opportunities with wedges into the greens today, and hopefully I'll have that opportunity tomorrow.   You get out of position here, you can make some bogeys.
Obviously if I get on 17 tee, I'd be lying to say I'm not going to think about that tee shot, but I'm a much more mature, better player than I was a year ago and don't feel uncomfortable on that tee shot, and guess what, I'm going to envision the same tee shot I've hit the last three days.   And hopefully I pull it off.   If I don't, I don't and if I do, I do.

Q.   Obviously it's a benefit to have a short memory.   You talk about struggling a little bit on Sundays.   How long did it take you last year, if at all, to get over Sunday?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I was all right.   Like I said, I committed to my golf shot and I didn't hit it and I hit a bad shot.   My miss usually is to the right, and I happened to miss it to the right on a hole that you can't miss it to the right on.   Could have done it pretty much on any other hole on this golf course, and ended up making double there. 
And I mean I think about it, but obviously I think about a lot of other things ‑‑ I mean I like being in the position to win, so it's good to have those things go through your mind, but you wash it out and just focus on that spot where you want to hit it and go from there.

Q.   I know you said outside that the tooth is fine, but you had to get it rebonded a second time, on Friday?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah.   Thursday after the round a buddy of mine I played a pro am with probably four or five years ago, we've become pretty good friends, he's a dentist, his office down the street that his ex‑wife runs wasn't open any longer, so he gave me some quick glue stuff that worked until I bit into something at dinner, and it fell off again. 
And then yesterday afternoon obviously I had plenty of time teeing off at 6:50, got it rebonded and professionally done, and it's good to go for at least a few more weeks.   Problem is I've been playing a lot of golf.   I haven't been home.   It happened originally at The PLAYERS Championship, and I just haven't been home.   It takes a couple of weeks to get one ordered and do all that stuff.   Both times it's fallen off it's been biting into a piece of bacon, so I guess I should stay away from the bacon.
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Anyone else?   Okay.   Charley, we appreciate your time today.   Best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT