TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2013
Charley Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Charley, double bogey early on.   How did you think you were able to recover from it?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Yeah.   It was pretty sloppy.   I thought I could get it over the water.   Actually hit it right where I aimed, hit it in the water and probably should have been able to make a par or bogey after that.   Made 7.   Just never really got it going.   And obviously that was the start of it.  
   
 Q.   What wasn't really working today that was working yesterday?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I didn't hit it as close and then I didn't make any putts.   I didn't make any putts today.   I played the par‑5s 3‑over.   So you go from playing the par‑5s 3‑over from 3‑under.   Pretty big leap there.  
   
 Q.   With all that happened yesterday, I think there are some incredible number of golfers who played the back nine well under par and so forth, any ‑‑ I won't say letdown, but comfort level that was established yesterday maybe that might affect some guys negatively today in terms of how you were scoring?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   No.   That back nine is great, actually.   It's one of the best back nines we play all year just because you can make eagle on it.   You can make eagles and make doubles pretty quick, and I happened to be on the other side of it today.   But the eagles and birdies are still out there.   There's no question.   I think guys are going to shoot low today.  
This golf course can get you pretty fast.   The greens I missed I didn't get up‑and‑down and didn't make any of my birdie putts, so just played a pretty crummy round.  
   
 Q.   Charley, 3‑over, but you're still very much in contention.   How do you feel confidence‑wise going into the weekend?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   I feel fine.   I didn't play that much different.   I just didn't make anything and just didn't get the ball up‑and‑down where I needed to get the ball up‑and‑down.   All in all, shooting 3‑over and still being 6‑under I'm fairly happy about that.  
   
 Q.   Guys have come from pretty far back here the last couple of years.   Leishman last year.   Does that give you hope that this is just a minor hiccup?   There's still certainly a lot of golf left.   
CHARLEY HOFFMAN:   Oh, there's tons of golf left.   First of all, Hunter has gotta go out this afternoon.   I'm assuming he's going to play halfway decent.   But I mean it's pretty much sort of in his hands, sort of like it was in my hands.   If I could go out and shoot 5 or 6‑under par today, I'm going to have a fairly decent lead.   If he does the same thing, he's going to have a pretty big lead this afternoon.  
So we'll just see.   Obviously guys every year shoot a pretty low number around here.   Hopefully I can get another one.   I shot one on Thursday.   I hopefully got rid of my back round and I can go get 'em this weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT