MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 1999
Lou Broch
Alfonso Soriano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you tell us how you think this is going to help some of the ball players out
there having this kind of experience?
 
 LOU BROCH: I actually believe that the experience today certainly will enhance their
chances to get to the Big Leagues. They now know that you can play before big crowds and
at the same time they have to deal with and put in their repertoire their ability to deal
with the media. I thought that was intriguing. 
 
Q. Alfonso, how does this rate in terms of your career achievements, how special is
this?
 
 ALFONSO SORIANO: You can't imagine what it means to me in terms of my career, and
especially to my mother. Everything I do in baseball is dedicated to my mother back in the
Dominican Republic. 
 
Q. You said you wanted to dedicate your performance to your mother before the game, how
proud do you think she is of you?
 
 ALFONSO SORIANO: I think now she must be the happiest woman in the world, because
thanks to God I had everything worked out great in the game.  
 
Q. You think you made a name for yourself or maybe some people who weren't familiar
with a lot of the Minor League players, do you think you made a name for yourself?
 
 ALFONSO SORIANO: I don't know. I think probably, yeah. 
 
Q. Being a prospect with the New York Yankees Organization, was it special hitting a
home run in the Red Sox ballpark?
 
 ALFONSO SORIANO: I feel very happy about it. 
 
Q. You mentioned the Yankees, they want to switch you to second base, is that something
you're comfortable with or would you rather play shortstop?
 
 ALFONSO SORIANO: Just as everybody knows, playing with the Yankees, since Derek Jeter
is there, it may be possible they move me to second base. 
 
Q. What were you thinking as you were running around the bases both times, I guess?
 
 ALFONSO SORIANO: I was thinking about my mother, and how happy she must be back there
in the Dominican Republic. 
 
Q. You gave your teammate, Johnson, a little smile, were you a little embarrassed to be
competing in this game?
 
 ALFONSO SORIANO: I was a little embarrassed but I think that Nick and a lot of other
teammates felt good that he played well today. 
 
Q. Can you talk to us a little bit about what pitches you hit for the homeruns?
 
 ALFONSO SORIANO: First one was a letter-high fastball, the second one was a change-up,
a little bit on the outside corner. 
 
Q. Lou, what are your impressions of Alfonso?
 
 LOU BROCH: I thought he was their secret weapon today. He hit Mulder pitching the first
home run, good sinker ball pitcher, and I'm sure they faced each other before, but he
never saw a sinker ball up around the chest, and so he punished him for getting the sinker
ball up. And I thought Mulder was a bit strong. Generally I'm told he had a great sinker
ball, and today, because of his excitement, I thought his pitching was quite high, so he
paid the price for being excited. 
 
Q. Lou, how do you assess the future stars as compared to the present stars and maybe
even as to the past stars?
 
 LOU BROCH: How do I what? 
 
Q. Assess maybe differences in style that the future stars may have as opposed to the
All-Stars and present stars?
 
 LOU BROCH: Style, as far as I'm concerned is the type of a walk through baseball, walk
through life. You stand to run, hit and catch and throw the ball, that becomes the common
denominator, how they do it becomes their style or walk. Certainly one of the biggest
contributor to creating your own so-called walk in the game which perhaps you've seen is a
thing called television, and everybody wanting to be your in your face, so you had to
create your own type walk. I thought today none of the players really showed anything that
could be considered a strange walk in the game. Our guys were rooting and they were
excited. They played a brand of baseball that you perhaps see in days gone by, as well as
Big League ball, everything was executed well. 
 
Q. Alfonso, do you feel -- Lou had made reference to it, do you feel today as if you
were a Big Leaguer out there, did you get a taste of what the Big Leagues were about?
 
 ALFONSO SORIANO: Every time I walk out onto the field I feel that I can be the best one
in the game and that I can be a superstar. 
 
Q. How tough is it for these kids to be subjected to this kind of exposure with the
All-Star Game going on, and who else stood out in your mind besides Alfonso?
 
 LOU BROCH: I think the fact is that you saw a change of pace than what they were
accustomed to, simply because in the Minor Leagues I don't think you get large crowds, and
only in certain stadiums. But if you play before two or three thousand people at night
there are one or two members of the press that follow you around. You wake up the next day
and there are 400,000 members of the media and you have the huge crowd and the history of
Fenway Park, and all of the legends who are associated with this particular event. I think
it's overwhelming. And I think their safe territory is on the field. Once they reach the
field, they're relaxed. 
 
Q. You played here in the '67 World Series. What did you think about going into the
series?
 
 LOU BROCH: I had to look at it from a fan's point of view, Fanfest, Fenway Park was
dressed up, it was a highlight of baseball and was one of those shining moments in the
game. And Fenway Park somehow you look and see the history and the ghosts of the past
still exist on the field. I'm sure if he could tell you that, he would tell you that he
was standing at the same plate that Ted Williams stood at or Babe Ruth, and that's the
excitement. And so those are the emotions that you hold in, but at the same time you try
not to express them in the outward way, but they are there. 
 
Q. Alfonso, you got a taste of what it's like to have the Green Monster there as a
hitter's friend, are you looking forward to some day soon being able to visit here as a
Yankee?
 
 ALFONSO SORIANO: I hope I can come here. I'd like to play with the Yankees, wherever. 
 
Q. Any other players stand out in your mind today?
 
 LOU BROCH: There were quite a few, particularly how they were comfortable at the plate.
I saw some good swings, you had some Minor League ball players who knew what they were
doing, how to handle a bat, very few were fooled by the pitch. The last pitcher they had,
other than Alfonso, who I called him the secret weapon they had today, we only had stats
to look at and sometimes you don't believe the statistics. The person shows up and he
proves those statistics to be true. But for the most part I think the last relief pitcher
was very impressive. I thought he had what we call "high heat", and we had a
couple of kids who really threw the ball well, here. I thought pitching would dominate the
game, it did, for the rest of the players. But for the most part they should be proud of
themselves the way they performed. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT