ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2019
Trey Mullinax
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Trying to figure out where this partnership came in.  It looks like you both liked to CrossFit working out, but you guys started talking about this team last year.  Why?
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, we play a lot of practice rounds together.  We've known each other for a few years.  Just kind of we played so much together it just kind of made sense.  We know each other's games pretty well.
I don't know if it's working out...
TREY MULLINAX: Yeah, been working out.
SCOTT STALLINGS: We worked out this morning.  He went with me.
TREY MULLINAX: I'm a great foam roller guy.  I'm really good at it.  (Laughter.)  I can sit there and I can encourage him.
Q. Well clearly something is working between you, 21-under par in this format.  Alternate shot you guys are going to have to get it going tomorrow.  What did you learn from the first 18 holes that you can apply to tomorrow?
SCOTT STALLINGS: A lot of it was trying to catch a rhythm.  We never do it, and so getting an opportunity to kind of understand, but ours was broken up.  We only played nine holes and we got a chance to go do it again.
We were doing really good and then we kind of halted.  Birdied our last hole yesterday and were kind of catching a little bit of momentum and the horn blew.  Nice to kind of get a full 18 and see what we can do.  Been fun the last few days.
Q. Does this ease the pressure a little bit?
TREY MULLINAX: Yeah, for sure.  He's playing great golf and taking a lot of pressure off me.  I know I don't have to play perfect.  We're putting well; we're making smart decisions.
For me, I feel pretty good over the ball right now.  I know if I mess out he'll be able to bail me out.
Q. Congratulations.  Good playing.  You got off to a fast start with a birdie and the eagle.  Got you in a good stead, didn't it?
TREY MULLINAX: Yeah, coming out of the gates hot was nice.  Hit a good wedge shot on the first and hit a really nice shot out of the bunker there.  Hit right into the hill and bounced up just like we wanted to.
Yeah, Scott got his putter hot on some of those holes there and made some nice putts where I could just pick mine up.  We kept calling it room service.  I told him if he'd make it, I would get out of the hole and call it room service.
It was a lot fun today.  We had a really good time.  We were laughing and just playing like we would in practice rounds and I really enjoyed it.
Q. Scott, I noticed that you guys got 61, 62 on the best ball.  You guys were having fun out there.
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, I mean, Brownie and kids are obviously good friends of both of ours, and I've known them forever.  We were talking about it walking down the back, like we both have kids and just stage of life we just don't see each other like we used to.  We haven't played a tournament round to go in Lord knows how long.
I was pretty excited to get my pairing, and it was very comfortable for all of us.  It was nice to go out there.  Obviously Trey played great today.  I was kind of along for the ride there for a while and snuck a few in every now and then, made some pars every now and then.  Just trying to stay out of the way.
Q. Trey, talk about alternate shot tomorrow.  You guys were 70 in that format previously.  What's the strategy for tomorrow?
TREY MULLINAX: Just keep doing what we're doing.  We played really well.  We had that break last night, so we birdied our last hole to kind of get some momentum going, and then we had to go home and rest.
To be able to play 18 holes tomorrow, alternate shot, get in a groove, kind of communicate with each other how we have been doing.  We been helping each other read some putts when we're not sure what the read is and been doing really good on that.
I really enjoy alternate shot.  Scott hits the ball great.  Hitting it nice.  We're both putting well.  I don't feel like there is much pressure on us.  Just go out and do our thing.
Q. What do you do, even and odd holes there?  Is there a strategy, Scott?
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, try to let Trey hit driver as much as possible.  Dottie was out there following us today.  She started laughing.  I could play from some of these tomorrow as I was well, well behind.
Q. Scott, how did you get together?  Tennessee and Alabama guys.  I know you didn't go to Tennessee, but you live in Knoxville.  That doesn't mix.
SCOTT STALLINGS: We all claim each other every now and then.  I knew Trey when he was just -- was it RSM we played together?  I knew Coach Seawell at Alabama through a couple other guys out here.
Trey had a big learning lesson his final round at Sea Island, and I reached out to him when we were don playing and told him what I thought.  I just told him I thought he was going to have an amazing career.
Now to see where he is now a few years later was pretty cool to see him come full circle and now out playing together.
Q. The city of New Orleans, when you speak Alabama, they want to see national championships in football in this city.  I was over at the dome today ans it's all up on the wall there.  Feel any of the good vibes?
TREY MULLINAX: Yeah, we won more, I mean, but other than that...
No, I heard a bunch of "roll tides" out there today.  It was nice.  I didn't know if that was like a good thing because (indiscernible) to keep it down.  I don't want them to get mad.
No, it was great.  The fans here in New Orleans are amazing.  They were all cheering us on and rooting for us.  I heard a lot of, Go Tigers, but that's to be expected.  I love hearing it.  It's a lot of fun.  We like the same coach.
Q. Going into tomorrow, seems like there is a lot of fluctuation potentially on a foursome round as opposed to fourball.  Seem like you might have to play a little defensive to a certain degree.  Nobody is going to go out and shoot 61 or 62.
SCOTT STALLINGS: I don't think it's defensive.  I just I think you're playing more aware of the situation.  The last thing you want to do is put your partner in a tough spot.
Also, like I don't want to hear him be like, Oh, man I just didn't want to hit a bad shot for you.  Like we would rather you, Man, I was trying to execute the shot and I didn't do it.  That's a completely different mindset.
TREY MULLINAX: I think we've done a good job of that, especially in alternate shot the first day.  We both were communicating well with how we wanted to execute the shot.  If we didn't execute, that's one thing.  We were talking through the shot, knew what we wanted to do, and we just tried to do it the best we can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT