SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 2015
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Quotes from:
SCOTT STALLINGS
Q. Good way to finish.  That was a seven-footer there at 18 to shoot 5-under.  The putting was good today, wasn't it?
SCOTT STALLINGS: It was.  The greens are awesome.  The course itself, the greens held up really nice and they're receptive, and they roll awesome.  So you can get a lot of opportunities to make some putts out here, and you definitely have a lot of short clubs, so a lot of chances to make some birdies.
I left a few out there, but it was nice.  And I hit a pretty good shot there at 18, just kind of went through the green a little bit, and obviously always nice to end on a good, solid putt to finish the day.
Q. How big of an advantage is it to be able to get your hand on the ball, clean it, put it back down in place?  For you guys, as good of players as you are, is that a huge advantage?
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, on a day like today you have to.  There's a zero percent chance of playing it down today.  I mean even in the rough, if your ball was just barely in the rough it was a total guess.  If it came out, it was coming out super hot and really hard to kind of control how far it was going to go, but then you get a lie every now and then that if you hit it in the rough that you didn't know if you could hit it any distance at all, just kind of hack it back out in the fairway and go.  But you hit it in the fairway, you definitely have a huge advantage to be able to clean it off.  And we got some shorter clubs on some of these holes and definitely some chances to make some birdies.
Q. Scotty, how is the game right now?  I saw you yesterday during the pro am and watched you some today.  Are you in good shape here in this new wrap-around season?
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah.  Game's feeling good.  It's nice to play, nice to have my job back.  But starting to get more comfortable.  Those first couple of tournaments were kind of getting back into the ebb and flow of golf.  So it was a little bit different.  And yeah, it definitely took me a little bit longer than I wanted, a few rounds to kind of get an idea.  But it's definitely starting to get more comfortable.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT