FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 8, 2015
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  This was much like last year.  No one really talking about you until you showed up on the leaderboard on Sunday.  What do you take away positively from today?  SCOTT STALLINGS: Man, I played great.  I was unbelievably anxious to get the tournament week started.  I haven't been defending champion in a while and I was 3-over after four on the North Course kind of when you're looking to get off to a hot start. In the middle of the 14th fairway, my caddie John kind of let me have it a little bit and told me, you can't birdie them all and just kind of slow down a little bit.  So I kept that mentality, especially on a golf course like this. They did a great job setting it up.  It was difficult.  You had opportunities to make birdies but you definitely had opportunities to make bogeys as well.  It is my first Top-10 on TOUR since I won here last year and definitely look forward to building on to this, especially after how bad I felt last week getting sick.   Q.  You mentioned this is your first top-10 and things you can build on, what are the things that you can build on moving forward?  SCOTT STALLINGS: I put myself in that position.  That's all you want as a PGA TOUR player.  Jason, J.B. made great birdies and I hit my shots coming down the stretch and gave myself chances and didn't capitalize. But at the end of the day I played really well and gave myself a chance to win at the end of the day.  And it's a nice week as defending champion to have a chance to win again. So happy for San Diego and happy for Farmers and looking forward to the next time I'm out.   Q.  We talked on Wednesday and you were just in such a great frame of mind and in a good mood defending champion, I know you're a little disappointed now, but heck of an effort out there.  This course played tough this weekend.  SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, man, it was nice to come out, especially the way I started 3-over after four on Thursday on the North to give myself a chance coming down the stretch on Sunday.  The golf course is super difficult, as everyone knows.  You just kind of got to hang around. John, my caddie did an awesome job as far as keeping me patient and knew we were going to have a chance with the last few holes coming down and I hit some good shots and just didn't quite make the putts.   Q.  John said that shot on 18's the only one that you really spun back the entire week.  You thought it was perfect didn't you, in the air?  SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, we the spot we said to hit it in, the part of the hill, everything, I just, they were so firm I didn't think it would come back that.  I thought it would kill into hill and trickle back, like J.B.'s did.  But that was the most we spun it all week. But I executed under pressure and gave myself a chance and didn't quite make the putt.  But definitely look forward to L.A.   Q.  Every single week that you come out here and you're the defending champion and you lose in a playoff has got to feel pretty good, don't you?  SCOTT STALLINGS: Well, it's nice, that's a good problem to have.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT