FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 5, 2014
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   2-under, good job.   How did you play today?
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   It was good.   I didn't really let it get away from me.   I got off to a rough start.   Lose your patience on this course.   Kind of kicked my way back, then hit a really good shot into 18 and kind of turned it around.   Gave myself opportunities coming in.   Made a few good par putts.   Anything under par here is good.

Q.   What did you think of the conditions today?   The wind seemed to pick up a little bit as you guys played the round.
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   This is about as much wind as you're going to see here.   Normally the wind doesn't really blow like that.   Hopefully the wind with keep the storms away and we'll see.

Q.   Thoughts on how you're playing.   This course is big and we know what's going on next week.
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   This is home state event.   Want to play well.   It's a course I love and course I grew up playing as I kid.   Look forward to playing it in front of friends and family this week.

Q.   68.   You'll take that four days?
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   Yeah.   Any round under par here is good.   The golf course is playing great.   The wind blew a little bit more than most people are probably accustomed here but it's good.   I mean the golf course is fair but anything under par here is good.

Q.   You've had some good rounds here, some success here.   How much do you build on that as you tee it up for another year out here?
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   Played junior events here, I hosted a junior event here last year.   I've been around the golf course a whole lot and am very familiar with it. 
    I remember back when they had bent greens playing here.   I feel very comfortable.   You know, Tennessee is home so it's nice to be playing in front of friends and family.   It's always nice being back in Memphis and the golf course is great.

Q.   Talk about approach on 18.   Pretty much perfect.
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   Yeah.   Obviously you're trying to hit it up there.   Got a good bounce and we thought it was close.   I didn't think it was that close but anything -- any kind of birdie putt on 18 will be good but a tap-in is always nice.

Q.   When you see these clouds rolling in and they're talking about 60-mile an hour winds coming in, are you just happy to have it done, you don't have to worry about any sort of delays in your round today?
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   Yeah.   You know, I can't control the weather.   I can't control what anyone else does.   I went out there and gave myself an opportunity and shot under par and that's really all I can worry about.
    Hopefully the weather will -- where the guys can get it all in today.   The Tour will do the best thing in the interest of the players and try to keep everybody safe. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT