FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 8, 2013
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Five birdies and a double.   How do you feel about your round?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   It was good, man.   You know, just kind of ended weird.   I was playing great and hit a really good tee shot on 11, just started it a hair too far.   The wind was in the complete opposite direction than it was the first couple of days.   Hit a great shot on the wrong line, didn't cover. 
That was really kind of my only mistake.   Made a couple good up and downs.   15 through 18 I didn't miss a shot.   To come away with only one birdie is a little bit disappointing.   I'm playing well and definitely looking forward to a chance and opportunity tomorrow and I'm really to roll.

Q.   Yeah.   Looked like to me you were hitting that driving iron very well today and you just -- it didn't look like you were trying to get too aggressive there, you maybe pushed it a little bit.
SCOTT STALLINGS:   I hit it great all day and hit it great off the tee just a hair.   Wasn't an attempt to try to get too aggressive off the tee.   That hadn't been a problem.   I felt like if I hit it solid, it would be no problem.   Obviously I was mistaken, but, you know, it was. 
But it is what it is.   I played great.   Nice birdie on 17.   Great to cap it off with a birdie on 18.   I definitely look forward to the opportunity tomorrow and come out here and play well.

Q.   It was a great round of golf despite the double.   Good luck tomorrow. 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Thank you. 
The golf course was great and the greens were fantastic as all week.   They were receptive when you were coming from the fairway.   They gave you lots of opportunities to be aggressive if you drove it well.

Q.   You had one bogey and a few birdies.   How do you think you played coming --
SCOTT STALLINGS:   I was good.   I made a lot of birdies coming on the front-9, just kind of the wrong line off the tee on 11 and ended up making a double.   After that, man, I played solid and hit some good solid shots coming down the stretch.   Definitely good kind of building block coming into tomorrow.

Q.   What's the approach for tomorrow?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Same thing, man.   Anything can happen on this golf course, especially with the finish the way it is.   Lord only knows what can happen. 
The golf course should be about exactly the same as it was today as it should be tomorrow, and we'll be out there and the same approach and hope to have an opportunity to make some more birdies.

Q.   I read about where you got into the Open.
SCOTT STALLINGS:   My wife was doing some grocery shopping for a wives event and my son was in the back, he's four months old.   I was literally driving circles around the parking lot and got a phone call from New Jersey and my son was freaking out and just trying to get him to calm down a little bit.   And I got a phone call from New Jersey and it was the guy telling me I got into the Open. It was a pretty weird circumstance to find out.

Q.   Last year it was tough because your grandfather died during the tournament?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Tuesday of the tournament.   He lived about 45 minutes from here.

Q.   What's his name?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Rob Stallings.   We had the funeral Wednesday of the tournament.   It was rough.   It's nice to come back.   My son -- first time I brought my family around here.   It's pretty cool to come back and play and obviously play well with the family in a tournament that I've wanted to be a part of since I was a little kid.

Q.   There's a story out there about hitting the ball over your house into the pool and going and getting it and showing your granddad?   Is that a true story?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   I don't really remember it.   Obviously I was little.   That story has kind of been told around for a long time.   I don't know how my parents let me do that, but --

Q.   At 5.
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Yeah.   It was a fun memory.

Q.   What was his role with you?   Did he have a role in golf or --
SCOTT STALLINGS:   He's just a great grandfather.   He always loved golf.   Liked to watch it on TV.   Obviously anytime I was on there doing well, obviously he was on there checking it out.

Q.   You said you always wanted to play this tournament.   Obviously you left there at five.   You still connected to this tournament?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Being from Tennessee, I mean you want to try to support the events in your home state and you want to try to do whatever you can to support golf and we play junior events here and kind of always a deal to be part of the FedEx event and you know, to try to support the game of golf in the state of Tennessee and junior college.   We're hosting an event.   Myself and Brandt Snedekr do an event.   Anything we can do to support golf in the state in a huge priority. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT