THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2013
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SCOTT STALLINGS:   I mean, it was great, greens were awesome.   But, obviously, (indiscernible).   I started out slow every round I've played this year, and I made a good putt on 1 and then played solid from there on in.   I had a couple more chances, and I made a good par on 9 and kind of kept it going. 
But you don't have to hit very many bad shots out here on this course to have it bite you a little bit.   I made bogey on 11.   Obviously, it's an easier hole, but I hit a bad drive and was forced to pitch out and really had nothing left.   Then 12 I missed the fairway by about a yard.   My ball hit right, hit a tree, went in the bush, and had to take an unplayable.   Then sitting in the middle of the fairway on 16 at 3‑under, and I walk off the hole even par. 
Wind's kind of swirling around a little bit, and it's tough to pick a club.   Obviously, I picked the wrong one, but I think that's the beauty of the golf course.   It's there for the taking.   If you guess right and pick it at the right time and come back and hit two good shots and make birdie on 18.   It's kind of the way it went.

Q.   Is that as wild a 1‑under par round as you can remember? 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Yeah, I don't remember making 7 birdies and shooting 1‑under.   Just like I said, it just goes to show about the golf course and really how volatile it is.   Obviously, Roberto played great today, but he would go ahead and tell you that it wasn't very hard to see it go the other way either. 
But I think the golf course is fair.   They did a great job, no questionable pins or anything like that.   The greens are phenomenal.   I think it just goes to show how good the people are that work on the golf course.   It's hard to believe this course is under water a week ago.

Q.   Were you aware of what you were doing the first five or six holes?   Did you know or did you lose track, lose count? 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   I didn't really care.   It was just nice to see some putts go in.   So we're just trying to play solid, never were concerned with the lead or anything like that.   More or less just trying to keep going and playing.

Q.   What were the range of emotions on a day like today? 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   You've got to stay level headed out there, man.   You can't get too low with the lows or too high with the highs, especially on this course.   Especially you get frustrated with a hole like 16, then you stand on 17 and it's like, man, if I don't get control, I'm going to make a mess of this one too. 
You've got to compose yourself really quick and just expect that the course of a 72‑hole tournament weird stuff's going to happen.   Just as good as I hit it today, it was tough to‑‑ I mean, it's just kind of weird how that stuff kind of happens.

Q.   You said you picked the wrong club at 16.   What did you hit in there? 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   We had like 190 front and 220 hole.   Technically the wind was supposed to be down off the right.   We got up there and realistically all we're trying to do is cover the front of the green and really take long out of play.   So then we started turning around, started turning around, go up there and all the flags on 17 are straight down off the right.   Man, this is not where it's supposed to be, and kind of keep swirling around, swirling around. 
I hit 6‑iron, didn't quite catch as much as I needed to.   It landed just short, and it wasn't a very good shot.   Still I thought it should have been enough to cover if we had guessed the wind right.

Q.   Where did you land? 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Just short, probably a foot short of being right in the water.

Q.   So you walk off the golf course today happy, frustrated, disappointed? 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Kind of a little bit of everything.   But I know that obviously I've struggled of late.   I haven't played my best, but it's nice to see some birdies and go out there and try to capitalize a little better tomorrow.   It's a long tournament.   It's a golf course that anything can happen as I showed today.

Q.   How do you generally feel about the state of your game right now? 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   It's getting better, man.   I have a lot of questions about my game right now.   Not necessarily for myself but from others more or less.   I've had a lot of life changes here in the last couple months with the birth of my son and stuff like that.   Golf is very important in my life.   But making sure he's happy and healthy and kind of starting his life in the world, getting him off to a good start is a little bit more of a priority. 
Golf will always be there, and I'm working hard and it's just a matter of time before I get all of it a little bit like I did today.

Q.   What is your son's name? 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Finn.   He was born February 11.   He's three months old. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT