FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 24, 2013
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about, first of all, you've talked about how bad your west coast play was before.   What's different?   Is it just being healthy?   
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   Being healthy is a big part.   But I worked really hard this off‑season, and I had the opportunity to work on my game the way it needed to be and get my body in shape and do the things that I needed to do to play against the best. cPlaying from behind is no fun, and it's nice to get out there and make some birdies and have an opportunity to stand over it knowing it's not going to hurt when you make a swing.  
   
 Q.   Anything stand out from today or pretty standard 6‑under?   
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   Kind of.   I mean, I played, my good was really good.   But I had a funky stretch there at 10, 11, and 12.   I got up‑and‑down out of the bunker on 10.   Made about an 8‑footer, and 11 hit it right into the lip of the bunker and laid up to 100 yards and made a 15‑footer for par there, and then got up‑and‑down out of the bunker again on 12.   
    But after that, it was pretty solid.   I gave myself good opportunities for birdies.   It was nice to make an eagle there on 14, and go from there.  
   
 Q.   It seems like you're bouncing back from last week and you're playing well again.   
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   Like I said in my interviews when I got done on Sunday, I'm playing well.   I'm giving myself opportunities, and that's really what you want, especially early in the year.   It's nice to get an opportunity.   This is Frank and I's 8th event together.   And 2 out of 7 we've had somewhat of a legitimate chance to win, and that's what you want to keep doing.   Keep knocking on the door and having opportunities to make your bad rounds better and your good rounds great.  
   
 Q.   It seemed like you handled it pretty well.   
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   At the end of the day, man, you learn from every situation you get in.   And I had an opportunity to learn from a lot of my buddies, particularly Webb Simpson.   We had dinner that night, and just talked about a similar situation that he had in Vegas when he was a rookie or first year on TOUR or something like that.   You kind of get in the moment so much, and you overlook the little things. I completely overlooked the lie on 18.   All I was thinking about hitting to the middle of the green, two‑putt for birdie and that was it.   And I think it was more or less having to do with Frank and I being in that situation kind of the first time together under the gun.   
    I got so locked in, and he wasn't going to pull me off the shot.   Kind of completely overlooked the fact that the ball was above my feet, and slight downslope, and you miss it at all, the only place it's going is left.   It's obviously something I'll never do again, but I was really happy with the way I played, and definitely look forward to continuing to play as much as I can until the baby comes.  
   
 Q.   Feelings on the South Course?   
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   I'm excited.   I had a great Pro‑Am there yesterday.   I've never seen it in the shape that it is.   It was definitely firm and fast, but definitely excited to get out there tomorrow and get after it.  
   
 Q.   Do you like the North Course?   It's kind of a par-69 course or so for a guy like you, or do you like it being more open so you can hit driver?   
    SCOTT STALLINGS:   I hit a lot of drivers today.   We said we were going to go out and get aggressive and try to do whatever we possibly could do get back on the golf course so we could kind of take our experience that we learned from last week and put it in play this week.   
    We were really specific.   Frank didn't miss one lie when we were out there.   It was great.   We'll go out there and continue to be aggressive.   On the South, you have to be a little more strategic in a few different places, but more often than not, if you hit some good shots, you'll definitely be rewarded.           
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT