HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 18, 2013
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Seven birdies today.   Tell me what was working for you out there. 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   I hit it straight.   That's what you have to do.   Mostly just keep your head down and just try to make birdies. 
You know, there's perfect scoring conditions, greens are great, and if you get yourself in play off the tee you're going to have opportunities to make birdies. 

Q.   You played, what, Palmer yesterday?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Um-hum. 

Q.   So what do you think of going into Nicklaus tomorrow?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Obviously, the Nicklaus is set up for a lot of birdies, most people would say it's the easier of the three courses to go low on, but when the courses are like they are today with no wind and pretty accessible pins with perfect greens, every course is susceptible to birdies. 
So, obviously, I'm excited about my position, but two more days, keep going out there and stay aggressive. 

Q.   Usually they consider this to be the toughest course, but today there were three or four guys that were in the top-5 or six.   Any reason you think that everyone's doing so well out here today?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   The greens are perfect, La Quinta is always some of probably the best greens on TOUR.   So if you are hitting it good you're going to have lots of opportunities to make some 10-footers and the greens are excellent.   So it was nice. 

Q.   What was your favorite shot of the day?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Probably my second hole.   I tugged it just a hair left and I missed the fairway by about a yard, but I was right next to a tree.   And I kind of had to stand almost touching it.   And I didn't really have a very good lie and I had to keep it in front of a tree in front of me and I hooded a 7-iron and ran it up there about seven feet from the hole.   I didn't make the putt that was definitely the best shot of the day.

Q.   Talk about your birdie binge there from 3 to 6 today.   Any spectacular birdies or putts or anything?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   No, I made about a 10-footer for birdie on three. 
Made about an 8-footer for birdie on four. 
2-putted for birdie on five and 2-putted for birdie on six.   So nothing -- I did what you're supposed to do.   So, I mean, it was boring, but there's no such thing as a boring birdie.   We just need a lot more of them the next couple days.

Q.   How encouraging, or sort of confidence boosting, would it be being in contention in a tournament this early in the season and potentially putting yourself in position to win?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Obviously that's a long way from now, but I worked hard this off-season.   I'm finally healthy and that has a lot to do with it. 
I got hurt here last year January 18th, what's today?   The 18th.   A year ago today I got hurt.

Q.   What did you injure?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   I tore cartilage in five of my ribs.   And we were just talking about it, I mean, so I've worked really hard to kind of get back to this point and so happy to be out there and playing well?

Q.   How did you do that?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   I was receiving some medical attention that did not necessarily go as planned.   Let's just put it that way.

Q.   Would you say you're a hundred percent?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Absolutely.   I feel great. 

Q.   Did it limit your practice time in getting ready for this season the last couple months?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   No, it was kind of full -- I was out of shape, I gained weight.   I did all kinds of stuff that doesn't promote good golf and I kind of rallied at the end of the season and finally got healthy. 
Was able just to play, kind of threw everything out the window, but after Vegas I really kind of took it seriously as far as getting prepared.   And Frank, the new caddie on the bag, has been a huge help and especially his experience and everything like that. 
But it didn't hurt my practice at all.   Just more motivated me because I knew how bad it felt to basically he sit on the sidelines for five months.   I played, but I shouldn't have played. 

Q.   Almost sounds like you are coming into this season with a new perspective on things?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Absolutely.   You are thankful for every single day have you out here, but when you're on the outside looking in, and you're hurt, you kind of realize how special it is to be out here and play on the PGA TOUR. 
But to come back healthy and with stronger work ethic and doing everything you're supposed to do, did definitely makes it all worth it. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT