RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2012
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   The 18th hole is really hard, but you played it like it was easy. 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   The pin was in a good spot, but somehow my ball ‑‑ I didn't think it was possible to get the ball above the hole there.   Had about a 12‑footer.   Without question that was the fastest club of the day.   I tried to give it some time.   Hopefully the wind would blow.   But it just stayed there, and I tried to stay close to home.   It was a great way to finish.

Q.   You're a that he will thee golfer.   We talked at Greenbrier, and you're finally healthy.   We've seen that the last few weeks.   You're playing the best golf you've played in your career the last two weeks. 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   I don't know.   You always feel like you can continue to improve.   But compared to the golf that I played unhealthy this year, this is definitely the best I've played. 
I'm having fun.   I get to live my dream playing on the PGA TOUR.   At the end of the day it's playing golf.   I love playing, being out here.   It's nice to be healthy and not talking about injuries and medicine and all that stuff.

Q.   Whenever you get a birdie, you hop off the green.   Do you realize that?   You literally run off the green?
SCOTT STALLINGS:   I'm trying to get out of there.   So I stole one, and I'm trying to go to the next.

Q.   What are you thinking about this weekend?   You won last week.   A lot is going to play out here in the last hour.   But do you feel good about your situation tomorrow? 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   Yeah, obviously, I'm going to have to play really well tomorrow.   I didn't take advantage of what I needed to on the first day and kind of playing from behind the next couple of days.   But it looks like the guys are playing really well.   I'm going to have to go out and have a good round myself tomorrow.   That's really all I'm worried about.   Whatever's going to happen is going to happen.

Q.   Are you a momentum golfer?   It seems when things are happening right, you're just going to take it and run with it. 
SCOTT STALLINGS:   It seems every time I've strung together a good tournament everything's kind of compounded on the other.   You look at Greenbrier, I made a few birdies last year to get the back nine started, and next thing you know, I'm in contention again. 
This is a momentum sport.   You get a few things going for you, and you see some putts going in, and a lot of cool things can happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT