CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 20, 2011
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Scott, well-played out there. 6-under par, 66 in some pretty tough conditions.  
 SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, it a good take, a patient day. Didn't really get off to the best start, kind of slow, but hit it close a few holes and made some birdies. I played the par-5s good. Kind of played the hard holes and got it in the fairways.   
 Didn't struggle out there too much. Hopefully we can keep it going.  
  
  Q. What was the best part of your game today?  
 SCOTT STALLINGS: I drove it really good. I think I only missed one fairway. When conditions are like this, being on the fairway a pretty key. Look forward to the next three days.  
  
  Q. When you look back at the start of this year, about an hour down the road in Clearwater, Florida, really kind of kick started your year with the sponsor's exemption and a good finish. As you look back on this year, can you imagine where you are right now?  
 SCOTT STALLINGS: Actually, if you go back further than that, December, I got my card at Orange County National. I'm actually staying about two minutes from there this week. My wife and I kind of drove over there. Just kind of funny. It's amazing.   
 Less than a year ago I was pumped to get my card and then pumped to actually just make a cut and then win, and then all the crazy stuff that went on with it. Central Florida has been really good to me this year. (Laughing.)   
  
  Q. So that was one of th reason why you decided to come play this event?  
 SCOTT STALLINGS: Not really. Actually, I was not planning on playing this event. But I have a little niece and a little nephew, Pete and Vivian (phonetic). We love those kids to death and they wanted to come to Disney World, so Uncle Scott brought 'em to Disney World.   
 So my brother and sister-in-law and my mother- and father-in-law came down with my wife. They're having a good time in the parks. They're not watching any golf. I don't know which park they're at today, so I am going to go try and find 'em, round 'em up, and see if I can go hang out with 'em.  
  
  Q. So it's been a great year for the whole Stallings clan.   
 SCOTT STALLINGS: Absolutely. My wife has had a blast, so it's a cool way to end the season. They haven't been to a tournament this year, so to have an opportunity to be at a cool place like this, especially a family place like this with Disney World, a great sponsor.   
 Last tournament in the States for me before China and Malaysia.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT