THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 30, 2011
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Scott Stallings threw the interview room. Another solid day out there. Get some comments on your third round. 
 SCOTT STALLINGS: I played within myself. I guess I did all the things that you're suppose to do: I kept the ball play; I kept the ball below the hole; I hit it to the fat part of the greens when I didn't have a good angle, even though I really didn't want to. 
 Hats off to my caddie. He did an unbelievable job as far as just keeping me patient. You see all the low scores and, definitely when I had opportunities to make birdies, he did a great job as far as kind of pulling me back a little and making me play a little smarter. 
 Yeah, it was really good day.
 THE MODERATOR: Talking to you outside, Greenbrier may want to give you a job in their PR department. Talk a little bit about your week, how much fun you've had, and how relaxed you are.
 SCOTT STALLINGS: Well, I mean, this whole place is incredible. I mean, just the concerts each night and just the amenities themselves -- you know, the golf course tournament is phenomenal, but it's nice going to a place where you definitely feel like they go out of their to way make you feel welcome.
 Yeah, as soon as you got here -- I was on the charter coming from Canada -- and as soon as you got here you saw 30 people welcome you at 4:00 in the morning. It's one of those things like, Man, they definitely care about the players and they want 'em to have a good experience and they want 'em to come back. 
 I have no complaints whatsoever. I've had an absolute blast, and I can't wait to come back.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. With chance to tie for the lead, any disappointment about 17 or 18?
 SCOTT STALLINGS: I birdied 17. I hit a good shot in there. Two-putted. Had a really tough putt kind of snapping left. 
 18, I hit my putter right where I wanted to, it just didn't make break. We were kind of confused and just didn't do -- hit my putt where I wanted to. 
 But to have the opportunity to tie, that's going to take care of itself. I was just trying to make as many birdies as possible.

 Q. Have you played the final grouping yet this season?
 SCOTT STALLINGS: I have not. I played second to last group in Transitions in Tampa with Webb the week that Gary won. So it's kind of funny to see all those names on the leaderboard. Kind of Eerily similar to Tampa with all the names that were up there.

 Q. What would it mean for you to get the chance to have your first win here?
 SCOTT STALLINGS: That's all stuff that takes care of itself. I mean, you could play really good and not win. In Tampa I felt like I played great and I didn't win. Gary and Webb both played awesome and I felt like I got to beat. 
 At the end of the day, you just do as you possibly can. If it's good enough, that's awesome. But I was telling the guys outside, as a little kid watching the PGA Tour and stuff like that, I mean, I was that guy that Sundays, that's all I did. 
 To have an opportunity to play out here with the best players in the world is a dream come true every single day. It's my rookie year. I am kind of three-fourths of the way through, and I'm sitting there and just kind of pinching myself every single day to have the opportunity to play out here. I love it. 

 Q. Talk about the opportunity to play with Anthony Kim. 
 SCOTT STALLINGS: I don't know, there was definitely a lot of learning experience playing in Transitions with Webb. He got off to a great start and got the lead, and I felt like I was more or less chasing him the rest of the round.
 I learned a lot. I'm just trying to hit the shots that I'm hitting and not really worry about what he's doing. I feel like if I give myself good opportunities to make birdies, I'll have a chance and all that other stuff will take care of itself. Just try to go out there and try to hit a good shot and try to go from there. 
 THE MODERATOR: Let's go through the scorecard. You played your last 42 holes without a bogey. Four birdies today. Talk about the one on No. 3.
 SCOTT STALLINGS: No. 3 was funny. I had a right to lefter from about 20 feet, and Gary's coin was kind of on the spot that I was putting at. I told him when he was trying to move it, I said, I just need to putt it right on top of it. 
 I actually pulled it just slightly and I hit his mark and it went into the hole. So we had a good laugh about that. I gave him an assist.
 And No. 6, hit a really good drive. Hit it over the bunker. Had 139 and just a good full pitching wedge, and I hit in there about four feet and made a birdie. Obviously a 407-yard and the opportunity to make birdie there, you take advantage of it. 
 12, the downwind par-5. Hit a pretty good drive out there. Had 5-iron. Hit it just kind of pin high just off the back right of the green. Chipped it up to three or four feet and made a birdie there.
 THE MODERATOR: And the one on 17.
 SCOTT STALLINGS: 17 I hit a really good drive. It was a little bit different angle today just because they moved the tee up. It was back into the wind, so some of the longer guys could probably hit it in the bunker, but hit a good drive out there just short of the green and hit a hybrid on the green about 25, 30 feet and two-putted for birdie.
 THE MODERATOR: Anything else? Scott, thanks for coming by. Play well tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT