TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2011
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round and the weekend as a whole.   
 SCOTT STALLINGS: The weekend was awesome. My caddie and I said we would take 12-under and see what happens. You know, I really hit a good shot on 16. It started where I wanted it to end, and that's kind of the thing that sucks about going first. You don't really know what the wind was.   
 But I hung in there. For my first time being in that whole situation, I was proud of the way I hung in there. A sponsor exemption changed my year, and I can't thank Transitions enough. I mean, without them giving me the opportunity to play, there's no way I would have been here. I mean, one good tournament completely changed my year.   
  
  Q. What were your thoughts when you got out there? Were you nervous, excited?  
 SCOTT STALLINGS: No, I was excited. My caddie and I, we haven't been in this situation, and that's kind of something we feel like we've been working at for a really long time. He's stuck with me, and we've been grinding and grinding and grinding to see good shots, and he's worked his butt off, so it's nice to now see the two of us have a little success which will set us up for the rest of the year.  
  
  Q. I know that Kenny Perry has been a big supporter of you. Did you talk to him last night or this morning before your round?  
 SCOTT STALLINGS: No, he kind of said what he needed to say earlier in the week, and I'm sure if I asked him any questions, he'd be like, quit wasting my time and go out there and hit some shots. But I can't thank him enough, can't thank Transitions enough and the PGA TOUR. I mean, this is something that you dream about, and to go out there and have an opportunity to win, first time to be in this situation, it was pretty cool.  
  
  Q. Now that you have this third place finish under your belt, do you take away confidence from this going forward?  
 SCOTT STALLINGS: Nothing but confidence. Yeah, you can go back to the swing on 16, but I could go back and redo a million things differently, but only confidence going on from here, and definitely look forward to Houston but I'm looking forward to a week off. I haven't been home since January 5th.  
  
  Q. What are you going to do for your week off?  
 SCOTT STALLINGS: Probably nothing.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT