SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2018
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just thoughts on the two rounds.  
SCOTT STALLINGS: It was good, man.  Got a really unfortunate break yesterday on 5 and hit it up beside the green.  Thought it was a pretty good spot to chip from, chance to make a three or four, and end up making a seven.  My ball plugged right next to the bunker; never found it.   
 Q.  Really?  
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah.  So it was unfortunate.  I was 5-under for the time and playing solid.  You know, and I knew I was playing well.  Kind of a damper at the end of the day.  Just a rough break like that.   
I wanted to come out here today and put myself in position to have an opportunity to make birdies again.  I was able to do that.   
 Q.  Hitting it well?  Putting well?  
SCOTT STALLINGS: I feel fortunate to even be there.  I thought I broke my hand in the first round in Malaysia.  I literally called my trainer and said, Hey, man, I cannot squeeze my -- I cannot make a fist.  My 9th hole was No. 18 on the first round in Malaysia.  I hit it out the fairway bunker and I just smashed club into the lip and the club got stuck and kind of jarred my wrist and my hand.   
I literally came back and thought I was done.  I thought my hand would be in a cast.  I went and got it checked out and was fortunate enough to just kind of sprain that joint right there in my wrist and kind of went up into my elbow.  Had it worked on for three, four days.  Literally went from getting home and not knowing if I'm playing any more the rest of the fall to hitting drivers like three days later.   
My trainer, Adam Curley, just kind of got to work on it.  Very lucky.  It's nice to feel like I have control of the club face again somewhat.   
 Q.  So did you WD after nine holes in Malaysia?  
SCOTT STALLINGS: No, I played.  I called him and he said, Man, if it's broken you can't really break it anymore.  If it's broken, it's broken.   
If it was in America I would have withdrawn, but it was a no-cut event.  I'm that far away.  I'm going to try to make it.   
Definitely got to the point by the end of the tournament it was comical, some of the shots I was hitting.  I actually drove okay, but if I had to hit the ground, Whoo.  People were in danger everywhere.   
But literally I called John when we landed.  I said, I don't know what we're playing.  I got to got to the doctor.  I got to get this sorted out.  It's still sore, but nothing to the point of where it was.  If you shook my hand I would go to my knees.   
 Q.  It's fine now?  
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah.  Like I said, it's sore, but there is no like structural damage or anything like that.  Just like a jarring that kind of pinched up in my elbow.  Super lucky.   
 Q.  How much do you weigh now and how much did you weigh when you won this event?  
SCOTT STALLINGS: I don't know what I weighed when I won this event, but I weigh about 188 right now.   
 Q.  How much would you say you dropped overall?  
SCOTT STALLINGS: 46 pounds.   
 Q.  Okay.  What year did you win here?  
SCOTT STALLINGS: 2012.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT