WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2018
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Round of 65.  Your eagle at 17.  Tell us how you made that one.
SCOTT STALLINGS: The pin's in the front right today and it's pretty accessible.  It was kind of the luck of the bounce.  I hit a good drive and it was on a good line and just got lucky enough that it caught right and it was nice to hit it in there six, eight feet and move on.  It was a good shot, but it got a really lucky bounce.
Q. Starting the round at the 10th.  Obviously pretty chilly out there.  What the are greens like first thing?
SCOTT STALLINGS: Very slick.  And you're just kind of -- you see this ball barely went in there -- but just kind of be patient and it was kind of a guess at the start of the day as far as how the ball was bouncing, but as the round kind of progressed obviously got a nice 2 on 17, I drove it nice and hit a lot of greens.
Q. You played seven times this year about your best finish is 39th.  Did you feel this form coming?
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, it stinks because we kind of play a result-oriented sport, but it was kind of like, oh, where have you been?  It's like, I've been working hard.  Nothing really changed, it's just a matter of seeing some putts go in and driving it a little bit better and I've been able to do that this week.
Q. You are a huge Patriots fan.  I remember in 2015 you tweeted from Super Bowl how much you were loving it.  Thoughts on this Super Bowl coming up this Sunday?
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, these nail biters are tough, I want to see a blow out.  Obviously I was born in Boston and a huge Patriots and New England sports fan in general, so I'll definitely be watching and cheering the team on.  And there will be some Patriots here come out this weekend and hopefully the boys can bring it home.
Q. What a brilliant round of golf today, 65.  2-under yesterday, and 6-under today.  Tell me a little bit about how your game felt out there.
SCOTT STALLINGS: It was good.  Obviously it's a golf course I feel comfortable on -- I never played well here -- I live here in the winter and I spend a decent amount of time out here and just kind of wanted to get off to good start.  Made a nice birdie on 10 and kind of got through the tough stretch there with 11, 12 through 14.  Then obviously it's a bonus making a 2 on 17.  Hit a nice shot in there and got a fortunate bounce to roll up on the green and made a putt.  But I drove it nice and gave myself lots of chances.  It was nice to see -- I didn't realize I hit 18 greens until my caddie said something on the last -- so obviously a lot of chances throughout the day.  The greens were great and the golf course is in unbelievable condition, so it's nice to see some putts go in and look forward to the weekend.
Q. You've only, you've never made a cut here, so what was different do you think this week?  Just good solid visualization?
SCOTT STALLINGS: My family's had a three-year run of the stomach virus at this tournament.  And there's a Mayo Clinic tent which we have spent the last three years in.  Actually, when we were making the turn, one of the nurses came up and said, we're happy we haven't seen you this year.  So a little bit of bad luck in this event for the last few years, but I feel good now and all our family's doing well.  So just, it's golf, golf's a weird game.  I never made the cut at Torrey Pines before I won there and so hopefully have a chance coming down the weekend.  But it's nice to be playing in a place I consider home and the weather's great and this crowd is unbelievable.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT