THE RSM CLASSIC
November 19, 2015
Scott Stallings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I thought you had one more at 18.  Maybe hit it a little too firm.
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, it was kind of a sloppy finish.  Five iron into a par-5, and you know, kind of had the ball a little bit above my feet.  Water is not really in play, but you see it.
Made a bad swing and kind of hit a poor chip.  Hit a good putt; just misread it a little bit.
Definitely happy with the way I played and excited for the next few days.  Made a lot of birdies.  Made a few mistakes, but definitely when I had an opportunity to hit a close shot, I took advantage.
Q. Last few weeks we followed you off and on.  Looks like the old Scott Stallings.  Ball-striking is really good.
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, been working pretty hard in the off-season, you know, especially I had a little bit of extra time off.  Kind of got back to it a little bit and got back to the way I was doing things early part of my tour career.
Started hitting ball a little bit more solid and kind of having -- especially driving the ball a lot better, not kind of having a consistent miss and something that can be relied upon.
Q. Talk about the conditions today.  Wasn't a lot of wind.  You caught Plantation, really both size I think are playing pretty easy today.  I guess you felt like you had to go low because the opportunities were there, right?
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah.  I'm kind of surprised the lead is only 7-under.  I thought someone would go.  I mean, it was definitely there.  I mean, Duff played awesome today, and 5-under was probably the worst he could have shot.
But definitely we had a good group.  The course is soft.  There is a lot of opportunities to make birdies out there, so hopefully we can keep doing it.
Q. You like the course?
SCOTT STALLINGS: I do.  I like the two different golf courses.  I think it kind of exposes a little bit more of what this place has to offer.  This place a special to me and my family and a place we enjoy coming even when the tournament is not here.
It's nice to see and for people on TV to have an idea what it's really like here.  Just a pretty cool place to come visit.
Q. Yeah.  They're going to turn the wind machine back on tomorrow.  Going to be more like you're used to.
SCOTT STALLINGS: Yeah, I am sure.  We're not going to catch many days like this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT