SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 8, 2020
James Hahn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Seems like you continued that.  Just a fact of being healthy, or what are you doing different?
 JAMES HAHN:   Just enjoying life.  You know, I feel like I'm happier.  I'm eating healthier.  Relationship with my family is really good; golf is really easy right now.
 I'm not sure if that has anything to do with it, but I feel like when I'm happy I'm playing some of my best golf.
 Q. They say happy people are good putters, and you made 91 feet in putts in the opening round.
 JAMES HAHN:   That's it.  Okay.  Yeah, I had couple looks coming in.  The one on 18, I had the one on I think 15 that kind of got away.  Could have made a couple more, but that's golf.
 I'm really happy with how I played today.  Didn't hit a lot of the fairways, but maybe fix that tomorrow.
 Q. You're still playing on a medical.  How is your health?
 JAMES HAHN:   I feel 100%.  It was a partially torn triceps tendon that I ended up getting some PRP, prolotherapy, and some rehab, and I feel 100%.  My strength is back.
 Haven't been able to go to the gym to really get my strength up where it was before COVID, but I feel great.  There is zero pain and looking forward to a good season.
 Q. If the elbow injury is healed, do you still have Gangnam Style in you?
 JAMES HAHN:   Absolutely.  I think it helps out a little bit more.  Get a little bit for schwank in my dance routine.
 Yeah, I just -- it's really relieving to wake up in the morning and not feel any pain.  It just puts me in a better mood, and regardless of how I play I feel healthy.
 Q. What is the mentality of playing on a major medical?  Is there pressure?  Are you counting down weeks?
 JAMES HAHN:   It's the weirdest feeling because I've never been in this position before.  But how I'm -- I guess if you read (indiscernible) books, how you're supposed to go in every golf tournament should be same.  You're trying to win.  You're here to compete.  That's what I'm doing.  I'm competing.
 I'm not looking at how many points I need to keep my medical.  I feel like when starts getting closer down to three, four, five starts, is when I'll maybe start freaking out.  So if you want to talk to me couple months from now.
 Right now I feel like I have 12 starts left.  I mean, that should be plenty of starts for me to at least get off to a good start in this year's FedExCup and put me in a good position to make the playoffs.
 Ultimately that's what we're all trying to do here is make the playoffs, make a run at the FedExCup, and try to win the big thing.
 Q. So this week and 12 more or is this one of 12?
 JAMES HAHN:   One of 12.  Right, correct.  So I started off this season with 14.  I've played two, two Top 10s that put me in a great position to where I don't have to think about it anymore.
 How I'm kind of parlaying my medical is if I finish before the New Orleans, the Zurich Classic, then regardless of what happens I can team up with someone in the Zurich Classic, so this adds another event.
 With my past champion status I will still get into John Deere, Reno-Tahoe, Barbasol.  So I can kind of put in a schedule maybe about 19 events regardless of what happens with my medical.
 So I'm just kind of looking at it like that, where I have 19 events.  I know what my schedule is, and if I happen to get invited to some of the bigger tournaments or the majors, that's a blessing.
 But just try to get it done in 19 events.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT