VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2014
James Hahn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good run.   How happy?
JAMES HAHN:   Very happy.   Going through some swing issues earlier in the week.   Glad to iron it all out.

Q.   What adjustments did you make and how surprised are you, how quickly maybe they've taken shape?
JAMES HAHN:   So, I don't have a swing coach that's the number one thing.   I was going to YouTube a couple days ago and looking at some stuff and got some good swing tips from Seve Ballesteros, how he was swinging when he was swinging well back in the days and tried to make the same moves.

Q.   What do you look for when you're looking on YouTube?   There's a lot of different places you can go.
JAMES HAHN:   Anything in slow motion, the Konica Minolta stuff is pretty good because you can see how bodies turn and how things react. 
Really just trying to get some good visuals because I don't have -- I didn't bring my camera out this week so I don't know what it looks like.   Trying to get the feel of just a solid good set-up and good balance.

Q.   Why Seve?
JAMES HAHN:   Because he's awesome.   It just happened to be up there and clicked on it and watched about 20 minutes of it and just watched him hit balls on the range and it was fantastic.

Q.   Tough conditions this morning.   How did the course played this afternoon?
JAMES HAHN:   This afternoon, definitely easier today than the morning.   The greens are good speed.   They're not getting away from you.   If you hit a lot of fairways you can go flag hunting but you have to play smart on the harder holes and really get your short game going.   If you miss a couple, the rough is brutal out there.

Q.   One round under your belt, sometimes you're on the side of a draw, sometimes the bad side.   Where do you think you stand after teeing off this afternoon and not this morning?
JAMES HAHN:   I think it's a great draw.   I think, you know, because it was still so cold this morning and I heard it was blowing up to 30 miles an hour.   Right now it's probably 5, half club to a full club difference up there. 
I can't imagine playing it when it's three, four, five different clubs up there.   Definitely happy with the draw this week. 

Q.   Did you ever have a swing coach?
JAMES HAHN:   No. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT