SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2018
James Hahn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You played so well today.  At any point, was it exhaustion?  You start to lose concentration.  Or is it just -- I know you wanted to go left on 18 and it didn't.  Was that a surprise to you, the last playoff hole?  
JAMES HAHN: Yeah.  I mean, I didn't make any good strokes coming down the stretch.  I know you have to make a putt to win this thing.  That's going to hurt a little bit.  It was six feet.  We just basically misread it.  I knew it was going to go right, and we played it pretty straight, and it went right.  Didn't make a good stroke.   
Anyway, same as the last hole.  Undecided on the par putt really, and any time you have indecision, you don't really put a good stroke on it.  It's unfortunate how it turned out.   
 Q.  You played wonderful.  It was a great day, 62.  You must take a lot of good things away from Hawaii right now for the rest of the season.  
JAMES HAHN: Yeah.  No, it's going to hurt.  It's bittersweet.  Any time you have a chance to have an opportunity to win, especially on the last hole, six feet.  All you had to was put a good stroke on it, and unfortunately I didn't.  That's going to hurt for a little bit.  Granted, I made a lot of birdies today, but disappointed on how I finished.   
 Q.  James with his daughter Kylie.  That always makes the disappointment go away, I'm sure.  I want to talk about your day before we get into the playoff.  What attitude did you bring into this golf course trailing by seven to put yourself in a position too win?  
JAMES HAHN: Just keep my head down and kept grinding.  Made a lot of putts early on, kind of kept the momentum going.  Five in a row definitely helped out a lot.  Started feeling it coming down the stretch.  Luckily birdied two coming in and didn't make any on the last three.  That's kind of where it went wrong.  But made a lot of birdies today.  So I'm happy with how it finished.   
 Q.  I know you're going to replay the playoff, the six holes in your head.  As you look back on those holes, how would you describe your performance?  
JAMES HAHN: Terrible.  Had opportunities to win, didn't pull it off.  For me, I'm a competitor.  I'm a grinder.  Love to compete.  I hate losing.  It's going to push me to be better.  Definitely happy with how I played, especially with this little one in my arms, but the overall assessment, I need to get better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT