PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 24, 2000
Nathalie Tauziat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Looked like you had it wrapped up; 6-2, 4-0 and she (inaudible)? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  She started to play better, and me, I just give no more power on the ball.  I start to play a little bit shorter.  That's enough, and she play much better. 


Q.  Did you worry at all; 4-4?  

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, I was upset, but I was lucky to win my serve at this time.  I felt good, I win my serve, and the game after, it give me confidence.  When I come back 3-2, 3-0, I said, this is a chance, and I take it.  

Q.  At the end of the match you let out, was it kind of a scream of relief or just excited to be done with.  

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  To be done with that one.  Just happy to win tonight.  


Q.  How about playing Monica tomorrow? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, it's tough match but nice to a match like this before the U.S.  I waiting for that, and it's going to be, I hope it's going to be a good match.  I'm going the try to play like I play first set; 4-Love.  If I play like this, maybe I have my chance, I have to play like this to beat her. 


Q.  You say you want to keep playing tennis and having some fun; did you have fun playing tonight? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Yes, I have fun, since San Diego, I play like this and San Diego, even when I lose against Kournikova, I play a good match.  Today I think I play a good match.  Not really until the end but first set was very good.  First set until 4-Love, and after I just fight, you know, it's tough.  Always the players doesn't want to lose.  When she's 6-2, 4-Love, done.  She has nothing to lose.  She try to play better.  If you not really concentrate, you can lose the match.  I play to win in two sets. 


Q.  The bugs bothering you at all? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  I never saw so much bugs in one tennis court in my life.  It was unbelievable.  Maybe one time I play, I play late there was some bugs, not like this, I never saw so much like this. 


Q.  Did it bother you?  Does it take anything away -- 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  It start to bother me when she come back.  You start to see the bugs everywhere, and you're upset because the player is in front of you play better and you start to be upset.  And one thing can happen, you never know.  That's where I start to see the bugs so much.  I say, what's up.  I look at me, and I have everywhere.  I said, my God, I mean, it's unbelievable.  


Q.  Nathalie, Kim has beaten you twice this year? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Yes. 


Q.  Is this a big win for you then? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  I think when she beat me I wasn't really in a top of my game mentally, but she play good and I lost in three set.  But today I was very good in my game, and I have to play well to beat her.  I mean, she's tough player.  She beat some good players already.  She's young, she's hungry, you know, she want to be top beat top players.  You have to be ready to play that kind of player.  If you play not really a top player, you can lose easy. 


Q.  You think she has the game to be a top ten player? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Yeah, yeah.  She need to be more consistent, but she have the game.  She prove already she can beat top players. 


Q.  When will you decide whether you'll come back next year? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  When? 


Q.  Will you wait till after the Open? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  I just -- everybody said I'm going to retire at the end of the year.  I always say I take my decision at the end of the year.  That's what I'm going to do.  But there is some chance I'm playing next year, some tournament just for fun, not like this year.  I play really to be qualified for the championship, to play the Olympics and everything.  Now I'm not playing the Olympics, so I want to be at championship.  I fight for that, and I'm going to play for that.  But next year I just want to play the tournament I like, you know, over the years and have fun on the court.  And if my ranking still a good ranking to get in the door, why not play.  If I feel in good shape and my body is okay, I'm going to play some tournament 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT