CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE WTA TOUR
November 20, 1999
Nathalie Tauziat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. The first game of the second set, you had Love-30 and you didn't put another point
and you sort of threw down your hand, what happened? 
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: What happened? It's not the game, it's since two months, I play every
week and I play very well every week, semifinal, semifinal, if I win, whatever. And that
was -- at the end, I was not there. I mean, my head was not there. I fight very good in
that first set, and after the second set it was -- you know, when you are at Love-30, she
made two doublefault, and after that she serve four first serve, what you can do? Just
say, "Okay, good serve" and you change.  
 
Q. At that point were you just kind of wanting to get off the court?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: No, no. I mean, it's only 7-6, 1-Love, why you want to get off the
court? You want to fight at this time. But my head, I have no more power, that's it.
Yesterday, I finish at 11:00, 11:15, and I didn't sleep before 1:30 and I have to play
again today. She played at 6:00 and I play at 9:30. It's completely different.  
 
Q. But were you physically or exhausted?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: No, mentally, not physically.  
 
Q. It is a disappointing end, but the year is good for you in general?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Well, yes, it's good. I finish the year 7 or 8 in the world. Last
year I finish 10; so this year is better, I think. I am happy about -- I win two
tournaments this year, quarterfinal in Grand Slam is not too bad.  
 
Q. Next year?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Next year, yes, I'm still playing, but I'm going in Australia for the
third time only, and I'm going to try at the beginning of the year to play like I play
right now.  
 
Q. The game is going more to serve-and-volley but yet you're doing better and better?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: I think there is future for serve-and-volley. I think everybody
playing faster from the baseline, but many players play well from the baseline, and the
one who want to be in the front of the other one need to go more to the net. So I think
the game is going to change a little bit in the future.  
 
Q. And what is the difference for you?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Because I practice hard and I believe in myself (laughs). No, I don't
know. I play good right now because I work on my tennis since long time. I work my serve,
my volley, and now I am confident. I like the game I play, and I have fun on the court,
and I think it's important, too.  
 
Q. At set point, 6-5, the second serve, was that the turning point?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Yeah, maybe. Because in tiebreak, Lindsay is very tough in tiebreak.
She serve pretty good. If she put first point, it's very tough and you have to play very,
very well to win the tiebreak against Lindsay. So when I have this set point, I miss the
shot, but I take my chance. I mean, I just missed the shot, and I want to go and I miss,
and after, she win the game. And in tiebreak she played well. She played a very good
tiebreak. And second set, I was -- my head -- I have an explosion in my head.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Maybe I made four doublefault all the week in this match. I can't
push with my legs anymore, it was like -- and she plays so fast, you need to be very fast,
you know.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT