CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE WTA TOUR
November 19, 1999
Nathalie Tauziat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You're in the semifinals. How much of a break do you consider it not having to have
played Serena, playing Van Roost instead? 
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: It's playing Van Roost instead of Serena, but it's a tough opponent
Van Roost, too. I don't know her ranking, but she is in the Top 15, and she's playing
pretty good. I think today I played a very consistent match. I didn't miss a lot of serve,
and I played very consistent, played very good match. Sometimes when you play -- if I have
to play Serena Williams, I have nothing to lose, but against Davenport, it's a different
situation for me.  
 
Q. Do you think this court suits your game of serve-and-volley?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Yes, of course, yeah. This court is perfect for me.  
 
Q. How do you look at tomorrow's semifinal?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: I'm looking good. I have nothing to lose, and I'm playing very good
right now. I played a short match tonight; so I'm going to be fine tomorrow.  
 
Q. Have you played before, Davenport, and do you remember?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Well, I played her many times. She beat me; I beat her. I think right
now I play pretty good tennis. Like I said, I have nothing to lose and I'm going to try to
play the best tennis I can. I'm very confident right now. I think I have a chance
tomorrow; so I'm going to try to take it. And if she plays better than me, if she beat me
-- if I play really well, and she beat me, it's okay for me. It's no problem.  
 
Q. Did you expect such a short match?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: You don't know what to expect with Dominique. She can play pretty
good. She can hit every ball on the court and play pretty well, but I think she don't like
my game because I play her so -- I put a lot of pressure on her and she don't like that.
Maybe this match can be closer, but it didn't because I think I play good on the break
point and I play very concentrate.  
 
Q. There was like seven set points. What was going on in your head?
 
 NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Well, nothing. Sometimes on the set points, she played good point.
And it was on her serve, I think, I have two or three set point, but she served good every
time. She played good. And on my serve, it was tough to finish, but if I put my first
tennis this year, when I serve to win the first set -- I didn't serve -- I didn't put a
lot of first serve, and it's not very good. But one time, I deuce and I put two first
serve and I win the set.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT