CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 17, 1998
Nathalie Tauziat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Comment on how difficult or easy it is to motivate yourself when there is such a small crowd watching. 
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  We are here to play tennis and we are motivated by the result.  And for myself, I don't care if there is people to watch or not.  It is better if there is, but if there isn't; it is not crowded, it is okay.  We just play to show to the people who are there how we play.  That is it. 
 

Q.  This year you reached your first Grand Slam final and your ranking has just lately been the highest that you have reached.  Why is all this coming to you late in your career?   Do you have a reason?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, it is because it has happened now.  I mean, it is like this.  I have to fight how -- my career about my tennis, about what I want to change with my federation, with everything.  So it was tough to concentrate on my tennis, you know, very well.  I decide that four, five years ago don't care about everything and just play my tennis and change my tennis because the games start to be more aggressive.  We work hard with my coach.  Right now I think I have the result of my work.  It is better now than ever. 
 

Q.  What sort of changes did you make in your game?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, the tennis is very aggressive right now so I improve my serve first and my return.  And if you saw my game, I mean, I come to the net often and I try to volley often and to be very aggressive.  That is how I changed my game. 
 

Q.  You and Natasha have played some very close matches in the past.  Do you feel like you have solved your game maybe?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Last match I played against Natasha I played a pretty good match.  I didn't miss too many balls.  Today I don't think at the beginning of the match we played each other well.  I mean, it was -- everybody was a little bit tight and it wasn't a really good match but after I played really well.  I played a solid match.  I know how Natasha is playing.  She knows my game, but maybe right now I am better than her, that is it. 
 

Q.  Being an attacking player, do you prefer to play indoors?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Yeah, it is when you come to the net like this for your serve it is much better, you know, outside you can have some wind or something like that, it can be tough for you.  But I think I always play good indoors, even before, but right now with my new game, yeah, I -- I like to play outside too.  I play on hard court pretty well.  Wimbledon is outside and I played pretty well. 
 

Q.  You have also had some good success against Lindsay Davenport this season.  Do you feel your game matches up well against her?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  The first response I have is she has  to play Testud and she is French, so, it is a tough match. 
 

Q.  I understand.
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Last time they played each other, I think Testud won. 
 

Q.  Hypothetically.
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, the thing is - either one, if I have to play either one I have to play my best tennis to win so I don't care who won and I just want to play my best tennis.  I know I beat Davenport.  I know I beat Sandrine, but it is a tough match.  You play in the Championship, every match is very tough. Everybody is tired, so, you know, I know I am not going to play tomorrow.  I have to play doubles tomorrow, so, until the next match, I mean, everything can happen.  I don't want to think about the singles right now. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT