STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 11, 1996
Nathalie Tauziat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Mary Joe said she had trouble picking up your serve; that
you were doing things that she wasn't able to read.  Were you
doing anything differently or did you notice she was having trouble
with it?

 NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  No, I have a good serve now.  I can put the
ball anywhere I want and I mix a lot, you know, sometimes I can
serve forehand or backhand anyway and that was tough for her to
read my serve.

 Q.  Was that the main reason you feel that you were able to
keep her out of the match in the second set?

 NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  No, I think I played a good match. I think,
on my serve, I played really well on my serve and I just have
to play her well on her serve and to break her.  I was very confident
on my serve, so, you know, that helped me a lot in this game,
and after, I just have to break her.  It was tough to return,
I think, to serve with the wind sometimes and it was tough to
move very well with the wind on the ball, but I think I played
better than her anyway.

 Q.  Was there anything specific that you thought that she
 was having trouble with that you attacked?

 NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  No, I want to play my game and to win with
my game.  I know she doesn't like topspin ball and I use it, some
topspin ball, but after I attack every short ball and I come into
the net and put it away and on my serve I play serve and volley
a lot of time and that was good, but that is my game anyway.

 Q.  You have been playing better recently.  Is this part of
a trend for you?  Have you been playing some better tennis? You
say your serve is much better.

 NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  I have been good with my serve in one year.
 I worked a lot on my first serve and because I want to play aggressive
and I think the serve is a part of the aggressive game and I win
on grass court because I serve pretty well, serve and volley,
and now I am -- I try to use it on hard court, or whatever, and
it is good for me.  I think it has improved my serve and it has
improved my game too.

   End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT