VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 15, 1993
Nathalie Tauziat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Your game looked good today.  Is this going to keep you from training, continuing working hard, or is it going to make you work twice as hard? 
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  No, I work like the same, but maybe differently.  Like I work on my game to be more accuracy and I now I'm more like this, I come more to the net, I serve better today, I serve but sometimes I serve better and I play good match against Martina, but she still better than me and I have more work to do.  
 

Q.  Do you marvel at a woman, 37 years old can still play that well? 
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, it's good she's stop for us next year but not for tennis, anyway.  She's still very good and she's still in good shape; she can play maybe two or three years but she want to stop next year.  That's bad for tennis, I think.  I think, you know, she have a nice game to watch, she have nice looking, too.  And I think it's-- she's still in a good shape and, well, maybe she not stop if she playing well next year, maybe she change her mind.  
 

Q.  Can you learn things from her as you play with her? 
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Sorry?  
 

Q.  Can you learn things from her as you play? 
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Yes, yes, you know, my dream was to play like her, and when you saw her playing like this against somebody like dropshot volley it's very nice to see that, and, well, but when I play against her I don't have to watch that I have to play and see what's going on, but I like to watch her play when we are in the same tournament and I have a tape about her and I want to improve my game at the net so I watch a lot Martina playing like this.  
 

Q.  Nathalie, when you came on the court it was all the public applauding for Martina, did it make you feel a little bit intimidated? 
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  No, I know that.  You know, that's maybe the last time she play here and next year so next year is going to be tough to play her, every tournament is going to be like this, so that's-- she's a queen of tennis and we have to understand that and we know it's going to be like this, before I said to my coach, look, it's big for America, today was a little bit like this at the beginning of the match and I know Martina when she play in America it's always like this, and we know and we have to play with that.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT