WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2001
Nathalie Tauziat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Are you planning to come back to Wimbledon next year?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  No.

Q.  How do you feel, this being your last Wimbledon?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  It's the last one, that's it.  I mean, one day it's the last one.  That's the day. 

Q.  And how do you feel you played?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, I mean, I didn't play players who play like her, I mean, since long time.  The first few game, I was late on everything.  I start to play only at 5-1.  I play incredible tennis for four games.  At 5-All, I just said, "Oh, good."  I just think that for two second, and I lost two game, 7-5. 

Q.  What do you think generally of the bigger physique that seems to be coming into the women's game?  Do you think the best players from now on are always going to be the bigger women, taller?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  No, not necessarily.  They are like they are.  I'm like this.  You have Justine Henin who is different.  You have some players who are different.  But physically, I mean, maybe we don't compete in the same level, that's it.  But they are strong physically.  But I think some other players have better technique and they compensate. 

Q.  Do you think Venus will win again or do you think somebody else will win - Henin, for example?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Maybe.  I mean, is still some players there.  I mean, everybody have to play their best tennis now.  Davenport can win.  Williams can win.  Henin can win.  Who is the other one?  Capriati can win, or Clijsters.  The match is not done. 

Q.  Are you disillusioned with the sport?  You've been making critical comments.  Are you worried that  drug cheats are --

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  I'm not answer about that.  I don't talk anymore about that.

Q.  Why, because you deny what you said before?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Because I say what I have to said.  Some English newspaper transform everything, so I don't want to talk anymore about that. 

Q.  So it was inaccurate as far as you're concerned?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  (No verbal response.)

Q.  Do you think that tennis has become too obsessed with fashion and trivia; people don't concentrate enough on the quality of the tennis?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, everybody knows exactly what I think about it.  I write a book and I said everything in my book.  If you want to know, you translate what I said in my book.

Q.  We have.  It is interesting because this is a very reflective day for you, your 16th and final appearance at Wimbledon. 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, you know what I'm thinking, exactly.  It's not because it's my last day.  I say that last year.  It's not because it's my last Wimbledon.  It's my last Wimbledon.  Someday I have to stop my career, my professional career.  I'm not going to say I stop because everything is transform in tennis.  I mean, that's the way it is today.  That's it. 

Q.  But are you disillusioned with the game of tennis?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  No, not disillusioned.  If I be disillusioned, I don't play anymore. 

Q.  Are the Williams sisters good for tennis? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  For the game, I'm not sure.  But for everything else, yes, yes. 

Q.  When you say "maybe not for the game"? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  I mean, for technique, no, I don't think so.  But for power tennis, yes.  They are the best maybe, with Capriati and Davenport and some of the players. 

Q.  What about like with their father, the kind of persona that they give off in the locker room, kind of distant from the rest of the tour?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  What do you want me to say?  What do you want to write tomorrow?  Which newspaper are you?

Q.  I'm with the Dallas Morning News.  

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, you know what I think about that.  I mean, everybody knows.  That's fine with me. 

Q.  But we are persisting in asking your opinion because this is your last appearance at the most famous tennis tournament in the world. 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  I don't. 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  I want to talk about my match.  I don't want to talk about anything else. 

Q.  Do you feel that your serve let you down today?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Yes.

Q.  That was the biggest problem?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Yes. 

Q.  In what way would you say the Williamses are a problem for the game in terms of technique?  What are their flaws or weaknesses? 

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  I mean, they compensate  -- they don't have really  -- like the forehand is I think a weaker problem of them maybe.  Backhand is very good, both of them.  Serve is good.  Second serve is not good.  First serve is good. 

Q.  Are they too dependent on the power elements of their game?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Well, yeah, yeah.  Maybe, yeah.  They are powerful.  I think that's make difference today between her and me. 

Q.  Were you trying to put Venus off by coming very far forward for her second serve?

NATHALIE TAUZIAT:  Yeah.  That was one of the tactic.  But if I serve much better today, maybe I have more chance.  But I didn't.  I think I return good today on the second serve, and some first, too, but not all the time. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT