CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF SANEX WTA TOUR
November 15, 2000
Nathalie Tauziat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Amy said she thought your serve was a big key to the match; what do you think?  
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:   I think she's true.  I served pretty well today.  At the beginning I struggled a little bit, but after, I served pretty well.  And when my serve worked, the match was almost over.  I served pretty well and from the baseline.  I was consistent, too, and I played a really good match today. 
 
Q.  You've had very competitive matches with her in the past.  What were your thoughts going into this match?  Were you pretty confident?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:   No.  I wasn't pretty confident.  I know it's going to be tough against Amy, because she beat me four times; I beat her four times.  Every time, it was a close match.  But I was confident because the last two years, I played well here, and she come back, she played here for the second time only, and I was more confident than that.  But today, I played very good tactic and good match. 
 
Q.  What do you have to do to be successful against Martina and do you enjoy playing Martina? 
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:   Well, yes.  I enjoy to play Martina, but I prefer to play her later, but I play her in the quarterfinal here.  I always enjoy to play Martina, because I like her game and she like my game.  So, it is always a fun match to watch.  But I hope to serve better than at Philadelphia last week.  Just enjoy the match and try to play my best tennis.  And if she beats me, she is better than me.  And maybe if I play my best tennis, I have a chance, because I played her in Zurich two years ago and I lost only 6-3 in the third.  So maybe if I play my best tennis, I have a chance. 
 
Q.  In general, do you feel like your game flows from your serve when you are serving?  Like today, you start off a little slow on the serve, but once you picked it up, it seemed like everything came together?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:   When I served well, I return well, too, and my game is very consistent.  If I serve like I served today, I can follow at the net pretty good.  And I have some good volleys that helped me a lot. 
 
Q.  Is the surface faster today than  --
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT:   Yes, it's faster and the bounce is different.  In Philadelphia, the bounce was high, and here it is  -- I mean, it's like on grass a little bit here.  It's good. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT