US OPEN
September 3, 2000
Nathalie Tauziat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Nathalie.  
 
 
Q.  Now that you've finally beaten Aranxta, twelve matches in eleven years, can we bring Steffi out of retirement and see if you can win that first match from her?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT: I don't think she's gonna be interested to hear about that.  She have another life now.  (Laughing.) 
 
Q.  What is the feeling like after so many years of frustration against her to finally beat her?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Well, it's nice to beat Aranxta.  Aranxta is one of the best players since ten years, and it's always nice to beat a player like this.  I have a lot of respect for her, and she's very  -- she's a fighter.  She have a good spirit on the court.  To beat her, for me today, it's really a good result.  
 
Q.  How do you explain your inability to beat her all these years? Does she just match up well against your game?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT: My game is there, and I play pretty good.  I'm confident, the surface is fast.  I'm confident. I play good right now, and that's why.  I mean I'm mentally different than ten years ago, my game also.  And I have the game to beat her today.  
 
Q.  What did you do so well today that allowed you to win?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT: I served good.  I play good tactic.  And I play some good, aggressive tennis, good volley.  
 
Q.  Venus Williams?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Oh, yeah.  
 
Q.  You played four times but not since 1998.  You won two; she's won two.  She might have maybe a little bit more trouble with a very experienced player like yourself.  What do you think?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT: I just have to play my match, my game, focus on my game and not to be focus about everything else.  
 
Q.  How do you attack a player like Venus, especially on her serve, when she's serving so strong now?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT: Well, she serves strong but she makes some double-fault, too.  You have to try to disturb her.  I have a good return.  I'm gonna try to return her serve and be  -- play my game.  That's it.  
 
Q.  Is it absolutely essential for you to get to the net in order to beat her?
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT: In order to what? 
 
Q.  To beat her, defeat her.
 
NATHALIE TAUZIAT: I just have to play my game.  If I play my game like I did tonight and like I did the last two weeks, I have my chance.  If she play better than me and she beat me, it's okay.  It's no big deal.  I just have to play my tennis and be concentrate on my tennis and nothing else.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT