LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 25, 2017
Skip Holtz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UTSA - 6, Louisiana Tech - 20
Q. Coach, I don't know what it is, the feeling right now with the team, the fans, probably the most complete game we've played all year.
COACH HOLTZ: Oh, no, no.  Definitely defensively, defensively, oh, my gosh, what an incredible effort.  They got down in there on that goal line and they wouldn't give in.  They just kept banging that rock and really proud of them, Robertson came up with a huge interception down there after the one turnover but defensively, it was our best effort of the year.  I mean, statistically, just the togetherness, the energy, the way everybody was into it.
Offensively, probably one of the worst passing performances in the history of college football.  When you look at passing performance.  But you know what, I thought the offensive line did a great job with the running game.  They changed some things after the first couple series and made a couple little adjustments but I thought the way Boston Scott ran, tough little son of a gun.  He just keeps competing and really proud of what he was able to do tonight on the offensive line.
Like I said, I thought the defense was the real hero of this game the way the defense stood up on these goal line stands was huge.
Q. You've got a 6-4 wide receiver -- 5-9, you knew the play was coming but he timed the jump perfect.
COACH HOLTZ: He really did a great job.  You look at Amik, and he may be a little bit shorter than that guy if you put him on a height (ph), but if you put vertical jumps and competitive nature and heart, I'll take our chances with Amik Robertson.  He's such a great competitor.  He's got great ball skills.
He had a couple of those opportunities earlier this year where you know, maybe he just batted it away or wasn't able to make the play, but he was able to go up and make that one, which was absolutely huge, because that was right after the turnover.  We fumbled the punt and all of a sudden you give them an opportunity to get into it.  Just like I said, great individual effort on his part but great performance by our defense and our defensive staff.
Q. The offense, still a one-possession game and really needed to pick up some first downs and you were able to do that because this offense, you told me you would be lucky to get eight positions and around seven or eight, you were exactly right.  Their drives took nine minutes.
COACH HOLTZ: Yeah, we kept talking about it, even at half-time.  I think we had the ball four times.  Like, golly, guys, feel like we haven't done anything as an offense, we've only punted twice and didn't have a turnover the first half.
So you just take the air out of it, they play a low-scoring game and we were prepared to come in here and do that.  We made a foolish interception early in the third quarter and then we dropped that punt and put our defense in two bad field positions.
But outside of those two field positions, like I said, I thought our defense kept competing.  Offensively, though, the end of the game, as bad as it was passing, I they were 7-of-21 in the completion percentage, somewhere in there.  But at the end of the game, you know what we needed to make some first downs.  We ran the ball every down.  Boston Scott, Jaqwis Dancy, the offensive line, they were in zero coverage.  Safeties were downhill, extra hats everywhere, but boy, they did a great job.
Q. The seniors, just seemed to be a lot more energy, you came through Senior Night, sometimes can be really emotional.  You could feel that energy throughout the team?
COACH HOLTZ: This senior class is really special.  You look at what these guys have accomplished and what they have done, you talk about guys like Seddrick Cooper, Deldrick Canty, you go through some of these guys, Jarred Craft, Boston Scott, these guys have been here for four years and have played major roles for us in the last three years, and then to come out here and to think that, you know what, this was going to be their last opportunity, they were going to make the most of it.  Just really proud what they were able to do tonight.
Q. The kicker, you know what, it's senior night -- 53 yards.
COACH HOLTZ: They had asked me before, you know what, really, where do you feel good with John.  And I said, you know, I feel really comfortable, really 55, but I'd try 60.  I told him that earlier in the week when we had tried the 64-yarder at Southern Miss and just missed it by about a yard or two, and then all of a sudden I look up there and somebody said, punt them in the hole.  And I thought, punt them, no, I'm thinking field goal.  You know, your money where your mouth is.  You said that you felt comfortable with John Barnes and you said you believed in him and you had an opportunity to go up two scores and I thought that was huge points on the board.
Q. Now it's in the hands of all the Bowl committees out there.  6-6, Bowl eligible, a lot of teams left to play but now it's just in the hands of committees.
COACH HOLTZ: Yeah, I certainly hope, I certainly hope this team has that opportunity.  I know with all the close games that they have had, there's been two games that really we got beat.  I mean, but every other game, when you look at it, we have been in it.   These guys compete.  They work hard and for this senior class, I would love to have it.  I mean, selfishly I want those extra practices for the young players to have the opportunity to have another spring practice for the development and the growth of this team moving forward.
But I really want to see these seniors have an opportunity to go enjoy a Bowl game.  They have worked extremely hard.  They have put a lot of time, effort and energy into this program and be a great way to say thank you.  But it's Thanksgiving weekend, there's so much to be grateful for, so much to be thankful for and I'm excited to have the opportunity to work with these guys.  Appreciate the people that showed up tonight.  I know the students are out of school and it makes it a hard draw, but I really appreciate the people that took their Thanksgiving Saturday and came out here and supported the senior class and this football team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT