BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2016
Raegan Pebley
Zahna Medley
Veja Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 81, TCU - 64
THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by the Horned Frogs from TCU, head Coach, Raegan Pebley and her two student-athletes, Veja Hamilton and Zahna Medley.  Coach, your opening thoughts about tonight's game?
COACH PEBLEY: Well, you know, Kansas absolutely deserved this win and we absolutely did not, playing Kansas the times that we've played them prior to this game, watching them it was always shocking to me that they hadn't won a game.
They played very hard.  They played good defense, you know.  They just had gone through scoring droughts, and the last two games that we've played against Kansas I feel like they didn't have those droughts.  They were very disciplined, they executed well and we did not.
We did not deserve to win this game, unfortunately, I wish I could say differently, but we just did not come out and sustain the level of effort that was going to be required to play a team as disciplined as Kansas.
THE MODERATOR: We will take questions for our student-athletes.
Q. Coach Schneider was talking about getting quality shots close to the basket.  Defensively you played them so soon, so recently, twice before, the adjustments they made to get the quality shots they did down low.
ZAHNA MEDLEY: We just didn't play principle defense and jump to defense when they were passing.  Just didn't play hard in general.
Q. For Veja, how difficult is it to face the same team in back-to-back games?
VEJA HAMILTON: It can be tough to get multiple wins against a team that you see several times, but at the same time playing them multiple time we should have known what they were going to do, and we did know when they were going to do and we just didn't execute.  The focus wasn't there and that showed tonight.
THE MODERATOR: Okay, ladies, thank you very much.  Best of luck.  Questions for Coach?  Coach, any thoughts about your postseason ahead, where you guys go from here?
COACH PEBLEY: Well, I'm fairly certain it will be the WNIT.  It's different than last year when we were in this situation.  But, you know, the Big 12 I know will be heavily represented in both tournaments, so it's going to be important for us to emotionally respond and then also physically get better from this game, because we have a great opportunity moving forward.
But, you know, opportunities -- you can either use 'em or waste 'em and we've got to have a mindset as a team that we're going to really use this opportunity, to end the season with some momentum, but I think it also creates momentum going into your next season as well.
Q. Did you expect them to maybe crack a little?  They talked about how many times they've been in the second half and fourth quarter with leads.
COACH PEBLEY: Yeah, especially second round they've been in that situation quite a bit.  They had Amy Okonkwo down the last two minutes and, you know, they've been just very competitive.  We've played them three times I think in 14 days, and that's, I think, a big challenge, I don't care who you're playing, but especially BCS-level talent three times in 14 days is especially hard.  I think especially for the team that won.  But it is what it is and there's no excuses.  You've got to find ways.  We just did not find enough ways to get those stops.
The way we shot today, too, was just atrocious.  From the free-throw line we're one of the best free-throw shooting teams in our conference and we're be 17 for 29 in the first half, that was to me, evidence even more so of where our focus was, that we were missing, you know, shots that we shoot at about 80%, and then missing layups, I think is deflating, too, first half missed layups and Kansas was converting on those opportunities, and they just continued to build momentum because they got to the foul line and hit.  They got to the paint and converted.  So they had momentum from the opening tip and sustained it.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Coach.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT