ITALIAN OPEN
May 30, 2018
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The Italian Open, a golf course you know exceptionally well.  How pleased and proud are you to be playing here in a big tournament, the Rolex Series Event, a course you grew up on?  
MATTEO MANASSERO: I'm pleased and proud.  Those are the right words because I've been here when I was 4 and when I was 10 to watch The Italian Open and always dreamed of being here as a professional playing in it.   
So I'm proud that I'm here, proud for what I've done these few years, and really pleased that I'm here, really pleased that the Italian Open is here.  I really hope everybody is going to enjoy it; I will, that's the way I want to go about this week, but enjoying it, so I'm pleased.   
 Q.  What kind of golf is going to be needed on this golf course to shoot low this week?  
MATTEO MANASSERO: Driving the ball straight.  I would say it's the key.  Once you're in the fairway, then you can get a lot of birdie chances in this course, so I would say if the course firms up, which I think it will be, because the weather is supposed to improve during the week, it's going to be tough.  Otherwise, you'll see a lot of low scores.   
 Q.  How do you think your game is in terms of the shape of the game at the moment, Wentworth last week?  Did you come out of that with any great positives in what was a tough week for most people?  
MATTEO MANASSERO: Wentworth is always a tough week.  I did come out with some good things for myself.  Starting the tournament, I played bad on Thursday and then when the week increased.  I had two really good rounds that was before Wentworth what I was looking for.  A 66 and 68 at Wentworth is always good.   
Yeah, I'm positive.  The Italian Open is always a different week for us, but the game is in good shape and I'm feeling better.   
 Q.  It was five years ago, seems like five minutes, since you won at Wentworth but how nice was it to see an Italian winner in Francesco Molinari.  
MATTEO MANASSERO: It was amazing.  He was like a machine, what most of the times he is, but this time is was really incredible.  I always thought Wentworth and The French Open were two tournaments that he deserved to win before and before the end of his career he was always going to win because of his game and because he came so close and this time he closed it out in great style.  That last round, third and last round, they were unbelievable.  There's not many words to describe it apart from really incredible.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT