VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2014
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bounced back with another solid round.   You're in good position after 36 holes.   You have to be pretty happy with two days work of worth.  
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah, I'm really happy.   I just had so solid rounds of golf and today I put some really solid shots in.   Didn't miss many and obviously I could have done a little better on the greens but, you know, as a start, I'm really happy and the game stands in a good position.   
So, I'm looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Nine birdies through two days.   That's tops for everybody that's at least played in two rounds.   These greens have been pretty tricky.   How have you found the greens to be?  
MATTEO MANASSERO:   The greens are tough.   The greens are quite fast and little grainy and not easy to get the reads most of the times and you get some short putts that they break straight away.   You might sometimes don't want to take it off the hole, aim off the hole but the putt just breaks so much straight away because of the grain and the fast greens and that's it.   
I think we'll see -- I personally missed four five-footers in these two days, but I mean I guess everybody is going to do that because the greens really are difficult.  
   
 Q.   You've grown up playing against some of the best in this country and a lot of international competitions and world tournaments and things of that nature.   
When you see a lot of guys, Americans who are young, your peers winning over here, does it inspire you to come over here and keep trying to get your first PGA TOUR win?  
MATTEO MANASSERO:   That will be something amazing.   I come over here because, you know, the tournament gives me the chance to come here and play, which is a privilege, and so I just come and I just come and play golf.  
You know, I did play a bit of amateur golf here, not a lot because I never went to college but I played with Jordan, for example, I played with some of the guys.   
It's just different, you know.   Now we're here and we've got different things in the U.S., in the World Golf Championships and Majors.   All of us are standing in a really good position.   I'm happy to be here in the U.S. beginning this week.   
After this it's going to be back to -- back home for awhile and come back here.   It's just -- I play a little everywhere.   
   
 Q.   PGA TOUR for the fourth consecutive week.   How pleased are you?  
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I'm very pleased.   It's been, as I said, in general, it's been really nice trip to the U.S. and this week, you know, I got into this week really trying to finish this U.S. stretch in the best possible way and my game is supporting me, it's solid.   I played well last two days.   I'm -- I started well, try and finish well.  
   
 Q.   Played this golf course three years ago, finished tied for 20th.   What about this place fits your eye, you know, fits your game?  
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah.   I was doing really well after two days last time I was here as well.   I just really like it.   It suits my game.   Off the tee it's not always driver but you can actually take driver even if you have the tighter holes to gain advantage over the field and I like courses like that, courses that make you think, especially with this wind swirling around the trees, under the trees, it's not easy to pull the right club.   
Greens are tough.   So I mean it's the kind of golf course that obviously good for precise, for accurate play and that's what I like the most.  
   
 Q.   Can you please just talk about your round a little bit, four nice birdies, one slip?  
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Good round of golf.   Really just means that shot on 13 I really hit a poor tee shot and ended up short in the water and then I missed the 5-footer to save bogey.   Yeah, it was a solid round of golf.   That was the only one.  
That's what you need on a golf course like this.   It forces you to hit in the right spot.   It's not easy to be on top of your game all the time and today was just one of those days that things were going right.   I'm really pleased with my round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT