VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 10, 2014
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MATTEO MANASSERO:   The conditions out there are pretty difficult.   It's blowing fairly hard and obviously from a completely different direction from yesterday, which I think it makes the course a little bit easier.   I mean, it's easier to get into your rhythm in the first few holes going downwind, and you don't have such a demanding tee shot. 
But then it gets really tough toward the end and you definitely have to hit some good drives out there, and keep the ball in play.   It's not easy.   I mean, as soon as you hit a bit of a loose swing, most of the times‑‑ there's no margin of error which makes it really interesting but it's also stressful.

Q.   Given it's the start of the year, are there a few more loose swings and rusty ones in there?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah, there was today, especially off the tee.   As soon as I go down in the fairway or wherever else, it feels really, really good actually and I'm really happy about that, and around the greens, it's been great. 
To start the season like that with new equipment, new ball, new sand wedge, it might have been difficult but it's been really easy.   Today I scrambled well and made some good putts for birdie.   If I can sort those loose swings that I've been doing a few times on the tee, always with the same wind direction really, maybe I'll have a chance Sunday. 
But I've got some time to practice this afternoon and definitely the guy that is going to win is the guy that is going to stay the most on the fairways.

Q.   Sounds like there's quite a few adjustments to be made, changing clubs and all sorts of things to start the year. 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah, the changes, it doesn't worry me at all.   Really the adjustment has been quick and I'm happy with what I've seen.   Honestly all the bad shots and the unplayable lies I took, they were just for my swing.   And the biggest change, it might have been the ball, but I'm very happy the way this ball reacts on the wind in tough conditions like this.   So there's only one adjustment really, and that's a few pushes with the driver. 

Q.   Do you make resolutions, different target, different aims? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   No, I think it stays the same.   Obviously so far, it's been year after year, very good and successful.   I've been having a win every year, and I know it's going to be hard to keep that up, but I think that's my goal really.   I'm going to have such a long career, and also many more years ahead of me and it's not easy to keep it up year after year.   So I'm ready for whatever is going to happen, but I am positive from what I've seen out there these two days.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT