SEVE TROPHY BY GOLF+
October 5, 2013
Miguel Angel Jimenez
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How determined were you to win this one? 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ:   I wanted to contribute to my team something, and a lot of determination, focus was the things coming today. 

Q.   You're a huge idol of Seve Ballesteros growing up and now you're out there with this Spanish legend, how special is a day like this? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Really special.   He took me under his wing last night when we knew we were going to be paired together, and it was a great day.   He played really well and playing beside a guy like Miguel gives you nice confidence.   You know he's there and you know he's going to do well, so in foursomes, it's a very good thing. 

Q.   You're going to be out together again this afternoon and we thought you might be rested.   Did you bully Ollie or did he bully you? 
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ:   He bullied me.   I say, hey, you going to let your senior guy here on the team, you going to let him walk all the rounds.
He said, what, you okay, you're here for that.   No, it's nice to contribute to the team as much as I can for the team, and playing well, I feel solid.   And with Matteo again, beautiful hands as you've seen around the greens, magnificent, and we hope this afternoon we can contribute with another point. 

Q.   What's your verdict on that victory? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Well, we were both really happy.   I mean, we wanted to bring that point home, especially myself after yesterday.   It was hard to lose like that without really deserving to lose, because we played really solid yesterday.   But match play in golf, especially is like that.   Today we wanted revenge, and we played solid; we didn't make so many birdies but we didn't lose many shots, that was the most important thing.
I think we can do even better this afternoon, if I can sort a few things in my game out.   Miguel is playing really solid so it's great to play well. 

Q.   Do you get used to the tension on 18? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Well, you're always tense.   You have to hit it there.   That's your only chance.   So I could potentially have another put to win the match, a similar putt to the other day, but I'm always coming down to 18.   If I can skip that this afternoon, it would be a nice thing. 

Q.   A nice partnership; do you dovetail quite neatly the way your games are? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah, I feel really good personally with Miguel.   He's a really strong player.   You always feel like you have somebody that is going to recover the situation, even if you don't hit a perfect shot.   It's great and plus we have got a similar game.   So we understand our game with each other, and I think that's a key in foursome to be as close as possible and feel like a single pretty much.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT