ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2013
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you make of this field and this event this year?  
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It's fantastic. The Scottish Open deserves a very strong field, and it always gets it.   So I'm personally happy to be here, and to be able to compete against a strong field, I think that's always nice.   
   
 Q.   There's a stellar field of players gathered here at Castle Stuart for this week's Scottish Open, plenty of hope for a home winner perhaps but also a strong international field.   What do you make of the strength of field this week?  
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I think it's fantastic.   We have a great field.   It's great for players and it's great for The Scottish Open.   It deserves a stellar field, as you said, and it always gets it.   
So I am really happy to be here at Castle Stuart and to be competing against some great players.   So it's going to be fun.  
   
 Q.   What do you make of the course and the challenges, the links challenge?   
MATTEO MANASSERO:   The course, it's a nice course.   Not that difficult off the tees, but then it becomes really tricky around the greens.   With the great weather that we are getting‑‑ it's going to be tricky around the greens, and if you can get your driver in shape, if you can hit the ball quite a long way, it helps.   But you've got to be sharp around the greens.  
   
 Q.   How important is it playing seaside golf on a links the week before The Open?   
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It's very important.   It's very important because you have got the same ground.   You can kind of train the mental attitude that you need to get on links courses.   You know, without even thinking so much about it, you just kind of get in the mood of links golf.   That's going to be really important.   You don't want to get to the week of The Open having to think about that, as well.   
It just needs to be easy and done already, and you just have to focus on your game and try to get in shape and you have to know how links golf plays before going into the Open.  
   
 Q.   How does your attitude change when you are playing links golf?   What is the mood, as you put it?   
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I would say you need to put more fantasy in your game and imagine more shots than usual.   After imagining those shots, you need to be able to perform them and reproduce them.   That's about practise and that's about getting that touch to sharpen up.   
But the mental attitude is just you've got different ways to put the ball close on links golf, high, low, and you know, running to the pin.   So there is many different ways to play.   It's just a matter of figuring out which one is the right one in the right moment, and then do it.   
   
 Q.   It's fun, isn't it?  
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It's a lot of fun, because there's so many other things, rather than just pull the club and hit it and make it stop by the pin.   You can do different things, especially in the wind blows.  
   
 Q.   Last time we spoke, you just won the playoff against Simon Khan to lift the flagship trophy of The European Tour.   Wonder how life has changed for you, I guess sort of insight as a golfer, as someone who is a competitor; what has it done for you?  
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Gave me a lot of confidence, first of all, and then, you know, I felt so proud of what I've done winning the Flagship Event, and that was it.   
Then I tried to kind of forget it straightaway to keep going and moving with the golf that I had to play, and that was really important.   But after that, you know, when I look back at it, it's been the most amazing week of my life, and to be able to win that event, it was a real honour.   And to my point of view, just to my mind, it gave me a lot of confidence that I can do well in those very big events with strong fields.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT