BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2013
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A round of 3‑under par today, how pleased are you with that?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Pleased.   Obviously it was the easiest of the days so far, so I was expecting guys to go low and make many birdies and shoot good rounds.   But the course still is in difficult conditions.   It's quite soft, actually.   It was playing quite soft and it was not that easy to adapt. 
I'm pleased with 3‑under par.   Obviously I could have used the last two par 5s to make a couple nice shots, but it's still the third day.   I'm happy with 69 and looking forward to tomorrow. 

Q.   Two years ago, you co‑led into the final round here, didn't work out for you on that occasion; do you feel with two years more experience, you're better equipped now to handle it? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Probably yes.   I will still feel the pressure.   Still I'm right there; I'm contending.   This is the same‑‑ I'm having the same feelings I had two years ago.   I was confident and I knew I could have done well, so hopefully tomorrow's going to work out better. 

Q.   What do you make of your position? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I'm pleased to be where I am, 7‑under par, the way I was playing coming in this week, one shot off the lead, it's a good feeling.   I'm happy with that, and about tomorrow, I'm just looking forward to getting out there.   It's a pleasure, it's an honour to be competing in our main event, so I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.   Two years ago, you were co‑leader with Luke Donald going into the last round.   What will you do differently now that you're a much older man at age 20? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I'll be able to think about my game and only my game more, so focus on it, focus on trying and making birdies, instead of just trying not to lose shots.   I think that's something that I've learned and something that I can bring into tomorrow. 
But every day, it's different, and it's not really the same situation.   So we'll see what experiences I can bring tomorrow. 

Q.   For those that haven't seen you over the last few weeks, this is a lean, mean, Matteo.   You've lost six kilos or something like that working out.   How is that playing out with your swing and how much better do you feel about things?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I feel better myself.   It was work that I had to do to become a more complete athlete and I'm happy that I've done it.   My swing has been affected a little bit at the beginning, because you're lighter and so things work out in a different way.   But I've pretty much adapted now and made this change about four months ago and now feels stronger. 

Q.   After the first couple of days with the conditions so bad, how nice is it to be able to play in weather like this? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It was nice, it was so bad, especially yesterday, and it turned into a nice day.   This feels like a completely different place and it feels great. 

Q.   Speaking of different, Saturday is different than Sunday.   Did you know where you were on the leaderboard today and feel the need to perhaps try to get into that final group for Sunday's run? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah, I wasn't really concentrating much to get into the final group.   It's still Saturday, so just about getting yourself and putting yourself in position to be able to do something here tomorrow.   I'm in a good position, probably one, two off the lead. 
So, I'm pleased.   I'm pleased with where I am.   Again, I didn't play that well, so I hope tomorrow can be my best game and I can bring my AGame out and hopefully do something nice. 

Q.   A couple of years ago, you shared the 54‑hole lead with Luke and he went on to win.   How will tomorrow's experience be different than one a couple of years ago for you? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It will be a different day.   Things have changed and I've learned a lot.   Probably what I can bring with myself tomorrow is that I will be able to focus much more in my game and not think about anything else, not think about losing shots, and think of making birdies.   That's probably the experience that I'm going to bring and I will be able to do it better. 

Q.   How close is your A Game? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It's very close, because, you know, it's in between A and B.   Sometimes I hit some very good shots.   Sometimes off the tee, I lose it a little bit and I hit some poor ones.   It's the way it is.   It's a course that brings you to the limit off the tee, especially, because you know that you have to put that ball in a certain position. 
But you know, hopefully I can get some practise now in ten, 15 minutes that I can bring into tomorrow.   I finished playing really well, so if I can keep up those feelings, it would be nice.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT