VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 12, 2013
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MATTEO MANASSERO:   Definitely the putter made a lot of difference, and I made the putts I had to make, apart from the last hole, which I didn't make a good opportunity for birdie, but that's all.   That's what you have to do on this course, you have to find your chances, make them, and then you make a good round.

Q.   And what's led to that improvement on the greens? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Just maybe I got more comfortable reading them.   They are a bit difficult to read.   After the rain, I think they improved a little bit.   The grass is more green, and the ball jumps a little less. 
So I just got more comfortable, that's all.   My putting stroke, I worked on it the last two days, so it has improved. 

Q.   Is there an element, as well, of first tournament of the year, so just getting some rust out of the system and getting into it? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   For sure.   The first day was very rusty for me, for I think 90 per cent of us.   But it's normal.   It's a great event that we play here, just for that, because we play four straight rounds, maybe with a little less pressure than normal.   And so it's perfect for us to just get relaxed and get the rhythm, tournament rhythm, going. 

Q.   You're here as one of the champions from the back end of last year, what are your thoughts into 2013?   Are you the kind of guy that makes a resolution or has particular aims?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Not really.   I would like to finish 2013 into the Top‑50 of the World Rankings.   That's my goal, really to, make that with the competition that there is now of so many guys that plays well, you must win a tournament.   Or, play really, really stable for the whole season. 
So I think that would be a great goal, just to maybe improve the ranking but stay in the Top‑50 and get all the majors next year, as well.

Q.   Here you're certainly giving yourself a chance of a very nice finish?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Today, after the third round, I find myself sixth, so I think I'm going to probably maybe stay in the Top‑10 at the end of the day and then tomorrow, if I can keep this rhythm that I had today going, it will be great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT