UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 17, 2012
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Five threes in a row, 30 shots on the back nine, how was the round? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It was a fantastic round on the front nine.   I played well throughout the whole round.   Yesterday I struggled a little bit in my long game.   I couldn't really have many chances, but I had a really good practise yesterday and today I have to say, I struck the ball really well.   I had plenty of chances, and in the back nine, I really had some short putts, too, for birdie, and I made a few good ones.   You know, it's just a really, really good round. 

Q.   Do you have some memories from last week where you took the lead going into the final round; seems like everything is coming together. 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah, everything is coming together. 
Last week really made me relax a lot on the golf course, and these three rounds and my position coming into this Sunday, are certainly due to last week and what happened last week.   I've got more freedom. 
I'm just more relaxed on the golf course, and I take it the way it comes.   It's going really well now because everything, even the game is coming together.   So I have to say, it's a great moment. 

Q.   Seems that you're not only playing very relaxed but you're enjoying very much having fun out there. 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Of course, of course.   Being relaxed, you can have fun in very good moments.   When you're really tense, you kind of go so down when you're not playing well that you can't really enjoy the good moments. 
Right now I'm relaxed and I've got freedom on the golf course, so I can enjoy when things come together well like this back nine. 

Q.   I thought you were meant to be tired?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Well, as I said to you as well, I like this course, I like this place.   So I was going to give it the most energies I had, and that's what it's been about.   And even because of last week and because of the way I'm approaching this week and everything, I'm not spending so many energies. 
That's really how I should play golf every week, you know, just the way I've been playing this week.   The game has been good but it has not been as good as last week.   But still, I'm able to compete because I'm just relaxed in what I'm doing. 

Q.   And yet I presume once you've holed one putt, you move up the board, the adrenaline kicks in, as well, so that helps. 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah, of course, that helps with the energies.   And I agree, you know, coming into the first two rounds, I didn't have so much adrenaline and not even in this front nine. 
But then when I started doing a few birdies, gaining some shots, of course the adrenaline kicked in and the energy levels came up again. 
So it's normal and I'm happy that I'm on top of‑‑ close to the leaders again this week to try to give it another chance, because I'm enjoying these moments now.

Q.   Any indication what's needed, final day? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I'm not sure.   I'm not sure what's going to be needed for me but probably depends on how they finish, but I think around 13, 14 would be good. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT