UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 14, 2012
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL SYMES:     Thanks for joining us, congratulations again on your win last week.   What has the reaction been like from the other players? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It's been a lot of congratulating.   I'm very happy to hear them all.   Of course it's always a very nice feeling when everybody comes to you and says congratulations.   It was fun to watch. 
So I mean, it's great.   It's great that it was a good, fun last day; it was for me, but I'm happy is that it was from everyone else.
PAUL SYMES:   What about Rory, did you get much congratulations from him? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I just saw him.   We are playing together.   We'll have time to speak about that.   Let's just say we both owe each other a drink. 
PAUL SYMES:   Fair enough.   It's often quite difficult to follow up a win and play well the next week, especially after such a tiring day on Sunday.   How are you feeling kind of physically and mentally? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I was feeling a little tired today.   I had all Monday to rest, which was important yesterday.   I took a good look at the front nine.
And today I was a little tired, but in the afternoon, I'm not doing much.   I'm happy I was playing in the morning so I could rest a little bit in the afternoon. 
Obviously, especially last week, to win a tournament takes a lot of energies out, but especially a week like that, it was extremely tiring.   So of course, it has been an adjustment a little bit and I need to save for the rest, for these next four days and for Dubai some energies. 
But I'm feeling well about this course.   I like it.   I've played well here in 2010.   And it suits my game.   So I think for a week in which I could be a little bit tired at the end of the week, it's a good course. 
PAUL SYMES:   And you climbed up to 13th on The Race to Dubai on the back of your win.   So I guess the aim now is to get in the Top‑10 this week and next? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah, of course.   If we can add another goal to the end of the season, mine was finishing in the Top‑30 and that's done. 
So that's great.   But if I can add another one, it would be nice to try and get the Top‑10.   That would be a big achievement.   That would be a really, really big achievement.   Especially coming three weeks to the end, coming 33 or 34th like I was, that was tough.   I couldn't imagine I would even come close to do it, and now I am; I still can do it.   That's the goal, obviously, not really any pressure.   If it comes, yes; if it doesn't, it's been a good season, anyway. 

Q.   Any aspects of your game‑‑ how will you attack the course this week? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   This week I think the key is to hit fairways, because of the rough that there is around the fairways doesn't allow you to hit the ball close. 
So I mean, the iron play has to be good, as every week, but you're hitting many short irons, so your distance, accuracy in distance, it's very important.   But if you don't hit fairways, you're not having many enough birdie chances to take them. 
So I think that's the key.   And putting, as always.   Putting, it's going to get you to the top of the leaderboard. 

Q.   Playing with Rory and looking at Rory, what kind of things could you learn from him?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I think many.   I can't tell you which ones really, because I always think‑‑ when I think of Rory, I think of just an impossible, really, game to‑‑ an impossible game to kind of imitate.   It's only his.   He's so good.   He plays probably the best game in the world, so it's difficult to imitate. 
But what is good of him, it's that he's got a great game and he's always ahead of almost everybody when he comes into a week, but still is able to concentrate and score well, which is a difficult thing.   That's why I think he's No. 1 in the world.   I mean, his game has been No. 1 in the world for a while now, but has been able now to put the scores together every week, and that's what really is good about it, and what every player should look up to him for.

Q.   So is that consistency? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It's the consistency.   Sometimes in the past it was his putting that couldn't give him the scores, and well, something else then.   But I mean, he has really put everything together, and as I say, his game, it's unbelievably good. 
So everybody expects him to play perfect every week, and to score well every week, and that's not easy, even if you have the best game in the world.   And he's been able so far lately in the last probably two years to do that.   When he wants, he's always up there.   That's really tough. 

Q.   Have you played with Rory before in a tournament? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I think I can't remember exactly where and when.   So it wasn't really lately.   But I have played with Rory before. 

Q.   You said you've got a lot of sort of congratulations from the players here this week, but what about from outside of the Tour, any sort of special messages? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Well, I guess every one is special, but many, really many.   Probably the way this win came, it made more impact than the last two.   But I was very happy to receive all those compliments, especially after I wasn't really that happy before. 
So doing this and receiving all those compliments has been great is.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT