ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 5, 2012
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us the story of your round?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It was a very good round.   Everything was going the right direction, the way I wanted.   I played solid.   But that's what you have to do on this golf course, give yourself the most opportunities for birdies that you can, and I didn't feel like I putted that well, but I was solid and I made some of those chances. 

Q.   How important is it for you to have a really big weekend.   Is it fair to say that you've been slightly quiet of late? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah, of late, I've been quiet, yeah.   I've started the year really well with five Top‑10s and then the last few events I was playing well but still couldn't really score.   But this gives me confidence for doing a good week here.

Q.   Do you sneak a glance at the course and think about the Ryder Cup and think about how good it would be?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Certainly.   It's got everything, a great finish, a great start, and everything is very good on this golf course.   I feel really confident, I really like it and I'm sure it's going to be a special, super Ryder Cup. 

Q.   After the first round, anything that you have to work on, or is it an easy rest of the day for you?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Keep the good feelings, that's all I'm going to do.   I will keep practise and keep the good feelings and try to perform the same tomorrow. 

Q.   An excellent 66 today, since your game is in good shape, no bogeys, tell us about it. 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   My game is in good shape.   I've played a good round of golf.   I haven't missed many shots, and I made some of those opportunities that I had for birdies.   It was the best round you can have, because on this golf course, you can't stay too nervous or too tense because this course, if you don't play well, it makes you think about all of the mistakes that you can make. 

Q.   What's your personal opinion on this course?   Martin Kaymer says it's one of the best courses you play all year.   How much do you like it?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I really like it.   It's definitely one of the top courses we play, sometimes including Majors, as well. 
I really, really like it.   I feel confident on this course.   You have to hit the ball straight and keep it in play and be accurate with your iron distances.   It's going to be fantastic for The Ryder Cup. 

Q.   Plan this afternoon?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Plan is just to keep doing what I'm doing, trying to keep the feelings. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT