TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2016
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATTEO MANASSERO: I played really well.  I started on the greens not so well.  But then I got myself together and I made some really good putts.  I finished great holing a bunker shot on 10, which was a great bonus.  But yeah, overall it was a solid round and I'm obviously very happy to start that way.
Q. Sweeter to finish like that, as well, because that's one of the trickier holes on the course, isn't it?
MATTEO MANASSERO: I didn't play well at all.  I hit a driver right and I had a gap, hit it to the back of the green with a 4-iron and made the bunker shot.  So it was not really the normal way of making birdie but that's one way.
Q. Does that sum up the nature of this course whereby we know it's a resort but it's not the most straightforward of courses?
MATTEO MANASSERO: No, it's not an easy course.  If you play solid, if you hit it straight, then you're going to get a lot of birdie chances because the greens are receptive and they roll really good.
So that's the main thing.  Four or five metre's putt, 20, 25 feet, are actually makeable putts.  So you can hit the ball around that area many times and from there, you can score.
Q. Do you like it?
MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, it's a good course.  It's a really good course.  Played in amazing conditions.  So it's great to be here.
Q. I take it it's kind of nice to start The Final Series in such a lovely, relaxed venue?
MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, it's just perfect.  Great way to start The Final Series and yeah, couldn't be a better place.
Q. When you've had so many good, positive things across the course of the season, do you tell yourself, yeah, let's just finish in style, events like this?
MATTEO MANASSERO: Well, obviously I need to get some good scores in to be able to continue in The Final Series, and that's kind of the goal I set for myself.  It's not really a goal that I obsess myself about, but it's been a good season.  It's been a season of many solid things after a bad one.
So I'm happy to be here and I'm happy to have put a good round together.  I hope I'm going to keep going to keep going in The Final Series.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT