WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SCOTT CROCKETT:   Matteo, thank you for coming and joining us.   Well done today.   Very good play against Webb Simpson.   Give us your thoughts on the day as a whole and your performance.
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Thank you.   It was a very good match.   I wasn't playing that well, to be fair.   But started on my way, Webb wasn't playing as well me.   I was able to make a couple of birdies.   Webb started playing really well, making birdies, making putts.   I was able to make some important, very important putts.   And I think that was the key of this match. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:   How did you feel, were you nervous to start? 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Well, there is always something really nice here that doesn't give me that much tension.   And especially maybe having me go out with very, very good players.   Maybe‑‑ obviously with nothing to lose, it's just the first round and you go out and perform as well as you can, and that's what I did this year and last year, as well, with Steve.
So I wasn't tense.   I was really free and trying to do my best on every shot and ended up being good. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Another good day for Italy, with Francesco winning, as well. 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I haven't seen his match.   I'm curious, I think he came back on 18. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Yeah. 
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Yeah, it's really good for this flag. 

Q.   What was the most meaningful hole or the most significant putt that you felt?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   It was a really kind of big momentum, which I missed a really short putt on No. 10 to win the hole, not even for a foot. 
And then on 11, I made a good putt to halve the hole for birdie.
And 13, we were both six feet and we both made it.
Then on 14, I was in the bunker, just to get out of the bunker, and then I made an 18‑footer for par, and he was obviously going to make par easily, because he was on the green in regulation.
And then I made another kind of same length, 20‑footer on 15 for birdie.   And he missed his shorter putt.   And it was kind of a big momentum, which I kind of made only 1‑putts for five holes in a row, and there was the key.

Q.   You won two big matches last year, as well.   Do you change your game plan at all, going into this event when you're in the middle of a match?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   I don't really change my game or do anything different, but it just happens for me.   This week seems pretty special because, I don't know, it's kind of maybe my attitude changes a little bit and I should try and see what changes here and try to bring it on stroke play sometimes when I can't really make the score.   Like today without even paying‑‑ well, without even seeing them, I made like six or seven birdies.   And that sometimes doesn't happen to me on stroke play.   And I kind of struggle to make birdies.   Certainly something changes because I wasn't playing that well today.   And my attitude was spot on, and that's important.   So without doing something, just it gets better.

Q.   You talk about having nothing to lose, and all of a sudden you get up big early?
MATTEO MANASSERO:   Well, today's match was kind of strange that way because I started with the idea of not really much to lose and then I got a big lead, 3‑up after four holes.   And then you start thinking, well, now you're the guy that has the most to lose.   And then at moment Webb started playing well.   So I had to kind of keep the two attitudes, you know, the one that has to win and the one that doesn't have anything to lose.
So going up on the tee certainly with thinking I've nothing to lose helps everybody, I think.   But then depends on how the match goes on.   And attitude can be different all the time. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Very well done.   Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT