VIVENDI SEVE TROPHY
September 17, 2011
Anders Hansen
Pablo Larrazabal
Matteo Manassero
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   FRANCESCO MOLINARI: We both knew the point was important, and Matteo had to make his last putt to make the half point. But I think we played well. We had lots of chances and just really never took them. So I think we deserve the half point.   
  
  Q. The Seve Trophy, how has it measured up to your expectation?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It's been really good for three days and I've had so many good experiences, very different experiences. I had a win, a lose and a halve. It's been a really good experience. I knew it was going to be, and I'll be more prepared for the singles and next time.   
 Overall, not looking great?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: It's not looking great, no, unfortunately. Obviously it's a big positive and good boost for Thomas and I to play together and to play well.   
 But it's not looking good for tomorrow unfortunately. I don't know how we are going to change that and how we are going to turn this around. It's going to be tough tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What do you think the tactics might be tomorrow? Just nothing to lose?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: You can't really -- we have to win every match basically. So it's just going to be very, very tough.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised at today's results considering how you came back yesterday?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Yeah, I am. I'm very disappointed and very surprised of how it's been. Very disappointed.   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: It was a tough day. You know, always when you lose, you are angry at yourself.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised, because yesterday you came back well.   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: It's been the same the last four months. If you cannot putt, you cannot make anything after -- from three feet to 12 feet. You cannot make anything. You cannot compete against the best in the world, and it's been the same. Yesterday afternoon, I make some putts but today, it's been the same the last four months.   
  
  Q. And tomorrow, going to have to get some serious results out there.   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Tomorrow going to take at least 5 1/2 or more -- 7 1/2 to tie. So it needs to be a good one. Doesn't matter who is your opponent; we need to win all ten matches. Going to be tough. It's going to be tough, but there's a lot of golf to play, 18 holes, you never know. You can beat the best in the world, second best in the world, and all of them.  
 So, we are great players, chin up and go to play golf tomorrow.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT