VIVENDI SEVE TROPHY
September 14, 2011
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What are your thoughts on playing for Continental Europe in the Vivendi Seve Trophy?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It's great to be here. It's an honour to be in an event that is named on Seve. So it's great to be part of this, and you know, I think it's a big step forward toward The Ryder Cup.   
  
  Q. As a young player, you're breaking so many records, but you are the youngest to play in this competition, I imagine that's another cause for pride.   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yes, certainly. It's pride and I'm happy, as you said, to be the youngest to compete in this, and I didn't even expect at the beginning of the year, I was trying to get into this team obviously, but I did well and in the end I just got in. So, it's great to be here.   
  
  Q. When did you know for certain that you were playing and what's it been like since?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Well, never for certain, because I got in as a sixth in the World Ranking, because a couple of guys couldn't play, so I was just outside and fortunately I made it, but never that sure.   
  
  Q. You've been here for a couple of days, what's the environment like playing as part of a team under Jean Van de Velde?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: The environment is good. Jean is a really good captain, a lot of charisma and knows his golf very well. Trying to put up a few tactics that will hopefully work well.   
  
  Q. Is it everything you expected?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yes, I mean, I played Royal Trophy at the beginning of the year, and that's my only team experience as a professional that I have. So this will be the second, and you know, I kind of expected this, absolutely.  
  
  Q. You said about the charisma of Jean Van de Velde, he's certainly an eccentric character in some ways; what's he done to make you feel welcome and part of the team?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Well, as you said, he's very funny, so he tells jokes. He's a good captain, because you know, he has played serious moments, funny moments, and that's very important, because when you have to speak about something, that is important for this match. You have to be serious but you can't be serious all the time. He does that splitting really well.   
  
  Q. And the serious side is needing to win, because it's been a whole run of defeats for Europe?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, unfortunately, yes, we have tried to -- we have been since a long time that we have won this, so everybody is looking forward to attempting to win it, so we have a good team and positive in that sense.   
  
  Q. I know we have had this conversation before but tell me a little bit more about Seve and his influence on you, particularly bearing in mind the nature of this trophy.   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, obviously he was my idol and I never got to meet him that well, but I met him once and that meant a lot for me. But it means even more, maybe to be in this event, my first chance to be in the event where we are first missing him this year. Going to hopefully give him a great honour to play the Continental side.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT