OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 11, 2016
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Special day for you, considering Peter was talking to you as a 16‑year‑old in the presentation to the IOC.   
MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, it was a really good memory. It seems kind of far back. At least when you look at it the other way, when we were there, this day looked really, really far, and anything could happen. But a lot of things went well, and right now, I'm so happy to be here.   
When I hit the first tee shot, I thought, okay, I'm officially an Olympic athlete and that's a good feeling. Trying our best to get golf to look as great as it is in the bigger stage, sports stage there is. It's a good responsibility, and also we're having a lot of fun and it's great to be here.  
   
 Q. Are you happy with how you played?  
MATTEO MANASSERO: I played good. I didn't make many mistakes. I just hit a bad 4‑iron to the last, and hit a big drive on the last. Obviously the green is really tight, small to hit but I missed on the wrong side and I didn't make birdie. Pity. I missed a short one on 16. I could have shot left, I have to say. I didn't make many mistakes. That's an important thing but it's still a long way.  
   
 Q. You spent a lot of time on your putting yesterday.   
MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, I've been working on that part a long time, and these greens are really tricky. Tee‑to‑green, unless it's really windy, this course kind of let's you play. Yeah, you have to make the difference on the greens, and I've been finding it a bit difficult with the pace just because we're not used to this grass.   
It's not the kind of grass you can‑‑ seems like there is no grain at all, but I see it shine sometimes and sometimes I see it really green. I'm kind of getting to understand a little bit. I missed a few today, but work a little more on that. I guess it's just trying to get the feeling.   
   
 Q. Italians are known for spetatura, the style. So does it take away a little bit from the style?   
MATTEO MANASSERO: This, the bag? It looks nice when you see. So it's not an Italian fault, not an Italian problem. Yeah, it takes away from our look on the golf course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT