BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2011
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCOTT CROCKETT: A nice smile there, you must be pleased, a tough day out there but just give us your thoughts on today's round.  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Really tough day out there. It was, I think, the toughest of the three days we played so far, and you know, probably the adrenaline, being on top of the leaderboard with some tricky flags and tough weather, it made it really tough. So I'm happy the way I played. I saved a few good pars down the stretch, and you know, that is going to really help me tomorrow.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Every player likes to make birdies and eagles but there's a particular satisfaction about grinding out a score like that when it's not easy, isn't it.   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, it was very tough to make birdies today. You've got tricky flags, you don't want to miss shots so you don't want to be too aggressive and finish in the wrong spots and lose shots when you are on top of the leaderboard. So you play a bit more conservative, and you are going to do less birdies.   
 I probably made two birdies, hitting two good shots, and you know, I had a few chances. I had a few chances, but I couldn't take them. But as I said, I made some great putts for par, which are as important as birdies out there today.   
  
  Q. Are you strong enough mentally to beat the world No. 1 and 2 tomorrow in a shootout?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I don't know. I don't know. We'll see. I personally don't think it's going to be a mental battle out on that course. I think it's going to be the guy that plays and putts better is going to win.   
 I personally think I've been playing really well, and tomorrow, I can play well, as well, too. So I'm certainly not as strong mentally, mentally strong as them, I'll give you that for sure because they have more experience and everything.   
 But I'll try to fight and do as well as I did today and the other two days I played. So I will definitely try.   
  
  Q. Were you surprised to see the ball go through the back of the green at 17? You gave it a good hit. But just really did scuttle through, didn't it?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I was more surprised to see those two spikes right in the middle of my line with the putt, that's what I was more surprised. I was not happy there. But I hit a really good shot. It could have got a luckier break I think. It could have stopped on the green but it's got to pitch forward and release a long way up. It was a good spot to finish actually. I thought I could have done birdie from there, but it pitched a bit too strong. I had those two spikes and the ball breaking to the right of the putt.  
  
  Q. Knowing how tough it has been the last couple of days, are you surprised how tricky they made the pins today?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: No, not really. Not really, because I think it what makes them tricky is the thing that as soon as you miss a little bit, the wind will carry it and you will miss a long way, long away from the flag.   
 So the pins were definitely tough, and you know, I think it has to be like this in the BMW PGA Championship in Wentworth. It's such a big event. It has to be tough. I like it and I enjoyed it. You can't see many birdies but it's playing like a Major.  
  
  Q. Most teenagers your age are coming for exams and here you are, share of the lead in a championship that might be described as a fifth Major, you've got the world No. 1 and 2 right behind you, how does that feel?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It feels fantastic. I'm in a great position, as I always said, I'm a lucky 18 years old, and I'm lucky to be here, lucky -- I've played well enough to be in this situation, and that's why tomorrow it's going to be a good day and I think I have a chance to beat the world No. 1 and No. 2, because it's not going to be the last event for me; it's one of the first ones. I'll take what comes.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Thank you very much.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT