BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2011
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Assessment of the day, great score?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, it was really good. I played solid. I played really solid. I hit the ball well, didn't miss many shots, which I think conditions like this, on this course, it's key. 

 Q. Give a sense of how difficult it was?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It was difficult. It's tough conditions and the course is firm, but I managed to finally play a good, solid round, and that was the key of 5-under. 

 Q. Your first time here, you obviously quite like it, the course setup?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I like the course. It suits me well. Just because you have to put the ball in play. It's playing really firm this week. It's going to play firm, firmer, because it's windy, it gets really tough. Putting is not easy, but if you put the ball in play, you've done more than 50 per cent. 

 Q. The wind, is it quite gusty this morning?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It's going to be gusting because it's into the trees. You never know what it's going to do exactly. But if you get an approximate idea of what it's going on top, it makes it easy.

 Q. Does your experience of playing British Amateur events come into play?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, playing in windy conditions, in amateur golf, you play in a lot of windy conditions. But even more, I think professionally, we play every kind of course and we play with wind, which you know, it's a good experience. It's been a good year of experience. 

 Q. When you see your name up on the leaderboard in a field like this this week, does that now make you feel comfortable in that environment; that you belong?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I am getting confident all the time. I won twice, and that gave me a lot of confidence, seeing yourself on the leaderboard gives you confidence, and in a big event like this, it's good to be on top. That's where you want to be.

 Q. What did you think of the awards dinner the other night, was that inspiring? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: That was brilliant, amazing, really, to see Seve's videos and all of those things. It was dedicated to him actually, which I think it's absolutely right, and he did so much. But you know, my award was good to receive it. I really am happy about it and I'm excited to have achieved the Rookie of the Year, which means a lot to me.

 Q. Do you go to the U.S. Open with high expectations or do you just try and calm it down? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I don't know, Majors are still big for me. They are big for everybody, but I think I am just going there trying to play well, and see what happens. I don't know if the course suits me or not. It will be my first U.S. Open. So it will be a good experience. 

 Q. Do you know anything about Congressional yet?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Not yet. I know it's really long. 

 Q. In what way has your game changed or improved in the last year? What have you done to your game?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Experience. I'm changing the swing a little bit, so I'm still not ex-exactly where I want to be with the swing but I'm getting better all the time and I think, you know, this gives me a lot of confidence, this round, and says I'm going in the right way. 
 But mostly, it's mostly experience and knowledge of 18 golf holes around here with these conditions, nerves and adrenaline, it's not easy, but if you play well, it makes it easy, but it's not everything.

 Q. You're longer this season, as well. 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I'm getting a bit longer. I still don't know, depends, every week is different. 

 Q. Is that just driving naturally? Or do you put more emphasis on it?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I'm training physically more, and as I said, I'm changing a little bit the swing which I can do now, being stronger. 

 Q. How far would you be behind Rory now?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Still quite far behind. I don't aim to reach that distance. 

 Q. Luke isn't the longest hitter, is he, but is what he's doing now, does that make you feel comfortable that you don't have to be --
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Exactly, but I have no doubt that even players like us can do really well. I mean, I think Luke is due to -- you know, is playing so well. I think he's the guy that's playing well at the moment and more regular.

 Q. Do you think he's the best in the world at the moment? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I think he's the guy that's playing the best golf at the moment.

 Q. Are you doing more weight lifting? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I'm doing a lot -- well, more than weight lifting. It's more for the strength, but like for more acceleration and those things. It's fast training, I don't know how to call it really.

 Q. But you're still growing, how much have you grown in the last year or so?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I have no idea. 

 Q. Are you still studying?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah.

 Q. What are you studying? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I'm finishing my second to last year, it will be in a month. I'm going to do exams when I have a week off probably in a month. 

 Q. So that will finish high school? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: No, still another year of high school.

 Q. What's the exam you're least looking forward to?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: The toughest one will be in two years, the graduation ones. 

 Q. What subject? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: A bit of everything. 

 Q. Are you playing the next two weeks? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I'm not playing Wales. I'm playing Italy, U.S. Open, Munich, France. 

 Q. You have to play in Italy?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It's going to be a good week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT