UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 19, 2010
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Second Round 63. 10-Under Total. 130

 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Matteo, many thanks for joining us. Just start us off with talking about your superb 63 today. 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Thank you. It was a very good round of golf. I played a regular game, actually, being always in the right position. In my front nine, which is the back nine, I managed to hole quite a lot of putts, which I didn't hole, actually, the first day. And that was probably the difference of this round. 
 And the first day was 3-under, today was 7-under, probably just because of the putts, because the game was very similar perfect and pretty steady. I'm very happy obviously with this round. That puts me in contention for the weekend and that's actually what I wanted. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: And your first time to Hong Kong Golf Club, are there similarities to Castellon, where you won your first event? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: There are a few similarities. It's the kind of golf course in which you have to place the ball from the tee in the right spot to have quite an easier shot into the green. 
 So it's kind of those tricky golf courses, you know, when you don't have to always hit driver off the tee and carry bunkers 280 yards. So the kind of golf courses that suits me better and I prefer, obviously. 

 Q. When you turned pro in Italy, your confidence has grown so much, but how much more has it grown in the short time since you won Castellon?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It's grown a lot. I think the win, obviously the victories is the thing that gives you more confidence into this life. Obviously it's made of victories, but that's all -- that's what it is, actually. That's the thing that counts. 
 And having a victory so early, not expected, but, you know, got it, so it was a good injection of confidence, definitely. 

 Q. Did that victory, obviously still fresh in your mind, give you a lot of confidence, as well going into the weekend?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, that's exactly right. Yeah. I think at that time in Castellon, in my mind, it was Geneva, The Challenge Tour, in which I nearly won and it what was a great experience for me to touch what it was being there, fighting for the victory. 
 And it really had me in Castellon, even if there I didn't win, Castellon had not been managing the pressure. And here, that in Castellon gave me a lot of confidence and less pressure if we can say that. I'm less nervous approaching the weekend. I know what it is already, a little bit. 

 Q. Since you won on The European Tour, you came to Shanghai and Singapore and here. Is this your very first trip to Asia, and how do you like it so far?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, very first trip. Never been before to Asia. I would say it's been a good trip and a good experience to make. I played in different conditions. Singapore is very hot. Shanghai is different, different air from Europe. 
 So it's been a good experience for me to come here in Asia, and I enjoyed it, actually, yeah. 

 Q. First time to Hong Kong, as well? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, first time to Asia and first time. 

 Q. How do you like it, Hong Kong? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Good city. I think it's a very big city with a lot of things to do and to watch.

 Q. Did you go out to the racetrack that night?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, I did and it was a lot of fun.

 Q. But you couldn't have a bet, though. 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I couldn't. (Laughter).

 Q. Did you try?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I watched; in my mind, gambling in my mind. (Laughter).

 Q. Did you join the birthday party with Francesco Molinari on Monday in Singapore? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, the first night in Singapore. 

 Q. How was that?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It was a fun dinner in an Italian restaurant in Singapore. We could have done something better I thought but we were there and we enjoyed it. There were some people there, some players, some caddies.

 Q. Mostly all of the players from Italy? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Well, no, me and him from Italy. His brother wasn't even there. He was back in Italy. But there was a few Argentinian guys, a few caddies. Oliver Wilson was there; a few players. We enjoyed it. It was fun. Very good place, Singapore. 

 Q. After playing with Tom Watson at Turnberry a couple of years ago, has he been in touch with you after your win? Has he sent any congratulations? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Not after my win. He's been in touch with me before the Masters, at the Masters obviously. He has been in touch with me. He takes care of me. So, yeah, we can say that. Not after my victory, if you want to know. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Have you called Tom? Don't need to.
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I need to. (Laughter) but no, I didn't call him, no. 

 Q. Is there anything you fear at the moment? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Well, I don't expect too much out of me, so I don't fear a lot on the golf course. I think I'm in a very good moment. I'm confident. I'm playing good golf. I got my schedule playing for next year, everything already done. I just need to go and play. 
 And on the golf course, at the moment, fortunately I have no thoughts and fears. 

 Q. Having the taste of success already, how do you keep your feet on the ground? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It's in your way of thinking in your mind. You always try to keep your feet down in the ground, and that's always been my family, obviously, that gave me education and educated me that way, which is very important for me, for this life, everybody. 

 Q. Is it still difficult? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Well, just after the win, it's difficult. You think you're very good. (Laughter) No, no, yeah, just after the win, you're up in the sky. But then you come down when you see -- as I said, it's in your mind. You have to -- it's in your education, in your mind. It's something that, you know, there's nothing to do, really. Something that has to -- needs to be inside, I don't know. 

 Q. You talked about all of the travelling you've done, a lot of countries in the last few weeks, how are you coping with all of the long-distance travelling, particularly? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Getting more used to it. It's part of the life. You have to travel a lot and you have to travel, say, 25 events per year, plus some extra weeks. So we travel 30 weeks; more travelling than staying home. 
 So you have to get more used to it. Obviously I travelled a little bit as an amateur, which, you know, was important, was a good experience. And now it's definitely more -- one thing is that everybody takes care of everything for us, which is obviously very important. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thanks for joining us. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT