MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Matteo Manassero
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We want to recognize the amateur, a longtime tradition here at Augusta, and to be the youngest amateur to compete now, now the youngest player to ever make the cut at Augusta, how special is this for you? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It was a very special week for me, yes. I came here without expectation, I just wanted to enjoy. Actually I enjoyed it a lot, but I also played good, so that was even better for me. I had a very good week.

 Q. You really did. For 16 that's pretty sensational. You're going to turn professional pretty soon I understand?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yes, in three weeks, the first week of May, I will turn professional, yes.

 Q. We turn now to Phil Mickelson in Butler Cabin, who is the winner for the third time. I know they're all very special and sweet, but how about this one today? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It feels incredible. I mean, I could go on and on as to many reasons why, but to win this tournament, it's the most amazing feeling, and this has been a special day. You know, I'll look back on this day as very memorable. It's something I'll always cherish. 

 Q. There were so many shots that you played out there that were just remarkable. You did not have a single bogey today but some up-and-downs that were pretty special and then the daring efforts at 13 and the shot over at water at 15, as well. What was on your mind here as you were playing?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I needed to make birdies. There were a lot of fireworks going on ahead of us, and when we get to the birdie holes we had to do something. For me the big key was 12 again because just like in '04 I hit the ball in the same spot, I knew that putt and I ended up making that, and that gave me a little advantage heading into 13 and 15, and fortunately I was able to reach those in two and make birdies.

 Q. We talk about dedication victories sometimes in sport. This is one of the best I've ever seen. How much was that on your mind today to go win one for the family? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's been an emotional year, and I'm very proud of my wife and the fight and struggle she's been through, and it's been a difficult year, and to come out on top in this tournament is very emotional. It feels terrific and it's very emotional.

 Q. Looked like you didn't want to let go of her behind the green at 18. For her to come out here today and see the finish, I know this is one of the greatest memories of your illustrious career. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It is, it's one of the best things that we've gone through. In the last year we've been through a lot and it's been tough, and to be on the other end and feel this kind of jubilation is incredible. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT