MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
Matteo Manassero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, it's a great pleasure to welcome Matteo Manassero back to our interview room this afternoon.   
 As you know, Matteo was the youngest winner of the British Amateur. At age 16, the youngest player ever to compete in the Masters. In his first Masters appearance, he finished the first round at 1-under at 71, and after the second round of competition, he stands at 3-over, and he is the low amateur.   
 The projected cut at this moment is three, and should that hold, Matteo would be the first amateur to make the cut since 1999.   
 If you would like to make a few remarks about your round, after which we will open it for questions.  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yes, I want to say that I'm very happy that the cut is staying at 3-over, and hopefully I will make this cut that I struggled for today, because I didn't play that well, like yesterday, I played perfectly from first to 18. Today I mostly struggled but I saved some good pars and I made 4-over.   
 I want to say that the course was definitely tougher than yesterday. Some pins were more difficult, but I'm just thinking about my game, and then I'm hopefully going to make this cut at the Masters.   
  
  Q. Could you just talk about trying to hold your game together today? You were three-over on the front, and you had about three scrambling pars on the back nine?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yes, that was the part of the game that I like today. I'm very proud of this, because I've always been a player that played very straight and regular and miss some important putts.   
 Today I made almost all the important putts, so that was a great thing of my game. And all day just trying to stay on my game, trying to keep my score.   
  
  Q. Do you go back to school now after it's over?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yes, of course.   
  
  Q. And what grade are you in?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I'm in --  
  
  Q. Sophomore?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: No, I think it's a different type of school. I'm graduating in 2012, because in Italy, we used to finish school at 19. So I have this, and two more years.  
  
  Q. Can you go through some of the par saves you made on the back nine?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Let me remember. 11, was probably 15 to 20 feet.   
 12 was 25 to 30, more 30.   
 Made a birdie on 13 from 15 feet.   
 Then 14, I made two great putts from the front of the green, so it was a big slope and then a downhill putt and I made two putts from there that was very good.   
 Then 15, I saved a par from 20, 25 feet.   
 And then 17, I made from 12, less than 12.   
  
  Q. Could you just talk about what life has been like for you in this last year? I'm sure you've got a lot of attention from people. How have you gone about trying to stay even-keeled and not let your head get swelled up from the success and attention that you've been given?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: You mean try to stay level, level mind? I always don't want to -- I always want to stay level since that's the education that my parents gave me. So my parents help me, also, in this period to stay more level as I can.   
 But, you know, I dream for something like the Masters. But I tried always to stay more level as I can. I don't know in which way, but I've done it.   
  
  Q. As a follow-up to that, why golf? Soccer is so huge in Italy. Most kids, that's what they aspire to. What got you steered towards golf?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I always played both, and then at one moment I decided to keep with golf. So I started golf at 3 years old. It always has been a passion because I always watch on television, and that's how.   
 But I really like soccer, too, and I really like to play it and watch it. But I'm more -- I'm better at golf, so I kept golf. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. You said your hero is Seve Ballesteros; have you met him and is that how you learned the importance of the short game?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: No, I didn't learn short game from him. Actually I met just one time, him, when I was four.   
  
  Q. Do you remember that?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yes.   
  
  Q. Where was it?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It was in my home club.   
  
  Q. Was he playing?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, he was playing in The Italian Open.   
  
  Q. Where did you learn the importance of the short game, how important it is to scoring well?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Playing, making experience, playing with those players there.   
  
  Q. Ryo Ishikawa says his dream is to be the youngest-ever Masters Champion. Do you plan on trying to beat him to that?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Maybe. (Laughter) But I'm dreaming about be the Masters Champion; in what age, I don't mind, actually.   
  
  Q. After an experience like this, and you're going to maybe play four days here, how much more difficult then is it to go back to school?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: It's difficult but it's not as difficult as my friends that are going all day to school. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. What are your golfing plans long term?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I'm turning pro in the first week of May, at The Italian Open. Then I'm playing some events on The European Tour.   
  
  Q. This year?   
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yes, this year, trying to get my card. If not, I will -- if that doesn't happen, I will try with some of The Challenge Tour, and if not, trying the Q-School at the end of the year.   
  
  Q. And you will continue going to school?  
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yes, but a little different, like home school or online, because I cannot do both, but I want to turn pro.   
 THE MODERATOR: Matteo, congratulations on being the low amateur, and we wish you continued success.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT