THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 5, 2014
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Steve, hard‑fought battle out there today, in at 68.   Birdied the two par‑5s on the backside.   You don't get those opportunities very often.   There are just two of them.   Thoughts on how you played? 
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, it wasn't great.   I fought hard again.   I didn't have a lot of birdie opportunities it didn't seem like, but I hung in there.   I hit a couple drives that just ended up a foot or two off the fairway that made knocking it close to the green or knocking it close to the pin difficult.   So hit a couple of those, and a couple ‑‑ stupid play at number 9.   I tried to hit 3‑wood, and I fanned it and hit it in the bunker, I had no play.   That's a birdie hole, and I ended up making bogey.   So momentum wasn't there for either one of us today for a while.   We both started playing a little bit better coming in on the backside.   So I wish I could have made that one on the last.   I got another shot closer, but I'm close to the point where I need a real low one tomorrow, I think.

Q.   You made like a 42‑footer at the first.   That was a great putt.   This is such a game of momentum.   Did you feel at that point I've got that one, so here we go? 
STEVE STRICKER:   I did, I did.   I was just trying to get it down there and get out of there with a 4.   Sometimes those are the ones you make.   So, yeah, I felt like here we go.   I hit a good drive and a good 9‑iron at 2 and hit it in there.   Didn't get a good putt on it and then bogeyed number 4 and kind of after everything that had gone, which wasn't much.   Overall, I'm happy the way I hung in there again and playing smart and doing the right things at the right time.

Q.   So right now 4‑back.   I don't know what the lead is going to be when this is all said and done, but it's Sunday on the PGA TOUR, you never know. 
STEVE STRICKER:   Anything can happen and that's the truth.   There are not a lot of guys in between me and the lead, which is another good thing, but there are a ton of guys right behind us.   So anybody can come out of the pack here.   There are some low scores out here if you can get it going.   If you can drive it in the fairway, your irons have to be on to get some good putts at it.   You can shoot a good score here, but you have to do everything well, so there are a lot of people in this still.

Q.   You haven't played a whole lot this year.   Are you able to get into a comfort zone this early after three rounds of a tournament like this? 
STEVE STRICKER:   I feel pretty comfortable even when I came here for the first round.   I played Memorial.   I played the U.S. Open, and just had a couple weeks off and I was playing at home so it wasn't like I wasn't teeing it up at all.   And I'm used to it.   I'm used to coming out here with not a lot of preparation on TOUR.   So it's a comfortable feel for me and I'm used to it, and I'm good with that. 
I just like the way I'm hanging in there.   I don't have my best stuff, I don't think.   I'm not striping it.   But this course is tricky too.   It makes you do some funny things at times, I'm happy with the way I'm plugging along and hanging in there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT