THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2014
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE STRICKER:   Dumped a lot of rain again, and the fairways are soft, so if you hit it within the confines of the fairway, the ball is staying there.   
You know, so it's‑‑ so, yeah, and then the greens are holding quite well and they're putting well.   They're not overly fast and they're not slow.   So they're just a good speed to make some putts.  
You know, our group had a lot of opportunities, and we made some and we missed some, but overall there's a lot of opportunities out there, and you can see it in the scoring, too.  
   
 Q.   You disappointed in some shots you might have left out there?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   I made the turn 4‑under, and had a couple of opportunities on that second nine that I didn't convert on.   I had a nice putt at 6 and 7, you know, 10‑footers that I didn't make.   So that's disappointing.   To get one of them would have been nice.  
   
 Q.   Everyone talks about this course, Steve, and this event.   Tell us about your experience what it's like playing here at Greenbrier.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   It's a nice place to come.   It's a nice place to bring your family.   The course is‑‑ it's good.   You know, the only reason we're seeing better scoring, I think, today is because of the soft conditions.   Otherwise, you know, when it can get firm and fast here it's pretty difficult.   
But it's a great place to come.   I've enjoyed two years ago when I came and that's what brought us back again this year.  
   
 Q.   How has this year gone for you so far?   Are you pretty comfortable?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   It's okay.   I haven't played that much, but I'm starting to get into the groove of things a little bit more and starting to play a little bit better golf of late.   So it's an exciting time for me to start playing and play this week and next week and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   So if you get hot we might see you some more.   Is this a good start to you getting hot?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   This is a good start.   You know, I'm just taking it one day at a time really still and seeing what the day brings and trying to do the things that I normally do and stay within the confines of my game and my game plan.   
So you know, we'll just keep plugging along and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   What was the process to commit here?   I know you said it was a late commitment.   When did you commit and why did you decide to play here again?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Well, I kind of was, you know, maybe about a week and a half ago, it just started looking like I should maybe come play here and then John Deere.   And I was thinking about skipping the British.   So I wanted to get a couple of tournaments in, especially if I was skipping the British.   
And like I said, I enjoyed our time here a couple years ago, and you know, I thought it would be good to play the week before the John Deere swing and get some rounds under my belt.   And then also, thinking if I play well, you know, maybe sneak out a win in one of these two or have a couple of high finishes that the British Open was a possibility.  
   
 Q.   Just to clarify on the British, no plane ticket, no hotel, house, anything like that?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Nothing.   
   
 Q.   How do you change your approach with tomorrow if the conditions are a little more harder, I guess?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   And they probably will be harder tomorrow.   You know, we got a north wind, a little bit stronger wind tomorrow.   And also, you know, probably dry things out a little bit.   
You know, then the course is going to show its teeth a little bit more, I imagine.   So you just gotta come out that day and see what it's like, get out there on the course and take each hole as it comes and make a game plan when you get out there and stick to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT