MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
STEVE STRICKER:   You got to be patient.   That one on 18 for bogey, that was probably, it leaves a little bit better taste in my mouth, instead of a double bogey.   
So that ‑‑ I made a nice save at 9, too.   I hit it long on the right side and chipped it down to about a foot and a half or so.   So I made a couple of nice saves today to keep the round going.  
   
 Q.   What were the clubs on 18?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Well, I just dead pulled my driver right into the trees, right straight away.   I was lucky just to find it, really, and advance it into the fairway.   Then I had a utility club into the green and I hit that left of the green, really not a good spot there either.   
My putter saved me.   I made a 25‑footer or whatever.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   That kind of looked like it skipped over there.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, it was a hard bounce there.   You got to get it on the green.   You can't be, especially at that point, I hit it enough times by then, that you got to make sure I get the next one on there and give myself a putt at it.  
   
 Q.   How do you, have you that round like today, what are your expectations given the difficulty and everything.   
STEVE STRICKER:   I haven't been playing all that well lately either, I've been putting some new irons into my bag last week and switching some shafts around and kind of led to some inconsistency that I normally haven't seen out of myself.   But it was better today.   
I hit some better shots, I drove it a little bit better, except for the last.   But some better iron shots than I did last week.   It's moving in the right direction, at least.   
   
 Q.   What is 17 like without the tree?   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, it looks less intimidating without the Eisenhower tree there, for sure.   You got a pretty wide fairway there now.   But you still, those trees can come into play a little bit, but, yeah, it's definitely more appealing to our eye with that wide of a fairway.   
   
 Q.   Where did your drive go there today?  
STEVE STRICKER:   I hit a good one there.   I had 178 yards I think to the hole.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
STEVE STRICKER:   It's tough.   I think that's, the wind came up there.   It's been all over, I think it's now just starting to get pretty steady out of one direction.   But we played a few holes on that front where we felt like it should have been helping and it was hurting and vice versa.   
So it was just like it didn't want to make up its mind earlier today.   Finally it's like it's coming out of the southwest, I guess, a little bit now.   
So it's tough.   Tough getting the right club.   
   
 Q.   When you saw the pins for today what did you think?   
STEVE STRICKER:   They're all tough.   They are.   They're all tough in their own way.   Right away on the first hole you got back right, we're hitting a 5‑iron in there and it's just like you want to get off to a decent start and make par, so it was challenging on every hole.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
STEVE STRICKER:   12 did, 11 right up over the water there, 10 front right.   There's not a lot of holes where you feel like you can just fly it right at it back in the fairway.   Especially when you're coming in with a mid iron.   It's a difficult test.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, it's good right now and I imagine it's going to get a little bit firmer and faster as we continue to play.   So it's going to even make things even more challenging and more difficult.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT