THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 6, 2013
Keegan Bradley
Phil Mickelson
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your man over here making that putt.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, that was awesome to see, and he made a putt right when we came back out from the rain delay on 14.   That was a huge putt to give us a 1‑up lead.   
I give the International side a lot of credit for fighting hard, because they made a birdie on 15 from out of the junk that was impressive and they birdied 18 with that chip‑in to tie us.   It looked like, I felt like Keegan, he makes these clutch putts, does it a lot of times on the regular TOUR; Akron he did it, he's done it at the PGA when he won and he does it all the time when the pressure is on, and he made another one right there.   
   
 Q.   It was a halve, that back nine was really something.   Starting at 10, you made great saves and you had an unlikely turnaround at 13 and then you come out and make the putt at 14 and forth ahead.   Looks like at 15 you are going to take control of the match and then switched back.   The 18th hole, I would have bet a lot of money before it got started it wouldn't be halved with 3s.   Tell us about the second shot.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   It was a 190‑yard shot and I can't get a 7‑iron there that par but I had to hook it and a hook 6 I thought brought it back into play.   I shut the face on a 7 trying to get that extra distance and I round‑hooked it to the pin, and Keegan rolled that putt in.   It was an awesome putt.  
   
 Q.   Their second shot, came to rest in a place where you really can't have a ball come to rest.   If you play here in the Memorial, that's down at the bottom of the fairway, but it stays there, he holes it out and now you halve the putt.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was the most nervous I've ever been, for sure, but I want everyone to know that Phil's shot was better than my putt.   That was a really hard shot.   I'm just proud that I made it.   Phil gave me a good read, and, man, it feels really good.   
  
 Q.   How were you guys able to dominate the match?   
STEVE STRICKER:   You know, we just played well together.   We did a lot of good things.   Billy played great, hit a lot of great shots, putted it extremely well, and yeah, we just kept it in play and in alternate‑shot, that's what you have to do.   We gelled well together and it was fun to be out there with him.  
   
 Q.   The last couple of minutes, we were joking about how crazy‑accurate you are with your iron play, especially your short irons; what's it like to play with a guy like Steve?   
BILL HAAS:   He's so accurate, he got a pitching wedge on the last hole and I thought I was going to have a 5‑footer for birdie; I didn't even doubt that.   That's a nice feeling.   I wish I had him in my bag on a week‑to‑week basis.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT