THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 4, 2013
Bill Haas
Hunter Mahan
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Some golf to play but you guys are in good shape right now?
STEVE STRICKER:   We are in good shape.   Wish we could finish off this hole.   We are in good shape but we have to finish it off tomorrow, bright and early tomorrow. 

Q.   You got off to a good start after the rain delay with a birdie on 10 which you made, and then Jordan made the one on 12 after a great iron shot; talk about the momentum you got there. 
STEVE STRICKER:   That was key and he made a nice putt at 8.   He made a nice 15‑footer at 8 to win that hole, and yeah, so we've been putting the pressure on them all day and we've just got to finish it off.

Q.   In terms of the conditions, obviously it's even softer than before, talk about the conditions a little bit. 
STEVE STRICKER:   It's pretty soft but still very playable.   We are playing it up now after the rain, so it's good.   The greens are still pure, you can still be aggressive and hole some putts, and still a lot of birdies to be made. 

Q.   Talk about the day and how things went. 
BILL HAAS:   They were 7‑under through 11, and certainly, I left a couple loose shots out there early that putt Hunter in a bad spot, but after that we were hitting fairways and Hunter was hitting fantastic shots and I knew it was going to come down to me having to make a few putts.   I just didn't make the putts I had to make to keep us in the match. 
HUNTER MAHAN:   I thought we played pretty well.   We didn't really kill ourselves out there.   They just played really good.   I think you give credit to them.   They played phenomenal golf.   They made nine birdies out there, something like that.   You're not going to win matches when guys are making nine birdies on you.   They played really well, and you know, I think we are still playing pretty well.   We've just got to lick our wounds and get at it tomorrow. 

Q.   Maybe just a quick wrap‑up on what the conditions were like when you guys came back after the rain.   It was pretty wet before it rained and you had a long delay.   Maybe talk about what the conditions were. 
HUNTER MAHAN:   It was a good decision they played it up because there was a massive amount of mud on all the balls and would have been just kind of silly golf.   That was a good decision.   The greens are still soft but they are still rolling fast.   The fairways are, you know, it's just super wet out there, but other than that, the course is in fantastic shape and it's just shooting darts. 
BILL HAAS:   Like he said, it's very soft, very wet.   Playing the ball up is fair, if you're hitting fairways, you deserve to be able to hit a good iron shot, and with the mud on the balls, that was the right decision.   But with the greens being soft, you're going to see low scores.   I think that's what the fans want.   They are getting it.   Our playing partners just made for than we did today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT