TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 20, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Another good round.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the day.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Kind of a tale of two nines, where I didn't get much done on the front side.   Had a couple of birdie opportunities that I didn't make.   Didn't hit it great.   Just kind of scrambled my way around that front side, and the back side I played nicely, made a couple of nice up and downs.   
Made some putts that I didn't make on the front.   Made four birdies and shot 4 under on the back, which is always a good thing around here.  
   
 Q.   More enjoyable than elk hunting?   
STEVE STRICKER:   I've never been elk hunting.   This was going to be the year.   Who knows?   Maybe my friends aren't seeing any elk at all.   Maybe I'm having more fun. I'm sure they're having a good time and having fun.  
   
 Q.   You haven't heard from them?   
STEVE STRICKER:   No.   They're going to call me either tonight or tomorrow night and kind of give me an update what's going on.  
   
 Q.   Playing with Jordan the last three days, what impressed you the most about his game?   
STEVE STRICKER:   I think just his composure.   I think he's got it all together.   You know, he doesn't seem like 20 years old.   He seems more mature than that.   Nice player.   He plays‑‑ you know, I just played with him the last couple of days, but I can tell he's got a lot of game.   
Good short game, putts it well, and a good kid.   We had a lot of fun the last couple of days.   So looking forward to the time at the Presidents Cup with him, and maybe we'll get paired up together.   So we had a good time the last couple of days.  
   
 Q.   What were you like when you were 19, 20?   
STEVE STRICKER:   I don't even remember.   I surely didn't have the game he had or has when I was 19 or 20.   He's got a tremendous game.   He hits it long.   He's straight.   And like I said, he's got a good short game in putting.   That's going to go a long ways.  
   
 Q.   In the Presidents Cup, is it an advantage that the American team [ No microphone ]?   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I think so.   And what's even more‑‑ what's even better is that we have a week off.   So we can play a little bit, feel like we can determine what we need to work on to get ready for that Presidents Cup.   
But, yeah, to get rounds under our belt is a good thing, but I think also that break that we're going to get next week, I think a lot of guys are running on empty.   It's a long stretch at the end of the year.   A lot of big tournaments, a lot of big golf, and I think the week off will do everybody a lot of good.  
   
 Q.   [ No microphone ].   
STEVE STRICKER:   Well, the yardage, it was 224 today‑‑ 216 to the front, 224 to the hole.   The pin is probably the easiest we're going to see.   It was kind of IN the middle of the bottom tier down there.   You have a backstop a little bit.   You can get it up and down out of the bunkers if you hit it sideways.   
Now they'll start probably putting it in the corners, which makes it even more difficult.   
It's just the length of it, and it's a great bunkered hole, and it's a good green.   It's just a difficult finishing hole.   When you make it through, you're happy with it, and you move on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT