BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEVE STRICKER:   I made a couple of nice putts, nice saves today.   But I watched a great round.   Snedeker played a great round.   He hit it great, gave himself a lot of putts and made a lot of putts.   It was fun to watch on the putting green.

Q.   You can get lulled into sleep playing alongside.   Next thing you know, 4‑ or 5‑under on the front and things got going for you?
    STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I just hung in there.   There's a lot of birdie holes out there, but the wind started to kick up, too, so it made club selection kind of difficult, so you had to kind of pay attention and be careful at times, but a good start to the tournament.

Q.   Wisconsin weather finally started to pick up later in the round.   Did you finally feel like this golf course was doing what you expected it to do at the beginning of the day? 
    STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, and that's what everybody says, that the defense for this course is the wind, and we're going to see that, I think, a little bit tomorrow, and with cooler temperatures, too.   I'm sure it'll play a little bit more difficult, and it'll dry up a little bit and make things even more so. 

Q.   Just talk about the round and what was going well for you. 
    STEVE STRICKER:   You know, it was a‑‑ I didn't hit it the greatest today, but I think I managed my game well.   I took advantage of a couple of shots that I hit in there, made the putts, made a couple good up‑and‑downs, one at No.2 I missed the green to the right, so a couple of par saves really kept the round going, kept the momentum going. 
    Just trying to feel your way around the course.   We've never played here before, and with the wind direction we're not too familiar with probably.   It's just tough to kind of get a feel for the course our first time around. 

Q.   The group must have made 20 birdies.   That must have been fun. 
    STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, watching Snedeker pouring it in from all over the place is always fun.   He's probably the best putter I've ever seen.   The guy makes it or looks like he's going to make it from just about anywhere.   It's fun to watch, and you can't get caught up in watching him, though, because otherwise you go by the wayside, so I had to pay attention to what I was doing, and it was a good start. 

Q.   I don't know if you paid much attention to Stenson's comeback, but you're the other sort of famous comeback kid.   Can you relate to what he's done and is yours different from his?
    STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, for sure.   It's a rare occasion when a player doesn't have some sort of lull in his career, and we all go through it at some point in time, I think, to varying degrees. 
    But yeah, Henrik struggled for a period of a year maybe, or two, and I know his World Ranking dropped down in the 200s, and it's great to see him playing well.   His confidence level is obviously high, and he's been playing great golf. 
    Yeah, so I can relate to where he's been and where he's at now.   I mean, it's good to see. 

Q.   When you're at this stage in a comeback, like really there, is there something you have to watch out for at this stage? 
    STEVE STRICKER:   I guess, if anything, you always know where you were, and you've got to be open to the fact that you've got to stay on top of things.   You've got to‑‑ that scares you, I guess, is what I'm trying to say.   You don't want to go back there, so you work at it and you put in the time and remember what is getting you to the point that you're at and try to build on those things and try not to make the mistakes that put you in the hole to start with. 

Q.   Have you made a decision on next week yet?
    STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I'm playing.

Q.   What went into that decision?
    STEVE STRICKER:   You know, it was just the right thing to do.   I made up my mind right away Monday after Deutsche Bank.   You know, it's our Super Bowl marquee event, so it would be‑‑ I don't think it would be right for me not to play.

Q.   What about the Presidents Cup?   How excited are you for that?
    STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, very excited.   I'm looking forward to that.   Happy that I made it on my own, got in there on my own merit, which that's what I wanted to do.   So looking forward to that, too.   It's always fun to be a part of those teams and get to hang out with the guys for a week, and it's always a lot of fun.

Q.   Did it feel like there were a lot of people out there today? 
    STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, there were a lot of people out there today.   I got a lot of shout‑outs from Wisconsin and Illinois, too, but I think the crowd was kind of getting ahead because of who was behind us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT