DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Steve Stricker, thanks for joining us.   Fantastic week, 20‑under par at the Deutsche Bank Championship.   You said early in the week your goal was to lock a spot on the Presidents Cup team.   And you did that.   And in the meantime, as well, earned your way through the next two playoff events, the FedExCup, and the TOUR Championship.   Congratulations on the week.
STEVE STRICKER:   Thank you.   It was a good week.   Came here trying to get one of those last few spots on the team, knowing that I needed to play well. 
I had texted Freddie earlier in the week, I didn't want one of his spots as a pick, I wanted to make the team on my own.   So I had great incentive, great motivation to play well this week.
I'm excited to be part of another team and represent the USA at Muirfield.

Q.   Steve, was this tournament an unqualified success, or do you have a hint of disappointment for coming in second?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, a little bit of both.   I had some real opportunities today to‑‑ I hit some great shots on the back nine all the way around and had some makeable putts that I just couldn't get in there.   I hit a lot of good putts, hit a lot of edges.
So when I look back‑‑ and I bogeyed No. 4 today, the short par‑4, which that's a two shot swing, potentially.   I knew that wasn't going to be helpful when I did it at the time.   You can't be bogeying that hole.
There's a couple of things there that didn't‑‑ that I didn't do, which I'll look back and be a little frustrated on and disappointed that I wasn't able to pull it off. 

Q.   Was it difficult with the stop and start and changing the time, and pushing it back, and coming off the golf course, how did that affect you at all?
STEVE STRICKER:   A little bit.   A little bit.   But it wasn't too bad.   I'm so glad that we're able to get it in today.   I didn't think we had a chance to get it in today and finish it up.   So I think everybody here, the sponsors, the golf course, all you media and players, it's just a good thing when we can finish on the day that we're supposed to and not carry over to the next day.   So that's a good thing. 

Q.   What was your reaction when you found out that Stenson holed it out from the bunker?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I said‑‑ I didn't say anything.   I just kind of rolled my eyes.   But I told my caddie, Jimmy, that he's been knocking at the door for a couple of months.   And he's been playing some great golf.   You don't think it's going to happen to you when a guy holes out of the bunker.   But I was still a couple of shots back at the time.   So I don't think it really‑‑ unless he made bogey, it could have changed things, you know?   That's why you just play it out.   You play it out.   I was trying to make eagle on the last.   You just don't know whether a guy is going to run into trouble on the last, you have to play all 72 holes.
Good for him.   Great shot.   And like I say, he's been knocking at the door for quite some time and finally got his win. 

Q.   Was there a number that you thought you needed to get to to have a chance to win, were you thinking 21, 22?
STEVE STRICKER:   I wasn't thinking any numbers at all, really.   I was a little surprised to see him at 21.   I guess I looked at the board maybe when I came up on 15 or something like that.   And at that time I was four shots behind.   I think‑‑ no, I was 18 under.   So I was three shots behind and lipped out a birdie there at 15.
But I was shocked to see that he was at 21.   Didn't know what was going on behind us, I hadn't looked at a board for a while.   He must have played great.   He didn't back into it.   He played great.   He earned it and hats off to him. 

Q.   Your schedule has been the top of the conversation all year long.   Now we're through two.   Are you intending to play in Chicago and then in Atlanta?
STEVE STRICKER:   Chicago for sure.   I'm not sure about Atlanta yet.   I've had this hunting trip scheduled all year.   I know it sounds a little strange, but I'm going to wait and see.   I'm going to see how I play in Chicago.   We're supposed to leave Monday after Chicago.   They've pushed this trip back for me a couple of days so I could play in Chicago.
So I'd like to do both.   But it's not possible.

Q.   Where are you supposed to go?
STEVE STRICKER:   Out in Colorado.

Q.   Why did they schedule that trip that week?
STEVE STRICKER:   It was just the time of the year.   It was either during BMW week or TOUR Championship week.   And I got a text message from one of my buddies who is going on the trip.   Actually it was an email and he's like, remember, you're elk hunting (laughter).
But he knows if I'm up in there and have a chance to win or top 10 going into Atlanta, I'll probably go into Atlanta.

Q.   This is a buddies trip that you have planned?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, there's five of us going bow hunting for elk.   I've never done it before and it's been on my to do list to try to do and this was going to be the year to do it. 
DOUG MILNE:   Steve, congratulations. 
STEVE STRICKER:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT