DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Steve Stricker into the interview room.   8‑under par, 63.   Steve, another excellent round for you in the FedExCup playoffs.   Can we get comments on the day?   
STEVE STRICKER:   It was a good day.   Scoring was really good.   We had ball‑in‑hand today so that always seems to provide some good scoring.   I'm a leaderboard watcher, so I was constantly watching the leaders and what everybody was doing.   And continually saw birdies being made and the lead getting lower and lower.  
So it puts you in that mindset to go out and make birdies and be aggressive.  
   
 Q.   What was your goal this week?  
STEVE STRICKER:   My goal this week?   My goal this week was to make the team, The Presidents Cup team, on my own merit.   That was the goal.   So it's provided a lot of incentive to me to play well here.   So it was good motivation this week.   
I'm outside that number by‑‑ I looked today, I'm outside by about‑‑ 370 thousand or 375 thousand.   So it's like 188,000 that I'm outside the number on.   And Zach is the guy I'm trying to pass.   So it's‑‑ that's been my goal, is to try to get into the top 10.  
   
 Q.   Have your goals changed?  
STEVE STRICKER:     No.   I mean obviously if‑‑ you know, playing well, trying to win this golf tournament takes care of my main goal of trying to get on that team.   So I guess the two go hand in hand.  
Ultimately I want to make the team, but I know doing that I have to play well here and finish in the top 10 or better.   So that was my mindset.  
   
 Q.   What happened on 18?  
STEVE STRICKER:   I hit a good drive.   Had 237 to the hole.   Put a new utility club in the bag this week.   My old one‑‑ older Titleist one, kind of two generations ago, wasn't seeming to be flying my distance that I needed to fly, so I put a new one in.   And there was a perfect number for it, a little downwind or a little crosswind.   And we've been flying it right around the 230 mark.   And it flew up about 234 and I hit it in about six feet and made it.  
   
 Q.   Did it have a hickory shaft in it or‑‑  
STEVE STRICKER:   No.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about tomorrow?  
STEVE STRICKER:   It's going to be another tough day for everybody.   We've got storms in the area, it sounds like, we're getting out early in threesomes.   I imagine we'll probably play lift, clean and place tomorrow, because of the chance of storm.   
And the course is just wet enough if we get a lot of rain, that it can cause problems.   So I imagine we'll play it up again.   It's going to be another low scoring day, I imagine.   So you have to have that mindset to pick your spots and hit good quality shots and make birdies.  
   
 Q.   Since the playoffs began here, the highest 54 hole total has been 11‑under.   We usually get 19‑under, 17‑under.   A, does that surprise you?   And what do you think of it?  
STEVE STRICKER:   You know, it's always in such good shape here, but I think the fairways are fairly generous.   And we're playing usually in some softer conditions.   It just happens so that it rains or we get some sort of weather the week before.   One year I think we had the hurricane come in a week before or a couple of days before and it softened things up or during the week.   It always seems to be where we're playing under some softer conditions here.   And I think that's what leads to good scoring.   And the greens are always good.   
And guys get in their mindset here, I think, to shoot some good numbers and play well.   It's a fun course.   We enjoy coming here.   I've always enjoyed coming here.   But it is ‑‑ you're right, the scoring has been good.  
   
 Q.   Is it a proper test?  
STEVE STRICKER:   I think it's a good test.   I think it's one of those if you're playing well, you can really shoot a good number.   If you're not it's difficult at times.   It can be difficult.   But, like I say, if you're driving the ball in the fairway you get a lot of opportunities.   And there's enough short holes out here where I can take advantage of them.   There's a drivable par‑4.   18 is reachable.   I played with Jason Day today and he knocked it on No.7 with an iron.   Not too many people are getting it on that green.   But there's enough holes where you can make birdies and be aggressive.  
JOHN BUSH:   We appreciate your time.  
STEVE STRICKER:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT