DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about today compared to yesterday.   I know you were really pleased yesterday, how about today?  
STEVE STRICKER:   A little bit of a mixed bag.   I didn't strike my irons all that great.   I had some good numbers and stuff, but I just didn't give myself very many opportunities.   I got fooled with the wind a couple of times.   The distance the ball was traveling and stuff like that.   So it kind of put some doubt in my mind.   Shot 3‑under, hit enough good shots to score well.   But I'm going to have to hit some better irons on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   8‑under, you look at the leaderboard and Sergio is out there.   What do you think about tomorrow, have to go super low or just maintain?  
STEVE STRICKER:   No, I'm going to have to shoot something low, I think.   Sergio has been in this position before and is a world‑class player.   So I'm sure he's going to continue on and keep going.  
So on my end I'm going to have to focus on shooting something pretty low to at least have a chance on Sunday, that is.   So I've got to make some more putts and hit it in a little closer tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I have to ask you about The Presidents Cup, because we're talking a lot about it.   I know that's important to you.   Obviously a strong finish might have some say or do you think that perhaps you've done enough?  
STEVE STRICKER:   No, I'd like to have a strong finish.   I'd like to make that team on my own.   That's my goal this week is to get back in there, in the top 10 on my own.   I don't want to be a pick.   I want to be in that top 10.   So that's my focus.  
   
 Q.   And that's motivation?  
STEVE STRICKER:   It is a lot of motivation.   And I think that's what keeps‑‑ there's always a carrot dangling in front of us out here on the Tour it seems like.   There's always something.   And that's my focus this week is to try to get back in the top‑10.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT