DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Come out and throw 5‑under, good start.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Thank you.   It was a good day.   I got off to a good start, turned 4‑under.   Kind of had a little‑‑ birdied No.1, and then kind of sputtered along.   I 3‑putted 2 for par, and missed a birdie at 4.   So I kind of felt like I was giving some shots away.   But then made a good birdie at 8 to kind of get it back a little bit.  
I had a good start, I haven't played for a couple of weeks, so it's nice to get a nice round under your belt when you first come back.  
   
 Q.   How do you do it?   You seem to have discovered something nobody else has?  
STEVE STRICKER:   I think guys have discovered it before I have.   There were some great players before me that played very little and played very well.   And I just found a nice balance.   And I feel good about what I'm doing.   It's been a great year in that regard.   I feel like I've balanced my life out, not only at home, but out here on the golf course.   It's been a nice mix of things.   So I feel good about what I'm doing, and that helps, too, when I come out to play.  
   
 Q.   Did you enjoy the U.S. Open, did anybody recognize you?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I heard some people recognize me.   Not too many.   We enjoyed that a lot.   We had a lot of fun there.   We spent all day out there Monday and Tuesday‑‑ well, I was out there all day Tuesday.   And it was a lot of fun taking it in.   There's some talented players there.   They can hit that ball so hard and put it in a little spot it seems like to me.   So it was pretty interesting and pretty amazing to watch them.  
   
 Q.   Looking forward to tomorrow?  
STEVE STRICKER:   I am looking forward to it.   I'm right back out here in the morning.   So it's a quick night.   
We should have great conditions tomorrow morning, a little bit warmer probably than what the guys had this morning.   But the course is in great shape, and we should get it in perfect shape tomorrow morning.   
   
 Q.   Are you feeling pressure on any of these events?  
STEVE STRICKER:   No, I don't.   If anything, it's taken a little bit of pressure off me, I guess.   I don't know why, but I feel comfortable with what I'm doing, relaxed with what I'm doing.   And it's showing in my game.  
It's always a little bit tougher to start, at the start, I should say, just because I haven't played for a couple of weeks, I don't really know what to expect, how my game is going to hold up.   But so far so good.   And I got off to a good start today and played well.   
   
 Q.   You talked about earlier the balance of work and home, how has that helped?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Well, it's just‑‑ this is my 20th year on Tour.   I'm 46, I'm getting close to that Senior Tour, and I feel like‑‑ and I'm still playing good golf.   But I still feel like I need to spend more time at home.   My kids are at the age that I want to be at home, and they're into activities and things that I want to be around for.   
I've had a great run out here.   Not that it's going to stop, but I just want to curtail it a little bit and play a little bit less.   And it's been a good mix.   I've enjoyed that and they've enjoyed having me home so far.  
You never know, it could change.   But, no, it's been good.  
   
 Q.   Does it surprise you when you three‑putt a hole?   I think the stat was 89 holes without a three‑putt.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I don't like to three‑putt.   Nobody likes to three‑putt out here.   And I try not to ever.   And, yeah, especially when I'm putting for eagle.   I had a makeable eagle putt from 25 feet, probably, and walk off there with a par.   So that was disappointing.   And then not to birdie the par‑4, No. 4, too.   I felt like I was throwing some shots away there.  
But good start to the tournament.   I'm three back.   Good start to the first day.   And I'm back out early tomorrow morning.   
   
 Q.   Did it take you back after that three‑putt?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I was a little frustrated walking off 2.   And even more frustrated walking off 4.   I threw three birdie chances away and then bogeyed 6.   Where are we going here?   I felt like I was going backwards, and I was.   But I threw a nice birdie in there at 8.   So that makes me feel a little bit better, and I kind of got the round back little bit.   And to shoot 5‑under in the afternoon, to be three back, is a good start.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT