JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEVE STRICKER:   Like I said, I just didn't get it in the hole today.

Q.   Just try and come out tomorrow and make a million birdies and see what happens?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, that's all I can do.   18‑under is leading, I think.   That's seven back.   That's a long ways on this course, because there's a lot of guys that will go out and play well and shoot a low number.   But you never know.   I've put up a low number here before, so I'm going to have to try to do that tomorrow. 

Q.   Have you ever had a stretch of nine holes there on the front where you just couldn't get anything to fall, especially on this course?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, no, I haven't.   It was frustrating and it was testing my patience.   Just some little things were happening through the course of that nine holes that weren't going my way, little things that the average guy outside the ropes can't see.   Like on No.4, I pipe it down the middle, hits the tree and comes 40 yards back in the fairway. 
A lot of little stuff today just prevented me from making a good score.   But feel okay with the way I'm hitting it and the way I'm playing, and just got to get the ball in the hole. 

Q.   ShotLink said five feet on the putt on 17, but it looked like a tough one, downhill slider?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, again, I had a little spike mark there that I had to kind of deal with, and I tried to jam it in there and it broke a lot more.   I might have pulled it, too, I don't know.   Yeah, it was a grinder to the left.   But hit two good shots in there.   I was looking to make a 3 and just didn't capitalize on the putt. 

Q.   Is it tough for you to go into tomorrow not in position, especially after all the success that you've had here over the last years?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, you know, as I was playing the front nine today and watching everybody just lap me, that was tough to see.   And that puts more pressure on you to try to make a birdie because you're seeing everybody else making birdies and you're not making the putts.   So that was hard. 
Tomorrow I'll just have to come out and do the best that I can, and like I say, put up a low number.   And they're out here.   The low number is out here.   Hopefully I can get them all to go in tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT