JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I know you're disappointed with the bogey on the last hole and it may leave a sour taste in your mouth, but that was a well‑played round of golf. 
STEVE STRICKER:   Thanks, it is a sour taste.   I had a birdie putt and I had to walk away with a bogey.   Not what I was looking for.   I was looking to make that putt and get within one, and instead I lose one.   Not a very good ending but still within striking distance, only three back with a couple rounds to play.   Overall it was pretty good.

Q.   And that's a big thing, there are 36 holes remaining in this golf tournament.   You have time to make a big move?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, and tomorrow I'm going to have to come out and get off to a good start and make some birdies.   It was better today.   I hit some better iron shots today than I did yesterday.   At least I think I'm moving in the right direction. 

Q.   Obviously not the way you wanted to finish but talk about the round overall. 
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, it was a good round.   I played pretty solid.   I had a couple little hiccups there but I managed to get out of them.   Yeah, just had a ball mark on the last that was right in my line, and I could not get it right, and it affected my stroke, I think.   I just put a poor stroke on it and it hit the ball mark and shot it left.   I was looking to make a birdie there and get within one, and instead I'm three back now.   But still a lot of golf to play, and need a couple good rounds to go.

Q.   At the end of yesterday it looked like you went out for a longer‑than‑normal practice session in the afternoon.   Were you looking for something and did you get something out of it today?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, it got better today than it was yesterday with my irons.   I still hit a couple of poor wedges that I normally feel pretty comfortable over, and I hit a couple of poor ones that I should have a birdie putt and I have a long putt instead. 
Yeah, you know, it's three weeks since I've last played, so it's always kind of a learning process that I'm going through, I think, but again, it was a better day today, and I'm getting a little more confidence each and every day, and hopefully tomorrow I can make some putts and put a good number up on the board.

Q.   You and Zach were kind of going back and forth with birdies.   What was it like playing with him?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, it's fun.   He's playing great.   He obviously has a great feeling for this course much like I do.   It's fun to play with him and fun to feed off of his energy and his crowd.   Yeah, it's a lot of fun, and Davis is another friend, so we had a good group.

Q.   Did you feed off your crowd today?
STEVE STRICKER:   With the orange?   Yeah, I got a lot of I‑L‑L chants and a big cheer went up when I made the birdie at 17.   Yeah, I got a lot of Illinois support today, which is always fun.   Always fun to see the Illinois people come out here.

Q.   Did the Hawkeye guy (inaudible)? 
STEVE STRICKER:   I don't think so.   He was all right.   He got a lot of Hawkeye love yesterday.

Q.   Can you talk about the numbers this weekend?   What do you need to shoot to try and win this thing again?
STEVE STRICKER:   Well, I'm going to have to come out with a good one tomorrow.   I mean, scoring is good.   It's probably going to take 20‑under to win, so I've got to get‑‑ or more.   So I've got to have a good weekend.   It's out there.   The conditions are perfect.   The course is in perfect shape.   The wind was down today for us, so it's out there.   You've just got to take care of your own business and make some putts. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I did.   Good to see.   I always root for Jerry and saw that he shot 7‑under today, so a good round and got himself right in contention.   It's fun to see.   I'll give him something to shoot at.

Q.   You've had a lot of weekend magic here.   Do you think there's some more in your game for this weekend?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I sure hope so.   I'm excited to give it another go.   I'm only three back, but I'm kicking myself right now for that little putt right there.   I wish I could have got that in there.   But three back is not insurmountable.   It'll be fun.   I'll try anyways and see what I have for this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT