U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Not a lot of red numbers out there today, Steve, and you were able to put 1‑up.   Talk about the round. 
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, tough day, you know.   Enough breeze to make things difficult.   It came out of the north.   So usually courses play a little bit tougher when the wind is out of the north.
There's a lot of good holes here.   Even the short ones are difficult.   You can't take a break on any hole out here, otherwise it can jump up and get you.   It's demanding right from the get‑go.
Yeah, I played solid all day.   I had a lot of opportunities.   I missed a couple that I thought I could have made or it looked good.   And then 3‑putting 16, actually 15, 3‑putting 15 kind of hurt a little bit.   All in all a good day.   It was a good up and down on the last to keep the momentum going. 

Q.   Nice going.   U.S. Open contention, right on top and in contention?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yes, it's nice.   And what's even nicer is we finished today.   We don't have to get back up and get out here early and then sit around and wait for your tee times.   So that enabled us a few extra hours of sleep which is always a good thing heading into the weekend here.

Q.   Did you think you'd get the whole thing in?
STEVE STRICKER:   No, I didn't think we had a chance.   But when we got around here and teed off on 14, we realized it was still pretty bright.   The sun was up.   I think the pace of play picked up.   Guys were thinking about finishing and trying to get in.   Yeah, we didn't think we had a chance.   But right when we got to 14, 15 we thought it was doable.

Q.   How do you balance the pace and a turnaround where every shot matters?
STEVE STRICKER:   The guys ahead of us, typically pretty fast players, Dustin and Colsaerts and Bubba, they're quick players.   All of a sudden they got put on the clock at about the 8th hole, somewhere around there.   Things picked up quite a bit.
It's important for guys to finish just for this reason.   It's a big break for us to finish and get that extra rest, because it's two long days and you need all the rest you can get.

Q.   How were the greens different throughout the day as it dried out and compare that to yesterday as well?
STEVE STRICKER:   They're still pretty soft.   They're fast in spots.   You have to pay attention.   A lot of pins are put right on the edge of the little ridge or the fall off and if you get it going past there with any speed, they're going to run four or five feet by.   So they've put the pins in some pretty tricky spots at time.   So you have to pay attention and not try to get above it.   If you stay below the hole you're usually in pretty good shape here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT