THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about playing with Rory, what a great group today, and you matched Rory shot for shot, 31 on the front.   
STEVE STRICKER:   We had a great time.   It was fun to play with the guys.   They've got a ton of talent, beautiful swings.   They can overpower a golf course.   They've got a lot of offense.   It's tough not to fall into the trap of just watching them, but I stuck to my game plan and did the things that I do best and played well today.   Got off to a good start.   
   
 Q.   Is this maybe the easiest you've seen this course play?  
STEVE STRICKER:   I think so.   I think it's a little soft.   The greens are receptive so far.   The fairways are in good shape.   We had very little to no wind today, this morning, and the greens are rolling good.   So I think that all leads to good scoring, and it was nice and warm.   The ball is going, and guys, I think, the more they go around here are feeling more comfortable over the years and leading to the good scores today.   
   
 Q.   Just about everybody who's stood there today has said I stuck to my game plan.   Do you have to have one on this golf course?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Well, yeah, you just have to be patient.   You have to know when to be aggressive and know when not to be, and you've got to step up there and suck it up and hit some key shots at times.   There's a lot of water in play.   There's big numbers everywhere potentially, so you just have to do your thing and play away when you don't have a good number or a good feeling about the hole and then take advantage when you do.   
   
 Q.   The other guys you played with obviously also played very well.   Everybody feeds on that kind of thing where guys start playing good.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, no doubt about it.   Our whole group was 2‑under through three holes today, the first three holes, so we all got off to a hot start and got going early, and that's always good when the whole group is doing that and you can all feed off one another.   I made six birdies today and never had the honor.   But that's all right.   It's a good start for me around here, and looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You were equally surprised when the guy did not introduce Adam as the Masters champion?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, as soon as Adam hit I was like, I was a little disappointed they didn't introduce you as the Masters champion.   He had a little chuckle, and he said, yeah, that's probably the most disappointing thing that will happen to me all week.   I'm sure he was looking forward to that announcement, and he didn't get it.   Maybe tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT