WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2013
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How are things different when Nicki caddies for you? 
STEVE STRICKER:   You know, I've got to do a little more of the work.   She doesn't really do the yardages or anything, so I'll pace off all the yardages.   We'll talk about the wind direction and all that, and we really don't talk about club selection, either. 
So she's out there giving me a lot of moral support, talking positively all the time.   She does really good with all that kind of stuff.   It's just nice having her out there.   We don't get to do it very often anymore, and we try to do it once a year maybe, and yeah, it's always fun to kind of relive some of the memories when she was caddying for me.

Q.   How was it playing?
STEVE STRICKER:   A little more difficult.   The wind was up a little bit and the greens were a little firmer and faster, a little burned out in some areas they got pretty crusty and dry, so the speed of the greens was definitely a little faster in some spots today. 
You had to be cautious.   The wind made it difficult on a few holes, trying to get the ball close.   So it was a little bit more of a challenge today. 

Q.   How did you feel about your putting overall today? 
STEVE STRICKER:   Good.   Yeah, felt like I did a lot of good things.   There was some holes in the middle of the round there where I didn't hit too many good iron shots, kind of miss‑hit a couple.   Just never really gave myself any good birdie opportunities today.   So just kind of plodded along, made my pars and tried to stay out of the trouble. 
But yeah, I've got to do a little better job of that tomorrow and hopefully get some more birdie looks at it. 

Q.   How do you feel about how difficult or the possibility of anybody overtaking Tiger? 
STEVE STRICKER:   It's going to be tough.   What does he have, maybe a four‑shot‑‑ yeah, it's going to be tough.   You know what kind of closer he is.   When he gets the lead in a golf tournament, it's tough.   He doesn't let too many guys in usually when he gets the lead. 
We all got our work cut out for us, and you know, we're going to have to go out and try to make birdies on a difficult golf course, which is hard to do. 

Q.   With these kind of results, will you consider playing more this year?
STEVE STRICKER:   No, I'm really good with my decision.   I really feel content and happy with the decision I made.   You know, playing well probably because of that decision, too.   So I'm still working at my game a lot, I still practice, and I get excited to come out here and play. 
So, no, I think I'm going to stick to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT