U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 28, 2019
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you play much better?  
STEVE STRICKER: You know, it was solid.  Both days were really solid.  Drove the ball well, hit a lot of good iron shots, and starting to make some putts, which is fun to see.   
So yeah, it was a good two days, solid two days.   
 Q.  A lot of motivation this week?  I know you had a chance to win your event, didn't happen.  I'm sure you'd still love to win a major and a USGA event.  
STEVE STRICKER: For sure, yeah.  A lot of motivation that I didn't get it done last week.  It stings a little bit.  I've talked about that earlier this week, so I'm determined to play well, and luckily I have.   
I feel good going around this course.  It fits my eye well.  Small targets on the greens, so if you get it on the green sometimes, you have a makeable birdie putt.  It's a treat to go around here and play, and I like what I've been doing so far.   
 Q.  Have you played a lot of the Ben and Bill designs, and does their style normally fit your eye pretty well?  
STEVE STRICKER: No, I've enjoyed some of their courses over the years, yeah, for sure.  This one especially, it's got a very old feel to it, old-time look and feel, and even though I think it's not even 20 years old, I guess.   
I love the layout.  It's in great shape, and it's a good one.   
 Q.  Were there any really good saves besides your birdies today?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I made a good save at 14.  I drove it way to the right in the heather, in the long stuff, hacked it out, went over on the left side of the rough, and I had 103 or 104 to the hole out of the rough and hit a sand wedge in there to about four feet, made that.  So that felt like I kind of stole one there.  That was a good one to get.   
 Q.  Any plans for anything this afternoon, or are you just going to rest now?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, practice maybe a little bit, rest up, get ready.  It'll be a long weekend.  I'm sure it'll be a late tee time.   
But yeah, my family is here, so we'll just hang out and probably watch golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT