THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2012
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This atmosphere, how much more difficult is it to deal with those fans?   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of expectations on us.   We put a lot of expectations on ourselves to perform.   You know, and sometimes it's good and bad.   I mean, when you're going good, it's great, and when you're not, it can be a negative, because you feel like you're letting the crowd down.   
But the atmosphere was tremendous here all week.   It was so much fun.   We'll pick ourselves up, dust ourselves off, and we're resilient.   As golfers you have got to be.   It's the nature of the game.   I've been down in some depths before that you've just got to, like I said, pick yourself up and play golf again.   That's all it is, is‑‑ we'll be disappointed for sure, but we'll all be all right.  
   
 Q.   Is the difference you're usually disappointed for yourself, but how disappointed are you for all the people that followed you, that are pulling for you?   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I feel‑‑ I am disappointed that I let 11 other players down and the captains, and probably there at the end, Tiger and I at the end there to probably get some points.   And I didn't.   So that's disappointing.   
   
 Q.   There's always an extra pressure being a captain's pick, just because for obvious reasons.   Was there any extra pressure for you with that?   
STEVE STRICKER:   No, I felt like I was a part of this team.   Towards the end of the season, I played well.   I was really one birdie short of making the team on my own.   So I felt like I deserved to be on the team.   That wasn't it.   And I felt like my game was in good shape.   
I drove the ball great this week, hit some nice irons here and there, not real consistent enough to put any points on the board, though, and we ran into a couple good teams.   Colsaerts the second day, you know, against Tiger and I played unbelievable, and Luke Donald hit some clutch shots yesterday against us.   So it was tough.   
Martin played well today, too, and I just really didn't‑‑ I didn't put enough pressure on him, really, to get anything done.   
   
 Q.   Are you a little surprised over the three days that you didn't hit more putts like you normally would?   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   And like I say, I've been putting a lot and practicing a lot, maybe putting too much emphasis on it.   But it's‑‑ I've had poor putting years before.   I hit a lot of good putts that don't go in, and making this last‑‑ the last couple on 16 and 18 when I had to shows me something, too.   But still, just very disappointed.  
   
 Q.   How much do you want to play at Gleneagles?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Oh, I don't know.   I'll be 47 then.   You know, I don't know.   This is a lot of fun.   It would always be fun to be a part of it, but we'll see.   It's too early to tell right now.   I'm glad I've got eight weeks off right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT