DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2012
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This week, first off I thought a solid week for you.   I know you always want to win, but do you take a lot of positives out of this week?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, a lot of positives and some‑‑ I'm hitting the ball well, I'm just not scoring like I normally score.   A few putts here and there, a few up‑and‑downs here and there, a couple mental mistakes, kind of like just some lapses in proper judgment.   I don't know if it's because all that's riding on the line.   You're trying to make this team, you've got that in the back of your mind, you've got the TOUR Championship, trying to get there, all that stuff.   So it's a mentally trying week because there's so much at stake.   
   
 Q.   I've seen you play a lot of golf, especially since the John Deere, and I've seen you hit a lot of balls on the range.   I think you're close.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I'll tell you what, I haven't driven it as good as I've driven it the last‑‑ since I got this new driver at the British Open.   My old driver broke, and I'm in the new 913 Titleist, and it's been really good.   I'm driving it really straight.   A couple irons here and there have been my bugaboo, but then hit some real nice ones.   But it is close, you're right, and just keep plugging away.  
   
 Q.   We've talked to some of the younger guys, Nick and Dustin, Rickie Fowler, about the anticipation of maybe getting that call.   Are you nervous like they are or are you a little more calm about things?  
STEVE STRICKER:   I'm calm.   Hopefully I have a good feeling I'm going to get that call.   I've talked to Davis enough, I've talked to enough other players that are on the team, and it sounds good for me.   And it looks good for a couple of these younger guys that have been playing well, and it's fun to see that everybody is kind of coming together at this time and playing well and moving in the right direction.   
I've been in this spot two other times, one time where I didn't get the call‑‑ well, I got a call but not the right one, and then I did get a good one from Azinger.   Like I say, it's still there, you're thinking about it a lot, and whether that affects how you play this week, I think it does because‑‑ especially the younger players that haven't been through it before.   So it's tough.   
   
 Q.   At this stage of your career, how important is it to get that call?   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, you know, it would be real important because it's right there in my backyard.   It's two hours from home.   It's in Illinois.   I went to school at the University of Illinois, which is a couple hours away, so I have a lot of family and friends in the area, and it would be a great treat for me to come and play there.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT