WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You haven't played in a long time competitively.   How would you assess your round?  
STEVE STRICKER:   A little scrappy at times.   I drove the ball good.   Didn't really get it on the greens as much as I would like.   My short game was really good.   I putted and chipped the ball really well, so I was in every hole except for a poor drive off No. 1.   I hit it in the desert, but I was in every hole.   When you get it up‑and‑down and a player like Kevin has been ‑‑ you know, he played well and he hit it on the greens.   That demoralizes a guy when you continue to get it up‑and‑down on somebody like that.   So I just kept hanging in there.   Missed it in the right spots to give myself the opportunities.   
It's a tough course.   It's tough to get the ball close.   The greens are firm, but all in all I'm happy to move on.  
   
 Q.   You got a little attention from playing with Tiger yesterday.   I know that he mentioned to us that he feels like he's taking a bad shot.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Was this after ‑‑ you talked to him after I ‑‑  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Same things.   I just noticed that he was lining up a little left, taking it back a little shut and letting the putter drift a little bit in the end of his back swing.   So I went a round with him and tried to help him.   He's so talented.   I mean, by the time we were finished, it was the pierce stroke I have seen.   And it looked like Tiger evolved.   I hope he gained some confidence from that yesterday.   
He's a friend.   He asked me what I think and I try to help.   I'm not trying to get him to putt like me or anything like that.   I'm just trying to lend a pair of eyes, you know.   That's what I saw.   He putted great at the end of everything yesterday and hopefully he can continue.   
   
 Q.   You brought up getting up‑and‑down.   It seems like the guys that have won on this course with these greens are the guys that hit the ball in the hole:   Ogilvy, Donald.   Just talk about how important something like that is in match play and on this course specifically?  
STEVE STRICKER:   You are right.   It is important.   This course there is a lot of trickery up by the greens.   You know, there is severe ‑‑ if the ball rolls away from you, it's tough to get it in the right spot at times.   And my game wasn't so sharp, so hopefully clean that up.   You are right.   If you are in every hole, you get it up‑and‑down, that puts a lot of pressure on the other guy.   
   
 Q.   You are now a veteran with a lot of Ryder Cup, Presidents Cup experience, a lot of match play experience.   How important is that in an event like this?   
STEVE STRICKER:   It's important, but it's still hard.   You are going around here and we haven't played a match play since the end of last year.   And it just ‑‑ it's uncommon for us.   It's unusual.   So it's hard to feel ‑‑ it was hard to finish off the match.   You are not in that situation very much where you are ‑‑ you no, it's 2 up with two to play.   You are not sure what to do, whether to be aggressive, be cautious.   It's a little uncharted territories for us, I think.   But it's fun.   It's a lot of fun.   And I'm happy to be moving on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT