CHEVRON WORLD CHALLENGE
December 1, 2011
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good position after day one.   How does your game feel right now?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   Pretty good.   You know, it was a good day.   Conditions got very difficult, you know, probably on our seventh hole, sixth or seventh hole it really ‑‑ the fan turned on and made club selection pretty tough.   So getting in at three under, making that long putt on the last definitely helps, and looking forward to the rest of the tournament the next three days.   
   
 Q.   How was that ‑‑ obviously it went from being golf in a dome to lights out.   It was pretty tough to make pars.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   It was tough.   It was tough just to grab the right club and commit to the shot because the wind was all over the place, and you never knew where it was coming from for sure, and at what strength it was coming from.   There would be times where it laid down and then it would pick up really gusty, and it made club selection very hard.  
All you can do is try your hardest and try your best and commit to the shot I think is the biggest thing.   Pick the club that you believe is the right one and commit to it.  
   
 Q.   Are you feeling better, Steve?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   You know, I am.   I've got a little cold going on, but all in all feeling pretty good.  
   
 Q.   What would you guess was that distance on the 18 putt?  
STEVE STRICKER:   It was probably a 40‑footer probably.   
   
 Q.   Just a couple thoughts about you've played obviously with Tiger in Melbourne, played with him again today.   What are you seeing out of him?  
STEVE STRICKER:   I think he's playing great.   He's striking the ball so solidly.   His trajectory on his shots is really good.   You know, he got a little unlucky on a couple of irons that he hit.   You know, he hit them right where he was looking and either a little short or a little long.   It was just tough out there, but he's putting better and hitting it better, driving it better.   It looks like he's getting a lot of confidence back again.   It looks like the Tiger of old really, and it's great to see.   We need him out is there playing and playing well.   
   
 Q.   Thanks, Steve.   Appreciate it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT