THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2011
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A lot happened to a lot of guys on the last two or three holes. You and Graeme weren't the only ones. How come all of a sudden things got tough with about three or four holes to go?  
 STEVE STRICKER: I don't know. They're good holes. There's a lot of water involved. You know, I don't know. Nerves probably getting everybody. It's tough finishing holes. You know, the good pin at 16 all the way in the back, and then we played kind of into a left-to-right wind on the last couple holes. Maybe that had something to do with it, too.  
  
  Q. That being said, you're still clearly in the mix. How do you feel going into this afternoon?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, good. I've got to kind of erase that 3-iron shot I hit on the last hole. I did a lot of good things in that round, so keep that in mind, and if I could have made a couple more putts -- I burned the edges on a few holes coming in, and if those go in, could have been a different story. But just got to keep hanging in there. It's that kind of course that tests your patience and tests your mettle. You've just got to keep plugging.  
  
  Q. Instead of just 18 holes of this test, you add an extra eight or nine holes; what a day.   
 STEVE STRICKER: We're going to be tired at the end of the day, no doubt, mentally probably more than anything. You know it's going to be a long day, so you prepare for that last night and come out and I think try and maintain a calmness and kind of an even keel all day will help in that, too, and that's kind of my goal today is just to try to maintain kind of an even keel and try not to get too up or too down just knowing that we've got a lot of holes to play.  
  
  Q. Did you feel something kind of wrong when you made contact on the second shot?  
 STEVE STRICKER: At 18? Yeah, it wasn't a very good transition, kind of hung back on my right side and flipped forward on me. I was just trying to send it in the middle of the green there and get my 4 and move on. But you know what, all in all a good bogey and still keeps me right in there.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT