THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2011
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. If you could just talk about the delay and then getting out there and trying to get off to a good start knowing that you didn't have a whole lot of golf to play today.   
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, those are tough days. We're not put in that situation too many times where you sit around all day and then tee off at 6:50 or 7:00 at night. A little bit weird but got five good holes under my belt and played them at a couple under. So it's going to be a long day tomorrow. We've got to get some rest tonight and try to stay as patient as you can tomorrow because it's a long day.  
  
  Q. A little strange having the announcer say, "With the 6:50 tee time..."?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, that's weird, just to get your bearings because you're inside all day and you go outside and it's just something that we're not used to doing. You've got to get your body going again, and that's what I tried to do before going out there, and it worked.  
  
  Q. You've got a lot of golf in front of you tomorrow. What's the approach tonight and then tomorrow, as well?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, you've got to take it easy, got to take it easy tomorrow. Come out with some intensity but not -- knowing that you have a long day. We have 24 holes ahead of us, so just stay patient, not try to look too far ahead and all those things that you try to do normally but knowing that you've got -- shoot, we got more than 24 holes.   
  
  Q. Talk about today as a whole, knowing you only have five or six holes, do you press a little more or were you able to kind of focus on tee to green?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, just focus on tee to green, didn't try to get ahead of myself at all. Knowing that there's some good scores out there because the conditions got softer, you want to get off to a good start, and I did. So that's the key. But there's just a long ways to go.  
  
  Q. Talk about the conditions today, how they were different from the first two days?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, but not bad. I think they probably had those drying systems on right away, and the course was in great shape. The greens were good. Obviously a lot softer. The balls were holding a lot better, but still in good shape.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT