BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2010
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE STRICKER: Not very sharp today. Kind of didn't drive it in the fairway, wrong clubs off some of the par-3s, mud ball here on the last hole to top it all off. Putted a little bit better at times, and just can't get it in there, in the hole, at times. But tough course, too.   
  
  Q. Talk about that five-footer for birdie.   
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, in between clubs out there, too, and had a downhill lie in the fairway. I couldn't get a sand wedge there so I'm trying to hit a little soft wedge, and tough to do in a club wind. Yeah, just not good numbers, not the right clubs sometimes, and not making anything.   
  
  Q. Once again down the stretch a lot of golf to be played. Is it almost too much golf at this point?   
 STEVE STRICKER: You know, it's tough coming off of a Labor Day finish, and then trying to -- you look at every player out here, nobody looks very happy.   
  
  Q. They've got to do something about this, don't they?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it would be a good off week. But you know, guys play a ton down the stretch trying to make it into these Playoffs, and then once you get in here you've got to play a bunch once you're in them. So yeah, it's tough. Not that it can't be done, but it's just -- I haven't played three all year, and then -- three in a row all year, and then you've got it do it at the end of the year. It makes it pretty tough.   
  
  Q. I wanted to ask you about Wales. In your experience in these things, have you felt that the pairings mattered much or does it come down to just guys playing well?  
 STEVE STRICKER: No, I think the pairings mean a lot. Amongst the team?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I think it's a big deal. I think you've got to feel comfortable with the guy you're out there with and know one another's games and not feel bad if you're going to hit him into a tough situation. Yeah, I think it means a lot.  
  
  Q. What about match play? I know you guys don't play it all year, but is that any adjustment? Maybe you do that in practice rounds, get a little game going, it's not like you don't know how to do it --  
 STEVE STRICKER: No, I don't think there's too much adjustment. You just -- instead of trying to beat up on the course, you're trying to beat your opponent. And sometimes, you know, he may be out of a hole and it may force you to do something a little bit different. So you've just got to pay attention to what they're doing a little bit more than normal. No, other than that you're still trying to play good golf.  
  
  Q. Can I get your thoughts on East Lake?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it's a great course. You know, it's tough. It's usually in great condition. You know, it's probably one of the top ones we play all year long.   
  
  Q. Have you tried to wrap yourself around what it would be like to win $10 million in one day?  
 STEVE STRICKER: That's really what it is is a shootout basically is what it comes down to. No, I really haven't thought about it. Obviously I've tried to stay in the top 5 going into there and see what happens there, but no, I really haven't thought about it. It's a lot of money, though, if you do think about it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT