DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2010
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That's not easily done on this golf course, especially with the wind today.   
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it was a tough day today, wore me out. I'm tired. It was a mentally challenging day. A lot of the winds were crosswinds, you're not quite sure if it was helping or hurting so a lot of indecision on shots, which makes for a pretty difficult round. But I played well, got it on the greens and kept making pars and moving on.  
  
  Q. No. 5 played one of the most difficult holes on the golf course and 18 downwind, it's not an easy birdie.   
 STEVE STRICKER: No, you're right. Some of the holes that were downwind played very difficult. No. 5, the pin was all the way in the back corner, tough to get it back there. 18, you know, where we were, it's tough to get it onto the green, to stop it, because it's blowing so hard downwind. You've got to pick your spots and be aggressive in some spots and cautious in other spots. But yeah, it's a challenge out there.   
  
  Q. How was it for you out there?  
 STEVE STRICKER: It's a challenge, it was tough. With the wind, the conditions made it very difficult. Matt and I were saying that a lot of the holes played crosswind so you didn't know whether it was hurting or helping a little bit, and sometimes that makes a big difference around here. It was a challenge to pull the correct club, and once you got on the greens, it was buffering around pretty well. It was a challenge all day.  
  
  Q. Your experience of being here before and succeeding here before, does that help you at all in these situations where the elements are sort of testing you?  
 STEVE STRICKER: No doubt about it. Any time you can go around and feel comfortable on a course you've had some past success at, it gives you kind of a good feeling on the inside, you know, knowing that you've played well here before. But you still have to do it. That's the other thing. You've still got to pull the shots and hit good ones and move on, so I've done that for two rounds and I'm right in there and looking forward to the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT