PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2010
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE STRICKER: The wind died down a little bit for us halfway into our round and conditions were great. They are soft, so I think we caught a little bit of a break, other than having to wait around all day to start to play.  
  
  Q. Seemed like you were hitting it well?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I hit some good putts, misread a few, made a couple good par saves and just kept the round going and made a good one at the end-to-end the day. So overall, I didn't make a bogey, and one birdie, so overall pretty good.  
  
  Q. How is the course playing?  
 STEVE STRICKER: It's playing good. It's set up real fair. Conditions are soft. The greens got a little chewed up this afternoon, because they are so soft.   
 And you know, we didn't make a lot of putts in our group, but they are tough to putt. They are very subtle, so it felt really good.  
  
  Q. Is it a different mentality when you know that you have to come back and finish a round in the morning?  
 STEVE STRICKER: We have a long day tomorrow. We have five holes and then another 18, probably just keep right going, so it's going to be a long day, but if you can get on a roll and get momentum going, just got to make a quick turnaround here, get some rest and get right back out.   
 I would rather keep going than sit around like I did today. Hopefully the fog is less tomorrow morning but odds are it could happen again. Hopefully just get everybody going and it will be good.   
  
  Q. What did you do?   
 STEVE STRICKER: My wife came in so I spent a little time with them, so it went by pretty quick. We are a half hour away from here.   
  
  Q. What was the standing ovation like on the first?   
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it was pretty cool. Pretty nice welcome I got there on the first tee and that got me a little bit. You know, it's pretty cool to come up and get that sort of reception at the start of play. You know, you want to get off to a good start, too. You don't want to duck-hook one or get into trouble right away. Fortunately I got off to a good start and hit a lot of good, quality shots early in the round and all day, really.   
 It was nice, I don't get it very often, so it's nice to be here and pretty special.   
Аы  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT