JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2018
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about today's round.  Sitting at two; not the greatest, but it could be worse.  
STEVE STRICKER: I'm at one; Zach was at two.  I didn't do many good things really.  Hit a lot of greens, but just not really close enough to be birdie opportunities really.  And then when I did, didn't make some that I could have.   
But, yeah, it was pretty lackluster.  Our whole group was pretty lackluster really.  We're a long ways back already and it's going to take a good one over the in next three days to get in there.   
 Q.  It's not a spot you're familiar with being so far back, but it's a place you can score.  You like the course.  You feel like the number is out there for you?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah.  You know, I've got good feelings going around here.  Obviously I would've loved to get off to a 4-, 5-under round today, 6-under, something like that, but it's going to be somewhere I'm going to have to come from behind and try to put up a good one tomorrow, first of all, and see if I can't get many some putts to roll in.   
 Q.  You talked yesterday about how you've been able to put three rounds together and then there is the one off round.  
STEVE STRICKER: This is the bad one.   
 Q.  Is this the bad one?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, maybe.  I like your thinking.  Yeah, hopefully we got it out of the way.  You know, it's just one of those days where you feel like you needed to make birdies.  When you're not, you feel like you're getting lapped and you're getting behind.  It's tough to play that way.   
So hopefully tomorrow I can get off to a good start and keep that momentum going.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the putter was working a little bit better today?  
STEVE STRICKER: Sometimes; sometimes not.  You know, I hit some good putts but I left a lot of putts short.  Had some right in the jaws of the hole and left them short.  Had one at 8.  Had a couple others that I just didn't get to the hole today.   
With this humidity the greens tend to slow up, and I just didn't compensate for that.   
 Q.  Yesterday you talked about how difficult the 18th hole was.  You knew that coming in today.  Tell me how you approached it and what happened.  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I hit an awful drive and it rattled around in the trees.  I think it even kicked further back.  Had a good look at par though.  I wedged it out in the fairway and then hit a 9-iron in there to about 12 feet or so but didn't make it.  Hit it over the lip.   
But, yeah, it's a good hole.  You got to drive it in play, and then it's not done there yet either.  You need to hit a good second shot.  Water looms, sand, everything.  It's got it all there.   
 Q.  When the three of you were talking on the course, were you guys able to kind of come to like one common theme of why today was lackluster?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I don't know.  You just have groups and days like that.  Seemed like our whole group was kind of that way.  Just never really got any momentum going amongst the three of us.   
Zach fought back nice.  He got off to a poor start and then fought it back nice on the last nine holes.  So he brought it back good, and Wes and I just kind of stayed where we were at.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT