WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 8, 2010
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE STRICKER: This is a tough course, and if you get going in the wrong direction it can be even more difficult. You need to hit the fairways, which is hard to do here. It's a tough driving course. And the greens are -- they've picked up a little speed to them and a little firmness to them, and they're tricky. So it's not a bad course when you get it going in the right direction, but if you get off a little bit, it can get tough pretty quick.  
  
  Q. Why do you think you were successful today?  
 STEVE STRICKER: You know, I just played my game all week. I didn't drive it as well today as I had all week. I didn't make a lot of putts, but I was pretty consistent, didn't get in a lot of trouble at times and when I did, I escaped with bogeys and moved on.   
 I started off kind of bad. I hit a couple loose shots and then kind of righted the ship and played pretty good from there on in.  
  
  Q. You've played with Tiger a lot and obviously he struggled very badly this week. How surprising was that to you?   
 STEVE STRICKER: It's very surprising. But you know, in this game you need to give total attention and total focus. We all know he's got a lot of other things going on in his life right now, and the game of golf is hard for him right now. And like I say, you need your full attention and a clear mind to play this game, especially when it comes to putting and just thinking, thinking your way around the course.   
 You need some positive thoughts, and like I say, a clear mind. He probably doesn't have that right now, but he'll get it. I've got no worries that he'll find it again and get back to where he once was.  
  
  Q. Give me your thoughts about the Ryder Cup. Are you expecting him to make the team?  
 STEVE STRICKER: I hope so, I really do. That's still two months away, so it doesn't really matter how anyone is playing at this time right now. It's still a long ways away. I talked to him earlier this year, and he sounded like he wanted to be a part of it. I'd love to be his partner again and hopefully he wants to be there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT