MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (No microphone.)
 STEVE STRICKER: It was a struggle all week. Maybe mentally more than anything. I wasn't patient, I didn't -- I was on the edge of everything. The edge of a good shot to a bad shot. 
 Today I had some shots there -- it's just a fine line here -- it always seemed like I was on the wrong side, it seemed like. But that could be just the frame of mind too. 
 I hung in there, I did some good things, and did some poor things, but hung in there. 

 Q. You talked about your irons and you need to improve that. What do you do to get better?
 STEVE STRICKER: I don't know, I may try something different. I've been monkeying with some different sets the last year or two and now might be a good time to switch it up, just to get a different look and a different feel down there. So I may do that. Don't know yet.

 Q. That's been awhile though?
 STEVE STRICKER: Yes, it has.

 Q. We talked about that before. Four years, right?
 STEVE STRICKER: It's been probably longer than that. 

 Q. What specifically can you say, what kind of model are you looking at?
 STEVE STRICKER: The AP 2s. Looking at those maybe. Which I've had in the bag over the years. I like the way I hit them, I just couldn't pull the trigger on them and I may do it this time. 

 Q. Just to change it up. When do you play next?
 STEVE STRICKER: New Orleans. So I got next week off, play New Orleans, probably then Wachovia and then PLAYERS. 

 Q. You had a good shot at 16 today. Can you talk about that hole just in particular the challenges of it and that hole location today, it's a traditional pin. Is that a hole that you look at as always a birdie hole or you just want to try to hit a good shot?
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, you can look at it as a birdie hole. You got to get a little aggressive with it, take enough club to feed it off the back, but there's a fine line there, you hit short of that bank and it rolls back, you hit too far and it rolls past it. You got to hit a good shot there. 
 But you can make a birdie there. But you got to be careful there, too, because you're a little flick away from hitting it in the water, too. I mean, the water is right there, bunker is right there, but, yeah, you can look at it as a birdie hole.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 STEVE STRICKER: There? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 STEVE STRICKER: Don't see too many guys hit it in the water there. 

 Q. Pretty bad shot. 
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah. Norman comes to mind. But it can happen. But you see a lot of guys bail out there too because they're thinking of the water. You see a lot of guys finish and they leave it out to the right just because they know if they over cook it, they can put it in the water. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 STEVE STRICKER: 14 was about four feet. 
 15 is about a 15-footer. 
 16 is about three feet. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 STEVE STRICKER: I don't know, I'm playing well. I don't know. I got off to a poor start, my whole front side was poor every day. And that's tough to shoot a good score when you play like that. I think my best was even par I think for the week. Other than that I was always over par. 
 You can make it up on the back, but you would rather make the turn even or a little bit better than even and then shoot a couple 2- or 3-under on the back. And I just was never able to get anything going on the front. 

 Q. What do you do to change things up in the future? 
 STEVE STRICKER: I don't know. The more times you play the more you feel comfortable with it. You got to be on it. You got to be on. Especially with your irons. And my short game was good this week, my putting was kind of marginal. I didn't really make a whole lot of putts. 
 But the more times you go around here the better. I was just happy that I got in a couple more rounds this weekend and every day you learn from the experience being around here. Hopefully, I'll get back here and do better next year. 

 Q. Did you have any problems with the pine cones in your line, in the lines and stuff like that in the trees?
 STEVE STRICKER: Those windy days, those first couple of days you had to take your time and move them out of there. But nothing that would affect the ball or anything. 

 Q. One of those fell in Phil's line. The ball hit it and jumped six inches to the left. 
 STEVE STRICKER: Oh, my God. And it's not even that windy. From No. 2 green? 

 Q. Just as he was drawing the putter back. And his ball hit it and it just jumped. 
 STEVE STRICKER: Wow, that's bizarre. You got enough tough things to worry about here, let alone that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT