THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2009
Steve Stricker
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Lasted maybe a little longer than you wanted to, but he was loving you this morning; you've got to be loving him right now.   
 TIGER WOODS: Man, I helped out on two holes pretty much -- well, three holes all day, 17, 18 this morning and then here. Otherwise I was cheerleading all day.   
  
  Q. Seven birdies for you, Steve. Quite a day. What really got you going?   
 STEVE STRICKER: Well, the putter obviously was my friend this afternoon. What he did this morning's round really made me want to do something and step up a little bit. And fortunately I was rolling it really well and giving myself lots of opportunities. We were looking at the putts and reading them and I was starting them on my line, so it was a good thing.   
  
  Q. What are you thinking, you're winning, then Ishikawa makes a bomb out much nowhere.   
 TIGER WOODS: Like I told him coming to the tee, we make three, we will win the match, I don't think they will make two, so just go ahead, play our own game and make birdie.   
  
  Q. What do you have to say about your partner today?   
 TIGER WOODS: He was a stud all day. He played so solid today, and not just this afternoon, but all day. He was consistent. He made a bunch of putts this afternoon, but you don't realize how good he was driving it and how good he was hitting iron shots to give himself those putts. He was just pouring them in.  
  
  Q. What was the key to your putting this afternoon?   
 STEVE STRICKER: Just made a couple early on and like I said, Tiger and I were both looking at them, and it helps to get two good eyes looking at it and stepping over it and feeling good about the line and trusting that.   
 You know, they just started going in, and you know when they go in, you just keep grinding it out.   
 Yeah, it was, it was a lot of fun. We were playing well together and obviously I had a lot of momentum after what he did in this morning's round, finishing it the way he finished it off. It was a lot of fun. It was a ball.  
  
  Q. As hot as he is, 7-under through 12 holes, are you just getting out of the way early on?   
 TIGER WOODS: I helped him out on one opportunity and I messed up, so it was just one of those things where we were reading them well, and he was hitting putts right on line and center-cutting it.   
  
  Q. You said you were hoping to add a bit to the team, but today you were carrying a little bit; what did it feel like to carry Tiger Woods?   
 STEVE STRICKER: No, I didn't carry him. Like I said, it's easy to play with the guy because we all know what a great player he is, and he putts it great, he gets it up-and-down great, and it takes a lot of pressure off me playing, I'll tell you that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT