WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2009
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Interesting match today with Dustin, two guys that have been playing pretty well, you and he. Talk about your match today.   
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I knew it was going to be a tough one. You know, I never got up more than two until the end there when I won. It was a bit scrappy at times, but I hit a couple wayward shots coming in and got away with them, and he did the same. He kind of let me off the hook there when I hit a bad shot.  
  
  Q. I don't know if you're aware, but you were the only two Americans playing each other.   
 STEVE STRICKER: That's what he said.  
  
  Q. Quite surprising.   
 STEVE STRICKER: It is surprising. Not a lot of Americans in the field to tell you the truth. But yeah, that is surprising.  
  
  Q. Talk about the golf course, new venue. Your thoughts on it?  
 STEVE STRICKER: It's a little to get used to. We got a little bit different wind again today, kind of threw us off at times. The tees were different. You know, it's a little bit to get used to, and the greens are not real fast, but they've got a lot of slope to them so you've got to be careful and be on the right side, otherwise you're in trouble.  
  
  Q. Do you think the more you play this golf course the more you'll learn and become familiar with it?   
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah.  
  
  Q. As far as the greens being so undulating, how much importance does that place on your short game?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it's just proper placement into the greens. You really have to make sure you're not going to short side yourself because if you do, even though they're not real fast, you still have a hard time getting it up-and-down. You're not quite sure sometimes because it is a new venue. You're not quite sure where to hit it. Off the tee it was difficult at times today with the wind, so it's a challenge out there, and I think as the week gets going on, I think guys will feel a little bit more comfortable with their game and the course as it goes on.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT