THE 50TH BOB HOPE CLASSIC HOSTED BY ARNOLD PALMER
January 25, 2009
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about where you started the day. I'm sure it's a little disappointing, isn't it?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it is disappointing. It's just a couple of bad swings that really cost me big time. And I hit them in spots where I couldn't recover from them.   
 I just got out of sorts there a little bit on those couple of shots, and it was a tough day. It was tough to judge the wind. We would feel it in our face one hole, and the same hole it would feel downwind. So it was all over the place. It was tough to pick a correct club, and it was hard to feel comfortable with anything. And it showed for me a couple of times today.   
  
  Q. Specifically on the 10th, it's a little bit hard to tell watching on the TV, but were those shots affected by the wind or did you just hit a poor shot?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Well, yeah, well, it was blowing pretty good there at 10, and I just cut it a little bit instead of drawing it. And I needed to turn it over a little bit. And then once it got out into the middle there, the wind just ripped it right to the right, and that one hurt the most.   
 I don't know what to say it was just two bad shots, and it was a tough day, though. It was tough to pull a club.   
  
  Q. It looked like you were over the ball, and then you backed off on 10 with one severe gust. Did that kind of throw you off?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Well, I backed off a couple of times there trying to wait for it to calm down, and it never really calmed down. And at some point, I got to hit the shot. And it didn't start off on a bad line the wind just ripped it right straight to the right and it was out of bounds. I didn't even go over there and look at it, if it was out of bounds by a lot or a little, I don't know. But it's a little disappointing.   
  
  Q. Certainly the conditions were really difficult to make any sort of comeback?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, very much. So even after that, I was down. I guess I was down four, and I'm thinking that I still have a chance. I wasn't giving up. And I hit two good shots at 11 and didn't make the birdie, and Pat did. So now I'm down by five. And at that point, I'm just trying to salvage something and trying to make some birdies, but nothing happened today.   
  
  Q. After that there, weren't a lot of guys -- you made pars -- up until the last hole there. There weren't a lot of guys making tons of birdies?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it was tough. They had the pins tucked away in spots and so it was tough to mount a comeback. And that's what's disappointing is if I could have just got through those couple holes and made my pars or a bogey, at the worst, then I would have been in good shape and could have put a little pressure on the leaders coming down in the end.   
 But unfortunately, it's a little tough to recover from a triple and a quad. But overall, if you would have told me I would have played like I did this week coming into the tournament, I still take a lot of positives away, even though today didn't turn out the way I wanted it to.   
  
  Q. Was it a 3-wood?  
 STEVE STRICKER: Yes. 3-wood.   
  
  Q. Was it the wind on --  
 STEVE STRICKER: No, it started to the right and just stayed there. It was a bad shot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT