THE RYDER CUP
September 19, 2008
Ben Curtis
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tough match out there to be the first loss for the United States, but what was the match like for you? 
 BEN CURTIS: You know, we kind of left each other hanging every hole. We never really played well, the two of us, on any given hole, so it was always one or the other. You know, when you're playing best ball you can't do that. You've got to be both in the fairway, both on the green and give yourself both looks at birdies, and we didn't do that today. 

 Q. First Ryder Cup experience. Was that the reason? 
 BEN CURTIS: I don't think. I mean, not for me. Obviously I was a little nervous, but just playing with the swing, and I was in my head every swing. The last three holes I just said screw it, just go out and hit it. I'm just looking forward to tomorrow, getting a chance to play. Just go out there -- I feel like I'll be ready tomorrow.
 Everybody is playing well. Everybody is playing great. Guys are out there playing their matches now, and you can't ask for anything better. 
 It was a great start for us today, but it's a long way to go. Today was a good steppingstone for us to get off to a good start. A lot of guys brought it back, back side, again in the afternoon. 

 Q. Justin Leonard, talk about his play. He's really playing well. 
 BEN CURTIS: Well, we had no time to watch him. We were out. Obviously playing good. Him and Hunter made a good team. A lot of guys are playing well, so just go and root them on. 
 STEVE STRICKER: We didn't play well together. You know, one guy would have a good hole and the other guy would have a bad hole, and we just didn't give ourselves two looks at birdies any hole, really. And when you're playing best ball, you need to do that. You need to put the pressure on them by having two guys on the green, both with birdie opportunities, and we didn't do that today. 

 Q. You got fantastic support out here. 
 BEN CURTIS: Exactly. I didn't play good enough to really feed off of it, but yeah, I think everybody else is doing that. Steve and I have be ready to play tomorrow. You've got to give credit to Ian and Justin. They played great. They made shots out there, and they gave themselves birdie chances on almost every hole, and that's what we didn't do. 

 Q. When you're out there, how aware are you of how the other matches are going?
 STEVE STRICKER: Very aware. You can hear the roars around the course, a lot of scoreboards around to keep watching, so you're very aware what's going on. You know, you can feed off of that, but still, the match at hand is what's important for us, and we just didn't get it back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT