WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2008
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Were you in the hazard on 18? 
 STEVE STRICKER:  Yeah, I was about a foot in the hazard on the bank. 

 Q.  Not in the water? 
 STEVE STRICKER:  Yeah, not in the water.  We could have probably tried to hit a 6-iron or something like that, you know, to the right of the green, maybe in one of the bunkers or something like that, but I figured I like hitting wedges and I feel like I'm a decent wedge player, so I just took my lumps and laid it up, and I laid it up to a good yardage.  I had a perfect yardage, about 103 yards to the hole, so it worked out. 

 Q.  You were certainly in a zone on the front there.  What was working for you? 
 STEVE STRICKER:  Yeah, all day.  I hit a lot of good shots today.  I had a lot of birdie opportunities, had a lot of birdie opportunities on the back, too.  Some I hit good putts on, some I didn't, but you can't complain.  I left a couple out there, but I made a lot and did a lot of good things today. 

 Q.  Was it tough getting back into it after the delay? 
 STEVE STRICKER:  You know, it wasn't for me because I had a good round going, so I still tried to keep my concentration and keep trying to be aggressive.  I really had nothing to lose.  I wasn't scaring the leaders at all, so I really had nothing to lose and just wanted to keep trying to make birdies and be aggressive. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 STEVE STRICKER:  I don't think so.  Four shots and -- 

 Q.  You must feel awfully good going forward, though? 
 STEVE STRICKER:  Very good.  It's been a good start to the year.  I've got a four-in-a-row stretch coming up here, New Orleans, Houston and The Masters, so I'm trying to build up towards The Masters, and this is a good start. 

 Q.  Are you happy you don't have to come back tomorrow? 
 STEVE STRICKER:  Very much so.  We can get out of here and we're going to catch a plane tonight and go to New Orleans.  We'll get there tonight and get a head start on next week.  It's a bonus to finish and be done with it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT