THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 1, 2017
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  All the work that went into it pays off with a wonderful victory celebration for your team and assistants?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it was a fun ride.  These guys played so well.  They played well all year long and they came here with a lot of confidence.  They continued it right through this tournament here.   
So proud of them all.  They just kept grinding it out and kept fighting, and they never lost the focus.  They played great.   
 Q.  Best way to be a good captain is to have good players.  Your team really performed for you this week.  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, they did.  I don't think they just performed for me.  They just, you know, they feel a special connection to one another.  They love playing with one another and they just have fun with it.  They are competitors.  They are great players.   
 Q.  You've played on a lot of international teams.  All those teams were close.  Would you say this team is unique in that aspect?  
STEVE STRICKER: I would say that.  I've played on some close-knit teams but this might be the closest of them all.  These guys spend a lot of time with each other down in Florida.  They play a lot out on TOUR and then they go back home and they have fun.  I know that they have a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Ready to do this again?  
STEVE STRICKER: I don't know.  I'm tired.  It's a long process.  It was a fun process, but I'm looking forward to playing golf again myself.   
 Q.  What will you take away from this week and when you look at all these guys, because they played so well.  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, they are just great players.  I mean, I marvel at some of the shots that they are capable of hitting, and the way they conduct themselves on the golf course.  The way they are so aggressive; they just take it on.  They challenge everything.  This is a great format to be that kind of player.  You know you have a partner; that you can be aggressive.  It was a blast.  They are good kids and they are fun to be around.  I was just trying to get out of their way.  They were playing so well.   
 Q.  You've got some of the best players in the world on your team, and the way U.S. golf is going right now with all the young players, you've got to be happy and looks like they are set up to continue to have some great partnerships moving forward in team competition?  
STEVE STRICKER: No doubt about it.  And we wanted to try some different combinations, but we just never got there because they were playing so well; the combinations that we had.  That was the point was just get out of their way.  They were playing great.  USA golf, team golf, is in a great spot.  Looks like they could be around together for a long time.   
 Q.  You've got a great team but also some great captains, the guys in the backroom staff, they helped you out a lot.  
STEVE STRICKER: Oh, yeah, everybody puts in a lot of hard work.  All the assistant captains were unbelievable.  They give up a lot of their time, and we talk a lot and we come up with a lot of different ideas.  You need a good support group and that's what they did.  They were awesome.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT