U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2006
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
I know when you're 4-over, you're saying, let's just settle things down.  Did you think you were going to settle it down that much?
STEVE STRICKER:  No.  I mean, I was just -- a lot of crazy things go through your head when you're 4-over through 3.  You know you're thinking about just breaking even.  You know, I've been in enough of these, you realize you just need to start getting on the fairway and on the greens and plugging away with pars.  That's what I tried to do, and fortunately I was able to do better than that on the back side where I was making birdies.
Q.  How did you play on the first hole?
STEVE STRICKER:  That's a good question.  I hit on the tree line and hit it on Number 9, bounced over into the 9 fairway, three putt from there.

Such a difficult hole.  You know, the first step is obviously to get in the fairway, but you have to stay below it going into that green.  Every pin position is very difficult, I mean, probably ranks the hardest on this course.  I would imagine it's difficult, just a tough hole, tough start.
Q.  Do you think the pin is really three paces from the edge today?
 STEVE STRICKER:  Closer.  No, it was probably three.  They're just hard.  There isn't an easy pin position on that green.  Five isn't a bad score sometimes.
Q.  What was your mindset going in after seeing the carnage of the early guys?
 STEVE STRICKER:  Well, you know, I saw David Toms get off to a tough start, and you know, then here I go, I was going right down the same avenue he was, and it's just difficult.  And you know, it's not going to get any easier from there on out.

Like I say, you have to try to be patient.  It's hard to do at the time, but you have to get the who cares attitude and trying to get some -- stringing some good shots together.
Q.  How tough has these last years been for you, losing your card?
 STEVE STRICKER:  It's been difficult.  The flip side of that, I have be able to spend a lot of time with my familiar at home.  As far as the golf game goes I've worked hard at it I've washing worked hard this winter.  I'm starting to see some results.  Just starting to feel more confident with my game.
Q.  Did you make any bottoms any real?
 STEVE STRICKER:  Bottom for par on number four.  I was really going.  It could have been worse.  I made a bottom for par.  I made another long birdie put on 12.  Front of the green the pin probably had to be a good 40, 50 feet.
Q.  Are you surprised to be in the position you are in?  Do you have the confidence to win the tournament?
 STEVE STRICKER:  I try to just take it one day at a time.  Try not to get too far ahead of myself.  Yeah, I'm surprised at shooting par.  It's a crazy game.  You can find things in a hurry, and you can lose things in a hurry.  Just important to take one shot at a time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT