WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2002
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  You know match-play well enough to know that it can end quickly  --?
STEVE STRICKER:   It did end quickly, too.  Chris played well.  He made eight birdies.  He made a lot of birdies  -- he made a couple of bogeys.  He let me sneak in the match a couple of times.  But he's playing well.  He's played well all year.  He's making a lot of putts and he's hitting well. 
He's going to be tough to beat, but I'm disappointed for not getting past the first round. 

Q.  Was there a turning point that you could look back at? 
STEVE STRICKER:   Not really.  Started off pretty decent.  I chipped in on, I think No. 5, but just never really got any momentum going.  It seemed like I was always fighting and clawing and trying to hang on.  When a guy throws that many birdies at you, it's going to be tough. 

Q.  Is there one big birdie for him? 
STEVE STRICKER:   You know, he didn't bomb one.  He made a birdie on the par 3, No. 13.  I think I had just won 12, and he ended up hitting a 4-iron in there to about  -- and I birdied 13 to get 1-down and he hit a 4-iron or 3-iron in there to about ten feet and he made birdie and then he went 2-up again. 
That was kind of the turning point there where I felt like I got it going and could have put a little pressure on him but he came back and answered with a birdie.

Q.  Darren Clarke also lost today so there is no defending champion in the tournament  --?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, you just never know.  You could turn into a guy who is making a lot of birdies and if you just don't play well, it can end in a hurry. 

Q.  You didn't play badly  --?
STEVE STRICKER:   I didn't play that badly.  I think I made five or six birdies, but never really could get ahead of him.  You know, when he keeps making the birdies that he's making  -- like I say, he gave me a couple of opportunities where he made bogeys, but I really didn't hit it well enough. 







End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT