SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 23, 2004
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  Steve Stricker, shoots a second round 70, 5-under for the tournament.  The key today is to play nice consistent golf out there because of the weather and the wind and the conditions.
STEVE STRICKER:  The key for me was definitely scrambling.  I think I missed seven greens today, and at one point I missed five in a row on my front side, and I got them up-and-down all five times.  You know, when you do that it kind of really keeps the round going.  I got off to a good start by birdieing 1 and 2, and then hit that skid of five greens in a row where I didn't hit and got them up-and-down.  I didn't really make any long putts, chipped it close.  I was off the string on a few holes.  When you can do that it really keeps the round going, and it got me through that day, that part of the round.
Q.  Tell us about the conditions, the weather, the wind.
STEVE STRICKER:  It really picked up probably on our 7th or 8th hole today and maybe even a little gustier than yesterday.  I would imagine this afternoon the conditions are going to be a little bit tougher for these guys.  I noticed some of the greens are getting a little firmer and harder, a little bit faster, but not really a speed that putts are going to get away from you on.  I did notice that the greens were getting harder, but I think it's going to be a little tougher this afternoon than what we had yesterday afternoon.
Q.  You were hitting out of the rough quite a bit.  Your score is more than respectable, but why were you hitting so well out of the rough when a lot of guys are having trouble out of the rough?  How do you explain that?
STEVE STRICKER:  I'm just managing my game well, I think.  When I was in trouble, I would try to get it up around the green or shoot away from the pin and just try to get it on the green and two-putt.  I just managed my whole two days very well, and I've been putting well.  I haven't been -- I've been making some key saves, key saving putts.  A couple times I missed it far enough off line where it actually held me, a couple times I missed it just barely off the fairway, next to a tree or something, so I had a little bit of everything, but I just managed my game real well and didn't try to do too many stupid things out of the rough.
Q.  It's been a while since you've been in contention to win a tournament.  What's your mind set on the weekend?
STEVE STRICKER:  I'm taking one day at a time.  It's been a struggle for me the last probably couple of years, and I'm lacking in confidence, which is starting to come back a little bit.  I'm starting to shoot some better rounds, but I feel like I need to take baby steps.  I'm just not driving it or feeling good about driving it yet or any part of my game.  You know, I just don't have that confidence that I once had, and that's what I'm trying to find and get back.  It's been hard.  It's been real hard.  But something like this is definitely a positive and helps in the confidence.  Hopefully you can build on here and see what happens this weekend.

I mean, this game is so fickle.  You can just find it from one tee to the next or lose it from one tee to the next, so you've got to keep plugging away and keep working at it.
Q.  Ten years ago or so you did really well, one of the up and coming golfers and stuff like that.  Do you hear people in the gallery when you're walking around say who's that, because they don't recognize you?  Do you hear that?
STEVE STRICKER:  Yeah, I do, and it's motivation for me, to tell you the truth.  Like you said, at one time I was supposed to be a good player and supposed to do these things, and people knew who I was.  Now it's the opposite, and it makes you work hard at it.  I didn't ever take for granted the position I was in before, but the position I am in now, I've really started working harder at it and trying to get my game back in shape.
CHRIS REIMER:  Thank you, Steve.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT