NEC WORLD SERIES OF GOLF
August 25, 1996
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE STRICKER:  It actually got better as the week went on.  I didn't feel too good about my game coming in here, but in between rounds yesterday - in between rounds yesterday I spent a lot of time on the range.  I went out there about an hour and a half before my tee time, just worked on my tempo a little bit.  It helped for the next two rounds, and it kind of turned the - turned my momentum around.  I played with Freddie yesterday and that got me excited a little bit, more motivated to play well.  That kind of turned my whole tournament around, I think, that little practice.  And then playing with Freddie and I played well with Freddie, and it just turned the whole next two rounds around.

STEVE STRICKER:  Bogeyed on No. 1.  Drove it in the right rough, pulled a hook, an 8-iron.  I think the rough turned it over; hit left to the green; made a really good  bogey.  Number 2 driver and 2-iron, to the front edge of the green and 2-putted.  The second putt was probably about a 10-footer.  Number 5, I 3-putted; hit 5-iron to about 20 or 25 feet right at the hole and 3-putted.  And then birdied 12, hit a 6-iron to about twelve feet, 13 I hit 7-iron, about 15 feet.  And 14, I hit sand wedge to about -- another 12 or 15-footer and made all of those.

STEVE STRICKER:  Yeah, kind of disappointing.  We hit it close at 16 to about five feet and I don't know if -- I didn't hit a very good putt.  I thought I hit it on my line.  I might have been lined up wrong, but just leaked away to the right and 18 I had it about twelve feet again and I didn't hit a real aggressive putt, pulled it maybe just a little bit. Tried to squeak in there, but it just wasn't a very aggressive putt.  Those two putts kinds of disappointing.


Q.  How did you feel after the three birdies in a row? You knew you were right in the hunt there.  Did you feel like you had a good chance?

STEVE STRICKER:  Yeah, I really did.  You know, we made a good solid par at 15 and I told Nicki, you know, if we could just get -- I told her if we could birdie the last 3 and get to 6, you know, I thought that might do it.  And as it  turns out, it might have tied, but, you know, I got excited and I didn't feel overly nervous, but I was excited-nervous, and you know, I feel good the way I handled it coming in.  I hit some good shots coming in.  Just didn't convert and make the putts.


Q.  How far was your third shot at 16?

STEVE STRICKER:  I had 80 to carry the water and 90 to the pin.


Q.  Sand wedge?

STEVE STRICKER:  I hit a 60 degree wedge, which was the max for that club, you know, I had to hit it hard.

STEVE STRICKER:  Like somebody told me -- oh, Peter Kostis - I was hitting balls and he said, oh, "you got the fifth major next week," meaning my hometown tournament - not my hometown, my home state, and it will be exciting to go home and play in front of the state people.  They support me and Nicki a great deal.  Last year we had a big crowd on Friday and hopefully if the weather is good people can come out, so it should be a lot of fun.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT