JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 16, 2017
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (In progress. )  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it was a little bit tougher lie than what I had whenever that year was that a hit that shot out of there.  Walking up there, I just had a feeling it was going to be up there again.  It was.   
But I gave myself a good look at it.  Hit a good putt.  Disappointing that I couldn't kind of make another birdie or two on the way in.   
 Q.  Steve, there was a lot of people enjoying seeing your at the top of the leaderboard on Sunday there for a few holes.  Did you know where you were?  
STEVE STRICKER: Oh, yeah.  I knew exactly where I was.  Even when I made birdie on the Par 3, 12, and then rattled off a couple more I knew where I was at.   
That's what fun.  That's what is fun about getting in contention and playing and playing well.  I knew I needed a couple more.  Somebody is going to get to 18 or 19 probably.   
Just didn't do enough good things coming in.   
 Q.  Talk about what changed.  First day messed you up, but the winds, you said you never played the course this way.  
STEVE STRICKER: We played it again today this way, too.  I think it's more so coming off a two-week layoff.  Just really wasn't prepared mentally more then anything.   
Had no momentum on Thursday whatsoever.  Didn't putt it very well.  Wasn't even thinking very well on some of the shots.  I needed this weekend to kind of -- first of all, made the cut right on the number, and then needed this weekend to work on a few things and get some momentum, especially going into next week.   
Feels good to have a little bit of momentum into next week.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
STEVE STRICKER: I was.  The stance was just horrible.  I could have stood both feet out of the bunker, but then the ball was so far below my feet.  It wasn't a great lie in the bunker either.  It was kind of on a downhill lie.   
So really wasn't worth it.  We were just trying to make par the hard way.   
 Q.  Anything you tell yourself on Friday night when you make the cut on the number and all of a sudden now you're...  
STEVE STRICKER: You know, it's just free it up a little bit.  But I was more so working on it because I didn't do so well on Thursday and hit a couple wayward shots on Friday; couple 6 irons yesterday that got away from me.  (Indiscernible) couple shots better.   
So it's just I have good feelings when I'm around here.  I knew I could post a couple good scores.  So you're just telling yourself to hang in there, keep working on some things I was working on, and started to see some positive results today.   
 Q.  Do you think the limited schedule maybe helps you on the weekend with a little more energy, pep in your step?  
STEVE STRICKER: I never have a lot of pep in my step around this course.  It's so hard to walk.  It's hot, humid, and hard to walk.  Today was a little bit nicer.  I definitely had a little bit more pep in my step today.   
It was fun.  It's fun to get back in there.  Even though I felt like I needed two or three more after I got to 16, but still, to climb up the leaderboard like that is a lot of fun.   
 Q.  (Regarding next week.)  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, very much so.  I needed a good round like these last two.  Yesterday's rounds of 6-under should have been a couple shots better.  Hit a horrible 6-iron here at 18 and didn't get it up and down on 9 yesterday.   
That round could have been a couple shots better.  So threw a couple away, but did a lot of nice things also.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
STEVE STRICKER: I don't know.  It's fun, though, it's fun.  I don't know how many more of these I can play in, but I sure enjoy coming here every year.   
Get great reception from the crowds and a lot of support from the people, especially today.  I started going low, and the people started coming out to watch.  So it was a lot fun again.   
 Q.  How remarkable is that, though, to go from making the cut on the number to (indiscernible) when you know there are so many guys making birdies in between.  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, and that's what you can do around here, though.  There is a potential for a low round here; a potential for a mediocre, even par, 1-under round, is also here.   
It's just tough enough.  If you start driving it in the rough, not making any putts, all of a sudden you feel like you're getting lapped by everybody, and you usually are.   
And then that's when it gets a little bit more pressure put on yourself because you're not making birdies.  Works it the reverse effect, too.   
It's one of those courses that can go both ways, and that's the nice part about this place.  It makes it interesting.   
 Q.  Thoughts on Birkdale?  
STEVE STRICKER: Excited to go.  My oldest daughter is coming over there with me.  She's excited to go over.  Played a couple other Opens there at Birkdale.  I think I finished seventh one year.  Excited to go back.   
Always interesting.  Always fun.  It's a new challenge and one that I look forward to one week out of the year.   
 Q.  Had your coaching hat on, too.  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, every week.  You know, I played with Kisner and Bubba Watson this week, so it's always good.  Going to play a practice round probably with Phil next week.   
Always good to see these guys and make sure they see me and that I'm around.  Just make sure that communication is there between everybody.  If they need anything, they know where to get me.  I'm usually here.  Another reason why I'm playing.   
 Q.  Probably wrapped up a spot in the Playoffs too after today.  Is that another way you can I guess show your relevance with the teammates and team members as well?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, very much so.  And we're thinking about getting a practice round at there at Liberty National around those Playoff events, so it will be good to go out there and see everybody and just be there; have everyone more comfortable with them and me more comfortable with them.   
But we've all known each other.  We're all friends.  So it's really been a lot of fun to be a little bit more a part of this team.  Looking forward to that stretch, too.  Especially getting into the Playoffs.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT