JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2017
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEVE STRICKER: It's a bit soft and breezy and it's something I'm not used to seeing, you know, some holes that played pretty long and holes that are typically playing short.   
So it's a little bit different, and I'm not getting it in the hole very well.  Add that all up and makes for a tough course.   
 Q.  Not enough birdies, but an eagle on 2.  Talk about that.  That was a nice approach.  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I needed that.  Walking off the tee I told Kisner, Couple threes would be good here, wouldn't they?  I was able to get one to drop there, which I needed, and just kind of hung on coming in.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts now?  The cut line could be anywhere from 1 to 3.  Just sit and wait and watch?  
STEVE STRICKER: I think I'm pretty safe with 2; 1 I wouldn't have liked at all.  I think 2 will be all right.  Should be anyway.   
It's playing tough enough and it's soft enough.  The greens get a little choppy in the afternoon because they're soft, so be a little bit harder for them to make putts this afternoon probably.   
 Q.  Steve, your mindset coming in today?  Obviously you started today not where you're used to starting on this golf course.  
STEVE STRICKER: Just to be around for the weekend.  I told myself I needed something 4-under or better.  I got the 4, but I was looking for something a little bit lower than that.   
Just never really gotten any momentum around here the first couple days, so hopefully make it through the weekend and get a couple more rounds under my belt and head over to the British Open.   
 Q.  Fans always following you.  (Regarding wearing orange.)  It's a fun thing to do.  
STEVE STRICKER: It is.  It is.  See a lot of familiar faces.  I think there are five Illini playing in the field this year.  See a lot orange out in the crowd and hear a lot of I-L-Ls.  It's a nice day, and something that's been a tradition over the last few years and it's growing and it's cool to see.   
 Q.  Have you kept one eye on Dylan and Nick out here?  
STEVE STRICKER: Tuesday I played with Nick and Brian Campbell.  Saw Dylan in the interview room.   
Yeah, I've been watching how they've been doing.  They look they got off to a good start.  I don't know what they're doing.  I think (indiscernible).   
Yeah, it's fun to watch.  There is a lot of -- it's impressive what's coming out of Illinois and what's Smally has been doing down there.  It's great to watch.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT