THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2016
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Did you have any idea where you were as far as projections and stuff to play next week?  
STEVE STRICKER: No, I didn't see it much out there today.  I knew what position I was in the tournament, and I knew at the start of the week, if I could finish around 58th or something like that, odds were in my favor to play next week at Deutsche Bank.   
And I was struggling today, throwing shots away.  I threw one away at 17 and made bogey, so I knew a birdie would help.  I just didn't know where I exactly stood but I knew I was in trouble.  So it was nice to roll that one in, and hopefully get in.   
 Q.  How big would it be to be in the field next week at a place you've obviously had a lot of success in the past?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it's a place that I really enjoy going to.  You kind of get a first hint of fall there every year it seems like.  Temperatures cool off a little bit.  You know the end of the season is near.  You're in the FedExCup Playoffs.  I've had some success there and I enjoy the place.   
I wanted to move on and at least get one more week and get another crack at it.   
 Q.  That birdie putt on the final hole likely secured your spot next week.  Were you thinking about that on the last putt?  
STEVE STRICKER: I was.  It was kind of a weird feeling today.  I wasn't playing that well and I knew I needed to do something coming in, and I threw a shot away at 17 and made bogey.   
So I had a feeling, I didn't know for sure, but I had a feeling that a birdie would help, and it did it looks like.  So it looks like I'm going to be going on and excited to be going on next week.   
 Q.  Excited because you've also won at the Deutsche Bank in 2009, so you bring that experience to the table.  
STEVE STRICKER: It's a great place.  They get a tremendous amount of people that come out and support the event.  They put on a great event.  Deutsche Bank has been great to us over the years, so I'm excited to go there.   
It's the Playoffs.  You never know what can happen.  You keep plugging away and you have a good tournament next week, and who knows what could happen.   
 Q.  As a Presidents Cup captain, you've been a part of a lot of festivities and events this week here at The Barclays, including throwing out the first pitch at the Mets game.  What's it been like?  
STEVE STRICKER: If you want to call that a pitch.  I just kind of lobbed it over the plate.  But it was a lot of fun.  It was great.  My family is here so we all went down to Citi Field.  We got to sit up in the New York Mets box during the game.  I lobbed that pitch across home plate.  I was a little nervous, too, to make sure I could get it in the catcher's mitt.  But all good stuff, fun stuff.  It's kind of the kickoff to next year's Presidents Cup already, and it will be here before we know it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT