JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 14, 2016
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your week.  
STEVE STRICKER: I could never get any momentum going.  I couldn't make any putts to speak of whatsoever.  Hit it pretty nicely today for a long time and just couldn't get anything to go in, around the hole a lot.   
So really, no momentum, at all.  Kind of lost just my feel on the greens.  Just didn't have a good feeling for what the ball was going to do.  A lot of grain on the greens this year, because of the wetness I think.  It was tough for me.   
 Q.  Did you feel like this experience was different because you're not in contention and you're not fighting at the end?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, you know, it's hard when you're not in contention, especially around here for me.  I still tried to put up a good number today.  I wanted to come out and fire up a good one, and then when I made bogey at 12 there, kind of ran out of gas I felt like.   
But it's still great to come here.  I love coming here and it's a special place for me.   
 Q.  What was your feeling of the atmosphere of the tournament, especially with the date change and the weather that obviously people can't control?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, you know, it's down a little bit I think.  We were missing Jordan Spieth this year, too.  But still, the people come out and support the event, rain or shine, and they showed again this week what kind of place, special place this is.  They really get behind the event.  Even though the weather did kind of stink for us a few times this week, but they still came out.   
 Q.  What's your schedule from here?  
STEVE STRICKER: Barclays for sure and we'll see after that.  I don't know if I'm in the following week or not yet.  But I'll go play Barclays.  I've got a week off and go play Barclays.   
 Q.  Looking forward to being part of The Ryder Cup this year?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I am.  It should be a lot of fun.  Our guys, all the Top-10, 12 guys are playing really good golf.  I see Kuchar just won the Bronze Medal today, so that's good.  So it should be an exciting time come September.   
 Q.  Do you think you'll be looking at the whole operation of how that works, and do you think you might be under consideration for captain at Whistling Straits in 2020?  
STEVE STRICKER: Maybe.  I learned a lot as a player and an assistant the last time with Tom Watson, learned a lot of things that week; and then an assistant to Jay Haas on The Presidents Cup Team last year.  So the more times you can get in there, you learn quite a bit.   
But we'll see in 2020.  I don't know, it's a long ways away.  But we'll see.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you if that opportunity came your way?  
STEVE STRICKER: Oh, it would mean a lot.  It would mean a lot, coming right there into my home State of Wisconsin.  I know how they support other events in our state.  They come out in droves for the PGA Championship.  We had a Champions Tour event in Madison this year and they came out to support that big time.  Wisconsin people get behind their events.   
 Q.  What are your expectations for the rest of the year?  
STEVE STRICKER: I don't have any.   
 Q.  Just Barclays?  
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I don't have any.  I try to play hard and try to play as well as I can.  But you know, I'm not chasing anything anymore.  If I make it on to the next one, so be it, that would be great.  But I just go, try to play hard, have fun doing it and competing.  I'd love to get back in the winner's circle again.  All that other stuff takes care of itself if you just play well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT