PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2015
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel about where you are right now?
STEVE STRICKER: A little disappointed the way I finished.  I had 3-under with a couple to play and just dead pulled the drive at No. 8 and I guess it hit somebody in the butt and bounced backwards into a bunker, into a heel print.  And couldn't hardly advance it anywhere, and got it in the rough and still only had like 240 or 50 yards to the hole.  So kind of made a mess of No. 8.
I was starting to make a mess of No. 9, too, until chipping it in for par.  And didn't drive it all that badly in No. 9, just a step in the rough, and was in a horrendous lie.  I was going the other way rather quickly on the last couple of holes.  But I'm around for the weekend and hopefully put up a couple of good rounds for this weekend.
Q. (Inaudible.)
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I mean when you can save shots like that.  And I've been doing well at that the first couple of days here.  I've been making some great saves when I have to.  Not hitting it all that great, but making some great saves and taking advantage of opportunities when I have them.  And then to finish like that, yeah, much nicer to be 1-under than even.
So it's exciting that I'm putting better, that's what's got me excited.  I made a lot of nice putts, started a lot of balls on my lines the last couple of days.  And that's exciting for me because that hasn't been the case so far this year.
Q. (Inaudible.)
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, like I said, I wish I would have been a couple shots better or maybe even pick one off and got to 4-under or something like that, that would have been nicer.  But I'll be a ways back after today, I'm sure, with guys with a lot of fire power.  That will be a challenging thing for me.  But you never know.  I put up a good one tomorrow and see what happens.
Q. (Inaudible.)
STEVE STRICKER: I didn't.  Yeah, I laid up and hit a wedge to about 8 feet and made it.
Q. Was the heat a factor?
STEVE STRICKER: At times it's sticky and you get below the holes, or ground level, I should say, and it gets pretty hot.  But it's -- conditions are great to play in.  The ball is going a long ways.  The course is in great shape.  Everything about it, you know, the wind is not blowing that hard today for the guys in the afternoon.  They'll put up some good numbers, I imagine this afternoon.
Q. (Inaudible.)
STEVE STRICKER: No, not really.  She just said hang in there.  After we saw the lie at 9 in the rough there, you start to get that feeling that things are going the other way.  So it was good to get off the course, I think because it was -- those last couple of holes were a bit of a struggle.  But like I said, we still chipped one in there at 9.
Q. (Inaudible.)
STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I would imagine if he gets off to a big lead after today guys are going to have to be a little bit more aggressive tomorrow.  And that's tough to do around here because it's very penal.  You could miss a green and have a chip or you could miss a green and have nothing.  It's sometimes the luck of the bounce and where it ends up around here.  And that's tough to swallow at times, when you don't hit that poor of a shot and you're penalized pretty heavily.  And then a guy who bombs it 40 yards off the fairway has a play.  That's tough to swallow sometimes.  It will be interesting to see what happens this afternoon.  But it's still a difficult test.  There's a lot of challenging holes out there that can still jump up and grab you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT