CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 22, 2015
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's the deal with this weather.   Come on, man.  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   This is crazy, isn't it?   One good thing, though, the course drains extremely well.   I think any place else we play we'd be in the clubhouse waiting this out because they've had a tremendous amount of rain last week, and overnight, either last night or the night before.   And raining again today.   It's starting to puddle up a little bit, but the course drains so well, and it's still very playable.  
   
 Q.   If I was a golf course designer, I would come here to find out what they're doing in these bunkers because these bunkers are amazing, with the amount of water they're taking, they haven't even had to do anything to them.  
STEVE STRICKER:   I know.   The whole course, it's amazing, they had like 8 or 10 inches of rain last week before us coming here, and we've gotten rain since we've been here.   You know, an inch and a half on Wednesday‑‑ I think it was Tuesday, Tuesday while during the practice round, and then a little bit Wednesday night.  
So it's unbelievable that we're still out there playing, really, and it's in great shape.  
   
 Q.   They're only saying three to five inches for the weekend.   How do we do it?   Boats?  
STEVE STRICKER:   (Laughs).   I don't know if it can handle all that.   But hopefully we dodge the majority of it.   It's such a great tournament and a great event we play here at Colonial.   They put so much time and effort into it that it would be a shame to not get out there and play.  
   
 Q.   Have you seen this golf course in better shape?   I've never seen so much grass.   It's beautiful?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   It's really beautiful.   The rough is thick, especially now when it gets wet.   I hit it in there a couple of times today where you can't get to the green.   So it's premium on putting it in the fairway.  
   
 Q.   Keep up the good work, half‑timer.  
STEVE STRICKER:   Thanks, guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT