MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2015
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Are you holding up physically after not playing much golf for awhile?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah.   I think so.   I'm making it around here without too much troubles, it feels like.   So I'm excited about that.   My game, there was some better signs today an of doing better things with that, too, except for 16, really, where just had a brain cramp there.   But other than that, it was all right for the most part.

Q.   What did you do on 16?
STEVE STRICKER:   I just tried to chip a little 7‑iron in there and I just came right straight over the top of it and hit it on the bank and then it ended up going in the water, which is a long ways from the pin. 
But, yeah, other than that, I make double there and I was 2‑under coming into there and I ended up shooting 1‑over.   So it was decent, a little bit better, where I showed some good signs all the way up to that point.

Q.   Did you have a flier on 18?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, a little bit of a flier.   But I tugged my drive there.   And that's kind of what's going on, I feel like I'm going to hit it up to the right and then I kind of slow down at times and tug them to the left. 
And I tugged a tee shot, caught a branch, and I had 189 to the front, playing uphill, out of the rough, didn't know if I could get my 3‑iron there.   So I was kind of in between clubs, either 3‑iron or utility club and caught a little bit of an zinger with my utility club.

Q.   Talk about your par on 8. 
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I visit that area a couple times a year.   I don't know why that is either.   But I should have a plaque over there somewhere. 
But, yeah, it was a good par.   The hole should be a birdie, at least a chance at a birdie and I'm two out of the three days so far I've been scrambling.   Made a bogey the first day, birdie yesterday, par today. 
If I play that thing in even par, I'm usually doing pretty good.   I think last year I played it in 2‑over.   You just can't score if you're going to play 8‑over par.   But, yeah, I was over there again and made a good par.   Made a good 15‑footer for par.

Q.   How was it playing with Jeff?
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, he's a great guy.   Nice player, too.   We had a good time going around.   It helps to play with somebody.   Especially of his caliber.   He's a good player and I could tell he's been around here a few times.   He never misread a putt. 
So it was ‑‑ I thought I was going out by myself today.   I was prepared to go out by myself.   I didn't know they had a marker going with me.   But I was glad they did.   He was a great guy and fun to play with.

Q.   Rory actually played with him last year and he, unfortunately, got outscored by Jeff.   Did you know what he shot today?
STEVE STRICKER:   No, he ‑‑ have you ever seen that commercial, "Don't count that."   He did that on 2 where he hit it to the right there. 
He birdied 17.   He did some good things.   I'm not sure what he shot. 

Q.   How many rounds have you played so far coming into this tournament and also here at Augusta but also just prior to coming down to Augusta?
STEVE STRICKER:   I probably played about five rounds before coming here.   I practiced some down in Florida.   I played three rounds down in at a place, Calusa Pines in Florida. 
Then I played a couple, I came here the middle of last week and played a couple of rounds.   So I got about five under my belt before I came here. 

Q.   What do you do going forward, from your schedule? 
STEVE STRICKER:   My schedule?   I'm going to take next week off.   I'm feeling good, so I can work on my game a little bit more. 
And I'll probably play New Orleans.   And then I won't get in Match Play, then play PLAYERS.   And it looks like I'm going to have one on, one off for awhile.   Which is good.   I think it's a good way to kind of work on my game, work on my body, try to get it stronger and then have those weeks off where I can rest and then have weeks off where I can play and get after it again. 

Q.   Were you surprised at making the cut, having not played at all?
STEVE STRICKER:   That was my goal, it really was.   My goal was just to play here on the weekend so I could get four rounds in and kind of build some momentum and see what I have with my game.   It gives you a good barometer of things to work on, it shows you your faults and your tendencies the more times you can play.   And then you can work through them during the course of the round, too.   So more rounds, the merrier and I'm glad I was able to make it through to the weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT