PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about how good that par was on 18.   
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, I wish that was for birdie and not for par.   I've struggled getting at the ball in the fairway there every day.   I hit the fairway one day and then drove it in the water the other two and played that hole 1‑over.   And you know, I have given probably three or four shots to some of these guys on that hole alone.   I haven't taken advantage of that hole.   That's too bad.   Again, it was a good par save.   A little bit of momentum going into tomorrow even though that was for par.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Well, you know, I was thinking that 12 was going to be maybe leading by the end of the day.   It looks like maybe 13 now.   
Rory birdied 15 and 16, I think I'm sure he will at least make birdie at 18.   I was trying to get within 3.   It looks like I'll probably be 4 again or maybe 5.   A lot of people jammed in there.   It's going to take something pretty low tomorrow, I think, from me, anyways to have a chance.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
STEVE STRICKER:   I'm going to have to be more aggressive probably.   The course conditions are such where you can‑‑ if you want to take dead aim out some of these hole locations because it's so soft and you can get the ball to stop.   I may be forced a little bit to be more aggressive tomorrow and just see what kind of start I get off to tomorrow and take it from there.   Everybody is playing pretty good golf.   
I shot 3‑under today and lose spots on the leaderboard.   Conditions must have been good for scoring because a lot of guys played well today.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
STEVE STRICKER:   No, I don't think there is anything they can do fromfor tomorrow in one day.   It's what we've got.   The course conditions are soft because of the rain we've gotten.   They have set it up great.   It provides a lot of excitement.   I think the fans are enjoying it.   The crowds are great.   The players are having fun.   It's still tough enough where you have to hit good shots to make birdies.   But if you are on your game, you can make some.   
   
 Q.   Talk about how you played (inaudible)?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Played consistent today all the way around.   I missed a birdie right away at 1, missed another one at 4 and 5.   But I was just patient.   I made a couple of good saves at 3 and 8.   
I knew I was falling behind, but I was still pretty patient and started to hit some good shots on the back side again and took advantage of those.   And a good par save right there at 18.   It was a good day.   
Like I said, I hit the ball more solid today and gave myself some opportunities.   Made the saves when I had to and started making some birdie on the back when I needed to.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, you know, I'm fine.   The pressure is not going to be on us guys that are 7, 8, 9‑under.   It's going to be up on the leaders.   It gets tougher for the leaders on the last day usually.   We've got some guys that are immune to that at times, like Rory.   
For the most part the leaders, you know, kind of tread water a little bit.   Tomorrow could be different because there's so many guys bunched in there.   They are going to have be aggressive tomorrow too.   That could cause everybody to kind of make some birdies and be more aggressive just because of the course conditions.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT