PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Steve Stricker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How pleased were you with your round today?  
STEVE STRICKER:   I'm very happy with it and happy to be in and finished.   Conditions were tough out there.   
Although the conditions were okay, just different kind of conditions.   You know, we're playing the ball down it's very wet in the fairways.   We're picking up a little bit of water and sometimes grass or sand on the ball.   
You know, the greens are going to continually get a little beat up for the rest of the day because they are so soft and saturated.   That will become more of a challenge as we get further along in the day.  
I'm very happy to be done and over with the round.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy to be sitting where you are headed into the weekend?   
STEVE STRICKER:   I'm sure there will be some more guys that pass me, but I'm happy with my position.   I wish I could have maybe picked one up coming in or not given the one away that I did on, I think, the 4th hole.   All in all, good two days and look forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
STEVE STRICKER:   You know, on the PGA TOUR, I think we would have played the ball up.   I don't know if we've ever played a major up at all.   I think we've always played it down, whether it's the Masters, British Open, U.S. Open, I heard while we were waiting that no major has ever played the ball up.   So that kind of makes their decision easy and there's no sense getting bent out of shape about it.   You know what you have to do and you know what the conditions are going to be like.   So you just got to put your head down and plow forward.  
   
 Q.   How much is the Ryder Cup on your mind this week?   
STEVE STRICKER:   You know, I would have to do something very special and that would be either win or maybe finish second.   You know, and I'm obviously going to try to do the best I can this weekend, but it hasn't really crossed my mind as a player just because I haven't played that much.   I haven't played all that well this year and and I'm just trying to have a good tournament here this week.   Try to finish the year off in a positive form and move forward.   
So it really hasn't crossed my mind too much.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you could be more effective as a player or vice Captain?   
STEVE STRICKER:   Well, you know it's going to sting, I'm sure, when I'm over there as an assistant captain and watching the guys and wishing I was probably a part of the playing part of the team.   You know, I'll cherish the moment of just being a part of it in any way, shape or form.   Hopefully I can help out a little bit.   It's all about the guys there and how they are playing and what they bring to the team and you know I'm just going to help out in way Tom asks me or anybody else asks me to.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
STEVE STRICKER:   Yeah, you know, I really hit the ball nicely the first nine holes today.   Slowly kind of struggled on the other side, but I hit a lot of nice shots.   Putted it well.   So I was feeling pretty confident and then just kind of didn't do as well the last nine.   
But that's been kind of my MO the last month or so.   So it's something probably hit a few balls today and see if I can pick up on something and hopefully have a good weekend.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any problem with the ball picking up mud or sand?  
STEVE STRICKER:   A little bit.   The ball seems to come off a little bit quicker off the fairway.   Not really flyer, but a little faster, takes the spin off a little bit.   You know, the rough is a little bit thicker when you hit it in there because it's wet and moist and more grabby.   So there's some challenges along the way.   You just got to play smart.   You got to hit it in the fairway, knock it on the green and make pars.  
We are at a major championship and pars are still good, especially on some of those holes out there today.   They had us all the way back on some of the long holes.   Those played really difficult.   Making your pars and moving on was key today.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
STEVE STRICKER:   It was a speed issue there on 8.   I think as we got to our backside, they got more bumpy because more people were on them and they weren't rolling out as much as they were on the front side and not as smooth.   That just kind of hit the wall on me as it got closer to the hole.   I think that's what happened there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT