JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 25, 2013
Scott Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How long was the putt? 
SCOTT HENRY:   15, 18 feet maybe. 

Q.   How much break on it? 
SCOTT HENRY:   I knew as soon as it started turning and the pace was coming out, it was in.   So that was, hence, the fist pump. 
But I thought I had to make 17 to get in the playoff.   Obviously Stevie‑G, he's eagled to beat us by one, didn't he.   Still delighted with the way I played.   I never played as well today, but managed to hole out the short putts but just never got anything from outside of six feet.   I never holed anything apart from that putt at the last. 
A bit frustrating on the greens, but I handled myself well and I really ground out two great shots at the last and a great putt under as much pressure as I've probably ever played under. 
So I've got to take a lot from that.   I've got a great run of tournaments coming up and I feel that my game is really pressing on and obviously it's good enough to compete at this level, and it should be good enough to win soon, given‑‑ seeing what I've done today, has really given me confidence. 
I don't know how much I'm going to rack up for today‑‑

Q.   But the whole thing, the way you performed. 
SCOTT HENRY:   To be level par, to be level par after the first round, and then be 17‑under for three rounds, is pretty good golf.   But I'm happy, but a wee bit deflated.   I thought I would be going back up 18 with a chance of winning the trophy. 
I said to my caddie before I hit the putt:   There's no point in putting for second here.   You've just got to hole this putt.   We don't practice to finish second but unfortunately that's what happened today.

Q.   You'll bank away that feeling when it went in‑‑
SCOTT HENRY:   To me it felt like it was going to give me a chance to win.

Q.   Where were you when Stevie's putt went in, were you watching on the telly?
SCOTT HENRY:   I was just hitting a few balls on the range.

Q.   You must have heard the roar. 
SCOTT HENRY:   I did, but got to congratulate Stevie, he's a lovely guy, and all the Scottish guys, as we were talking earlier in the week, Paul Lawrie has been nice to me and big Stevie has been very friendly, as well, and he's a cracking good player, so like to congratulate him. 

Q.   That feeling of holing that putt on the last, did it feel bigger than Kazakhstan?
SCOTT HENRY:   Felt bigger, especially the crowds were phenomenal.   The support I've had today, just doesn't get any better than that.   Feels like my home tournament, so it was pretty special, mom and dad, brother and sister here, as well.   Just awesome feeling.

Q.   Does this feel a turning point?
SCOTT HENRY:   As I say, I don't know how much I'm going to rack up for that, but it definitely feels like I've now got my game where it needs to be to compete to win. 
I think earlier in the year, I was trying to find something that I didn't really need, trying to find extra things in my game, where actually, if I just go play, my game is definitely good enough.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT