JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 24, 2013
Scott Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good day? 
SCOTT HENRY:   Good day.   Played really solid.   Managed my game pretty well, also, but a couple of 3‑putts.   Obviously I 3‑putted the last there.   A bit of a sore way to finish, but it was a tricky first putt I had and it was a bit of a tough green to hole putts on. 
But I'm pleased with the way I played, and just really steady, kind of biding my time and picked up a few birdies when I could, and just a nice, steady round of golf. 

Q.   The first time you played with Paul? 
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, first time ever, even in practise, it was nice to play with him.   And saw a couple of great short game shots that he played as something that I can certainly learn from and try and copy.   But it was good to play with him, good fun.

Q.   A guy you've admired for a long time? 
SCOTT HENRY:   Especially what he's done the last few years.   I remember watching him win The Open, it's years ago now, but last year was really awesome for all of the Scottish guys to watch him do what he had done and get into The Ryder Cup.   Certainly something that I'd love to do myself and I'd love to get to that level. 
And to play with him today‑‑ and he's always been nice throughout the whole year to me and always asked if I want any advice; don't hesitate to ask him.   So he's been there if I needed him but it's nice to finally get a round with him today.

Q.   How old were you when he won The Open? 
SCOTT HENRY:   I'm 26 now, so 12.   A long time ago now. 

Q.   What was the chat?
SCOTT HENRY:   He was asking how I was getting on and stuff like that, and he was trying to be‑‑ he was quite encouraging.   I asked as many questions as I possibly could, really, I asked about The Ryder Cup, about his wins last year, and I just asked him whatever came into my head really.   He was kind of fed up with me asking questions, and a bit of banter, as well, a few laughs out there.

Q.   Not to get ahead of yourself but do you see tomorrow as a chance to take a big step towards securing that card? 
SCOTT HENRY:   I cannot really‑‑ I'm not thinking about that.   I have seven tournaments after this one, and obviously if I play well and that happens, then great.   But I think my focus has got to be on going out and trying to catch the leaders.   Certainly the way I've played the last couple of days, it's definitely on.   So I think if I do that, then the race will take care of itself.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT