JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2013
Scott Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT HENRY:   A lot of good stuff in there, even though I'm not comfortable with my game this week, confidence grew from the start I had.   
So I missed a good chance for eagle on 2, so I'm not going to complain with four birdies the first four holes, it was great to start that way and give myself a bit of a cushion to free it up and go from there.   I still dropped back, I bogeyed 9 and 10 to two awful shots on those holes which kind of dragged me back a little bit but then from there on, I played really nicely.   Kind of good birdie to finish, is always nice.  
   
 Q.   How much encouragement do you take that you can have a few bad holes and still shoot that score?   
SCOTT HENRY:   Yesterday there was a lot of bad holes.   I think there was a bit of rust there after being off for three weeks, not competing and I felt like it was birdie, bogey, birdie, bogey, so it was up‑and‑down.   And today was a bit sharper with the short stuff and my short game is better, and I managed to get up‑and‑down for par a couple of times.   
   
 Q.   Where were you this time last year?   
SCOTT HENRY:   Probably Challenge Tour, so I think it's Rolex Trophy this week in Switzerland, so I was there.   Kind of struggling with my game a little bit but kept on at the end of the season.  
   
 Q.   What did you do the last three weeks apart from go see Scotland, England?   
SCOTT HENRY:   Well, I was glad to have my rest to be honest.   Spent a bit of time at home with my family, and then just got in a bit of practise, tried to work on my game.   I felt like because I was on the road so much, it's hard to really make good improvements on things.   
   
 Q.   Does that give you the chance to do it?   
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, I feel like it, but at the same time, I was able to work on‑‑ for me the big change this week is I'm trying to be a bit more natural and just play and hit different shots and have a bit more fun with it and that seems to be helping.  
   
 Q.   The sporadic schedule this year, is it a problem in the sense that you've not got opportunities to play in just about every event, and then sometimes you have long gaps, and then you have sort of runs of tournaments?   
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, it's been a little bit awkward.   I played ten tournaments in a row, which is kind of too much, but in my position, I feel like I can't miss tournaments.   So I felt like the more I've played, the better I've got.   I've started to play better, be more comfortable.   Although I've not played the course much, I'm familiar with the area and the place and feeling all right at the moment.  
   
 Q.   Have a nice run of events?   
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, six in a row including this one.  
   
 Q.   How do you fancy your chances?   
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, I think it's going to need to be a couple low ones.   I don't know what, 14‑under or something?   Probably need to be 12‑under over the weekend, something along those lines.   It's always difficult to lead a tournament, but I'll just keep chipping away.   If I can keep playing the way I did today, then I'll be obviously happy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT