THE IRISH OPEN
June 29, 2013
Scott Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Birdie‑fest for you this week but mixed in with a little bit of good and bad?  
SCOTT HENRY:   I started the day, there was a few mistakes early on.   I didn't really start well and I was just kind of trying to hold it together.   Then just about, I think it was 5 I birdied and then from then on, I played really well.   I had a lot of chances, made some good putts.   
But 16, 17 kind of held me back a little bit.   It was nice to birdie the last, but need to cut out the mistakes if we're going to challenge tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday you got the round of the week, 64, and that was a brilliant effort obviously, so it's in you to do it again.   
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, I mean, those rounds only kind of happen every once in awhile.   But if it happens twice in the one week, that would certainly be nice.   But I'm playing good.   I'm hitting the ball pretty solid.   I'm putting it in the right places off the tee.   Just need to keep holing the putts.  
   
 Q.   The late starters seemed to get the best of the conditions today; would you agree with that?   
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, I would say so.   The sun is out now, thank God.   First time it's been out since Wednesday.  
Yeah, I think we got a good draw today, which kind of makes up for the morning guys starting on Thursday, I would say, so I'm pretty pleased with the conditions.  
   
 Q.   It's a huge event, big Tour event and yet here you are in the top six going into the last day.   Can you almost believe this is happening?   
SCOTT HENRY:   It's a great feeling.   The crowds are awesome out there, so many people around, and I don't know if it's a Celtic connection, but they certainly seem to be cheering me on pretty well.   I'm enjoying all the applause.   But I mean I believe that I belong to play here and that's what I'm always practicing for.   
   
 Q.   You had the one win last year in the Kazakhstan Open, which gave you the route into the big tour.   You have had that feeling before, so will that stand you tomorrow?  
SCOTT HENRY:   It's going to be different this time, I think I'm going to be four shots back, so I know I have to score low tomorrow to have a chance obviously if the weather is going to be like this.   I mean, winning on any tour stands you in good stead, so hopefully get the same feelings going as what we had in Kazakhstan last year.   
   
 Q.   That was a great run you had?   
SCOTT HENRY:   A bit of a shaky start.   
   
 Q.   What was the cause?   
SCOTT HENRY:   I just kind of‑‑ it was cold and there was a bit of wind there, and hit a couple of approach shots from like 40 feet away, so just too far to be hitting it.   I made two 3‑putts, but I was miles away from the hole.   So it wasn't great shots I was hitting in.   
I just managed to get the ball back in play and then go from there.   
   
 Q.   The belief that you belong, at this stage, is it going on all the time?  
SCOTT HENRY:   Obviously it's not been a great year for me so far.   It would be easy to get down and stuff in there, and I have had some good scores but I've just not put it together for four days.   I've had a lot of good rounds and it's just trying to cut down the silly errors.   
   
 Q.   The ability to shoot low more than once, maybe it's coming, eliminating the mistakes gradually.   
SCOTT HENRY:   It's something I've got to work on and I need to stay a bit more even keel through my rounds when things are not going so well.  
   
 Q.   You still get a bit annoyed with yourself?   
SCOTT HENRY:   A little bit, but I am getting better.   That seems to be helping me bounce back quicker.   And once I get on a run, it keeps me pretty hot.   
   
 Q.   I know you're focusing on your own game but can you learn playing with some guys like Pablo, who has won a few times on Tour?  
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, he was really nice to me all day.   You're always learning out here, you're always learning, even from guys I played with last year on The Challenge Tour and stuff like that.   You still pick up things that they do maybe slightly better.   
But yeah, he's a nice, creative player.   I like to think I'm that type of player, as well, so it's nice to try and feed off it a little bit as well.  
   
 Q.   Be fair to say that even though you won Kazakhstan last year, tomorrow's round will be one of the most important of your European Tour career?  
SCOTT HENRY:   I would say so, but I could look at it like that, but it's just at the end of the day, it's just another round, isn't it.   I started poorly today, could quite easily have let that gobble me up.   I take a lot from that today, coming back from a bad start today, pretty happy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT