THE IRISH OPEN
June 28, 2013
Scott Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SCOTT HENRY:   To be honest before going out today I thought the rain was going to come on and I knew it was going to be tough conditions this afternoon, and was wind of having a laugh and a joke with a few of the lads that had already played this morning. 
I played really well.   I managed to keep my emotions a bit more in check today.   Yesterday was tough in the morning with the bad weather again, but I just dealt with it better today and I played really well, no bogeys, so I was really pleased with that.

Q.   Most people would be happy with 68‑69, and you shot 64. 
SCOTT HENRY:   It's always in the back of your mind, especially recently I missed a few cuts and I missed a cut by a shot and things like that.   It's always in the back of your mind, but I think eagled 13 and I just thought about, I'm actually in the hunt now so I can kind of enjoy it a bit more and I started playing even better. 

Q.   Anything to tell about the eagle, given that's an eagle two there?
SCOTT HENRY:   It's a blind hole so you don't really see what's happening down at the green.   I hit a 3‑wood onto about four feet and just knocked it in.   It was nice to get over the hill and see it was only four feet away. 

Q.   And that's a beautiful finish, as well?
SCOTT HENRY:   I was lucky with my tee shot.   My tee shot just squeezed past the bunker on the left and that meant I could lay up, I hit a good spot and put a nice wedge on.

Q.   Can I ask about Wentworth, I presume you will have learned a few things from then?
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, Wentworth was a sore one.   The first day, felt great, I played really nice, and then the afternoon, the weather conditions just got so tough and it kind of gobbled me up a bit, and I could have dealt with it better there, but yeah, I did learn a lot.   I learnt how I need to being more patient and kind of manage my emotions better in the bad weather.   Maybe that stood me in good stead today. 
I don't know what the weather is going to be like but I'm looking forward to playing the weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT