BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2013
Scott Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your first time in the BMW PGA Championship, and your name is right at the top of the board; try to describe how that feels.   
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, it was nice to see going around the back nine there.   I guess it was kind of a bit surreal because this morning, I was pretty nervous.   Obviously it's a huge tournament and you definitely feel that on the first tee, but I started with a bogey which was kind of disappointing but from there on, it was good playing.   I made some good birdies and a nice eagle, as well.  
   
 Q.   What was the strength of your game today?   
SCOTT HENRY:   It was just all pretty good.   Actually the first time this year I kind of put everything together.   There's been too many rounds so far this year where I've hit it great and just not converted putts.   
But today I kept it going with a couple of good up‑and‑downs, and then I holed a few     ind of 20‑footers as well, so that really helps the scorecard.   
   
 Q.   You didn't even know you were in this championship until Monday morning; tell us a little bit about that?  
SCOTT HENRY:   I knew it was on the fringe and I knew it was going to be tight for getting in.   I just made my arrangements to come anyway just in case.   
Obviously when I got the news on Monday, I was delighted to get in.   And the preparation just started, first time I've ever been here, so it was great to see the course on Tuesday, I love it.   It's a great test of golf and just really enjoying it.   
It was good, I have been hitting the ball well for quite a long time now.   Just not been holing the putts.   So it was good to hole a few, and holed a few 20‑footers which is nice.   It's always a bit of a surprise when you hole a long putt, but it's certainly a nice sight to see.  
   
 Q.   And there was a long putt or two out there.   
SCOTT HENRY:   I bogeyed the first and on the second I must have holed from about 45 feet.   That kind of got me back, kind of settled me down to be honest.   It was a big‑‑ it feels like a big occasion.   It's a big tournament.   There's loads of people around.   It feels like a special place, as well.   The course is awesome.   
   
 Q.   It is a big occasion, and presumably you puff your chest out and think:   I can do this, this is nice.   
SCOTT HENRY:   Like I say, I've been hitting it well, and today was just‑‑ it was just nice to have everything consistent.   Good chipping, good putting, and then my long game has been going well like I've been saying, so I stand here a happy man.   
   
 Q.   How tricky was it?   
SCOTT HENRY:   It was really cold this morning.   I had everything, I had every part of clothing I had in my bag.   My poor caddie has to carry it around; it was a light bag this morning, but it's a heavy bag now.   
   
 Q.   It's been a nice lightning rise from winning on the Alps tour in Austria, nice victory in Kazakhstan last year and now here?  
SCOTT HENRY:   Yeah, it's been slow progress, right from when I turned pro, I knew I was going to have lift my levels.   Yeah, like you say, it was great to win last year at Kazakhstan.     That's basically why I'm here.   I'm just trying to learn from the better players and get my game up to that level.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel that sense of progress moving from one event to another?   
SCOTT HENRY:   I do.   But like I've been saying, I've not made great progress with my putting, but I've started working with a new putting coach and that's really helped, Phil Kenyon, starting to pay off.   Nothing better than seeing it go in the hole.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT