MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 4, 2020
Haley Moore
Michele Moore
Roberta Bowman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us here in the virtual interview room today.
This is the first press conference that we're having at the Marathon Classic Presented by Dana, and it's a very special one for all us, as we're getting to launch a very new DriveOn spot with one of our rookies on tour, Haley Moore.
I am very pleased to be joined today by Haley, and also Haley's mom, Michele, and our chief branding and communications officer, Roberta Bowman.
So before I get started chatting with this group, I wanted everyone to have the chance.  At 11:00 a.m. eastern time this morning we debuted Haley's spot, 30 second spot as well as a first-person piece written by Haley and a first-person piece written by Michele on the subject of what the spot will be.
But I want everyone to see the spot first, so going to show that off.  Why doesn't everyone take a look at Haley's DriveOn spot.  (Video played.)
Beautiful. That's a really, really powerful spot.  And I'm sure I know you've been busy out on the golf course getting ready for the tournament this week, but the reaction on social media has been really strong, and so many people have been talking about how the spot has resonated with them.  Sharing words of encourage for you and how excited they are to follow your career.
First off, just give my a little take on what it's been like to now see spot out there and what it means to you.
HALEY MOORE:   It definitely means a lot.  I mean, I have a really inspiring message for all young kids and adults who still go through bullying these days.  To see all this come through together with Roberta's help and everyone through LPGA, just thank you.  I'm so blessed to be part of this DriveOn story.
THE MODERATOR:   Well, thank you for sharing your story with all of us.  I want to talk to your mom for just a second.
Michele, this piece is powerful for all of us to see, but I'm sure it's even more powerful for you as mom watching it.  You shared a beautiful first-person story about what it's like to be a parent of a child who is bullied.
What does it now mean to see that spot, and what does it mean to see Haley being loved by so many people around the world that have seen this spot?
MICHELE MOORE:   Yeah, the spot is amazing, and a parent of a golfer, I believe it's really more important to be their best friend and not their coach, you know, when they're playing golf.
Bullied children don't really have a whole lot of friends, and there is even fewer safety outlets for them to go to when this happens.  So for me, I want it be not only mom bu as a big sister.  It's easy to just tell a child, Oh, kids will be kids.  It'll get better.  But most of the time that doesn't really work.
So I just wanted to make sure that Haley had every opportunity to showcase her talents and make them better and stronger.  I've been her No. 1 fan the whole step of the way.
THE MODERATOR:   Well you can tell that in everything you've done, and you raised a wonderful daughter.  We're so excited to have her as part of our tour.
Roberta, this spot is slightly different than some of the other spots that we've seen in DriveOn.  What was the kind of driving force behind this, and what does it mean to you now to see this piece out there and see the reaction that it's getting?
ROBERTA BOWMAN:   Yeah, and I know we've got some folks joining us today that may not have been part of our DriveOn story.  So just in a word, DriveOn is the LPGA's campaign to celebrate that spirit of resilience and hard work and big dreams, and it's the platform that we have to tell our players' stories.
We know that people care about golf and they care about the LPGA, but they care about people a lot.  So our players are just rich in stories, and quite honestly, I have the world's best job in helping to shape those stories.
When we introduced DriveOn we said obviously it's not just about golf, and it certainly isn't just for women, and Haley's story was the perfect one to make that point.  Depending on the statistics you read, somewhere around 30% of young teens worldwide experience bullying.  And sadly, even though the types of bullying may have changed, bullying has been around for -- well, forever.
If you're a golf fan, you know a little bit about Haley.  Some of the media on our call today -- I saw Bethan is with us.  Bethan, the folks at Golf Channel, they've all done a great job introducing us to Haley and her story.
You know, Haley has always dreamed of playing on the LPGA Tour, and two of my friends and I were with her at the Q Series when she earned her card.  The ability to see someone achieve their dream is really pretty special.
But there is a line in the video that I thought was so important, and that is, What makes you different makes you stronger.  And in Haley's case, I think what makes her different makes her really special.  She's easy to recognize and she's really hard to forget.  And that combination, her fabulous personal presence, and her terrific play on the golf course, give her an incredible way of connecting with people of all ages.
It's a wonderfully important platform.  Quite honestly, the fun thing here is I think Haley's true story is just beginning, and we all get to be part of that next chapter.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Roberta.  And it is really special to be a part od this with Haley and to be able to tell her story to an even bigger audience and really let her help tell that story.
I'm going to open it up for questions.  If you have a question, please just send us a note in the group chat.  I'll call on you and we'll get a chance to discuss.
I also want to introduce, we have some very special guests joining our media members today.  They are members of our Girls Golf Program and our Girls Leadership Academies, which we'll be calling on them a little bit later for some of their questions as well.
Q. Yeah, so this question is actually for mom.  I'm curious if either of you have talked to kids who have been bullied who have read your story or heard your story on Golf Channel and reached out looking for advice?  Or parents, too?
MICHELE MOORE:   Bethan, did you say that was for me?
Q. Both of you.  Maybe you've heard from other parents who have asked for advice, or children?
MICHELE MOORE:   A couple of times.  There is one story that I can share with you.  We were at -- it was a Saturday morning, and ironically, on Saturdays my husband works as an ambassador at one of the local golf courses.
And when Haley is home, because she's been so busy, we kind of go over there because the breakfast burritos with the salsa are super good.
So we go, Oh, let's go mooch off dad's account and let's get a breakfast burrito.  While we were there, there was actually going to be a junior tournament there later, so there were kids warming up, and a mother and daughter came over to us because they had recognized Haley and just started talking.  Loved her story.  They didn't really -- they didn't ask us a whole lot about bullying.  They recognized her and loved her story.  They felt she was inspiring.
And then that actually wound up -- the conversation wound up getting to the father who happened to be like out on the course who ran into my husband, Haley's dad, you know, then it came full circle.  Later when he got home he started talking about it, and it was the same exact family.
So it's been pretty cool.  She definitely gets recognized and people talk about it and we talk about hopefully being able to get her foundation off and running so that she can help people who have been in her shoes.
Q. Yeah, Haley, if you can, speak to your foundation and what you would like it to be one day.
HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, I would just love just to basically tell my story of what I -- what had happened to me and how I overcame it.  I think just telling the girls, telling all the kids, like what I did to overcome it and what -- just basically -- yeah, tell them all the steps I did to process it and ask tell them like don't let other people judge you.  You just keep doing what you want to do and everything like that.
Q. One of these days we are going to get back to having fans at golf events.  When we do, a lot of those fans are going to be kids who come up to you who want to share their bullying stories.  When that happens, are you prepared for it?  What do you expect to say to them?
HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, I'll definitely be prepared.  I mean, all stories are going to be different, so, I mean, being there could be times where it may be a little more worse than mine, experienced it way more,  so we could both get emotional.
I'll always just kind of say my part and everything.  I'm just excited to share them and see how they have overcome it or what they want to have overcome from it.  So as long as -- if they want some help I can definitely get them in the right direction and everything.
Q. For Michele and Haley both, how uplifting has it been to get such a positive reaction from Haley's story?
MICHELE MOORE:   It's pretty amazing.  You know, I find myself -- she shared it on her various platforms.  I'm not as computer savvy as her so I haven't figured out how to share it on Instagram yet.  I go on her Instagram account and see how many views and all the comments.
Social media is truly, truly just exploding.  It's a very similar situation to back after she won the NCAAs and I had my first interview with Bethan.  Beth put out a story about it, and the following that we got from that point on, it almost -- it seems like that.
I know it's coming full circle adding my perspective and everything.  Yeah, she's got so many fans, and it'll be really, really exciting once we're able to play with fans again, they're able to play with fans again.  I don't play.  She plays.
The following that she's going to have and all the stories we're going to hear, hopefully we'll be able to help a lot of these people once the foundation gets up and running.
Q. Haley, could you touch on that, how uplifting it's been to see the reaction?
HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, I played this morning a Pro-Am over at Inverness.  Once the story had been launched, I could just feel vibrations on my apple watch with everyone who was retweeting and talking about it and commenting and sharing it.
It's just great that all the platforms of the LPGA USGA, Girls' Golf, and other basically organizations are sharing it as they have -- as they have kids that will have dealt with this before.
I'm just amazed.  I mean, when we do have fans again, I'm just really looking forward to being who I am and just telling them everything that I had overcome and just trying to help them get back to their normal life if they were --  they are struggling.  I hate to see kids struggling with this type of stuff.  I mean, it's not right for anyone.
ROBERTA BOWMAN:   I know sadly over your upbringing you were called some names.  Fans today said that you were a super bad ass, and that's a compliment.
HALEY MOORE:   Oh, my gosh.  That's pretty cool.  Yeah, I've heard that from other people, especially when I made the putt.  So for it to be more -- just to be more special about how I overcame it, that was pretty cool.  Thanks for sharing.
Q. Haley, do you feel privileged to be in a sort of unique position in that you can really make a difference to struggling kids, can't you?  To what extent do you realize that?
HALEY MOORE:   Uh-huh.  I realize my story is truly powerful, and I want to help every young girl and boy, everyone, who has been.  And I think just being able to tell my story in front of a whole platform of kids who have been bullied, I mean, they have different stories, too.
I just feel like my points that I will give to them definitely will help them.  I mean, I always want them -- I just want everyone who has been struggling to be able to get over it and not always go home thinking, If I go outside, what are people going to think of me.  Or, If I see these kids again who are saying this stuff, I don't want them to spread it around to other people.
I just want to figure out ways to get over it and I just I think the messages that I will tell them, they'll be very thankful, and hopefully they can get it all back together and just see the light in their life again.
Q. Have you ever answered people back when they have been bullying, or do you just sort of accept it and move on and store it, realize that it'll be useful for you to pass on to others and how you coped?
HALEY MOORE:   I had some people approach me with kind of what has happened to them, so I just have told them my message.  They just are like, Thank you.  I look forward to watching you compete, and I really hope we can meet in person one day and talk more.
So I just think just sending out all my messages is just very powerful to them as well.
THE MODERATOR:   Bethan?
Q. I'm just curious when you felt like you were strong enough or ready to talk about this?  Because I would imagine on some level at some point this would have maybe opened an old wound.  When did you feel like it was time?
HALEY MOORE:   I pretty much kind of felt it kind of during my college years.  I mean, when I came out my freshman year, coming in second right away, I was still a pretty young girl and still pretty shy and everything.
I feel like it really did take off when we did win the national championship together as a team.  We all came together.  I mean, I overcame a lot to even get to college.  Like I knew -- I just knew that my teammates, all my coaches had knew what was going on.
Just I think with them hearing my story, they just always want to protect me, and I they knew that they were always there for me.  I think just pretty much right during my college career when it all had happened was when everyone was I think now on the lookout and ask really wanted to follow me and wanted to always -- just wanted to follow me and keep following me throughout my whole career.
THE MODERATOR:   I am now going to go to Ophelia from our Girls' Golf Program.
OPHELIA BUNEL:   Thank you.  Hi.  My name is Ophelia Bunel; I'm ten years old, and I am from Girls' Golf University of Miami.  It's an incredible honor to meet you and get to know you.  You've had a remarkable career making two LPGA starts in 2015 at only 15 years old.  For my first question, what mentally prepared you to compete in LPGA events, and what was it like and how did it feel?
HALEY MOORE:   To mentally prepare for an LPGA event is definitely a lot different.  I mean, you see these girls, you watch them on TV who are just hitting these shots and you're like, I want to be her one day.
So I think you have to just kind of watch how they play, and then you just kind of compare your game to theirs and be like, Okay, my driving is good.  Then just kind of keep doing -- just keep practicing how you are practicing.
Everyone has a different practice routine and everything.  I just think that has really helped me out here, just kind of getting to know some more girls and everything and just stuff like that.
OPHELIA BUNEL:   I love that.  Thank you.  You played at one the best golf colleges, the University of Arizona, and were selected by a coach to be the anchor for your team, sinking the winning putt for the NCAA Women's National Championship.  Walk us through the final moments and tell us what that was like.
HALEY MOORE:   It was definitely exciting and nerve wracking at the same time just because it wasn't -- the 19th hole had come down to me.  I was just like -- I could see my teammates in the corner.  They were all huddled up.  I was like, oh, my gosh, oh, my gosh.  I have this putt to win the national championship, and it was a goal of mine to compete for one when I was at U of A my four years.
Just walking up to the putt a little nervous.  I just took a deep breath and I was like, Okay, you got this.  You can do it.  And right when it went in I just saw my teammates run over and both of my coaches were just so emotional.
I mean, we just -- it was a great moment for all of us and I -- it'll be a moment that I'll cherish forever in my heart.
OPHELIA BUNEL:   I saw the video of it.  It was so amazing to watch it.
HALEY MOORE:   Thank you.
OPHELIA BUNEL:   It made me so happy to watch it.
Last year I saw you at the 2019 Augusta National Women's Amateur where you tied for seventh place.  My family and I were in awe of what you and all those ladies were doing to help the game of golf grow.
From the beginning you've been able to pave roads for girls like me.  What drives you to do that?
HALEY MOORE:   I think just competing and just keep competing.  I mean, to be able to play at Augusta was just a dream come true.  Everyone wants to play there.
So I think just for the greatest women's amateur golfers to go out there and play and show all these younger amateurs that, Hey, this tournament is very up and coming for you guys; you can definitely go out there and play your best and get an invite to this event.
I think just playing competitive golf just drives me to get better and better every day, and knowing to get my next step of coming out here to compete with the pros and one day winning a big tournament out here.
OPHELIA BUNEL:   Thank you.  One of the unique things about your story is that we can all relate to feeling different or not fitting in.  During this time of uncertainty, what do you say to empower young people?  How can we grow as a people during this time and go from being cruel to kind?
HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, just really just don't let those people judge you, how you look or if you say -- or if you have weird sayings or if you talk different.  Just keep doing what you want to do.  Like if you have a dream, dream it.  If you want to get there, you always have to believe in it.
Once you achieve it, you'll be the greatest one that everyone will talk about and everyone will remember about you.
OPHELIA BUNEL:   You are definitely that.
HALEY MOORE:   Thank you.
ROBERTA BOWMAN:   Ophelia, I got to tell you, Bethan and Kyle, they're getting worried right about now.  You brought game to this.  You are awesome.  Thank you.
OPHELIA BUNEL:   Thank you.  All you guys are awesome.
THE MODERATOR:   I'll just echo what Roberta said.  Thank you for your great questions and really, really insightful.  I do know we love aspiring journalists too, so you might have a career in this field.
OPHELIA BUNEL:   Thank you.  I just want to thank you all for doing this.  I have to say as a girl playing golf, the campaigns that you guys have been doing are really inspiring.  I've watched a lot of them and I've seen -- it's really amazing to see all the players' stories.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Ophelia.  We really appreciate that, and it we can't wait to hopefully hear your story right alongside Haley's.
Q. All girl golfers want to win, be the winner, and yet you've got such goodwill from your sister competitors.  Has that surprised you?  A, did it surprise you on the amateur tour, and is the goodwill towards you the same on the pro tour, or do you feel it even more strongly?
HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, I mean, I always want to always compete to win.  I mean, definitely having the competitive edge of being in college, and, I mean, having people say that like watch out for Haley Moore; she's a great amateur golfer.
Just hearing that, knowing I have the game and the tenacity to go out there and play with these girls and just, you never know, one day -- you just never know.  One day I could come out there and play really well and actually be able to win.
Q. You feel that kindness and their warmth toward you, Haley, do you?
HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, I do.  Definitely.
Q. Did you expect that?
HALEY MOORE:   Kind of, yes, kind of no.  It's a little bit of 50/50.
THE MODERATOR:   Haley, I know in in your first-person story you talked about what that has meant seeing some of the other LPGA players come up and talk to you and welcome you like just one of the many players that are out there on tour.
Does it mean a lot to feel that sense?  You talked about at Arizona that feeling of team but still having that feeling of family out on the LPGA as well?
HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, definitely.  I mean, when I played the ANA in 2015 as an amateur I met some pros out there.  I mean, I met one really girl who has been out here a while, Christina Kim.  She was at Q Series with me as well.  We both got our cards.  She's always going to be looking out for me.
I mean, the tournament with my mom or no one from my family will travel, she'll be like my tour mommy just to make sure I'm always doing okay and making sure that I'm getting involved with the tour and making sure that I'm doing everything good.
So I think just getting to know some friends out here and some girls who have been out here kind of create like a little family pod, I think.  It's just very helpful out here.
THE MODERATOR:   I know you played a lot, even during the downtime.  You were able to find some practice tour events.  Went out there and won some of them.  What that's been like getting ready for the restart on the LPGA Tour, and how much confidence do you bring back to playing on tour.
HALEY MOORE:   My game is pretty confident with the top level as of now.  I won my last two events with really good scores, really low scores, 64 and 62.  One of those events it was a -- did an all pro tour, all pro event, so all pros played.  I got to play with Anna Nordqvist and Alena Sharp and some other good pro golfers who were in the Phoenix area.
So to compete with them on a mini tour just kind of -- I mean, I learned from them, and I think just playing alongside them just kind of can show how competitive my game is compared to theirs to be able to compete out here with them, too.
THE MODERATOR:   One last call out for questions from anyone else.  I think we've got one more.
Q. Haley, can you give us your schedule for the next few weeks, please?
HALEY MOORE:   Okay, so I'll be here at Marathon, and then I will be going over to Scotland to play the Scottish Open.  I'm not in the British yet, but I'm hoping to have a good week here or in Scotland to earn my way.
If I don't, I'm excited to go to over to Scotland.  The golf is amazing back there.  The weather can be different every hour, but I'm just excited to just keep traveling around the world.
After this I'm in the Wal-Mart, and then after that I think we'll just kind of go from there.  Some of the tournaments are down to limited field, so not sure if I'll get into those ones.
I'm just excited to be back out here playing of the world is different right now.  But just to be back out playing, what I love to do, it's just great.
Q. What do you know about the Renaissance where you'll be playing?
HALEY MOORE:   Nothing.
Q. How much do you want to be in the Women's Open?
HALEY MOORE:   I mean, I've heard great things about Troon.  I played well in Melbourne and Australia.  I feel like any course that has the word royal in front of it has some history and background.
If I could play if the British it would be very special, and definitely help me with the -- it's the first major as well for the LPGA, so I think to start off like that would be pretty cool.
THE MODERATOR:   Wonderful.  I don't think we have any more questions from the media.  I'm going to end it with one question for Haley and Michele and Roberta.
Haley, it's really the same for all of you.  As you look at this spot now and you've seen it and seen the reaction -- we heard from Ophelia, we've heard from other young girls that are on this call -- what do you hope that they take away from your message, and what do you hope they see when they watch your 30-second DriveOn spot?
HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, I just want them to feel themselves.  Just don't let those cruel people who are telling you stuff to judge you.  Just go on and do what you want to do.  I mean, if it's playing golf or playing any sport that you want to do, just go out there and keep doing you.
I mean, you'll get looked at, but just try to wipe that from your mind and just keep going.
And it's always great to set goals, so always set goals.  When you set goals, you always achieve it, and so once you achieve all those goals, then you'll be a name for yourself and everyone will start talking about you and everything.
THE MODERATOR:   That is a very powerful message, Haley.
Michele you must be very proud as a mom to hear that.  Michele, what do you hope that parents, as they watch this spot and read your story, will take away from this?
MICHELE MOORE:   I just hope that parents know that -- I mean, just try to keep the same message going, that every person is unique, don't let anybody tell them that they cannot do anything.
Three words that we've kind of used throughout this process is dream, believe, achieve.  Doesn't matter how different you are, everybody has a dream.  Everybody.  Then you believe in it and you go out and achieve it, and don't let anybody stop you.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.  And that is so powerful.  I know as a parent to a young daughter, when I read your piece I did cry because it was just so strong and moving.
Haley, your piece as well.
And I know Roberta, we have had a lot of amazing stories from our players, and this one is definitely a special one that we think will resonate to a lot of people.
What do you hope people get out of this latest DriveOn spot?
ROBERTA BOWMAN:   Well, I actually have two thoughts.  If those mean girls and boys at Bear Valley Middle School could see Haley now.
And the other, I'm just going to quote a really wise LPGA player.  She says something like this:  We're all born perfectly for what we're meant to accomplish in this life.
I think that Haley's greatest work on the golf course and perhaps as importantly off the golf course has yet to come.  So to her, a hardy DriveOn.
THE MODERATOR:   Those are the perfect words for us to end on.  Thank you everyone for joining us this afternoon.  We look forward to seeing all the amazing things you're going to accomplish in your career on the LPGA Tour and also the message you'll be leaving with so many others through telling your story.
So thank you, and DriveOn.
HALEY MOORE:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT