NBA RISING STARS 2017
February 17, 2017
Jay Larranaga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








World Team - 150
U.S. Team - 141
Q. Coach, I asked the same question to Mike Brown just before.  I'm interested in the point of view of a coach in a game like this where fun is more important than getting the win.  When do you start pushing for the win?  When do you let your players just have fun?
JAY LARRANAGA: Yeah, I think to a coach, the winning is the most important.  It's hard to separate that.  But you want everyone to enjoy the experience.  You want to give equal opportunities for each guy to be on the court and to enjoy All-Star weekend.  So that was important to me.
You know, obviously, Jamal Murray had a great game and didn't play the most minutes of any of the guys.  So I think it's like always.  You make the most of your opportunities, and he really did that.
Q. Even though it's a fun game and a light game, was there any sense on the U.S. Team that there was some national pride at stake here?
JAY LARRANAGA: We didn't really talk about that.  These guys experience games like this a lot now.  You have the Hoop Summit game now.  You have AAU, where you're not only playing against teams from other states, you're playing teams from other countries.  So we didn't really talk about that.  It's more about just doing your job and enjoy playing basketball.  Competing it fun.  Playing hard is fun.  Trying to win the game is fun.  So we just focused on that.
Q. Coach, can you talk about Frank Kaminsky, especially in the second half, seven three-pointers that he dropped, and just the way he was playing out there.
JAY LARRANAGA: For me, the most enjoyable part was watching the guys on the bench get excited for him making those shots.  They were all up jumping, celebrating it, and that's why I think basketball is such a great sport is it's a team sport.  When you can enjoy your teammates' success, even in a short time period like this -- you know, we had a practice this morning.  Frank starts to get it going, and everyone's enjoying it.  So that was fun.  Obviously, happy for him.  Probably should have just let him play the whole game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT