CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2006
Salimah Mussani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Just a quick comment about the fans today.
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  It's wonderful, seeing a lot of friends come out to watch, and just as you walk by, people saying, "Go Canada" or "Go Burlington," and it's just nice to know everybody is behind you.
Q.  A lot of long putts today.  Was that pretty much the demise of the round?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Yeah, I didn't hit it very close very often.  18 was pretty much the closest shot I hit all day.  At least I capitalized on it.  I would have been pretty upset if I didn't.
Q.  To be able to play four rounds at this level, just what's your feeling or overall general    I know making the cut is exciting.
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  It's great.  I got to play with Jill McGill today, who is a Tour veteran, and she had a lot of good things to say to me.  She just said you could be out here easily.  It's just nice to play.  She was very friendly.  We joked around all day, told jokes.  It's nice, you feel like you belong.
Q.  Did it help the round go a little quicker?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Yeah, definitely.  Twosomes helps, too.  We did have to wait a little bit.  I don't know how long it took in the end, probably four hours or so.  But it seemed to move pretty good.
Q.  Do you feel a lot stronger because I think the first two rounds were five and a half hour rounds?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Exactly.  It went by a lot quicker.  It was almost a perfect tee time.  I got to sleep in late enough, didn't have to get up on the 5s.  Now I'm done and ready for lunch.  It's perfect.
Q.  So you like to play on the weekend obviously?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Yeah.
Q.  You're finding out it would be nice to keep
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  It would, definitely.
Q.  What Jill said, having played, does this back up your experience in terms of looking forward to getting out here?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Exactly.  I get to play another LPGA event in two weeks down at The Rail in Illinois, so I get another chance to be out there with the LPGA girls.  It's just another chance for me to see where I am and get some more experience.  I mean, this is all building blocks to hopefully one day be on the Tour full time.
Q.  How has that experience been so far?  Are you confident in your game and that you're getting where you need to be?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  I know you need to hit it closer.  You can't have 50 footers all day.  You're just not going to make them.  I know what I need to work on.  It's evident in stats and whatnot, but when it comes down to it, short game and putting is where you save your strokes.  You always have to be working on that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT