CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2006
Salimah Mussani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SALIMAH MUSSANI:  ...hand warmers and it was perfect for me, and also having a morning time and not having to sit around all afternoon and think about the day to come.
Q.  You've dreamed about playing in this tournament for a long time.  What was the reality like?  What did it feel like?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  It was fun.  I had a really good time.  I looked at the day as just another day on the golf course and hung in there.  It wasn't my best ball striking day, but I'll take it.
Q.  Talk about how the golf course is set up today.
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Some of the pins were tricky today.  They had some good spots on par 3s.  And the rough, if you're in the rough, it's definitely penalizing.  You have to be smart out of it.  It played hard and fast, for sure.
Q.  It was a long round out there.  I noticed a guy came up and talked to your group on 12.  Was that to speed you up?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  No.  There was actually a hole location change on the 14th hole, so he was just notifying us of that change.
Q.  Did it seem like a long round to you?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Yes.  We waited a lot, but I guess that's to be expected.
Q.  So you're happy with 1 over given the fact you didn't hit it all that close and didn't give yourself a lot of good chances?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Yes.  If I had more chances    I did have some 3 putts and I did miss a short putt I would like to forget about, but it happens.
Q.  You came home with two really good saves.
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Definitely.  I was happy with the finish there.
Q.  Given that we're in the hottest part of the day, will you rest now?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Yes, I'll go have some lunch, relax, and I don't play until the afternoon tomorrow so if I don't come out until late in the evening I'll be all right.
Q.  They say this tournament is so much harder for the Canadians because of the expectations.  How did you find it for yourself?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  Most of the pressure is pressure you put on yourself.  There are a lot of expectations.  It's our national championship and you want to play well and be around for the weekend.  Tomorrow I have to be more dialed in with my irons and hopefully the putts will drop.
Q.  You're considered to be one of the big hopes for the future.  How do you see Canadian golf right now and how do things look for the future?
SALIMAH MUSSANI:  There are a lot of good Canadians playing on the Futures Tour, where I'm playing right now, and doing well.  I think it's a bright future.  We have Lorie Kane and Dawn Coe and all those to look up to.  I think it's a positive future for Canada.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT