ENERGIZER SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 1997
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HALE IRWIN:  Well, the hope was to have the kind of round I did have, get off to a good solid start, post a good score.  And, whether it be the lead or not in the lead wasn't the driving force.  It was just to play a lot of good solid golf, which I did do.  Pretty much a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  Not terribly aggressive.  In fact, probably hit more fairway woods off the tee today than I have in years past just to make sure that I practiced what I have been preaching and that is: Don't hit the accelerator yet, you don't have to do that.  Just make the best of what presents it self and for the most part, that is what I did. 
 
HALE IRWIN:  First birdie came at the third hole, hit a drive and a 5-iron to within twelve feet of the hole, making that for birdie.  Birdied the 4th hole, par 5 again hitting a 4-wood off the tee and laying up with a 5-iron hitting a sand wedge to within five feet of the hole making that.  Birdieing number -- actually made a really good save at 8, after a good drive and I laid up.  Unfortunately, it was in an old divot which had been filled with sand and had a bad lie in the sand so, it was -- I really had a hard time even advancing the ball to the green, which I didn't do.  I put it in the bunker from where I made about a 10-foot putt for a par.  Then I birdied No. 9, making, oh, 25-foot putt there for birdie.  And 3-putted No. 14, from about 30 feet, leaving the first putt six feet short and missing that.  But, I came back with a birdie at 15, again a conservative approach with a 4-wood off the tee and 3-iron lay up and pitching wedge to about six feet and making that for birdie?  Is that right; is that the par 5? 
 
HALE IRWIN:  Then again 4-wood off the next tee hitting a pitching wedge to within six feet of the hole. Making that for birdie.  And 2-putting the last two holes.  So, again, pretty much an unspectacular round in terms of aggressive play, but very effective and the kind of round I wanted to play. 
 

Q.  You were talking about hitting the 4-woods off the tee and stuff.  If it was Sunday afternoon and you were looking at  the leaderboard, tied with the lead, is that the same shot that you hit Sunday or do you go to a driver?
 
HALE IRWIN:  We will see.  That is hypothetical and three days out.  Some of the holes, for instance, the par 5s, why, like 15, there is a water hazard down there.  Gil hit a really good drive and really good 3-wood and didn't get to the green so why in the world am I thinking I can do that?  So, I am going to lay up, so why not lay up out of harm's way.  And that is pretty much what I have tried to do.  I have tried to take some of the -- I have tried to ease into it, rather than trying to hit a driver than -- rather than laying up with a 4-iron, now I am laying up with a 2- or 3-iron, for instance.  It is just more pressure.  I think there is enough going on this week in trying to accommodate all the things that I am trying to accommodate here.  And, just makes it a lot easier.  We will think about drivers on Sunday, but not today. Although I did hit a lot of drivers - don't get me wrong. There were three or four holes where I might have hit drivers last year and I didn't today. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT