SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 27, 2012
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Extends your record as the oldest finishing in the top‑5 in a Major. 
HALE IRWIN:   Really? 

Q.   Yes. 
HALE IRWIN:   Statistics.   Talking about it the other day, I don't pay attention to statistics. 

Q.   A few comments about the day and the overall week. 
HALE IRWIN:   The overall, I think we had a great championship.   The course was there for the taking today, it was, the wind died down and some of the hole locations were a little less severe than what we have seen the last few days, as attested by the early scores that came in.   There was some fabulous scores. 
But tee to green I think I played reasonably well.   I just putted so poorly for the week and I'm not going to lay that off on putting alone, but these are difficult greens to putt, but I just didn't strike the putts very well and hopefully the, that's sort of, again like I said the other day, a tale of two cities.   You got the tale of the tee to green and you got the tale of the greens.   Well today and this week really it was the tale of how I got to the greens was very good and how I putted the greens was very poor. 
So I got some adjustments to make.   I've got some ideas in mind.   We'll see before the, I guess it will be next week, my experiment will have to end the week after that when we go to The Tradition.

Q.   Early in the week would you have imagined some of the low scores that were posted today?
HALE IRWIN:   No, but as I said and I think some of the other players said, it's a matter of adjusting.   The players have not seen this course and you saw each day the scores, the players got a little bit more comfortable, they knew where to play, they knew how the balls were going to bounce.   I mean, familiarity breeds low scores. 
And as I said earlier, the course was really the easiest we have seen all week, as far as wind and weather and some of the hole locations were a bit more accessible than they have been in the past. 

Q.   Even though you're fresh from this, can you offer initial thoughts on this championship being in Bellerive next year?
HALE IRWIN:   Bellerive's a great course.   It's hosted quite a few Major Championships and the last time we were there was for the U.S. Senior Open and it was a very competitive event.   I know I lost to Peter Jacobsen on the last hole.   And Nick Price had a great PGA Championship there, we have had Gary Player win the U.S. Open there, so it's going to be a very representative golf course. 
Hopefully, the grass the zoysia will have come through the winter in good shape and there won't be any winter kill.   And when that's the case I would anticipate the scoring to be low again because, simply because the grass sits the ball up so nice the players will not be challenged with any tight lies.   The challenge will be on how to putt the greens because, unlike these, there's not a lot of little bumps and lumps there, but there's a lot of big, broad slopes.   So these players just get better and better every year, but I think Bellerive will stand up to that challenge.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT