U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 1994
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. The way you closed out the front, you said you went to lunch.
Is there anyway to explain how it could change that quickly; you
start with a double bogey and then bogey a couple of more?

HALE IRWIN: Well, I think-- what I can only surmise, not necessarily
when trying to do this, but, I think, the eagle push was very
nice. I was feeling very good about that. But I had got up on
the tee; I sort of lost my concentration a little bit. I was still
reveling on how I played the hole before. There was a bit of noise
behind me. I kind of lost my concentration; didn't hit a good
3-wood. I didn't hit it so bad that I deserved the lie that I
got in the rough. It was a very bad lie. I just couldn't get it
anywhere but 50 yards down the fairway. Then I thought I played
a half way decent third, but it didn't roll six feet. Then I really
am in trouble, because you are playing that shot to roll on down.
When it doesn't, you are doing good to get out in two. Really
there was only one bad shot on the hole. But I did make a 6 out
of it so-- but it was a very sobering six; kind of got me thinking
you got to get back in it now and I did play the next hole this
way. I didn't play 12 badly. I really only had a couple of bad
shots there in. The roll I had going was terminally stopped by
that double bogey. It was just a matter then sort of picking it
back up. I knew I was still in the tournament; still had a good
chance to have a good score and had someone giving me that score
start of the day without going through the exorcism of 4 under,
2 over, I would have taken it.

Q. Do you know how many fairways and greens you hit?

HALE IRWIN: Well, for the front 9, I hit every fairway, and missed
three greens, but now we get to start on that. Missed the 10th.
I did-well, I missed 10, I missed the green, miss fairway; miss
green. 11, I hit, hit 12. I hit and hit 13. I hit -- 14 I missed
and missed. 15 I hit and hit. 16, I missed. 17, I hit. 18, I hit.
Whatever that ended up being. I didn't count. I think probably
I missed 1, 2, 3 fairways.

Q. How do you deal with the emotional roller-coaster; the double
at 10; almost knocked it in the hole at 13; struggle at 14; do
you feel yourself up and down emotionally?

HALE IRWIN: I think there is only every chance to get that way,
but I try to go back to the thought that pars are good scores
on any hole on this golf course. And if you take the two holes,
put them together, I have got two pars. Sort of a simple way of
doing it, but I am pretty simple minded. I think if you let yourself
get carried away with -- particularly the extreme bad, if you
get in a double bogey -- for instance, Fred Couples today had
some stretch of three or four holes with just really playing very
poorly. I think it kind of got away from him, although, he has
capacity to come back with a lot of birdies. That makes a very
difficult comeback. I try to put it behind me and try and play
the next hole as intelligently and aggressively as I feel that
I can. And hopefully, the good will come from it. I did some good
shots out there..

Q. Tom said today that the course played softer but the greens
were faster. Do you agree with that?

HALE IRWIN: Well, it definitely was softer. I thought that was
the most difficult part of the golf course today, not so much
that the greens were faster, but it was softer in that you could
play the balls into the greens more. Played the course for four
days; playing a long, long roll and suddenly to get yourself to
hit another club to get it back there was quite difficult to do.
But I didn't think the putting was that much more treacherous
but then again, today, I think I left the ball under the hole
more than I did yesterday. I had some ticklish ones down the hill
yesterday, and the ones I had today, I pretty much left it uphill
where I wanted to.

Q. Hale, back to the roller-coaster thing. Did the '84 Open
at Winged Foot, that finish there, did that kind of reshape your
philosophy about the Open? Did it have any impact on the way you
look at things in the Open?

HALE IRWIN: Well, '84 Open was a little different than some of
the others. I had just the nostalgia coming back from Winged Foot
from the '74 Open to '84 getting into the lead with the final
day, and I put some personal problems that my father was ill at
the time, I kind of put that ahead of myself. I just got myself
on emotional roller-coaster way out there trying to do some things
that were not conducive to good golf. I don't think it reshaped
anything as much -- it may have, I suppose, but I think it led
me to the thought that no matter what is going on off the golf
course, you can't let it carry onto the golf course. And any of
us that have any sort of personal problems, you find that hard
to do. But I had just created sort of a monster for myself. I
was not playing all that well, but I fought into a lead on Saturday,
just a lot of things. It would be fun to come back and win the
Open again, and Winged Foot ten years later, the whole romance
thing - kind of silly right now. But it was fun.

Q. You said that the course is softening up. Will that let
a lot more guys into the field, and is that a disadvantage to
you?

HALE IRWIN: I think it will. Certainly, this afternoon, it will
let them in. Because yesterday afternoon it got pretty firm out
there. I think what affected us as much as anything yesterday
was the pace of play. It was so slow. Whether that will be the
case today, I don't know, but there are a number of shots -- similar
shots today on the holes that we had yesterday and the ball was
checking up much more quickly than it did yesterday, and I sense
that that would be the case all afternoon. I didn't see the greens
sort of baking out starting to get that little bit of a firm base
to them and that sheen that they get when they get fast. I don't
think that will happen today, so it could let a few more guys
in.

Q. How did you react to the heat today, and what is your position
on the rule about no shorts?

HALE IRWIN: I thought it was hotter yesterday. Maybe because we
had to wait much more yesterday, it seemed hotter. The no shorts
thing, well, some of those guys' legs I wouldn't want to see.
But it would be nice to wear something a little bit cooler.

LES UNGER: Just to answer a previous statistical question from
Unysis info, he hit 9 fairways, and 11 greens, and had 28 putts.



Q. What is the primary reason that you are so good at U.S.
Opens?

HALE IRWIN: I don't know. How is that for an answer? Well, let
us put it this way, I don't feel when we come to an Open that
I have to change my game appreciably to play these conditions.
My game is not -- I don't hit the ball with thunderous power.
I don't seem to get myself in a whole lot of compromising positions
on the golf course to where my score is going to be materially
affected if I go this way or that way. I think I have a lot of
patience in the U.S. Open. And you have to have a lot of patience,
but I think the advantage that I may have coupled with the patience
thing is that I do not have to challenge my game a lot. In other
words, I don't have to step on it to hit a 5 or I don't have to
suddenly take the driver out of my hand and start hitting a lot
of 2-irons and fairway woods and get out of that mental sync that
some guys get in by grabbing the driver each time and hitting
and driving and hitting and now you kind of have to think your
way around here; that has always been my forte.

Q. You are playing really well all year, not just for this
Open. A lot of other players have won majors and say it is tough
for them to stay interested in anything else, but a major, it
doesn't seem as if you have that mindset and if you don't, can
you explain why? And also, have you given any thought as to how
much fun it might be to win the Open for the second time?

HALE IRWIN: Well, the fact that some may say that they only get
excited over majors, I have some agreement with that, however,
when you are playing well, as I have been this year, you get pretty
excited to play any week. You feel like -- I guess what it is
to get into contention. Sometimes it may be that the less competitive
that you become, the less fun it maybe until you get in that competitive
arena. Tom mentioned yesterday that his game is not conducive
to two and four under par now. Well, that may well be; hence,
why he is a factor this week, because two and four under is not
going to be anyway near that. So you can get excited then; you
don't feel like you have to go birdie every hole. I think it is
a little more than that. I think that in my case, I have had some
goals that I am trying to achieve. I got started on a good note
with some fundamental changes, not in my swing, but just in a
fundamental approach in how I wanted to play the game. Some new
equipment. The whole year started off on an exciting note and
I got off to a successful start. Each year, each week sort of
has been -- I'm just keeping the ball rolling, trying to do what
I can in these twilight years while I can.

Q. The fact that you won when you were a special exemption
in 1990, did that kind of restart your entire career?

HALE IRWIN: I think it would be foolish to say that it didn't
have some bearing. Absolutely. The exemption that the USGA gave
me was -- you can never properly thank them; particularly when
you go out and win, you have a chance -- but I was ready to qualify
anyway. I would have done that anyway whether I made it or not.
I don't know. The exemptions are nice to have, but who is to say
who is more deserving than the other.

Q. Did it turn things around for you winning that tournament?

HALE IRWIN: Yeah. Any time you win an Open, it can really turn
things around, quickly, but it wasn't as if I wasn't field competitive.
I think as the results that made the turnaround look more impressive
than it really was, I felt in my own mind that I made the made
the turnaround; if I didn't win that week, well then I would win
it the next week. I felt like I was playing very well. But certainly,
winning the Open on an exemption has a special significance.

Q. How about talking about important winnings. How about Hilton
Head situation. What did that do for your psyche confidence for
the rest of this year?

HALE IRWIN: Well, I was stuck on 19 wins for a few years. I kind
of wanted to get over the hump. 19 is just a bad number. I wanted
20. I think winning at Harbour Town, a course that I won my first
two tournaments, had special significance because it was a course
that I have tended to play well, that kind of a golf course through
the years. I have not been one of these players that have gone
on to play the big Open kind of -- not U.S. Open, but the wide
Open kind of courses very well. But given the conditions under
which we play at Harbour Town; very narrow fairways; very small
greens; tends to bring out my game. I tend to get better focused,
and when that is the case, then I think I am more competitive.
But coming back with any win, but particularly there, I think
was -- I felt very good about that because Harbour Town, even
though we shoot low scores there, it is still not an easy golf
course versus, let us say, a course where we -- where it is --
well, Greensboro. It is a nice golf course, but it is a much bigger
course. I tend not to play as well there than I do at a Harbour
Town kind of course. The renewal of that confidence factor was
absolutely -- it was there, no doubt that it; had a special significance
in what I have done thus far.

LES UNGER: Okay.

HALE IRWIN: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.

End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT