U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2009
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What did you think of today? What did you finish at?  
 HALE IRWIN: I had really good practice sessions. I hit the ball great then. Then yesterday I put some better shots together, made some good putts. Actually, I feel like I played even better today and shot three shots worse.  
 If I can shoot under-par around Crooked Stick on any day, I'll feel good about that.  
  
  Q. Wind seems to have been a factor today; right?  
 HALE IRWIN: Again, when we played yesterday morning week had the north wind. I think it faded just a little bit in the afternoon. But now we've got traditional wind out of the southwest, and the course is playing more like we saw it in the practice rounds. So I would anticipate today's play -- there is going be some good scores today from the players.  
  
  Q. Going into Sunday, you are going make a charge as well as a number of other people?  
 HALE IRWIN: I am? I like that. I like what you are saying.   
  
  Q. You got to think positive. You always try to think positive.   
 HALE IRWIN: But there's a certain amount of realism that has to set in. I know I'm not going to drive every green. I know I'm not going drive too many of them. But I think the effort to always try to improve, even if you are dead last you want to improve.   
 If you're playing well, there's -- the thing about this game, you can't ever perfect it. I just can't ever get on top of it. And Katie and I were discussing today, I hit a lot of really good shots today, and had it been not for a lie or two here and there, the first two fairways hit right down the middle, I was in a divot both times. So you think without that, might be a able to attack the pins. And maybe tomorrow is a different story.  
  
  Q. The story of Tim Jackson, an amateur coming out here, almost like he's playing out of his mind. He doesn't know he's not supposed to be in that situation.   
 HALE IRWIN: I think every golfer that plays here, over 50-plus, we kind of forget what we're suppose to do [laughter].   
 That's great play. For the first two days at least he's put it together very, very nicely. He is in a precarious position. He's got some really good players right behind him, and he has just one little slip the next day or two, and he is going to see those players slip on by him.   
 But I played with an amateur today, Bryan Norton, played extremely well. Other than one shot, he played very, very well.   
 Amateurs are -- they're not just amateurs, they're good players, and we're seeing that in today's game.  
  
  Q. A lot of people wonder what you guys talk about when you are out on the course. What do you think Joey is telling Timmy right now?  
HALE IRWIN: Sindelar?  
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 HALE IRWIN: If he could play with one guy that will probably keep you at ease as anybody it's Joey. He is just a really nice guy. I'm sure Joey is pulling nearly as hard for him as he is for himself.   
 But, I think for the most part the players get in their own little world. Yes, there's some conversation going back and forth, and, yes, there's some camaraderie, but, at the same time, each has their own task and their own mission ahead of them. And Joey wants to win just as badly as anybody else.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT