U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2009
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 HALE IRWIN: A little better, 67.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 HALE IRWIN: Quite a bit, but, if someone would have told me Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday morning that I was going to shoot what I shot yesterday I would have -- I was hitting the ball well. It was great. Somehow yesterday it fell apart. I'm trying to keep it simple, and that's what I tried to be today.   
 Even though it was a difficult day striking the ball, yesterday I was still trying to play the good shots and getting myself in trouble, today I just said, "Hey, if you're going to hit these things, play 'em."   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 HALE IRWIN: Yeah, obviously 67 around here, I'm delighted with it, any way I can get it, but disappointed with yesterday.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 HALE IRWIN: A lot of separation, and I kept telling myself that I won this tournament in '98, opening with a 77.   
  
  Q. Didn't know that.   
 HALE IRWIN: It was a goal then, as it was today, just to make the cut, which I've done. Now, if I have two really low scores, and get some help with the weather and hole location -- it's a tough course. It doesn't yield a lot. If you don't hit the fairways and the greens it can get very difficult.   
  
  Q. Any big monster clubs?   
 HALE IRWIN: No, right now I'm, 5 feet, 6 feet is a monster, so if you want to talk about monsters, yeah, I made a couple today. The monster putts, I've been 3-putting, the round was remarkable. I was amazed that I made a 12-footer at 2 and the same distance at 7, and 8 was about 25 feet, and 9 was 35 feet. I haven't made putts back-to-back like that in a long, long time.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 HALE IRWIN: I missed a green to the right, (No microphone.) Going to hit a lot of greens. I hit a lot of greens, but they weren't all real close to the hole. It was an arduous day. I'm delighted to get it in and get it over with.   
  
  Q. We heard about the wind today.   
 HALE IRWIN: Well, it's a different direction, not one we've seen all week, so all the holes are playing different than we've seen 'em. That's the biggest story, I think, if the wind lays down, if it feels like it's doing that for the afternoon it will probably be a factor. This morning it was heavier and it was affecting the ball more than it did yesterday.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 HALE IRWIN: Oh, yeah, absolutely. You've seen it, that leaderboard is full of players that have experience. Jackson, we'll see what he's made of the next couple of days. Still two rounds to go and a lot of things can happen.   
  
  Q. Pete Dye, when you hear his name, what do you think about a legend?   
 HALE IRWIN: Is this a family-oriented show? (Laughter.) No, I love Pete, I think a lot of people will see -- players -- he's a good guy, and I've said this many times, I truly mean it, he's probably been one of the biggest forces in modern golf, at least in my time, in how you play the game.   
 Talk about technology, a lot of people say he was the for runner of technology because he put things out there that we were unaccustomed to. You have to adapt, hit the right shots to get it in the right spot.   
  
  Q. Is Pete one of those guys you have a great liking for but when you come off the course maybe not so much?   
 HALE IRWIN: I think you could say that about your family members, too. Once the players have a chance to cool down a little bit from what can be an upsetting day or it could be a good day, you need that downtime. He's a competitor, and anybody who steps on to the field of battle with him, they're not automatically the enemy but they have to be considered. FastScript by ASAP Sports  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT