CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 23, 2004
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
It wasn't a lot of fun?
HALE IRWIN:  If I had to order a day I didn't want to see, this was absolutely it.  I struggled with my neck and my back all day.  It's been a very difficult day.  The course is playing extremely long.  Like everybody, we all struggled, but I didn't play particularly good golf.  Once again, I handled it as best I could and that's about the only thing I could do.  There was very little aggressive play on my part today, I didn't putt well today at all.  I didn't really do anything well, but neither did anybody else.  I wish I was happy with where I am, but I'd like to see some heat and better weather.
Q.  I noticed on the first hole you kind of hit your tee ball, it just ‑‑
HALE IRWIN:  I've got something in my system.  The culprit in Raleigh when I had to withdraw.  It's a little worrisome.  I don't know what it will be tomorrow.  It's scary enough today.  It's kind of disappointing right now.  I'm wondering what it's going to be like tomorrow morning.
Q.  What are you going to do right now?
HALE IRWIN:  Go down to therapy, and best I can, have them help me work it out and give me some recommendations for tonight, what to do or not do and then get out early tomorrow and see what we can do.

When I had to withdraw from Raleigh it was overnight, out of the clear blue.  I don't know, right now it's a big mystery.
Q.  Can you make a comment about competing for this championship and the Charles Schwab Cup, the last round of the season
HALE IRWIN:  I wish I could get more energy into it. Right now I'm trying to get myself where I can play and be a factor.  Today was an opportunity to move forward and I didn't do it.  Then again, I'm not exactly in a position with my swing, which is allowing me to do it.  I'm excited to have a chance, certainly, but discouraged that I'm not physically up to maybe the challenge.  We'll just have to wait and see what tomorrow brings.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT