SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2014
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
HALE IRWIN:   To get there and to be able to hold it, these holes are not easy.   I was thinking about it yesterday, it wasn't an over powering course, it's not every day I can do that or I'd be in the hunt.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel a little better physically today?  
HALE IRWIN:   A little bit.   I got some work done, I got some patches on, I feel like a patch work puzzle.   And then I got this little thing that kept me warmer, so, although it was still cold out there.   The breeze is cold.   
   
 Q.   What are your overall thoughts heading into the weekend?  
HALE IRWIN:   Well, hopefully continue a little bit of momentum that I was, that I had going today, until bogeys at 15 and 17.   
I'm making sort of the same silly mistakes over and over and over and over and I just can't seem to get out of that rut.   
But as I say that, each day I go out there and say I'm not going to do that again, and I do.   So there's something going on up here.   So that's what I really need to improve upon more than anything else.   I'm obviously not preparing myself to play properly the way I used to.   And I don't expect to do a lot of things the way I used to, but when you have a wedge shot that's 104 yards and you hit it a hundred yards every time, you would think after awhile you would learn to hit it 108 yards, you know, over do it.   But I continue to not do that.   
And it's that kind of stuff that's very, very frustrating.   Of all the things that I'm not doing well, it's the frustration level that's really got me going the wrong direction.   
   
 Q.   Especially with the nice weather, what are your overall thoughts on the course conditions so far and then preparing for this weekend?  
HALE IRWIN:   Well, the course is long.   Unless you're Kenny Perry or Steve Pate or something that and can really pop it out there, it's long.   I'm not hitting it that well, so it's a bruiser for me.   Some of those hole locations, particularly on the back nine today, were just‑‑ I need to talk to Kerry Haigh about those.   Some of those were just, like 12 and 13 were just unbelievable.   
But where are you going to put them on these greens?   There's nothing but lumps and bumps and egg shells and you know, humpty dumpty's out there.   And that's part of the problem, when you think you hit good shots, you just, you never know where it's going to end up.   
   
 Q.   They seem to have kept the speed reasonable, they're not overly fast.   
HALE IRWIN:   Well, if they had the speed, then they would be out of control, but I think that when you have a putt that you think, I got to make it, I think all of us are experiencing a little bit of that, the drag that's in some of putts, because you're expecting them to be little faster.   
But at the end of the day there's a little growth on them, the greens at the last were a little bit slower.  
   
 Q.   They don't say what the Stimp is, but what do you think they're rolling?  
HALE IRWIN:   If they rolled at 10 I would be shocked.   But then again, if you're going up some of these, if you're going up the egg, it's probably an eight or a nine.   On the other side of the egg it might be a 10 or 11.   So you just kind of got to wash it out.   
   
 Q.   Just having played it two years ago, does that help a little bit?  
HALE IRWIN:   Yeah, I don't remember them from last time.   The only green that's sort of different is obviously 17 and I think many of the players are saying that that's probably the best green out there.   
(Laughter.)   Because it's a little flatter and it doesn't have quite the contours in it.   
But there's some ‑‑ there's some really difficult putts, because you literally are, in fact Gordon and I were on a similar line and I hit mine just a little bit this way and it went left and he hit his almost on the same line and his went right.   
So you kind of are stuck.   You're made to look a little silly sometimes, but shoot, that's the game, isn't it?   We make ourselves look silly.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT