UBS WARBURG CUP
November 18, 2001
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Hale, some comments on the match today?
 
HALE IRWIN:  Well, I think the best thing about this match is the team spirit of competition and sportsmanship.  You know, like in a lot of other sports that we see at times we forget that sportsmanship is part of the game.  We remember here during the golf anyway.  But probably what I will remember is that Bernhard and I played the 17th hole and I went first and it was best shot I could possibly hit.  And he hit one better.  He hit it inside of me.  And I would have bet a kings ransom that wouldn't happen.  And it happened.  You just have to figure out, you know, we're coming again to the last hole, and I missed.  And he is a lot younger than I am, you know.  And I kept reminding him of that all day, that he has to be a little more respectful of his elders.  He broke into German there, he didn't speak English, so I don't know if he understood me. 
 

Q.  Was it a similar situation to like '91?
 
HALE IRWIN:  I think it's always there.  I don't think Bernhard nor I will ever be able to forget '91.  I'll remember the good parts.  And, you know, what happened there was just, it was overwhelming.  If there's anybody in the game of golf that could handle it, I think he did it very, very well.  And my hat's off  to him.  But I think, what I think we're seeing here is an elevation back on the podium of the keen competition, with the element of sportsmanship and gentlemanly play which I think is lacking in the game a little bit over the last years.  And if we can introduce that to some of our younger fellows then I think we're doing a good job of it. 
 

Q.  What did you hit into 18 and how long was the putt?
 
HALE IRWIN:  I hit a 4-iron and I had a putt probably from some 12 feet or so.  It was a good putt.  I hit it well.  It seemed like all of the right-to-left putts today I was pulling.  And that's the way it goes.  I felt like I played very well.  I kept the ball in play all day. Didn't have a real problem with keeping it in play.  Just had a problem getting the darn thing in the hole. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT