SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2013
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What can you say about those last two holes? 
HALE IRWIN:   You promised me you weren't going to ask about those last two holes. 
Well the stoppage ‑‑ I wasn't playing all that well today, but I had a good score going.   And once we stopped, I lost all momentum.   And I was 2‑under and played the last four holes 4‑over par.   So it doesn't bode well for an ending score. 
And I'm just not playing that well.   And you play under the conditions that we're seeing here at Bellerive and it just exposes your weaknesses.   And I'm exposed certainly on that back nine, it's played very difficult for me this week.

Q.   How disruptive is a long wait like that and a rain delay like that?
HALE IRWIN:   Well, you have to handle that.   It's disruptive for everyone.   Maybe for those who aren't playing too well it's a good disruption.   For those that might have something going, it's a difficult disruption.   But it's a disruption all the same for everyone.   For the fans especially.   They have to find shelter and they don't always get the luxury of going to the clubhouse.

Q.   And just how soggy were the conditions when you came back out?
HALE IRWIN:   It wasn't that bad.   It was a little bit wet.   But it's the danger, the lightning that really was the problem.   Trying to get people safely tucked away before the storm hit.   But it wasn't that bad. 

Q.   Now just kind of looking ahead to tomorrow, just what's your mindset?
HALE IRWIN:   I don't know.   I'm just hitting the ball so poorly.   I was talking to my son, Steve, just everything I'm trying seems to get the reverse result. 
So I've got a lot of things I need to think about and maybe the simple thing is don't think about any of them and just try to go play golf tomorrow. 

Q.   Maybe one last entertaining round for the home fans?
HALE IRWIN:   Well, I would like to entertain myself first.   We'll see how that goes.   Right now, it hasn't been very entertaining.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT