U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2000
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HALE IRWIN: Well, it is. I think we had the similar conditions as to the first round --
ideal weather. The big difference I can see is that the -- some of the hole locations
today were a little bit on the dicey side; whereas, I don't think they were so bad on
Thursday. But a very similar day -- beautiful weather, beautiful playing conditions. The
soft conditions that have been caused by Thursday's rain are still out there. And you give
these guys good fairways, good greens, and soft conditions, you are going to see
something. I don't know what the weather forecast is tomorrow, but if a little breeze came
up, it would sure make it interesting. It is already interesting. I don't want to say it
is not. But it would put a little bit more teeth in the golf course, because the scoring
round now is, I think, extremely low for this golf course and this Championship.

Q. Does that take anything away from the Championship when the scores are that low?

HALE IRWIN: Oh, no. I just think it tells what a superb, conditioned golf course we are
playing. Fairways are simply wonderful, and the greens are -- if we hadn't had the rain,
then I think you'd see much higher scoring. It's just that they are so receptive to shots,
you are seeing balls spin back. You can actually stand in the fairway, fly the ball up
there. I think if they were firm, we would have our hands full.

Q. How do you approach a matchup between the top two players on the SENIOR TOUR of the
last, arguably the last three, four years, which is -- tomorrow will be, do you look at it
that way?

HALE IRWIN: Not really. I think Bruce is going to go out and play his usual great game.
He has been the guy that has been on top and doing the thing that we all had hoped to do.
The difference may be that I have been in that position before, and this is the first time
Bruce has. I am sure he is going to be reminded many times: How do you feel? What are you
going to do tonight? And those are questions you never know until you have been there. To
him, this is sort of unknown territory. I am delighted to be only two back, rather than
what could have been three or four. So I think I am in a great position. I don't have the
weight of the world, so to speak, on my shoulders like he does. Although I would trade him
positions. (laughter).

Q. As you just said, you have been there before. What is it like to go into the final
round of a major championship to be sleeping on a two-stroke lead?

HALE IRWIN: Well, in his case, he may be hanging like wallpaper.

Q. What kind of wallpaper?

HALE IRWIN: What I found for me is the adrenaline that you get when you play this kind
of a Championship, and when you have got the lead, for me, it doesn't go away. He may be
able to sit aside and have a great night's sleep, and I was never that. I sort of had to
keep -- let it go, keep it running. And the crash came to me after. I was not one of those
people that just says, "Oh, I don't look at the leaderboard; no, I had a good night's
sleep; and oh, yeah, I don't think about it." Far from it. I think I did think about
it, and I still think about it. But my goodness, that is the fun of it all. I want to
experience it all. I am sure he is in his way. He has got many well-wishers and many
people that are, again, they are going to say: "Hey, Bruce, we are pulling for
you." They are going to remind him time and time again. It is something you can't
avoid. And whether you handle it or not, it is going to be up to him.

Q. Could you talk about the atmosphere out there and the roars and the fact that you
made -- you birdied half of your holes at a U.S. Senior Open today?

HALE IRWIN: Well, it was -- the attendance was great. The people have been very, very
supportive. It is really great to see. The fun part, again, it is a Senior Championship.
But it is good to see so many young people out there. You have got the young bitty guys,
girls, and all the way up to -- the age differential is wonderful. And they are all
excited to see the golf, and they are very receptive. So that part of the environment is
terrific. The golf course has been wonderful. I don't think we could have asked for a
better golf course. It has been in superb condition. All and all, it has been a wonderful
week. The only thing I can say is that there has been phenomenal scoring. There really
has. Even in light of the rough -- it is not the easiest rough to play out of. Far from
it. It is difficult. Some of the hole locations are very difficult to get to. But you go
back to that rain we had Thursday evening, and that really softened things up.

Q. Hale, now Tom, two behind. Do you go at it aggressively? Do you react to what he is
doing? What is -- what kind of a game plan do you put together for a head-to-head duel?

HALE IRWIN: I am not going to bite on that. It is not head-to-head, because there is
something that Tom Kite has to say about it. Allen Doyle is not so far back. There is
still a number of guys that can win this tournament. I go out, and I am thinking -- I
don't think you will find any player that is in this chair -- I can't control what he does
nor -- I can only control my game. But I will try to play the kind of game I played today.
Getting back to my -- the thing that makes my game tick, I have not been doing very well.
A little session I had yesterday on the practice range, a little overnight thinking about
what I wanted to accomplish today -- finally got going, and that is what I will try to do.
That is the only -- only thing I can do to maybe influence Bruce -- it is just to continue
playing well. We will see how that -- I don't consider it necessarily head-to-head. If
that happens, it will come down to the last few holes. And that is just too far out.

Q. How much of a motivating factor was it seeing all the red numbers up between Tom and
also Bruce; and vice versa, them seeing you?

HALE IRWIN: I think it -- it certainly was instrumental, I think, in some very
aggressive play. When you see someone doing that, you say: "I got to take a chance or
two." And I don't know how the other guys were thinking, but I am out there making
quite a few birdies. I am really not catching up. But again, it's 18 holes. You got to
keep going. And what looked like -- I might not catch up much at all, here it is only two
shots now, and that can swing in one hole. So it is really not all that insurmountable.
But going back again to a question about the nine birdies, I am just reminded in 1967
around this area Shawnee-on-the-Delaware, or the NCAA 9 birdies, hole-in-one, four bogeys,
and four pars. So this was not all that different from that round. And it was in the same
third round.

Q. How important tomorrow do you think will be the opening nine holes? You played them
real well today. Bruce has played them the last two of the last three days. What is going
on with the score on the front nine?

HALE IRWIN: I think the front nine doesn't have the 11th green; doesn't have the 15th
and 16th greens. You have greens that are difficult to putt, but not -- you have three
extremely difficult greens over here, and you have to be very cognizant of where you leave
the ball. Today on the 11th hole, I hit what I thought was a very, very good tee shot. I
am 20 feet under the hole, putting over the ridge, and ended up 3-putting. So could I play
that hole better? No. But you don't have any of those holes on the front nine. So therein
I think, lies the big difference, is that you got three greens of the nine, on the back
nine, which are -- you have to be extremely careful. You take par every time and walk over
to the next tee. That, I think, is the biggest difference.

Q. On the first tee today, I was watching you -- you take your driver out, you swing a
little bit right-handed, you swing a little bit left-handed, then you kind of let out this
little groan. Was that just a groan for old time's sake? Is the back okay?

HALE IRWIN: It is tight. But it is warmer. It feels much better. Plus, I was with Bruce
last night hanging some wallpaper. I got a little tight. (laughter).

Q. Did the course dry out much today, and can it dry out a significant amount by
tomorrow afternoon?

HALE IRWIN: Well, as I said yesterday, I think we just had so much rain Thursday that I
can't see where it is going to dry out that much. It is not going to dry out to what we
would hope Open conditions would be. Some, possibly. But I just can't see it. Still,
fixing the pitch marks on the greens is still very, very soft. The balls are still holding
quite nicely, so I don't know what they can do overnight, short of coming in with a blow
torch and using some of the hole locations that might be extremely iffy. But it is still
pretty soft. No standing water, I don't want to say that, but it is just soft.

Q. After the bogey on the second hole, I saw you walk over to the third tee, walk off
to the side, and kind of reflect. Then you went off on your birdie run. I was wondering:
Any thoughts going through your mind at that time?

HALE IRWIN: Well, I was thinking: Too mechanical. I just said: Throw the book of
mechanics away, get back to some instinctive golf. Whatever happens is going to happen.
But I am going to have to think about scoring instead of mechanics. You work on the
mechanics on the practice tee, hopefully they will ingrain themselves by the time they get
to the golf course, not try to carry those to the golf course. And it never works. But I
just kind of -- I played the first two holes very mechanically, very poorly. And just
said: I am going to turn it loose. I am going to think about where the ball needs to go
and not necessarily how to get it there. If it gets there through hook or slice or top --
just get it there. And it kind of takes away the burden of putting one foot in front of
the other. You can just sort of go play. Fortunately, I hit some good shots thereafter and
built up a little steam, a little confidence, and it made a big difference.

Q. Talk about 13. You hit the ball in there stiff, and then Aoki putts it in the hole.
Doing a little dance there with him?

HALE IRWIN: His -- my shot was lucky. His shot may have been good, but I was aiming to
the middle of the green and pulled it. But that sort of -- I say it is lucky in one
breath, and it is sort of not in another. I figure, aim at the middle of the green and try
to hook it if you can. I pulled it. But essentially it was a hook. It ended up being in
the same spot that I had hoped, but he hit a fantastic shot. I think I got an assist. I
don't know it kissed off my ball, but I should get an assist off that. He hit a great
shot. It is not too often you birdie that hole, period. Then you lose the honor. That is a
real hole. That is one, I think, one of the harder holes out here.

Q. Did you try to tee it up first on the next --

HALE IRWIN: No. No. I won't take away the honor of a two. That is remarkable stuff.

Q. Do you mind going over your card real quick.

HALE IRWIN: Bogey at the 2nd. Hitting it in the right rough. From there, I had a lie
that I hit -- just chopped a 4-wood out over the back edge of the green. Hit a poor pitch;
missed a 10-foot par-putt. I birdied 3, hitting an 8-iron to within six feet. Birdied 4,
hitting a 6-iron to within five feet. Birdied 5, hitting a 7-iron to within seven feet.
Birdied 6, a sand wedge from the left rough to within four feet. Birdied 8, hitting an
8-iron to within six feet. Birdied 9, hitting a 5-iron, and made about a 15-foot putt. As
I mentioned, I 3-putted 11 from about 25 feet short, under the hole. I birdied 12 from
about three feet. Birdied 13 from about a foot and a half. 16, I hit an 8-iron to within
five feet; made that. I 3-putted 17, hitting a 6-iron out to the right, and putting it
well past. That was it. Thank you, folks.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT