SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Hale Irwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How did your round go today?
HALE IRWIN:   Well I think I played at least as well as yesterday, but we see a three shot differential.   I said yesterday that I managed what I had, I didn't manage it quite as well today.   I had a few more birdie opportunities yesterday than today.   The course played long.   It was, even though we had good weather it was still, at least this morning, it played quite long and those finishing holes are big boy holes.   I made a couple mistakes coming down the stretch ‑‑ or I shouldn't say the stretch, but the back nine, you just can't do it and be a contender.

Q.   Just a hair away from birdie on 18.   That looked good. 
HALE IRWIN:   It did.   I had hoped that ‑‑ it was a long hole.   When you're back there at 220 yards and trying to hit a little plateau up there, you you're kind of hoping just to give me a four and let me go to the house.   And a bonus three would have been big. 
But I'm not at all unhappy.   I haven't played all that well over the last month or two and things are kind of coming together, I'm still hitting some way ward shots, but again, like I said yesterday, I seem to be managing those okay.

Q.   How about the galleries for you and the support for you?
HALE IRWIN:   Well, it's good.   The problem yesterday, we had a lot of rain and it was ‑‑ not a lot of rain, but it was not the kind of day that anybody would want to go out there and follow.   And today we got good crowds.   They're very supportive and I appreciate that a lot.

Q.   How do you estimate your chances now?
HALE IRWIN:   I got to play quite well over the weekend.   I got to shoot 3‑ or 4‑under just about every day, I think, depending upon how the course plays.   If we have this kind of weather that depending upon the hole locations, it's a big golf course and there's some holes out there, particularly the fifth hole is quite long, sixth, the long par‑3 is playing very difficult.   10, the converted five par to a four is really tough.   18's playing very long.   15, 16 are playing long.   So if you can get lucky and get in there and post a 3‑ or 4‑under each day, kind of look at it and see what happens. 
I'm making some bad swings and I'll go out on the practice tee and I'll fix it, and then when I get out on the golf course I'm not taking my range game to the golf course right now.   And years ago I can remember I didn't have a range game, it was terrible, I would go to the golf course and it was quite good. 
So I think just I'm not playing with the confidence that I think I need to.   I'm not really taking what I'm, what's given to me and using it effectively.   I'm kind of going against some of my instincts and I got to change that or either that or just go on a long vacation. 

Q.   You're obviously one of the older guys out here, talk about your competitiveness and how much has that played into the fact that you are still out here demanding a lot out of yourself. 
HALE IRWIN:   Well, I think if you demand any less of what you feel capable of doing, then you're cheating yourself and you might as well just go home. 
I think that I was born competitive.   I'm sorry if it offends anybody, I just, I was born with that DNA.   And my efforts to play as well as I can and a step above, that's always been there.   My goals have always been to reach for the brass ring, but it just has to be a long reach.   And that keeps me trying.   And if you achieve those goals, then you feel very good about things. 
And what I think I have done, I've probably got that brass ring a little too far out there right now.   I need to move it in, be more satisfied with some steady play, rather than spectacular play.   I think that I need to be more concerned about steady play. 
And over the next couple days, hit more fairways, which I did today, I drove the ball poorly yesterday, but I hit more fairways today, but I'm still not hitting very good irons.   So I need to just forget where the flag is and try to put it in some bulls‑eye in the fat part of the green away from the flag to give myself some chances, then I think I would have to be satisfied with that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT