NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
March 5, 2019
Zach Vandivier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Zach Vandivier was selected by Grizz Gaming with the No. 7 overall pick in the 2019 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is Vandi.   
 Q.  Vandi, that's your gamer tag?  
ZACH VANDIVIER: Yes, sir.   
 Q.  I know it's obvious, but how did you get the tag?  
ZACH VANDIVIER: I played basketball my whole life.  In high school, we had three Zachs on the team.  All of us got nicknames, and they just said Vandi because of Vanderbilt.   
 Q.  How did you get into playing 2K?  
ZACH VANDIVIER: When I first started playing basketball, I really enjoyed it.  There are video games out there that you can play, too, for basketball.  I really got into NBA Live and then NBA 2K, but NBA 2K was just really superior.  With the player's mic, through your creations and all that, you can have five people on the same team, play with your friends.  So I thought it was really cool.  Then I got really competitive in 2K18 and just went on from there.   
 Q.  2K18 was when you got really competitive?  
ZACH VANDIVIER: Yes.   
 Q.  How did that evolve?  How did you get more competitive?  
ZACH VANDIVIER: I did streaming.  I did Twitch.  I was on YouTube.  I had like 14K on YouTube, 13K on Twitch.  I'm a Twitch partner as well.  Just going from there.  I watched pro-am a lot, so I'm like, OK, I want to try this, get into the scene.  I just went into pro-am.  I started playing more competitively with a lot of my friends, and we just took off from there.   
 Q.  What was it like last year to watch these guys get drafted and now you're eligible at age 19 and able to experience this?  
ZACH VANDIVIER: Yeah, it was fun.  I loved watching the draft.  I knew I wanted to be there.  Just watching the whole setup, I thought that was really cool.  It's like, you're actually a professional now.   
I really just wanted to be a part of that.  Going into this year, I went really hard in the Combine, and fortunately it paid off for me.   
 Q.  What was the Combine experience like?  How intense was it?  
ZACH VANDIVIER: It was fun for me.  I played the Combine last year, too.  I was 18 last year, so the whole year was kind of like, OK, you've got to be 18 years old.  It was kind of last second when they said you've got to be graduated from high school.  I was still in high school, so unfortunately I didn't make it.  Knowing what the Combine was like last year, I just wanted to go all out this year.  It was awesome.  I played really well.  I think I had like top-three point guard statistics.   
 Q.  What excites you about the Grizz Gaming roster?  
ZACH VANDIVIER: We've got Authentic and Phenom, and we've got a good group of guys here.  Last year seemed like they needed that point guard, and I think going into this year, they found that point guard.  I think I'm that missing piece for them.  We're going to draft the rest of the team here today as well, so I can't wait to meet them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT