AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 12, 1998
David Burba
Mark Wiley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Mark, can you talk about the job that Dave has done out of the bullpen?

MARK WILEY: Going into the playoffs I know it is a very difficult decision to make for
a manager and with a guy like Dave, Dave is a great competitor. He did a fantastic job for
us starting this year. I think that narrowed down to the point where we know Dave has a
certain kind of durability about throwing often and the fact that he has a lot of
experience in the bullpen and I don't think -- I think it is proven that it was a good
decision with Dave has gone in and done a great job for us every time he has been asked
on. We have asked him in to come and eat some big innings for us to keep us in the
ballgame, keep our bullpen aligned properly and he did a great job of doing that. And
continues to.

Q. Mark, what is it that Charles Nagy has been doing differently to have the success
here -- that sparked his success in the second half and in the postseason?

MARK WILEY: Charlie, you know, I have been around Charlie for a long time even from
when he first came up. And he is no different than a lot of pitchers. You get hot at
certain times and you get out of rhythm and you have problems at certain times and Charlie
is no different than anybody else. But Charlie does -- he has always been one of those
pitchers that locks in for great periods of time when he does lock in. He has a great
sense of his rhythm, and when he gets it, he can pitch quality game after quality game.
Over the years, there has always been a lot said about Charlie when he gets in one of
those streaks, where he maybe doesn't get a win for a month or something, but if you
always look when the smoke clears, Charlie is one of the leading winners in baseball every
year. People have a tendency to overlook that. I think he is probably one of the most
underrated pitchers in the 90s. He is one of the winningest pitchers in the '90s in all of
baseball. You never hear him spoken about like some other guys that are in the same level.
He made some adjustment in his delivery. Like I said, when he locks in, he is a real hard
worker, great conditioned athlete and I think that is why he has been able to maintain it
for long periods of time when he does get locked in.

Q. What is different about his mindset? Is the guy passed over to start Game 7 of last
year, Mike said he didn't like his body language that is why he did it. He didn't have a
lot of confidence. Now he is sitting here pitching, is probably the best guy you want on
the mound --

MARK WILEY: I didn't hear that. I knew that in our discussions and when the decision
was made last year as far as that was concerned it was more that, you know, we felt
Charlie had gotten tired. You have to understand last year and I have heard a lot of other
ballclubs they speak of the injuries they had. I don't know of anybody that had as many
starting pitchers. We had to get to the World Series. We got there because Charlie never
missed a start. Charlie was pushed to the fifth day every time. There were times when you
have a chance off day to push all your starters to six days, he was always pushed up to go
five on five days because the other kids just weren't as quality. They were Minor League
kids coming up and people that were spot starters. He was pushed up and never missed a
start. That is why we got there. At the tail end after that great game he threw in
Baltimore when we clinched it one to nothing and got into the World Series we felt like he
had just gotten tired. At that time Jaret was strong, and he was given the start. That
doesn't diminish anything Charlie has ever done for this club or ever will do or the fact
that Charlie is our most dependable guy for years and right now he is still as good as
anybody in baseball and you know, would be considered like our No.1 guy right now.

Q. You said he was the most underrated one all in the Major Leagues. I wonder if you
could explain why you think that is? And secondly, do you think maybe even you guys
underrated him and didn't pit him against Pedro Martinez and David Wells in the
postseason?

MARK WILEY: David Cone is a pretty good pitcher. He has been pitted against a lot of
great pitchers throughout his career. It is all just how people align. We would have had
to rearrange our rotation to have that happen and if you remember we were trying to get --
we were trying to a good enough record to be better than Texas so we could have the home
team advantage against Boston in the first round and we kind of ran our pitchers and
strung them right out. It wasn't our plan, but we hadn't won some ball games, so we kind
of strung our starting pitchers out. That is how it kind of fell where the rotation went.
As far as -- Mike makes the decisions on everything we do. He is the manager. I think that
was one of the primary concerns that we started out in the rotation that we did.

Q. Dave, talk about sitting in the bullpen and things that fans maybe say to you guys
and are you prepared based on what happened -- how bad does it get out there?

DAVE BURBA: Well, basically the things they say to us I really can't repeat. That is
just part of the game. It happens whereever you go any city. I don't condone people saying
things about peoples mothers and things like that, but there is some pretty rough stuff
said out in the bullpen out here in Yankee Stadium. That is just part of the game. You
have to remember what you are focusing on, and that is to get ready to go into the game
and throw strikes and get hitters out. And if you concentrate on what the people are
saying to you, then you tend to get out of your game. So when you are warming up,
naturally you can hear them, they are yelling, they are screaming at you, calling you
names, saying things to you, but you tend to laugh at half of it and you tend to drown it
out. Because like I said, you are really focusing on what you have to do to get ready for
the game. Just so happens that every once in a while you can't help but hear some things.
Really, I have never really heard anybody say anything about my mother or anybody else's
mother when they are warming up, and I -- I can't say that I would appreciate it, I am
sure that Dave didn't appreciate it. I am sorry that it happened to David, but things
happen to us too and that is just part of the game. Life goes on. Really I think you have
to focus on what you are doing and drown out what people are saying and screaming at you
when you are getting ready to go into the game.

Q. How difficult it is for a pitcher to face the same team twice within a week?

MARK WILEY: It is really the individual. You know, some people feel right comfortable
if you have had a good outing against somebody. You feel that you are able to see things
that the hitters are doing, you are able to command the strike zone, you can take
advantage of their weaknesses, you feel confidence going into it. If you struggled, it
either makes you bear down more and you really focus more or those guys -- I am sure the
negative thoughts come into their minds. At this level of the game from pitching coaches's
standpoint you know you want people to put anything that they did in the past behind them
and focus on what they got to do now. I would think it would obviously be much more of an
advantage if you did have a good outing or two against them in the last outing. That has
got to be an.

Q. It is possible that you would get a World Series start if the team makes it. Is that
an overriding concern of yours, motivating factor?

DAVE BURBA: Well, it is possible because I am sure that they want my bat in the lineup
(Laughter.). Seriously, Mike passed me in the hallway the other day, he said it was a
possibility, but it wasn't etched in stone, and you know, right now I am just trying to
focus on tomorrow and the next day hopefully, but I guess like I told Mike, you know, we
will cross that bridge when we get there and you just let me know what you want. If you
want me to be in the bullpen, I am fine with that. If you want me to start a game, I will
be prepared. That is basically where we stand right now.

Q. Given the regular season, 15 wins and the way you pitched earlier in the playoffs,
do you think you had a chance to get the call to start last night's game or disappointed
that you didn't?

DAVE BURBA: Well, first question, yes, I thought that I did have a good chance at
getting the start one of the two games over the weekend, but when I didn't, no, I wasn't
disappointed. Like David Justice said, I was raised under pretty much Dusty Baker. And
what he taught me was: I will make the decisions and you live with it, and if they are
wrong decisions, then I will answer the questions. If you do what I ask you, we are going
to win, and that is just the way I feel about it. Mike asked me to go to the bullpen, so,
apparently he felt that that was best suited for the team, and that was the best way I
could help the team win so, that is where I went. And if Mike does ask me to start, if we
happen to get to the World Series, then I will be more than happy to take the ball in.

Q. If Alomar is not ready tomorrow and Diaz is your starting catcher, would Charlie
call pitches he wants from the bench or Diaz?

MARK WILEY: I could say something here. The network might call the pitches (Laughter.)
You know, Diaz does -- I mean, he knows how to call a game. What we did was we were given
suggestions to help him if he got in situations where he wasn't sure what he wanted to do.
Obviously, we know the hitters a little better than he does. Charlie works real well with
Einar. He pitched, he has pitched for him -- pitched with him late in the season. Einar
has called all our starting pitchers. He is familiar with them now. He is a terrific
defensive guy, tremendous arm. And high energy guy. If you have seen him play in the
playoff games and you saw him yesterday, you could see what he can bring to the game. It
will be a normal game. Diaz will be calling pitches. If he needs help, we will help him
when we can.

Q. Dave, you have gotten to know Charlie over this year. I mean he is pretty much a
low-key guy. He said in here before that he hopes to have fun tomorrow but he definitely
knows that it is a must-win game. He has that in his mind. Is he the kind of pitcher, from
what you know, that you would want out there in a do-or-die situation?

DAVE BURBA: Well, I would go to battle with Chuck in any situation in any game. I have
seen him pitch some very outstanding games and lately he is throwing the ball so -- you
know, obviously he is throwing the ball great. So in my book, he would be the go-to guy
and I have all the confidence in the world in him. I think he is a great pitcher. I think
he is going to go out and throw a great game tomorrow.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT