PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 26, 2017
Dante Pettis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So can you tell me a little bit about your experience here with -- what time did you guys get in yesterday?  
DANTE PETTIS: Got in yesterday, like 3:00.   
 Q.  What's it been like for you so far to be here in Arizona at the Fiesta Bowl?  
DANTE PETTIS: Honestly we haven't been able to do, we weren't able to do that much last night.  But it was pretty warm when we got in.  So that was good.  It's always nice to be in a warm place instead of, like, 20 degrees right now.  And so that was good.  We went into the jacuzzi for a little bit.   
And we really just waited for the rest of the team to get here, because their flight got delayed coming from Seattle.  So we had to wait for that.  When they finally got here we went out and practiced for a little bit.   
We were hanging out in the team room or the hospitality room.  Got a bunch of PlayStations all over the place, it's pretty cool.   
 Q.  What are your feelings when you guys realized (indiscernible)?  
DANTE PETTIS: It was a lot of fun.  We were pretty excited.  Everybody was, like, okay, we didn't know where we were going to go.  We had a good feeling that we would be somewhere pretty good.   
But we didn't know exactly where it was.  So to find out we were in the Fiesta Bowl, that was definitely, like, very exciting.  Have heard a lot of good things about the bowl.  And, yeah, we're just looking forward to this week.   
 Q.  Is there anything that you are particularly nervous about or excited about going against this Penn State's defense?  
DANTE PETTIS: I think it's always exciting to go against another really good team, especially on defense.  If you're a true competitor I think you always you want to go against another top dog.  So it's definitely good to go against a team like Penn State.   
 Q.  What kind of reputation do they have that maybe you're excited about?  
DANTE PETTIS: They play hard.  They get a lot of penetration up front and they always slide around to the ball.  They're pretty physical.  So I think that's going to be a good matchup for us.  And just excited to see how it goes.   
 Q.  What do you think the team morale is going up against Penn State?  
DANTE PETTIS: Pretty good.  Everybody is excited about this matchup.  As soon as we found out, everybody started watching film, and I think we're ready for this week.  And we've got a few more practices to go.  And, like I said, everybody is just excited.   
 Q.  Anything that you've done in particular to prepare?  
DANTE PETTIS: I mean, just watch some film.  Do a little bit more than I have been.  Obviously we've had a long break.  And so you really get in the film room a lot more and watch all of their games and all that stuff.   
 Q.  Anything else you want to share with us about what your experience has been so far, maybe in Arizona or --  
DANTE PETTIS: It got a lot colder last night than I thought it was going to be.  I wasn't ready for that.   
Because when we got in yesterday, it was like 70 degrees or something.  And last night it felt like it was 30.  But we're still looking forward to this week.  We're going to the Suns' game tonight.  So that will be fun.   
 Q.  Have you been to Phoenix before?  
DANTE PETTIS: Yeah.  We've played my freshman year we played out here in the Cactus Bowl.  So I went there.   
 Q.  The hair?  
DANTE PETTIS: I just wanted to do something different.  I had long hair for like two years.  It was like I'm going to switch it up.  So at the beginning of the year it was, like, around end of season I'm going to cut it off, get a Mohawk and then dye it, put some purple in it.  So I stuck to the plan and that's what happened.   
 Q.  Just in terms of your recollections of that Cactus Bowl, what are the biggest things that come to mind when you think about this area?  
DANTE PETTIS: Man, I feel like that was so long ago.  I remember back then it was, we were staying at this hotel and honestly one of the things I remember most is we were all playing in the pool they had there.  They had this like volleyball, like water volleyball court set up, and everybody was hanging out playing in there.  They had some slides.  That was pretty cool.  And so I remember that was a lot of a lot of fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT