NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 16, 2017
Brian Dumoulin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brian, a lot of kind of tension facing the defense since (inaudible) went down yesterday.  What are some of the challenges (inaudible)?  
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Yeah, we knew it was -- when we were going into the playoffs that we knew we were going to need a lot of defense and a lot of forwards.  I think that's why Jim and our staff did a good job of acquiring "D."   
So far, I mean, it's been good.   
I mean, Rudy stepped in pretty well when he had to, and now we'll have Streiter, if that's the case, if he has to step in and play then so be it.  We're confident with the group we have, and we know we can execute and execute the game plan well and still play as hard as we can.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  But he's a smart guy (inaudible), what does he bring to the table?  
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Yeah, he's the type of guy.  I can tell on that first power play unit.  I mean, it's good to have a guy like that.  Obviously, he would like to play a lot more than he is now, but we're going to need him.  Regardless if Schultz is in or not, he's an important guy for us.  I have confidence in him.  I've been watching him play for a long time, and even the short time we've had him on our team, he's been a positive impact.  So I expect nothing but great things from him.   
 Q.  It seems like (inaudible) and your guys are as well, right?  (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Yeah, it's challenging.  Any time you have adversity like that, it's easy to fold.  I mean, you can kind of feel bad for yourselves and be like, oh, Tanger's out, Daley's out, now possibly Schultz.  I feel bad.  I mean, we kind of rallied around it, and our system, everyone knows the details.  Everyone knows what we're doing out there.  So I think that's the good thing that we have.   
And dialogue with the coaches that you always know where you are and you always know what to do when you're out there.   
 Q.  With the changing style going from Columbus to Washington and now to Ottawa, how has the coaching staff been able to help you guys adjust?  
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Yeah, it's been different.  We played Ottawa.  I think we played them three times in the regular season.  It seems like every series is a new challenge.  Columbus, they try to outhit us and get in the fore-check.  Capitals have a lot of skill.   
And this team, this team's got to be patient.  They're going to wait there and feed off our mistakes.  It's just kind of learning.  The more games that we play and the more games we play against them, we'll learn more about each other.  So I think things will evolve as the series moves on.   
 Q.  How important has the coaching staff been in that regard?  
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Yeah, really important.  You see -- you guys don't see, but all the film that they break down for us and everything that they show us.  It's not just one day.  I'd say it's a week's worth of film they break down in a couple of days.  I mean, they do a great job in that aspect and giving us all the information, and we just have to go out and execute it.   
 Q.  What atmosphere do you anticipate?  Does it get a little chippy there at the end of the game last night?  What do you anticipate?  
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Yeah, it's fun.  I mean, any time you get emotional at the end of games and stuff, sometimes it carries over, but no one wants to take a penalty to hurt their team.  No one wants to have a dumb play out there.  Obviously, there's going to be emotion in the building.   
It's going to be fun to play.  It's going to be the first time I've played a playoff game in the Canadian market.  So I'm expecting it to be a blast, and I'll try to relish it.   
 Q.  You talk about their patience.  Does it sort of force you guys to maybe match their patience and be just as patient as they are?  Does that take you guys out of a comfort zone at all, do you think?  
BRIAN DUMOULIN: I think so.  Obviously, we're the kind of team that likes to get north as quickly as you can, but sometimes it doesn't call for that.  So we've got to be patient.  I think, as long as we understand that as a group that that's how the game is going to be played, I think that can benefit us also.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) was running around.  Are you aware of where he's at when he's playing like that?  
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Yeah, he's a physical guy.  That's one of the elements he brings to the team.  Obviously (inaudible), and obviously it is what it is.  But we know that he's the type of guy that will take that extra shot and a physical guy.  So we have to be aware of him.   
 Q.  How are you feeling?  
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Good.  I feel good.  Obviously, some guys are a lot worse than I am.  Everyone's banged up right now.  I mean, just got to go out there and play as hard as you can.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) pressure on you no matter what, and there always is for the playoffs, but...  
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Yeah, every guy wants to play no matter what they have.  If they're not out there, it's going to be something that's forcing them not to be out there.  It's definitely not in their control.  They want to be out there as much as they can and contributing to this team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT