NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: SHARKS v PENGUINS
June 12, 2016
Brian Dumoulin
Ben Lovejoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Ben, I know you were around the periphery in '09 when the Penguins won, what is it like to be a main part of the team and have a chance to win the Stanley Cup?
BEN LOVEJOY: Way better. I played two games in November that season. I was happy to be there. We lost them both. I had no impact on the Cup. I had a great seat to watch that team do it. 
I would love to be part of one myself. 

Q. For either of you. It looked like in Game5 the Sharks were able to get through a higher percentage of their shots, not have them blocked. What adjustment did they make that allowed them to accomplish that? 
BRIAN DUMOULIN: I think they started the game shooting the puck, whether it's from the point or off the wings. They dropped pucks from that area on, and that's what happens. A couple of them went in. It's a different game when that happens. 
We know they're good out front, they're good with their sticks. I thought throughout the start of the series that we did a good job of blocking shots. But they're dangerous. Their D gets pucks through really well. It's an important factor.

Q. Brian, as the team deejay, do you have a special playlist cooked up? Can you share the story of Hall & Oates? 
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Can't share that with you now. Yeah, I play the same music pretty much. Come up with a playlist after you start winning. Guys start knowing the songs and the words. 
It's tough sometimes when you have a 38‑year‑old Matt Cullen and 22‑year‑old Olli Maatta to keep the music good. 

Q. If you look at your roster, Matt Cullen has a Cup, are you willing to be the old guy without a Cup on this roster, at age 32? 
BEN LOVEJOY: I will do anything I can to win it. I don't care how. That's it (laughter). 

Q. Ben or Brian, guys talked about they played a good 55 last minutes. The first five minutes, even coach said it was a little unsettled. How do you keep from coming out flat in this game? Playing at home, with everything going on there, did that have anything to do with being a little unsettled?
BRIAN DUMOULIN: I mean, a little bit. You can get caught up in the outside noise, especially in a game like that. 
I mean, they're a good team, too. They came out, pressured us hard. They had some good chances in the zone. They capitalized on them. I think they had five shots and scored on three of them. 
They had good‑quality shots and they scored. That changes the game. We had to come from behind for the first time in the series. I think we know the formula that works for this team. I think we have to just come out and execute that right from the get‑go. 

Q. What has worked on the PK? 
BEN LOVEJOY: I think the biggest part is staying out of the penalty box. They're lethal on that power play. They have so many guys that can beat you. We have to do our best to play an incredibly disciplined game. That's a game changer for them. 
We have a plan to try to kill them, but the less time we have to do that, the better. 

Q. Brian, have you had a chance to kind of reflect on how far you've come in the last year, thinking back to the playoff games you got into last year, a short run, now in the top pairing? 
BRIAN DUMOULIN: Not really, not yet. You're always thinking about it, kind of where you've come. You have to learn from the ups and downs of the season as you go on. 
Right now I'm just really focused on the moment, playing this game tonight. Throughout the season, the games have gotten more and more important. There really hasn't been time to really sit back and enjoy it until the season's done. 

Q. Ben, I think I may know the answer to this one, but a little bit was made earlier about the excitement of Pittsburgh for Game5. Do you think the fan base is going to be forgiving if you win it on the road? 
BEN LOVEJOY: I think they'll deal (laughter). 
I grew up a sports fan. Brian grew up a sports fan. I couldn't tell you where the Patriots have won their last four. Nobody cares. Everybody is about getting it done. We would have loved to do it in Game5. But the Sharks are a good team. They're trying, too. 
We need to come out and play our best hockey tonight if we have any chance. 
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, guys. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT