BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2011
Linda Lappe
Meagan Malcolm-Peck
Brittany Spears
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 PETER IRWIN: We're now joined by the Buffaloes from Colorado. Opening comment about today's game.
 COACH LAPPE: Well, you gotta give Kansas a lot of credit. I thought they came out and executed very, very well. They did what they needed to do to win that game. 
 We didn't play our best by any stretch of the imagination. 
 PETER IRWIN: Questions for our student-athletes first. 

 Q. Brittany, you guys came out really aggressive in the second half, cut it to 2 after that. Did you guys just not shoot the ball well or did they make an adjustment? What happened during their big run? 
 BRITTANY SPEARS: We wasn't making any shots. We couldn't make layups, missed 23 open layups, so it was mainly us not making shots. 

 Q. Meagan, what was the problem on offense? Like a struggle from the opening tip?
 MEAGAN MALCOLM-PECK: Yeah, I think we -- none of us were moving around and I think we kind of played individually and went back to not playing together as a team, and I think we needed to cut and screen bodies more because they were trailing screens. We needed to curl and pop and we just couldn't get it together. And like Spears said, the wide-open layups and we definitely didn't play as well as we could have.

 Q. Does Kansas do anything different from other teams to take away the 3-point shot?
 MEAGAN MALCOLM-PECK: I mean, they definitely pressure out on the 3-point line and as we've struggled with teams that pressure and I think we need to learn how to play against teams that pressure and learn what to do to work against that. But, yeah, they definitely pressure. 

 Q. Brittany, after you set the record, the career record and pulled your team within two points, they went on the big run. Did you guys think at that point you had gotten yourselves back in the game before that big run?
 BRITTANY SPEARS: Oh, yeah, we thought that we was back in the game because we were only down by two but then they went on a run and we all just panicked and went separate ways, I guess.

 Q. The record may be bittersweet, but you're now CU's career leading scorer. Does that feel good?
 BRITTANY SPEARS: I would have rather got the W and scored two points. That doesn't matter. I just wanted to win.

 Q. You guys have to wait a week to find out, but how badly would you guys like to play in the WINT? 
 MEAGAN MALCOLM-PECK: For sure we all want to keep playing for our seniors, and I don't think that was a good game to go out on especially with how much we love our seniors. So we definitely want to keep going.
 BRITTANY SPEARS: You don't want to go out losing by 25. So, yeah, we wanted to come out hopefully our season keeps going.
 PETER IRWIN: Thank you. Questions for Coach. 

 Q. Linda, as an alum, I know you know Lisa Van Goor and she's been at the top of that list for a long time. If you could, just talk about what Brittany has meant to the program, especially this season the way she's improved other aspects of her game, and even though I know she is probably disappointed now what this means to her to become the all-time leading scorer?
 COACH LAPPE: I think it's a huge accomplishment. That record has been standing for a very, very long time, since the beginning of our program. And for her to be able to come in and do what she's done in the last four years I think is pretty special. 
 She's had to do a lot for us this year in every different way. And she's taken on that responsibility. The good thing about Spears is that she's worked very, very hard, and so she can be proud of that record. And her teammates can be proud of it and they know and she knows and our staff knows that she's shot more shots than anybody that I think I've ever coached. She's in the gym more hours than anybody that I've ever seen.
 And she just loves the game. And she grew up loving the game. And so for her I know right now she doesn't -- it's not that big of a deal to her. She just doesn't say that. It really is. And I think she would rather have won and never have gotten that record. 
 But looking back, she's going to be very proud of that record and I'm proud to have coached her for a year. 

 Q. You guys were doing well behind the arc coming down the stretch, kind of turned things around. Do they do anything special or just having trouble getting your shots?
 COACH LAPPE: No, they do. They tag every single screen. They don't really get the helps out a whole lot because they were so keyed in on our shooters, and that's why we had so many layups. And that's why we got to the rim as much as we did, is because they were on us and they were on our shooters. 
 And they closed gaps very, very well. They're quick. They're athletic. So even when we do have a somewhat open shot, they close that gap fast. And so if our feet weren't ready to go and our hands weren't ready, then we weren't going to get that shot off or they were going to block it. 
 And so I felt like we had some really good looks to the basket especially in that period of time where we didn't score for seven minutes. We got offensive rebounds and put-backs or attempted put-backs and we did some really good things and stayed with it.
 We just could not get that ball to drop through that net.

 Q. This is bittersweet because this is the end of Colorado's long, long stay in the Big 12. I know you still play in the WINT but do you plan on watching the Pac-10 tournament this week and does your focus start maybe turning more officially now to that?
 COACH LAPPE: I think we do. We really haven't watched too many Pac-10 games except for when we can, because we were so focused on doing well in this conference and representing Colorado as we leave the conference. But now we definitely start to focus on the Pac-10 and we'll be watching a lot of film throughout the summer and getting ready for their teams and their strengths and their weaknesses and the types of players that they have, because it is a little bit different than the Big 12. 
 So, yeah, we're happy to be going, but it's also -- it is a little bit bittersweet because we've had a lot of success in the Big 12 and the Big Eight and playing a lot of the teams that will still be in this conference.
 PETER IRWIN: Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT