PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2009
Greg Bisconti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GREG BISCONTI: I told Mike walking up probably 16 how I appreciated the second round a lot more, the 72 that I shot to make the cut. And I'll probably appreciate this all a bit more in the next couple of days when I have a chance to settle down and think about it a little bit more. It feels good. Finished off nicely today which feels any better.  
  
  Q. Was playing in the PGA tougher or easier than you thought it would be?  
 GREG BISCONTI: This is my third one, so I guess I have a little bit of experience. This was a lot easier than the previous two.   
 The previous two, I was just nervous as heck, and this one, I felt a lot more in control and present, so to speak, and it just felt like a normal golf tournament to me.  
  
  Q. How wide is the gap between club pros and touring pros? You've had a chance to see some of it.   
 GREG BISCONTI: We work 50, 60 hours a week teaching golf all day and running tournaments at the club, and we don't get to fine-tune our games on a golf specific level.   
 Their physical fitness is off the charts. They are real athletes out here. And their short games are very tight and I think that's more because of their ability to practice a lot. There's a lot of great club professionals in the country, and you know, we just don't get to practice as much as we would want to.   
  
  Q. Generally disappointing or fun experience for you?   
 GREG BISCONTI: Oh, no, this is awesome. Made the cut in the PGA and wouldn't trade it for anything.   
  
  Q. Give an example of what you have going on when you get back to the club. Do you have lessons lined up for next week?   
 GREG BISCONTI: I'm sure there's lessons in the book. We are actually closed for three days this week so it's a nice way to get back in the swing of things.   
 If a member is looking for a lesson or a club to be regripped, we take care of the members first. I always try to take care of myself last. I got a little bit of practice in but not nearly enough to feel really prepared coming here.  
  
  Q. Besides the experience, what was the reason that you were less nervous this time than the first two times?  
 GREG BISCONTI: I'm not sure. I wish I could tell you maybe it was those two previous experiences that really helped.   
 The first time you're there, you're not sure if you're there by mistake or if it's an accident and you're going to go back. The second time it's kind of validation but you're still kind of out of sorts and it's kind of like, all right, I belong here and I can do this.  
 This week was more about making the cut and playing well, instead of going out and having a good time and staying out of everybody's way.   
  
  Q. What question will you get asked the most when you get back about playing?   
 GREG BISCONTI: That's a good question. I wish I had an answer for that. I've answered a lot of e-mails. Obviously these guys want to know about what differentiates a guy like me from these guys out here which you've already asked me, and I'm not sure. It's going to be interesting to see what all of the questions are. I'll be happy to answer them all.  
  
  Q. Did you meet Tiger?   
 GREG BISCONTI: I haven't gotten an e-mail. They will probably ask but I haven't even seen Tiger all week oddly enough.   
  
  Q. Can you pin it down to the nuts and bolts of the game between a club professional in your position and a TOUR professional, would it have to be the short game?   
 GREG BISCONTI: Their distance control is impeccable with their irons but I think that comes with -- for a guy like me, I'm not 100 percent confident over the ball in this environment. If you put me back in my course, my distance control is fantastic. You put me out here, I'm a little more tentative, so you don't catch it solid and your distance is tough. I think that's more being used to the environment. Their short games, they don't waste shots.   
 I played with Charles Howell in the practice rounds, which was a great experience, glad I did it. I asked him what the most important thing was he saw when he came out here in 2000 and said short game. He says, you guys hit it as good as we hit do. We just get it up-and-down all the time and wait for our ball-striking to come around, and when it comes around we make a bunch of birdies and hit it all over the place and make pars. They wait for their runs to come and in the meantime chip-and-putt it to death and wait.  
  
  Q. Was there enough to learn and gather here that you'll feel you'll go back and be a better teaching pro than before you arrived?  
 GREG BISCONTI: Yeah, I saw a few things in the guys' swings out there that I played with. I played with really good guys this week.   
 And I got a short lesson from -- real quick lesson from Stan Utley during the practice round, which I would say that's part of the reason why I made the cut because I got up-and-down a bunch out of this really thick rough. That's something I can bring back to my members.   
  
  Q. What's the best tip you can give to people who will play and are excited about playing?   
 GREG BISCONTI: Obviously you've got to have fun, because most of this game is between our ears. So you have to go out and have fun and just relax. We always try to tell our members to work on our short game. The short game creates a nice score at the end of the day, if you can put an 80 on your card instead of an 89, it always makes you feel better. Really just to work on their short games and trust that that really is the important thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT