MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 23, 2019
Asdrubal Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If you don't mind answering this in Spanish as well as English, you had a long time without playing last round, and you came right back into the fold. How do you deal with that getting back into it, in rhythm?  
ASDRÚBAL CABRERA: You know what, I'm really happy to be where we are right now. I mean, this is my 13th season. I think that's a dream for everybody that plays baseball.   
(Answer in Spanish.)   
 Q.  When you were with Cleveland you would have faced Verlander a bunch. You've had some success against him. What's the challenge that he presents?  
ASDRÚBAL CABRERA: That's long time ago. He's one of the best pitchers in the league, I faces a lot, he throws hard on those moments. And I'm going to be aggressive in the count, swing good pitch, try to do all the best to help the team to win.   
 Q.  You came aboard at kind of an interesting time when the team had already turned things around and was really starting to get into gear. Did you get the sense that you were joining a really special group that was going to go on to do things that you've done the last couple of months?  
ASDRÚBAL CABRERA: As soon as I get here they were no have fun because they were losing. But as soon as Parra get here, he change everything in the clubhouse. He's a happy guy. He try to feel everybody to feel comfortable in the clubhouse and have fun. And I think that's really important for the team want to be where we are right now.   
 Q.  You mentioned 13th year. Do you still get nerves in this situation? If so, how do you deal with them?  
ASDRÚBAL CABRERA: Not really. I thought I would be nervous early but as soon as the game is started, for me I'm putting my mind on the game. Maybe a little bit more pressure. Excited to be here, trying to focus and try to doing my best, like I did in the regular season.   
 Q.  If you don't mind answering in Spanish as well as English. You were on the Nationals in 2014. It was a painful loss to the Giants. How gratifying is it to come back five years later and reach the World Series?  
ASDRÚBAL CABRERA: I'm pretty happy to be back. That moment we lost that series against the Giants, and now this feels more special because we enjoy to be here, I think that's really important for the team want to be in the World Series. I think that's the only difference from this team and the 2014 team.   
(Answer in Spanish.)   
 Q.  With two different pitchers' styles in terms of Max and Stephen, does that change how you play defense behind the middle?  
ASDRÚBAL CABRERA: Not at all. I'm just going to be there and try to do my best, too. I think when you play with really good defense, they feel more confident on the mound. And when you have a guy like him, is always make you feel like confident on the field, too. You want to do good for them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT