WASHBURN UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 3, 2014
Bob Chipman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOB CHIPMAN:   I told Coach Self, I said, I hope we gave you just enough to break a sweat there.   I mean, they were so dominant.   Wow, were they good.   The offense, they moved the ball so well, and the spacing is unbelievable, and of course the big kids, you saw it in there, looked unstoppable.   We looked helpless there at times.   We tried to guard them man, wanted to stay with the man as much as we could, but I don't know if zone would have mattered.   They shot it well, they moved it ball. 
They've got a great group, and they're so big and strong, and they play so well together. 
Coach does such a great job.   Just appreciate the opportunity.   I think we got‑‑ the second half we got into the mix a little bit.   I thought we played a little bit better, but boy, early when we did get a shot up and missed it, I don't know, they had seven or eight blocks, and that really, really got us going.   I think we had five field goals, one assist the first half, and we're not that bad.   I mean, their defense was incredible, working really hard there.   Coach Self deserves a lot of credit.   They just took us out of everything we wanted to do.   I mean, they were amazing. 
Looks like another fun year for Kansas basketball to me.   Wow.   They looked good to me. 

Q.   What did you see from Korey? 
BOB CHIPMAN:   My Korey?   Korey is not afraid.   I mean, Korey can score.   He did it against Oklahoma last year when we played them.   He's an offensive machine.   He's not afraid to shoot it.   You know, we're pretty new at the guard spot and some of our first game guards there, Turon, Algie, looked like they were first‑game jitters, and of course KU's defense had a lot to do with it, but Korey had to be our leading scorer.   I haven't looked at the stats yet.   Kind of afraid to look at the stats.

Q.   When you see all that depth, what's that like to see that kind of depth that they have? 
BOB CHIPMAN:   Oh, it's incredible.   It looked machinelike already, the way they moved the ball and their spacing.   Coach has done an incredible job with them, as it seems like he always does. 
But the thing I liked about them is all the new guys and the returners, I mean, they're so unselfish.   Just happy to move the ball and get somebody a better shot.   They seem to have the strength, the unselfishness, and the thing that I saw this year from them that maybe I didn't see a couple years ago is defensively.   I mean, they were just playing so hard.   I think the depth is what you talked about, that allows you‑‑ they're allowed to play at that special level on defense and just keep throwing guys in there and keep guys fresh. 
Very impressive.   I want to thank Coach Self.   He came out last night when we were shooting around and talked to our team, did a great job talking to our guys.   It didn't look like it today, but I guarantee you it's going to be worth five victories for us, Coach Self coming out and talking to our group.   He spent about 15 minutes.   What an incredible guy.   Just appreciate the Jayhawks, wish we could have given them a little bit better run the first half, but that's basketball.   They did that to us. 

Q.   How much of this game do you take into Norman?
BOB CHIPMAN:   A couple guards, sprained ankle, an Achilles, and we're just trying to play at a high level with them.   The injury thing is the only thing that really scares you.   We'll take bits and pieces from that.   I mean, they really abused us that first half, but I think we'll concentrate more in the second half when we're in the fight.   You always want to take bits and pieces and build on that, hey, what did we do well that second half, this is what we've got to do. 
We'll just kind of watch the second half, get ready for Norman.   I think it's going to be more of the same.   I think Oklahoma, I don't know if they're this deep, but Oklahoma is going to be really good this year, and of course K‑State on Sunday. 
Great opportunity for us to really give guys an opportunity out there and try and come together as a group. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT