NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 31, 2010
Duncan Keith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Duncan, a little bit later on in Game 1, you saw little more of the Briere line as they started having some success. Do you think you might see a bit more of them tonight? Or will you be exclusively matched up against Richards. If you do, what are the differences between the lines?   
 DUNCAN KEITH: I don't really know -- I'm assuming it will be against the Richards line. It's the coach's decision. So I'm -- we'll see what it's like tonight.   
 But obviously both those lines are effective in a lot of ways. Briere has obviously been hot. He had a lot of points last game. He's real effective for them. We know what the Richards line can do as well. They got two pretty solid lines there. All their lines are solid, for that matter. Those two lines, definitely, have to be aware of tonight for sure.   
  
  Q. Duncan, do you prepare any differently if you anticipate a game being nasty, personally especially at the outset of the game if the Flyers are going to try to do more things? Do you prepare differently for that, and how you might adjust to that going into a game?   
 DUNCAN KEITH: I don't know if I really prepare any differently. I think trying to approach the game the same way every time and trying to -- my focus is always trying to be good defensively. As a defenseman, that should be the goal, number one, to be rock-solid defensively. All that other stuff that goes on, you know, you try not to get caught up in that.   
 Every team has been physical. There's been physical players on every team we've played. Certainly the Flyers have some guys who are physical. It's just another team.   
  
  Q. A lot has been said about being overexcited or nervous during Game 1. How do you guys control the very fine line of doing the same things that you've done all year to get here, but also making it a little bit -- amping things up for the Finals?   
 DUNCAN KEITH: I think the bottom line just comes down to -- obviously, we understand what's on the line and this is the Finals and it's the Playoffs. It's not Round 1, not Round 2. It's the Finals. I think the mindset we try take into that is to be good at all the things we've talked about all year long, whether that's in the defensive zone, neutral zone or offensive zone, all the things are just magnified even more just as they are from playoffs to the regular season to the pre-season, for that matter.   
 So I think every little play and every little detail just becomes more important.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks a lot, Duncan.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT