NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 27, 2010
Duncan Keith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Question off microphone).
 DUNCAN KEITH: It's in the back of your head a little bit, you know. That would obviously be pretty special to be able to do that. I don't know how often that's happened before. But that's the goal. Let's face it, that's what we're here for is to do that, and to win the Cup; but at the same time, I don't think - I think it's important not to get ahead of ourselves and think about it too much, which we don't. We'll take it one day at a time here, getting ready for this final series and looking forward to playing a good first five minutes and a good start to the first period and the first game.

 Q. (Question off Microphone). 
 DUNCAN KEITH: I've always wanted to win a Stanley Cup. I grew up as a kid wanting to win the Stanley Cup. And hoist that above your head. You watch it so many times as a kid and for me that's going to be bigger.

 Q. (Question off Microphone). 
 DUNCAN KEITH: He's done a lot of great things for this franchise and this city and for all of us players. I think really once he took over it's been a whole new world for the players and for everybody I think involved that follows the Blackhawks. The list goes on from just the way we're treated as players, and, obviously, getting the games put on TV. 
 And I just think that he's done so many great things, and it's a privilege for us as players to be part of this organization.

 Q. Looking back to those early days, what was it like playing here when the place was half empty the enthusiasm for the ownership, in particular. 
 DUNCAN KEITH: No, it wasn't. I remember those days pretty good, my first couple of years in NHL. As a young guy, I'm just happy to be in the NHL and be a part of it. Dream your whole life to be a part of NHL, and you finally do and it's great. As time goes by, you realize when things do change, just how much better it is now and how much of a hockey city this town really is. Like I said, it's just fun to be a part of that, living in this city and playing for this team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT