NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 11, 2013
Duncan Keith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Duncan, has Jonathan Toews changed at all since the last time he was on this stage?  
DUNCAN KEITH:   I don't know.   I don't really notice much.   I'm trying to worry about my own game.   Noticing changes in his game, I don't really think so.   He works hard, battles hard, competes every game, every shift he's out there.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
DUNCAN KEITH:   Definitely I think you mature as you get older probably on and off the ice as people and as players.   I think you just get that experience and you understand that, hey, not everything is going to go your way, not everything is going to be seen the same way from different people.   
I think he's done a good job just keeping a level head.   That's what makes him a great player.   
   
 Q.   Facing Rask this round, tough goaltender.   Considering the ones you've faced lately, is it just one more guy?  
DUNCAN KEITH:   Yeah, obviously there's been a lot of talk about Rask.   Rightfully so.   He's played great for them.   He's a big part of their success.   
I think we've played some good goalies in previous rounds.   We've managed to find ways to score.   So hopefully we can do the same.   
   
 Q.   What makes Coach Quennville an effective leader?  
DUNCAN KEITH:   I think for me, doesn't really get old.   He doesn't overdo things.   Whether it's meetings, just holding court talking to the players, he keeps that presence about him that when he does come in the room, has something to say, we listen.   He's not in there holding meetings every day, wearing guys out.   That's one thing that stands out for me.   
On top of that, I think he's just really a fair coach.   He demands a lot, but he's fair.   I think he's seen a lot as a player and as a coach and I think it helps him keep that level head, stay on even keel.   I think that rubs off on the team.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
DUNCAN KEITH:   Yeah, I don't know if it's changed a whole lot.   Still drives most of the time.   I don't know, I think we've been good friends off the ice since day one.   We were paired up together early on in our careers.   We lived together our first year in the league.   He's a great player.   He's easy to play with.   For me, it makes it easy for me to play out there with him.   
I think we have a good friendship off the ice.   We live close to one another in Chicago, back home in British Columbia, too.   We get enough of one another.   I'm sure he gets kind of sick of me once in a while.   
But I think just that friendship off the ice definitely can help your chemistry on the ice, too.   
   
 Q.   Conversations change, married, all that stuff.   
DUNCAN KEITH:   95% of our conversation is about hockey.   You know, definitely now that his wife is pregnant, I've had a boy, you do talk a little bit differently.   We're getting a little bit older now.   It's not about where we went the night before or anything like that.   It's more we're getting a bit older.   
   
 Q.   How has Patrick matured and what have you seen with his maturity?   
DUNCAN KEITH:   I don't know.   I think he's always been a little bit misunderstood in some ways.   Every guy likes to go out and have fun, especially when you're a young guy.   He's no different.   Sometimes it just kind of got caught on camera, pictures, things like that.   Maybe one incident sticks out in people's heads.   
To me, he's always been a good guy, a good teammate.   I think now he's got a girlfriend.   You can tell, he's 24, turning 25, he's not 18 or 19 anymore.   It's kind of fun seeing him and Toews get a little bit older, have girlfriends.   They're starting to stay in on a Friday night, watch a movie instead.   
   
 Q.   Is that one of the biggest differences with this team, compared to 2010, the maturity of those guys?  
DUNCAN KEITH:   Yeah, I don't know.   I think obviously they're three years older.   At the same time if we're talking Toews and Kane, they were two of our best players the year we won.   
Yeah, I think we've all matured over the last few years.   We've learned a lot, especially losing back‑to‑back years in the first round.   It's basically been the same team that's done that.   
We've grown together a lot the last three years as a group.   I think that's helped.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT