U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1996
Jakob Hlasek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. There were a few very close calls which worked well for you. Do you have any
reaction to that?

JAKOB HLASEK: Sorry?

Q. There were a few close calls which worked out good for you in the match. Have you
got any thoughts on that?

JAKOB HLASEK: Well, I thought, you know -- obviously in a match like that, there's
always going to be some mistakes. Unfortunately, you know, there were a lot on my side,
four on his side. It would have been nice if it would have been equal. He just played
really well, really solid. I just feel like he likes my game, he likes to be the
counter-puncher. I have trouble breaking him because he has such a great serve. I played a
good match. He was just much better today.

Q. There seems to be so many complaints about the umpires or about the calls. Do you
think that they are particularly bad here this year? 

JAKOB HLASEK: I don't know. I don't know if they are bad here this year. I mean, as I
said, it's not possible to have a perfect match. Bad calls are everywhere. I just -- I
think the players complain because they lost a lot of trust into this tournament. I just
feel the same when there's a bad call, it's just the trust is not there as in another
tournament. I'm sure that had something to do with what happened at the beginning of this
tournament. But I don't want to judge the linesmen. I think it's very difficult to have a
perfect match. It's just a little trust, for me, my feeling, it's lacking. That's how I
feel.

Q. In this stage of your career, what sort of expectations do you place for yourself as
you enter each tournament?

JAKOB HLASEK: Well, my expectations are to play well at the Grand Slams, play well at
the big tournaments. Basically now that this Grand Slam is over, I did really well in the
other Grand Slam events. At 32 it's difficult to go further. But I reached twice fourth
round in Wimbledon and here. That was my expectation for the Grand Slams. I had another
expectation for the Davis Cup. I have no expectation for the rankings. The big tournaments
are important at this stage of my career obviously.

Q. Do you see yourself playing on the 35 and over Tour in a couple years when that
comes about?

JAKOB HLASEK: I don't know. I don't know. I'm sure that I would like to play some
tournaments in the future, but I don't know if they would be day-to-day workout or
something like that, something serious like on a Tour basis. I think the life changes very
drastically after you stop playing tennis, like being on the Tour. You never know what
will happen, how your future life will proceed.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT