NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2006
Simon Greul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  What do you think?  You gave him a tough fight.   
 SIMON GREUL:  Yeah, at the moment, I'm disappointed, of course, because I lost the match.  I think it was a good match for both players.  I played a really good second set.  At the beginning I was not that good, and he started very well, served very well all the time.  I broke him one time in the second set.   
 Yeah, it was a good game, but I lost.  So I'm disappointed now.   
  Q.  What made the difference in the end, do you think?   
 SIMON GREUL:  I think, yeah, he served better than me.  Had also some easy points.  Yeah, in the end he played a little bit better, I think, also at the return games.  So he won.  That's okay.   
  Q.  Do you feel when it's so close that, "I came so close to beating Andy Roddick on center court"?  Is it harder to take when you're playing someone like that on center court and you come so close?   
 SIMON GREUL:  Yeah, yeah.  At the moment, you know, I'm disappointed, but I see now that I can play at this level and I can play with these guys.  I'm playing my game, I'm playing well.   
 So this is good for me.  But at the moment, it's very short after the match, so, yeah.   
  Q.  It's been no secret, and Andy said himself, that he hasn't had the best early season, he's been struggling.  Was that in your mind when you went on the court, that he was in a bit of a down patch?   
 SIMON GREUL:  No, not really.  I think he is a very good player.  He won so many titles and matches.  He's No. 4 in the world.  Okay, he didn't start this season that good, but, yeah, he's a very good player.  It was my first last 16 at a Super 9 tournament, so, yeah, I didn't think about it.   
  Q.  Instant replay made its biggest impact yet out there in the third set.  What was your reaction to having two consecutive calls reversed?   
 SIMON GREUL:  Yeah, both times I was sure that the decision was wrong of the referee, so I challenged it, and two times I was right.   
 Yeah, it's the new system.  It's okay.  If it happens, I use it.  But, yeah, I don't need it.   
  Q.  How would you have been if this was six months ago and you see those same two calls and you know they're right and you don't have the option to overturn it?  How would you have dealt it?  Would you fight about that for a few points?   
 SIMON GREUL:  No, no, I think, okay, they have now the system.  It's okay if they use it.  But in such a long tournament, you always have some good calls and some bad calls.  It doesn't make the difference at the end.   
  Q.  You mentioned his serve.  What makes it so tough?  Have you ever faced anything like that?   
 SIMON GREUL:  The serve of Andy?   
  Q.  Yes.   
 SIMON GREUL:  Yeah, it's really fast.  It's really fast.  That's different to the other players.  He serves a high percentage also, that makes it very difficult.  Also his second serve is good, you cannot attack it like the service from the other players.   
 Yeah, it's difficult to return it.   
  Q.  We can put you down in favor of instant replay now?   
 SIMON GREUL:  Repeat?   
  Q.  You're in favor of it, the idea and concept of it?   
 SIMON GREUL:  Yeah, I think it's for the crowd, you know.  They like it.  For me, it's okay.  Yeah, it's only on the big court, so, yeah, I think it's not that good that it's only on one court because the other players on the other courts have the same problems.  It should be the same for all.   
 But, you know, I don't have to decide if it's good or bad.  I use it when I can.  If it's not there, for me it's also okay.   
  Q.  Were those the only two calls you challenged, today?   
 SIMON GREUL:  Yeah.   
  Q.  Two-for-two?   
 SIMON GREUL:  Yeah, two-for-two.   
  Q.  How about the Henman match?   
 SIMON GREUL:  Yeah, I challenged one and it was wrong.  It was far inside, so it was bad to challenge (smiling).   
  Q.  Did you feel Andy feeling more and more confident as the match went on?  Can you sense the other player, how they're feeling about them self?   
 SIMON GREUL:  Yeah, I think at the beginning of the third set he pushed himself a lot and was very aggressive.  I felt this a little bit.   
 But, yeah, I tried to focus on myself, on my play, and how I behave on the court.  And so, yeah, I saw it, but I didn't care about it.   
  Q.  Are you confident now that we will hear from you again?   
 SIMON GREUL:  Yeah, I hope so.  I think I will go back now, prepare for the clay court season in Europe, and then I hope we see us again.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT