MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How was it out there today?
LUKE DONALD:   A little bit up‑and‑down.   I made a few too many mistakes.   Made six birdies though.   So there was a lot of positives as well.   The course is, the greens were as soft and slow as I've ever seen them and I think that's why you see some pretty good scores out there.   It was a little bit tough on some of the greens just adapting to that, the usual lines that we usually see were a little bit less. 
And then, obviously, I found out on the 15th that I got a little crack in my driver, so I'm going to have to replace that, which wasn't very good for the old mental side. 

Q.   What did you do then?
LUKE DONALD:   I don't have a backup with me, so I'm going to have to get one for tomorrow's round.   I can't play it any more.   I could finish the round with it, but I wasn't able to, I won't be able to continue with it. 

Q.   Did you have any indication that that had happened?
LUKE DONALD:   I just saw it walking up the 14th.   And I called over the official and asked him if I, what the rule was, and he said, well, you can still continue the round with it, but after the round they had a closer look at it and I think that it is bad enough where I'm not allowed to play it for the next round. 

Q.   That's unsettling when something like that happens, isn't it?
LUKE DONALD:   It's going to be tough.   I'm going to have to get some drivers here as quickly as possible and obviously not having teed up one, having a fresh one, it's not where you really want to be, ideally, but I'll manage. 

Q.   Do you still have people here from Mizuno?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I use a TaylorMade driver, but I think most of them probably have left yesterday.   But they will be able to fly one in overnight, I think. 

Q.   We're expecting some weather coming in, some rain, do you think ‑‑ you said the greens were slow.   Do you think that will impact them?
LUKE DONALD:   Augusta can turn these greens on and off pretty much at will with their SubAir System, as long as we don't get one or two inches of rain, they will start the engines up underneath the greens and dry them out, but certainly this is as slow as I've seen them.   They're not slow, but they're slower than what we're used to.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT