WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2013
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Came up against an express train?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, Scott played very well, I played just very average.   I need to drive it well around this course.   There's a few forced carries out there, and probably didn't drive it well enough today to put any pressure on Scott.   But he was 7‑under through 12 and just playing extremely solid, didn't give me really a look.   I had a few opportunities on the greens, but for whatever reason I was just not making the putts today, and hence I'm going home.

Q.   How much did his start kind of surprise you?   Catch you off balance a little bit?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, he started solidly, but I gave him the 1st and the 3rd, and 3 down after 3.   I had my back against the wall, and he holed a 3‑iron or 2‑iron or something on the 5th hole.   He kept putting the pressure on me, birdie on 6, birdie on 8, birdie on 9, he just kept making birdies and wasn't giving me much of an opportunity to get back in it.

Q.   How do you feel like you played this week?
LUKE DONALD:   I played very solidly yesterday.   Today I wasn't quite on my game.   But I'm seeing improvement every week. 
Last week was a little bit inconsistent, great short game, but off the tee and into the greens was a little inconsistent.   This week I've seen a lot of improvement, so I'm excited about where my game is heading, and match play is just one of those formats where this sort of thing can happen.   Scott played very solidly. 

Q.   You just mentioned the match play format.   There's a pretty good chance all four No.1 seeds will be out of hereafter today.   Does that blow you away at all?
LUKE DONALD:   It's a little bit the nature of the beast.   I think over 18 holes anyone has got a chance.   I think maybe the No.1 seeds or the higher seeds, the better seeds as you say, maybe there's a little bit more expectation on their shoulders and the other guys have nothing to lose.   You know, I don't mind the format.   I like that we have some match play and the fact that it breaks up the season.   But that's just the way it goes.   You've got to be on your game.

Q.   Seems like it almost softens the blow, too, if you catch a guy in the second round who goes 7‑under through 12, there's not much you can really do about it. 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   You know, losing sucks, and it's very disappointing.   But I would have liked to have given him a bit better of a match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT