WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 19, 2013
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Luke, thanks for joining us and welcome back.   If you could just start us off with your thoughts on returning to a venue that's been very kind to you in the past. 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, obviously very fond memories from a couple years ago.   Obviously this was a tournament that was kind of a springboard for what was my best year out on TOUR.   Obviously winning here gave me a huge amount of confidence, went on to become No.1 in the world and won a bunch of tournaments, and obviously I think a lot of that was the result of winning here against a great field and winning this prestigious tournament. 
Yeah, it's always fond memories to come back here.   I think the players always enjoy the challenges of match play.   It breaks up the year a little bit, and excited to be here. 

Q.   There might be a high tomorrow of 40 and it might snow tomorrow.   Obviously the last time you won it did snow on you.   How does that change your approach if it does at all? 
LUKE DONALD:   If it snows, I think we'll be in the clubhouse.   I suppose you just‑‑ when weather is‑‑ bad weather is expected, the thing that gives me a gleam in my eyes is when I hear people worrying about it, complaining about it.   I think as a player, the best approach is to try and embrace it, just know that it's going to be tough, work your way through it.   It's going to be the same for my opponent.   Just keep smiling through that tough weather, it's not going to be easy.   It's going to be tough.   This is a very long golf course.   It's going to make it extremely long. 
But I think you've just got to go out there and embrace the conditions and not let it affect your attitude. 

Q.   Is there a specific thing that you keep in mind to make your iron play so consistent? 
LUKE DONALD:   I mean, like with everything that I do, I'm always trying to concentrate on solid fundamentals, working on making sure I have a good grasp of what I need to do.   I think in iron play you've got to maintain posture pretty well, and that's a thought that I keep when I'm swinging, and I think that serves anyone‑‑ most good iron players have good posture, consistent strike, and I think that's one of the keys that I think of. 

Q.   Do you feel that your irons are the strongest part of your game, and if so, why? 
LUKE DONALD:   I think the last few years I would say my short game has been the strongest part of my game.   Anything inside 100 yards.   I've statistically been one of the best in the world at that, and I think that's been a huge part of my success. 
Obviously when I can put my long game together with that short game, that's when I become dangerous. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Luke, good luck the rest of the week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT