DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 25, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LUKE DONALD:   Well, obviously Rory has been the best player all year and that was some finish by him.   You have to give him a lot of credit for digging deep.   I think both of us weren't feeling 100 per cent physically, but he found the strength to finish like that, and hats off to him, what a way to finish off a great year for him.  
   
 Q.   The way you started today promised well and then sadly the first bogey in 103 holes.   
LUKE DONALD:   I guess it was going to happen at some point.   All runs come to an end.   But again, I struggled to get any momentum today.   
I felt a little bit flat, and unfortunately I couldn't get things going.   And you know, obviously Justin put on quite a show in front of us, and nudged Rory enough to get him going.   
   
 Q.   It's probably hard to put your finger on why you couldn't get it going but on the greens it wasn't the form you showed all week?  
LUKE DONALD:   I must physically, I don't like to make excuses but the last couple of days I've had the sinus again and it's going to‑‑ it makes me feel good enough that what I'm doing in a couple weeks, I'm going to have a surgery to fix that, and hopefully that will be the end of that.   
   
 Q.   What's the surgery?   What's the effect?   
LUKE DONALD:   It's just on my sinuses.   They are all completely clogged up and every time I get a little bit run down, they turn into infections.   So hopefully that will sort it out.   It's a pretty quick and easy operation, but that's the end of that.   
   
 Q.   As you have the front row seat, please elaborate on Rory's finish to claim the title.   
LUKE DONALD:   A lot of grit and determination, and he's proved that once again, he's the best player in the world.   You know, it's capped off an amazing year for him, and you know, congrats.   I think he'll be around for a long time but it's good, he'll push me to work harder.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT