WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 31, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Good morning, thanks for joining us.   Welcome back to the World Golf Championships ‑ HSBC Champions.   Thoughts on feelings on the week ahead?   You had a good finish last week and seem to be back in the groove after The Ryder Cup.  
    LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, it was nice to putt in four pretty solid rounds last week, come in here, looking to improve a couple spots if possible.   
    As I said, it's getting close to the end of the year, Race to Dubai, and this is a big event with a strong field and looking forward to bringing some of that form from last week to this week.   Excited to be here.   This is obviously a big event for golf, a big event in China and Asia, and excited to be a part of it.   
    MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Obviously a new venue this week.   Have you been to Mission Hills before, or first time here?   
    LUKE DONALD:   I was here a few years back for the Goodwill Trophy, played on the other course, I think the Nicklaus Course.   I have not played this course yet but excited to get out there for the Pro‑Am and see it.   
    I've heard a lot of positive things about it, and yeah, obviously this is a huge development here and it's hosted some great events over the years.   This event will add to its history.     
   
 Q.   A lot of comments made by a lot of professionals that this is a pretty long golf course.   What do you think about your own strategy and how do you deal with it?   
    LUKE DONALD:   Again, I'll know more about my strategy after today's round.   I haven't played the course yet.   The weather wasn't very conducive to getting a lot of work yesterday.   But yeah, from what I've heard, five par 5s, five par 3s; from looking at the scorecard, it's 7,300 yards; is that correct?   
    Week‑in, week‑out we play long golf courses.   I'm not one of the longest hitters, but I believe that I do a lot of my talking on the golf course with my short game.   I'm always very good around the greens, and usually the guy who putts the best is the guy who wins.   That's kind of how I approach most courses.   
   
 Q.   You have skipped the end of the season because of the PGA TOUR because of your kids, are they okay?  
    LUKE DONALD:   My youngest daughter, Sophia, she has a routine operation.   She was born with a skin defect on her ear.   She's already had one operation to remove most of it.   She has a second one next week.   
    It's still scary as a parent whenever your child is put under for an operation, and I just want to be there with my wife to support her and make sure everything goes well.   It's a routine operation.   It should be fine.   But as parents, you always worry about these things.  
   
 Q.   Does that mean then that you still have a chance to win The Race to Dubai or if you're missing next week then you'll effectively be giving up that chance?   
    LUKE DONALD:   It's Disney that I'm missing.   So it would only count on the PGA TOUR.   
   
 Q.   So in that case, what do you think of your chances to The Race to Dubai?   
    LUKE DONALD:   Rory is making it tough on us.   He's playing very consistently every week.   He's won some big events that count on both tours; and hence, he's in a very similar position that I was last year where he has a chance to win both money titles.   
    He's got a pretty big lead.   I'm going to need to pretty much win out.   I'm going to need to win this event and win Dubai for any chance.   I haven't even looked mathematically if it's even possible, but I think it would be; but again, it's going to take for me to probably win both events to have a chance.   
   
 Q.   I am media from Hong Kong, and I would like to ask about on Monday you were in Hong Kong but thought that you were in Shanghai?   
    LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, that was a mistake, a mistake with my fingers unfortunately.   I was very aware I was in Hong Kong.   Just made a mistake with that Tweet and corrected it later.   
    But yeah, I had a couple days in Hong Kong and enjoy the city very much.   I had a walk around, got to see some of the shops and the sights.   It was a fun day visiting HSBC, their main offices there, getting to see and walk along the exchange floor and see what goes on behind the scenes.   It was a fun afternoon.   
    MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Many thanks for joining us.   Good luck this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT