RBC HERITAGE
April 14, 2017
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Take us through the birdie on 18?
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, obviously another great second shot there out to the right.  The grass is really nice.  It was a little bit of a struggle today but my short game helped me out.
Q. You have such good history around here, do you know why this golf course seems to fit you no matter how you're playing coming into the golf tournament?
LUKE DONALD: I think it's just the course, itself.  The greens are very small and in order to hit all of them you need to be good around the greens.  You've got to keep yourself in it.  You can miss it in certain places, but you have to be smart.
Q. A win on Sunday would mean what to your career at this point?
LUKE DONALD: Hopefully a little bit of coming back to what I really feel like I can play.  The last couple of years have been a struggle.  But I still feel like I've got some good years in me.  And obviously I play well around here and I need to try and finish off this weekend.
Q. Where do we start?  First at 18, what a terrific third shot that was for you.
LUKE DONALD: Yeah.  I've always felt like I pitched the ball really well around here.  The grass lends itself to be enough to create some spin.  And I needed that down there.  I didn't have much green to work with, going downwind, and it just came out perfectly, a little side spin into the cup.
Q. No. 10, what a par that was at No. 10.  Take us through that hole.
LUKE DONALD: I hit a few poor drives today and I need to work on that.  Obviously it was a little more stressful this round than I would have liked.  My great short game baled me out.  A pitched it way right on 10.  And was lucky to be able to sink about a 15-footer for par.
Q. There were a lot of holes like that.  Let's talk about tomorrow.  You're going to play in the last group.  You've been there many times before.  Obviously you're excited?
LUKE DONALD: I am excited.  I need to tighten up the driving a little bit, but the rest of the game feels pretty solid.  So I'm excited about that.  And give myself another chance, which is great.
Q. And the weather is going to be just like it has been the last two days.  Everything is going to fall into place it appears.
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, and certainly from past experience you can't sit on your laurels and just make pars.  I'm going to try to post another good round tomorrow.
Q. A heck of a way to finish the round.  Talk about your day.
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it was a little more stressful than I would have liked.  I struggled off the tee.  And this is a tough golf course to struggle off the tee.  But my short game really baled me out today.  I'll go work on the range a little bit, tighten up my drives, and hopefully be better off the tee tomorrow.  Certainly happy with my score.  I haven't been out of position, but those last holes was satisfying.
Q. Chip in on 18?
LUKE DONALD: I felt good over the chip.  I've always pitched it well around here.  The grass lends itself to be able to spin it.  And I caught that one just right.  And it just trickled in the edge of the hole.  It was fun to see that go in.
Q. Tied for the lead, should be a fun weekend?
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, we've got great weather again.  I'm going to have to go out there and play two more solid rounds.  There are a lot of players behind me.  I've been in this position before, and I've got to go out there and be aggressive and make some birdies.  Certainly playing for pars won't get it done out here.  You've got to be attacking the golf.
Q. How was your putting?
LUKE DONALD: Didn't really miss too much.
Q. You changed your shaft?
LUKE DONALD: A year ago.
Q. Is there any big difference or is it the same?
LUKE DONALD: I did it because I thought there was less face rotation.  So the squarer you can have that blade the longer, the more consistent you're going to be.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT