BMW MASTERS
October 26, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LUKE DONALD:   Played probably a little bit more solid yesterday tee‑to‑green but it's a funny game this, sometimes, and I had the putter working pretty well and got in a better rhythm on the back nine. 
You know, just not much happening on the front nine, but a couple birdies and a bogey and made a few putts on the back nine to shoot 67 to get myself a little bit more back into this event. 
Pretty generous fairways on this course and big greens.   Obviously they are very sectioned off and you have to hit it in the right spot to give yourself opportunities, but you're going to hit a lot of greens.   So it's important to get that flat stick working, like most weeks, but especially this week with the big greens.
A lot of low scores, Jamie showed it yesterday and already been a few good scores posted this morning; Robert Karlsson; I think Shane Lowry had a good one, too.   So definitely pretty ideal conditions, not too much wind.   Greens are holding and putting nicely, and it's giving some opportunities. 

Q.   A couple 67s over the weekend, you shouldn't be too far away. 
LUKE DONALD:   I'll probably need that.   I'll give it my best shot. 

Q.   Your thoughts on 67? 
LUKE DONALD:   It was nice.   Yesterday I gave away couple coming down the stretch with poor tee shots.   The fairways are pretty generous here and I hit it in a couple bunkers off the tee on 14 and 18. 
You know, it was a little bit of a disappointing finish, but today I took advantage of the chances that I gave myself, especially on the back nine, got a little bit of momentum going with four birdies on the back nine. 

Q.   And essentially 7‑under is a nice position on that board?
LUKE DONALD:   It's looking a lot better.   It's got me back in the mix.   That's what you want to do.   Obviously if I had shot even or 1‑under or 2‑under today, I might have been a bit too far behind.   But 67, I feel like I'm giving myself a bit of a chance. 

Q.   Do you fancy that you're getting into this course, if you like?   I know you said initially that there would be opportunities; that despite the length, you've got a good plan for it? 
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think we've shown that, quite a few guys have shot some really low scores.   Certainly with generous fairways and pretty big greens, you're going to get a lot of opportunities for birdies. 
You know, the more I play this course, the more I'm kind of learning the intricacies.   It does give it an advantage to guys that can kind of cut the corners a little bit; take on some of those doglegs.   You're going to hit some shorter irons into.   I've done that a few times and been able to make a few birdies because of it.

Q.   It's probably immaterial, but do you appreciate the design and the layout and the look of the place, as well?   It's, if you like, an odd sort of mix, linksy feels and then very lush sort of fairways. 
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think it definitely reminds me of a Nicklaus course.   Again, he gives you some opportunity off the tee.   But if you can take on the tight line, you're going to get quite a bit closer to the green.   He loves to make the greens tough and slopey.   That's his way of trying to make the courses a little bit trickier. 
You know, he realises that a lot of people hit it very far and no matter how long you make the golf course, people are still hitting hid to short irons into a lot of these par 4s.   And again, it's a clever design. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT