THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LUKE DONALD: Bubba was putting some serious pressure on me.   He was making some great birdies, chip in in on 16 was unexpected, but I guess in this game you've got to expect that.   To hit that bunker shot, it was good bunker play.   It was nice to get the first point for Europe.   
   
 Q.   Talk about what would happen if you could get two or three points on the board and get momentum.   
LUKE DONALD:   There was a lot of blue early on in the first matches.   We've still got a chance.   We've got to cheer the boys on.   
As I said, I've had good support this week.  
   
 Q.   Was that shot a lot tougher than it looks?   
LUKE DONALD:   It wasn't too tough to get it within maybe eight feet, but to stiff it, I'll take that.   I think that's why you practice, under this pressure you want to be able to pull off shots like this.  
   
 Q.   Top‑ten all time shot for you?  
LUKE DONALD:   Well, 14 would have been top 10 if I had known (indiscernible.)  
   
 Q.   You set the tone from the very beginning.   You jumped off to a quick lead against Bubba, you never relinquished that lead and posted the first point of the day for the European side.   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I had a lot of responsibility going out number 1 to get some blue up on the board early.   I wish I had done it a few holes earlier.   But Bubba put some pressure on me at the end, and I was glad I held on.   
   
 Q.   You are one of the best bunker players in the world.   You showed it here at the 17th.   
LUKE DONALD:   It's nice.   This is a tough amphitheater to play in with everything going on.   But I knew Bubba had a tough chip, and if I could put it in close, it was going to put the pressure on him.  
   
 Q.   How good does it feel to put those first points up?  
LUKE DONALD:   What a relief.   It feels great.   This is why we come, to give our team the best chance we can, and obviously it's an uphill battle, but we're looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   This is definitely a pro‑American crowd, but there were an awful lot of chants here.   As you know, you are an adopted son of Chicago.   
LUKE DONALD:   I felt very much at home this week.   It was great to have all the cheers I did.   I didn't feel so sectioned out as probably some of the other guys on our team would have.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT