DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is it fair to ask how many calls you got last night?
LUKE DONALD:   It's the first time you've wanted to interview me after shooting 1‑under.   Yeah, quite a few.   I made a mistake, unfortunately.   I made an error.   I sent a message that was not meant to go out on Twitter, and I take full responsibility.   I realized it immediately, tried to delete it and tried to move on.   Unfortunately it got caught up there, and such is life.   I didn't mean to put it out there, and I apologize to anyone I offended, especially Gil Hanse.

Q.   It was supposed to be a direct message?
LUKE DONALD:   It was, yeah. 

Q.   Back to the original question, how many phone calls did you get?
LUKE DONALD:   I shut my phone off, actually.   It was ringing pretty hard.   Probably a new number is in store for me.   That's what I deserve.

Q.   Were strangers calling you? 
LUKE DONALD:   I got plenty of voicemails, yeah.

Q.   Does this limit your Twitter going forward? 
LUKE DONALD:   Well, it's certainly a powerful tool, and you've got to be very aware of it.   There's a certain addiction to Twitter.   It's that constant update that everyone enjoys.   But probably wise if I took a little bit of a hiatus maybe.

Q.   Gil is here this week.   Have you talked to him?
LUKE DONALD:   I have not, but if I see him, I'll certainly go up to him and say I'm sorry.   It was not meant for public viewing, and I apologize if any language offended him. 

Q.   Any new thoughts on it now?
LUKE DONALD:   I'm still not that keen on it.   I think the TOUR have done a great job in terms of making this course a lot better.   I just think some of the design in that hole is a little severe.   Obviously I was pretty heated, and certainly by the time that message went out, I had calmed down a lot, but it certainly wasn't meant to be public.

Q.   How did you actually find out it ended up going out public?
LUKE DONALD:   I realized it pretty quickly that I had made a mistake. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT