DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You missed a short one today, and that look on your face, I've never seen that look on your face, but all in all, a pretty good start. 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, my only bogeys today were three‑putts.   The one on 8, I was thinking that one was in the hole, and it just did a 360 on me.   I'm not sure what happened there.   Yeah, I'm really pleased actually the way I played.   I didn't hit the ball very well yesterday.   I worked on the range after the pro‑am.   Not that I hit it that great in pro‑ams usually anyway, but I just wasn't very comfortable with it, and I worked on the range, took a couple videos and changed a couple little things, and it seemed to click. 
Yeah, I played nice and tidy golf today, and that was really encouraging.

Q.   Was it a day for scoring out there today?
LUKE DONALD:   I think so.   It looks like the wind is starting to pick up a little bit, so maybe getting off in the morning was a good start, a little bit more favorable maybe than the guys playing this afternoon.   But yeah, the conditions were nice.   The greens are holding.   The greens are pure here.   You really can make some good putts, and I think that's part of my success here the last couple years is I feel comfortable on the greens and see the slopes and hole my fair share.

Q.   I know you weren't happy with the way you were hitting it yesterday, but coming into this week, you seemed to be in good form. 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, the last four events I think I've had three top 10s.   So yeah, I'm working hard.   I think it's easy when it gets to this part of the season to kind of take your foot off the pedal a little bit, but I've been really trying to work a little bit harder, work on the swing a little bit, and just finish that crossing line at the Ryder Cup.   I know after that I'll have a little bit more time off.   But yeah, putting in the effort, and it's nice to see the results are close.   It's not quite where I want it to be, but certainly happy with the progress. 

Q.   What were your impressions of the changes to 18? 
LUKE DONALD:   They made it harder.   That's a smaller, slopier green.   You hit it long, it's a little bit‑‑ it's a very tough shot from over the green.   They've certainly made it more difficult. 
I guess their goal was to make it a little bit more interesting come Monday, I suppose.   There could be a swing there.   You could easily make bogey, but you have an opportunity to make eagle.

Q.   Do you think that succeeded on that front, that things might become more interesting on Monday?
LUKE DONALD:   I think so.   You know, from my standpoint I think they've made the slope off the back just one or two feet too deep, but certainly it's a tough shot if you go over the back.   You certainly can hit a pretty good shot into that green and just trickle over, and then suddenly you're doing well to give yourself a birdie opportunity. 
But it's a par‑5.   It's a short par‑5.   It should be a tough green, and I think they've accomplished that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT