WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LAURA HILL:   We'd like to welcome Luke Donald into the interview room with a 66 to get things started here at the Bridgestone Invitational.   Maybe just talk about your round in general and how you found the course.   
LUKE DONALD:   Course was in great shape.   You know, it's always that way.   Phil and I were actually talking about that, that the greens are so pure, the fairways are pure, the tees are purer than most of the greens we played growing up as kids.   It's always in great shape, this place.   
You know, and I got off to a great start.   I was 3‑under through 3, gave a few bogeys back with a few poor drives.   That's the only thing really I needed to work on after today's media session.   
But I had the pace and the line on the greens really well.   I made a bunch of putts today, and that was obviously another key to a solid round.   
LAURA HILL:   Feeling refreshed after ‑‑ kind of a break between one long stretch and the next?   
LUKE DONALD:   I'm still fighting a little bit of a sinus infection, but other than that, yeah, I had a nice week off last week.   Did some nice work on the range, and yeah, confident about‑‑ excited about a good, long stretch of some good tournaments coming up.   
   
 Q.   I was just wondering, where did you do your work?   Did you come back to Chicago and do your work there?  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, I was in Chicago, spent all last week there in very similar conditions, and was able to get some work in.   Had a few days off after the Open.   I think most people take a couple days off to kind of recharge and relax, and then back to work.   
   
 Q.   Phil has played here a lot.   You a little bit less so, but this is not your first time around this track.   Would you say that it's as good as it's ever been or as good as you've seen it right now?  
LUKE DONALD:   I think so.   I mean, it's hard to nit‑pick between years because it's always very good here.   The conditions are always first‑class.   As I said, the fairways, the greens, you can putt on the tees if you really needed to.   It's always in great shape, and it's one of those very straightforward golf courses.   Everything is in front of you.   There's no tricks to it.   You've just got to do everything pretty well.   
   
 Q.   Bubba said that the weather conditions kind of dictated where he would be able to hit driver on most of the holes.   Did you find it that way, too?   Did you hit driver a lot?  
LUKE DONALD:   Usually for me, I'm not quite like Bubba.   I have to hit driver on most holes.   A lot of the holes here I'm hitting driver, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the weather had anything to do with it?   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, wind conditions perhaps.   There was pretty much zero wind out there today.   You know, I guess on certain holes if it's really downwind, then Bubba doesn't need to hit driver.   I'll probably still hit it.  
   
 Q.   Every week it seems like we have these scenarios if Lee does this he can be No.1, if Tiger does this, if Rory does that.   Do you like having the bull's eye on your back being No.1?  
LUKE DONALD:   I love being No.1, yeah.   It just reminds me of how consistent and how well I've played the last couple years.   I mean, it's a great plus in terms of the mental side, just knowing the results that got me there, I think it's great to be there, and it pushes me harder to work harder to try and stay there, as well.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you get enough respect as No.1?  
LUKE DONALD:   Amongst my peers, yeah, absolutely.   
   
 Q.   How about otherwise, publicly?   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I mean, I've answered this before.   Obviously there isn't as much fanfare around me.   I kind of go about my business.   You know, it is‑‑ I don't really know how to answer that.   I think certainly the fact that I haven't won a major distracts away from some of the fan base, and I understand that.   But in terms of myself and knowing what got me there, I'm certainly very proud of everything I've done.   
LAURA HILL:   Luke, thanks for your time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT