THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on the round?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, it was one of those where it could have been really special.   Again, it was a very solid round tee‑to‑green.   I didn't do a lot wrong.   It could have been four or five better with a few putts.
I lipped out on 7, 8, 9 and again on 12.   So I had chances on 15 and 16.   So it was one of those rounds where I did a lot of good things.   Unfortunately I couldn't quite hole the putts, but I'll take a lot of positives away from this week.   Certainly I'll leave this week knowing that my game is definitely good enough to win majors. 
Yeah, it's a big step forward for me from a few weeks back, from the U.S. Open.

Q.   You smiled the whole way, really, every day.   You've obviously really enjoyed yourself. 
LUKE DONALD:   Well, it was a conscious effort, too.   As I said at the beginning of the week, sometimes I get a little bit too uptight, a little bit anxious.   But I have that choice to smile or not.   Sometimes you have to fake it, sometimes it's real.   But obviously I felt a lot more comfortable in terms of my game coming into this week as opposed to the U.S. Open. 
I worked hard on my long game, spent a lot more time on the range than I usually would.   As a result that helps.   I felt comfortable in terms of my game and I was able to go out there and enjoy it a little bit more.

Q.   Was that a real breakthrough for you, as opposed to previous majors where you did feel so much self‑imposed pressure?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, sometimes you do learn a lot by playing poorly like I did at the U.S. Open and not living up to my expectations.   I certainly was very anxious and didn't do a good job on the mental side.   So this week was a huge improvement in terms of that and I'll use that going forward.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LUKE DONALD:   Well, of course, any time you welcome a child into the world.   He has a smile on his face at all times anyway, but he was especially beaming when I saw him yesterday when he came back through the door.   And he'll have a nice eight or nine days at home enjoying being a father.

Q.   Is he calling him Luke?
LUKE DONALD:   No, not really, because it's a girl (laughter).   It would be a bit strange.   No, Georgina.

Q.   Your home country, but the reception was really terrific for you this week?
LUKE DONALD:   It is.   I get really great crowd support here.   The fans are cheering me on, a lot of "Luke" shouts.   It's fun to play in front of‑‑ even when you make a mistake and make a bogey, they're there cheering you on and pushing you on, and you use that.   It's always great to play in front of a home crowd.

Q.   You were 5th on the leaderboard and rising. 
LUKE DONALD:   Just on the greens.   In previous Open Championships I have struggled on the greens.   They're 300 years old and they settle a little bit and they're very tough to read.   They're not like the greens we play on week in and week out, which have a consistent burrow to them.   There's almost a bit more of a feel it to get the ball in.   I felt like I hit a lot of good shots today, good putts, but they just‑‑ it wasn't quite finding the bottom of the hole. 
I'll come away from here with a lot of confidence knowing that my game tee‑to‑green was easily good enough to win this week.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LUKE DONALD:   It is what it is.   It's nice being No.1.   I'll continue to work hard on my game and try and produce good results.   I mean, World Rankings is a little bit more about consistency.   I've probably been the most consistent player over the year.

Q.   Next for you are the Bridgestone and the US PGA? 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, it never ends.   A few days off and then back at it.   Obviously the World Golf Championship and then the PGA.   It's a quick turnaround to the next major.   And then obviously after that on to the FedExCup and the Ryder Cup.   It's a busy stretch for me, but I'm excited.   I'm excited where my game is.

Q.   You've lived in America for a long time now, but how much do you feel the burden, if any, to win an Open or a major?   You're in the pantheon of very good golfers, English golfers.   How much would it mean to win one for the country?   Do you feel that at all?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think it would be fantastic to win one here.   Even being somewhat in contention, having the crowd really behind me, it's a special feeling.   There's nothing quite like walking down 18 with the crowds cheering you on and really behind you.   I can only imagine what that would be like with a one‑shot lead.   And hopefully I'll have that opportunity one day.

Q.   Is there any difference being a contender and winning a major, might be more mental than technical?
LUKE DONALD:   Obviously technically, as I said, tee‑to‑green, I was good enough to win this week.   It was certainly solid enough, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.   It just came down to the short stick, which usually is a very strength of mine.   But again, it's a different type of surface, The Open Championship.   Sometimes you just need to get on those runs where it goes in.   Certainly I didn't hit too many poor putts, it's just getting on that run.   It will happen. 

Q.   Any thoughts on using the longer putter? 
LUKE DONALD:   Unlikely I'll go there.   But I wouldn't mind seeing them not allowed to be used, I'll put it that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT