THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LUKE DONALD:   Sorry, are you talking about Sunday?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
LUKE DONALD:   Whenever I can win a point, it doesn't really matter to me.   I'll leave that to Jose to decide where he wants to put me, where he thinks I'll fit in the best.   And if I can go out there and win a point for the team, that's what I'm trying to do.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LUKE DONALD:   Consistency.   I don't give away too many holes.   In match play I think that's the key, just keep it in play and keep putting pressure on your opponent.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LUKE DONALD:   Let's talk about the Ryder Cup (laughter).   
You know, it didn't play poorly, just, you know, got a tricky lie in the bunker on 6, tried to get a little too much out of that to try and save par and made double and kind of held the momentum, so the first six holes didn't really miss a shot.  
And from then on, again, it wasn't poor play, it was just tough to get these balls close to these holes even though there's no wind out there, the greens are reasonably soft.   The pins are on these little subtle burrows that just make it extremely difficult, and I think it's‑‑ I guess a tip of the hat to old architecture.   You don't need big, sloping burrows on greens to make it tough.   These little subtle greens make it very tricky, and The R&A obviously knowing that the conditions were going to be good made them even more trickier.  
   
 Q.   They didn't protect them too much, though?  
LUKE DONALD:   No, people are scoring decent.   I guess if you were a betting man and didn't know where the pins were on a perfect day like today, you would have thought there would be some 65s, 64s out there.   But obviously the pins are tough enough where 2‑ or 3‑under is a pretty good score.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LUKE DONALD:   I'm going to need Adam to come back quite a bit in the next few holes.   Obviously there's a strong wind forecast for tomorrow.   But any more than 6 back is going to be tough to make up, I think.   It would need quite a few people going backwards.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LUKE DONALD:   I could have got it out pretty easy, it was just me trying to get as much yardage on it.   Obviously the pin was at the back.   I could have got it on the front of the green and then probably try and two‑putt.   But I was trying to get it in the middle of the green and give myself a 20‑footer for par.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, again, lipped out that putt.   Where else did I lip out?   Well, I got a good kick, yeah.   I think the guy had a little bit of a sore shoulder, but I gave him a glove to apologise.   But again, I had a chance there.   9, the putt looked like it was going in, just moved out of the hole at the last minute.   It was just one of those days where just couldn't quite get it in.  
Lipped out on 13.   Lipped out on 15.   Lipped out on the last.   So, you know, those putts drop, I shoot 3‑ or 4‑under and it was a solid day and then there or thereabouts.  
   
 Q.   What's your mindset for tomorrow?   
LUKE DONALD:   Go out there and enjoy it.   I'm probably too far back to have a chance, but as always, I'll give a go out there, give it my all.   You never know when you're going to learn something, even though you don't have a chance to win.   Try and see how good I control the ball in the wind.  
   
 Q.   Was there lots of baby talk out there?  
LUKE DONALD:   Surprisingly not too much.   He only spent a day with little Georgina, but he was certainly beaming when he walked in the door this morning.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LUKE DONALD:   That's just golf.   That's just golf.   I mean, again, certainly I think I've hit the ball well enough today, this week, to have a chance.   It just kind of hasn't really happened on the greens.   Certainly not through technique, just sometimes you need a little bit of rub of the green, and that certainly didn't happen the last three days on the greens.  
   
 Q.   Does the score surprise you just a little bit given the difficulty?  
LUKE DONALD:   What is he today?   3‑under?   2‑under?   Well, a lot of the good scoring was done on the first two rounds.   Today no one's really gone too low, I don't think.   Zach?   Zach Johnson, maybe 3‑ or 4‑under.   It just shows, you know, that the pin locations are tricky, despite perfect conditions it's tough to get the ball in the hole.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LUKE DONALD:   I'm getting closer.   My record isn't that great in this championship.   But I'll take some confidence from the last few days.   Certainly after the disaster at the U.S. Open, this is much improvement.   And I said, I'll walk away from this week knowing that my game is good enough.   It just needed to happen at the right time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT