THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Even par round.   Can you give us an assessment of the day?
LUKE DONALD:   It was one of those days where I felt like I played pretty solid.   I hit a lot of good drives, some pretty solid irons.   Hit a lot of greens.   Didn't get a lot out of it on the greens, and obviously that last hole leaves a bit of a bitter taste in my mouth.   Still it's hopefully a round I can build off.   It's an improvement from obviously the last major.   And looking forward to hopefully going out in the morning and getting some good conditions and making a few birdies.

Q.   Can you talk about how the conditions affected this round at all?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think the afternoon guys got it a little bit tougher.   The wind certainly picked up.   We had a little bit of‑‑ it wasn't heavy rain, but it was annoying rain.
The wind died the last couple of holes, but it was certainly a little bit tougher.   I saw a few shots from the morning round, and it looked very, very calm.
That's pretty much expected.   Hopefully that's the same tomorrow for the morning guys and the afternoon guys.

Q.   What's the best thing you take from today?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think mentally I was in a good place.   I felt like I wasn't getting too much ahead of myself.   I hit a lot of very solid shots today.   I didn't get as much out of it as I would have liked.   One birdie.   But really it was kind of an easy 70.   It wasn't one I was getting up‑and‑down and really struggling with.   And if I continue to do that, I know the putts will start to drop and I can make a few birdies. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LUKE DONALD:   I was, yeah.   That was a very straightforward‑‑ I had a pretty smooth 7‑iron from 155 into a slight wind, and I should have had a 10‑footer for birdie there, and I just totally came off it.   That was by far my poorest shot of the day.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, as I said if I had just holed a few putts, I could have got a few more out of that.   But again, it was very workmanlike.   I didn't make too many mistakes.   Probably could have tried‑‑ probably could have hit it closer on a few holes.   But it was satisfying ball‑striking.   I'll take the way that was. 
If I could do that the next few days, I'm sure I'll create a few more birdies with the putter.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LUKE DONALD:   I didn't really think about that.   I thought about trying to play a round in a major without making a bogey.   Maybe ‑‑ it was disappointing to obviously not do that after a pretty good tee shot on 18, to hit a poor shot like that and to miss the putt was disappointing.   But other than that I was just trying to play one shot at a time. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, and off the tee I was very solid.   I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.   That's what you have to do around a place like this.   Pars sometimes win U.S. Opens, sometimes they win Opens.   Hopefully, again, I get the better conditions tomorrow and I can shoot somewhere in the 60s.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LUKE DONALD:   I haven't spoken to him yet.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LUKE DONALD:   Well, you know, it's human nature to focus on that one bad shot, but I hit a lot of really good shots, so I'll think about all those good ones I hit today and go forward from here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT