ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Those last two holes made a bit of a difference to how you've come off the course?  
LUKE DONALD:   Well, nice to finish with a couple birdies.   I played just as good as I did yesterday.   Just a little cold with the putter.   I couldn't quite make some birdies when I needed to.   Probably two or three putts was the difference from today's round to yesterday.   
But I played just as well.   It was very stress‑free.   Didn't have ‑‑ wasn't really fighting out there, but could have hit it a little bit closer.   Yeah, a nice finish, and only three back.   
   
 Q.   Two birdies in the first couple of holes and two right at the end, does it get frustrating, 14 holes in the middle, you had a couple of chances, and battling through?  
LUKE DONALD:   It does, but you've got to stay patient and you've got to know that this course does offer some opportunities, especially in reasonably benign conditions.   
Just keep plugging away and keep giving yourself chances.   I knew some would fall at the end and made a nice putt on 17, and hit a great second shot to 18.   Yeah, just about staying patient, and I'm only three back.   I'm in a good spot.  
   
 Q.   What kind of test do you want over the weekend?   Do you want the rain and the wind or do you prefer flat calm and good scoring conditions?   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I'm not sure about the rain.   Even though it's a likely possibility for next week.   
But it would be nice to play in a little bit of wind.   I've been working hard on the game, and if I can test it out in a little bit windy conditions, just see how the ball‑striking is, that will give me a little bit of a better feel for where I am for next week.   
   
 Q.   And you said yesterday, you were playing not 100 percent, and looking for a couple of things but it was good to be in that frame of mind coming to next week; are you closer today than yesterday?   
LUKE DONALD:   I think I am.   I'm getting closer.   Every time you put in the time and the effort on the range, you've gained a little bit.   I'm certainly getting that way.   I feel like for sure, those last four or five holes, hit some really good tee shots and felt a bit more in control of it.   I could feel the strike in the ball.   The control is getting a bit closer.   It's not quite there but it's getting closer.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT