BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good start to your defence, 68 today, good playing from you and indeed your playing partners today?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, we all got a bit of a roll early on.   We made a few birdies early, and it's always nice when you get in a groove like that, that you can feed off each other.   Sometimes when it goes the other way, it can be tough.   But today we all were playing pretty well and yeah, good, solid start for me.   I was happy with that round.

Q.   How special is this championship to you, because it meant so much‑‑ you achieved so much 12 months ago going to No. 1 and really kick started a magical season for you?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, even before winning last year, I think I had always loved coming to this event, just because it was almost like a home event, home way from home I suppose, I grew up just down the road, always have a good number of family and friends following me around this week. 
Obviously when I won last year and what it meant to me winning, but also getting to No. 1, even went up higher in my estimation.   So obviously I've enjoyed it here.   I've played nicely the last couple of years and hopefully that form is continuing.

Q.   How confident do you feel about where this opening round has put you? 
LUKE DONALD:   It's a great, solid round.   This course is not easy.   It's tough.   They gave us a little bit of a break today.   I think they put some water on the greens last night.   The balls were holding a little bit more than they were on Wednesday.   But certainly as the week goes on, I think the forecast is still going to be pretty good.   If they get the greens going firm, it's going to be tough. 
But you know, I'm going to try to feed off all the positive thoughts I've had around here the last couple years. 

Q.   What was it like out there today? 
LUKE DONALD:   Well, this is never easy, this golf course.   I think they gave us a little bit of a break just by putting some water on the greens last night.   The greens were certainly softer than they were when I played yesterday in the Pro‑Am, so you could be a little bit more aggressive into the greens, and to be honest, I was pretty pleased with my round, six birdies, I came a little bit unstuck around the turn, but stuck in there and played a solid round today. 

Q.   Today being the first round of a title you want to defend, is that a very good round? 
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I've been getting off to low starts, especially in the U.S., so it's nice to throw in a good round on Thursday to start the tournament off.   I think it always becomes a little bit easier if you can start off well on Thursday. 
Today was important to do that.   As I said, I haven't been getting off to quick starts and today was much more important for me to post some birdies early on. 

Q.   How would you assess playing conditions of the course?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, obviously the ball is flying.   The course is not playing as long as it usually would, and they put some water on the greens I think last night.   So they were a little bit softer than they were, certainly yesterday afternoon when I was playing the Pro‑Am. 
But this place is still tricky.   You have to be on guard on every shot, and it's certainly not an easy golf course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT