ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 29, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Luke, only one bogey in the final 54 holes.   Well played last three days.
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   The last 54 holes is very pleasing.   You know, I got off to a slow start and that was the difference this week.   It was a little too much to catch up.on today's round. 
Very happy with how I played and last few rounds and good momentum going into The Players Championship, which is my next.

Q.   John McClaren was watching scoreboards down the stretch.   Did he tell you at any point we're actually in this thing or did you ever feel that you were really in it?
LUKE DONALD:   I kind of kept my head down.   I looked at the scoreboard on 15, I knew I was 3 back.   I knew I needed to probably birdie the last three.   It was tough.   17 especially, it's a tough hole, and 16 isn't that easy, either.   Yeah, no complaints.   I played well.   I just didn't get off to a quick enough start.

Q.   You're No. 1 again.
LUKE DONALD:   It's a nice consolation, going back and forth a little bit.   Rory's turn next week at Quail Hollow.   Chance to get it back.

Q.   Maybe your chance again in Jacksonville.   Good luck to you.
LUKE DONALD:   Thank you.

Q.   How about being No. 1, Luke?   Good feeling?
LUKE DONALD:   It's always a nice feeling.   It's a consolation this week.   Obviously a slow start for me but, you know, this is the third time getting back to No. 1.   It wasn't really on my mind that much like the first time I was able to get to No. 1.   But certainly very proud of being No. 1 and we'll have to see.   Rory's turn is next week to try and get it back.

Q.   How did you play today?   What went well for you?
LUKE DONALD:   I just played within myself.   This course, there's obviously some opportunities.   I took them when I needed to.   Starting to feel a little bit more comfortable with my short game, making some more putts and just keeping the putts.

Q.   Take into consideration being No. 1, was that in the back of your mind a little bit?
LUKE DONALD:   It was a little bit of motivation to try and play well today.   The main focus was trying to win the tournament.

Q.   Here with the No. 1 again, Luke Donald. 
All told, tell me about the way you played here.   You thought that 65 might do it again.   Was that maybe too short of a number you were thinking about earlier?
LUKE DONALD:   I shot 67.   I made one bogey in the last 54 holes.   I can't complain about my last three rounds.   I got off to a slow start and playing catch up.   Fortunately the guys ahead didn't make too many mistakes.   Consolation is going back to No. 1.

Q.   Obviously it's a different feeling going back to No. 1 when you won at Transitions.   Tell me how much motivation, how much, you know, satisfaction you get out of ascending back to No. 1.
LUKE DONALD:   I think, you know, personally, yeah, I want to try and be No. 1.   That's always your goal.   I'm in a position to try and do that.   It's nice to come in here and do that.   I need to get back there.   Wasn't a win but still, it was a good solid week and I moved forward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT