ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, it was just a solid round.   I think, you know, just ruined kind of a little slow start on Thursday.   13-under for the last 36 holes, which is very pleasing and playing a lot better. 
Back here in the mix a little bit.   Only 3 back right now.   Have to see where the lead is up to.   Certainly got an outside chance of hopefully catching them tomorrow.
Q.   Does it feel like today was a day you could continue to score with the conditions or --
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   You know, I played here last year and the course was a little more fiery.   I think the greens are holding a little bit better. 
I think some of the tees are being pushed up.   I think, you know, they're setting up the course where you can make some birdies.   The weather conditions are pretty good and the wind has been in a very similar direction three days.
So, you know, the guys out here, you give them a few days learning the course, they're going to get, get to grips with it.   You're seeing quite a few low numbers out there.

Q.   I noticed on 17 there's kind of a tricky pin placement.   Everybody is kind of going out to the right, you know, on that par 3 and keeping it out there.
LUKE DONALD:   It's pretty strong wind off the right and, you know, just trying to aim to the right, let the wind bring it back, but we all didn't hit great shots there.   That's only a 7-iron.   We should be hitting a green with a 7-iron. 
That water sneaks in on the left and you just slightly get it left of your starting line and you're going to be wet.   So, obviously, the chip from the right wasn't too hard.   We all made 3.

Q.   The hazard right up to the 18th tee, did you not see that, that little reptile crossing?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   Yeah.   Saw a big one in Hilton Head, did the same thing, crossing from pond to pond, you know.   You kind of see that thing down here in the South. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT