ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Difference between yesterday and today?  
LUKE DONALD:   I went on a nice little run with birdieing 18, holed a 7-iron from 150 on the 1st, chipped in on the 2nd from the front of the green and made the nice, nice 2 on 3.   
Obviously yesterday it was a little bit untidy with the few irons shots.   I hit 3 balls in the water yesterday.   Aside from the ball striking, it wasn't that different other than that little run, you know, a lot more encouraging.   I felt like I've been very close the last few weeks.   Nice to finally post a low number.  
   
 Q.   The back-9 playing just a little bit longer here to get going on the back?  
LUKE DONALD:   Certainly this morning -- you know the wind didn't really pick up until 16, walking off 16 tee and it starts to pick up a little bit so I had a good 6 holes without any breeze and made a couple birdies.   
Certainly when the wind picks up it makes it a little tougher and in general probably the back-9 may be half a stroke easier.  
   
 Q.   Looked like on 7 and 8 a little indecision with the wind.   Was it swirling a lot?  
LUKE DONALD:   Well, it was certainly -- certain holes the trees block it and you know the wind is up there.   On 7 I had 118.   I hit sand iron 110 but a little bit of helping wind.   It was the right club in the end.  
But, yeah, it's certainly not quite as breezy as it was yesterday afternoon.   I don't know if I got the unlucky one.   But it's nice to post a low number and get back into the mix.  
   
 Q.   Talk about working with Patrick this week.  
LUKE DONALD:   I worked mostly on the short game, just a little bit of fundamentals in my swing but mostly fundamentals on my short game.   I've not been tidy enough around the greens when I missed the greens.   
I haven't made, I felt for me, enough putts when I had opportunities and just focused on that.   That's always the key to me playing well and scoring well.  
   
 Q.   Is this a course where you have more putts off the green rather than --  
LUKE DONALD:     Occasionally.   A lot of time the bermuda grows into it, it makes it tricky.   You got to have really good technique and confidence in yourself that you can pull out a lob wedge and play that shot.   A lot of the guys I've seen so far are grabbing it.  
   
 Q.   Any disappointment as far as not birdieing 7 and 8?  
LUKE DONALD:   A little bit.   You know, 7 is really -- is very reachable.   I pulled my tee shot there and had some issues with the tree on the backswing for my second shot.   I had to lay up.   I had a good.   I had good putts at 7 and 8 from about 10, 15 feet and would have loved to have made one or two of those.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you played yourself back into the tournament now?  
LUKE DONALD:   Certainly.   We'll see what the guys do this afternoon but I don't know -- what is it, 10 at the moment?   You know, four shots is very doable.  
   
 Q.   World Ranking formula will again give you a chance to get back to No. 1, Top 7 or better.   Rory is not here.  
LUKE DONALD:   Is that what it is?   That's the first time I heard that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT