MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LUKE DONALD:   Well, regardless of how I played, I'll leave disappointed this week.   It wasn't what I wanted.   As I said yesterday, it's not a nice feeling waking up knowing whatever you shoot is probably not going to be good enough.   But I'll also leave with some positive feelings after today's round.   I played nicely today.   68 I think is my lowest round around here, or tied for the lowest round.   It's good memories to try and think of rather than some of the golf that was a little bit‑‑ it wasn't tidy enough the first three days.   
   
 Q.   Can you take us through the eagle?   
LUKE DONALD:   15, right.   I hit a driver and a 3‑wood just pin high right.   I used that shot that I was talking about in the media with the driver, tipped it up‑‑ I don't know what you want to call it, bump‑and‑run with the driver, and it came out perfectly, rolled in good speed, and I used it on 18, too, and hit it to a foot.   Maybe I should have used it a bit more earlier.  
   
 Q.   30 feet or how long was it, the one that went in?  
LUKE DONALD:   It was a little bit more than that.   Yeah, 30, 40 feet.  
   
 Q.   Is that the first time you used it in competition?  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, and I probably would have used it before.   The only one place I could have used it was probably 8 when I made that double bogey.   But if I have an opportunity to land a lob wedge on the green, then I'll take that shot every time.   But two shots on 18 and 15, I didn't have that option, so it was the right shot to try.   
   
 Q.   Do you write it off as golf that you weren't able to bring your best play in the first three rounds, or is there something to learn from this?  
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think you always learn.   You probably learn more from not playing well then you do playing well.   You know, there's so small a margins out here at Augusta.   I think that's the difference between majors and normal events.   The margins are so small, you just can't get away with it as much.   Obviously I've got to work on being able to bring the game that I play at normal tournaments to the majors.   I'm getting closer each time.   It just takes more and more experience.  
   
 Q.   Regardless of what people say about a world No.1 without a major, what does it mean to you?   Is it sort of undermining you?   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think regardless of ranking I should be contending.   I feel like my game is good enough.   Obviously my game was good enough to get me to No.1.   Obviously that's my focus in my career right now is to get myself into contention and win the big ones.   Yeah, it's always disappointing when I don't do it.   
   
 Q.   Can you take that approach into your first round?  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, again, you learn.   You leave here with more positive feelings obviously going into next week.   But I'll remember that round hopefully next year, and even Thursday when it comes to Olympic in a couple months.   But yeah, I think I'm getting closer.   It took me a while to learn how to win on the PGA Tour and the European Tour and win consistently.   I think it's the same with majors.   It's a different level, and it's just taking me a little bit of time to figure it out.   
   
 Q.   You were tired going into the U.S. Open last year.   What's different about preparation this time?  
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I played four in a row with the Memorial being the fourth.   This year I'll play THE PLAYERS, week off, Wentworth and Memorial.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT