MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LUKE DONALD:   I had a 3‑iron into 13 and thought I had a decent shot, missed by carrying by two inches, otherwise it would have been 30 feet away for an eagle, only I make 7.   That's how this course is sometimes.   You can be just a little off.
Same thing on 14.   I drilled a 5‑iron right of the pin, it goes another three, four feet, I've got a ten‑footer for birdie, it rolls down the hill 45 feet away and I three‑putt.   It's just been one of those weeks where I haven't played that badly.   I've probably driven it as well as I've ever driven it around here.   My iron game has not been sharp enough and certainly my short game has not been very good. 

Q.   Talk about the eagle on 3. 
LUKE DONALD:   3, yeah.   I had 80 yards, hit lob wedge and spun it nicely back down the hill into the hole.

Q.   Do you think at that point this could be the day when I get back into it?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, at that point I'm seven behind, and with great conditions and pretty fresh greens, if I can just‑‑ four more birdies and 2‑ or 3‑under for the tournament, and who knows what.   Yeah, so that was a nice start for me. 

Q.   When those things happen on the back nine, how difficult is it to keep your calm and try to keep playing your game? 
LUKE DONALD:   Well, it is difficult, because at that point you feel like you've lost your ability to contend on Sunday, and that's always the goal at the majors is to have a chance.   There's nothing worse than making up on Sunday and knowing that whatever you do it's not going to be good enough. 

Q.   Regardless of that, do you see any round on this golf course as a valuable experience at Augusta?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I always will keep trying my hardest until the very end, and tomorrow will be no different.   I'll be going out, and when you get in those situations you learn from those shots.   You certainly learn every time you play a round around here.   There's always something new you pick up. 

Q.   13 was the moment you wrote off the week then really?
LUKE DONALD:   I suppose so, yeah.   I have a chance to make a 4 or 3 there and get back to 2‑over or 1‑over, maybe pick up a couple more and get into red numbers, and I end up making a 7.   That was it probably. 

Q.   Just tell me what happened again with your second shot into the green. 
LUKE DONALD:   I hit a 3‑iron, just pushed it three or four yards, but I thought I had plenty to carry, and it just caught the top of the edge of the grown and kicked right into the creek.

Q.   You were so confident coming in here this week.   Do you just feel totally flat now? 
LUKE DONALD:   I feel a bit flat right now, obviously.   Yeah, I had high hopes and high expectations for this week, and they haven't panned out.

Q.   Not a lot of guys have a lot going out there.   Why do you think the course is playing so difficult?
LUKE DONALD:   I don't really know.   You know, nothing has really changed.   The greens are actually probably a little softer than usual.   I'm not really sure why people aren't really going low.   I feel like it's no harder than usual. 

Q.   Were you surprised by the fact that you and other guys aren't going lower?
LUKE DONALD:   I am a little bit surprised.   Conditions have been reasonably favorable for us this week.   A few new hole locations, but other than that, I can't really think of why the scores are so bunched.

Q.   Nothing about your buildup you would change the last couple of weeks?
LUKE DONALD:   I mean, I'll have to think about it, but I certainly felt very ready when I came in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT