WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2016
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Luke, another solid week.  Solo second as you finish 16-under par.  Your thoughts on how things went today.  
LUKE DONALD: I played pretty solidly today.  I didn't quite get it in the fairway quite enough to be able to attack enough pins and really put some pressure own Si.   
He looked like he was very much in control of his game and he was going to be a hard man to catch.  Lot of positives from this week and good time heading into the Playoffs to find in form.   
 Q.  You started 99th and now you're 48th in the FedExCup standings.  That set you up for the first couple of tournaments pretty well.  
LUKE DONALD: I didn't realize my jump was going to be that extreme.  That's great news.  Obviously play with a little bit more freedom and go out there and hopefully keep playing the way I played this week.   
 Q.  Thoughts on Bethpage Black.  That's a big golf course.  
LUKE DONALD: Big golf course.  Hopefully it's not too wet and we get some dry conditions and -- but I remember finishing 18th there in 2002 U.S. Open, a long time ago but I'll figure my way around it.   
 Q.  Congratulations on the week.  Good luck in The Playoffs.  
LUKE DONALD: Thank you.   
 Q.  Thanks.  With Luke.  Great week you're able to put together here in the Wyndham Championship.  How would you assess your day?  
LUKE DONALD: It was a solid day.  I didn't hit enough fairways to attack some of the pins, especially on front.  You're trying to control the jump out out of the rough.  It's difficult.   
Si looks like he was playing a very consistent game, just making lots of birdies and making it tough on us so in the end it looked like on the back-9 we were kind of playing for 2nd.   
 Q.  Given how your summer had gone, to have an event like this in the regular season going into the Playoffs, what does that do for you as far as where you are?  
LUKE DONALD: It's huge.  I think I made a big jump here, almost 50 spots.  You know, that's a big deal.  It sets me up for the next couple events so I'll continue the momentum into New York next week.   
 Q.  What's the carryover with your game as far as what was clicking that you can try and use in The Playoffs?  
LUKE DONALD: Certainly my iron play was really strong.  I hit I think -- I was right up there this week with the irons.  Great -- gave myself a lot of opportunities for birdie.  Didn't have to scramble too much and good iron play was the big key this week.   
 Q.  Talk about your round today.  
LUKE DONALD: A solid round.  Off to a nice start with birdie on 1.  Tried to get off to a quick start.  3-under through the front-9 was good but looked like Si behind us was playing solid golf and he was always going to be hard to catch.   
So, nice to finish 2nd and looked like on the back-9 we were kind of playing for 2nd, Si was playing that well.   
 Q.  How tough is it?  I mean you played so well (inaudible.)  
LUKE DONALD: It's tough.  You keep battling and trying to give yourself chances.  I didn't hit enough fairways today.  I was always judging the jump out of the rough which makes it tough to get it close, but happy with the way I grinded it out, especially on the back-9.   
 Q.  What's the mentality coming into the day when you know he's got such a lead?  
LUKE DONALD: You hope to get off to a fast start and put some pressure on him.  It's never easy leading from the front but he seems to cope with it extremely well.  Hats off to him.   
 Q.  The rain delay, did that change everything to go back out there?  
LUKE DONALD: It's always harder to stop and start.  It changes your momentum a little bit but certainly, you know, I think we're all used to it.  We're all prepared, we're professionals, we get to do a lot.   
 Q.  Did things play differently --  
LUKE DONALD: I only had one hole to play.  I didn't have to do too much.  It really didn't change much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT