TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LUKE DONALD:   My game is close, I'm really hitting decent shots but I'm not quite there.   I'm hoping that it can just all click into place a little bit better on the weekend and make a good run. 

Q.   How are you able to remain patient in today's round?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, John probably gave me a bitof help;   I was a little bit upset on 17 tee.   I hit a poor putt on 16 and had a good chance at birdie there.   He said, just control your thoughts.   Don't think about what you can't do.   That was a good tip that got me back on the right path.

Q.   Is the course playing any different than the first round?
LUKE DONALD:   Not really.   It's playing where you can make a score, the greens are soft and I think there was a bit of rain even last night.   The greens are soft, not too much wind and plus the conditions, really, if you're going to go low like Paddy did yesterday and today, were good days to do it. 

Q.   Luke, you really turned your round around on your second nine, getting a birdie on No. 1 and then rolling off three straight, four out of five.   What clicked for you during that period of time?
LUKE DONALD:   I was struggling taking my chances on my front side.   And just I think I was a little too stroke conscious.   I was getting wrapped up in stuff I've been working on and I started concentrating on trying to hole the putts.   I switched that around after nine and made four really nice putts and birdies in five holes.   That was a big turnaround. 

Q.   You can get to No. 1 by winning this week, that's official, but you have to win this week even to worry about it; is slow and steady good enough on this golf course this week, or is the Copperhead playing easy enough that you have to be a little more aggressive? 
LUKE DONALD:   Usually slow and steady works.   It's worked for me the last couple years.   Obviously this is a course that predominately isn't that low scoring.   Obviously conditions are pretty perfect for scoring.   Paddy showed that yesterday.   We'll have to see what he does.   If he goes out and shoots a good number, I'll obviously have to be a little more aggressive on the weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT