WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2016
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you talk about that up and down tee shot on 18 and make par?  
LUKE DONALD: I struggled a little bit visualizing that tee shot.  It was a couple tee shots you don't see them land and 18 is one of them.  I hit a poor tee shot left and had to chip out.  I had a good number with a little wedge, stick it to that pin.  Would have been disappointing to drop one there after playing so well for the rest of the round.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your season and how your game is starting to come into form?  
LUKE DONALD: It's been slow, slow season for me.  Obviously disappointing, not enough consistency.  Had some good patches around April, early May but, you know, it hasn't been consistent that I would like to see in my game but been working extremely hard hard on it and, you know, it's nice the see some form coming into play.   
This is a good time of the year to be playing well and pick up some momentum and hopefully I can have a good FedExCup and you never know.  You keep playing until the end.   
 Q.  Luke, good round today.  Just talk about what went right for you out on the course this afternoon.  
LUKE DONALD: My iron play has been very strong this week.  I've given myself a lot of opportunities for birdie, hitting it within 10, 15 feet on a lot of holes.  I feel like I've kept it in play off the tee quite well around this course, which is quite tight.   
I've been able to control into the greens.  I putted better today.  I putted quite well on the first day.  It's just all around game is coming into play.  Little bit more consistent throughout.   
 Q.  Your finish on 18.  Good to get something like that in your head on the final round?  
LUKE DONALD: I was have been disappointed to walk off with a bogey or something even worse after playing so well and it was a poor tee shot.  Took my medicine and hit a great wedge shot to three and a half feet and made the putt down the hill.  Nice to keep that momentum going and hopefully that will carry on till tomorrow.   
 Q.  How would you classify your season to date, how might it change with tomorrow?  
LUKE DONALD: The season so far has been disappointing for me, you know.  It's been a couple decent patches but not near enough, consistent enough that I would consider, you know, good golf for me.   
But I've been working very hard on my game.  I feel like I've been seeing a lot of progress away from tournaments, it's not quite carrying over to events but it's nice to pick up some momentum this week and hopefully good solid day tomorrow even have a chance to win.   
And it just takes one good week out here to really change a season around.  This is as good a time as ever to get going, especially with The Playoffs just about to start.   
 Q.  Do you know where you go to in the Ryder Cup rankings if you win tomorrow?  
LUKE DONALD: I have no idea.  I haven't been paying too much attention.  I haven't been that close so I haven't looked.  Hopefully if I can win tomorrow I'll catch some.  Obviously I'll bring a lot of experience, I think the best record in European history as a player.  So, I'd love to hopefully have the option but I need to finish strongly.  I need to win probably tomorrow and I probably need to have a good chance to win in Barclays to have a chance, I would think.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT