ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 26, 2012
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You must be fairly happy with that.   Haven't seen you for a month; what did you do for Christmas?
LUKE DONALD:   Just at home with the family and enjoying off time while we can.   It's a busy season to nice to get time at home. 

Q.   You don't get much bigger three balls than that out there today.   What was it like to be a part of that?
LUKE DONALD:   It was fun to be part of that threesome.   Tiger and Rory are huge names in the world of sport and golf.   We all played pretty well today.   We hit the ball pretty nicely.   Obviously Rory took advantage of a few more opportunities than Tiger and I, but a solid day for all of us. 

Q.   You're quite a large name in golf‑‑
LUKE DONALD:   I'm getting there.   But no, it was fun to be a part of that and looking forward to tomorrow.

Q.   They made a few changes around this course.   What do you think makes it more difficult this year, because the scoring is not as good as I thought it was going to be?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I played the last couple of days, and I didn't think it was that easy.   We obviously had better conditions today; no wind.   Yesterday was pretty windy out there. 
But the fairways are narrow.   The rough is extremely thick.   Often you get in the rough and you can't get to the greens and obviously both Tiger and I really didn't make too many putts out there, either. 
So you know, you really have to keep it in play. 

Q.   The rough is a lot thicker than last year, isn't it, and going out early in the morning, a bit wet, as well? 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, I haven't been here for a few years.   I didn't remember it being this thick the last time I played here, but certainly if you can hit it in the fairways, it's a big advantage this week. 

Q.   What are your goals this year?   You reached some fantastic targets last year.   Let us into a little secret, what are you goals? 
LUKE DONALD:   Keep progressing and keep improving.   I felt like there are certain parts of my game that still have a little bit of work to do, and you know, hopefully that will lead to some more victories. 

Q.   You had some time now in the off‑season with the family; how did you spend the time and did you enjoy looking back to what you achieved in 2011? 
LUKE DONALD:   Certainly.   2011 was my greatest, best year so far on Tour.   I enjoyed it with the family, kind of sat down and took stock of what I had achieved and it was a nice, enjoyable Christmas.   It was nice to have a few weeks off.   It's a busy, busy year, but it was nice to have a little bit of family time. 

Q.   Tell us about your pairing today; going to be the same pairing tomorrow obviously.   How was it playing with Rory and Tiger? 
LUKE DONALD:   It was a lot of fun.   I think between us we hit a lot of solid shots today.   You know, Tiger and I didn't take as many opportunities on the greens.   Rory played some nice golf, too.   It was a great threesome to be a part of. 

Q.   Is the course playing more difficult than the previous years?
LUKE DONALD:   I would think so.   Obviously I know Martin shot light‑out last year and was 24‑under or something winning.   But the last two days, before day, I didn't see that as a winning score.   The fairways are narrow, the rough is pretty tight.   It's a pretty good golf course.   Even in good conditions today, it's not easy to create too many birdie opportunities. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT