DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
December 9, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   1‑under for the championship with three holes left of the second round to go and you finish birdie, birdie, birdie; how valuable can that be?   
LUKE DONALD:   I think personally just in terms of my mental approach for the next couple of days, that was huge.   It was still a struggle today.   I've been making a few kind of uncharacteristic mistakes, not sure what that is down to, maybe just the situation of what's at stake this week.   
But yeah, to make three birdies in a row will make lunch taste great, and hopefully make the next two days a little easier.  
   
 Q.   You've been saying all week that you want to focus on your own game and not think about the scenario but it's getting into your mind, is it?   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, it was certainly a lot of pressure there.   I know what's at stake, and that's fine.   It's just that I've got to handle it.   I'm making a little bit too many unforced errors and I need to play the weekend like Luke Donald knows how to play.  
   
 Q.   You went to the range last evening to find something; how was it there and did you find anything and was it better today?  
LUKE DONALD:   My coach, Pat, looked at the coverage last night and just looked like some of those tee shots I was getting a little bit rushed, a little bit hurried starting the swing with my legs too much and not quite being patient enough.   Just worked on that, and for the most part, kept it out of the scrub today.   I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and a lot of good things to build on.   You struggle to hole some putts early on, but it was nice to hole some at the end there.  
   
 Q.   We don't know what the leader will have on his scorecard tonight as play resolves, but what will your tactics be over the weekend?   Do you play more aggressively, take a few chances?   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think I just play like I usually play, to create as many birdie opportunities as I can.   This course definitely lends itself to making some birdies.   I think Louis had eight today.   I think I had five.   You can make birdies out there.   But you know, being sensible, just minimising those mistakes.  
   
 Q.   Will you be checking Rory's score later on?   
LUKE DONALD:   I'll know what everyone's at and I'll know what I need to do.   
   
 Q.   That was a tremendous finish that must have really raised your spirits?  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, for sure.   I kind of got stuck in the middle of the round there.   I started off quite nicely again, a bit of a slow start with a bogey on the first, but after that, played nicely again, and you know, just from‑‑ it was kind of a 3‑putt from the fringe on 8.   Just couldn't get the ball quite close enough, couldn't make the putts when I gave myself opportunities.   I just wasn't going anywhere.   
It was nice to finish off with a flurry there and to find a little bit of touch on the greens, I think that will be key for the next couple of days.  
   
 Q.   Was it difficult not to let frustration get the better of you in a sense?   
LUKE DONALD:   I was frustrated out there.   I tried to stay as patient as I can.   I tried to just go out there and enjoy it and know that it's just a game, but it's tough.   There's a lot at stake, and you know, I want to do my best and obviously try to finish off what I came here to do.   
You know, it was a little bit frustrating at times, but certainly those last three birdies brought a smile to my face.  
   
 Q.   What happened between rounds to sort of straighten you out, particularly off the tee.   
LUKE DONALD:   I spoke to my coach through some e‑mail and text messaging.   He watched the coverage and just thought I was getting a little bit quick on those swings, a little bit impatient.   I tend to‑‑ when I hit those shots left or right, I tend to get the body moving too quickly.   Just need to be a bit more patient and hit a lot more fairways and greens today.  
   
 Q.   And in a different sense, patience was ultimately rewarded with those three birdies at the end.   That kind of thing; when that happens for you, must do wonders for the confidence.   
LUKE DONALD:   For sure.   I'm going to need to be even more patient on the weekend.   But try and get rid of those mistakes.   I'm making a few too many errors the first couple of days.   If I can go back to the kind of golf that got me here in the first place, then I should be fine.   
   
 Q.   How much are you relishing the challenge of the next two days?   
LUKE DONALD:   Yes, nervous excitement.   I'm looking forward to it but it's going to be a tough challenge.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT