CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 23, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Okay, like to welcome the 2011 Children's Miracle Network Hospitals Classic, Luke Donald. World's No. 1, and fast approaching history-making No. 1 player money winner on the PGA Tour as well as the European Tour.   
 Just an amazing year for you, capped off with an amazing week here and an amazing day today. Just some thoughts on how you're feeling as we wind this Sunday down.   
 LUKE DONALD: It's hard to put into words. You know, obviously I came here and I told you guys on Wednesday that the goal was to win. You know, nothing was really going to be good enough other than that.   
 You know, I think this is probably one of the most satisfying wins of my career just because of that. It was kind of do or die. Obviously it wasn't looking great after the 8th hole, but I knew I was going to get on to a run.   
 I didn't play my best golf throughout the week. I knew that something good was want to happen. Just kept plugging away. Obviously to birdie the first six holes on the back nine was the difference this week. Threw a few shots away carelessly throughout the first few days, but this means a lot.   
 Obviously, you know, to do it when I needed to, to know that under pressure I was able to pull off the shots when I needed to to hole the putts, you know, and obviously to get ahead of Webb on the Money List and win this event.   
 This is obviously the first stroke-play event I've won in the U.S. for five years, too, which is pretty special. It's just knowing that I had to do it and being able to do it, and all of it kind of went along with, you know, picking up the first place. It's very, very special.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. I'm not sure anybody has told you yet, but Diane tweeted that all this jumping up and down cannot be good for the baby.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, on the range, you know, my agent, John, was reading a couple of her tweets to me and trying to keep everything lighthearted. Yeah, that's the first thing I thought about. Hopefully all this excitement hasn't brought on an early labor.   
  Yeah, hopefully she'll hold on another couple of weeks and everything will go smoothly. It's not the end of my year, but it somewhat feels that way just because I've got a possible five-week break coming up. This will be a nice way to enjoy that break.   
  Q. Also, just because you felt you hadn't really had your run yet, when you had the two in a row and hit it to five feet or whatever on 11, did you feel that maybe this was the one?  
 LUKE DONALD: If you're going to make a run, that's the place on the course you need to make a run on. I did everything right. You know, the swing kind of clicked in. I was proud that I didn't hit any of those wayward drives that were causing some issues in the first few days. I was able to hit the shots when the pressure got even more.   
 You know, obviously that putt on 15 was a bonus. Webb holed one on me on the 9th, and it was nice to get that one in.   
  
  Q. Two things: What did Webb say to you on the 18th green?  
 LUKE DONALD: Just, Congrats. Well done. You deserve it. You've played great. I told him the same. Whatever happens - you know, obviously tournament wasn't over by then -- I said, Whatever happens, we both had great years and should both be proud.  
  
  Q. How would you rate this compared with Wentworth, which was obviously a bigger tournament and you beat the No. 1 player in the world in a playoff to get to No.1.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, obviously different circumstances. It's hard to compare them. You know, in a way, there was a little bit more on the line this week. You know, obviously I felt like if I hadn't won Wentworth, I felt I was playing well enough that I would have got to No. 1 in the world at some point.   
 Obviously winning Wentworth was a huge event and it meant a great deal to me. But I think having this amount on the line this week and coming up and shooting 30 on the back nine on Sunday, finding the shots when I needed to, you know, really will mean a lot to me and to all the people that I work with.   
  
  Q. You spoke about how well you did in on back nine. What was your thought process as you realized you were creeping up the leaderboard and were eventually at the top?  
 LUKE DONALD: Again, just looking for that one run to get on to. You know, Lordy, my caddie this week, texted me last night. He says, It's not over yet. We still haven't got on a run. I had made a couple birdies here and there, but had never really gotten a streak of some real momentum building.  
 When I birdied 10, 11, 12, I felt like that run was coming. Obviously the putts on 14 and 15 were huge. You know, those were bonuses. When things are going your way, that tends to happen.  
  
  Q. You mentioned not winning a stroke-play event in the U.S. in five years. How much more satisfying is it for you to not only win, but knew you exactly what you needed to do for the Money List and other possible post-season awards and go out there and do it?  
 LUKE DONALD: Well, you know, I read the media as well. You know, it was pretty clear to me that from what everyone thought, I needed to win this week to be able to sway some people's votes. In terms of Player of the Year, obviously I needed to win -- at the very least to win the Money List.  
 You know, to be able to do that, you know, it's special when it really mattered. I think as golfers, it's nice to win, but much more pleasing when things really mean something a little bit extra.   
  
  Q. Have you heard from any of the other players maybe in the locker rooms, some scuttlebutt going around about, Hey, if you win in week I'm going to vote for you?  
 LUKE DONALD: Not really. A few people wishing me luck. I think it's exciting to be table to do something that one's done officially obviously, and that's win both Money Lists. I had a few players coming up to me and wishing me luck.   
  
  Q. Does it occur to you that in some way and in this area that's obviously built on fantasy, you probably pulled off the biggest fairytale of the year?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, you know, it's a little bit ironic, I suppose, that Donald Duck was handing me the trophy, you know, every morning I was riding into Disneyland. I think the banner says, Where dreams come through or, Where dreams are made.  
 Yeah, you know, doesn't happen very often, the fact that -- I don't know how many shots I was back after nine, but maybe four or five -- and to bring back and eventually win by two, you know, that doesn't happen very often.   
 So Disney is a special place. I suppose if I ever have to bring the children back here, at least it'll have some good memories for me - even if I'm having to wait in all those lines.  
  
  Q. Donald Duck presented the trophy?  
 LUKE DONALD: Both Mickey and Donald. It's about a 60-pound trophy. I nearly dropped it on the green.  
  
  Q. It's kind of an awkward spot to put you in, but given the awards and the Money List and everything else, how would you make a case for someone else?   
 LUKE DONALD: Not sure I could at the moment. I think I've answered everyone's questions. You know, obviously coming into this week I felt like Webb was probably favorite, you know, based on he was ahead of me on the Money List and he was ahead of, e wins this year.   
 Obviously drawn level on wins and I've gotten ahead on money. Feel like I've answered all the questions thrown at me.   
  
  Q. What's next? Goals for the future?   
 LUKE DONALD: Well, actually, I'm very, very excited about my golf. It's been a long year. There's been times where I felt like I've finished runner-up, second, third, fourth, and I really haven't had my best golf by far.   
 Even this week there were times I felt I really struggled. It was by no means perfect golf, yet I was able to find a way to win. I'm very, very excited about next year and even this off-season about trying to improve.   
 You know, there are certain parts of my game that definitely need some improvement. You know, hopefully that will lead to even more wins and more tournament victories.   
  
  Q. Kind of laboring for the words to describe the theatrics after that putt went in on the back nine, the long one. It was a little bit of a squat and the crowd, kind of fist pumped and a yell and a scream. It was a little more animated than we're used to seeing from you. I think at this point you sort of realized that this was doable.   
 LUKE DONALD: Absolutely. You know, even 14 was a huge putt. I probably kept my emotions a little bit more intact there. You don't expect to make -- I don't know how long that was, 50-, 60-foot putt.   
 I had struggled a little bit all week really with the pace of the greens. Even though I putted pretty well from close range, but the long ones struggled in terms pace. That one just dropped in perfectly and, yeah, I showed a little bit of emotion.  
  
  Q. Couple things. Whatever Diane's schedule is, what's your playing schedule after HSBC?  
 LUKE DONALD: Right now, Sun City, Dubai, and Aussie Masters. Three in a row.  
  
  Q. (Question regarding Money List.)  
 LUKE DONALD: Correct.  
  
  Q. With the number of birdies out there, I was wondering if there was one shot that was most pleasing to you.   
 LUKE DONALD: I suppose birdieing 14. I mean, after what happened on days two and three, you know, I was determined to get that ball in the fairway, determined to give myself a birdie look.  
 Standing over it, I remember talking to Steve and a few of the other guys and saying that I was going to make birdie. That motivated me to make that putt, and I think that was a turning point.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 LUKE DONALD: How did they do? Oh, in the fairway, I had 82 yards, I think.   
  
  Q. On the season as a whole, what were your expectations coming into this year and have you met or exceeded them at all?   
 LUKE DONALD: I've met most of my expectations. Certainly, you know, I don't think -- and exceeded them probably. I don't think getting to No. 1 and holding onto it and extending my lead and winning four times now, you know, obviously that's a pretty good year.  
 I didn't expect to play quite that well. But as a player, you always feel that you can do more than you actually are doing. You know, I always believed that I had the ability to have a year like this.   
 As I said, there were times where I didn't have my best golf but I still contended, and that excites me for next year. If I can just sharpen up a little bit here and there, obviously more of those being in contentions will turn into wins.  
 Obviously the only disappointing part of the year I suppose is not winning a major. But I'll keep persevering and giving myself opportunities.  
  
  Q. I have two questions, and the first is: You say that you need to sharpen up certain parts of your game. Which parts? And the other one is: Many sponsors frequently give special bonuses for winning a major, leading. Was it ever mentioned by any of your sponsors that if you're the leading money winner on both tours that you would get a special bonus?  
 LUKE DONALD: Parts of my game, I still think I have some work to do with the driving. You know, I think the most pleasing thing about this week or today really was being able to drive it in the fairway when I needed to the on the back nine. There have been times in the past where I haven't been able to get the ball in the fairway enough under pressure.   
 My long game has certainly improved a lot this year, but I think there is still a little bit more room for improvement. That's what brings me back to the game: you never stop learning, you never stop improving, you never stop working at it. You can get better at all pats of your game, to be honest with you, and I'm looking forward to 2012.  
 In terms of the money bonus, well, I believe one of my sponsors there is a bonus, but I'm not sure.   
  
  Q. Couple for you. Was there ever the slightest chance you weren't going to come here? Were you flipping coins Friday in London?   
 LUKE DONALD: As soon as Webb entered McGladrey I knew I was coming.  
  
  Q. For sure.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Talk about the gratification of knowing that you had to win and getting it done. I can't imagine there have been too many times in your professional or amateur career that you had to beat everybody in the field to get the pot of gold at th end. That just doesn't happen every day.  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, that's why I work hard. That's why I have great people around me that motivate me and to get me in those situations when you do have to come up with the goods when it really counts.   
 You know, I think that's why this is going to be a very special event in my career. Even though it's not a huge event with the best field, but what was on the line made it a big deal to me.   
  
  Q. You and Webb have worked with the same trainers since late last year. You've been the most consistent players out there this year. Talk about what those trainers have done for you, and does conditioning promote that consistency?  
 LUKE DONALD: Certainly. I think you look at our statistics in terms driving dance, hitting the fairway, I think the game has really changed since Tiger really came on board with all the fitness.  
 I think, one, it improves your swing. A lot people's faults in their swing is due to a weakness in your body. If you can improve those weaknesses, it's going to help your swing.   
 Webb's had like something crazy, has added like 12 or 13 yards on his drives. I think I've add four or five yards maybe. Statistics are a little bit misleading. But Ben Shear and Craig Knight who we both work with have done a great job in conditioning us and making sure that we're as ready as we are when it comes to golf and fitness.   
 So it's a big deal. Just last week I met with both of them. We did all our testing and got some new programs for the off-season. Hopefully I'll be in even better shape next year.  
  
  Q. Have you started any of the heavy stuff after the TOUR Championship?   
 LUKE DONALD: I haven't really got into it in full flow. I've done a little bit here and there, but just kind of getting started.   
  
  Q. Lastly, you're leading in Europe about 1.3 million Euros, what have you. Depending on what Rory does in Shanghai if you're not there, would you consider adding one there like you did here, perhaps Singapore if you don't make it?  
 LUKE DONALD: Possibly. I would probably put it in the unlikely right now, but who knows. It would mean a big deal to win both Money Lists. I could potentially swap out MedBank for Hong Kong maybe, but we'll have to see. Right now, my schedule is pretty firm.  
 DOUG MILNE: You made a lot, especially today. Just run us through your birdies and give us some clubs.   
 LUKE DONALD: 3-wood 8-iron to four feet on the 1st first.   
 Driver sand iron to six feet on the 2nd.  
 You want bogeys, too?   
 DOUG MILNE: Sure.  
 LUKE DONALD: 5, drive, 7-iron, chipped it to six feet and missed.   
 6-iron on the sixth hole; made about a 10-foot putt there.  
 Drive and a pitching wedge to about nine feet, 8. A lot of shots here. Drive, rescue into the bunker. Fat bunker shot short of the green; fat chip just onto the edge of the green and two-putt for 6.  
 And then 10, what did I do on 10? Drive and a rescue; chipped it to a foot.   
 11 was 3-wood, wedge to about seven feet.   
 8-iron on the 12th and made a six-footer there.  
 3-iron lob wedge on 13 to about six feet again.  
 14 was drive, 5-iron, lob wedge, and holed about a 20-footer.  
 5-iron on 15, and holed about a 50-footer.   
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Luke, congratulations. We appreciate your time.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT