CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 21, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What would you have liked to have done better?  
 LUKE DONALD: Struggling to find the things I did well today. It wasn't very good. I struggled in kind of all parts of my game unfortunately. Just woke up this morning not feeling great. My energy level, my focus wasn't very good. Struggled off the tee. Just didn't feel very comfortable with it.  
 So hopefully get a good night's rest and feel a bit more recharged tomorrow. I'm going to need to go low on the weekend.  
  
  Q. Do you get a sense of the theatre being played out with the two of you guys playing together the first two days?   
 LUKE DONALD: We're probably going to play together tomorrow as well. As I said, you know, I think it was the right pairing. I think it was great for the sponsor and the TV and all that that goes with it.  
 But to be honest, I've got to beat everyone, not just Webb, and I've got to play better than I did today.   
  
  Q. If the season ended right now, who do you think the Player of the Year is on the PGA Tour?   
 LUKE DONALD: That's a tough one. You know, different ways to look at it. I've done some great things; Webb's done some great things. I think there are maybe a couple other candidates, too. Let's not forget about Keegan winning a major, the rookie, and winning another event as well. So there are different ways to look at it.   
 If it's encapsulates the way you played throughout the world, even just as a PGA Tour player, I think I have a good shot.   
  
  Q. Last one: If either one of you win this week, is it case closed, the argument is over?  
 LUKE DONALD: Well, I think being so close to voting it will sway a lot of people's votes, yes.   
  
  Q. Given that you may not have been at 100% fitness today, do you feel pleased with yourself to actually get round and post a decent score?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, you know, sometimes you've got to fight ugly and play ugly. It was very ugly today. It wasn't very good at all. You know, obviously it's not the hardest course in the world, but I didn't do many things well today.   
 It's disappointing. But, again, sometimes you're going to have rounds like that. I remember at the BMW at Wentworth there was a round that was very similar. Didn't play very well. Kind of ground it out and kind of kept myself there or thereabouts, and hopefully I can do the same.   
 I'm going to have to go pretty low on the weekend. Be nice to shoot a low one tomorrow, get in the mix, and make this one a bit fun for me and fun for everyone else.  
  
  Q. Illnesses this morning?   
 LUKE DONALD: I've always struggled a little bit with sinus infections. Felt a little bit rundown after yesterday's round. Yeah, not 100% healthy, but I should still be able to make some birdies and putts. I'm not going to really blame it on that.  
 Definitely when you're not quite feeling it, you just feel a little bit different in your body and how you swing. I've got to find a bit more confidence for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Bogeying a par-5 on 14 probably hurt. You had one in the water there.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, laying up.  
  
  Q. Bad layup shot?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, rescue club; just pulled it. Today some of my shoots were going left and right, and that's hard to fight against when you're not quite sure which one is going to come out.  
 I suppose when you do get a little bit fatigued, you know, old habits creep into your golf swing. That was probably the case today.  
  
  Q. Was it the artist in you that shaped that second shot at 13 onto the green there? That looked like a little bit of an adventure.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it was a reasonably straightforward chip and run out of the trees. The hard part was getting the right distance, and I did that pretty well. Got a little bit of a fortuitous bounce over the corner of the bunker.   
 Yeah, it would've have been nice to make that. That would have been something.  
  
  Q. Would you have been walking out on mid-field with the coin toss if you were in Chicago?   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I'm not sure if that was part of my duty or not. But, yeah, honorary captain, whatever -- I hasn't got that far as to figure out what my duties were.  
  
  Q. So you were teeing off instead of walking on with Northwestern's quarterback?  
 LUKE DONALD: Correct.  
  
  Q. He might be better than the Northwestern quarterback. He's having a better year. (Laughter.) Do you have to tell yourself not get too anxious when you see the lead creeping up as it was at one stage and you just couldn't seem to get anything going?  
 LUKE DONALD: Well, you know, a little bit. I mean, really trying to focus on hitting good shots myself. You know, when you do struggle, you try and get away a little bit from trying to think in terms of what in my swing I can do to fix it and be a bit more visual and hit shots.  
 I did a little bit better on the last few holes. Hit a few more fairways, few more greens, few better iron shots. But, you know, it was just a struggle. Just one of those days where it was hard work today. 71, could have been a lot worse. You know, I'm still only five back right now.  
 So still in with a chance.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT