CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 20, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You knew what you had to do coming in. You can't win it in the first round, but you put yourself in good position.   
 LUKE DONALD: You know, for most of the round I played a pretty solid round of golf today. Couple loose shots at the end. Wasn't that easy out there. I think the wind was strong enough to make it a little bit tricky with club selection.  
 You know, six birdies, no bogeys is always a good round.  
  
  Q. Certainly the Palm Course a little bit easier than the Mag. Does that put any more pressure on you when you go out there and play it?   
 LUKE DONALD: I suppose, I mean, you would like to make your fair share of birdies and capitalize on the easier place; I think I did that.  
  
  Q. As you go through the rest of the weekend, you'll play the Magnolia Golf Course the next three days. Is that an advantage, do you think, starting on the Palm and finishing on the Magnolia?   
 LUKE DONALD: Probably. You get into a routine. You know, I think playing -- I feel playing in the afternoon is a little bit better. You know, it's a longer golf course, Magnolia, and hopefully I'll be playing afternoon.   
 So, yeah, I think it was a favorable draw.  
  
  Q. Well-played today. Thanks for your time, and good luck the rest of the way.   
 LUKE DONALD: Thanks.    
  
  Q. Take us through your round, Luke.   
 LUKE DONALD: Very solid start. Would have loved to have made a couple more at the end. I didn't hit the ball great the last few holes. Up and through 13 or 14 holes it was very solid indeed.  
 You know, I think you want to capitalize on the slightly easier course, and six birdies and no bogeys was a great start. It wasn't that easy out there. The wind was strong enough to make club selection a little trick, but very satisfied with the start.  
  
  Q. Course in good shape, was it?   
 LUKE DONALD: It was. Greens were rolling nicely; you know, fairways are soft. You're not going to get much roll, so it's playing as long as it could be. Yeah, I think the course is in great shape.  
  
  Q. Webb mentioned that you guys joked around a little bit about the Money List. What did you say to him?  
 LUKE DONALD: He asked when I was having my off-season. I said, Well, it was going to be this week. Thanks for playing the last two weeks. But, yeah, just some lighthearted banter out there.   
 That's fine. Not only do I have to beat Webb, I have to beat the rest of the field. I have to keep my eye on everyone.  
  
  Q. Are you missing a class reunion this weekend?  
 LUKE DONALD: Ten years. Homecoming game against Penn State. I was meant to be the honorary captain at the football game, but hopefully I won't be missed too much.  
  
  Q. What would they have you do there, flip the coin or...  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, motivational speech, you know, that kind of stuff. Work out with 'em every day. (Laughter.) No, I think, yeah, I get to kind of be in the locker room and kind of see what they do. Go out into the field some time.   
  
  Q. You've not done it before, I take it.   
 LUKE DONALD: I've been out on the field once or twice, but not for that role.  
  
  Q. Pretty good grip on American football by now after 10 years over here, 11 years, 14 years, whatever it's been?   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I know the rules pretty well. Northwestern needs to play better in the last quarter. I know that.  
  
  Q. What would you say to them?  
 LUKE DONALD: Just finish strong. They have gotten off to a great start this year and haven't been able to quite finish it off. For a northern school they did pretty well.  
  
  Q. Obviously you want to win every tournament that you play, but is this a little bit different, kind of a different mindset? I mean, you pretty much are here to win. As you said, you can't really do much less than that. Do you approach it any differently?  
 LUKE DONALD: Not really. I mean, that's always the goal. Every time I tee it up, I'm trying to win the event.   
 I think these courses lend itself to being a little bit more aggressive. But, yeah, my style, I feel like I made enough birdies out there anyway for how I approach the game, and it won't be too different.   
 So I don't see it as really a different mindset. It's more of the same.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT