ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Luke, after a disappointing finish to your round yesterday, how excited to come back with a course record 63 at the home of golf? 
 LUKE DONALD: Was that a course record.

 Q. There has been a 62 shot but since the course has been changed, it's 63, Rory, yourself and Dys?
 LUKE DONALD: Finally found a bit of game today. Struggled the first couple of days, didn't strike it that well. But yeah, played nicely today and made some putts when I needed to, and I think the conditions, even though it's a bit cooler with no wind, you can make some birdies around here. 

 Q. Nicely is an understatement. 
 JAMIE REDKNAPP: Incredible, right on a piece of string, he went birdie, birdie on the first two holes. He said to me last night, he said, "Don't worry, we'll still make the cut." 
 I said, "I don't think so, Mate." It was incredible to sit back and watch, and Lee Westwood and Johann, as well. It was a special day for us, walking and playing with the world No. 1 and 2, doesn't get any better than that.

 Q. What about your position, with the run away leader, how do you approach tomorrow? 
 LUKE DONALD: Hopefully go shoot another 63. Michael, he's playing very well, and we'll have to see what he does finishing up. But yeah, at least I've given myself a chance. That's all you want to do on Sunday, give yourself a chance and Jamie and I will go out and have some fun as well.

 Q. You were on the cusp as far as making the cut even midway through the round. How much pressure were you feeling? 
 JAMIE REDKNAPP: It's enjoyable. 
 LUKE DONALD: Too much. 
 JAMIE REDKNAPP: I tucked a 3-wood on the par 5, I think 14, 15, I thought we could be in trouble here and lost the ball and then my partner made a birdie and I thought, we'll be all right. 
 As amateurs to be with professionals for a week is unbelievable, privilege to be here.

 Q. You have a record of 400-something holes without a 3-putt until recently, and the one on 17, that looked pretty difficult?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, thought the run might end again. But yeah, it wasn't a great second shot. I caught that second shot a little bit heavy, and it was an awkward place to be. But came off well again, and was able to hole that 6-footer for par.

 Q. What's it going to be like for you tomorrow, out there playing with the world No. 1 golfer, trying to win a marquis event alongside you?
 JAMIE REDKNAPP: We did it several years ago, just made the cut, hopefully get in the slipstream and some of that putting rubs off on me. I missed one on 18 at Carnoustie from about five inches and I didn't sleep at all last night. 

 Q. Equalling the new course record, must be very, very satisfying. 
 LUKE DONALD: I think it is. Especially at St. Andrews, to have a course record on this course is better than most. So, yeah, you know, it was one of those days where everything sort of went my way. Didn't feel like I played tremendous golf, but I holed the putts when I needed to, and just didn't make any mistakes. So yeah, very, very happy.

 Q. Did you feel it coming before you teed off, that this could be a low one?
 LUKE DONALD: Not really. Not really after yesterday. Obviously finished really poorly at Carnoustie, 4-over for the last four and was feeling quite drained, didn't feel very strong mentally or physically, but got a really good night's sleep last night and I think the jet-lag has finally caught up with me. Been able to take advantage of some better play today.

 Q. How enjoyable it and how significant is it for you to put those kind of numbers on the board on a links golf course?
 LUKE DONALD: Well, exactly. You remember these rounds. This is all good for the memory banks, just put that away and try and remember it the next time that we are here for The Open.

 Q. And it's another Sunday and it's another Sunday with the letters D-o-n-a-l-d on the leaderboard. 
 LUKE DONALD: I'm a few shots back. Obviously Michael has been playing extremely good golf to be 19-, 20-under, whatever it is. It's a shame I finished so badly yesterday, otherwise I would be in a really good position. But, I have a chance and if I go out and get off to hot start like I did today, puts some pressure on him. 

 Q. If I can ask you about Michael, you were on the Walker Cup Team with him in 2001?
 LUKE DONALD: 2001, yeah. 

 Q. Obviously talented. 
 LUKE DONALD: A lot of talented. Always seem very sure about his game. A quiet chap. Went about his business. I haven't seen what he's done in the last few years so much, but I think he's been putting in a few good performances here and there. Obviously another one of those guys from Ireland (chuckling). 

 Q. The run goes on. 
 LUKE DONALD: Exactly. 

 Q. And he was pretty good in 2001, with that great crop of golfers?
 LUKE DONALD: Only takes one good week to get back in the forefront of golf, and then to be remembered again. Obviously he's put himself in a great position for this week.

 Q. Did you play in that Amateur he won in 2001? 
 LUKE DONALD: Trivia question there. I never played one British Amateur. Always clashed with NCAAs. It never worked out for some reason schedule-wise. 

 Q. So that's a no then?
 LUKE DONALD: That's a no. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT