WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great 65 to start this is out.  Everybody wants to know about the 9-iron you hit on par 3 to jar it there for the Hole-In-One.  
LUKE DONALD: Just come off, I hit it in the hazard on 15, made a good par but came up to 16 and had a perfect number, downhill a little bit, 159 and it was playing straight downwind and good 9-iron for me and looked good all the way.  Hit a foot short and went in the hole.  Bonus when it goes in, obviously, and nice to win a holiday for life.  Apparently that's what I got for it.   
 Q.  So you have to make arrangements now to carve out a couple of weeks every year to go to a Wyndham property.  That's not a bad problem to have, right?  
LUKE DONALD: For the rest of my life, that sounds like a great deal.  Yeah.  Unique prize.  Happy to be on the right side of it.   
 Q.  Tell us about those scoring conditions today here at Wyndham.  You played very well last year, finished tied for 26th and you're back again this year.  
LUKE DONALD: It's a course I really enjoy.  I love the design of this course.  The greens are very true, very fast, quite undulating.  You have to have some imagination.   
And nice to get off to a solid start.  Conditions were nice out there.  The greens are holding for the most part and not too much wind.  So, you're playing well there's some opportunities out there.   
 Q.  Luke thanks for you time.  Best of luck the rest of the way.  
LUKE DONALD: Thank you.   
 Q.  What a great 1st Round here at the Wyndham Championship.  The 16th hole a Hole-In-One.  
LUKE DONALD: Yeah.  It was one of those shots that never left the pin.  Hit 9-iron from 159 and little bit downwind and pitched short and went in the hole.  Pretty nice to see that one go in.   
It's been awhile since I've had a Hole-In-One in a tournament.  I've had a few in my career but only the second one in a tournament and nice to do on that hole.  Holidays for life.   
 Q.  Of course that helps out with the scorecard but then you get some extra perks.  What exactly are you receiving?  
LUKE DONALD: I guess I get a holiday for life from the Wyndham properties around the world and my caddy gets a holiday for a week as well.  Little bonus for him for picking the right club, finally.  No, it's a nice interesting prize.  Glad to use that well.   
 Q.  The first and the last event before the FedExCup Playoffs.  What do you want to establish in your game this week and use it for?  
LUKE DONALD: I want to establish some momentum, little bit of confidence and just get going.  It's been a bit of a slow couple months, last couple months, struggled a little bit to gain momentum.  Hopefully this will kick start a good run of golf.   
 Q.  Congrats on the Hole-in-One.  
LUKE DONALD: Thank you.   
**** FOLLOW-UP QUESTION ****   
 Q.  Were you familiar with the Quicken Loans Hole-In-One commercial?  
LUKE DONALD: I am, yeah.   
 Q.  How does it make you feel that you just won it for someone for this whole year?  
LUKE DONALD: It's a cool initiative for Quicken Loans obviously sponsoring it.  It will make a huge deal to someone's life to have their whole year paid off.  It's a big deal and we'll know some guys financially, you know, it's always a worry with people to have that burden taken off for a year.  I think it's going to be obviously very pleasing to someone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT