ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 28, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SARAH GWYNN: Luke, thanks for coming in today. Always a special week, tell us how it's going to far.   
 LUKE DONALD: It is, it's always a fun week, a little bit more relaxed week than most of the weeks we play. I think that will be good for me. Obviously I've been playing a lot of golf the last few weeks under a lot of pressure and contending, so it will be nice to kind of enjoy this one a little bit more. I'm playing with Jamie Redknapp, who is a good friend of mine. We'll have some fun out there and if the weather stays like this, it's pretty much unbelievable. It's always one of the most enjoyable events we play all year.   
 SARAH GWYNN: How is your game at the moment?   
 LUKE DONALD: My game is decent. I didn't play that great that week, and was proud to even give myself a chance considering the way I hit the ball. I've had some good success here, the few times I've played the Dunhill. Feeling good about my game.   
  
  Q. There's always pressure, World Ranking points pressure, Ryder Cup pressure --  
 LUKE DONALD: It's still a big event, big purse. Obviously I have a nice lead in The Race to Dubai right now and it will be nice to play very well here. Obviously a great field, too. I think five or six guys in the Top-10 are playing this week, or even more. So there's a lot to play for, yeah, but I think just the nature of this event makes it feel a little bit more relaxed. Yeah, the last few weeks have been busy. I think when you play both tours, this time of year for me is extremely busy. This week, next week and then we'll put the clubs away for a few weeks.   
  
  Q. Are you going to play another event on the PGA Tour?  
 LUKE DONALD: Right now, I'm not planning to, no. I'll play next week and a couple of events at the end of the year.   
  
  Q. You're going to stick to that even if Webb Simpson plays another event?  
 LUKE DONALD: I think so. I have to weigh the pros and cons of trying to win the Money List, whether it's for personal reasons, rest might be better served. I don't know. From what I'm sure, I'm not sure if he's playing an event, either -- he might be and maybe I'll be tempted to add one, too. We'll have to see. It's only my third in a row, after next week.   
  
  Q. Can you explain why you only felt your game was so-so at East Lake?  
 LUKE DONALD: East Lake is a tricky course. It's a tough course to hit fairways. That's the key around there to do well. I hit less than 50 per cent of the fairways. Just didn't feel that comfortable over the ball. I think that's a little bit of what happens when you play a lot of golf. Your swing is going to get into some -- back into some of the old mistakes that you try and stay away from.   
 Playing a lot does that. You don't have that break in the ability to kind of look at what you need to do and concentrate on what you need to work on. You're more focussed on just playing, and that's fine, and you can still get away with it. But sometimes old habits creep in.   
  
  Q. You won the Match Play in America, but do you feel a mental burden of trying to win a stroke play event over there?  
 LUKE DONALD: Not really. I think I've won a couple of pretty decent events over here. I might get -- in America early in the year but as far as I'm concerned, The European Tour is just as strong these days. We have great players right now. The World Rankings are showing that and we are showing that in some of the team events that we have won lately. Three of the Major winners are European Tour Members. I think I've proved myself enough by winning Wentworth and Barclays.   
  
  Q. What are the similarities between Castle Stuart and the three courses this week?  
 LUKE DONALD: Not totally different. Really a lot of similarities. Castle Stuart might be a little bit more generous off the tee than some of these courses that we play. Obviously Carnoustie is probably the hardest of the three that we play. But Kingsbarns offers some scoring opportunities, as well as St. Andrews on a good day. I think the key always to try and hopefully get Carnoustie on a calm day and make some birdies, and then take your opportunities on the other courses.   
  
  Q. Will you play the Scottish Open next year?   
 LUKE DONALD: Certainly. Right now I plan on playing there again. I really hope it stays at Castle Stuart and that The European Tour can find another sponsor and keep that event going. It's a great event.   
  
  Q. How important is it to you to win both money lists?  
 LUKE DONALD: I think more the fact that no one has ever done it being member of both tours. You always try to accomplish things that nobody has ever done. I think it will be pretty special. I think it's not easy to play on both tours. You spread yourself a little bit thinly. You have to play well at the right event, the big events, the majors and the World events. Obviously kicked off another couple good wins. At some of the key events in Europe as well.   
 It would mean a lot to lead both Money Lists and that's why I will keep a little eye on what everyone is doing but rest is important, as well. It's hard to chase everything.   
  
  Q. Is there one you could feasibly play?  
 LUKE DONALD: I could play Disney. Take my daughter to Disney World. Obviously a lot of my rest is dictated by my wife being due. Have to discuss it with her, as well.   
 I think the McGladrey tournament in Sea Island, that's the penultimate event, I believe. But cross that bridge when it comes.   
  
  Q. Webb might play another one to catch you though?  
 LUKE DONALD: I don't know how important it is to Webb, but obviously it's an accomplishment. I guess the reason Webb would think about doing it is I believe it comes with a five-year exemption on the U.S. Tour.   
 So for someone this time last year who was struggling to keep his card, that might be very appealing.   
  
  Q. What has been the most special accomplishment this season?  
 LUKE DONALD: I've always said winning at Wentworth and what that kind of meant, getting to No. 1 in the world, the way I won it against Lee, obviously, who was No. 1 at the time. Having missed a couple of opportunities to get to No. 1, to do it at the right time at Wentworth, Flagship Event of The European Tour and with a lot of family and friends in attendance kind of made that week very special.   
 SARAH GWYNN: Have a great week. Thanks for coming in.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT