TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 24, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it was another tough day. I struggled really finding any rhythm, finding my game. I couldn't get in the short stuff, and when I did, I wasn't hitting particularly great irons, either. But I could have gone the other way pretty quickly, and I hung in there pretty good. And I've still got a chance tomorrow, so I'm going to see it as a positive, and hopefully tomorrow is an easier day.  
  
  Q. You stayed level par for the day and held in there, like you said. You're still in contention for both the TOUR Championship and the FedExCup. How does one weigh on your mind more than the other while you're out there?   
 LUKE DONALD: Again, my focus for this week is to win this tournament, and everything else kind of falls into place if I can do that. That's what my goal is still. I think only being three back, I've still got a great chance. And if I don't get off to a good start tomorrow, then I guess I'll be looking at potential where I am in the FedExCup. But until that time happens, I'll be pressing on to try and win.   
  
  Q. Do you find yourself watching the leaderboard much?  
 LUKE DONALD: No more than usual, I don't think. I try not to look at it too much. You know, I think today was a decent opportunity to make a score. A couple guys did.   
 But the course is certainly not easy. I think it's a very fair course. If you play well, you're going to make some birdies; if you struggle, it's going to eat you up. You know, I'm still in a great position, and I'll look at that leaderboard on the last six holes tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Are you at all surprised the way it kind of has shaken out?  
 LUKE DONALD: I suppose so. None of the top 5 guys are really -- they're not really dominating as well as they could have. I guess they've given everyone else a chance. I guess I'm in the best position. But yeah, that's the beauty of the Playoffs, I suppose.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT