TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 23, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LUKE DONALD: You know, I was very happy with the score. I didn't hit the ball quite as solidly today, and I didn't quite have as much control as I did yesterday. But you're not going to hit it perfectly for 72 holes. There's going to be days when you're going to have to really fight and have some good short game to get you out of some trouble, and that kind of was the case for today. It was just a little bit off, but it was really sharp around the greens, and 2-under really kept me in a great position.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're in good shape heading into the weekend?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, absolutely. I'm not sure what's leading, 7 or 8, but I know I'm within striking distance. Yeah, should be a good, fun, exciting weekend ahead.  
  
  Q. It's a crowded leaderboard, a couple of the guys, Australians, Jason Day and Adam Scott up there. What makes it fit their game?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, you have four Aussies here this week, I believe, so they've obviously had a good year so far. Jason has had a very consistent year, finished runner-up in a couple majors, Adam obviously found -- had a great week at the -- Akron, at the Bridgestone, and both guys are capable of winning this week. When you come to this week, you expect the play to be strong. It's the 30 best players of the year, and they're going to fight hard all the way.  
  
  Q. Of the top 5 guys in the FedExCup, you're in the best position. The top three above you kind of settled back. Seems like it's really going to be a shootout this weekend as well as the tournament, don't you think?  
 LUKE DONALD: It's going to make it exciting. As I said, I am kind of trying to focus on trying to win the event. I know if I do that then everything that I want will be accomplished.  
  
  Q. So it's easy to just get that other stuff out of your mind?  
 LUKE DONALD: I think so. You know, I'm still in a great position to try and win this event, and if I can do that, then everything else doesn't matter.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT