TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 22, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Luke Donald in after a 4-under par 66. Great start to the tournament. If we can just get your comments on the day. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, very solid start. I felt like I struck the ball very solidly today. It's always a good sign that my swing is in good positions. I'm hitting the ball pretty far, another good sign. I felt like I did a good job around today. 
 It wasn't easy, especially the last few holes when the weather got a little bit trickier, and glad to finish out of the round and be done for today. 

 Q. Based on what happened last week in Chicago, were you conscious of that starting out today, not to start out shooting 75?
 LUKE DONALD: Certainly I wanted to get off to a quicker start and build off the last three rounds, really, from Chicago. As much as it pleased me to rebound after that tough start, it really made it very tough for me to even have a chance to win. I wanted to get off to a faster start, put myself in better position, and I'm glad I did that. 

 Q. In the overview that the four FedExCup venues, is it fair to say this one is probably best suited to you? You've got to hit it on the fairway, knock it on the greens, and nobody usually goes 20-under? 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I don't really know. I haven't really thought about it. In terms of results, Chicago probably has been my least successful event. Up until last year -- I guess I played nicely here last year. Up until then I can't remember any really solid finishes here. I guess the story goes if you play well, you can play well around any course. I certainly think it's a good course to end the TOUR Championship here at East Lake. It's a solid course, and I think it produces good winners. 

 Q. You mentioned you hit the ball long. How much --
 LUKE DONALD: For me (laughs). 

 Q. How much longer are you than when you turned pro? And what's the differential on days where you feel like you're hitting it long and maybe some days where there's a power leak? How many yards?
 LUKE DONALD: It's hard to put into numbers, how much longer I am from when I came out of college. Probably by the numbers, not a huge amount. 
 But certainly the second part of your question, you know, I think off the tee it can be up to 15, 20 yards sometimes. Sometimes when I feel like there's a bit of a power leak, the club is in poor positions, not striking it out of the middle of the club face, then those are the days when I do feel short. But today I felt like I was hitting it very solid. 

 Q. Does that mean you were hitting it really good today or you hit it really bad those other days? 
 LUKE DONALD: I hit it good today, yeah. Both. I mean, both, really. Sometimes you don't strike it well; you don't have that timing between your upper body and your lower body, and I struggle. 

 Q. As you're glancing at the leaderboard and you see Bradley and Dufner atop the board in Atlanta, do you think anything about that?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I did mention to my caddie, John, a familiar leaderboard since last summer in Atlanta. Those guys play a lot on Bermudagrass and they're used to it. I don't think it's a coincidence by any means.

 Q. Is there a difference for you before and after the rain? 
 LUKE DONALD: Well, I only had to play one hole since after the delay, 18. I mean, we played the last four or five holes with rain, and it made it tricky. Any time there's rain, the ball is going to fly different distances. You're not quite as loose over the ball. You don't know how far it's going to go exactly. So there's a little bit more variable -- an added variable, and that makes it a little bit more difficult. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT