BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was the difference today?  
 LUKE DONALD: Just found something a little bit in my swing. I think I was getting a little bit rushed from the top on Thursday. I hit too many poor shots, paid the penalties. Just didn't do a lot very well on Thursday, even had some short game errors. And just tightened it up the last couple days and been a lot more solid. I feel like I'm more in control of the golf ball and giving myself a lot of opportunities.  
  
  Q. Overall are you happy, disappointed? You've had two good rounds.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, obviously ruined that opening round. Obviously if I had shot something just halfway decent I'd be right in the mix. Obviously Justin is playing very well, and it's kind of in his hands right now. But yeah, obviously very disappointed. It's made everything very tough.  
  
  Q. How much would winning the Player of the Year mean to you if that were to happen?  
 LUKE DONALD: That would mean a great deal. It's been a solid year, but you know, there's a lot of other candidates that have a good opportunity to win that. But I'm probably going to have to go either win tomorrow and have a great round or go and win East Lake.  
  
  Q. What happens if no one else wins? You know what I mean by that.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it's a tough call. I've only won one, and I've had a very consistent year. Winning counts, I guess, and there's a few guys that have won a couple times out here. It would be nice to count some of my other wins, but Player of the Year is over here, so that's not going to be the case.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 LUKE DONALD: It certainly would be a great accomplishment. I don't know if I'd count it as a win.  
  
  Q. But would you think it would count towards people's minds?  
 LUKE DONALD: I would hope some people would at least have me in their minds. Obviously the year I've had going through the rankings and increasing my lead with the consistency that I've had, winning a World Golf Championship, it's been a very good year, but probably one win short right now of probably persuading a few guys. But we'll have to see.  
  
  Q. You Tweeted about having to get up so early. Are you still mad at college football?   
 LUKE DONALD: Oh, it was a little bit of fun. I know there are some people that love Notre Dame and some people that don't like them. I think if it was any other team, it would have been the same response.  
  
  Q. Where are you on Notre Dame? Do you like them or do you hate them?  
 LUKE DONALD: I'm English. I'm probably not the right guy to ask.   
  
  Q. You did go to Northwestern.   
 LUKE DONALD: I'm a Cats fan, but when it comes to that stuff I probably don't have as many rivalries.  
  
  Q. What did you do right the last two days that you didn't do on Thursday?   
 LUKE DONALD: Everything. Drove it better, high irons better, I putted better, my short game was better. None of it really worked very well the first day for some reason. I just got off to a horrible start. Proud of myself to get back in it and at least give myself a sniff.  
  
  Q. You even alluded to it in the pre-tournament press conference that you have not played well here historically. Is it nice to put in a couple good rounds like you have here?  
 LUKE DONALD: It is. It's a common theme for me here. I put in a bad round. I've had a lot of 25th, 30th place finishes on this course, and hopefully it's the last time I'll have to play it. I think there are better places, better courses that better suit me.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT