THE 145TH OPEN
July 16, 2016
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Do you have any regrets now looking back on Thursday that you think perhaps one or two shots got away on Thursday that would have put you into a better position to attack over the weekend?  
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, obviously I think I was on the side of the draw that was the toughest side.  Even going off early I was actually quite licking my chops thinking that would be a great draw.  Actually, we had some wind on the back nine coming back, and then in the afternoon it dropped down.  So that coupled with not quite taking advantage enough on the front nine this week has left me struggling to catch up.  I've actually played reasonably solid over the three days.  Just, again, not making enough birdies on the front side.  I've actually played the back side, the tough side pretty well.  But I think tough draw and, again, not quite taking that front nine to its -- you can really make some birdies there if you're on.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) did it help very much on Friday afternoon?  
LUKE DONALD: It was tough.  Teeing up Friday I think torrential rain kind of started as we teed off.  The first three holes were very tricky.  The rest of it was okay.  It was just windy and tough.  But obviously the draw is important in The Open.  Sometimes you get it your way and sometimes you don't.  I think I was just on the wrong side of the draw this week.   
 Q.  Americans have won the last six Open Championships at Troon.  The British challenge this week has been quite limited with the exception of Andrew Johnston and Rory might get into contention.  Is there any particular reason why the British challenge has been finite this week?  
LUKE DONALD: Well, again, I think you just have to look at the draw.  Andrew Johnston, I think, was on the better side of the draw, hence he's up there at 4-under.  Rory battled well in the tough side of the draw.  But I think he was the top guy out of everyone from the early late starters and he's in 2-under, 15th position, 8 shots back.  I think it's more just kind of the way the draw fell more than anything.   
 Q.  I'll ask you tomorrow about Ryder Cup when you've got through 72 holes.  But do you feel you've gotten something to shoot for tomorrow?  
LUKE DONALD: Every round, every shot is an opportunity.  I think I've obviously been a little bit stagnant the last couple months.  You look for that one good round to really start something going.  So hopefully that's tomorrow.  If it's not tomorrow, then next week in the PGA in a week's time.  But you know, you've just got to keep digging and grinding on every round and every shot and hope something can get me going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT