PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Disappointing ending but your thoughts on the day overall?  
 LUKE DONALD: Obviously the finish leaves a bitter taste in my mouth. I was in a great position at 4-under and thought maybe I could even grab an extra birdie, get to 5-under, who knows, that could be leading by the end of the day.  
 So yeah, very disappointing finish, but there was a lot of great golf out there, too. I played a lot better today. A lot more fairways, gave myself some good opportunities. It's just a shame to waste it like I did at the end.  
  
  Q. The way a lot of guys are losing it coming in, is there even a way to judge a round when before you get to 15, you're thinking you're putting a nice round together and the wheels come off --  
 LUKE DONALD: Well, it's that kind of course. It does offer some birdie opportunities, and you can get it under par. But there are some tough holes out there that you've got to weather, and the champion at the end of the week is probably going to have played those tough ones the best.  
  
  Q. With the difficulty, that seems to be an immense advantage being in the last group, how is somebody coming from behind able t putt the pedal to the metal on 18 and pass them?  
 LUKE DONALD: Again, it's going to be hard to make birdies. I guess the theory would be to play those holes even, maybe 1-under before the leaders do. It's obviously a tough stretch under pressure coming down the final holes in the last few groups.   
 So we have to see how we do. But it's more of a -- if you can play them even or 1-under, I guess you never hope that your playing partners make mistakes but there's always that chance.  
  
  Q. Do you think the closing holes is going to make for an exciting finish, because if you're within three or four or five strokes of the lead, you're still going to be --  
 LUKE DONALD: I think any time you get holes that are this difficult, yeah, it's going to make for an exciting finish, exciting in terms of, can you hold on. It's not going to be exciting how many birdies you can make to win this tournament. But you know, a lot of majors finish on tough holes, and this is just another one of them.  
  
  Q. 18 has been a scorecard killer; do you have to swallow your pride and play it like a par 5 and take the bogey?  
 LUKE DONALD: Well, they have moved the tee up but it still doesn't really change the hole. I still feel like I'm hitting it to a certain area, so I'm just clubbing down. I hit rescue today off the tee on -- obviously it's not 500 yards when they moved the tee up. It's probably 460. But that would have left me about a 4-iron. So it's certainly playable. But it's just tough. It's demanding. There's no let-up. There's no bail out on that hole. You just have to hit good shots.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you've got to be almost less aggressive and play it more like a par 5 because it's so difficult?   
 LUKE DONALD: I don't really play it like a par 5. My aim is never to lay up on that hole in two, but it's very hard to it attack it, and give yourself a mid to short iron in there, because it's just the way the fairway contours and the angle of the tee shot, it's just a very tight tee shot if you want to take that on. So you have to kind of play back to that 220 area and leave yourself a long iron, and that's why you're not seeing too many birdies.   
  
  Q. Are you really angry about that finish? We don't see it in your mood but --  
 LUKE DONALD: I'm trying to stay positive. I am angry. Had something really good going there, and kind of threw it away.   
  
  Q. Is it possible that 18 is too gimmicky as a finishing hole for a Major Championship?  
 LUKE DONALD: It's not gimmicky. It's just tough.   
  
  Q. Do you want to kick a cat or bang your fist against the wall in anger, do anything?   
 LUKE DONALD: I don't know, I might punish myself in the gym.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT