WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 7, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Closing round of 66, which looks like it won't be good enough to win, but another great week.   
 LUKE DONALD: It was a good week, a lot of positives out of this week. Obviously it's disappointing, three out of four days I really felt like I gave a lot away on the greens. I had some good opportunities this week. It's probably one of the best ball-striking weeks I've had for a while. Disappointing I didn't make a couple more and give Scottie a good run, but he looks like he's playing very well. But still, a lot of positives from this week.   
  
  Q. You worked hard with your coach last week. You told us you made some tweaks in your game. Do you feel you really bedded those tweaks in for next week?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I felt really comfortable off the tee and my iron play was good, hit a lot of greens this week, gave myself a lot of opportunities, and around a course that's quite tight and demanding in places. It was very encouraging.  
  
  Q. How would you sum up the state of your game going into the PGA Championship? Is it as good as it's ever been?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I'm not going to worry too much about the putter. I've always felt like I'm a good putter, and those things will come around. I've just got to keep being patient and keep giving myself opportunities. That's all I can do.   
  
  Q. Five birdies against one bogey on the day. If not for Adam Scott playing so well, you've got to think to yourself you would have put yourself in a pretty good position to win this thing.   
 LUKE DONALD: Well, it was a great weekend, a bit of a slow start. I played very well. I didn't putt great the first two days, played very nicely yesterday and played very well today. Again, I left a few opportunities out there on the greens, missed a four-footer on 14 and another few short putts. If I got the putter rolling a little bit better, I would have given Adam a good run. But he looks like he's playing very well.   
  
  Q. None of us would be true golfers if we thought we made everything out there. We've always got to leave those opportunities. What are you happiest with your game on the weekend as compared to the first two days?  
 LUKE DONALD: It was very consistent throughout to be honest. Tee to green, it felt very solid, not just in terms of hitting fairways and greens, I felt like the contact was very solid, hitting the ball a little bit farther is always a good sign that my swing is in good position.  
  
  Q. Going into next week, do you feel like playing in this heat and a little bit of wind gave you some practice for the heat that's going to be coming next week in Atlanta?  
 LUKE DONALD: I think this is nothing compared to what we're going to get in Atlanta. Hopefully I'll probably be wearing white every day, but yeah, it's going to be hot and sticky, and get ready to sweat.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT