WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You probably made a few more putts than you did in round 1 and round 2. Talk about getting into position and how you feel. 
 LUKE DONALD: Well, it's nice to get in position, yeah. I putted a lot better today. That was really the only difference between today and the first two days. I've been swinging it nicely, hitting a lot of fairways, a lot of greens. Just was able to get the putter rolling and hole a few putts, which was a pleasant surprise.

 Q. Seems like more than anything you make less bogeys than everyone else. How much does it hurt you then when you do make one like on the 18th or earlier? 
 LUKE DONALD: I'm not going to think about 18 too much. It's a tough driving hole, and I didn't hit a very good tee shot there. 
 You know, I'm going to concentrate on all the good things I did today. That's only two bogeys for the whole week, so around a course that's pretty tight and tough as this place can be, that's pretty good. 

 Q. When you won the Scottish a few weeks back at a similar stage, do you feel as though you're playing better going into the final round of the Scottish?
 LUKE DONALD: Tee to green, this is as solid as I've played for a while. I think I've had rounds where I've been very solid. I hit the ball quite well at the Scottish, but the last three days have been very solid in terms of greens and fairways.

 Q. A lot of guys are competing for that top spot. What do you expect to be different tomorrow? 
 LUKE DONALD: Well, I expect more of the same. You know, the course isn't going to change too much. If we get some rain, it'll just soften it up even more. But I expect scores to be reasonably low, and people are going to have to go out there and make some birdies. Hopefully I can continue to keep giving myself a lot of opportunities, which I have done. 

 Q. What are your expectation levels going into a major championship? Do you have to guard against putting too much pressure on yourself?
 LUKE DONALD: There is more expectation and more pressure at majors. Those are the tournaments you want to win, especially being ranked No. 1 in the world. I think there's some expectancy there from the media, as well. But you try and treat it like any other event and just go about your business of what you can control and keep doing what you know you can do, and that's give myself opportunities and hopefully you can take them. 

 Q. The crowd reaction has been great for you this week, hasn't it?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it's been good. Obviously most people -- a lot of the crowd have been following someone else, but that's understandable. But the crowd is always pretty good here, yeah.

 Q. Any heckling from Ohio State fans?
 LUKE DONALD: No, we're all Big Ten.

 Q. Do you ever think about that (inaudible)?
 LUKE DONALD: It doesn't bother me. I understand there's more people in the limelight right now. Rory obviously and what he did; Tiger coming back is big stories. But it doesn't bother me, I'll just go about my business. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT