WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LUKE DONALD: Between yesterday and today, yeah, five shots on the greens for sure. Yeah, I'm only five back, but obviously a lot of positives that I'm hitting it well. The last couple holes I didn't hit it very good. But 15 greens -- I don't know, I'm just -- I felt like I hit better putts today, it was just three or four lip-outs.

 Q. You obviously don't panic, do you? 
 LUKE DONALD: You certainly don't want to panic. You've got to stick with what you know. You know, I've been working on a few things and just trust that eventually it's going to pan out. All you can do with putting is really -- obviously when you practice, concentrate on your fundamentals, but on the course pick good lines and be committed to them, just not waiver, not have any negative thoughts, and just keep trusting that they are going to go in.

 Q. After Scotland you were putting so great. Was it the wind? 
 LUKE DONALD: Game is like that, isn't it, sometimes. It's frustrating, you get one part of it going, and a little bit the other -- it goes away. 

 Q. Do you think it's the grass here?
 LUKE DONALD: You always have places you feel comfortable on the greens, but my putting and short game has been a real strength the last three or four years but hasn't been quite as good the last month or so.

 Q. Have you changed putters since Castle Stuart?
 LUKE DONALD: Same putter. Thinking about trying something else, but I haven't -- I've had that same putter for four years, so we'll see. 

 Q. Is it a Spider?
 LUKE DONALD: It's an ugly looking thing, Callaway Odyssey.

 Q. Do you have putters in the garage?
 LUKE DONALD: I have a few. I haven't dabbled too much. One of the things we were working with my coach was getting that toe rolling over. So instead of having a face-balanced putter which I have now, maybe go with a more traditional one.

 Q. Have you ever played Atlanta Athletic Club?
 LUKE DONALD: Never. It just seemed like it was such a busy time leading up to it, and sweating it out in the heat, I don't know if it would have done me any good. Yeah, we'll see. I've tried going to tournaments before and not -- I haven't seen the pattern. Usually I like to go and prepare, but I'm not too worried. I think it's a pretty straightforward course from what I've heard.

 Q. Do you know Martin Laird very well?
 LUKE DONALD: Not too well, but I know him somewhat. I haven't played too much with him.

 Q. Are you impressed with what he's been doing this year, winning at Arnold's event?
 LUKE DONALD: Absolutely, and he's been playing quite well for a number of seasons really. I think he broke out Vegas a few years ago and won a tournament and seems to be improving every year. 

 Q. He got married last week. 
 LUKE DONALD: I don't know if that will be good or not, but time will tell. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT