THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Sum that up for us.
 LUKE DONALD: It was good. I played pretty solid most of the day, my first nine holes I was a little bit untied-around the greens, and I don't think I missed more than one or two greens out there. So you know, tee-to-green, it was pretty solid, and obviously caught on fire a little bit on my last nine holes, the front nine. 
 So was nice to finish as strong as I did. It's a course where you feel like you have quite a few opportunities and it can easily get to you if you take a run of holes where you're not taking advantage of those opportunities like did I on my first nine holes, but I stayed patient, and made some birdies coming in. 

 Q. And are you learning way around a new course?
 LUKE DONALD: It is a new course. I only played it for the first time yesterday. I didn't play Tuesday. I played a bunch of golf leading up to that, so I wanted to spend some time on the range. But yeah, I think it's been consistent, the wind direction, so that's helped quicken up that learning process. 

 Q. And you are standing here bathed in sunshine which helps on a course like this. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, today the weather was pretty good. Enough breeze to make it interesting, and one little period of showers for about half an hour, but other than that, it was pretty warm and balmy, and it was nice conditions to play in. 

 Q. Preparations good? Nice to have that holiday and get that little bit of a break?
 LUKE DONALD: It was. I needed that. I was a little bit burnt out. So it was nice to just sit back, relax and read a couple of books.

 Q. And take in what you've achieved?
 LUKE DONALD: And that. You know, as I said, becoming No. 1 was fantastic, but still a lot of goals and achievements to attain. 

 Q. Sometimes with all of us, you never really take stock of what you have achieved, it's a treadmill and you move on from one to the next. 
 LUKE DONALD: It's a busy season, busy year. We are constantly travelling and constantly on the road and it is hard to reflect sometimes. But yeah, I guess I had a couple celebratory glasses of wine on the holiday just to soak it all in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT