BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2016
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How good is it to start with a round like that?
LUKE DONALD: I think it's always important, if you look at just history, if I'm playing well the first round, it usually means good things for the rest of the tournament.  It's nice to get off to a really solid start.  Hit a lot of good shots out there, and I was really happy with that round.
Q. You have a pretty splendid history at Wentworth, a two-time champion here.  What makes you so comfortable at this course?
LUKE DONALD: Obviously past success helps, having a lot of good memories to feed off of.  For some reason since the changes, the course has seemed to favour my game a little bit more, and I've enjoyed some really strong finishes over the last few years.
Q. And you had your struggles a couple years ago, and we've seen a lot of possible results, especially with the RBC Heritage.  What's it like coming to the course when you're riding that wave of momentum?
LUKE DONALD: Certainly the last year or two have been tough, tough times, where I struggled and I struggled to gain that confidence and feel comfortable.  Seems like the last couple months, I'm getting more and more comfortable, the better I play, and it's nice to see some good results go with that.
Q. 4-under par to start, is that nice and solid?
LUKE DONALD: Very solid.  I was very happy with that round.  I hit a lot of very good, solid iron shots.  A lot of my birdie putts were from short range.  Didn't have to work too hard for those.  A couple mistakes out there, but that's going to happen around this place.  But that was a nice, steady start for me.
Q. As we touched on in the build up to this event, you know it so well and you have such a wonderful history here.  Presumably that gives you a lift when you're starting out.
LUKE DONALD: It's nice to get off to a solid start.  You look at history, I tend to do well during a week if I can get off to a good start on Thursday.  I think just makes everything feel a little bit more settled and feel in a good place.  I was really happy with that round.
Q. Lifted by playing, in a sense, at home, because everybody knows you here and everybody is expecting you to play well?
LUKE DONALD: Lifted more by coming to a course that's very familiar to me and one I've had some past successes at.  I think those two things, coupled with some good crowd and fan support, always helps.
Q. Given your record here, particularly since the course changes, are you one of the few that is sort of a little bit reluctant to see the greens getting ripped up for next year?
LUKE DONALD: Yes and no.  I've had a lot of past success sear, so I somehow figured out this course a little bit better than others.  The fact that the greens are quite undulating now, the bunkers are very deep, seems to play to some of my strengths, but we'll see what they do.
I think obviously BMW would love to see more top players playing here, and hopefully with a new design, that will be the fact.
Q. Very satisfying to knock it around in 68 today, to in a sense continue the turning of the corner that's been going on in your game.
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, a lot of positive signs, and it's nice to continue that trend around a place again that I've had some good success around.  Hopefully that will continue over the next three days.
Q. It's fair to say the last couple of years haven't been the kindest to you in terms of your career?
LUKE DONALD: No, if I had to say I've had a down period in my career, it would have been the last two years.  I haven't dropped as much in the World Rankings as some guys, but I feel like, yeah, I'm on the upward path.
Q. You've given yourself a platform, and as we know, when you stick your name on the leaderboard, it tends to stay there.
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I love getting off to good starts on Thursday.  For me, that almost seems like the key to having a successful week.  I struggle if I get off to slow starts.  That was, again, a perfect start for me this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT