VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. An all-English final today, you've been putting very nicely until today. Was it very much because of putting?  
 LUKE DONALD: Certainly I had some opportunities on the greens today. Usually I can do it in my sleep but today I struggled on the greens this afternoon, and it was disappointing. I think I don't mind losing when -- if I play well but unfortunately I didn't play well enough and as I said, I left too many shots out there, too many putts, and that was disappointing.   
  
  Q. You were wishing to catch a victory here, also your world No. 1 title, was that very much in your mind?  
 LUKE DONALD: To be honest, no. Just getting the victory was. Again, I'm not too concerned with the rankings. Those kind of take care of themselves but I'll keep knocking on the door and we'll give it another try next week.   
  
  Q. Frustrating afternoon, just couldn't find your best golf, could you?  
 LUKE DONALD: No, and that what makes it even more disappointing. You never mind losing if it's a good match, but it was a bit of a scrappy match, and I didn't have my best.   
 Ian did what he had to do, and I let a lot of opportunities slip at just around the turn when I went 1-up on 10.   
 11, I should have made that putt.   
 12, Ian makes a long one.  
 And then 13, I should have made that, too. It was a big swing there.   
 You know, obviously missing the putt on 15 didn't help either. Too many missed opportunities.   
  
  Q. He's a tough competitor, he's shown it all week in terms of a match-play opponent.   
 LUKE DONALD: He is. You know, he's gritty. He gets the job done. He's not an easy opponent to play. And he did what he needed to do. Unfortunately I wish I'd made a few more putts.   
  
  Q. Chance to get to world No. 1 was there today, but it's been another good week and you're knocking on the door for that, as well.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, that's the least of my worries. I mean, not getting the victory this week, or today really, was the disappointing thing. I think the World Ranking, it will come if I keep playing the way I'm playing.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT