VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What was that like to do?
 LUKE DONALD: It felt pretty good out there. I didn't give Martin too many opportunities. The odd time he snuck in a putt before me, I was able to follow it in and just kept putting the pressure on all day. It was nice to get a victory against a tough opponent. 

 Q. Game feeling almost easy at the moment?
 LUKE DONALD: Well, it's certainly nice when you step on the tee and you kind of figure out, you know pretty much where it's going, and getting more and more confident.
 The last couple of weeks, I haven't putted as well as I would have liked, but tried to hole a few more putts this week and everything seems to be coming together, which is a nice feeling.

 Q. Have you ever putted better than you have this week? You're holing everything from ten or 12 feet. 
 LUKE DONALD: They are good greens, obviously fresh greens this morning and beautiful condition greens, as well. They are in great shape and a good speed to hole putts. Just seeing the lines very well, which is an added bonus.

 Q. How valuable is a big win in terms of energy left? 
 LUKE DONALD: It is, it's been a long couple of days. It will be nice to put my feet up for a little bit, get some lunch, get refueled and look forward to whoever I play this afternoon.

 Q. How does it feel compared to going into the final at the Accenture Match Play, earlier in the year, both physically and mentally?
 LUKE DONALD: Physically just as tiring. I've obviously played a couple of weeks -- or I played last week at Sawgrass, a long week, and played 29 holes there on Sunday. There's been a lot of golf. So physically it's just as tiring.
 Mentally, probably not quite as tiring, just because I didn't have a win back then. I think putting pressure on yourself to win is tough. But you know, having already won a tournament, the pressure is off me a little bit, so I'll be going out there and having some fun.

 Q. You'll become world No. 1 if you win this afternoon; is that in the back of your mind?
 LUKE DONALD: It would be an added bonus and a great accomplishment. Hopefully it will happen. We'll have to see.

 Q. This championship has a fantastic history; is it one you dreamt of winning as a kid?
 LUKE DONALD: Definitely, I remember watching it coming out as a kid, walking around Wentworth when I was just a young toddler. So I was looking forward to coming here this week. It's got a great tradition. There's a lot of great names on that trophy, and we'll just see if I can put mine on there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT