VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEVE TODD: Thanks for joining us. Looks like the form continues there, nice victory over Ryan. If you can just take us through the day.
 LUKE DONALD: Again, it was just a solid day. I played very nicely. I think I threw in five birdies today, a couple of dropped shots. 
 Again, it was nice to get up early, keep my nose ahead and to finish it off with a couple of birdies on 14, 15 was very gratifying, as well. 
 So, it was a solid day. I didn't give him too many opportunities. Ryan struggled a little on the greens early to put the pressure on, but other than that, it was a good start to the week. 
 STEVE TODD: A little different from Accenture in terms of playing the group games, but it's also important to get off to a quick start just to get the confidence going again.
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I've got some momentum on my side. Being out there, I've got a win under my belt, and so I believe that at the very least, I'm in a playoff, right, to get through, the worst-case scenario.
 I'll approach tomorrow just like I did today. Ross will be a tough opponent. He's played well around here before. But it will be more of the same. I'll be going out there trying to get the victory and be thinking about the possible scenarios I suppose. 

 Q. Can you remember the last time you were taken to the 18th hole in a match play, I think in Ryder Cup?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it probably would have been Jim Furyk, my singles match that I won 1-up. I was 1-up playing 18 and yeah, it was nerve racking. So I tried not to play 18 as much as I can.

 Q. Did you give us the details of the birdies?
 LUKE DONALD: 14, a drive and sand iron to about five feet. 
 Driver and a 5-iron to about 25 feet on 15 and I made it. 

 Q. You said solid day. Do you mean just normal day? 
 LUKE DONALD: You know, I played nicely today. It wasn't, certainly, a perfect round. But you know, I would have had to have caught someone playing extremely well to beat me I think.

 Q. But you expect to play solidly now?
 LUKE DONALD: It was much of the same, yeah. I continued the form I've been playing the last few months, and yeah, would I put it in the solid category. 

 Q. Have you had any banter with Lee this week about the world No. 1 or do you think if you both progress you will do? 
 LUKE DONALD: No, no banter. I think we are less fussed about it than some of you guys are. It's obviously a great accolade and accomplishment to be No. 1, and Lee has done that already and I would love to be No. 1. 
 But certainly it's something I'm not really thinking about again. If I go out and win, then that's a great outcome. It would be a great achievement. 

 Q. With so many outstanding players at the moment, does it ever feel as though it's a shootout between you two? 
 LUKE DONALD: I don't think so. I think No. 1 is more up for it grabs now for many people. 
 Obviously week-to-week it seems like it's between the three of us the last couple of months, but certainly there's people lurking behind that if they have a good run, can get in the mix, as well. 
 Certainly different to the days when Tiger had such a big lead. It's just something added to the mix, something to shoot for or something to -- just something different to be interested in for us and for the fans.

 Q. Do you hope he might be there in the final against you or do you hope he gets walloped?
 LUKE DONALD: I'll just take whoever comes. (Laughter).
 I would love to play Lee. Just like playing Martin in the final at Tucson, I knew he was going to No. 1 regardless. It's more satisfaction when you can take down the best player in the world. And Lee is No. 1 right now so, it wouldn't be any different. 

 Q. Did you get to the stage where coming to a match-play tournament, you actually rub your hands and think, lovely, bring it on, because you've been in such fine form in match play?
 LUKE DONALD: Well, so far. Again, I haven't had too many disappointments in match play. There have been a lot of positives. I do enjoy the format. I've been very successful at it. 
 So, of course, yeah, I'm always looking forward to it. 
 STEVE TODD: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT