THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So far, so good, huh? 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, that was a solid couple of days. Obviously I struggled a little bit with my game yesterday. Really grinded out some good pars today. It was a little bit easier. Hit a bunch of greens and gave myself a lot of opportunities. It's satisfying to keep a bogey off my card.

 Q. Spent some time at 18 today, and it looked like it was so slippery, that green. People were very few able to make any putts of any distance. If that holds up throughout the weekend, what does that mean for how you approach things in?
 LUKE DONALD: I just think it's a pin you can get close to because it funnels towards it, but it's slopy around the hole. It's a tough read. I under-read mine by a good six inches. 
 We know where the pins are going to be. They're going to be top right probably tomorrow, and back left. 18 is always a tough hole. Always plays the hardest hole. You're going to need a par to win on that hole. It's a tough job. But I played it solidly the last two days.

 Q. Considering how much trouble is around this course, what kind of accomplishment is going 36 without a bogey? 
 LUKE DONALD: Well, yesterday was more of an accomplishment than today. I struggled on 14 today, that was about the only hole I really had to make a good putt for par, otherwise it was a pretty solid round. 
 But yesterday was pretty impressive. If you watch me all 18 holes, then I hit a couple of loose tee shots. I made a couple putts of 20 feet or more for pars among another couple of great up-and-downs. So yesterday was a lot more impressive than today.

 Q. What did you hit on 17? 
 LUKE DONALD: Pitching wedge. It's a good number.

 Q. Do you ever feel comfortable? 
 LUKE DONALD: On 17? 

 Q. No matter how well you strike the ball, are you comfortable? 
 LUKE DONALD: No, I think, you know, I read some tweet, might have been you. But you look and everyone kind of has some hope in their minds, some concern, confusion, you kind of nailed it. 
 But it's funny. When I pulled the club back on that one, I saw some grass coming into me and it was meant to be straight downwind. But it was a bit late to stop the swing, so I went off and it worked out pretty well.

 Q. Overall was the wind much tougher coming in? 
 LUKE DONALD: It was. It was certainly calm when I was warming up, and as soon as I got to the second green, the wind and the flags by the practice area started blowing a little bit and fluttering around. 
 It was tricky out there. The wind definitely was stronger than it was yesterday. I'm not sure how it was yesterday afternoon, but it certainly felt more difficult this afternoon.

 Q. Even more of an accomplishment to be where you are with the wind? 
 LUKE DONALD: I think it's accomplishment anywhere. This is a tough course. There is a lot of danger lurking. It is pretty easy to slip up around this course. So it's pretty satisfying to go without making a bogey 36 holes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT