MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I didn't quite cut my drive in and had an awkward stance right up against the bunker and shot really came off perfectly. It's a drill I work on sometimes where I get my left foot in front of my right foot and was able to hit a pretty good shot and, you know, couldn't believe it when it hit the pin. I thought that I was going to have a really good birdie putt and when I hit the pin, I was just a little bit more determined to try and make that. 
 You don't want to know what I said under my breath when I made it, but obviously, yeah, glad it went in. 

 Q. What's it been like to be part of this this afternoon? It's incredibly exciting for us to watch. 
 LUKE DONALD: I don't think I've ever seen a Masters this close. Just looking at the leaderboards coming down the back nine, it's just been changing all day long. And a number of people have had a chance to win and it's still a little bit open. 

 Q. What was your own back nine like? How would you describe your ride from 10 to the finish?
 LUKE DONALD: It was a little bit of a roller coaster. Obviously great birdie on 10 and then my really a poor swing on 12. I was aiming a little bit left of that, I pushed a 9-iron, and I paid the penalty. But I dug in deep, you know, every time I made a mistake this week I've come back and made a birdie and I just tried to shrug it off. I felt very comfortable out there, I didn't feel too nervous and I gave it my best shot.

 Q. Is it a little bit of frustration that it might just not be enough for the playoff?
 LUKE DONALD: No, both. I dug in deep. I hit some great shots when I needed to, unfortunately Augusta's like that, you're going to hit a couple shots that you can pay the price dearly. And obviously 12 I'll definitely rue that shot for awhile.

 Q. It seemed like in a blink you were 3-over and from there on out you just played beautifully over the four days. What do you take away from the week?
 LUKE DONALD: I just need to get off to a better start. That's what I need to take away. 
 Yeah, I was a little hesitant getting out of the gates and, but I think I'm pleased with the way I dug in there. As I said, I made a bunch of birdies and gave myself a chance on Sunday, which is what you always want to do.

 Q. It's shown its teeth Augusta with Rory, hasn't it?
 LUKE DONALD: Well, I think Augusta got it right this year. They really set the course up well. It's obviously been, I would imagine, one of the best Masters to watch in terms of jockeying for positions. 
 The greens were receptive, there were birdies out there, but as you said, you have to respect Augusta and there's some big numbers out there as well.

 Q. Rory is on pace to shoot an 80 right now. What can you say about what that experience is like in a Major Championship, not saying that you have been through it to that degree, but on that stage. 
 LUKE DONALD: It's tough. My heart goes out to him. He's a young player, he'll bounce back, I'm sure. He's great, he's got a great future ahead of him. But he's just got to take the learning experience from this and try and get better. 
 I think that it's never easy to lead from the front, especially with a lead, and you know, when I saw he made triple on 10 and backed it up with a couple more tough holes on 11 and 12 my heart went out to him. 

 Q. From your point of view do you feel you're getting closer and closer this week?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I feel I'm improving, I'm getting better. And I'm getting, I'm going in the right direction. So it's a good thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT