MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Thoughts on the day?
 LUKE DONALD: Thoughts on the day? Well, you know, when I got to 3-under through nine I thought I could maybe sneak a couple on the back nine, but I didn't play the par-5s quite well enough today, even par, but still a very solid day. It's put me in a good position, I still got a great chance tomorrow, which is always the goal at Majors to be in contention and have a chance. 

 Q. You bounced back with a birdie at 14. 
 LUKE DONALD: 13, kind of laid up where I wanted to and just tried to have a straightforward little chip and run and not really a shot I practice too much, a chip and run with a wedge over a water hazard. Yeah, I duffed it. I mean, I completely hit a terrible shot there. But I was able to put that behind me quickly and birdie 14. 

 Q. Were you looking at the boards? Are you aware of what was going on?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, they're big and white and they're everywhere. They're hard to ignore. 
 I know some guys were making some birdies, but they certainly weren't running away. And again, I would have loved to have snuck a couple more, but that's how it is.

 Q. You're in a good position though. 
 LUKE DONALD: Absolutely I'm in a good position.

 Q. Is the mentality on Sunday of any Major to become more aggressive, more conservative?
 LUKE DONALD: Again, I think that we have got to try and figure that out on the first couple holes, see how the greens are reacting. If they're getting a little firmer and a little crustier, then you got to be really thinking about that out there that you can't be as aggressive as we have been the last few days. 
 But if they're still holding, then try and make some birdies.

 Q. That said, do you dream of, you know, Phil Mickelson here, he hit the shot into 13. Do you dream of those kind of like Major moments where you can just sort of seize it and be aggressive?
 LUKE DONALD: Absolutely. That's kind of why we practice a lot to put ourselves in those positions so we can hit the shots and have one opportunity, one moment to hit it absolutely perfect. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LUKE DONALD: When Zach Johnson won I was around the same I think. I know playing the 9th, I was one shot out of the lead and made a triple there and ended up finishing 10th that year. 

 Q. Have you learned some lessons from that experience that you might take on to the golf course tomorrow?
 LUKE DONALD: I'm always learning. Just to stay within yourself, try to stay patient, be aggressive when you can, don't be afraid to make mistakes.

 Q. The emotions you'll be experiencing tomorrow, how do you think they will compare to a Ryder Cup?
 LUKE DONALD: Similar, but different. It's an individual game out there. I'll just have John on the bag, I won't have 11 teammates and a captain behind me. 
 But a similar atmosphere, Augusta's always a lot of fun on the back nine with the crowds that will be very boisterous and very loud and I would love to be able to please them with some good shots.

 Q. Having the other 11 makes it easier or harder to go through?
 LUKE DONALD: I think harder in a certain degree. Just because you don't want to let them down. You know, if I let myself down then I can live with that, I can know that I worked hard and I gave it my best shot, but you don't want to let down your teammates. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT