MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 LUKE DONALD: It was good. I think I probably tied my low round out here, so that's progress. I made a couple mistakes around the turn, but seven birdies is good out here. I think the greens are still reasonably receptive, so if you hit good shots you can score.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday you felt a little apprehensive. How were the emotions today?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I feel like I'm getting into the tournament now. The nervous energy from the first round is gone, and hopefully I can continue to make some more birdies.  
  
  Q. You are known to have one of the best short games in the world. How big an asset is that here?   
 LUKE DONALD: It helps, certainly helps. Making putts is important. You know, you're going to be faced with some tricky shots out there, and you need a little bit more imagination than you would most weeks. But lovely chip-in on 11; I think that was a big -- got the momentum going back on the back side.  
  
  Q. Do you fancy your chances this weekend?  
 LUKE DONALD: Absolutely. We'll have to see what the boys do behind us, but I've definitely given myself a good shot.   
  
  Q. You said yesterday you weren't quite ready to go yesterday on the front nine. Any better today?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, seven birdies, so obviously got off to a fast start, which I've struggled to do that in previous years around here. 3-under through 5 really set me up well. I made a couple stumbles around the turn but then came back strongly with some more birdies on the back nine. Very happy with the way the day went and back in a great position.  
  
  Q. The best you've played since your debut here in 2005?  
 LUKE DONALD: Certainly, yeah. I think this tied the lowest round I've had around here. I'm very happy about that.  
  
  Q. What do you think is the reason for that?   
 LUKE DONALD: I think I'm learning. I'm just getting a little bit better as a golfer. Every day you're continually trying to work on things just to keep getting better, and it's nice to show up with some results.   
  
  Q. How do you look going into the weekend at 4-under? How do you feel about that position?  
 LUKE DONALD: I feel like I'm in good shape, in a good position. Weekend is only going to get tougher. I think the greens so far have been reasonably friendly in terms of softness. I'm sure that will change and it will be more about grinding out some good pars and picking up a few birdies now and again. It's fun out there. You know, you can make a number but you can also make a bunch of birdies, which I think the fans are loving.  
  
  Q. You had a bit of support on the way out, little youngster?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I saw my daughter walking, and it was nice to see that.   
  
  Q. What was your mood at 3-over?   
 LUKE DONALD: You know, Augusta back nine, you can definitely still make a move. I was able to do that fortunately. I wasn't exactly thrilled with the start, but I still knew it was a long way. I think I've played here enough times that I know you can get on some runs and get back in the tournament quickly. Fortunately that happened 14, 15 and 16, so you know, it wasn't a great start, but I certainly didn't panic.  
  
  Q. How impressive is Fred Couples at 51 to do what he does out there?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, very impressive. He still has got it. He swings freely. He's hitting it straight and long out there and just doesn't make too many mistakes. He's always in a good position. He obviously has good experience around this place, and he's playing very nicely right now.  
  
  Q. What's more impressive, that he can hit it as far as he does at 51 or is that he's still cool at 51?  
 LUKE DONALD: I don't think his character is ever going to change. He's always going to be laid-back Freddie. He's keeping limber. His back is always bothering him a little bit, but it's nice to watch that swing.   
  
  Q. With 68 today do you feel like you're getting the hang of this place?  
 LUKE DONALD: Certainly. I feel like the setup is reasonably -- it's very fair right now. The greens are holding. The greens are holding so you can make some birdies out there.  
  
  Q. Rory McIlroy is flying at the moment, long way to go. What about the chances of catching him and winning this thing?  
 LUKE DONALD: I mean, it's early days. 36 holes is very early. The weekends only get tougher, and there will be a lot of pressure on the leading guys. But I think I'm in a good position.   
  
  Q. What do you think the winning score could be?   
 LUKE DONALD: Depends if they want to get the greens a little firmer or not. Right now they're very receptive, and I think you're going to have to keep making birdies. But there's still a few juicy pins they've left out there.   
  
  Q. Do you think it could be 12, 13, 14, something like that?  
 LUKE DONALD: It could be, very well could be. Wind is probably not going to be a factor. It's going to be hot and the ball is going to be traveling. But it's whether they make the greens firm. If they make them firm I think they'll be lower than that.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT