WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2011
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAUL SYMES: Thanks for coming in, Luke. You must be pretty pleased with that performance this morning.  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, always nice to win your first match. I like to win it pretty easily. I played pretty solidly today. I don't think Charley was in his best form. A win is a win, and going to the next round so it feels good.   
 PAUL SYMES: Hopefully it will be a long week for you.  
 LUKE DONALD: Yes, it can be a very trying week, but we'll see what happens. But it's nice to finish early and have a little bit of the rest of the day to hit some balls and practice and just kind of take it easy.   
  
  Q. Did you feel from the start today that that was going to be your match, because within a few holes you were sort of pulling away from him?  
 LUKE DONALD: No. I think Charley is a great player. He showed us that at the Deutsche Bank last year, he certainly is a good player, and I hadn't played a lot of golf with Charley, but he hits the ball very straight and long and he can be very good on the greens.  
 I think you always go into matches expecting them to be tough, and I think at the end of -- just near the end of the match I heard Charley say he played a lot of tournaments this year and maybe was already feeling it a little bit. So I don't know if that was why he didn't play so well today, but I'll still take the win.  
  
  Q. You, yourself, you've had quite a nice break, winter break. Have you come out feeling really fresh, has that helped you a lot?  
 LUKE DONALD: Certainly, that's the longest off-season I've had for, oh, probably seven or eight years. I think in previous years I've played Tiger's event and started again in the Sony. So a week off maybe without touching clubs and back at the practice.  
 So this year I decided to try something different, spend a little bit more time at home with my new daughter, put the clubs away for a little bit more of an extended period but also have some time to work on a few things that I felt like I needed to work on.  
  
  Q. And fatherhood, has that changed the way you feel about yourself, sort of the way you approach the game, the way you approach life?  
 LUKE DONALD: I think childhood changes everything, you certainly have more responsibility, a little bit different perception on life. But it certainly hasn't changed my work ethic. I'm still out there practicing hard and working hard. But if you have a bad day like I did on Friday last week, you come home to a smiling baby, it kind of makes it a little easier to swallow.  
  
  Q. And two years ago here you pulled out on the 18th green, was it or before you teed off --  
 LUKE DONALD: Before I teed off, that was just some scar tissue that flared up and I was back, you know, I missed one weaning and I was back at it. The last two years really the wrist has been very solid and giving me no troubles.  
  
  Q. You obviously really enjoy match play, you've shown your skills at this format at Ryder Cup and things, do you feel that this could really be your week?  
 LUKE DONALD: Certainly, you know, I'm going to have to play great. It's a long week. I wouldn't say the course is a great course for me, but I certainly know how to win. A lot of these guys hit it 30, 40 yards past me like Charley did today. But I have a good short game and I can put pressure on people by not making too many mistakes. And I think that's one of the strengths I have in match play.  
 PAUL SYMES: Thanks, Luke.   
   
    
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT