WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Third Round 68 (-10) 206 Total.

 Q. Looking at 10-under par on the leaderboard so far, it's been a good week?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, a good week. I think today was probably the best 68 of my life. I really didn't play that great but I got everything out of it. 
 So glad to get in at 10-under. I need to play a little bit better tomorrow if I'm going to have a chance. 

 Q. When you say you got everything out of it, what in particular did you get out of it?
 LUKE DONALD: Four birdies, no bogeys really. Yeah, I was lacking a little energy today. I've just been under the weather a little bit the last few days, and I had to really big deep to make a few birdies out there. I made a few poor swings. I wasn't hitting the ball very far, but I was able to get it around.

 Q. After a run like this, what are your expectations for tomorrow?
 LUKE DONALD: Hopefully rest up and feel a little stronger tomorrow and go out and make an early run. I think obviously the guys behind, Frankie and Lee, are playing solid. Going to have to take a low one tomorrow for me to catch them.

 Q. Looking at the setup of the golf course, is it getting tougher and tougher, day by day? 
 LUKE DONALD: It is. A little bit more wind today. The greens are definitely firming up and getting a bit faster. So it's kind of having that last-day-of-a-Major feel. The greens are a little bit lighter in colour, and it's getting tricky out there. 
 I got a lot out of it today. I didn't play my best. Felt a little bit under the weather, a little bit low on energy. But I was able to grind out four birdies and minimise my mistakes. I was a little bit like Seve out there; whenever I missed greens, I was getting up-and-down and really relying on some good short game to keep the momentum going.

 Q. Under the weather, because? 
 LUKE DONALD: Just been suffering from a bit of a sinus infection unfortunately. Something I actually suffer from a few times a year and just happened to be this week.

 Q. Is that something, as well, with Shanghai; pollution levels are not bad this time around, but the atmosphere can be awkward. 
 LUKE DONALD: Just Monday before I got here actually, I was starting to feel like I was coming down with something. So I'm not going to blame it on the pollution. Just unfortunate timing.

 Q. As someone who has come are here year on here, this is good; this is good atmosphere at this event, in many ways, the actual air and the people involved. 
 LUKE DONALD: Being in the last couple of groups, there's a lot of crowds out there. Obviously the weather has been perfect all week. It's been ideal conditions. The course is starting to firm up and especially the greens, and it's becoming tougher out there.

 Q. Have you noticed a change in this tournament down the years?
 LUKE DONALD: This is my first time back here since 2006. I haven't been here for a few years. But it obviously attracts a great field and it's nice to see all of the best players in the world merge in China. It's good for golf and it's good for China and it's good for both tours. 

 Q. HSBC have always staged a good event, but the behaviour of the people on the course and the numbers watching you, you've probably seen a change over four years in that. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, absolutely. I think golf is becoming a lot more recognised over here. People are respecting the game a little bit more. Obviously they realise not to snap photos on your downswing and all that kind of stuff. They have been a great crowd. They support the players out here and they look forward to this tournament every year. 

 Q. And they know their golf a bit more, as well. 
 LUKE DONALD: They do, yeah. They have a lot more knowledge and you can tell that just in the way they applaud certain shots and not other shots. 
 So it's good to see. 

 Q. What do you have to do tomorrow? 
 LUKE DONALD: I need to rest up, first. Get some energy in me and then come out firing, really. I think Francesco and Lee look like they are playing very solidly, and it's going to take a low one for me to catch them. 

 Q. It's quite something for the world No. 1 after this layoff. I know we saw it at The Ryder Cup, but it's a huge performance, isn't it. 
 LUKE DONALD: Oh, it is. And you know, he's not just getting it around; he's puring it by the looks of it. Just looking back on a few of those holes, he's hitting it long and straight. That's a good combination around this course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT