RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2016
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Honestly, Branden got off to a hot start and you just had a problem making birdies.  What was the feeling out there as he came out and outplayed you?  
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I guess next year I've got to do that, be three or four back, heading into Sunday.  That seems to be the sweet spot.  I played okay today, I just had a couple of shots that just wouldn't quite go in.  And I was expecting someone to play well.  And it was a great round from Branden.   
 Q.  What is it about this golf course where it may promote somebody coming from behind, is there something to that?  
LUKE DONALD: There's less pressure on the people chasing.  It's harder to lead on a Sunday.  When I made birdie on 9, I made bogey on 10 and lost some momentum there and couldn't quite get it back.   
 Q.  Do you still believe your time is coming here?  
LUKE DONALD: My best finish before this was about 23rd, 22nd.  So this is a great step in the right direction.  I'm really positive about my game going forward, positive about the way I handled it today.  I didn't quite get it done.  But I'm excited about playing next week.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
LUKE DONALD: It was.  I think the greens are a great protector.  Especially when we have weather like this and they're able to keep it firm, scoring is never great.  It was tough.  It was tough to get it close.  The wind direction was a little bit different today than what we thought was going to happen at the beginning of the round.  But I just didn't quite make the putts when I needed to.   
 Q.  What do you take out of this week moving forward?  
LUKE DONALD: A lot of positives.  To be in contention, have a chance, that's what you want to do.  You keep putting yourself in those positions.  That's the first one I've had this year, so I'm excited to hopefully build off this for next week.   
 Q.  You mentioned you wanted to be a little bit more aggressive than previous final rounds.  Were you able to do that with the firm greens and the change in wind direction?  
LUKE DONALD: Again, I think as tough as this place played, you still had to play the right shot.  Obviously making bogey on 10 from the middle of the fairway, that was disappointing.  I didn't get the opportunity to get one close there and build off the birdie on 9.  But I made bogey there and that was a little bit of a momentum killer.  I had some chances.  I had a good chance on 11, on 13, 15, even 16, 17 I also had chances, but it wasn't to be.   
 Q.  Do you walk away from here ever asking what does it take to --  
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I think I've got to put myself three or four behind on Sunday.  Leading doesn't seem to be working out for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT