WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Second Round 70 (-6) 138 Total.  
   
  Q. Give us your thoughts, that's a decent position at halfway?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I didn't play quite as well today, but very steady again. I didn't do too much -- didn't do a lot wrong. Made one bogey on 9, three birdies and it was kind of a steady day, no real fireworks but it looks like it's kept me there or thereabouts.   
  
  Q. That's encouraging, isn't it, if you're not having one of your best days that you're only three off the lead?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I don't think the scores were quite as good today. I don't know why. The ball wasn't travelling very far. The course was playing reasonably long. It seemed a bit longer today. But yeah, obviously Francesco is playing nicely, but he's only three ahead, so still in with a good chance.  
  
  Q. Were the pins tougher today?   
 LUKE DONALD: I don't know. Maybe a few were on a few ridges but the greens almost felt a little bit softer today, so I would have thought you could have got to them.   
 But again, it was tough to get the right clubs out there, for me. The ball wasn't travelling quite as far as I thought it would be.   
  
  Q. Your thoughts on the course overall? Is it one that suits you?   
 LUKE DONALD: I think it's a good course. I'd love to be able to carry the ball a little bit further. There's a few holes where there's some bunkers and doglegs where if you can carry it a bit further, it's a big advantage.  
 But I'm still playing nicely and 6-under, and could have been a couple more with a couple putts. Missed obviously one on 9 and a short one on 16, too.   
 So still, I'm right there, though.  
  
  Q. You had a great Ryder Cup, top points-scorer for Europe, how has it been after that? Is it difficult to get going again, or are you still enjoying the reflection of it or where are you with The Ryder Cup?   
 LUKE DONALD: Well, I'm still enjoying trying to relive some of those moments. I think trying to create that excitement, that vibe, when I'm just out there playing individually, but it's a hard thing to do. A lot of people have tried to do it in the past and it's very hard to do.  
 But you know, I'm still trying to use The Ryder Cup as a little bit of momentum in terms of trying to maintain that excitement, that vibe on the golf course, and I'm working off that.  
  
  Q. Is there a particular memory from the Ryder Cup that you use in that, whether it be on the course or off the course?   
 LUKE DONALD: There are a whole lot, really, start to finish, just an amazing week.  
  
  Q. It was a special Monday, there was a fear it might not peter out, you know what I mean, but it certainly picked up, didn't it.   
 LUKE DONALD: Oh, it was great. The fans couldn't have been more supportive. Still had 35,000 I think that day. Felt like a Sunday. So it was nice to have all of that support and especially the first few groups I think on the singles, we had a lot of people watching us. So it was a great atmosphere and yeah it was great that the result went our way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT