THE RYDER CUP
October 3, 2010
Luke Donald
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us how that feels. 
 LUKE DONALD: It feels great. We thought they were going to come out strong, and we needed to come out stronger. You know, that putt Westy holed on 10 was just magnificent. I mean, just now I can't even put it into words. It's just amazing to see that go in, and to go 5-up just gave us a huge boost and hopefully it ran through the team.

 Q. Your record in foursomes is nearly as impressive as this fellow, you haven't lost since Brookline 1999, you've played Tiger seven times and I think won six of them. What's the secret? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I've had good partners. That certainly has a lot to do with it, and you know when you're playing Tiger, you just seem to up your game a little bit.
 I suppose he's got nothing to win, apart from the point, but he's got a big reputation, and it seems like you go out with nothing to lose. So we played great today. That was some scoring in foursomes combinations.

 Q. Started this third session six points behind, but this point was worth more than one, wasn't it? 
 LUKE DONALD: I think so. You know, seeing that they won both their matches, they were 2-0. It was nice to go out there and just show that they are beatable. So we played great together. Hats off to Lee. He was an unbelievable partner. 

 Q. Obviously you needed to get the momentum, so important, you've gone out there and got it, that inspires the guys behind, doesn't it?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think so Monty wanted us to go out and make a fast start this afternoon and get some momentum going, and that putt was just the right way, get the crowd up for it and get them cheering so everyone else can hear it around the golf course so they can see a big winning margin go up on the board; it does a lot for everybody's confidence. 

 Q. Out to support your mates now?
 LUKE DONALD: Absolutely, yeah. It's nice to know that you don't have a 30-minute turnaround and we can go out there and support the guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT