BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Some days it's fun, some days it's work. I saw you smiling coming off 18, but it looked like work out there.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, you know, I played nicely today. It wasn't easy. Obviously a little bit more wind today. The greens were a bit inconsistent; some were soft, some were hard. It was just hard to judge. I gave back a couple shots coming in but birdied the last.  
  
  Q. Everybody is in this thing for the weekend, aren't they?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah it's a little different. Last year I believe scores were a little bit lower. But for whatever reason it's pretty bunched up there. I'm not going to be too far back.  
  
  Q. Conditions much more difficult this afternoon than they were yesterday morning?  
 LUKE DONALD: A little bit more wind. Again, the greens were a little bit inconsistent because of hardness, and that made it a little bit tricky. But yeah, maybe just a shot harder.  
  
  Q. You have the opportunity to put yourself in position in the top 5, the critical top 5 where you can control your own destiny. How are you approaching playing this golf tournament and still playing the game?   
 LUKE DONALD: No different than really most weeks, same four rounds, just going out there and trying to play the course the best way I know I can play it. I've played steady the last couple days. I'll be only a couple back right now, and I'm in good position.  
  
  Q. Can I get you to comment on your day for us real quick?   
 LUKE DONALD: You know, a solid day. I'm disappointed to drop a couple coming in, but to finish off with a birdie, I'm right there and in a good position. I felt pretty much in control of the ball today, and the only thing I found tricky out there really was the greens. They were a little bit inconsistent with the firmness. Some were soft, some were kind of bouncing on, and it was kind of hard to guess which way it was going to go. But all in all, I hit a lot of good shots today.   
  
  Q. A couple players have said they thought the pin placements were a little more tricky today. Do you agree with that?   
 LUKE DONALD: I don't know. It was pretty similar positions. Obviously they're moving them around a little bit because of the greens, but you know, tournaments week in, week out, they seem to be the same. They put them in the four corners. I don't know, you have some hard, some difficult, some easy. But I didn't really think they were much more difficult than previous pin locations. I thought they were about the same.  
  
  Q. Can the front locations make it tougher due to the inconsistency of the greens?  
 LUKE DONALD: It can be, yeah. I'm trying to think which was on the front. 6 was on the front. I left that shot short. 15 was on the front with the tee up so you were only using a sand iron. Again, yeah, it was a little inconsistent. I had a few spin back. 9 and 8 had a little bit of spin, but some of the others were releasing, so it's just tricky to kind of judge.  
  
  Q. Do you like your position going into the weekend?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I'm in solid position. I don't know where Kuchar will finish, but seems like 6-under is leading right now, so a couple back. I'm in a great position.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT