DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We were talking on the break about how exciting golf in America in September has gotten. You're right in the mix now, and it's got a real good buzz to it. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, there was a good many fans out here today. I think having that FedExCup and the Playoffs system has really helped kind of make the end of the season a little bit more fun, and the guys are out here, and it's great for the players, too, playing tournaments like this. It's fun.

 Q. You came into this week as a captain's pick for the Ryder Cup. How has that helped you heading into this week?
 LUKE DONALD: I think I actually felt more relaxed obviously leading up to the picks. It was anyone's guess who was going to be selected. But to be one of the picks, there was some relief there, and now I'm just enjoying being out here and also looking forward to (indiscernible). 

 Q. It looks like the Northwestern colors worked out for you today. You mentioned patience this morning, and you definitely showed some patience out there today. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it was a slightly different golf course, I thought. The greens were firmer, significantly faster, and you just had to be pretty patient out there. I played really nicely on the back nine, though, gave myself a lot of chances. Even the holes coming in, 15 and 16 I had great chances and missed those, so I could have gone really low on the back.
 Yeah, really happy the way I finished up, hit a lot of good shots coming down the stretch, and it was nice to sneak a birdie on the last.

 Q. That was a great up-and-down there at 18. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, thanks. I didn't hit the best drive and really didn't know really where to go. I didn't think I could hold the green from the semi-cut, but where I ended up wasn't a bad spot, and I was able to get it up-and-down.

 Q. Last week at the Barclays you were picked by Colin Montgomerie as one of the captain's picks for the Ryder Cup team. Has that taken pressure off of you since then?
 LUKE DONALD: Certainly it's one less thing to think about. With that behind me, I'm obviously excited to be there. I'm looking forward to it, and hopefully this week my playing has consolidated Monty's decision in picking me. 

 Q. How did you get yourself in this position?
 LUKE DONALD: I played really solidly on the back nine today. I played nicely on the front but didn't get much out of it, and then on the back nine hit a lot of quality shots and was able to shoot a really good number and put myself in a great position.

 Q. As this golf course has gotten drier and firmer and faster, is it more gettable than it was the first couple days, or are you just playing better?
 LUKE DONALD: I certainly played better today. I struck the ball tee to green much better than the first two days, and I putted nicely on the back nine. I don't think the course is any easier, it's just getting harder. When you get firm greens and fast greens, it becomes a little bit tougher, and that's what we're getting.

 Q. How much fun is this? How much are you looking forward to a big spot on Monday here to try to win this tournament?
 LUKE DONALD: I am looking forward to it. This is crunch time in our season. FedExCup if you can play well and put yourself in a great position to make the TOUR Championship and have a chance to win that Cup, then it means you've had a great year, and I'm on track right now. 

 Q. Can you just talk about your round a little bit? Nice 30 on the back nine. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I've had a few good nine holes the last couple tournaments. I played really solidly actually coming in. I didn't miss too many shots, and even could have been a couple lower. I missed a decent chance on 15 and 16. But played really nicely and really took advantage of some good golf. 

 Q. Was the putter just working well? Are you putting it close?
 LUKE DONALD: I actually hit the ball a lot better today. The last couple days I've struggled a little bit, especially off the tee, and I drove it much better today, hit more fairways and gave myself a lot of opportunities, so really happy with the way I played. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT