ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 28, 2019
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  64 today to move yourself into contention. Talk us through the technique on the final shot on 18?  
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I had 53 yards. Just nipped it nicely and rolled in. Yeah, pretty happy about that. Nice to make a 2 on the 18th hole at the Old Course.   
 Q.  It's a very special place and special tournament, playing with your friend, Jamie Redknapp. How much does that help you?  
LUKE DONALD: It definitely helps. I think I've always enjoyed this event. It's so individual, our sport, it's nice to get into a team atmosphere, which this week is. It's great to have Jamie, a good friend of mine. We feel very relaxed out there. He played great, made some putts. We shot 57 today, so that's pretty good around the Old Course.   
 Q.  You have done a lot in the world of golf already, how do you think you're going to feel? It's been a while since you've been in position.  
LUKE DONALD: Sure, there's nerves every round, but that's to be expected. I've certainly been putting in time in with my game and nice to see some results finally. I'll go out there and enjoy it, and hopefully shoot another low one.   
 Q.  Remarkable shot at 18, can you talk us through it?  
LUKE DONALD: A decent drive but hit it in the upslope and came up 50 yards short of the green. Fortunately I was on the upslope and just pick it nicely and rolled in. Very happy to see that go in, and what a hole to make a 2 and eagle to finish the round off.   
 Q.  Are you confident going into Sunday now?  
LUKE DONALD: Well, there's a lot of good players up there. Scoring is very low. I'm sure tomorrow will be more of the same. You'll have to go out there and shoot a very low number if I'm going to have a chance. But certainly shot some good rounds around this course, and hopefully another one tomorrow.   
 Q.  As you say, people going very low. What do you think is the key to the low scoring?  
LUKE DONALD: Well, the pin positions are reasonably generous for the amateurs. They are not too tucked and the greens are reasonably soft. There was some wind today. Certainly wasn't easy, especially going out that front nine. But the wind down on the back nine makes the back nine certainly more scorable than it usually is.   
 Q.  Obviously a very special golf course. How special is it to play on the Old Course?  
LUKE DONALD: Well, the Dunhill Links, The Open Championship, and if they have any ladies Open Championship, nobody plays on a Sunday, and it's an honor to play St. Andrews any time, and when you're playing on a Sunday, it's even more special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT