DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Started off with a bogey but pretty good throughout the rest of the day.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, you know, I didn't hit it the best actually today, but I played really well, and that can always carry you through. I holed some long ones out there today and kind of got away with a few shots out there. Happy to get the round in, and yeah, good start to the week.  
  
  Q. I talked to your caddie while you were inside signing your card and we talked about your L-wedge. Can you walk through the process of what you were going through there on 18, that little yardage number and the new wedge and not quite sure how far it was going to go?  
 LUKE DONALD: Well, I switched wedges last week, and I think new wedges always spin a little bit more. They don't tend to go quite as far. My lob wedge I can usually hit about 90 yards, and I had 85 there, and I was just worried if I hit it full, one, it wouldn't pitch the full distance, and then two, it might spin a little bit too much. So decided to go with a little sand iron and of course didn't get the spin and lipped out the putt. But all in all, 6-under was a good result for the way I played.  
  
  Q. And it's nice for the viewers to know that even the good players, as great a wedge player as you are, you've still got to think out there because they have trouble with their wedges, too.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I blame the caddie (laughing). It wasn't a bad shot, just expecting it to spin a little bit more, and it didn't.   
  
  Q. Can you comment on the weather conditions?   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I mean, obviously it was still decent conditions considering. There was some showers out there but the wind died down, and with preferred lies and the greens being soft, I think scoring conditions are still good. You see even people this afternoon posting some good numbers. Obviously this morning was probably a little bit more ideal, no wind, sunny and drier, but certainly wasn't playing too difficult out there this afternoon.  
  
  Q. Did you think you'd get to this point and actually finish today?  
 LUKE DONALD: I think we did quite well. They said we had about a four-hour window and right now we're on about four and a half or five hours, so it's holding out pretty well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT