RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Run out of holes there? Looked like you were having a good back nine. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah. I think as the week went on, I scored a little bit better each day. But as I talked to the other media, I didn't putt well enough to probably win. I think I'm going to come up a few shots short, but I gave it a try. It's nice to be in contention on Sunday.

 Q. Did the course play a little more difficult today?
 LUKE DONALD: There's a little more wind, and the slightly different direction made it play a little bit different. I think it made the par-5s a little bit longer. Not quite as many scoring opportunities, but the greens were soft; and when the greens are soft, the guys are still going to make some birdies out there. 

 Q. You're maybe one or two short of the lead. You're only one back now. 
 LUKE DONALD: I haven't seen. I thought Carl Pettersson got to 14. 

 Q. Do you think you still might have an outside chance?
 LUKE DONALD: I'll hang around and have a look. These guys are pretty good. The closing holes aren't easy. 15 is probably a birdie chance, it being a par-5, but 16, 17, 18 tricky to make birdies, but if you're hitting solid shots, you should be able to come home all right.

 Q. Luke, another great Sunday for you. Do you ever have a bad week? Just another great one. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah. I was solid this week. You know, I was struggling all week a little bit with sinus infections and just a little bit run down; and I didn't hole enough putts this week, unfortunately. But still a great week. I think I'm going to come up a couple shots shy again, but that's disappointing not to win, but I gave it a good shot today.

 Q. You played pretty well throughout consistently. You just kind of hung in, it seems like, all week. There wasn't a big run until today at 11, 14 and 15 for you. 
 LUKE DONALD: No, and to be honest, when I birdied 15, I kind of sneaked a peak. I hadn't really looked at the leaderboard, and saw I was only two back. So it was game on. 
 Yeah, obviously hit a decent shot into 17 and a good shot into 18, but the putt just ran half speed.

 Q. A week off ahead for you because I know you got Bridgestone and the PGA coming up. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah. This is four weeks in a row. I'm looking forward to getting home, seeing my daughter, seeing my family and just relaxing for a few days.

 Q. And then the Ryder Cup points still add up at Bridgestone, at the PGA, so you're still in pretty good shape there, too. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah. And obviously some good world ranking points this week to add to that, so I'm looking pretty decent on both point systems. So yeah, all's going in the right direction.

 Q. This oughta be a good week at the Donald household. 

 Q. Another Luke-Donald-like week, very solid it seemed all week long. Came to the very end, looked like you needed that putt on 18. Maybe just slipped by.
 LUKE DONALD: I didn't feel like I putted as well as I could have this week. The greens were tricky. With a lot of slope on them, the putts uphill were pretty slow and the putts downhill didn't quite break, so it was tough to hole putts this week. But again, yeah, I think I'm going to come up a little bit short, which is disappointing, but all in all a great solid week. I think I needed to birdie those last two holes.

 Q. You chatted with us earlier in the week; you mentioned fatherhood and how that maybe solidified some of your priorities in life. Any thoughts out on the golf course about who you're going to see later tonight or tomorrow, home, fatherhood?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, obviously I'll be home in a few hours, and yeah, hopefully in time before my daughter goes to bed. But yeah, looking forward to a week off. This is four weeks in a row for me, so I'll put my feet up for a couple of days and spend some time with family. 

 Q. Some excellent play of late. You know what it's like to be at the top of the world rankings as far as NCAA play is concerned. Now part of the top of the world golf ranking. Do you see that World No. 1 as a legitimate goal, especially with some of the world rankings points you have?
 LUKE DONALD: Possibly. I need to win more tournaments. Just contending isn't good enough if you want to be the best. You gotta go out there and beat the best continually, which I haven't done in the last few years. 
 Certainly with Tiger coming back to the field, and it's certainly a possibility now in terms of numbers. But I've still gotta get a little bit better before I can think about being No. 1. But it would be a great goal. That would be a dream. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT