ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2010
Luke Donald
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Another great ground of golf and it's put you in the mix going into tomorrow's final round. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it was nice to have such a strong back nine. I played okay on the front but just nothing special, some tough pins out there on the back side. So it was nice to, you know, come back in 31 and give myself a chance. 
 Obviously I'm still a few shots back, but I'm sniffing around the leaderboard which is good.

 Q. Nice birdie on the last. Talk us through that. 
 LUKE DONALD: Not a great drive. Just leaked it a little bit onto the right semi-rough and drew a pretty good lie and hit a nice 3-iron straight at it and just came up about 15 foot short and rolled in the putts. So great way to finish on that hole. That was playing tough.

 Q. It wasn't long ago we saw a terrific run from you over in Europe, a second, a third and of course a win; this is a continuation of that wonderful form?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I feel reasonably comfortable with my game. I've been working hard and feeling comfortable about how I'm playing in Europe, but yeah, we'll have to see. Hopefully I've got one more good round in me tomorrow and I'm going to have another chance to win a tournament.

 Q. A great time to be peaking, isn't it, so many big events in the summer in Europe, must be a lot of fun for you. 
 LUKE DONALD: It's a busy time of year. I feel like we've almost got back-to-back majors coming up soon, but again, working hard on my game. I feel like it's coming around, a little bit more control on my ball flight, and looking forward to the challenges at St. Andrews. 

 Q. How are you going to approach tomorrow's final round? You have a little bit of ground to make up. What's the game plan for tomorrow?
 LUKE DONALD: It's one of those courses where if you're on, you can make some birdies, and with the greens being soft, I've got to be somewhat aggressive to some of these pins. You know, it's also a course that has a lot of danger on it and maybe the leaders will be feeling a little bit of pressure. If I can get off to a fast start, who knows. 

 Q. 31 after a fairly quiet front nine, what was the key to that? 
 LUKE DONALD: I started hitting the ball a bit better. I hit a couple of putts -- got away with a couple of drives, too, but I thought the pins were a little bit more accessible on the backsides and some really tough ones on the front side and I was able to take advantage of that.

 Q. Was it that that was keeping the scoring higher, because with the receptive greens we thought we would see really low numbers and we have not?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, it was hard to really get out on the golf course today. As you said, it was soft, but you know that made the course play a little longer. I think it sort of evened itself out, and you know, there's still a few good scores out there. 
 You know, I'm sure the guys will enjoy playing in soft conditions. 

 Q. What about tomorrow then, Luke, obviously coming from a few behind, how do you approach it? 
 LUKE DONALD: Well, more like any other day, really. You know, I think the pins, they have left some good pins for tomorrow. But the greens will be -- will continue to be soft and I think you are going to have to go out there and be somewhat aggressive. You know that even if you miss it, with the greens being soft, you should be able to get balls up-and-down. So I'll be going out there trying to take on a few pins, but you know, just trying to chip away at the course and make a few birdies. 

 Q. We know what you can do, saw it at Quail Hollow earlier in the year, fancy anything like that for tomorrow? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I think I'll need it. Tee-to-green I'm definitely in that sort of form. I just need to get the putts to drop and I feel as if I've got a low one in me but I'm struggling on the greens a little this week. I'm finding them hard to read. I've got JP in most times to see if he can see something that I can't. 
 Yeah, if I can get a few putts to drop tomorrow, I'm sure I can go lower than I have done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT