ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Thank you for coming in and joining us, obviously a rich vein of form here in Europe.
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, nice to be back in Europe. I had a nice run here a few weeks ago, and I always enjoy coming here. I've had some success in the last few weeks, so hopefully I can continue that form. 
 And from playing the course, really enjoy the golf course. It's one of the best courses I think I've played in Europe, and in great condition, and yeah, looking forward to a about week. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: What's your experience been playing here in the past, and how did you enjoy the course this morning in the Pro-Am? 
 LUKE DONALD: This is my first time to this course. I've played in France before as an amateur, but first time playing here professionally. I enjoyed the course. I thought it was a great setup. I know they are one of the countries trying to get the The Ryder Cup here, and you know, just from seeing it, it would make a fantastic venue. 

 Q. If you were to win this week, having won already and second at Wentworth, it will do a double job with points. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, actually looking at The Ryder Cup list, I'm in right now from the other list, European points list. So obviously a good run in Europe really helped. I shot up that list, and you know, with McDowell winning last week -- at the U.S. Open, he actually bumped me out of the points list. 
 So I'm obviously close with that one, too. I've got two bites at the cherry. But still, I'm in the team right now and I've just got to keep playing the way I've been playing and it should take care of itself.

 Q. Does it sort of make you think, perhaps that there's more room to play in Europe than perhaps in America? Obviously with your family situation --
 LUKE DONALD: It's tough. I enjoy coming here and have had success and a little bit more success in relation to the number of tournaments I've played compared to the U.S.
 I do feel very comfortable at home. Obviously live in Chicago; my wife, new baby, is there and my coach is there. So it's going to be hard to leave there. But you know, I'll have to think about it, but right now, quite happy the way the schedule is, playing six, seven events over here, and maybe around 18 in the U.S.
 But yeah I have to think hard if I want to come over here and commit more time. That would be quite an upheaval in terms of getting away from where I live. 

 Q. Talking about the schedule, it's almost miraculous the way everything has sort of fell into place when you've come here. 
 LUKE DONALD: It has. It has not always been that way every year but I've found some form when I happened to be over here, and was able to take advantage of it and have three great weeks. 
 But yeah can't, obviously I still enjoy playing against the best players in the world, and playing against strong fields, and this is a strong field this week. Again, I fee like to be the best player I can be, I have compete against the best players and most of the time that's in the U.S., but there's definitely some events over here that have great fields too.

 Q. Do you feel that you are in position now --
 LUKE DONALD: I'm in a great position. I'm in the team right now. I have every chance of making that team, and obviously missing it two years ago was disappointing. I was a little bit more on the outskirts of making the team two years ago, but when I got that wrist injury, that was it for me. I had no chance of making it obviously. 
 But yeah, it was disappointing to miss it, and you know, it's always been a goal of mine to make The Ryder Cup Team. It's a very special tournament. I've had some great success in it and a lot of great memories, so I hope to be there again this year. 

 Q. In terms of your career, do you feel that you're back to where you were a few years ago?
 LUKE DONALD: Sure, after finishing third in Wales, I moved to highest I've ever been in the world, got to No. 6 and made a good climb back up. Obviously since the injury, it took a little time to get that form back, get that feeling back of being confident on the golf course. 
 In the last -- this year, certainly, I feel like I've played better, and you know, I've moved up the World Rankings. I've won a tournament again, so I'm definitely moving in the right direction. I think there's still room for some more improvement, but it's nice to see a little bit more consistency in my golf and, as I said, getting back in the winner's circle is big.
 RODDY WILLIAMS: A lot of competition for Ryder Cup places at the moment and a lot of success for British golfers, European golfers in general, obviously had Graeme winning the U.S. Open, your own success, Rory, Lee, Ian Poulter.
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, Monty must be loving the results. Obviously to have a lot of strong performances here and in the U.S., with McIlroy and Rose and Westwood winning almost consecutive weeks and McDowell winning the U.S. Open, it's all going very much the European way. It's great. It's great for our confidence. It's great for the Tour. I think on paper this year, we might be on paper for the first time a stronger team. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Obviously some big weeks, this week as you mentioned, this week is a good field for you, two weeks down the line, St. Andrews.
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I've always wanted to play here. I've heard great things about this golf course, and obviously it's got a great field. So looking forward to this week, and you know, I've had some -- I've played some decent rounds at St. Andrews before, so it's a place I know quite well and feel reasonably comfortable around. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Luke, thanks very much for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT