THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 4, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You knew teeing off that you had to break 70 to make the cut, did that affect your tactics going out?
 LUKE DONALD: I don't think so. Yesterday I didn't play that badly. I just struggled on the greens more than anything, 33, 34 putts. I can't remember the last time I had more than 30 putts.
 Today I just wanted to go out and play some good golf. I obviously putted a lot better today, made plenty of birdies, and it was a nice recovery.

 Q. You were 4-under through seven holes, came to the 18th and made a 7. How do you put that behind you when you're on a run that's trying to make the cut?
 LUKE DONALD: Well, I was swinging well. I didn't feel like I hit a bad third shot into 18 and in hindsight maybe I should have gone for it in two. I had 240 to the front edge and with a bit of wind behind me, I probably could have got there.
 I was a little unlucky with a wedge spinning back and as I say, I wasn't hitting bad shots. Just keep hitting good shots and make some birdies. I saw the lines well on the greens today which was completely different to yesterday.

 Q. How exciting is that closing hole going to be in The Ryder Cup?
 LUKE DONALD: It is, and you know, it's helpful if it's a little bit downwind because you can have a crack at it in two. It's a daunting shot, even though it's from above, a slight miss-hit and you're in water. There's a lot of penalty for being short. It's going to be fun, you know, very risk/reward but you can make birdie laying up, too.

 Q. One of our commentators made an observation that he feels you might win more often playing in Europe; how would you respond to that?
 LUKE DONALD: Perhaps. I've fared well over here. Probably in regards to how many tournaments I've played here, I've done okay.
 You know, I've made my home in the U.S. and Chicago. My wife and baby daughter are over there. I still want to play against the best players in the world, and most weeks, the fields are a little bit deeper in the U.S.

 Q. You started off today at 111th and you moved up to 18th place. That's exactly what the doctor ordered, isn't it, really.
 LUKE DONALD: It is. Even after yesterday, I woke up yesterday morning with a slight sore throat and didn't feel my best, and maybe just wasn't quite switched on mentally. I didn't play that badly; I just putted poorly.
 You know, the score was about as bad as it could have been yesterday, and I still wasn't worried. I was hitting some good shots, and just wanted to come out here and kind of make a few more putts, because I really didn't putt very well yesterday. Waking up this morning, I felt a lot better health-wise and was able to take advantage of some good conditions.

 Q. There was a panel meeting last night, you've been voted The European Tour Golfer of the Month for May and you'll get a trophy for that. Just a comment on that?
 LUKE DONALD: Obviously a great month for me. I've been playing nicely this year, but playing nicely and Top-10s is nice, but it's not what I wanted, and I wanted to break through and win. And to put Wentworth behind me after having a really good chance to win and win in Madrid, it gave me a good boost of confidence. You know, obviously happy about being Golfer of the Month. 

 Q. Must be a little while since you won one of them, I would think?
 LUKE DONALD: It is. I don't think I've ever won -- maybe in 2004, when I won a couple of events back-to-back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT