BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Frustrating to what's been a great week for you; how costly ultimately was the tee shot on the 17th today? 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, very costly. I played pretty solid all day and was trying to hit a little baby draw there and just blocked it unfortunately. It was a poor tee shot and I got what I deserved unfortunately. 
 I gave it my best shot on my wedge shot on the last but wasn't to be. Happy for Simon.

 Q. You needed that eagle, and obviously that was going to be a talking point all week, trying to go for it in two, wasn't in your vocabulary to go for it; but for what might have been?
 LUKE DONALD: It might have. But I hit two poor drives on 17 and 18. On 18 I tried to hit driver and hit a poor shot there, too. Didn't have a chance to go it and had to pull off the impossible almost. I gave it my best shot and there's always next week.

 Q. You've come very close in this one before, but a lot of Ryder Cup points, and that's one of your objectives and a hefty cheque in the bank, as well?
 LUKE DONALD: A lot of positives. It will be disappointing for a few days but I've got a baby daughter to see and they are coming over during the week and there's more to life than just golf. I'll be disappointed for a few days, but I'll get my cap on again in a few days and I'll be in Madrid trying to win there.
 Obviously my mind is on 17 a little bit at the moment and disappointed with the tee shot there. I just didn't execute when I needed to, and that was disappointing. But there were a lot of positives out of this week and I hit a lot of good shots, and hopefully I can build on some of those good ones and forget that bad one. 

 Q. On 17, you were fully aware of the situation?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I knew I was tied and thought this was a great opportunity, with two par 5s, I thought I had a good opportunity to make a birdie on one of them. But yeah, just horrible tee shot on 17 cost me. 

 Q. You almost redeemed that at the last, though didn't you?
 LUKE DONALD: You try. You never give up in this game and you never know what's going to happen. Again, I didn't hit a good drive on 18. I had to lay up, and yeah, that shot was tracking for sure but I don't know how close it came or whether it bounced forward, I'm not sure. 
 It didn't go in, and you know, hats off to Simon. He played a great round today, and I think he's been struggling the last couple of seasons. I think he had an exemption to play in this week, so how great for him. Unfortunately it didn't work out for me but I'll have other weeks. I'm playing Madrid and Wales, so I'll be here for a while. 
Аы



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT