TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Disappointing finish at 18, but a day when you played yourself atop the leaderboard, at least for a hole, got it to 8-under. Your thoughts on your play?  
 LUKE DONALD: I played pretty solid today. Got off to a bit of a slow start, but then really started nicely. Holed a nice putt on 5 and that kind of got the wheels going.   
 Yeah, I played nicely today really. Drove it pretty well. Hit a couple irons that were tap-ins, and it was a solid day. Obviously a little bit of a disappointing finish, but I feel good about tomorrow.   
  
  Q. I was going to talk about, did you glance at the leaderboard at all?   
 LUKE DONALD: I mean, I saw it on 16. Hard to miss the leaderboards, they are actually everywhere. I wasn't really looking but I saw a bit that I was near the top.   
  
  Q. I don't know if you saw on the scoreboard or were told, early start on both nines because of the weather. Should be a free-for-all tomorrow.   
 LUKE DONALD: Good, I get to go home and see my young daughter earlier. So that will be good.  
  
  Q. How is everything a month in? How is everything going?   
 LUKE DONALD: She's doing great. Being a baby like most babies are. She's healthy, putting on weight and looking forward to seeing her.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your round a little bit, aside from 18, a pretty good round?  
 LUKE DONALD: I made six solid birdies out there, and, you know, you're going to make a couple of mistakes around this course. It's not easy. But today with the conditions, I think greens are holding relatively well. You could make a few birdies today, and I hit a lot of good iron shots. I think that's the thing that's been missing a little bit, some of my not-so-good rounds; I just haven't quite hit my irons that well.   
 But hit a few really close today, and feel good about my game and where I am.   
  
  Q. Your iron game and ball-striking has always been your really strong part, so if that's rounding into shape, then you're pleased with your game, aren't you?   
 LUKE DONALD: To be honest, I have had to work hard on my driving and my iron play the last couple of years. It has not been as good as I'd like it to be. I've been good around the greens, but I think into year, I've started to see some definite improvements off the tee. Hitting it a little bit longer, a little bit straighter, and I'm hitting my irons pretty well.   
 So all good things pointing towards what I'm working on is the right stuff.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT