WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 17, 2010
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LUKE DONALD: Well, I gave him one on 3, made a lot of birdies. I think we made 14 birdies between us. I think when you kind of got to have that mindset with the perfect conditions like we have, you have to make some birdies to beat an opponent. We got off to a good start. Graeme was keeping up and not giving anything away, matching my birdies at 9, 10, 11. We birdied every one of those holes.

 Q. Lots of bogeys out there. The flags were tucked away?
 LUKE DONALD: There was a couple you had to stay away from. I think, as Geoff said earlier, you have got to look at the pin sheet on the tees. You have got to see where it is and see where the best place is to get the best angle. The you have to come in from the right side. I was able to get some really good shots and be close.

 Q. Really good form. Has something clicked in your game?
 LUKE DONALD: I've been working hard on the swing, working a little bit more on my leg action. That has seemed to help me. I have been able to turn the ball over a little bit easier. I have struggled over the last couple of years. It is a nice feeling.

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 LUKE DONALD: I'm good friends with Robert. Obviously played a little bit with him at the club in Jupiter. He will be a tough match. He has been playing well this year. Just go out there and try to make some mother birdies. 

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 LUKE DONALD: Obviously LA was a good confidence boost. Last week again, tougher, little bit colder conditions. I didn't swing it quite as well. Definitely, as I said, I'm able to move the ball a little bit both ways, which makes the golf course a little bit more accessible, a bit wider in certain places. 
 I'm very happy where I'm hitting it right now today, especially I was able to really control a lot of shots and make eight birdies.

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 LUKE DONALD: On paper. Obviously, when you take off all the numbers and you work out the yardage, it is not too bad. A couple of holes that were long today. I hit a 3-iron into 7. 
 I mean, it wasn't playing super long. There weren't too much long irons. 

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 LUKE DONALD: Last week was -- I didn't putt that great. Those greens -- they are testing greens. I think if I have ever missed that tournament, that is why. Greens sometimes affect your confidence a little bit. 
 These greens are perfect. I see the line a little bit better. Just been working pretty hard the last couple of days, a little bit on my posture, just getting that club swinging. 

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 LUKE DONALD: So is Ben Crane. I wondered if he was still stuck on the first hole. 

 Q. How important do you feel in a week like this? This is one of those tightrope weeks, isn't it? 
 LUKE DONALD: It is a great opportunity. Obviously Ryder Cup points and jumping up on European order of merit, all that kind of stuff. These world events are huge weeks for me, especially for Ryder Cup. Not only are they great World Ranking points, but if you do well, you can jump up the other board, too. That would really help. 
 Again, you can't tell. You never know who you are going to play and what kind of guys you are going to meet on the particular day, whether he is 10-under or 1-over. You just don't know. If I keep playing the way I'm playing, I'll have no complaints, win or lose.

 Q. Is it nice to get your teeth stuck into match play again?
 LUKE DONALD: It is. It's like you are playing in the final group of Sunday. You have got one person to beat. You feel the nerves a little bit more. It's a little bit of an adrenaline rush, which is good. I love match play. We don't play it very often. Our minds are so in tune to be playing stroke play, it is nice to be more aggressive when you can and not worry about the consequences and take birdies. Make I should try that in stroke play.

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 LUKE DONALD: I've never played him in match play before. I know Robert reasonably well. We practice and play a little bit. He's obviously been playing well this year, too. We'll see what happens.

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 LUKE DONALD: I mean, 16, that was hard to get close to that pin. Graeme made a great 2 there. 
 I made some good putts today. I think 9 and 10 were big keys for me. I got 2-up after 8. He hit it close on 9 and 10. I holed it in front of him. I just kept momentum on my side, even though he was staying up there. It was nice to keep my nose ahead.

 Q. How imminent is the baby?
 LUKE DONALD: Bay Hill week.

 Q. So not quite in the realms for hotlines yet?
 LUKE DONALD: No, not yet. The plan is to play Doral and sneak in Tampa, if I can, and see how my wife is feeling. If not, then -- well, that's the plan.

 Q. Taking any paternity leave after this? 
 LUKE DONALD: I'll take Bay Hill and Houston off.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT