THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 5, 2009
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Do you have a lot of emotion, for you, the fact that you are still very much alive?   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, you've got to kind of forget this round. Hopefully got my bad round out of the way. I actually felt like I played better my first nine, than I did my second nine. I drove it poorly on my back nine. I got away with a few shots. Generally, just have to work on it a little bit, feel a little bit more confident off the tee. Didn't hit enough fairways today. The good thing is I'm only 2 back.  
  
  Q. Do you ever feel like you're playing with house money at all? Going into the next round, is there a little leeway there for error?   
 LUKE DONALD: You know, I was trying to not focus on yesterday. Yesterday was a totally different day. Just get out there and give myself some chances for birdie. Play the course smart. It's getting firmer and faster out there. It's not getting any easier. It's getting harder. You have to be smart around this place.   
 I think I can make enough quality good shots.   
  
  Q. Was the wind just maybe affecting you a little bit?  
 LUKE DONALD: It was certainly swirling a little bit. You walk off on 18 and it's down. And you get out on the next tee, and it's a different direction. It's certainly swirling a little bit, but if you play good golf, you can make it around.   
  
  Q. How different did you feel with the putter today?   
 LUKE DONALD: You know, the putts didn't go in as much as today obviously. I don't know how many putts I had. Ultimately, I didn't give myself enough chances, you know, makable chances. You've got to be in the right side of the hole around this golf course. If you're not, three putts and all that.   
  
  Q. That's what you talked about so much yesterday. You were in the right spot to make putts. And today you weren't in the right spot as much,  
 LUKE DONALD: No, not as much. Didn't hit enough fairways, didn't hit enough greens.   
  
  Q. Is it better to have a longer putt if you're putting uphill than have a shorter putt or a closer putt on the side hill or down?   
 LUKE DONALD: Probably. It depends on the distances. But you can certainly be a bit more aggressive if you're putting uphill.   
  
  Q. As you made the turn, what did you tell yourself?   
 LUKE DONALD: Keep plugging away. I was strong on my first nine. I feel like there were a couple of good birdie opportunities out there, but I didn't really take them. Made a good putt on one, but other than that, blown a few chances. It's just disappointing.   
  
  Q. On your second nine did that line up for probably what's ahead this weekend?  
 LUKE DONALD: Sure. I mean, definitely didn't go any further back. I was shooting even par on my last nine holes. But, again, I felt like there were birdie opportunities out there that I didn't take. Go to the range, work on it, and hopefully I can hit the ball a bit better tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Was your score a reflection of not hitting the ball in the right spots, or did you not putt well?   
 LUKE DONALD: Not hitting the ball in the right spots.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT