SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2016
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well done out there, back-to-back 65s.  I know you missed a bunch of putts, but you played awfully solid today.
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I missed a couple on the front side.  I felt like I played really nicely on the back, gave myself a lot of chances, and it was nice to finish with a couple.  I made a good putt on 17.
Yeah, it was a really solid Back 9, and nice to finish with a couple there at the end.
Q. What's been the key to your good start?
LUKE DONALD: I think general -- well, yesterday the short game was really good.  I got up-and-down seven out of eight times on those greens, made a couple of long putts, and I think that was really good for my momentum.
Today I actually hit the ball probably a little bit more solid, caught a few more fairways, felt like I hit more greens anyway, and just, you know, picked up some birdies when I had chances.
So it's nice to back up a solid round yesterday with another one today.
Q. Looks like the wind died down this afternoon, made it pretty easy out there.
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it was swirling on the front nine.  It was kind of moving all over the place.  We were kind of having to guess a little bit what it was, but it wasn't too strong.  And then the last five, six holes it really laid down completely, and it was nice to be out there in this weather with these conditions.  It was right for scoring for sure.
Q. Well played.  Thanks for your time.  Good luck this weekend.
LUKE DONALD: Thank you.
Q. Decent playing, huh?
LUKE DONALD: Yeah.  You know, the conditions are really good, obviously.  Fairways are running.  The course isn't playing very long.  The greens are holding.  Not too much wind.  We've been lucky with the conditions.  When I've had chances I've taken them.
I missed a six-footer on 15.  I haven't really missed too many putts.  And yeah, it's been a good couple of days' work.
Q. Is there any part of you that's surprised that you've put this together?
LUKE DONALD: I think I have been trending in the right direction.  Look at British Masters I finished fifth.  I made a lot of birdies and a couple of eagles in Dubai, finished 13th there.  So it's not a total surprise.
I think whenever you have a break, you don't quite know how you're going to come out, but I think I feel excited about the work I've been doing and I feel like I'm not having to think about my swing quite as much as I did last year and I can just kind of play golf.
As long as I'm approaching mentally in the right place, I think good stuff will happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT