BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2008
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What happened out there? It seemed to go very well. 
 LUKE DONALD: Well, I think we were blessed with the weather in the wind. I woke up this morning thinking it was going to be a wet and horrible day, but turned out to be beautiful out there. The greens are obviously a lot softer with the overnight rain and just made the course play a lot easier.
 Yeah, I played very nicely today and obviously nice to finish with three birdies.

 Q. When we spoke earlier on in the week you indicated you had been making a few changes and you seemed to be comfortable out there today. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, two out of the four rounds I felt very much in control, not quite there but every week I feel like I'm getting better and progressing and that's the main goal is to get better every day and have rounds like these and build on the confidence and hopefully take me onto a good finish this week will give me a boost for the upcoming majors.
 It's always nice to finish a tournament off. Been a while since I played that consistent for a whole day. I played very nicely the second round, as well, but finished it off a little bit better today than I did on Friday.

 Q. When we spoke on Friday, you said that you felt that things were starting to click into place, and you must feel that that's even more the case now. 
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, you know, every time I can go out there and have round like this where I feel in control of the ball where I step up to it knowing pretty much where it's going to go, that's what I call Luke Donald golf I suppose; when I can place the ball where I want it, give myself good chances and minimise mistakes, and I did that very well today.

 Q. Is it a source of frustration that you can put a great back nine, closing three holes, all 18 holes in a sense together on the final day like that it, but when you do it and you're not actually really in the thick of the tournament?
 LUKE DONALD: It is frustrating, but at the same time, when I looked at the board on 16, I think the lead at that time was nine, and I was at six and I said to myself, I had a long putt there and said, you know, let's try and birdie the last three and to dig down deep and hole about a 35 footer on 16 and birdie the last two, that shows a little bit of guts. But obviously I wasn't in the thick of the pressure the whole day obviously and that makes it a little bit easier. 
 You know, these rounds will help and hopefully in my up-and-coming tournaments, I can get in a little bit better position after rounds three. 

 Q. It's a great time to be hitting form, isn't it, this is the real exciting time of the season. 
 LUKE DONALD: Obviously this will boost my confidence going into next week at the Memorial and hopefully the U.S. Open, as well. So a good run of tournaments coming up and then I'll be back in Europe after the U.S. Open before The Open. 

 Q. And I know you guys don't want to get ahead of yourself but I would have thought Torrey Pines has been in your head for quite some time because it's somewhere you've enjoyed success on the PGA Tour, albeit at a different time of the year?
 LUKE DONALD: I've had a couple runner-up finishes and that always helps to know, going back to a course where you've had some success in the past. Hopefully that can continue, and if I can keep playing like this, and being able to control it off the tee especially, that's very important at U.S. Opens, then I'll hopefully have a chance come Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT