BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2008
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 3-under par for the tournament and the round?  
 LUKE DONALD: Pretty pleased. I was disappointed with the finish, to finish with three fives is never what you want, but actually I hit a lot of very good shots today. Got off to a great start and just made a bogey on 13. Just missed it on the wrong side of the hole there and that kind of took the momentum away.  
 Overall I played nice and solid today and if I can do that on the weekend, then I'll be very happy.  
  
  Q. Over the first 12 holes, you were on fire; did you think you would go for a 65 or 66?  
 LUKE DONALD: Definitely, even 4-under through seven and missed a couple chances on 8 and 10. Really just had full control of many I game and really the bogeys I made, were just very small errors, and sometimes that can get you around this golf course.   
 I would have loved to have make those last two putts on 17 and 18 but it wasn't to be.  
  
  Q. What were the greens like today? There was a lot of frustration out there yesterday?  
 LUKE DONALD: Yesterday they were very firm and today they were a bit softer. The tough part today was some were even spinning and some were bouncing on a few yards so, it was very tough to know how the ball was going to react which made it difficult to pick the right club.  
 But overall I think when these greens have a little bit of moisture on them they putt a little bit better and they are staying on the ground a little bit longer.  
  
  Q. You started out as a three ball and soon became a two ball with the withdrawal of Lee Westwood. Can you talk to us about what happened?  
 LUKE DONALD: I think he had a dodgey Chinese last night. He was up all night feeling very sick. He obviously was struggling with his game and not feeling too well. So he left us on the sixth green.   
  
  Q. Has it been a while since you felt in such control of your game?   
 LUKE DONALD: There have been times but that was one of the better rounds today. Just working on the range a little bit yesterday, just found something that was kind of a key that seemed to work. So I went with that today and I played nicely.   
  
  Q. And it was?   
 LUKE DONALD: Just same things, but just thinking of it in a different way in regards to my shoulders rather than my hips, trying to keep getting a little bit more angle with my shoulders at impact rather than keeping my hips more level.  
  
  Q. You mentioned yesterday swing changes you've been making --  
 LUKE DONALD: If you look at my swing on video compared to the end of last year, it's significantly better. It in better positions. It's just a case of keep working on it, keep trusting it and start playing rounds like that more often, I'll gain a lot more confidence and the game will seem easier again.  
  
  Q. Has it been a bit of a struggle this career?  
 LUKE DONALD: I would say it's been more of a struggle than I would liked to have, but just going through those changes, it's going to happen. I've been a little bit more inconsistent. I've been throwing in a few drives that have been hurting me this year that have cost me a few doubles here and there and often taken away some momentum.   
 Today was better. I drove it pretty consistently well; if I was off, it was just by a little bit.   
  
  Q. Winning score is going to be fairly low; is it going to come back? Nobody seems really capable of running away with it.   
 LUKE DONALD: You never know. Conditions were easier today I think than yesterday just because the greens were a bit softer, and these greens putt better when they have a bit of moisture. They seem to stay on the ground a little bit. But I think the forecast for the weekend isn't that great, maybe some wind and rain on Sunday, so you've just got to keep plugging along.  
  
  Q. A few of them were suggesting yesterday that 7-under might still be the winning score.   
 LUKE DONALD: It was 8 (under) last year and I think we are in for some similar conditions.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
 
 
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT