DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 19, 2015
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It wasn't a flawless first round but it was an encouraging one.  You've been here before when all the pressure has been on you to win everything.  Was it any different today out there?  
LUKE DONALD: Well, I was actually telling my brother, I think you actually feel more pressure when you're not playing that great, and obviously the last couple seasons haven't been great because there's a little bit of unknown.  You feel like you're working hard and you can start to see some positive results, but it's always a little bit of a tougher start when you've been playing like that.   
I got off to a great start obviously.  Six birdies in my first seven with a bogey thrown in there, it was going very well.  Didn't quite finish the way I wanted but a lot of positives from today, a lot of good shots and a lot of birdies and overall pretty pleased.   
 Q.  You mentioned your brother, and we did do a quick double-take there when we saw Christian on the bag.  What's the story there?  
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, Chris's wife lives over here, and I'm still working on filling the job.  It was nice to spend a week with my brother.  He's happily employed by Brendan Steele but nice of him to come help me out.  It felt like old times.   
 Q.  It does kind of sound as if you are finding your way back, that's the way you kind of talk.  Where does this week take you on this road back?  
LUKE DONALD: This is another opportunity to try to putt some solid rounds together and hopefully get those feelings of being in contention again.  A couple solid weeks this year, but not enough.   
The goal I think is to get back in the Top-50, get back in the top 25, start winning tournaments, start getting some Top-10s again and just get back into that feeling.  Obviously this is my last event of the year, but if I can finish on a high, that would be a nice momentum for next season.   
 Q.  For all that, the Top-50 The European Tour is reaching out to players like you with what they have been doing.  How much do you appreciate that?  
LUKE DONALD: I appreciate that a lot.  I think I haven't had that problem at the start of the year where I could plan my schedule; I knew I was in most of the majors and the World events up until this year.   
Obviously with that rule changed, thanks to Keith Pelley, I think that makes organising my schedule so much easier.  I can certainly play five European Tour events and retain my membership without too much stress and that's always the goal of mine.  I've always wanted to be a member.  Obviously with the old rules, you fall out of the Top-50, it becomes very hard.  This makes it a lot easier on me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT