MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. An incredibly frustrating day I would imagine after having been 3-under after six and finish the way you did.
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I made a lot of birdies, but I made too many mistake today, obviously, and that was disappointing, especially to make five birdies around here as you do you're doing a lot of good things. 
 But it's a shame to give them back with a few silly mistakes. A couple 3-putts and obviously a bad double bogey at 16. 
 But no, I try and forget the bad shots and concentrate on the good ones out here today. Because there were a lot of good shots I hit and I can build on that with a lot of positives from that. And still 1-over is never a terrible score around here. You're still not out of it by any means. And hopefully build on some of those good shots and minimize the bad ones for tomorrow. 

 Q. This is a course, isn't it, where you know that somebody's going to be lurking around the corner and you have to just close it off?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it's one of those places where you just have to concentrate on every single shot. And again it was a little disappointing to make a couple 3-putts like I did. I didn't hole out quite well enough today and then that one just pulled it slightly on 16. Other than that, I made a lot of good swings today.

 Q. Do you feel you're getting to know the course better and the way you approach it, Zach Johnson showed you don't have to drive the ball miles and miles to win it last year?
 LUKE DONALD: No, Zach played well today and you can see why he plays well around here. He's very good around the greens. He knows his strengths and manages his game very well. 
 And it's one of those courses that it's become so long now that I don't think that anyone can really overpower it so much. You might be hitting 7-irons instead of 4-irons, but you're not hitting wedges into greens like you were a few years ago. So you still have to really manage your game around here and have a very good short game.

 Q. So strategy is first and foremost?
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT