NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 16, 2008
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What does that do to your mentality, Phil and Jeff Quinney so far in front?   
 LUKE DONALD:  Tomorrow I'm just going to go out and play my own game, I don't think it changes too much.  You know, I'm in good position to have a strong finish and you never know on this course.  If you can shoot 4- or 5-under, you never know what the guys are going to do ahead, so you keep plugging away.   
  
  Q.  Seems like the wind had died down a little bit today but scores are still relatively high; what is it about this golf course?   
 LUKE DONALD:  I think it's the greens most of all.  Some of them are different firmnesses.  It's very hard to predict whether they are going to release or stop.  It's very hard to hit a ball very close and give yourself a lot of chances, and these greens are hard to hole putts on.   
 So you know, it's a good, classic golf course.  Just shows you don't really need a long, modern-day golf course to make it tough.   
  
  Q.  Let's say the round ended right now and you ended tomorrow eight shots back; can this course yield a 62 the way it's playing right now?   
 LUKE DONALD:  It's possible.  If you really play well and get the ball rolling in the hole, it's definitely possible.  But you know, it's going to be some tough pins tomorrow, but you know, you've got to go out with that mentality that it is possible and try and do it.   
  
  Q.  Obviously you're playing really well entering the first World Golf Championships next week, does that match play linger in the back of your head, especially a long week, starts Wednesday; what are your plans Monday and Tuesday?  Do you take a day of rest?   
 LUKE DONALD:  No, I'll probably go out there Monday.  I'm not sure if I'll play.  I might play nine.  I'll definitely practice.  It does start Wednesday, so this is only my first week back on the PGA TOUR, so I feel like I'm rested enough.   
  
  Q.  And like with the Northwestern Wildcats, you always look at brackets and seedings; do you do that at all with golf?   
 LUKE DONALD:  I don't think Northwestern ever made the NCAAs, actually; they are one of the few teams.   
 You know, I think all of the matches, somewhat irrelevant.  Anyone can beat anyone on any given day.  It's over 18 holes.  Just go turn up and whoever it is, play hard and hope that's good enough.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT