THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2007
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LUKE DONALD:  I think playing the first 10 or 11 holes, I thought there was some really good birdies to be had there.  I gave a few away.  I birdied 6, and a couple of other putts I could have made.  Coming down the stretch, 12 gets pretty tough and it's a matter of holding on a little bit and hopefully snatching a couple of birdies. 
 I think overall 1-under par is never a bad score in an Open.  I'm going into tomorrow with some confidence. 

 Q.  The last couple of years the problem with you in majors is that you haven't started well, so at least no real damage has been done? 
 LUKE DONALD:  Well, no damage.  I definitely didn't shoot myself in the foot today.  I'm very much in the mix still.  Obviously it's the early stages.  It's a good start. 

 Q.  Of course you had your honeymoon, came back and played in the Scottish Open, finished really well there.  Do you feel that you're, in a way, match sharp after that little break or does it take a few weeks to play regularly to get those juices going? 
 LUKE DONALD:  I think that 64 at Loch Lomond proved that I'm back in -- you can't be rusty and shoot 64.  I'm feeling good about my game.  I'm not really worried about it. 
 My stroke on the greens feels really nice.  With the greens being as good as they are this week, if you just give yourself some chances, you can definitely make some putts. 

 Q.  Is it a matter in the back of your mind that sort of thought of seize the day, that this is the moment in a major championship to really go for it, or can you never think like that around a course like Carnoustie? 
 LUKE DONALD:  No, you just have to kind of plot your way around major courses, especially an Open Championship.  It's hard to be too aggressive out here, you just have to stick to your game plan and add up the scores and hopefully they're good enough on Sunday. 

 Q.  All these people are wondering why this great crop of young English and British players haven't quite made that major championship breakthrough.  You can assure them it's not for the want of trying? 
 LUKE DONALD:  Absolutely not.  And not for the lack of talent, either.  There are plenty of guys from Europe and Great Britain that have as good a chance as anyone this week, especially being at Carnoustie, a course where we played the dunhill links and maybe are a little bit more familiar with this course than some of the other Open venues. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT