U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2007
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Not a putt you wanted to see in?   
 LUKE DONALD:  It could possibly knock me out, yeah.  I didn't know that, 11-over -- it looks like it's going to be 10-over.  It's an easy hole if you hit driver and a sand iron, that's for sure.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel you played well today?   
 LUKE DONALD:  To be honest, you look at my stats, they are not bad apart from putting.  I probably had 36, 37, 38 putts today.  I think I hit 12 greens in regulation, which around here is not a bad effort.   
 But wasn't able to salvage.  You know, just had a few bad holes.  I think I had 12 or 13 pars, but a couple doubles and double-bogeys and that was that and no birdies.   
  
  Q.  This course can bite you, can't it?   
 LUKE DONALD:  It's tough, no doubt.  There's no give-up whatsoever out there.  It's definitely a beast.   
 But yeah, unfortunately didn't quite hit good enough shots into the greens and struggled -- struggled when I got there.  I couldn't hole anything.   
  
  Q.  Coming into the day after you played a couple of holes, did it seem that much different than yesterday, the golf course?   
 LUKE DONALD:  It was a lot firmer.  The fairways were running out.  The greens were running out a little bit more.  Plus it's a bit more of a fresher wind today.  It just made it tricky.  I think the greens on the back nine started to get that kind of glazed look.  You see a few footprints.  It's just tough to hole putts.  You need to be very wary of the speed and it's hard to be too positive, otherwise you'd be knocking it a few feet by.   
  
  Q.  What's it like playing with Cabrera?  Obviously he was finding a way to get it around here.   
 LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, he played very solid.  You know, he's a long hitter but he's very straight, too.  Just played very solid.  I mean, didn't do too much wrong.  When he missed the green, he was able to get up-and-down.  Just holed a couple nice putts on 13 and 16 for birdies.  You know, you just need to hole a few putts.  Otherwise, he just kept it together.  He played very well.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT