EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2007
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART MOORE:  We welcome Luke Donald to the interview room here at the EDS Byron Nelson Championship.  Luke currently sitting in 16th in the FedExCup point standings, a close call earlier this year, a T2 at the Sony Open, and this event the past four years you've had Top 20 finishes each year.  What is it about this golf course that tends to suit your eye, and why do you seem to play well here? 
 LUKE DONALD:  It's hard to really pinpoint one kind of thing.  I just feel very comfortable around this golf course.  I feel like a lot of golf shots suit my eye, you know, and I've always been very consistent here.  I've been able to -- I think I shot in the 60s maybe all eight rounds the last two tournaments, two times around here.  It's a tournament that seems to suit me well. 
 STEWART MOORE:  How would you grade your play so far this year compared to years past up to this point? 
 LUKE DONALD:  It's been a little bit more inconsistent this year.  I had a run of some bad events on the West Coast, but my game actually feels very solid right now, feels very close to where I want it to be.  And again, after having some success in this championship before, I'm very excited to be here. 

 Q.  Obviously this is the first Nelson without Mr. Nelson here.  How different will this tournament be without his presence? 
 LUKE DONALD:  I'm sure it will be different.  I think even the last couple days, I think the weather might have a little bit to do with it, but it just seems to be a slight somber feel about it, just because he's not here.  I walked past the 18th green earlier this week and saw there was no position where he's going to sit, and it just seems a little bit different.  I'm sure come the weekend there will be a lot of people out here and the atmosphere will be great. 
 I'm sure it will feel like it's missing something without Byron here. 

 Q.  I know schedules play a lot into it, but a lot of the top guys maybe -- are you surprised maybe a few more guys didn't come just out of respect to Nelson this week? 
 LUKE DONALD:  Well, hard to speak on their behalf.  I've always enjoyed playing here.  You know, the reason -- I guess the ultimate reason for players to play is they've got to feel comfortable around the golf course, and they've got to feel like they're going to be successful.  No disrespect to Mr. Nelson, I'm sure they respect him as a person and someone who's done a lot for the game of golf.  But if they feel like they're not going to be competitive or successful around a place, then they won't come. 

 Q.  How much of a factor was Mr. Nelson in paying honor to him this week and you coming here?  Was that part of it or mostly the golf course?  What brought you back this year? 
 LUKE DONALD:  Just I've had a lot of success here.  I think I was sick last year.  I've had my chances.  I think a couple years ago I was in the last group on Sunday.  The tournament seems to suit my eye.  I play well around here, and I feel like I've got a good chance to win, so that's my main reason for being here. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Luke Donald, thanks for your time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT