BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 6, 2015
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SARAH GWYNN: Thank you very much for joining us this afternoon.  Talk about how it feels to be back on British soils.
LUKE DONALD: Must too young to have played one.  It's always great to be back here.  Obviously this was a vision of The European Tour and some of the British players to try to get more events back in the U.K.
The European Tour approached a few of us a few years back saying would we be interested in being ambassadors, and it seemed like a great idea.  We're always hungry for more events in the U.K.  Certainly as a kid growing up, have many have I ever I had memories of running around Woburn and running around Wentworth and Sunningdale and watching some of my idols and slowly some of those eventually went away.
I think it's important to try to get some events back in the U.K., and obviously we are here today and thanks to the vision of The European Tour and the insistence of some of the top players.  But to be here, always fun to be back in the U.K.
SARAH GWYNN: And you have a great record in the U.K. with two wins at Wentworth and one in the Scottish.  What is it about playing here that you enjoy so much?
LUKE DONALD: I enjoy the atmosphere.  I enjoy the crowd support.  I think it's fun to play in front of 10,000 people or more.  There's a certain level of focus that improves when you have that many people watching you and having that much support behind you.  So I think just put it down to good support and playing right at the right time.
Q. And how is your game feeling right now?
LUKE DONALD: A lot of consistency in my game the last few months.  I feel like I have a little bit of ways to go, but I'm feeling confident that I can get back to at least close to the level I was a few years ago.  I felt like it's been very close the last few months.  It just hasn't quite clicked.  I haven't had that one breakout win to kind of get the confidence going enough.   But certainly feel optimistic about my chances going forward.
Q. How does it work for yourself and Lee and Justin going forward in terms of venue and things like that?  Is it set here or do you have a say where it goes next?
LUKE DONALD: Well, discussing that between myself and The European Tour and we're just trying to find the appropriate place.  You'd like to make it somewhat -- Ian's based here, makes sense to have him here.  Try to find a place that makes sense for Lee to host; and whether it's a place that I grew up or a place that has some significance to me.
But logistically you have to think about it and what would work for a big tournament like this.  But I think the plan is to sit down and talk with some of the guys even this week to try to figure out some plans going forward.  I believe I'm the last one to host, I'm not sure, but that's what I gather.  So there's a little bit of time to work on that.
Q. Do you have a favourite in mind?  I know you have a few years to think about it.  Anywhere that leaps out that you would like to have to host it?
LUKE DONALD: Local to me but obviously The Grove perhaps.  It's hosted a WGC in the past.  I have fond memories of Sunningdale was a kid walking around there.  I'm not sure if that course is quite long enough for a tournament nowadays.  But those are some of the golf courses that have been thrown out.  Obviously a lot of steps that need to be made, whether the membership would even want the tournament there.  Certainly I haven't even thought about maybe taking it to a links course.  Maybe in the southeast of England, maybe St. George's or a place like that could be fun.  Again, just throwing names off the top of my head.  I haven't really talked in detail with The European Tour, but I think there are some options out there.
Q. Has it been hard to go back to Pat and work on your golf swing?  Is it reinventing the wheel, or is it just trying to go back to where you were before?
LUKE DONALD: No -- it was me trying to do something completely different to what I had ever done.
I think going back to Pat was a lot easier transition.  It will still take some time, and in the process, my confidence got knocked a little bit with not having the results.  Swing-wise, it hasn't been too difficult.
Q. Is it routines --
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, Pat's always been a great mentor to me.  He's been very good at organising practise and getting the most out of what I do, being efficient with my practise, practicing the right way.  He's always been very good at that, and I've certainly enjoyed that part of it, being back with him full-time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT