THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2019
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations, what a great round for you, 7-under, 65.  You bogeyed 1 and then you turned on the birdie machine today.  Eight birdies, that must have been quite a day for you.  Tell us about it?
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it was nice to finally put a good score on the board.  I've been working hard the last couple of months.  I had a decent finish at Tampa a couple of months ago, but still building up the reps coming back from a back injury, and starting to see some progress, like rounds today.  So it's nice and gratifying.
Q. Now 6-under, where do you think that might end up here for somebody?
LUKE DONALD: Well, you know, it's still soft out there.  The wind is picking up a little bit today.  I think it's going to be cooler and windier tomorrow.  It's put me potentially within striking distance, let's put it that way.
Q. Course setup today for the guys going out there this afternoon as the winds pick up, hole locations today, what did you think?
LUKE DONALD: I felt some of them were gettable, for sure.  Soft conditions allows you that.  But I felt like today, if you are going to shoot a low score, the pin positions were a little bit more accessible than some the last couple of days.
Q. Let's get some comments on your day.
LUKE DONALD: Yeah, obviously started with a three-putt on 1 for bogey.  But the greens were a little bit quicker than they have been the last two days, especially early on in the morning they're pure.  But then took advantage of some nice conditions.  The wind started to pick up a little bit more on the back nine, but the front nine was good.
Yeah, just hit a lot of good, solid shots today.  It was nice to hole a few putts and shoot a good number, get me kind of a little bit back in the mix.
Q. Is this the kind of day you anticipated?  You barely make the cut and then you come out here on fire today?
LUKE DONALD: Well, golf is tough at times, and certainly the last couple of years hasn't been that easy for me and coming off an injury last year.  Really my first real tournament back was Tampa where I felt a hundred percent kind of healthy.  So I've been able to put in a little bit more time since then and finally seeing some results.  In this game you have to be patient.  You never know when the good stuff is coming.
Q. You and Strick had good rounds today.  Do you feel it, 41?
LUKE DONALD: Someone was asking me, Andrew Putnam, I play with, how many seasons have you been in, and this is my 18th season.  It doesn't feel like 18.  I like this golf course.  This is a course that produces different winners, not just the bombers, I think the people that are a bit more strategy-wise because it takes driver out of the hands on certain holes.  So it's a little bit of an equalizer in that regard.  So that's why I think you usually see a pretty varied leaderboard here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT