PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2006
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KELLY ELBIN:  Luke Donald, ladies and gentlemen, joining us today at the 88th PGA Championship at the Medinah Country Club.  Luke will be participating in his fourth PGA Championship this week, a product of Northwestern University.  Luke, just some thoughts on having played at Medinah a few times.
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, it's very nice to be playing a major in Chicago where I spend a lot of my time in the summers.  I've played Medinah a number of times.  I played it a couple times last week, and it feels a little bit more relaxing because I don't have to travel to get there.  You know, I'm quite familiar with the course, which is exciting for this week.
Q.  Are you just playing it from your home, or are you in a hotel locally?
LUKE DONALD:  I'm traveling from home.  It's about 40 minutes' drive, so not too bad.
Q.  You say you're quite familiar with the course.  How many times have you played it over the years would you say, and have you ever seen it play anything like this length?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, they redid the course a few years ago and they lengthened it, and since that time I've probably played it maybe six or seven times.  But I've played it a couple times last week to really get familiar with how it's going to play this week.  The rough was still up last week.  You know, I think the course will be playing somewhat similar this week as it did last week.

I got to see it a few times, and I don't get to do that usually.
Q.  Do you change your preparation or your routine a lot to get ready for a major?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, I don't think you can change too much.  Obviously I'm putting in a little bit more time on the; range, trying to; hopefully come Thursday, my game feels great.  It's felt good the last week or so, and hopefully I'm when you step up Thursday everything kicks into place.  But you can't really control that, but you can do everything as much as possible in the way of practicing and preparing as much as you can.  I had a couple weeks off to try and prepare for this week.
Q.  Your thoughts on the changes that they made to the golf course, especially at 17 where the green is back down by the water and how that may come into play.
LUKE DONALD:  Well, I didn't play here in '99 and didn't play much before the changes.  Obviously I knew what it looked like, but 17 right now I think is a great hole.  It's a great par 3.  It's not overly long.  It's going to be probably a 6 iron for most players.  The green is very thin and runs from the front left to the back right.  You know, with the elevation change it's hard to judge the distance.  You get a little bit of swirling wind out there, and it can make that five yard difference and you might come up short in the water.

It's not a big green for a good par 3.
Q.  After your three opening rounds in the majors this year, are you going to take a different approach, either mental or tactically, into this Thursday?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, I obviously haven't played very well in the first rounds of the last three majors.  I think it was more mental than anything.  I feel like I've got to a stage in my game where I'm good enough to compete and win at any given tournament, and right now it's just I've been getting in my own way a little bit on the mental side.  I feel like I've put in a little bit too much expectation early on in the round, when really, Thursday really shouldn't be any different to any other round.

You know, it's about not pressing too hard, not getting too upset at myself, and whenever I hit a bad shot, to try and just keep playing one shot at a time.  It's the same things you hear over and over again, but it's a matter of doing it rather than actually    doing it rather than saying it.
Q.  Have you changed anything to make you feel so happy about your game at the moment?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, I haven't really changed anything.  I've had the guy I work with, Jim Fannin, on the mental side this week and figure out how to put less expectation on myself.  If things don't go right, dismiss it and carry on and don't let one bad shot affect the next couple holes.  That's kind of what has happened the last few majors.
KELLY ELBIN:  Luke, you are fifth on the World Points list for the Ryder Cup.  Talk a little bit about looking forward next month to the Matches at The K Club.
LUKE DONALD:  Well, obviously Sergio and I are very close on that list, but hopefully with a good solid three weeks, then I will secure my place in the Ryder Cup.

Right now I'm looking forward to making that team automatically.  I had a great experience a couple years ago at Oakland Hills, and I'm looking forward to going to The K Club in a few weeks.  Ryder Cup is an amazing experience and something I really don't want to miss.
KELLY ELBIN:  Luke Donald, thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT