DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 28, 2006
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NICOLAI LAUDE:  Welcome, Luke.  Two solid rounds, 6 under today, 5 under yesterday, 11 under total.  You just said to me the conditions were very good today on the course, so it was easy to hit that number, or was it just because
LUKE DONALD:  Well, it's never easy, but the conditions did allow for some good scoring.  The greens were very receptive, almost too receptive at the beginning.  I was spinning the ball back too much.  But there was hardly any wind, the greens were a lot nicer this morning than they were yesterday afternoon, and that meant you could fire at the pins and make a few birdies.
Q.  I spoke to you before the tournament, and at the Open it was a bit of bad luck with the bunkers.  Your swing was still in pretty good shape, and it seems that you're carrying on with that, everything going to plan.
LUKE DONALD:  Well, yeah.  I played quite solidly here the last two days.  My only bogeys, two yesterday and one today, were all three putts, which    it's frustrating, I'm going to have to work on my lag putting a little bit.  But last week    I don't know if it was bad luck hitting it in the bunkers.  You hit bad shots and you get in the bunkers.  But my misses are only slightly off line sometimes, and that's where the bunkers were last week.

But this week it's a little more generous off the tee and you can get away with that.  All in all, I've played pretty nicely the last two days, and now I've got to catch Woozy.
Q.  We were half discussing, as well, it's a big week because you're going to have a couple of weeks off now.  Double the Ryder Cup chance this week because the World Points are good, and there are 600,000 points for the European Points list, as well, so it is a big week for you.
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, obviously these last few events are very critical.  If you can sneak in a few good weeks, especially when I'm over here    if I happen to win or finish 2nd, then I've got a good chance of even qualifying on the European Tour Order of Merit.  It's a big week in that way.

Also it's nice to see there's a pretty strong field this week, and if I play solidly I'm going to gain some World Ranking Points, as well.  Obviously this would be a nice week to have a good weekend.
Q.  I just wondered how much you got from playing with Sergio over two days.  You looked like you were both enjoying it.
LUKE DONALD:  You know, it's no secret that we're good friends on and off the course, and that always helps when you're out there.  I think we kind of led each other on this week.  These last two days we made a lot of birdies out there, and that's always fun.  When you're struggling, and even if you're friends and you're struggling, it's not so much fun.  But it's always    I enjoy playing with Sergio.  He keeps it very light hearted out there, and that makes the game a lot easier.
Q.  Like match play and you got him on the last?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, I managed to sneak him on the last.  He had a bit of a poor shot for his standard, and I managed to sneak a birdie.  Shame, it would have been nice if he birdied, too, and we could have played tomorrow.
Q.  What's your schedule for the next weeks?
LUKE DONALD:  I have two weeks off after this.  I'm heading back to Chicago.  Then I play the PGA, the Bridgestone world event, and then back to Germany for Munich, BMW.
NICOLAI LAUDE:  Thank you very much, Luke, and hopefully you will play together with Ian tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT