THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2006
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LUKE DONALD:  Today was more a case of I just really didn't swing very well.  I didn't hit the right shots when I needed to and I didn't take advantage of the par 5s and it all added up to 73.  But, you know, they want it so much, the English players, sometimes it backfires on them.
Q.  Is it a problem that playing so much in America you don't play on linksy courses?  Jack was saying yesterday that you should be able to play on any course.
LUKE DONALD:  Everything I do in my swing is geared towards hitting it higher and farther.  That's very much against what you need on a links course.  But in saying that, most people are doing that, even over here in the European Tour.  It's not an excuse.

The Ryder Cup is a different game all together.  As far as I know I've not played the K Club.  I believe it's very much like an American course, not linksy like many other courses in Ireland.  They are always well fought battles, and I'm sure it will be a good match this year.
Q.  What will be your intention tomorrow?
LUKE DONALD:  Hopefully go out and score a good round.  If the weather stays pretty calm, which it was today, you can make some birdies.  They're tucking the pins a little bit to make it a little tougher, but if you play solid, five, six or seven under is out there.  If I could do that I'd have a good finish.
Q.  Do you feel you're putting a little bit too much pressure on yourself for the weekend?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, I think at the start of the week.  This is a tournament I really want to play well in.  I almost have to treat it like any other event, but that's hard.  There is a lot of media and a lot of attention.  I've had a good year this year and I felt like I had a good chance, but so far I haven't quite figured it out and I've got to keep trying to figure out how to play better at the Open Championship.
Q.  You've got plenty of time yet, haven't you?
LUKE DONALD:  I've got plenty of time to work on it.  If I have a good round tomorrow it will be my best Open finish.  Of all the four majors perhaps the U.S. Open would be more favored to my game.  But if I'm playing well I don't see why I can't win one here.
Q.  What do you think of Tiger's approach of not hitting a driver in two days or just hitting one driver in two days?
LUKE DONALD:  It's working.  It's not what I would have thought at the beginning of the week, but there's quite a few holes where he can take the bunkers out of play with the driver and the rough isn't too bad, but he's decided he wants to play short of it.  He knows he's a good 5  and 6 iron player.  He's taking advantage of the holes where he's hitting shorter irons in.  Right now it's working perfectly.  I wonder if he'll want to get a bit more aggressive at the weekend or not.
Q.  Would you consider taking a similar approach?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, I was more aggressive on the first day and less aggressive the last two days.  I played nicely yesterday, but I found too many fairway bunkers this week.  Today I was in 16 and another one somewhere.  I hit a couple of greenside bunkers, as well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT