THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2015
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How happy are you with how your round went today?  LUKE DONALD: It was a solid round.  You know, I foresee -- got a little hot in the middle part of my round, birdied 10, 11, 12.  At that point coming back into the wind it was going to be tough, but I thought if I snuck a couple more birdies, who knows what might happen with the forecast not looking great this afternoon.  But it was a solid round, and a pretty solid week overall.   Q.  Do you think it was good that you got out earlier?  LUKE DONALD: Yeah, that's exactly why I shot 73 yesterday because I knew the conditions were going to be worse -- no, I'm joking.  Yeah, I knew with the forecast that if I could go really low, post a number, who knows, because that back nine is playing tough.  It's not got too windy right now, but with the drizzle and coming back into the wind, a lot of those holes are playing very, very long.   Q.  General assessment of your week?  LUKE DONALD: Solid.  You know, yesterday was disappointing to shoot 73 on a day when 68 was probably par.  I just didn't hole the putts when I needed to.  I played average and just didn't hole the putts when I had my opportunities.  For me to be contending, I've got to putt extremely well for all four days.   Q.  You also played very well on the front nine.  The BBC haven't been showing live coverage of this morning's play.  Does that frustrate you at all that British fans wouldn't have been able to see you play like that today?  LUKE DONALD: You know, I think this being The Open Championship, you know, you'd love to have coverage all day long, just to watch all kinds of different story lines.  Obviously this is a tournament where you can get someone coming up from behind.  It's a very typical links day today, downwind on the front nine and back into the wind on the back nine.  It's two very different kind of golf courses, and just to see that play would have been fun.  I know Phil was playing well, too, so there was definitely some story lines that would have been nice to have -- a lot of guys would have appreciated watching.   Q.  So do you think viewers missed out on the lot of the story lines?  LUKE DONALD: Well, if you give the viewer the choice, they'd want to see eight, ten hours of coverage, so yeah, they would obviously love to see that.   Q.  Did it feel different playing the final day on a Monday to you?  LUKE DONALD: Not really.  I haven't really thought about it to be honest.  Just unfortunate, you know, with the weather we had on Saturday.  But these things happen.  I was just ready to play whenever we were told to go.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  LUKE DONALD: I go straight to Canada now, play the Canadian Open, and then I need to move back into top 50 to get into Akron.  Moving closer every week, though, so hopefully I can have a solid week next week and get in the top 50 and play Akron and PGA.   Q.  You're in the U.S. PGA?  LUKE DONALD: I'm in the PGA Championship, yeah.   Q.  Golf has continued to grow and stay in the public's consciousness; do you think that golf does need to be on terrestrial TV?  LUKE DONALD: It's a tough one.  It's hard to turn down the amount of money and effort that Sky are putting into golf.  But yeah, obviously not everyone has the luxury of having Sky to watch that.  But it's a tough argument.  You can see it both ways.  But there is certain tradition and history with having The Open Championship on the BBC, and everyone having that opportunity to watch it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT