CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 7, 2006
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about playing with Tiger today.  I know you've been in similar situations.
LUKE DONALD:  I think the crowds aren't too unmanageable here, good support, but they weren't ten deep or anything.  It was manageable.  The only tough thing is people moving after he's finished the hole.

Other than that, I enjoy playing with Tiger.
Q.  How would you assess your round today?
LUKE DONALD:  I've been hitting a lot of good shots but hitting a few loose ones, too.  A couple 3 woods off the tee cost me a couple bogeys on 16 and then on the 3rd hole.  When I'm hitting greens, I'm making a lot of putts.  I'm putting really well.  I haven't really hit enough greens.

It's a little inconsistent and I need to work on it, but it's close to being very good.
Q.  5 under, though, do you like your position going into tomorrow?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, I'm in good shape as long as no one goes too crazy today.  Usually somewhere between 10 and 15 wins this, so I'm going to have to shoot a couple good rounds on the weekends.
Q.  Does the British creep into your head at all yet?
LUKE DONALD:  No, I'm not thinking about it.  Just trying to take one tournament at a time.
Q.  Did you have to go really low today?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, conditions were really good.  No wind, the greens were holding pretty well.  As long as you keep it in the fairway, there's a lot of birdie opportunities out there.  You know, to have shot 4  or 5 under is a good round today, but I think 7  or 8 under is out there.
Q.  Do you feel like the local hero here?
LUKE DONALD:  Somewhat, yeah.  I've lived here for nine years now, so the crowd has taken me under their wing.  It's nice and it feels good.  There's a lot of support here.  Not quite as loud as the cheers for Tiger, but it's getting close.
Q.  Is it tough playing with him in your group?
LUKE DONALD:  Again, I didn't really have any problems today.  As I said, sometimes the crowd moves a little bit after he's finished the hole, and if you have a short putt that can be a little distracting.  But I enjoy playing with Tiger.
Q.  Did you know Randy Walker very well?
LUKE DONALD:  I only met him once very briefly.  I didn't know him very well, but I feel very sad for their family and sad for everyone.  It's hard to believe.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT