CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 6, 2006
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about the struggle on 18 after a really good first 17 holes.
LUKE DONALD:  Well, I played pretty nicely today.  Obviously I played really good for the first 11, 12 holes, and then I started driving it poorly, missed the fairway on 14, missed the green on 14, and missed the last two fairways, so I was a little stuck at the end and it kind of caught up with me.
Q.  The people of Chicago have really kind of taken you in as one of their own.  Do you feel that out there?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, absolutely.  I feel like this is a home event.  This is kind of a local crowd and they support me all the way, so it's a nice event to be a part of.
Q.  There were a lot of tee shirts with your name on them.
LUKE DONALD:  I didn't see that.  I was kind of focusing on the golf, but yeah, it was nice, the support.
Q.  Talk about your driving a little bit.  It changed over the last few holes and you started missing fairways.  What were you feeling there?
LUKE DONALD:  You know, the rough is thick out here, and you start missing fairways, then it's a tricky golf course.  I've been working on a few things, and I feel like I'm going to hit every shot with a slight fade, and at the end I was just holding on a little bit too much and missing to the left there the last few holes.  Yeah, 18, I didn't play the hole well, so it was disappointing to finish a round like that.
Q.  The way you and Tiger exchanged like three strokes, does that tell you something about how fickle the game is?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, there's a long way to go, but golf can change like that, yeah.  There's a lot of hard holes out here.  Conditions were good today and you could make some birdies.  18 Tiger hit sand iron.  It wasn't that difficult if you got it in the fairway.  It's disappointing to drive it poorly the last couple holes.
Q.  Some people were talking about the greens may have been a little slower than some of the other Tour stops this year.  Did you feel the same way?
LUKE DONALD:  A little slow.  Yesterday in the afternoon, too, they were a little bit slow.  I made sure after my round yesterday that I went to the putting green and worked on the pace because I was coming up short quite a bit yesterday.  Today my pace was pretty good.  They were a little bit slower than what we usually putt on.
Q.  Did Tiger Woods hit three balls on 15?
LUKE DONALD:  No, he obviously hit it right on 15, hit a provisional and then found his first one, so he went back to the tee and then smoked one down the middle.
Q.  So when he found the ball it was in a hazard?
LUKE DONALD:  It wasn't in the hazard, it was in play but just trees, and I think he called an unplayable.  If it was a hazard, he could have dropped it right there.  Actually then the provisional doesn't mean anything, so then you have to decide what you're going to do with the first ball.
Q.  Vijay mentioned how for him driver is everything on this course.  You mentioned yourself about hitting the fairway.  Is driver everything as far as setting yourself up?
LUKE DONALD:  You've still got to make putts and hit good shots, but it helps to play from the fairway, that's for sure.  The rough is quite tangly, especially the first ten yards off the fairway it's pretty deep.  If you miss it really wide you can sometimes get a good lie.  But it's pretty tangly out there like it is most weeks.
Q.  You've been really consistent this year and successful.  Are you aware of the Ryder Cup points and all that?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, I had a great experience two years ago and I'd love to make that team.  I'm trying my hardest to make it.  I've got it in the back of my mind.  I don't really want it to rule everything.  You know, I want to approach every week and try and win that week, and not think about Ryder Cup.  If I keep playing consistently the way I've been playing, then hopefully it will take care of itself.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT