BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 9, 2006
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  I imagine playing with someone like Phil is not a big deal for you; you've reached a level.  Does it bring out anything better in you?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, I think it's almost a bonus playing with good players rather than, I guess    not making up the numbers but lesser known players.  You get more crowd and more atmosphere, makes you concentrate a bit more.  It's actually the first time I've ever played with Phil since a practice round in 99 at the British Open.  We've somehow missed each other the last five years.
Q.  Do you know him well?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, we say hello.  I wouldn't say I know him very well.  I got to know him a little bit better.
Q.  You didn't play against him at Oakland Hills, did you?
LUKE DONALD:  No, we were never up against each other.
Q.  Talking about Winged Foot, are you beginning to steer your game around and sort of build towards majors?
LUKE DONALD:  You definitely set your schedule up around the majors to a certain extent, at least a few events leading up to them.  Usually I play the week before.  Obviously you want to try and get your game to peak at a major, but it's hard to do that.  You definitely put a little bit more time in around those majors, and those are the key events.  You want to win those more than anything.
Q.  When you're playing well on a day like today or this week, do you allow yourself to think, I'm playing well, I'm obviously in good form and that's a good sign leading into next week?
LUKE DONALD:  I think it's more a question of when you're out there you're concentrating on the round at hand.  You're thinking about this tournament and that round.  After the round I might put a little more work in than a normal week, just really sharpen up my short game more than anything.  Really you just try and stay in the present.
Q.  You were in contention here two years ago; is that correct?
LUKE DONALD:  Two years ago.  I finished 6th or 7th.
Q.  You were higher up than that at one point, weren't you?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, I think I was maybe tied for the lead going into the last round and shot 1 over on the last round.  Couldn't get much going.
Q.  Would you say you're a much improved player since then?
LUKE DONALD:  Absolutely.  I've won a few times, I've won in Europe, I've won over here, I won an event at the end of the year, the Target.  That brings a lot of confidence.  My game is getting better, physically and mentally, I'm a better golfer.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT