VOLVO MASTERS
October 30, 2005
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  7 under, best round of the week so far, at what stage in that round did you look at the board and think, hang on?
LUKE DONALD:  Not really until I got to 16 green.  I had a quick peak there and saw that I was only a couple of behind.  So I thought if I could sneak a couple of birdies in, 8  or 9 under could be good enough.

But the putts didn't quite drop on the last.  I think I used them all up on the first 16.  But still, a good round.
Q.  Give us a sense of how the last few holes are playing, is it possible to make four pars comfortably to close the deal?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, I don't think comfortable is the word out here.  You've got to hit good shots around this course.  One loose shot and you're staring bogey in the face.  But the conditions and the wind is pretty similar to how it has been playing, so it's nothing unfamiliar to the players.  You'd like to think 17 is reachable in two for most of the guys and then could pick up a birdie there.  But you never know.  I'll have to stick around.
Q.  You're not heading to the airport, are you?
LUKE DONALD:  No, I'll stick around and watch a little bit and see what happens.
Q.  Was that the best you've struck it all week, or was it just the putting that got you going this time?
LUKE DONALD:  You know, I hit it nicely today.  I didn't hit it any better than some of the other days.  I think I had a couple of double bogeys in one round that killed me.  And then I think once I started trying to play catch up, I was just pressing too hard.  It's not having fun out here, and as soon as I hit a slightly bad shot which you can hit easily around here, you just get down on yourself and it kind of snowballed.

Today I thought, well, I'm just going to have fun no matter what happens, if I hit bad shots.  You're going to get behind trees around here, you might make a few bogeys around here; I didn't today, but if you can just try and laugh them off, then I think that's the way to play this course.
Q.  You don't play catch up on this course do you?
LUKE DONALD:  It's very hard.  You've just got to try and enjoy yourself.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT