HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2005
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. We have just spoken to Bernhard Langer, who was extremely complimentary towards you - looking forward to facing him on Thursday?
LUKE DONALD: I don't think there is ever going to be an easy match out here. There are 16 world-class players in the field and Bernhard is one of them. It's going to be a tough match. Bernhard gets the most out of every game he plays out there. He's a very hard worker, very methodical about what he does. He will know the course and what shots he wants to play out there and he'll never give up because he is a great competitor. I have played with a few times in the last couple of years and I think it's going to be a great match.
Q. Have you gotten to know him well - will you have time for a chat out there?
LUKE DONALD: I know him reasonably well, but I don't think that either of us are the most chatty of people when we are out on the course, but I'm sure we'll talk around a little bit. We have become better friends since the Ryder Cup. It was great being under his Captaincy but we'll be mostly concentrating on beating each other out there. I played under him at the Ryder Cup. He does everything in a systematic way. He doesn't leave much out there on the golf course and I will have to play well. We are similar in that respect.
Q.  How's the game?
LUKE DONALD: My game feels fine. I played five weeks on the trot but then had a week off last week when I went to Spain for a week's holiday and then came here to get ready and my game is all right at the minute.
Q. The format is different this week and the course is perhaps different from the BMW week in May?
LUKE DONALD: Yes. It plays a little bit different. It's not quite as firm and fast as it was a few months ago and the greens are a little bit softer but they are in great condition, rolling beautifully, and the course is in good shape all round. Because of that, and the format, I think you are going to need a few birdies if you want to have any chance to win your match this week.
Q.
What did you do last week?
LUKE DONALD:  I went to Spain until Saturday - eight of us went there for my dad's 70th birthday (Colin Donald). It was nice. We were all together at Christmas and we had time with them at Crans, which was nice. We got back late Saturday night and came here on Monday. I played one game with my two brothers and brother-in-law on Friday in Spain. That was nice. Chris is a club pro and the others are 14 and 20 handicap. We had a little game and my brother and brother-in-law won 1-up, so I wasn't too happy about that!
Q. The course at this time of year?
LUKE DONALD:  It plays differently to May. This isn't October but the greens are a bit softer and take the shots. The course is in great shape.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT