BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2005
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. 67 is not a bad score, but might it have been just a little better?
LUKE DONALD: Well, you look back and think -- What if, what if I hadn't made those two bogeys? --  Those were costly mistakes but I came back well and made some good birdies coming in. I am playing well, hitting the ball well and giving myself a lot of chances which is encouraging.  So hopefully I can keep doing the same tomorrow and a few more putts will drop.
Q. Adam Scott said the course was there to be taken, is that fair?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, in these conditions, yes. The fairways are reasonably generous and if you don't get bad weather or a little wind, there is not too much to hold back these guys and if you hit a lot of fairways, you are going to make a lot of chances on these greens. You feel like you can birdie every hole out there, that's for sure with these benign conditions.
Q. Three behind at the moment, what do you have to do tomorrow to win?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, I have to get off to a fast start. The front nine is where you want to make most of your score that is for sure because the back nine seems to play a little bit harder but the pins are going to be tougher tomorrow, I saw where they plan to put them and if I could squeeze out five or six under, I might have a chance.
Q. How is this for preparation for next week?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, it is a different type of golf but for me I like to play the week before a Major, it gets me in the swing of things so that I go there knowing how I am playing and how I am hitting the golf ball and in that way it is great preparation. And if you can be up there with the leaders in contention, feeling a little bit of pressure then that can only help even more.
Q. Particularly with the calibre of player leading here?
LUKE DONALD:  Yes, it is a great leaderboard, a lot of world-class players up there, so it should be a really fun day tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT