CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
June 29, 2005
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ED JAMES:  Good afternoon.  My name is Ed James, and I'm president of the Western Golf Association, and I want to thank all of you for coming.

Before I begin, however, I'd like to introduce Paul Clark, ICOS chairman and president and CEO, and our featured artist, Luke Donald, former Northwestern University golf star.  Luke finished 3rd in the 2004 Cialis Western Open and currently ranks 13 in the World Golf Rankings.  Would you please stand up and say hello, just stand up and be acknowledged?  Thank you.

(Applause)
ED JAMES:  I'd be remiss if I didn't say thank you, Paul and Luke, for your support to the Cialis Western Open and our sole charity, the Evans Scholars Foundation.  It's appropriate to note, I believe, that Luke developed his golf and artistic talents at Northwestern University, where the Evans Scholarships were founded 75 years ago, in 1930.

Today, 44 Evans scholars live in the Northwestern Scholarship House.  I'm a firm believer in the value of education, and the appreciation of art is a vital component of the a well rounded education, so we're proud for the past two years, our sponsor Lilly ICOS has sponsored an Artists' Experience showcasing the talents of local artists through on course paintings created during our Championship.

Luke's painting highlights this new partnership between golf and art, and we invite everyone to watch the artists from the school of the art institute in the Artists' Experience tent as they create their paintings.

Luke, thank you for creating such a compelling work of art for us, and Paul, thank you and everyone at Cialis for your leadership in supporting our championship and the Evans Scholarships.  Thank you.

PAUL CLARK:  Thanks, Ed.  On behalf of Lilly ICOS, I'd like to thank Luke for this truly beautiful work of art that's become such an integral part of the Cialis Western Open.  As fans, we are fortunate to have been given a glimpse into Luke's life off the green and what he does to relax when he's not playing golf.

This painting exemplifies the message we're sending fans that relaxation is the key of their success on and off the course and crucial to their enjoyment of the game.  We're very pleased to be part of this new initiative as an extension of the unique combination of golf and art that we have supported through the artist experience at the Cialis Western Open.

Luke, please come up.
LUKE DONALD:  Thank you very much, Paul, and it's a great honor to be here, to be presenting this painting to the Western Golf Association.  Obviously a lot of you guys know, I have a big passion in golf and I also have a passion in art, and it was nice to be able to do this to bring those two facets together.

Just to talk a little bit about the painting, I've really tried to capture the dynamic movement of the golf swing but also correlating it to the Western Golf Cialis Western Open by picturing a shot of last year's winner Stephen Ames hitting into 18.  You know, hopefully it turned out okay.  I'm quite critical of my work usually, but I quite enjoyed doing this one, and I thought it turned out okay.

To the Cialis Western Open and to the Western Golf Association, they have been very important to me, and I'm very happy to be a part of this initiative and look forward to doing something similar in years to come hopefully.  Thank you very much.

(Applause)

PAUL CLARK:  I might add that the picture is going to be displayed at the spectator pavilion for the rest of the week, so please stop by and encourage your friends to see the beautiful painting.
ED JAMES:  On behalf of WGA we accept this beautiful painting, and it will be displayed, as Paul says, in our headquarters.  Thank you, Paul, and thank you, Luke, for this lasting and wonderful, wonderful gift.  We certainly do appreciate it.

We appreciate the talents you bring to Cialis Western Open, both on the golf course and through this painting.  We're honored to receive this landmark painting by a Northwestern graduate and one of golf's rising stars and a fellow Evanstonian from way back when.  We wish you all the best in golf and in your career as an artist.  We're going to proudly display this painting at our Western Golf Association Headquarters in the Village of Golf, Illinois.  Thank you again for your support of our championship and our Scholarships.  Thank you.

(Applause)


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT