FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 11, 2015
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Interesting opening round already.   Mixed scorecard for you.  
LUKE DONALD:   It was a mixed round.   Little bit -- I played poorly my first nine holes.   Scrambled pretty well, and I got caught on 18, hit a poor drive left in the water there, but hit the ball better on my last nine holes.   Unfortunately, bogeyed the last, but excited that I started hitting it a bit better on the front-9, found something and was able to get a pretty good score.   It's not an easy golf course.   This is my first time looking at this.   Certainly the way I played, 69 is probably a little bit better than what I should have probably done.  
   
 Q.   Conditions with the heat rising, I guess you like to get an early tee time on a day like today.  
LUKE DONALD:   It was nice this morning.   It's going to be warm.   Pretty nice this morning and take advantage of some tough greens, which I did.   I made some putts.  
   
 Q.   In general terms, how sharp is the game?   How good do you feel about your game?  
LUKE DONALD:   Well, as I said, I didn't hit the ball very well the front-9, which is strange because it's been a little bit of a reversal of what I've been used to.   Hitting the ball well and not making as many putts.   Certainly today I didn't hit it as good as I would like and made some putts.   It's a strange game.   You keep trying.   Lots of ebbs and flows in this game.   Certainly I feel like I'm going in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   Your week started in great fashion on Monday coming through U.S. Open qualifying.   You must already be looking forward the Chambers Bay next week.  
LUKE DONALD:   I haven't been there.   Different stories about the place, but looking forward to playing another U.S. Open.   We always strive as players to play in those Majors and have a chance to win and win Majors.   Nice to be there and strange feeling having to qualify again, but I was able to come through and looking forward to next week.  
   
 Q.   What do you expect to see at Chambers Bay?   So much is being said and written about the place.   What are you expecting to find?  
LUKE DONALD:   I think the U.S. Open is always a tough test.   The fairways are a bit more generous than usually they are.   Huge undulating greens.   It's a course where you're going to need to keep it on the shortcut.  
   
 Q.   Good start to this week.   Enjoy the rest of this week, and we wish you the best the rest of this week.  
LUKE DONALD:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT