THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2005
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
We have Luke Donald with a 6-under par 66 today.

18 and 9 were interesting.
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, I had some good breaks today.  18, I was playing a fade all day, and I just tried to hit a little fade kind of down the left side, and it kept pretty straight.  It looked okay in the air, but I didn't think it was as close as it was, but it did bounce off the railing and luckily cleared by a couple inches.  That was a good break.
Q.  9 hit the tree?
LUKE DONALD:  9, if it didn't hit the tree, I think it still would have been on the green somewhere close.  It just took the spin and distance off it so it rolled out, but if it hadn't hit the tree, I'm guessing it would have been 15 feet instead of eight feet.
Q.  Talk about the drive on 18.  When it was in the   air --
LUKE DONALD:  I mean, I was looking it down, but it looked like it was on a safe enough line.  I hit it well enough where I thought it would carry.  I didn't hit it that close, and as soon as I hit it Tom Pernice was like, great drive.  It was a lot closer than I thought.  I got away with that one.
Q.  Did getting out first today allow you guys to play just the tempo you wanted?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, it was a good speed.  We never had to wait for anyone.  We had perfect greens for nine holes, and even the back side -- the front side, our back side, the greens were pretty good anyway.  We got off to a decent start, and I think going out on the front is a good position to be, especially with these conditions.
Q.  How do you keep it up now for the next couple days?
LUKE DONALD:  Just keep doing what I'm doing.  I hit a lot of fairways today.  As soon as you get a little crooked off the tee, you're going to get in trouble out here.  You know, the conditions are great, the greens are soft.  If you keep it in the fairway you can be a bit more aggressive.  If not, it's going to be a tougher course.
Q.  Christian has been the star here the last two years rather than you.
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, he didn't quite perform as well this year, but finally I'm getting my own back here.  I haven't played that well here the last two years, so it's nice to post a good round.
Q.  Was there any sense of feeding off the good break at the 18th just looking at your score?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, I think so.  You need those good breaks to post a round like that out here.  It's a tough course, and it can bite you quite quickly out here.

I got a couple good breaks there.  18 was a break, a couple shots I thought might have missed fairways, didn't, a couple favorable bounces, and that could have been the difference between 66 and 70.

It was kind of -- kept the momentum going.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT