VOLVO MASTERS ANDALUCIA
October 28, 2004
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LUKE DONALD:  I was determined to shoot a good back nine.  I didn't do a lot wrong on the front.  It's tricky out there with the wind but just, you know, I knew there was a few opportunities out there.  Just keep it in play off the tee, you can give yourself some chances and that's what I did.
Q.  Playing as well as you are, is it easier to play here?
LUKE DONALD:  Well, as good a tournament as this, you know the pressure is off because you're not going to go home after five.  You keep trying because you know it matters that much more because you are going to be here till Sunday anyway.

I knew 2-over wasn't bad.  The scoring wasn't that good.  If I can make a few birdies I'll get right back into it.
Q.  Other people have said that you are ideally suited to this course, accurate off the tee and into the green; do you feel comfortable here?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, I think this course does suit me.  You really have to place your tee shots well and you have to place your shots into the green because, more importantly, the greens are pretty slopey and you need to stay below the hole.  I had a lot of good chances for birdies when I was coming up the hill and have a run at it and that's why I mentioned birdies on the back nine.
Q.  Do you feel like every day you play you are learning more about it?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, there's a lot of hidden trees and catches in the green and you thought you hit a good shot and it comes up ten yards short.  I'm learning as I go along and hopefully Sunday I will have figured it all out.
Q.  So 37 at the turn, how far were your putts?
LUKE DONALD:  11, I hit it to the front edge of the green and chipped to four feet.

Then I made a birdie on 14.  I hit 3-wood, 7-iron to about ten feet.

15, I hit a 4-iron to about four feet.

17, my third shot was a 9-iron, a punch 9-iron to about four feet again.  So not huge putts, but good iron play.
Q.  I think it was appreciably more difficult than when you woke up this morning, was it?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, didn't seem very windy this morning.  The wind definitely picked up when we played and, well, that's the penalty for doing well every year, you get the late tee times.
Q.  It was done in qualifying order.
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, exactly.  I look forward to playing late on the weekends, so got to get used to it at some point.
Q.  Do you feel that par is the mark, really, still in the Top-10?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah.  I'm Top-10 today.  Those breezes, it's tricky out there.  You don't know whether the wind is going to shelter your shot or not.  You know, par was a good score today and I'll take 2-under.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT