DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 29, 2015
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just like yesterday, five birdies and four bogeys.   How do you feel about this one?   
LUKE DONALD:   Similar to yesterday.   It was a pretty solid round.   I think conditions were a little bit tougher today.   I think with the changeable weather we had, the showers that kept coming through, it made it tough.   You had to be pretty patient.   
I made a couple bogeys early on in my round that steadied the ship around the turn, and I had a good little run which was kind of the key to my round today.   But I felt pretty much in control and it's nice to see some putts going in and I'm happy with where I am right now.  
   
 Q.   You told us in the past that you prefer tough courses to birdie‑fests.   This one tough enough for you?  
LUKE DONALD:   It's pretty tough.   4‑under is leading right now.   No, it's a good test.   And when you have conditions like this, it just makes it even tougher.   So you really have to think your way around this place and control your ball.   As I said, it's a gem of a links course but a tough one at that.  
   
 Q.   Commentators have said that your game is returning to its best pretty rapidly.   Is that how you feel?   
LUKE DONALD:   You know, I don't think my ball‑striking was too far away the last few months.   I haven't putted and chipped as well as I would have liked, and for me, I need to do that.   The last month or so, I've seen some good signs in that department of my game.   When that clicks into place, it tends to make everything feel a bit more comfortable.   Yeah, I'm happy with the progress that I've seen.   
   
 Q.   You talked about good things happening for you.   Do you feel like this is a trend that's been coming on for the last couple of months, and if so, why?   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think with all the changes that I went through, it took a little bit away from my focus of how I usually practice.   I was concentrating on changing my swing and changing it back.   When you have a focus outside of every day waking up and having a plan of doing this, this and this, it kind of got a little bit lost.   So definitely being back with Pat and having that plan in place now, I feel like I'm starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel.  
   
 Q.   What does it say that your good stuff is coming through, good birdies the last two days, on arguably the toughest test you'll face all year?  
LUKE DONALD:   Ten birdies around here is great.   Obviously I'd love to minimise the mistakes a little bit but this is a very tough course.   But the ten birdies is very encouraging.   Through some good ball striking and better putting, which for me is always a big key to my game.  
   
 Q.   When you see the rankings at 65th, in what way does it drive you?   
LUKE DONALD:   I'm very aware where I am.   Each day I'm not really trying to think about it too much though.   For me, the goal is to be ready tomorrow when I have to tee it up and not get too far ahead.   I think that I have a reasonable active mind, anyway, so the more I can just kind of concentrate on what I need to do to just stay in front of myself and stay in the present, I think that's going to help me.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT