BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 26, 2004
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LUKE DONALD:  Once you get in the fairway -- once I hit it, I felt like the wind got up a little bit and got up higher than I wanted it to and it got up a couple feet short of the front edge.  To be honest I thought it would be okay.  There's a little rough at the bottom there, but it went back into the hazard.  A disappointing 6 after you're expecting to make 4 there.
Q.  Did you enjoy playing with Monty and how would you assess his game?
LUKE DONALD:  He played solid today.  He didn't make a bogey, I believe.  He missed some chances but he had some good up-and-downs.  All in all, he hit it pretty solidly, I think.  It was fun playing with him.  He was in good spirits the whole way around.  I think it's the first time I played with him in competition but I played a few practice rounds with him.  It was good fun.  I think we both had fun out there.
Q.  Ryder Cup, did it come up in conversation when you were out there?
LUKE DONALD:  Very briefly at the beginning before we even teed off.  He just said, "Do you think we are okay" and that was it.  I hope so.  At first, I didn't know -- I didn't know what he was going on about, but we'll find out in a few days.
Q.  Said it with a smile?
LUKE DONALD:  He did.
Q.  Luke, did you feel any pressure, anymore pressure than usual going out there, and did you also look at Colin as though there was another competition between you?
LUKE DONALD:  Not really.  My biggest pressure week was probably last week.  I really wanted to get on the team automatically.  I got in a position to do that and finished Sunday off with a few bogeys which was disappointing.  But there was no really competition out here, I don't think.  I think it's good for you're own golf and good for the Ryder Cup Team and people on the edge of being selected as a wild-card.  They are playing well.  It can only be good for the team.  So, no competition.
Q.  And what would you think about teaming up with Monty in the Ryder Cup?
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, I haven't really thought about if I made the team and if Montgomerie made the team, who I could play with.  Obviously I played with Paul Casey in the Walker Cup before.

Colin would probably be a good partner.  I think he's very consistent.   He's pretty straight off the tee.  He's got a lot of experience.  He's very determined.  I mean, you could see out there how determined he was to play well today.
Q.  When did you last time talk to Bernhard about the Ryder Cup?
LUKE DONALD:  We had a dinner at the NEC last week, Tuesday of last week, a lot of the players, potential players who are close to making it and players who are already in had a dinner.  And that was the last time I talked to Bernhard.
Q.  What about just the two of you?
LUKE DONALD:  I played a practice round, nine holes with him on Tuesday, with him and Fredrik Jacobson and had a little one-on-one time.  We didn't really talk too much about Ryder Cup.  He's a smart guy.  He knows the situation, how I'm playing and how everyone else is playing, I'm sure.  He'll make a good decision.
Q.  Was it difficult to make the determination to go for the Ryder Cup?  At the start of the season, it didn't seem as if you had made that determination.
LUKE DONALD:  Well, at the start of the season, I was nowhere near the Top 50.  Without getting in the majors and the World events, it seemed very hard for me to play 11 events over here and be successful on the U.S. tour.  Luckily I got off to a good start in the U.S.

It's still hard to sit fit in 11.  My 11th tournament will be the Volvo Masters, and that's pretty much playing the last couple months of the season over here.  It did seem harder at one point.  There were a couple of rule changes which changed my decision to rejoin the European Tour, and luckily I've been playing well and giving this Ryder Cup thing a good chance.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT