EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2004
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How did you finish up on the last two?
LUKE DONALD:  I eagled 16, birdied 17 and parred the last.
Q.  Tell me about your eagle.
LUKE DONALD:  I hit a 3-wood just short, about three yards short of the green and just chipped it in.
Q.  What's the lowest do you think they will be at the end of the day?
LUKE DONALD:  It's tough to tell.  The course is playing with no wind and everything is so soft.  If you're hitting good shots you can make some birdies out there.  Hopefully I'll still be in striking distance anyway to give myself a good chance, maybe three or four behind, and still have a good chance.
Q.  Has it almost been like three different days condition-wise?  Yesterday was so much tougher.
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, yesterday was pretty good.  I played early yesterday, and it was cold and windy.

The practice day, we played this side downwind, and the wind has switched because it's coming from the north now, so it made a few holes really tough.  It made 16 tough -- it was playing a lot tougher yesterday, easier today.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LUKE DONALD:  Pretty good, yeah.  I'm keeping it in play a lot.  I haven't missed too many fairways, hit a couple fringes today, which throws my stats off a bit.

But I think through two rounds I was maybe third or fourth in driving accuracy.  The rough has been real high this year and that's important.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LUKE DONALD:  I just kind of had it my way today.  17, that pin was tough on the left, and I wasn't really going for it, but I just drew it in a little bit more than I wanted to and it ended up six feet away.  I got some really good breaks like that.
Q.  What did you hit there?
LUKE DONALD:  6-iron.
Q.  It must have been nice to have that late in the round like that.  Maybe that will carry you over to tomorrow possibly.
LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, a good finish.  I knew if I played a good round today it might have been so bunched that you could make a good move and still have a good chance to win tomorrow.  I'm really happy with that finish, especially since I was doing good up until then, and then 3-under the last three really helps.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT