WALKER CUP MATCH
August 12, 2001
Luke Donald
Peter McEvoy
Gary Wolstenholme
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PETER MCEVOY:   Well I do think it is the best team that's ever represented Great Britain and Ireland.  I did say before we left Britain that there had never been so accomplished a side gathered together leaving our shores, particularly in terms of their international experience and their international success.  I think they proved everything that I thought.  I was very bullish before Narin and I tried to play that down a little bit this time because I thought it was inappropriate when we playing away and probably not quite  -- not quite so true, but I think the team probably this team was better.  But the challenge was much greater, and to win by the same margin that we won by in Narin is a greater achievement. Personally, I think  -- it's different when you are captain than when you are a player.  You can't compare the two things.  Certainly, I can't remember a prouder moment. 

Q.  I know you've said you are not going to captain again.  Could anything make you come back for a third time, and if not, why not? 

PETER MCEVOY:   I just think it's convention.  I think you get one at home and one away and that's it.  So I'm yesterday's man, or will be tomorrow, anyway.  (Laughter.)

Q.  If they asked you, would you consider it? 

PETER MCEVOY:   No, because if I say yes, then it would be portrayed as trying to push for it.  I just think it's without precedence, so I'm not sure it's something that will be even introduced, really. 

GARY WOLSTENHOLME:  Yeah, well I'm pleased with the way this week has gone and I'm looking forward to having an opportunity to compete in this.  It's a fantastic experience.  I wish Peter could be captain again.  We seem to have a good ability to win things.  I don't know how we do it, but we do, and it's just a fantastic occasion for me.  I just look forward to the next chance and if I'm good enough, then hopefully, I'll be on the team. 

LUKE DONALD:  I've had a very successful amateur career, and some of my memorable experiences being the two Walker Cups at Narin and here this week at Ocean Forest and they will always live in my memory.  They really have been the best experiences, especially, definitely as a team, and if not in my whole career. 

Q.  You mentioned earlier in the week about the possible shifting of dominance over to your side in these matches.  Has it happened now? 

PETER MCEVOY:   I don't think there's a shift in dominance by any means.  I think we are now competitive, but that was  -- that was a very good American team, I thought.  I think there will be a lot of players come out of that team who have, you know, exceptionally successful professional careers.  I think we just played better golf on the day.  I think we were very close as a team, and that's just  -- that's not something that you can force or something you can do anything necessarily to achieve or to attain.  Last night when we went out to play those extra holes, the whole team came without me bothering to ask or need to go ask.  They all came out to the 17th tee when Michael was playing, and it was a natural reaction.  It just happens that way.  Again, with another ten people, maybe it wouldn't be the same, but I thought the way we performed as a unit was the difference, really, between ourselves and maybe teams that have come before.

Q.  Did Danny ask you about that, because he was saying to us that he thought yours were the better unit? 

PETER MCEVOY:   No, Danny hasn't mentioned it at all.  Again it's just one of those things that happens.  Either you get ten people that get together and, you know, they like to be with each other and they pull for each other.  We did do a lot trying to achieve that.  Going to Spain was part of that.  Going up to Hilton Head was part of that.  This group of players, not only were, you know, very accomplished golfers, but they did bond together as a unit remarkably well. 

Q.  A parochial question, I'm afraid.  Can you talk about the two Scottish guys who suffered a very, very heavy dropping in the morning but came back for you in the afternoon and both won.  That was real resilience, wasn't it? 

PETER MCEVOY:   Yeah, it's obviously a worry when you've got a heavy defeat in a foursome; can you bounce back from it.  Mark was still fairly euphoric from his singles victory the day before.  He was fine.  But Steve had just lost his form and Mark was helping out on the practice green before he went out for his second round.  Maybe another example of people helping each other.  Steve got his form back during the match, which is terribly difficult to do at time.  They both showed lots of character in that sense.

Q.  Being on three winning teams, does this mean that you will be known for more than just beating Tiger Woods? 

GARY WOLSTENHOLME:  Hopefully, I'll be remembered for other teams.  I don't talk about it all the time, honestly.  (Laughter.) No, it's something that is in it's place and this will be something else.  It's very special.  I've had a lot of great experiences, particularly with Peter in team things.  So they will all be very special for me in the end.

LUKE DONALD:  I think Peter has always had a lot of confidence in me as a player, and I think he realized I have a lot of confidence in myself.  It was very nice of Peter to put me out top singles and top foursomes.  I was just happy to get two points on the board for him. 

Q.  Just looking ahead, Luke, can you share with us what your plans are as a professional?  Do you know what events you are going to be playing in and if you've got any visits to Europe or Britain planned before the end of the year? 

LUKE DONALD:  At the moment I have two confirmed sponsors exemptions in the U.S.  Reno/Tahoe will be my first and then Air Canada after that.  I'm hoping to get a few more.  I'm going to try Tour School out here and see how that happens, and Europe will be a good possibility in 2002 but we'll have to see.

GARY WOLSTENHOLME:  That's only if he doesn't win the first tournament, of course.  (Laughter.)

Q.  A lot of the conventional wisdom in the past has always indicated GB&I is very good in foursomes and the U.S. better in singles.  In the last two Walker Cups on Sundays, the U.S. has only won one singles match.  Is that conventional wisdom misguided or how would you pinpoint the reason for this kind of effort? 

PETER MCEVOY:   The reason is because our players are better. Now we match the United States players' standard, and actually, right at the moment now I would say maybe at the top end of our list, we are better.  I think it is as simple as that.  You know, it's a talent thing.  It is a talent thing and it is cyclical.  We are much better at preparing our players now.  At the moment, we just happen to have a thick stream of talent.  You know, people get encouraged by that and follow in the wake. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT