U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2000
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LUKE DONALD: Thank you, yeah. I really enjoyed my time here. I'm obviously disappointed
today to lose, getting so far and you really feel like it's just very disappointing. But
I've had a very good week, I've enjoyed myself immensely. Everyone's been so friendly.

Q. How about an overview of today's match, the ebb and flow of it.

LUKE DONALD: Yeah, early on it went back and forth a bit. James won the first with a
par, came back with a couple of birdies on 2 and 3. I think James made a good putt on 9 to
square the match, and then I really gave him the hole on 10. Every time you lose a hole
with a par, you feel disappointed. But all credit to James. He got a great up-and-down on
11 to -- I was already in for 4. And then 13 was I think a big turning point in the match.
Just made a birdie on 12 to get back to even, and then it just was a really poor swing and
hooked into the hazard there. Just gave him another hole. Then I just -- I couldn't find
any birdies out there.

Q. Was your level of play living up to your own expectations today? Were you a little
bit tired or any other thoughts on that?

LUKE DONALD:: I was a little disappointed, especially on the back nine, with how I
played. Bogeyed 10, doubled 13 and one birdie on 11. So I was over par one or even more
over par. You're just not going to win at this stage of the competition. So I struggled
with my distance a little bit with my irons into the greens. I kept coming up short, I'm
not sure why. Usually that's a big strength of mine. I was short on 14. 15, just not very
good swing. 16 was short as well.

Q. Luke, the shot at 13, was it actually in the water?

LUKE DONALD: Yeah, it was in the hazard.

Q. It was in the hazard.

LUKE DONALD: In water. It was underneath the surface. But I -- the only other option I
had really was to go back to the tee, which I could have done, but -- I could have taken
it back on the line, but I would have gone back at least 80 yards because the line where
it crossed and where the pin was went directly along the hazard. So that wasn't really a
viable option either.

Q. Sorry to make you relive painful memories. For those of us who weren't there, could
you talk us through the double bogey?

LUKE DONALD: Yeah, I hooked my tee shot left and it was really a very narrow, small
water hazard.

Q. Six inches wide.

LUKE DONALD: And my ball was in it. Fair enough, I hit a bad shot, I deserved that. I
tried to hit it out, it came out maybe ten yards but it's still in the rough behind the
tree. And I hit a low shot just short of the green, still in rough, chipped over the
green, chipped back and James was already within three. He was maybe four feet away in
three, so I conceded hole.

Q. How long was the birdie putt you made on 12?

LUKE DONALD: I'd say it was probably 18 -- 16, 18 feet.

Q. What impressed you about James' game out there?

LUKE DONALD: He was very solid. He didn't make too many mistakes. He really didn't give
me a hole, you know. He made me work to win a hole out there, and came up with some big
shots. I think chip on 11, you know, I hit it stone dead. And he knew he had to get
up-and-down; he did. 15, he holed that maybe 10, 8-foot putt. It's a big putt to make. 16,
he hits it. I don't know what he hit, 9-, or 8-iron, stone dead. 17, after hitting a poor
tee shot, I'm not sure what happened in the bunker, maybe he tapped it out. He still had
190 to the pin head, shot really solid to the middle of the green. He didn't make any
mistakes, didn't really make any bogeys which gave me holes that way. He played really
solid. He didn't do much wrong.

Q. How about the putt on 10, Luke? Was it three feet it just slid right by the cut?

LUKE DONALD: Mine was probably six or seven feet.

Q. It was longer?

LUKE DONALD: Yeah. It was a pretty easy putt, straight up the hill. I just felt I
pushed it a little bit.

Q. You looked a little dejected after that.

LUKE DONALD: Yeah, James won the 9th after not a very good tee shot. He had a good
approach, holed a long putt, I missed from inside. 10, I just didn't quite hit my tee shot
solid, came up short. And another bogey, you know? Suddenly I'm one-up to one-down,
momentum changed dramatically.

Q. Luke, did you feel tight out there at all? Did you feel the pressure of being so
close to the championship? 

LUKE DONALD: Actually, I probably felt more nervous in yesterday's match than I did
today. But for some reason, I just -- some of my irons coming down the stretch just
weren't getting close enough. I was just giving myself too long of putts to expect to hole
them. At this stage of the game, par was not good enough.

Q. Put this in the context of your career. How disappointed are you to not win this?
Was this really part of your grand plan before you turned pro?

LUKE DONALD: Obviously it would have been extremely nice to win here. I've accomplished
a reasonable amount as an amateur, won the NCAAs, been on a victorious Walker Cup team,
had numerous other career victories. This obviously would have been the pinnacle of my
amateur career. It would have really rounded off a great amateur record for me. And it is
a shame to get so far and just fall at the last hurdle.

Q. This is most likely the last amateur you'll play?

LUKE DONALD: Most likely. At the moment my plans are to perhaps play another Walker Cup
and then turn pro. But I think I'm gonna turn pro next summer some time. So it seems
little point to play an amateur -- another amateur, if I was going to turn pro then
because I wouldn't be able to reap the benefits of what you get for winning this title.

Q. Thank you, and your performance here was top-grade.

LUKE DONALD: Thank you.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT