THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2015
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You must be very pleased. 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, it was a day, again, where the putter was really working, which has been letting me down of late the last few tournaments.   But back on bermudagreens‑‑ and a nice little tip from my coach early on in the week that seems to be working really well. 

Q.   Today tried your patience but successful in the end. 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, a lot of stopping and starting early on, and obviously some tough conditions with some heavy downpours early on made it tough. 
The wind started to pick up a little bit this afternoon, but this is the kind of place that you have to really grind and be patient, and especially with these conditions. 

Q.   You putted the ball extremely well, 245 feet of putts so far.   They calculate these things.   That's a lot. 
LUKE DONALD:   That is a lot.   It's something that's certainly been missing a little bit the last month or two, and it's nice to get back on bermudagreens.   Obviously this is where I practice and play most of my off‑weeks.   I feel a lot more comfortable on these greens for some reason. 
Yeah, obviously today was one of those days where I made some long ones and was really a good, solid putting day and obviously had a lot to do with my score.

Q.   What was tougher, the wind yesterday or the wind and stoppage today? 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, probably caught itself out.   You know, when that rain was coming down very heavy‑‑ it was probably as tough as we've had.   Yesterday the wind was gusting pretty he hard at times, too.   Wet and with a bit of wind in there was very tricky this morning.

Q.   Do you have an advantage now that you're finished? 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, I think so.   A lot of guys will‑‑ the weather doesn't look great tomorrow but if we do get it in, the guys that are teeing off are going to play a lot more holes than me.   I'll obviously get to sleep in, in my own bed, as well, which is nice.   Get some rest and come out fresh tomorrow afternoon. 

Q.   Did you give yourself a pep talk coming off the West Coast Swing?
LUKE DONALD:   Obviously my results were pretty disappointing having missed a few cuts narrowly.   But you know, sometimes the results don't kind of show the progress I was making.   I felt like my game was getting better each week, even though I wasn't scoring particularly well. 
So I wasn't too frustrated with my game because I felt like it was progressing in the right direction.   So again, not really a pep talk.   Just keep continue to work on what I've been working and I felt like some good things were going to happen and obviously the last two days have been very solid. 

Q.   What was the tip you got with your putting? 
LUKE DONALD:   Just sent my coach a couple putting videos and the front and side and he thought I was moving a little bit from my center line and was making the club exit a little too far left.   Just trying to stay a little more centered and next to that club more down the line.

Q.   You have three Top‑10s the last three years.   This seems to be a favorite of yours, this tournament?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, it seems to, for whatever reason, a lot of‑‑ I feel reasonably comfortable around here.   My results are pretty good around here.   I'm not sure what it is about this course, but I'm able to be very patient.   There were some very tough holes for me out here. 
But most of the holes, I just try and be very patient and play them sensibly I suppose.   I know this is a tough scoring course in terms of number that it takes to win, and I think that's probably more my preference rather than somewhere that's 20‑, 25‑under.   I feel like if I can just play my own game, tick off a few birdies here and there, then I'm going to put myself in position.

Q.   Do you get a chance to play here much? 
LUKE DONALD:   No.   I play once or twice leading up to the event.

Q.   Is it surprising for you guysseeing Rory miss the cut? 
LUKE DONALD:   You know, certainly looking at his results and the way he's been playing and how dominant a driver he is the of the golf ball and he's had some past success ear, so it's obviously surprising and I'm sure he'll tell his own story.   But I wouldn't worry and read too much into it.   Rory has been by far the best player in the world for the last year or so. 

Q.   Apart from the disruptions, were scoring conditions pretty good today? 
LUKE DONALD:   There's still a lot of tough holes out there.   I think this wind direction was totally different to yesterday.   It made certain holes a lot harder.   It made certain holes easier.   You know, obviously the wet makes the fairways slightly wider and makes the greens a little bit softer.
But the wind at times was still a club and a half wind out there, so it certainly wasn't easy but probably the last nine holes was certainly easier than the bulk of yesterday with those heavy winds. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT