NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE
December 6, 2014
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on day three?  
LUKE DONALD:   I'm pretty pleased with the score.   I could have played a little bit more solid on the back nine, but to be honest, around this course, I think with a lead, shooting 69, that's kind of what the game plan was, to go out and shoot a low round and keep myself ahead and in position for tomorrow.   I did that thought and felt pretty calm out there, and it was nice to finish with a three.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday you felt in control, which had not happened all that often, and you're still in control?  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, a couple tee shots on the back nine, if I could have hit a few more fairways, I could have been a bit more aggressive on my second shots into some of these holes.   I was very calm out there, very collected and hit the shots that I wanted to, and yeah, again, this is as pleased as I've been with my game for a while.  
   
 Q.   I appreciate the enormous highs you've had in your career anyway, but do you have to remind yourself how to lead a tournament sometimes?   
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, certainly the last year and a half have been very tough.   I haven't really given myself many chances.   I won just over a year ago in Japan, but I really haven't put myself in position very often in that last year.   So I'm excited to be in that position again.   That's why we work hard and that's why we practice so much, and I'm excited for the challenge tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Where is the balance between defense and aggression?   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, again, some of these pin locations are very tough to get to, very sectioned‑off greens here.   Some you can be aggressive and some I think you just have to play it to 20, 25 feet and hope you make a putt for birdie.  
I don't think you really play this course too differently, obviously the last few holes depict a little bit how you play and where you are in terms of the leaderboard but for me I've always sort of had a game plan, play one shot at a time and see where it takes me.  
   
 Q.   South Africans are not happy it's a one, two, three for England at the moment, but that will be nice for a final day, won't it?  
LUKE DONALD:   Didn't we beat them in the rugby just recently, too?   I shouldn't mention that, should I, being here, they will ban me from coming in the country.   Yeah, it will be nice playing with some of my fellow compatriots, and we'll have some fun out there.  
   
 Q.   Didn't see another baboon?  
LUKE DONALD:   No, no baboons today.   Hopefully I don't have to hop, skip and jump out of the way like I did yesterday.  
   
 Q.   You've watched it?  
LUKE DONALD:   I've seen it a few times.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT