ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2014
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts on 4‑under par to start this championship?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   Really solid start.   Anytime you go bogey free it's always a good solid round.   This course isn't that long, but it's two hops, this course, and the Front 9 plays pretty‑‑ today into the wind played tricky. 
But I hit a lot of good solid shots into the wind, and then coming home you have some opportunities if you can keep it in play.   You're hitting a lot of short clubs into some of these greens.
But very happy with my score.   I think certainly it wasn't easy, and to be bogey free was satisfying.

Q.   We're sheltered here, but I take it it's pretty awkward at times out there. 
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   Just examples, the fourth hole, I think, had 170 yards and hit 5‑iron, didn't quite catch it and I was 10 yards short of the pin.   So 160 yards.
And then 8th hole is 148 yards and I hit sand wedge downwind.   So you know, it's strong enough out there to make it interesting and to make it tricky.

Q.   As it's a new course for us, how does it compare to some of the more well‑known links courses?
LUKE DONALD:   I think this is a gem, you know, one of the oldest courses in the world.   It's a little bit of too hot.   Again, the Front 9 is in the dunes, and you know, it's a really well‑done links. 
I think it has a lot of very good holes, you know, a lot of strategy involved, and I think it's up there with some of my favorites.

Q.   You tend to relish the strategy and the Scottish Open, don't you?
LUKE DONALD:   I've done reasonably well around here.   Different courses, Loch Lomond I played well and obviously had a lot of success at Castle Stuart.   This is more of a true links course and it's nice to shoot a good round and hopefully a few more this week, get me some momentum going into the next week.

Q.   Where is the balance between preparation and competition?
LUKE DONALD:   It's still, it's competition, starting Thursday I'm here to try and win this tournament.   I had three weeks off.   That was really the preparation.   So it's nice to see the preparation come in and I shot 67 today.   So all things heading in the right direction.

Q.   And explain the orange shirt. 
LUKE DONALD:   No.   I was actually by accident.   Yeah, he was wearing Argentina blue and I was wearing Holland orange, so I was hoping to bring a smile to his face, but yeah, I don't think it helped.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT