BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2014
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Take some positive thoughts from the week?
LUKE DONALD:   Very positive week.   I know some tough conditions out there this week with some wind and rain and all sorts, but a lot of positives.   Obviously I would love to take that sixth hole back today, as would Thomas, but I was proud of the way I came back and fought back after that to be 5‑under for the last 12. 
Gave it a shot at the last but came up about a couple feet short but happy for Rory.   He's obviously been going through a tough time and it's nice to see him win again.

Q.   Two chip‑ins on the back nine, you might have thought there was destiny on your side. 
LUKE DONALD:   I had some good support behind me and I tried my hardest to headache it‑‑ at least give myself a chance.   It was fun to hole a couple shots in front of these crowds.   They have been wonderful all week, and it's just a pleasure to play in front of them.

Q.   You mentioned the man that won, and I know you'll have an appreciation that it's been some performance, isn't it. 
LUKE DONALD:   For Rory, yes, indeed.   Obviously we all know what he's been going through, and you know, sometimes making those tough decisions maybe takes a weight off your mind in a way and he can engulf himself in the golf and obviously played very well.   I played with him yesterday and looked like he was swinging well. 
He's been knocking on the door a little bit the last few months, and golf's a funny game.   He's at a place where he can't even make the cut usually the last few years, but he goes on to win it.   That's the beauty about this game.

Q.   Onwards and upwards for you? 
LUKE DONALD:   Onwards and upwards, yeah.   Looking forward to the U.S. Open and the form that I'm bringing to it. 

Q.   We can see the passion in your eyes and we can see what this tournament means to you.   Just tell us, put into words, how much it does mean to you?
LUKE DONALD:   It means a lot.   This is The European Tour's biggest event and I've had a lot of success here.   That's why we practise hard is to get in these situations to try and win tournaments.   It's fun coming down the stretch playing in the last group, and I knew I had to make some birdies and I did.   I gave myself a good chance.   Rory obviously finished it off nicely with a couple birdies on 17 and 18, but you know, proud of the way I came back after that disastrous 7 on the sixth hole. 

Q.   Were you checking the leaderboards throughout the round? 
LUKE DONALD:   Especially after that triple, I kind of wanted to see what I needed to do, and you know, happy with the way I persevered, and 5‑under for the last 12 was very good. 

Q.   How much do you take from this tournament heading into the rest of the season?
LUKE DONALD:   A lot of positives.   I think, as I said, I think this year, the game is starting to trend in the right direction.   Last year was not a great year for me but been through some changes and those changes are starting to bed in and take place.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT