RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2014
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Considering the conditions out there, I thought you played well under tough conditions.   
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, you know, this course you've got to keep it in play and kind of plot your way around this golf course.   I've had some success here the last few years.   Small greens, I hit 15 greens today.   If I got a little hotter with the putter, it could have been really special.  
But still a very solid round.   I'm glad I'm done.   It looks like the weather is only getting worse.   
   
 Q.   I followed you the last two days, and I thought the back nine yesterday you started hitting it really well.   
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, front nine yesterday was okay.   It just was lacking a bit of mojo.   And then I had a couple of birdies on 12 and 13, and it kind of got me going.  
Yeah, I feel like I'm hitting a decent amount of fairways and greens.   In this place it's very good.  
   
 Q.   You've come so close here.   One of these years is going to be your year.   
LUKE DONALD:   It's a good course for me.   It's not a course you can overpower.   It lowers wedges.   If you miss greens, you have to be pretty proficient on the greens.   It's a good course for me.   That's why I love coming here.  
   
 Q.   Lastly, the MVP, your wife, following you every step of the way regardless of the weather.   She's a trouper.   
LUKE DONALD:   Pretty good, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How nice is it to be in?   Heavy weather came the last hole.   
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, we had a little rain on 4 and 5, umbrellas were up.   But similar conditions to yesterday, really.   It looks like the afternoon guys are going to get pretty wet.   It's nice to get that good draw sometimes.   Usually it evens itself out over the course of a year.   But it looks like I'm on the right side of the draw this week.  
   
 Q.   Got to be happy with where you are.   You got under before most of the rain.   Can you talk about where you are in this tournament.   
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, obviously it's playing tough.   The weather is difficult this year.   1 or 2 club wind out there.   And it's hard to judge sometimes in amongst the trees.   But excited about some of the good ball‑striking I've had.   I hit 15 greens today and that's good, solid golf in these conditions.  
   
 Q.   With the different conditions, the left‑to‑right, a much different course.   Was it fun for you or did you enjoy a break from hitting 300‑yard holes?  
LUKE DONALD:   For me, absolutely.   That's why I've done well out here.   You just sort of position yourself around this course and manage your game.   Try to hit greens.   You have lower wedges into some of these holes.   It's a good course for me and my results have certainly showed that in the last few years.  
   
 Q.   You've been working on some changes for the past few months, is this evidence of it all coming together or has that evidence been here all along?  
LUKE DONALD:   I think it's been there the last few months.   I had a good finish at Tampa, played pretty solid at Honda.   Even last week at Augusta, only two or three holes that really undid me.   Decent ball‑striking.   I feel like I'm hitting more fairways and more greens.   Hopefully it's trending in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you've been the kind of patient guy you wanted to be?  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, my coach is really pleased with how far I've progressed in a reasonably short period of time.   Obviously being a golfer and having the former No.1, you don't like to slip down the rankings, and you get impatient.   But certainly I feel like I've made a lot of the changes in a reasonably short period of time.   I still have a little ways to go.   I think that's where I get in trouble is just having a bit too many conscious thoughts sometimes out there.   Every week it gets better and better.  
   
 Q.   What feels best about what you've changed?  
LUKE DONALD:   It should be just a little bit better trajectory on some of these shots.   Before I attempted to hit the ball a little bit more with my hands, and now I'm trying to hit it more with my body.   And I can squeeze it a little bit more and create that better trajectory.   
   
 Q.   Can you take us through a couple of shots that were key for you today.   You played some consistent golf for the first two days.   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, on 12 today, my third hole, I actually got out of position.   I was on the green, used a wedge to chip across the fringe and got up and down.   And if I had made bogey there to go back to even par it might have been a little momentum killer.   
Just little things like that was good.   And I played the tough holes really well, gave myself good looks for birdies on 14 and 18.   Those two holes are playing very tough out there.   It was good to keep the momentum going.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT