VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2014
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     A bogey-free 67 today.   Just give me your thoughts on this round now that it's concluded.
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   A lot better.   Yesterday I wasn't really happy with my ball striking.   The first day was tough with the wind.   Yesterday I only hit 9 greens.   On a course like this you're going to struggle. 
I went to the range yesterday, figured out a few things and a lot better today.   I hit 14 greens, couple fringes and made this course a little bit easier than yesterday for sure.

Q.   As a former champion and with another Top-10 as well in this event you know what takes to this win this thing.   Did you put yourself in position with what you did?
LUKE DONALD:   Right now I feel like I'm in good position.   We'll have to see what the guys do.   Obviously it's a perfect day today, not much wind.   If the lead is -- especially the guys out front play well, then still going to have a lot of catching up to do.
I think the forecast is for some more wind tomorrow.   That's always good for someone who is trying to catch you.

Q.   Luke, what was different about today versus the first two days?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   Caddy John and I did some good work on the range after the round yesterday.   I certainly wasn't very happy the way I hit the ball yesterday, you know, missing it both ways and figured out too active in my legs, and worked it out yesterday and came out today and played a lot more solid round.   Hit more fairways and greens.   Made it a little bit easier.

Q.   Before you went out there did you happen to see a couple scores, Retief putting a nice number on the board and did you think conditions were right for a low score?
LUKE DONALD:   I actually tried not to look at the board.   I've played here enough times and seeing the scores over the last couple days I knew a good round would shoot me up the board so just try to play my own game and post something lowish to get me back into contention. 

Q.   Looking ahead, obviously, you're not going to know what the number is right now but put down the pedal a little bit further?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   Again, this course demands a little bit of -- got to be a little bit careful.   It's a tricky golf course but certainly another round like today and we'll see what happens.

Q.   Luke, was it is just a minor adjustment on the range yesterday or was it --
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   It's always pretty minor but certainly wasn't very happy with the way I hit it.   Felt like I was missing it both ways, which is tough.   You miss it one way you can kind of get your way around the golf course, but just took a couple videos and looked at a couple things, just felt like I was getting a little bit active in my legs, which is a problem, comes back often for me, and today was a lot better, just seemed to simplify it, pick the targets, not look at leaderboards, kind of play my own game and it's a good score.

Q.   By the time you left the range yesterday, were you feeling a bit better about yourself?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   I think -- I never thought I was very far off, just the way I've been playing last few weeks, 4th in greens in regulation at Doral, stuff like that which gives you confidence that you're never going to be too far away. 
But, around a course like this you need to hit fairways and greens and kind of make it easier on yourself because it's tricky if you start missing fairways and greens.

Q.   Four birdies though, no bogies.   You must be happy with that.
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   As I said, I played kind of a Luke Donald round.   I just kind of hit fairways and hit greens and took advantage of some of the par-5s and, you know, was a tidy round of golf.   Kind of what you need around this place. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT