VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2014
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A battle out there today.   There was some wind, there was some cold.   How did you find the conditions?  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, very tough, as you said.   I think we knew the forecast was for some winds and cold temperatures today and it was correct, it was tough, it was a battle out there.   This course isn't easy in good conditions.  
So, pretty pleased with the way I played, obviously, and a bit of a stupid double on 6 coming in.   Other than that, you know, lot of good, solid shots.  
   
 Q.   Coming in on your first 9, you had three birdies in four holes including birdieing 17, 18.   What did you do well there down the stretch of the first 9?  
LUKE DONALD:   Obviously, 17, hit a pure 3-iron to three, four feet.   Made a putt for a 2.   And 18, I had a little bit of a bonus.   I hit it just right of the green and chipped in.   Anytime you can play those last few holes under par you're going to gain quite a few strokes on the field.  
   
 Q.   It was a battle out there.   You finished even par.   Thank you.   
How happy are you?  
LUKE DONALD:   I think I probably would have taken even par to start the day.   Obviously got to a couple under and made a little bit of a mess at 6 but, you know, it was tricky out there.   
Me and my caddy, John, struggled on the few holes to pull the right club.   The wind was really affecting some of the shots pretty hard so it was tough and this course is tough even in good conditions.   It was a good battle out there today.  
   
 Q.   What's the most difficult thing you have to deal with when it's cold, when it's windy, how do you adjust, how do you stay patient?  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah.   Just as I said, picking the right clubs, figuring out how much that wind is going to hit it.   On 12 I hit a pure shot, thought the wind was going to hit it and went over the green.   
On 2, I hit one and it caught the wind.   So, you know, it's all about controlling that trajectory.   For the most part, I did that well today.   It got me a couple times.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT