THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2014
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bogey‑free including three pars in the Bear Trap, how is it to leave 15, 16 and 17 with three pars?   
LUKE DONALD:   I think especially today, the direction of the wind, coupled with the pin locations, I think it played toughest today than any of the other days, just because of the direction that the wind was blowing.   It was very awkward on all three holes.   
   
 Q.   Given the conditions, bogey‑free round, you have to be pleased with how you managed the golf course today?  
LUKE DONALD:   I did, and I think that was a good word.   I think you really did have to manage today.   Just slightly different wind direction and where the pins were set, made it very hard to be aggressive out there.   I had to play away from pins quite often and because of that I left myself longer putts for birdie and didn't make as many.   But stay away from the big numbers, which hurt me the first couple days, so really pleased the way I sort of navigated my way around the golf course.  
   
 Q.   You'll be probably just a few back tomorrow; do you think you have that round in you to go catch somebody?  
LUKE DONALD:   Absolutely.   We'll see how it goes the front nine, I may have to be a little more aggressive on the back which is tough to do around here.   I think it's forecast to be a similar kind of day, reasonably breezy, and obviously a great round will separate me.   
   
 Q.   How did the wind change the course out there?   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, it's a different direction.   Made a lot of holes and certainly where the pin locations were, the pins were on right sides where the wind was right‑to‑left and vice versa and made it tough to attack this golf course.   The wind picked up throughout the afternoon, and made it, again, tough to really go at some of these pins.   So I had to play a little bit more conservative today.   Hence, a little bit less birdies out there, but certainly minimize the mistakes, which was nice; to go bogey‑free today on a reasonably windy day was satisfying.   
   
 Q.   Can you play that same way tomorrow knowing you probably have got to go pretty low?   
LUKE DONALD:   Well, we'll see what the wind direction is and where they set the pins.   But we'll see how I play the front nine and then I'll sort of determine how aggressive I need to be.   But my usual theory is that, to, play smart and give myself looks on the greens and make my‑‑ let my putter make some birdies.   
   
 Q.   Kind of a home course, do you feel good being able to play this course well, knowing that it's right next door?  
LUKE DONALD:   I don't know if it's a home course; I don't play here very often, but certainly live close by, and it's nice to sleep in your own bed and all that that goes along with that.   
Certainly adds decent success here, I had a chance to win a few years back, a Top‑10 a couple years ago, and it's a course that I feel reasonably comfortable.  
   
 Q.   You haven't played much in the past few months, are you starting to see some signs that the game is getting to a point where you like it?  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, it's certainly getting better.   My schedule isn't much different to previous years.   I missed L.A. and added this one.   I felt like I needed a little bit of time to work on some of these changes I've been trying to input, and starting to see it.   First two rounds, making 13 birdies around this golf course, things are certainly improving.   I made five twos I think on the par3s this week.   Just all points to my iron play getting stronger.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel like the progress of the swing changes are going?   
LUKE DONALD:   It's moving in the right direction.   Certainly every week it gets better and better, and feeling more and more solid.   I'm getting to a point where I'm having to think a lot less about it.   Obviously that's what you want when you're playing competitive golf.   
   
 Q.   Was it a hard move to try to move to, or was it pretty easy as far as the mechanics of it?   
LUKE DONALD:   It was different.   You know, it was decent changes.   I feel like in the short period of time I picked it up pretty quickly.   Chuck probably can answer that question better than me, but certainly some decent changes and feeling a lot more comfortable now.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT