DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2013
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fabulous four‑birdie finish to your round, what was the secret to that?   
LUKE DONALD:   What was the secret?   I suppose staying patient.   I didn't play particularly great on the front nine.   I got a little bit of momentum switched my way when I chipped in from the back edge on 9.   But it was not much happening on that first nine, and just tried to stay patient.   
I knew I felt pretty comfortable on the greens.   Just had to give myself some more opportunities and gave myself plenty on the last few holes.  
   
 Q.   Good results here in the past; what is it about this course, this place?  
LUKE DONALD:   Well, it is a long golf course, but I think there's quite a lot of strategy involved.   The greens are undulating and the pins are tricky; you really have to think your way around here.   
Even the par 5s, reachable foremost people, sometimes it's better to lay‑up and hit a wedge like I did on 18.   I haven't played the par 5s particularly well this week, but usually you can get a lot of wedge shots around here and if you're smart, you can make some birdies.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the finish, that's some luster on what otherwise was a modest day I guess.   
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, it would be nice if I could keep walking to the first and keep going.   Always nice to finish with four in a row, and really turned around a pretty mediocre round.   
Through the front nine not much was happening, but it is a course that does offer some opportunities and I was able to stay patient and I was able to give myself plenty down the stretch, and took advantage of them.   
   
 Q.   Presumably a little bit of frustration, annoyance and got to make something out at the end?   
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, swing didn't feel as comfortable today, especially that front nine.   Felt better on the back nine.   But we all know how golf is.   It changes each day, but it's nice to grind out a score, even though I didn't quite feel as comfortable over the ball.  
   
 Q.   Have you allowed yourself to look at the board?   You're not that far adrift?  
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, I saw it on 18, three back right now.   See how the guys come in; hopefully they don't finish like I did.   If I stay within four or five, a Justin Rose round tomorrow, and you never know what will happen.  
   
 Q.   Absolutely, he shot that 62, didn't he, and suddenly he was seeing off the other challengers for a while, at least.   Do you fancy that's in there?   
LUKE DONALD:   If you're feeling good about your game, the greens are so good that you can make a lot of putts out here.   You know, I think it's a course that history has shown that it gives up a lot of birdies, so hopefully I'll be the one taking them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT