U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2013
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LUKE DONALD:   Got a little bit of a switch in wind in mid round, and it got rainy and it was difficult.   I didn't control my ball flight well enough over the first few holes and got off to a very slow start.   And that was it pretty much.

Q.   You hit the girl on No. 3 with your drive.   Can you describe what happened there, and then afterwards?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, I hit driver on the third hole and pulled it left and didn't realize there was anyone over there.   And when I got there, one of the load scorers, holding the scoreboard, I hit her in the elbow.   And she was in some pain and felt a little bit faint, and I felt a little bit faint, too, watching it.   Unfortunately you never like that to happen, and it was a very tough break for her.

Q.   You embraced Justin on the green.   A lot of emotion out there.   Just talk about your thoughts for Justin?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think Justin for the last few years has been known as one of the best ball strikers in the game.   He showed that today.
To win a U.S. Open, you have to have ultimate control of your golf ball.   He did that.   He hit some really clutch iron shots down the stretch, just a pure iron into 15. 
16, he had a good shot and was kind of lucky. 
And 17 and 18, hitting the shots that he wanted to hit.   And that's what you want to do in this game.   I'm sure it's going to be emotional for him.   He obviously lost his father a few years ago, and I'm sure that little sign up to the sky was for his dad. 
I'm very happy for him.   Justin is a good friend of mine and it's good to see him come out on top.

Q.   Hopefully.   It's not over yet.   It's getting close. 
LUKE DONALD:   I don't know what's happening. 

Q.   He was saying the other day that he was really inspired by Adam's win at Augusta and he considers himself a contemporary.   It shows that years of experience on top of all the hard work and just the innate ability you guys have, that you should be able to win one of these.   Do you sort of feel that same way yourself?
LUKE DONALD:   I do.   I come away with some positive feelings.   I got in position in a U.S. Open.   I haven't really done that in my career.   So there's definitely positives. 
I know what I need to work on.   I need to continue to get better in my ball‑striking and control that trajectory and that line. 
I think Adam and Justin have similar games.   They're very good tee‑to‑green.   Occasionally their Achilles heel is the short game and the putting.   Sometimes great ball‑striking can trump that, even at a U.S. Open. 

Q.   How long did (inaudible.)
LUKE DONALD:   I think pretty quickly.   I felt pretty bad at the time.   But it was business as usual in the fourth.   Obviously I played that stretch pretty poorly.   But I don't really use that as an excuse.

Q.   What is it going to mean to the country if he wins a Major?
LUKE DONALD:   It's going to mean a lot.   It's been too long, really.   I think we've had a lot of talent come out of England and hopefully we've broken our bad period.   This will be a great week for Justin and for England. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT