BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2013
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How cold is it? 
LUKE DONALD:   Quite chilly, even for England, this is pretty unseasonable.   Can yeah, made this course play tougher.   I think the last couple years, it's been very warm; ball's travelled a lot.   I'm hitting a lot longer irons into some of these holes this year because of the weather, so, you know, it was less favourable, but bottom line is I didn't play very well, 9‑over through 21 holes is pretty terrible golf really. 
I don't think it's a million miles away though.   Sometimes these things are a lot closer than you think.   Got some good time coming up with my coach back home and we'll work on it and get ready for next week in the U.S. Open.

Q.   What are the main problems at the moment? 
LUKE DONALD:   It was a bit of everything the last two days really.   You know, when I missed fairways, I missed the green, I wasn't getting up‑and‑down.   It was just problems are kind of compounding.   Not one part of my game is really firing at the moment.   Because of that, you're going to struggle. 

Q.   Does it kind of polarise the frustration when you've come here obviously having won it the previous two years?
LUKE DONALD:   Yes and no.   I do think this is a bit of a different animal the last‑‑ today and yesterday, than the last couple years. 
But certainly as I say, I don't think I'm too far away.   You know, made five birdies today.   So it's not like it's a million miles away.   It's doing the things that Luke Donald usually does well; be tidy around the green, make those putts when I need to.   I've got to start there and work my way back. 

Q.   Is it a case of patience now? 
LUKE DONALD:   I think so.   You know, again, sometimes it's just a little something small from my coach that will get me on track. 
So again, I'm not too worried.   Never nice; disappointing to miss a cut, especially here at Wentworth, a place I've played well.   But you know, I'll be back.   I think failure is a much bigger motivator for me than successes. 

Q.   Will you go to Merion? 
LUKE DONALD:   I'll go the week after Memorial. 

Q.   Is this going to change your travel plans back to the States?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I'm traveling with my family.   Right now we are planning on going back Monday but if I can go a little bit earlier, I will.   Finding five seats together is sometimes tough but we'll give it our best shot.

Q.   Are you back in Europe before The Open? 
LUKE DONALD:   Playing the French.   I'll be back for that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT