MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Luke Donald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LUKE DONALD:   Very frustrating round.   I felt like I played a lot better than 3‑over par today.   The course was definitely playing tougher.   The greens were firmer and quite a bit faster.   There was a lot of shots out there that I was staring down and they came up a foot short and ended up walking off with a bogey instead of having a chance for birdie, and it was kind of one of those days where a lot of near misses. 

Q.   Frustrating because you said before this is a tournament you thought you were set up to win and today was a day to make the move?
LUKE DONALD:   Yeah, the leaders certainly aren't going too far at the moment.   I think 6‑ or 7‑under is leading.   I felt like I could post something like 70, 68, 69, something around that, really be in with a great position, it's kind of taunting you that they're only six or seven shots ahead.   At a PGA Tour event you still feel very much in the tournament, but around here it's probably a little bit harder to make up shots. 
Yeah, it's a little frustrating that I wasn't able to shoot something better today because I certainly played better than my score. 

Q.   You had that Open Championship in '03 when you kind of burst on and played the first two rounds with Sergio and Tiger at Royal St.George's.   Can you empathize with what young Guan is going through in his first major championship?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, I think it's a tremendous accomplishment obviously to be here, and I think he's lapping it up and enjoying it.   I mean, obviously for a 14 year old to make the cut, I didn't even‑‑ I couldn't even do that in my dreams I don't think.   Amazing what he's done.   I'm not sure what he shot today, but good on him for being out here and doing as well as he's done. 

Q.   A little bit off topic, but the whole Tiger/drop/penalty shot thing, what's your feeling on people literally being able to call from home to report stuff that they see?   Any thoughts on that? 
LUKE DONALD:   It's different.   I mean, obviously that doesn't happen in other sports.   Our sport is a sport that there's quite a lot of time between shots.   In basketball, American football, everything happens so quickly, and everything is controlled by the referees.   Our sport is a little different.   People have that ability to call in.   I'm not sure whether I'm for it or against it, but I guess that's why they brought that other rule out for situations where people do call in. 

Q.   And then, too, when you get a score that's changed the next day, sort of a retroactive decision, is that just part of golf that you guys accept?   Is that something that's tough to swallow do you think when you're done on Friday and you wake up Saturday and there's two more shots added to your score?
LUKE DONALD:   Well, in previous years you would be not playing.   I think you've got to think that you're still around having a chance is a positive. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT