NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v RED WINGS
May 17, 2009
Dan Cleary
Nicklas Lidstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Nicklas Lidstrom and Dan Cleary.   
  
  Q. Dan, looking back, what do you think it was about your situation and the Red Wings where your career kind of took off over here?   
 DAN CLEARY: Well, it's been, you know, a great ride for me so far. Ever since I've been here, my role has expanded, my responsibility's got more and more each year. Just trying to expand on my role. I came here on a tryout. They gave me a chance to be a player. I just tried to work hard and be a good player for us.   
  
  Q. Nick, you guys held Patrick Kane without a shot tonight. Can you just talk about what you were able to do against him on that line.   
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: Well, I thought we had some good backside pressure where the defensemen can stand up at the blueline or right inside our blueline, when the forwards are coming back and back-checking hard. That makes our job a little easier. Trying to deflect them and push them on the outside.   
 They're good hockey players. They're good at hanging on to the puck, waiting for teammates to come late. Their D are active.   
 I think the players out there against, especially that lineup, I thought they did a real good job defensively.   
  
  Q. Dan, Johan said the reason your line is so successful is the skill you have. Can you talk about what you've been able to do so far in the playoffs scoring-wise.   
 DAN CLEARY: Well, I mean, you know, Franzen has been unbelievable this playoff, as has Z. You know, my role is just to kind of provide a good forecheck, go to the net, stay there.   
 We've matched up against the other team's top line, and Z has done a real good job, he's so good defensively. He's hard to contain offensively. You know, really as a line, we just try to make sure we shoot the puck, skate, be good on both ends.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the job you did against Seabrook and Keith.   
 DAN CLEARY: Yeah, I mean, they've really been great this playoff. You know, we went into it making sure we got it behind them, forced them to play defense, tried to be physical on them.   
 But they're two good players. You know, they're physical. Seabrook is physical. Keith is a great skater. You got to make sure you pick him up when he's coming up ice and have your head on a swivel with him.   
  
  Q. Talk about getting off to quick start, Nick. You had a similar young team in the Cup Finals last year. You got off to a great start against them. Is that important as well not to give them confidence, given their lack of experience?   
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: Yeah, I think it gives us confidence, too, when you're coming off to a good start. I thought they came out with a really good pace, good tempo in the first five minutes. I thought once we got our legs going, we started playing better, controlling the game a little bit more, hanging on to the puck in their zone, using the whole offensive zone to our advantage, trying to use the D as well. I thought once the game got going, I thought we started to feel a lot more comfortable.   
 So to get that first win, it's always important. Our coach keeps telling us it's a race to four; you got to win four games. It's important to get that first win.   
  
  Q. Dan, talk a little more on the run you've been on the last 60-plus minutes of hockey. What do you attribute it to?   
 DAN CLEARY: Playing on a good line. Z's ability to find players, create offensively, we always believe good defense leads to offense. We try to back-check hard and create turnovers. You know, he made the play on the winning goal against Anaheim. He made great plays tonight, along with Franzen.   
 Really our game plan doesn't deviate with who we're playing. We try to have good speed, just be smart with the puck.   
  
  Q. Dan, I appreciate you've talked about this in the past, but four years ago you weren't sure where your hockey future was lying. Do you think back now, how close were you that you think this might have been over, playing in the NHL? Also I wanted to ask you about the fact against Chicago you have a two-goal game in the playoffs.   
 DAN CLEARY: It's been pretty documented, a lot really, the story. But looking back on it, I mean, I was real close. It was right there. If I didn't make Detroit, I don't know where I would have been. But I tried to work hard and focus on making the team. Each year, like I said, my role has gotten more and more, ice time has increased, my responsibility. I just try to be good away from the puck defensively, and that's the way I was needed to be in offensive situations.   
 Against Chicago, I got drafted '97, you know, Dale Tallon is the GM now, he's a scout there. I remember him from when they brought me in like when I was a young player. It's nice. I wasn't in Chicago very long, so no hard feelings. But it's always nice to score against a team that drafted you.   
  
  Q. Nick, talk about Dan's play. The goal that kind of got you guys out of the funk or whatever it was early on, just kind of the run he's been on, what that means for you guys.  
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: I think he's been playing real well for us. I think that whole line with him, Franzen and Zetterberg are tough to play against. They play real well in their own zone. I play behind him most of the time. They're real responsible players defensively, all three of them. When they have the puck, they're able to use their speed through the neutral zone. They can hang onto it down low and they can take it to the net. That's how Cleary scored the second goal, by going hard to the net and deflecting it. Same thing on the first one, just taking it hard and wide and getting a great shot off.   
 But just the way they're playing together, they're tough to hang onto in the offensive zone for the defenders. They're so good at protecting the puck and taking it to the net. I think that's one of the most important things that they do so well, is take the puck hard to the net.   
  
  Q. Dan, is this as good as you've ever felt, confidence-wise, from a goal-scoring standpoint?   
 DAN CLEARY: Yeah, you know, it's always nice to score. It gives you confidence. You feel like you can skate, you know, forever out there.   
 But at the same time, you know, for me really I want to be good defensively. And we feel as a line, as a team, defense wins. Play good defense, creates offense, you know, turnovers, things like that.   
 But it's been fun. I mean, there's nothing like scoring in the playoffs (smiling).   
  
  Q. How much do you attribute that to the line? You talk about the line you're on. The scoring chances, more of a defensive role than last year in the third line. Is it something you always thought you kind of had in you here but now more opportunities?   
 DAN CLEARY: Yeah, I mean, last year on the run, I played a lot with Dally and Drapes defensively. This year Babs just wanted me to be more offensive and maybe move up in the line. Really, the line I'm playing on, I'm playing with two grade A players. We get Nick and Raf back there who can make passes that a lot of people can't make and defend so well. As a group of five, you know, it helps us a lot, both ends of the rink. Very fortunate to be able to play on that kind of line.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT