NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 15, 2009
Nicklas Lidstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   DAVID KEON: Good afternoon. I'm David Keon of the National Hockey League's Public Relations Department, and I'd like to welcome you to our call.
 We have with us Detroit Red Wings captain Nick Lidstrom. Thanks to Nick for taking the time to join us and answer your questions, and thanks to John Hahn of the Wings' public relations department for arranging call.
 On Sunday afternoon at 3:00 p.m. eastern, Nick will lead his Red Wing teammates as they open the western conference final at Joe Louis Arena when they meet the Chicago Blackhawks on NBC, TSN, and RDS.
 Last night the Red Wings defeated the Anaheim Ducks 4?3 on home ice in Game 7 of the conference semifinal. The first round, Detroit defeated the Columbus Blue Jackets in four straight.
 Playing in all 11 games, Nick has posted 11 points on three goals and eight assists, totals that lead all defenseman in the playoffs this season. He also leads the Red Wings in ice time, averaging over 26 minutes a game.
 Operator, we'll open it up to questions.

 Q. Nick, how different is it, if it is at all, going from playoff?tested team like the Ducks to a team like the Blackhawks who are here for the first time in a lot of years?
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: The Blackhawks are very excited about being in the conference finals. Two strong teams in the first two rounds, so we know they're feeling confident and feeling good about themselves.
 Facing Anaheim, they had a veteran team that they wouldn't break as a team. They just kept going after us. Being up 3?2, and last night too when the score was ?? we were up a couple goals they just kept coming after us.
 So a little different look to the team, but I think at the Blackhawks, they are a young and a hungry team.

 Q. Just wondering, I'm not sure how much you look around and watch the other series while you're playing, but it seems like if you got the story lines like the Staal brothers playing in the east and the young Blackhawks and you guys the defending champs, do you get a sense this has been a pretty exciting playoff year for the NHL overall?
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: I think it has been. I watched not all the series, but some of the games. I think there's been some great games, some great series, too.
 Last night, we were playing in a Game 7; Boston/Carolina going into overtime in a Game 7; The other night Ovechkin and Crosby were going at each other.
 So I think overall the playoffs has been a success for the league. Especially not the top teams winning all the time. We had Anaheim beating out of the President's Trophy winners and the Sharks.
 So you can see that it's not that big of a difference from being seeded No. 1 or 8, and I think this shows that the league is very even right now.

 Q. Well, one top team kept winning. It's yours.
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: We've been able to find ways to win, and it's been fun. But I think if you look, especially in our division, I think teams have closed in. Now we have the Blackhawks and we're playing them in the conference finals.
 But look at other teams that made the playoffs in our division and weren't in the playoffs last year. I think you see teams just getting better and better. I think that's where you see the line closing from the top line to the No. 8 team.
 We've seen that in our division as well with the teams there that made the playoffs this year.

 Q. You guys pretty much had your way with the Blackhawks in the game at Wrigley Field on New Year's day. Could you talk about what you've seen out of the Hawks since then, and whether you've seen some maturity and growth from that point to now?
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: I think they've been improving as a team as the season went along. We've had some great battles with them this season, as well. That Wrigley Field game was a great experience I believe for both teams being able to play outdoors and just the setup we had.
 I think they have gained confidence, and I think their better players have been their young players. When you have the goalie play the way he's been playing in the playoffs, it gives the whole team confidence. I think I see their team just making strides as the season went on and just getting better and better and really playing well now when they're in the playoffs.

 Q. Given the fact that a lot of guys are saying the series with Anaheim was possibly the toughest of their careers, how does a veteran team like yourselves go about preparing for a young, speedy team like the Blackhawks who are coming off a couple day's more rest?
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: Well, first of all, you're excited about going to the conference finals and you're only one step away from playing in the Stanley Cup finals. That in itself brings the excitement back in our team, too.
 When you play a good, young team, and a fast team in the Blackhawks, you know you have to be prepared. So you have to get your emotions under control again after a big win last night and prepare for a tough series again.
 I think having the experience that we have on our team, I think we're able to put the last night's win and last series behind us and get ready for another tough one. I think this is gonna be a tough one, too.

 Q. This question is about Detroit. You've been a part of this team for 18 years , been in the city for that long. Given what's going on economically in Detroit and Michigan in general, what do you think this deep playoff run means to this city? What have you been noticing around town?
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: I think we bring a lot happiness to people that are hitting some tough times. We even saw that last year winning the Stanley Cup, that people that showed up at the parade, for an example, and were supporting us and coming to the games.
 This playoffs have been the same way. People are really showing their support. It's been a hard couple years here in Michigan, and it hasn't really been getting any better. I think we bring some happiness. Maybe people can kind of put that aside and watch the Wings play, and we can bring some excitement back for the fans.

 Q. Can you just talk a little bit about the challenges going up against players like Toews and Kane. Is the approach much different, as opposed to going up against Anaheim's big, physical first line there?
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: I think you're gonna see a little bit different style. The line we've been facing in the previous series here with Getzlaf at center, they're big guys good at hanging onto the puck down low and kinda grinding it out and trying to tire us out a little bit.
 Whereas the young Blackhawks have the speed, great speed, and they're very skilled players. I think they're gonna come at us with a lot more speed and try to score off the rush. I think that's the big difference. Anaheim wanted to play that kinda grind?style, get the puck in behind us and kinda grind it out more than the speedy Blackhawks will.

 Q. I know you guys won the first four games that you played against them this season. Can you talk specifically about the last two games of the year? Did losing back?to?back games to this team at the end of the season, was that maybe a little bit of a ?? did you take notice of them maybe a little bit more, and how do you think that applies heading into this series?
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: I don't think it's going to apply that much to what happened in the regular season. I think us as a team, we're gonna look back at what we did well against Anaheim and in the first round against Columbus.
 We have respect for the Blackhawks. We know their team fairly well, we know their players, and we know the style they're playing. The last couple games, of course you want to win them and going into the playoffs and feeling good about yourself.
 On the other hand, we were resting a couple guys here and there just to get ready for the playoffs. Having said that, I think we're more focused on the way we've been playing in the last, you know, six weeks or so than what happened in the last couple games of the regular season.

 Q. I'm just curious, speaking about the Hawks' youth and enthusiasm and not having been here this deep in the playoffs for quite sometime, is that something you guys guard against, or can you take advantage of it?
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: You know, I think they're gonna ?? they're obviously feeling good about themselves, about being here, being hungry and excited about getting a chance to play in the conference finals. That's something we have to respect coming in.
 Having played last night, we have to get ready for a new series starting on Sunday. We have respect for them. They've earned the conference finals. They've been playing well. They've beaten out some teams with experience.
 So you have to look at what they've done so far in the playoffs to get ready.

 Q. Can you just talk about ? Kane and Toews get so much attention ? but Martin Havlat, the kind of problems he presents, and also a young guy like Patrick Sharp. He's been tough for you guys to play against at times. Just the depth that Chicago has.
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: Yeah, I think they have a lot of depth, just like we do. Havlat, even though he's had some injuries over the years, he's got that great speed and he's good at protecting the puck.
 There are some similarities to the way Hossa plays with that burst of speed he has and being able to protect the puck.
 Sharp has been playing real well against us. He's another skilled guy who has a knack for finding open areas and get a quick shot off. I know he plays well on the power play, too. Those are two players we have to be aware of, together with the young kids. Their depth is something we have to know about, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT