NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 22, 2011
Nicklas Lidstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. You trail Harvey for 8 Norris trophies, is it a bit surreal to win your seventh? 
 NICKLAS LINDSTROM: It is surreal, having reached seven Norris' especially at this stage of my career having played for 20 years and reached the age of 40 so I'm proud to still be able to play at this level and win another one. 

 Q. It's supposed to be as you say, the young man's game, did you go in thinking you would win this year? 
 NICKLAS LINDSTROM: No, I thought both Chara and Weber had great seasons, I thought either one of those were going to win, so I think that's why it's more special to win one.

 Q. Can you win one more? 
 NICKLAS LINDSTROM: It gives me motivation to get ready for next season having won another Norris, winning it helps going through the off-season workouts when you have that in the bag. 

 Q. It was a tight race, the votes were close. 
 NICKLAS LINDSTROM: I haven't seen the votes, I don't know --

 Q. Very close. 
 NICKLAS LINDSTROM: Yeah, that's -- I thought -- like I said, I thought both the other guys had a strong season. I thought it was going to be a close race. Felt like it could have been anyones trophy, really.

 Q. How do you think you were able to rebound this season from the season you had before and what was the difference? 
 NICKLAS LINDSTROM: I think my mind-set is of not being satisfied with the way I played two years ago. 
 I wanted to come out and have a stronger season and prove just to myself that I can still play at a high level and be one of the go-to guys on the team and be a guy that you rely on to play a lot of minutes and play against top lines. 
 That was my own goals, to play a lot better than I did the previous seasons. 

 Q. Does the Norris matter at all as far as judging your own season? I mean, if you're a final list, if you win it, do you say, all right, I had a good season or do you just?
 NICKLAS LINDSTROM: I look at it as being more of a bonus, if you had a strong season hopefully you have a shot at being nominated so that's the way I'm looking at it. I'm fortunate, if you have a strong season you have a chance at it and I felt like I played a lot better than I did the previous year.

 Q. Is the 20th season about getting that final --
 NICKLAS LINDSTROM: I don't know, Pav will take that fighting major into the season that helped me get nominated so maybe I should thank him to be here and one of the three guys nominated. I'm happy to win the Norris, that was my main focus coming here.

 Q. Do you have a place for it at home? 
 NICKLAS LINDSTROM: I'll make a place for it, I'll find a place for it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT