NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 9, 1998
Nicklas Lidstrom
Chris Osgood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Chris, was there enough activity around the net in the Final couple of minutes for you?

CHRIS OSGOOD:  Yeah, definitely.  We seemed to be getting used to that.  It has happened in the last three, four times in the last couple of weeks.  For the most part, we kept our composure.  I mean, they had a couple of shots, we blocked one, and I don't know who missed the net on the other one, maybe Brown or Tikkanen.  For the most part, we got in.  When we did get the puck, we were pretty patient.  Like maybe sometimes before we didn't and this time it was out immediately.


Q.  In the Buffalo series the Caps had very little traffic in front to deal with.  Did Scotty make a point in practice next couple of days to get traffic in front --

NICKLAS LIDSTROM:  We talked throughout the Playoffs to have people in front of net to be there for tips or rebounds.  It worked for us against St. Louis and Phoenix and previous years.  We know we have to have that to be successful.


Q.  Chris, they didn't have a shot the first ten minutes of the second period.  What sort of challenge is that when --

CHRIS OSGOOD:  I think over the years I have gotten used to it.  I have played in games here where I have had lots of shots and games where I had hardly any shots.  I don't mind if they don't have shots, they can't really score.  That is what really matters.  This time of the year you have to stay alert at all times, especially against Washington, they got the scoring, Juneau, Oates, Nikolishin and Zednick, they got Bellows.  They got guys that if they do get a chance, they are going to put a shot on net.  So you have to be ready.  I don't mind that at all, though.


Q.  Comment on playing your first Stanley Cup Final?

CHRIS OSGOOD:  Really no difference, really.  I mean, only difference is you don't know the team as much. Maybe you have to get used to the shooters; get used to what they like to do with the puck.  Up to this point we have played against division rivals, teams we played with over the years.  I don't know how many times we played against Washington, but it is very few.  It is more or less just getting familiar with the team - feeling comfortable; otherwise, just like any other game.


Q.  Joe Kocur gets a goal to start off.  What does that mean to the team?  You have gone through the Playoffs knowing pretty much that everybody on the team can put a goal in at each particular time.  What does that mean to see a guy like Joe get a goal and as far as a lift for the team? 

NICKLAS LIDSTROM:  That is what we have got last year.  That is what we need this year as well.  We have that so far in the Playoffs and we have to continue to have that as well.


Q.  You haven't seen Kolzig that much, two times this year.  Did you learn anything about him this Game 1?

NICKLAS LIDSTROM:  He is a tall goalie.  He looks big at net.  He really goes down and takes pretty much everything on the ice out the way.  We have guys in front there are screening him just like we had in the other series.  He is real quick on his feet and he is really good size.


Q.  Nick, a comment or two about the aggressive play, especially Dale Hunter and taking on Yzerman and that particular play or others, the aggressiveness of the Capitals tonight?

NICKLAS LIDSTROM:  We know their lines are going to play aggressive hockey.  That is pretty much what we expected.  We have to counterattack those things.  I think we have to use our deep speed more like we did tonight.  We know we can.  Our skating day wasn't as good tonight as we know it could be.


Q.  I was just wondering are you going to smile before this series is over?

CHRIS OSGOOD:  I am always happy.  I am just tired right now.  Takes a lot out of me sometimes when I play.  I am always happy.  I am very excited to be here in the Finals.  I am having a real fun time playing, great time out there, and just can't get excited 'til it is over.  That is what we play for.  We didn't play to win the Western Conference.  We played to play here and win.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT