NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: PENGUINS v RED WINGS
June 12, 2009
Nicklas Lidstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 DETROIT  – 1
  PITTSBURGH  – 2 
  
  Q. Obviously, a tough loss. Just your thoughts after this Game 7?   
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM: Yeah, you know, it's a tough loss. We had a real close game. We put ourselves in a bad situation being down 2-0. I thought we played well in the first half. But just a couple of mistakes and we lost the chances.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised it fell off like that in the second?   
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM : A little bit. You know, we were trying hard, and then sometimes in the second period, it's pressing a little bit too much. But we didn't have the two.  
  
  Q. You had a chance for a feeling on the bench?  
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM : Yeah, we had a chance to hit the cross bar late there, in the winding down seconds there as well. We still had chances late in the game.  
  
  Q. What do you remember about that chance? You saw the rebound?   
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM : Just that the puck kind of scored. And their "D" and their forward came out in front of me, and the goalie, the same thing. Just drove across.   
  
  Q. Is this the worst part about all of this, this long season, and this franchise that's used to winning?   
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM : Yeah, it's hard, you know. Falling off short one game. You're so close to, you know, a Stanley Cup. You're fighting hard the whole season to put yourself in a situation, so it's hard to losing the way we did tonight.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM : I thought they played well. You know, I thought we were coming after them really well in the first ten minutes or so of the game. I thought they defended themselves well. And they really opened themselves up and gave us a good chance. You know, once they got the first goal, they felt a lot more confident.   
  
  Q. Talk about Crosby on the break there, was that a chance for you to turn things around?   
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM : I thought at that point they were turn the puck around and making the play. They were just defending themselves. You know, Crosby goes down there and it's a big shot for them. I think they were still defending themselves at that point.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about Hossa as a guy who switched from Pittsburgh to get the Cup?   
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM : Yeah, it's hard on them, too. You know, I thought he did a heck of a job in the course of the playoffs, too.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about (Indiscernible)?  
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM : You know, it's hard to see that we can't get more than a goal in the game. When the play really matters, we really have to score. They played really well without the puck. I thought they defended themselves really well. Almost have a guy collapse and block the goal and blocking a lot of shots.   
 You know, we were pressing hard, we had some chances, but we couldn't get the puck in.  
  
  Q. Would you say this was one of the toughest series you've played?   
 NICKLAS LIDSTROM : Yeah, you know, it's been a tough series since Game 1. You know, it's been going back and forth, you know, trading a lot of chances. It's hard to lose at the end, especially when you're that close to winning.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT