THE IRISH OPEN
June 28, 2012
Andrew Marshall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   6‑under is pretty good going, isn't it?   
ANDREW MARSHALL:   Yeah, for an old hacker like me.   Yes, I played fairly nicely last week, and managed to just keep doing what I'm doing.   Got a nice little routine going and it seems to work so I'm just happy to be here and playing nicely, holing some putts.   New waterproof suit.   
   
 Q.   Which was needed probably when you first started?  
ANDREW MARSHALL:   Yeah, we're staying on a camp site and rained about four this morning.   It was beating like a drum, getting battered.   I thought perhaps we were not playing today.   But it wasn't too bad outside in fairness.   So it was nice at times, as well, quite warm and not too windy.  
   
 Q.   How much modification had there been from your game to move from regular European Tour venues to a links course like this?  
ANDREW MARSHALL:   I think mentally you've got to adjust to it quite a bit because you're playing against superstars instead of also‑rans, one of which I consider myself to be obviously.   
And then of course, you're playing for more money, which takes a bit of getting used to.   And then there's the technique.   I worked quite hard on technique over the last year or so, and if you get that right, I suppose just takes care of itself at the moment so we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Presumably when you're playing a links course like this, you have the vagaries of‑‑  
ANDREW MARSHALL:   It's very hard, I don't get the ball up in the air very much, which is great for weeks like this and last week when it was windy.   And it's a fantastic course and just a joy to be out there.   You can just kick it on the ground; if you have half a touch, you can make a score.   
   
 Q.   Here you are belittling yourself amongst superstars and you're the man that won a multi‑million pound car last week and now you're staying in a caravan.   
ANDREW MARSHALL:   Me and Mr.Wall were having a lovely time.   We have wi‑fi in the cabins and it's a mile away.   It's beautiful.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT