IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 10, 2015
Paul Rhoads
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










PAUL RHOADS: Certainly a reason why they lead total offense in the country and it was on full display today.  Speed, fast, fast offensive football team that operates that way the whole game and executed well.  A lot of things were pivotal, starting out with the interception early that didn't allow us to have a fast start, and then several scrambles that when it comes down to that there's not much excuse to when it comes to coverage or finishing under pressure.  But they've done it against a lot of people.  It's his MO.  He does it very well, and he's a mighty fine quarterback.
Q. What did you tell the team outside the locker room?
PAUL RHOADS: That's what I tell the team and not for you.
Q. You used two quarterbacks; is there a competition now?
PAUL RHOADS: No.  You know, Sam was not having one of his better days, and we've got Joel snaps, but other than during the Kansas game, handing it off and running the ball, he hasn't really had a chance to go out there and play quarterback and run the offense, and we wanted to give him some snaps to do that, and he did a nice job when he was in there.
Q. But Sam is good?  He's still your guy?
PAUL RHOADS: Yeah, yeah.
Q. Do you see Joel getting more and more of those type of snaps as the season goes on?
PAUL RHOADS: Well, that would depend on the performance of our football team.
Q. What about Mike Warren?  He had another good game?
PAUL RHOADS: He had a monster game, 245 yards and 10 yards a carry it says here.  We thought we'd be able to run the football and did, over 300 yards, so now we're over 200 yards three straight games, and if you can keep doing that, it'll give your football team a chance.  We certainly did it today.
Q. You used another kicker at the end.  Is that job open or is that still --
PAUL RHOADS: Yeah, probably is, yeah.  We'll probably kick all week to see who's that guy.
Q. Who is it?
PAUL RHOADS: Chris Francis.
Q. What's his background?
PAUL RHOADS: It was off a kick, by the way, his kick.  But we will, probably, kick all week and see who's the best.
Q. You did say this is what their offense does well.  How much when you evaluate the defense -- how disconcerting is the defense?
PAUL RHOADS: Well, not fully that way until I see the film and see some of the mistakes that went along with it.  They had some new wrinkles that hurt us that we corrected, but they accounted for a little bit of yards before we were able to make adjustments on the sideline.  We did not tackle well, and my biggest concern is we should be able to play the perimeter run that comes off the tackle and we should be able to play the perimeter pass with equal speed and equal success, and we did not do that very well.  We've got to get that cleaned up.
Q. It looked like right before halftime you stopped and talked to the official for an extended time.  What --
PAUL RHOADS: Oh, there was nothing serious there.  I was actually talking about -- the last piece was clock operator.  That clock ran to zero on a dead ball.
Q. Okay, so you've got Tech out of the way, and it doesn't get any easier looking forward now --
PAUL RHOADS: No.
Q. What do you have to do to stay in those games?
PAUL RHOADS: The primary thing, what I just said to Bobby, is we've got to play better perimeter run and pass defense, and that's our outside linebackers, that's our cornerback and our safeties to both sides of the plays.  Those are the guys that are on alert when those plays occur.  We've got to leverage them faster.  We've got to get off blocks better, and we've got to tackle with urgency and immediacy.
There's angles involved in that that I thought were poor today, but you're right, the speed and pace isn't going to slow down the next two weeks, and on paper, the next two offenses are better than this one.
Q. The 3-4, is that still good for --
PAUL RHOADS: Yeah, yeah.  Schematically, yeah, I'm as excited as I was through the first four games.  Have we recruited personnel-wise to the defense yet?  No, so that's the next piece that goes along with it.  But the guys that we have right now are what we have for the next seven ballgames, and we've got to make sure they play better first and foremost.
Q. How did you think Joel did when he got those snaps?
PAUL RHOADS: I thought he played well.  I thought he threw accurate balls, very catchable balls, probably should have had a couple more completions when it was all said and done.  He's tough, showed good poise in the pocket.  Could have scrambled on the one better.  He had great time.  He got comfortable there instead of moving around and created something with the receiver himself.  The touchdown run was a really nice run.
Q. Luke not starting today, what was --
PAUL RHOADS: Luke just hasn't been getting the practice time.  As I told you two weeks ago, he's going to be in pain the rest of the year, and the pain is keeping him off the practice field, and the practice field -- lack of practice field time is lack of preparation.
Q. (Inaudible) limped off the field.  How is he doing?
PAUL RHOADS: We'll see Monday.
Q. Anybody else noticeably that --
PAUL RHOADS: No.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT