NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAGIC v CAVALIERS
May 29, 2009
Zydrunas Ilgauskas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just talk about sort of how valuable, especially in that fourth quarter, LeBron was to you guys and how that facilitated because you guys kind of all seemed to work through each other. 
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS: It was huge. We went to him pretty much every possession obviously, and he delivered. So, you know, the game plan was keep the game close. And once we got out -- once they cut out and up by about eight points, we just tried to get it close in the fourth quarter. And he did that.

 Q. What do you guys know about him when he goes to the basket? What kind of fouls are going to get called and how he can drive? 
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS: You know, usually when goes to the basket, 90 percent of the time good things happen. With Dwight in there, it is tough for him because Dwight is a great shot blocker.
 I think LeBron has been doing a good job mixing it up outside, inside. But once we got Dwight out of the game, it just opened up all the lanes for him.

 Q. What is LeBron doing because when they have that contact, he is doing something to make sure that Dwight's the one getting the foul. 
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS: You know, LeBron weighs probably just as much as Dwight. People don't realize that. So it is two big bodies colliding. He is just not afraid of the contact. 
 Speaking from a big-guy standpoint, it is hard when somebody goes to the basket. It is really hard not to pick up a foul. That's how the game is called.

 Q. You have been beaten here four times this season. What do you guys have to do to win in Orlando? 
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS: I don't know. Make more baskets than they do. Just if we play like we did last time, we are going to be fine because we felt like we should have won last time. 
 Obviously made a great shot at the end and sent it into overtime. Up one point with 6 seconds left, you know, that's not a bad position to be in. So we just try to keep it close. Obviously, there won't be any big blowouts or anything like that.
 We will try to keep it close coming in the fourth quarter. A few points one way or the other. And then we have LeBron, he is the difference maker.

 Q. They have been able to get off to fast starts here as opposed to playing in Cleveland. What do you have to do to make sure that doesn't happen? 
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS: I think there was really no big difference. A few points here and there both games, but there was really no blowouts like in Cleveland where it was 20 points up. 
 So for us, I think keep defending. We got to do a better job on defense. We shot the ball extremely well this series. So for us to win, we are going to have to play good defense. We are going to score points. 

 Q. Does it get any easier when you keep playing and defend Dwight? Do you pick up anything as the game is going? 
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS: You pick up that your body is sore more and more every day, but you just, you know, try to mix it up. 
 My teammates have been doing a good job of helping. He is a load. He is a tough cover. We try not to give him a lot of easy looks, put him on the foul line. He has been making his foul shots. That's a tribute to him. 
 We got to mix it up because you can't double team him every time. Just mix it up and then make it hard for him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT