NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 13, 2007
Zydrunas Ilgauskas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  You know, we'll have to forget about this and restart from the beginning tomorrow.  Now it's the goal just to win one game at a time, really.  You can't look ahead that we need four in a row and stuff like that, just take it one day at a time.   
  
  Q.  What happened last night?  Obviously you guys took the shots.  They gave you an opportunity but the big three really struggled in scoring.   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  Yeah, they didn't play well last night, and that was our chance.  Ginobili had an off-night, Tim and Tony didn't play as well as they did before, but they still played good defense, you know, held us to a really low percentage shooting-wise.  We couldn't hit any shots, really had some good looks, but every time we had an opportunity to put it away, we just went on a dry run.   
  
  Q.  Any explanation as to you guys did such a great job last night going inside in the first half, easier shots; second half you come out and start jacking up the threes, and when they didn't fall you continued to shoot them?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  Well, they started double-teaming all the post-ups, so we had to kick it out and shooting those threes and long jump shots, really the ones they were giving up.  They shrunk the middle, and a couple times that the guys drove to the basket they just got pummeled and somebody took the ball and that was it.  I don't know, if those shots go in, those are great shots, but obviously when you're struggling, it looks bad.   
  
  Q.  What about your play?  Seems like you were a little bit more energized last night.  You got a lot of tipped balls, kept a lot of the offensive plays alive.   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  Well, there was a lot of missed shots, so there was a lot of opportunities.  But just tried to -- every time there was a shot go up.  Tim was rotating a lot of times into LeBron or somebody else, so I was left on the backside with a lot of smaller guys, so stayed around the back and tried to kick it to myself or kick it back to somebody else, just trying -- because we struggled offensively just trying to get our second and third opportunities.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT