NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 9, 2007
Zydrunas Ilgauskas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tough shooting night for you in Game 1.  What do you attribute that to?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  I don't know, I think just shots didn't go in for the most part.  A couple jump shots that I got that were open, usually I knock those down, and they didn't go.  But I have to keep shooting those.   
 And the other ones I missed right on the rim.  They were either lay-ups or tip-ins.  It happens sometimes.  Obviously they're a good defending team and they didn't give up any easy baskets around the rim.  But the ones that I missed, I'll take them any day because I'll make them next time.   
  
  Q.  It seems like when you get off early, get those couple of jumpers early, it helps you throughout the rest of the game?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  It does, for a big guy, especially, it helps when you get an easy tip-in or a dunk to start the game because then it gets you going and keeps you in the rhythm, keeps your confidence going.  We are depending on other people.  I can't bring the ball up the floor myself, at least not against this team.  But like I said, the shots that I missed were good shots, I really didn't force anything but maybe one time on the baseline side.  I'll take them any day.   
  
  Q.  (How difficult is it to defend Tony Parker?)   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  It's hard because a lot of that damage comes not from the big guys but from him, and usually you don't see the point guards making a living in the paint.  If you go to him too much, he's a good passer, he passes off the ball nice to other people.  Most of the stuff came in transition and off the pick-and-roll.  We'll just have to do a better job on the pick-and-roll defense, and it's not only the guy that's guarding him, it's all five guys you have to roll to the ball and make him pick it and not for a lay-up but for jump shots.  I didn't do a good job of that.   
  
  Q.  How confident are you that things are going to be different in Game 2?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  Although we were still in the game for the most part, still until the end of the third quarter when they built a comfortable lead, we didn't play well.  We didn't execute well, we forced a lot of shots.  Defensively we were a still behind.  We know we didn't play our best basketball, and this is a long series so we'll play better.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT