NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 30, 2007
Zydrunas Ilgauskas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Are you guys ready for an important Game 5 tomorrow night?  How does this team feel?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  We feel good.  Like I said, after being down 0-2, we have to go home and get the home-court advantage and try to make this a three-game series, and we still realize in order to win this series, for us to win the series we have to win here one of these games.  Hopefully tomorrow will be the day.   
  
  Q.  What was the feeling in the fourth quarter that turned things around for you guys?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  There are no magic tricks, the biggest thing is just the little stuff we did well.  We set solid screens, we moved the ball well.  (Inaudible)  They were always on the floor diving for loose balls.  I guess the biggest thing is we didn't really turn the ball over and we played good defense and then we scored points.  .   
  
  Q.  What would you say the word is to describe the third quarter after watching yourself?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  We didn't really watch that much.  They pointed out to us -- I don't know, we tried a bunch of different things.  The reality is that they turned it up a notch and we really can't sustain them, that's what it really boils down to.  I'm sure we relaxed a little bit, maybe being up 10 or 12 points, and then they come out and just kick our butts and get back into the game, and it becomes a dogfight from there.   
  
  Q.  Do you draw at all on the success you had in Game 5 last year, or is that too far in the rearview mirror for you guys to think of at this stage?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  You think about it, but, you know, if it happens, that would be a great scenario for us.  Obviously Game 6 we lost, but, you know, like I say, for us to win the series, we have to win one game here and we all know what Game 7 in a hostile environment means from last year, you know.  They really blew us out.   
 But we like our chances.  All of these games have been close, so, you know, we'll see.   
  
  Q.  Last night LeBron was saying he's never been this determined, wanting this so badly, how did he convey that as a leader in the huddle or on the court?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  In the regular season there are a lot of dog days, and guys get tired of each other, and tired of basketball, and once the playoff started he's a different person, he's more determined.  He took the first bus a lot of times to the games to get a lot of shooting in.  All the film sessions, sitting in the front row instead of the back row.  So I guess just he realizes what kind of opportunity we have, you know.  He might be on this team for a long time, but for some guys the window closes that he has to play with.  So he knows this is special.   
  
  Q.  How is he almost like a coach on the floor?  We see him in huddles, just kind of encouraging teammates and I understand it sounds like he's doing that more than ever now.   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  Well, he gets emotional, you know, and we need him.  We run all of our plays, especially at the end of the game, through him.  So he knows best, you know, who is open and how to get the ball from one side to the other, how to get an open shot for a teammate.  So when he commands so much attention you have to listen to him, you know, because he's seen all the defensive coverages there are in the world.  So we have to listen to him.   
  
  Q.  You're saying that it's a three-game series, two games are in Detroit.  How motivating is it to making it just a two-game series and avoid coming back here for a seventh game?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  I don't know, you know, we don't look that far.  We always take one game at a time during these playoffs, and tomorrow is another game and we'll go out there and see what happens, you know.  Hopefully we'll get a win, but like I said, it's an opportunity, you know, and then we go back home and try it again, so take one game at a time.   
  
  Q.  Is there any sense among you guys that you kind of rattled their cage a little bit, shook them up?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  Well, I just think we match up well, you know.  They're more experienced, and they are a very good team, but, you know, from last year to this year we play well with them, and we're a good home team, playing good defense in these playoffs, so we'll give ourselves a chance.   
  
  Q.  Do you remember anything about Game 5 last year?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  No, each game has been so different and each series has been so different and who knows what's going to happen tomorrow, and so far it's been nail-biters, to the end each game, but I'm sure that (inaudible) all came down to the last two games, so it's going to be tough, for sure.   
  
  Q.  The Pistons have been known for their mental strength in fourth quarters the last few years, has it surprising that they have unraveled the way they have last few games?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  I don't really think they have.  They had some shots that didn't go in, they get frustrated when that happens, and we do that all the time, too.  So, when something doesn't go your way, everybody gets frustrated a little bit but you can't look too much into it, because they've been through everything, they've been down by three, they've played back-to-back seven-game series, and they've seen it all, so you know they're going to be ready.   
  
  Q.  Do you expect Larry to play at all?   
 ZYDRUNAS ILGAUSKAS:  I don't know.  I don't know, really.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT