NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: SAN DIEGO
March 15, 2018
Jevon Carter
Esa Ahmad
Daxter Miles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We welcome student-athletes from West Virginia, Daxter Miles, Esa Ahmad and Jevon Carter.  We will take questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Guys, just wondering how the preparations have gone in your minds and do you think the team is ready?
DAXTER MILES: I think that we have to have a really good practice today and a good walk-through tomorrow and just get each other's minds ready and prepare to play.
Q. Jevon, for those of us who haven't covered you through the years, when did defense become such a focus for you?  So many guys want to come in and score all the time.  When did it become an emphasis for you and important to you?
JEVON CARTER: The day I stepped on campus.  I knew we were going to press coming here.  I knew Coach Huggs was a defensive coach.  When I stepped on campus it was defense first.
Q. It's one thing to know you're going to press and for coaches to recruit saying we press a lot.  When did you guys get that moment after you arrived on campus realizing that it is not just pressing, there is a full commitment to the way you guys press?
JEVON CARTER: When we started our three-hour practices.  We work on our press a lot.  We work on defense a lot.  It's not a big focus on offense, so when you practice for three hours and you feel like you haven't shot the ball all day, that's when you start to notice that we're going to play real hard on defense.
Q. Three-hour practices and you haven't shot the ball all day.  Is there a point when you as players start to question, are we overdoing it a little bit?  At what point do you let go of all that and realize that that is the identity?
ESA AHMAD: Defense is a big emphasis that we emphasize; and, you know, coming from our defense that's how we get our offense, turning people over and making them uncomfortable and getting easy baskets at the other end.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, gentlemen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT