U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2014
Doug Garwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What were you particularly pleased with most?  DOUG GARWOOD: Hit it to about 6 inches three times.  That was probably my range for putting today.  Couple irons I miscued, made a couple bogies I wasn't real happy with.  But hitting it close a few times made the bad things go away.   Q.  What do you think about now getting ready for tomorrow?  DOUG GARWOOD: I'm thinking I'm happy I made the cut.   Q.  Doug, you were kind of sailing around until you got to the backside when you bogeyed 2 and 3.  DOUG GARWOOD: Bogeyed 3 and 4.  Middle of the fairway with 3.  Had a 9-iron, easy shot.  I think I aimed a little right and missed the green and missed about a 5-footer and then 4, same thing.  9-iron.  I think I aimed to the right, missed the green right, made bogey.  Just really simple things, alignment.   Q.  You rebound with a couple of birdies on the way in.  Tell me about those.  DOUG GARWOOD: Next hole I lipped out and hit it about 6 inches and then 7 I hit a big drive, had a 4-iron in and two-putted for birdie and, so, my birdies were two putts and 6 inches.  It was one of those days.   Q.  What they talked about in the pre-Championship interviews if you put it in the fairway you got a chance to score here.  DOUG GARWOOD: Yeah, I'd say-so.  This is not a golf course that you can compete well from the rough.  I mean everyone is going to hit it a few times, probably, but if you're hitting it 7 out of 14 times you're not going to score very well. The rough is thick.  The green complexes are narrow.  There's steep drop-offs.  So, you know, like most golf courses, you got to put it in the fairway, got to put it on green, but even more so here.  So I agree.   Q.  Do you like your position right now, 3-under?  Who knows where the lead will be at the end of the day with the wind picking up?  DOUG GARWOOD: Yeah.  Obviously it's a good position.  I had a couple of putts, you know, that I felt like I could have made today.  I didn't really make anything, as I said, so, you know, overall I was just hoping to play well and I feel like under par is playing well here.   Q.  Playing in the Senior Open, is this what you expected after you've gone around here twice and the circumstances of the Senior Open?  DOUG GARWOOD: As far as the hoopla and everything?   Q.  Yeah.  DOUG GARWOOD: Probably a little more than I anticipated.  I played in The Players and that had a lot.  Played in the Tradition, that had a lot.  I've never played -- I played in one USGA before, that was the Public Links which I understand is going away, and so this is my first Open or Senior Open and yeah, it's fun.  I like it.  I'm going to have ham and swiss for lunch.  No  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT