NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
Kemba Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KEMBA WALKER: It's been fun.  It's been fun thus far.  We haven't really done too much yet.  I'm going to try to soak it all in.  Just really enjoy myself and hope my fans enjoy themselves as well.  So far, so good.
Q. You've had some time to kind of spend with some of these guys now.  How are things going?
KEMBA WALKER: Good.  These guys are super cool, down to earth.  It's fun to get to know other players, especially guys I really don't know.  Get a chance to meet them and just see how they act other than being on the court competing against these guys.  It's a really cool experience.  I'm really enjoying it so far.
Q. For you, it's going to be a pretty busy weekend, the Three-Point Contest as well as the All-Star Game.  Just kind of talk about, are you starting to soak it all in or getting nervous or anything like that?
KEMBA WALKER: I've been nervous.  Yeah, I'm definitely soaking it all in.  I'm looking forward to all the events.  Tonight I get a chance to watch Frank [Kaminsky], my teammate.  I'm really excited for him to be in that game.  It's really a big deal to be part of the Rising Stars.
Also on Saturday night, that's something that all kids grow up watching, All-Star Saturday Night.  To actually be a part of one of these events is super cool, especially the Three-Point Contest.  I would never in a million years thought I would be in a three-point contest, but I am.  I'm looking forward to really competing out there.
Q. Talking about that, did you practice specially for the Three-Point Contest?
KEMBA WALKER: I did.  I got a chance to practice this morning actually.  It's very different, very different.  I'm a guy who usually shoots three balls off the dribble for the most part.  It's different.  A little challenging.  Like I said, man, it's all fun.  I'm definitely going to compete and try my best to do as best as I can.  Like I said, it's all fun, and I'm looking forward to it.
Q. The chance to come off the dribble or shoot it like Klay Thompson.  Is he the guy to beat?  Would you like to beat him?
KEMBA WALKER: Of course.  He's the reigning champion.  Yeah, definitely got to get through him.
Q. Do you know which player of your teammates is more excited to play with?
KEMBA WALKER: Everybody.  Can't single any one guy out.
Q. Just name one you never played with.
KEMBA WALKER: Probably Melo.  I'm a huge Melo fan since I was a young kid.  It will be cool to be with him.
Q. This Eastern team is loaded with guards.  What does it say about the state of guards in the NBA right now?
KEMBA WALKER: The guards right now in this league are tough.  I mean, it's not many nights off.  Every single night, you're going up against top 10 guards, All-Star or not.  It's pretty insane.  It's pretty insane.  Like I said, it's fun.  It's really cool being able to compete each and every night against a top 10 guard.  It just brings that competitive nature out of everyone.  I think that's really cool.
Q. Frank was saying during the Rising Stars availability, they're going to change the game up and make it about defense this year.  Do you think that's going to happen out there on Sunday night too?
KEMBA WALKER: Never.  About defense?  No, I doubt it.  Usually -- I mean, unless the game is close and it gets to the fourth quarter, I'm not sure there will be too much defense.
Q. How does an All-Star Game really suit your game?
KEMBA WALKER: It suits all of our games for the most part.  Usually, All-Star Games are guard-oriented.  But it definitely suits my game, being able to play off the dribble and just play with the ball low, things like that, it's definitely cool being in an All-Star Game.
Q. You could have been playing this game in your home arena.  How do you feel about moving the game to New Orleans?
KEMBA WALKER: I hated it.  I hated it.  It sucks.  I would have loved to have been at home in Charlotte.  It's definitely a great state back at home, but unfortunately, we can't.  Now we're here in New Orleans, and I'm really excited just to achieve this accomplishment.  But, yeah, it definitely sucks to not be in Charlotte.
Q. How important do you think it is for the league to take a stand on an issue like that, though?
KEMBA WALKER: I think it's important.  I'm glad they did what they did.  They had to do what they had to do.  Now it's here in New Orleans and we're all just going to focus on it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT