NBA DRAFT
June 23, 2011
Kemba Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







KEMBA WALKER (No. 9)
  CHARLOTTE BOBCATS

 Q. Your thoughts on being drafted by Charlotte? 
 KEMBA WALKER: I'm extremely happy to be going to Charlotte. I'm happy to be a New York City kid, being able to live his dream. A lot of guys from New York grow up dreaming about playing in the NBA, and here I am going to Charlotte playing for what people say is the greatest player to play this game, and I'm going to play for his team.
 I'm happy that he's giving me this opportunity, this whole week, this whole weekend, I've been hearing a lot of things about myself, but he's giving me a chance and I really appreciate it. 

 Q. You were not exactly sure how things were going to play out. Did this exceed your expectations?
 KEMBA WALKER: I'm happy. I'm happy. I can't complain at all. If I went 30, I wouldn't be mad, honestly. 
 I'm just happy to be in the NBA. You know, I'm just going to continue to work hard and you know just keep on improving.

 Q. What do you know about the Bobcats already, and what are your thoughts on maybe sharing time with D.J. Augustin who is another young, fast point guard like yourself? 
 KEMBA WALKER: Well, I know a couple of guys on the team -- I know of a couple of guys on the team, but as far as sharing time with D.J., I have no problem. As long as we are playing well and we are winning, if I can do anything, anything possible to help that team, I'm willing. 

 Q. Being as intense of a player as you are, how much will you be picking Michael Jordan's mind while you're there?
 KEMBA WALKER: All the time. He's the greatest player to ever play the game so, anything I can learn from that man, I'm going to ask a lot of questions. I'm going to go in there with an open mind and just be ready to learn. 

 Q. Right before you got drafted, you were described as a guy that Michael Jordan would love. Can you tell us why?
 KEMBA WALKER: I'm a winner. He was a winner. He had a lot of heart when he played, and I'm all about heart. I go out there, I compete every night, and you know, I'm not going to go down without a fight. 

 Q. Talk about how when you get to Charlotte, how the skill set things that you have to work on to really get those minutes and be able to pass D.J. in playing time?
 KEMBA WALKER: Well, I'm going to have to work on a lot of things. First of all, I'm going to have to adjust to the NBA, first of all. It's a different ballgame. There's still a lot of room for improvement in my shooting and my decisionmaking. 

 Q. From that little tiny gym up until now, can you talk about the culmination of the hard work and your journey?
 KEMBA WALKER: My hard work -- I've always had talents but hard work just took my talent to another level. I guess I deserve this; I deserve it, and I'm extremely happy to have this opportunity. 

 Q. Talk about what the Charlotte Bobcats have said to you, what are their expectations of you and what have you heard from the team?
 KEMBA WALKER: Nothing. I have no idea right now. When I met with those guys, they really just asked me no questions about my upbringing. They told me they think I would fit in well with their team, that's it.

 Q. Has everything gone by so quickly for you, with the national tournament, being here and being drafted, have you had time to reflect on that and did your focus change to this? Or now will you have a breather to think about everything that's happened over the last couple of months?
 KEMBA WALKER: Yeah, it's been like a movie. This whole year has been magical, honestly. So many different, crazy things have been happening to me, and you know, I just feel lucky. I feel blessed. I have God on my side and hopefully the sky is the limit for me. 

 Q. Talk about the 2008 point guard class, it's looking pretty solid, Brandon Jennings, yourself, Jrue Holiday and Tyreke Evans. Talk about how impressive you guys have been able to grow? 
 KEMBA WALKER: Definitely. We take things to heart when people say we are a weak class. We just go out there and try to prove guys wrong, and we have. My high school class, it's pretty strong I think, a lot of those guys are in the NBA now and doing pretty well, and here I come. 

 Q. What do you think you learned at UCONN from Coach Calhoun that will serve you in the NBA?
 KEMBA WALKER: Pace, I learned pace. I learned how to use my speed. I learned when to slow it down and I think that would definitely translate to the NBA game. 

 Q. Have you had a chance to talk to Coach Calhoun?
 KEMBA WALKER: No, I haven't. I haven't had a chance to speak to him but I'm pretty sure he's probably calling me right now, honestly. But no, not yet. 

 Q. With all of the skills you're bringing to the NBA, what do you think your biggest adjustment will be?
 KEMBA WALKER: Biggest adjustment? I really have no idea. Like I said, I'm going in with an open mind and I'm just going to be willing to learn. 

 Q. Obviously D.J. Augustine is already there, he had a very good season last year. Both of you guys can really score the basketball as well as facilitate. Are you comfortable playing off the ball, or do you feel most comfortable with the ball in your hands and leading the team as the guard? 
 KEMBA WALKER: I'm definitely more confident playing on the ball, but last year, having to score so much, I learned how to be off the ball. If there's a situation where me and D.J. is in the game together, both of us, depending how the night is going can play off the ball, so there's no problem with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT