NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 23, 2020
Kemba Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Miami Heat 112, Boston Celtics 109
Q. What did you see as the biggest factors as to why you find yourselves in a 3-1 loss?  What jumps out at you most?
KEMBA WALKER:   There's so many different aspects.  Definitely some turnovers, offensive rebounds.  They definitely had a lot of opportunities to score the basketball.  So, yeah, a lot of different things.
Q. How did you wrap your head around the news today with Breonna Taylor how did you try to handle all those emotions having a game tonight?
KEMBA WALKER:   I can't wrap my head around it, to be honest.  I'm kind of at a loss for words, to be honest with you.  It's a really sad situation.  I just really feel bad for her and her family.  They definitely deserve more.  They deserve justice.  It didn't happen.
But, you know, we as a people, we have to stand strong with them, support them as best as we can.  I wish the best for that family.
Q. Jaylen described he felt you came out flat tonight.  Can you explain why?  Was it the break or anything like that?
KEMBA WALKER:   No, I can't explain why.  I don't know, to be honest.  That's really hard to hear, hearing that we came out flat.  At the end of the day, you just have to be better.  That's it.
Q. In Game 3, you guys scored 60 points in the paint; tonight only 38.  What did Miami do differently?
KEMBA WALKER:   I'm not sure.  I just don't think we attacked enough.  I don't think we were aggressive enough.  We weren't as aggressive as last game.  We got to get back to that.
Q. You went with your best five late in the game.  Just struggled to get stops.  What needs to improve in that group moving forward?
KEMBA WALKER:   I think they made tough shots.  At the end of the day, we got to find a way.  That's really all we can do.  We can do it.  It's about pride.  It's about wanting to do it.  Next game we got to come out and show that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT