NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Kemba Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you think about Kobe Bryant and what you learned from him on and off the court, what's the first thing that comes to mind?
KEMBA WALKER: Like I've been saying, just his work ethic, second to none. He was a very, very, very hard worker, and you could tell. Fourth quarter came, I feel like everybody else is always tired, and Kobe wasn't, you feel me? Yeah, he was a special guy.
Q. FIBA in 2019 didn't go so well. It kind of went sideways. Are you anxious to get back out on the court for Team USA and represent?
KEMBA WALKER: Of course. It will be a great honor. But you never know. Whenever the time comes, then -- if I start to think about it right now, we're in the NBA season, and just trying to do big things with my team.
Q. Be honest, what's the best bacon, egg and cheese? Bronx, right?
KEMBA WALKER: No question. It's definitely in the Bronx. Any corner store you go to in the Bronx is the best for sure.
Q. What's your favorite nickname?
KEMBA WALKER: My favorite nickname? "EZ Pass" maybe.
Q. What are your thoughts on Chicago?
KEMBA WALKER: I love the city of Chicago. Great shopping, I'll tell you that much. Great shopping. The hotel I'm in is super dope. The only thing about it, it's freezing. That's the only thing.
Q. Can you say something to China about the coronavirus?
KEMBA WALKER: Yeah, I would definitely tell them to stay strong. That virus has been really tough. I would say good luck to everyone and stay safe.
Q. Not trying to dig up the past, but is it any different representing a different organization in the All-Star Weekend?
KEMBA WALKER: Not really. Same old thing for the most part. I mean, I don't know if it's something you really get used to, but it's pretty much -- I mean, it's the same format, just a different team.
Q. With another teammate, though?
KEMBA WALKER: Yeah, it is. It's nice to be here with another teammate, especially my guy Jayson [Tatum]. We're really close. It's a really cool experience to be here with him.
Q. Can you finish the sentence: Because of Kobe, I am...
KEMBA WALKER: Because of Kobe, I am a very, very hard worker, for sure.
Q. Your top two favorite artists coming out of Brooklyn?
KEMBA WALKER: Pop Smoke, Fivio Foreign -- that's all I can think about right now. I don't know. Those are the two best artists now. Oh, I can't forget Casanova, of course. Definitely Cas, definitely.
Q. We saw you talking to Devonte' [Graham] last night. Did you give any advice to him last night?
KEMBA WALKER: I can't give any advice; I didn't win. He's having a great year shooting the basketball, though. I just told him good luck and told him I have my money on him.
Q. What is this weekend going to be like?
KEMBA WALKER: Very emotional, of course. Of course with the tragic death of Kobe and Gigi and the rest of the families on the plane. David Stern, it's definitely going to be a very emotional weekend, and we're going to celebrate those guys and everyone else as best as we can. They meant so much to our game. They grew the game so much. We all just have a lot of respect for them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT