NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND 2019
February 17, 2019
Kemba Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Team LeBron - 178, Team Giannis 164
Q. Kemba, can you just talk about what this means tonight being in front of your hometown and what it meant to be a starter for the first time?
KEMBA WALKER: It meant a lot, man.  Being a starter for my first time in Charlotte, what more can I ask for?  I thought we put on a great show tonight as a whole.  I thought the fans enjoyed it.  It was a really exciting time.  This whole weekend was just phenomenal.  Definitely appreciate the city of Charlotte for all the love and support they've showed.
Q. Kemba, wanted to ask you about how your game continues to grow little by little, gradually by gradually, and you're not even at your peak yet.  Talk about how you're continuing to grow and process that.
KEMBA WALKER: I just put the work in, man.  That's really all it is.  Try my best to get better each and every year, each and every season.  It's a lot of young guys trying to come after my spot each and every year.  Great competition in this league.
Every year you just have to improve, and that's all I try to do.  Try to get better every year.
Q. How did this experience of hosting the All-Star Game, having all these other stars in your city compare to your expectations, and how do you adjust to the going back to the grind in the regular season after something like this?
KEMBA WALKER: It was amazing, man.  It was amazing.  I know we had so many huge names here over the weekend, but as an individual I felt like the city supported me a lot, and I really appreciated that throughout this weekend.
As far as getting back to the season, that's what we do.  We play basketball, and for us, if we really want to make a push, we've just got to be locked in.  So I'll try to my best to get some rest, recover a little bit from this weekend, and keep it going.
Q. Kemba, you weren't able to spend a lot of time driving to your basket like you normally do today, but you handing out a bunch of assists today.  How do you feel about showing that part of your game?
KEMBA WALKER: I mean, it wasn't much.  I was just throwing it for guys, and they were just getting dunks.  I think I could pass the ball a little bit.  Like I said, I was just having fun out there.  Whenever I seen the open guy, trying to get rid of the basketball.  Just trying to play the game the right way.
Q. Kemba, obviously, it's the grind of that regular court feel at home, but at the same time, speaking with LeBron just now, the phrase, or the word he used is that you've made this franchise relevant.  How do you respond to something like that, playing alongside Tony Parker and the feel of having J.B. (James Borrego) as head coach this season?
KEMBA WALKER: It's been amazing, especially playing alongside T.P.  I've learned a lot from him throughout the course of this season.  I just try my best.  I try to play the game the right way, try to put the city on the map and try to put this organization on the map.  I know we don't get noticed as much or we don't get televised as much, but hopefully one day we can.
Q. Of all the activities and the game, what will stand out to you most about your All-Star experience?
KEMBA WALKER: I think for me was when I got introduced, I kind of got goose bumps at how loud the crowd was for me.  I just really appreciate that.  They showed me a lot of love.  I appreciate you all.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT