U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2015
Kenzie Neisen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So you had to draw it out a little bit; the fact that you were in the hole early, can you talk a little bit about digging out of the hole?KENZIE NEISEN: Yeah, I was 3-down, I can't remember through how many holes it was, but I know match play can be a little crazy sometimes.  You never know what can happen, so I tried to just stay really patient and calm out there and focus on the shot I have and try to execute those, and I had -- I won two holes in a row at one point, so I was 1-down, and then I think I was back to 2-down, and then 1-down after 16 I think it was, and then won 18 and then played the last two playoff holes.Q. Tell me about what happened on 18 and then the playoff holes.KENZIE NEISEN: 18, I parred it.  She had a little trouble on that hole, went left, and then the first playoff hole we both parred.  She almost made the birdie putt, and then both of us --Q. She had about a two and a half footer, didn't she?  Was that the one where she had a short putt?KENZIE NEISEN: No, it was probably eight, nine feet maybe on the first hole, and then the second playoff hole we both had -- were kind of fighting each other to see who could get up-and-down from where we were, and she almost drained a really long putt, too.  She's a great player, so it was a fun day out there.  Yeah, I guess staying patient got me through it and grinded it out, I guess.Q. How long was your par putt on the last hole?KENZIE NEISEN: Probably like two feet.Q. You had to fight for this one, didn't you?KENZIE NEISEN: I did, yeah.  After the first couple holes, I knew I was up to some good competition.  She's a great player, and yeah, a really good putter, too, so I knew I had to start making some of mine.  But it's fun when it's like that, when it's a battle out there.  I know it's probably tough for her because she was up so much right away.  But I think all of us learn from match play that if you keep grinding it out, anything can happen.Q. How many of these have you played in?  USGA events have been a big part of your maturation as a golfer?KENZIE NEISEN: Yeah, I think three Junior Girls and then this is my second Am, and actually the first Am I was in, I was also in a playoff to make it to match play.Q. Which one was that?KENZIE NEISEN: It was in Cleveland.Q. Was that '12?KENZIE NEISEN: 2012, yeah.Q. So you're used to this playoff thing; that's three Playoffs now for you in your Women's Am history?KENZIE NEISEN: Yeah, lots of extra holes, that's for sure.Q. Talk about coming into this event after winning two events back-to-back and just kind of when your game started clicking for you.KENZIE NEISEN: Well, the first day obviously didn't go the greatest.  The second day I was able to make more putts, so that helped, and I knew I was going to have to score really low or well in the second round, and I was able to just sneak right in there and then make it in the playoff.Q. Pretty gratifying day today for you?KENZIE NEISEN: Yeah, it was.  Yep, very fun and exciting.Q. What did you do well that helped you win this match?KENZIE NEISEN: I think my ball-striking is a little better than it has been the last couple days.  I struggled -- my putting struggled a little bit in the beginning.  I don't know if I was tense at all because I was down right away, so I just reminded myself, one shot at a time, be in control of what you can control and not think about outside things.Q. How much does your caddie help you out there?KENZIE NEISEN: He's more the emotional and mental support.Q. This is caddie daddy, right?KENZIE NEISEN: Yeah.  He helps with yardage and wind when I need it.  I wouldn't say much of an analyzer when I play.  Too much information can be a little much for me.  I like simple. And greens, when I have caddies, I try to do most of it on my own, unless there's some putts obviously that I'm not sure, I'll ask for help.Q. Did you have a caddie in the Minnesota events?KENZIE NEISEN: Yeah.Q. And did he caddie for you?KENZIE NEISEN: For the qualifier?Q. No, the Minnesota Am and Open.KENZIE NEISEN: Oh, yes.Q. Your dad caddied for you?KENZIE NEISEN: No, my boyfriend actually caddied for me.  But my dad caddied for the qualifier for me.Q. So you fired your boyfriend then?KENZIE NEISEN: No, he just couldn't come.  No, we like having him there.  Both my sister and I like having my dad on the bag.  It's fun.Q. He's not a club professional, is he?KENZIE NEISEN: No.Q. Is he a good golfer?KENZIE NEISEN: He goes out and plays just for fun, nothing too serious.Q. He's an amateur?KENZIE NEISEN: Yep, just for fun.Q. In every sense of the word?KENZIE NEISEN: Yeah.Q. How far do you think you hit it off the tee?  Have you gotten any longer?KENZIE NEISEN: Since like school?Q. Uh-huh.KENZIE NEISEN: I think a little bit.  I got new clubs in the fall -- yeah, after our fall season.  I saw a little bit of difference.  I was getting too much thin on my ball so it wasn't rolling out as much as it could.  Pretty close to the same, it's just I'm getting more roll in my woods.Q. So you're carrying it the same?KENZIE NEISEN: I might be a little bit farther, but it's pretty close.Q. How far do you think you hit it?KENZIE NEISEN: My driver, probably I carry 240 but roll-out can be -- depends on the holes, too.  270, I don't know.  I don't really keep track of it.Q. So you're a longer hitter?KENZIE NEISEN: Yeah, yeah.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT