THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 5, 2014
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A 64, 14 of 18 greens and minimal stress out there?
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I played really well today.   I had a hiccup on the first hole.   I missed like a 15‑inch putt, but I refocused myself, and just played solid golf.   I didn't make a whole lot of mistakes and gave myself lots of chances, and my putting was spot on today.

Q.   Let's talk about that eagle at number 12.   That second shot was tight. 
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Yeah, I hit a really good one there.   I had a 3‑iron off a downhill lie, just caught it really cleanly.   It started left of the pin there and faded back.   As soon as it started fading I said be good, and it landed I think just short of the green, which is perfect, because it killed the momentum and bounced up there about five feet and made the putt.

Q.   How are you feeling for Sunday? 
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I feel good.   It's a beautiful day out here at Greenbrier.   I think everybody's excited to be here.   It's a beautiful course.   I'm just happy to be playing on the weekend.

Q.   Best round of the day so far.   Can you take us through it? 
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Yeah, I really played solid all day.   Even from the start I had a hiccup on the first hole.   I missed a 15‑inch putt for par, and I just wasn't‑‑ my mind was wandering or whatever, but gathered myself after that, gave myself some good chances.   Made a good par putt on the second to kind of get the momentum going and just continued to give myself chances as the day went on.   Had a great second shot on 12, set up an eagle, and even backed that up with a birdie on 13, which, to me, that's a great birdie on that hole because that's one of the tougher ones out here. 
But to finish on 18 with a nice six‑footer for birdie, it's just a positive moving on into tomorrow with a little momentum.

Q.   Right now you're sitting 1‑back coming into tomorrow.   What do you need to do to back up your 64? 
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I think just shoot under par.   That's always the goal to go out and stay within myself mentally.   If I can do that, I'm going to make some good swings.   When that happens, I give myself chances and make some putts.   So just stick to my game plan, just have some fun.   It's a beautiful time of year here at the Greenbrier, and I'm just excited to be playing on the weekend.

Q.   How nice is it‑‑ I think I read that you missed your last two cuts.   Now you've made the cut, and you're near the top of the leaderboard.   How nice is that? 
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Yeah, it's a bonus.   I've been playing really well this year.   I've made a lot of cuts, giving myself chances to have really good tournaments.   Just haven't been able to close it out.   To have another opportunity going into Sunday is a great experience.   It's something I can build on and carry on into the rest of the year. 
Again, a big part of it is just being excited about being here at the Greenbrier.   It's a really special place.   I love the outdoors, and this place just seems to have everything you could ever dream of doing.   I'm just excited to be here and playing well, thinking well, and just going to do that tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT