THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 29, 2014
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You said you had a lot of confidence, and that kind of carried over to today, didn't it?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Yeah, it did.   I actually didn't have the best warm‑up session.   And a lot of times when that happens, it forces me to focus a little bit more and just be committed to every shot.   
And I managed to make a good save on 1 that just kind of got the round going, and then from there on I had eight birdie chances on the front nine inside 15 feet.   I just ‑‑ didn't seem like I could miss a shot.   
And missed a few little short putts, but again turned it 4‑under.   And just all‑in‑all a great day.   A little hiccup on 17, but can't be too disappointed.  
   
 Q.   Why does this course match up with your game so well?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I like to play a fade.   That's what Jack was known for, and a lot of his course designs fit that type of golf shot.   So visually just appeals to me.   It's obviously in great condition.  
The greens are fast.   I love fast greens.   Putting is my strength, and that's what I rely on.   And when you get really fast greens, it allows me to kind of go out there and do what I do best.   
So this is one of my favorite events.   And shootaround like today on this golf course is special.  
   
 Q.   And your Alabama collegiate team won again last night.   You had to be watching that.   There had to be some karma or at least a good vibe today, right?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Definitely put me in a good mood, that's for sure.   I was hooting and hollering in front of the TV yesterday afternoon, cheering those guys on.   Really proud of the team.   Got some great guys on that team.   I actually spent a lot of time this spring practicing with them, and it's just a treat for me to kind of go back and relive a little bit of the college days.   
And I'm just so thrilled for Jay and Mike McGraw, and I can't wait to see them when I get home.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT