ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2014
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just your thoughts on the morning? 
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I don't know.   Played pretty normal, I guess.   A little bit longer than yesterday without the wind.   The course was kind of soft with the dew, and I just hit a few longer clubs into some holes, but, otherwise, the course was set‑up perfect.   Greens were great, obviously, in the morning.   I actually played pretty well.

Q.   Is there a significant difference condition‑wise to playing in the afternoon at 6‑under and today it's 1‑under? 
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   The biggest difference is the greens are better.   They roll a lot smoother and you can trust your line a little bit more.   In the afternoon they get bumpy and you get a few spike marks here and there.   You just have to deal with that, but the morning is always fun.   It's a little cooler, greens are better.

Q.   Do you like where you're sitting right now? 
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I do.   I'm playing really well right now.   I had probably five putts where it just lipped the edge of the hole.   I hit some really good putts.   Overall, hitting the ball pretty solid.   I just I got a few bad breaks where the ball ended up in the lip of the bunker and couldn't get it to the green.   All in all, I'm happy with the way I'm playing.   I feel like I'm getting better as the year goes on.

Q.   Easy to put Honda behind you last year?   How hungry are you to win again? 
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Yeah, I'm definitely hungry to win again.   It feels like it's been a long time since that win.   But the good thing is I feel like I'm a better golfer since that win, so I remember telling my wife and my caddie and my whole team that surrounds me that I'm going to win this year.   I feel it.   I'm just swinging better.   I'm putting a lot better than I have even in the last three years.   That, eventually, is all going to add up to four good rounds.

Q.   The birdie on 17 is that a good way to end it?   I know 17 was close. 
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Yeah, I finished really strongly after making a bad bogey on 16.   To birdie 17 the first two rounds is awesome.   I mean, that's a tough hole.   Hit a great putt there.   Then 18 I gave myself another great opportunity.   If I could just keep doing that and give myself good chances, the putts are going to drop and I'm going to have a good tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT