THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2013
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your hole‑in‑one.   
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Well, I just saw Schwartzel hit it to a foot, and it was‑‑ I think I had 211 to the front and I just tried to hit kind of a low draw 3‑iron, hit it absolutely perfect, landed on the green, and just‑‑ I mean, just tracked to the hole.   It was pretty perfect.  
   
 Q.   What was it playing, like 230?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   233 I think it was playing.  
   
 Q.   And we know you guys are all good, but how much of that is skill and how much of that is luck when you have a par‑3 that you're probably happy to walk off with a 3?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Well, the skill is hitting the shot that I wanted to hit.   I wanted to hit a low draw with a 3‑iron, just land it somewhere on the front of the green and have it chase back to the hole.   That was the image I had in my mind, the picture, so to speak.   And so I executed that really, really well.   The luck part of it is once it hit the green, anything can happen.   
   
 Q.   Did you see it go in?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I did, yeah.   We were kind of watching‑‑ it landed, and it landed pretty similar to Charl's, and a couple people behind me said, go in, disappear, disappear, and we saw it tracking, and it was kind of like that Golf Tee video game where the ball just kind of, boop, disappears, and then obviously the crowd confirmed it.   
   
 Q.   Overall just talk about your play today.   
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I really played pretty well.   I was hitting the ball real solid, hit a lot of fairways in regulation.   Actually, no, didn't hit‑‑ hit a lot of greens in regulation.   The greens just got tricky at the end, a lot of footprints and whatnot, and it was just tough for the ball to hold its line.   So I missed a few putts inside 10 feet today that really could have made the round great.   But got off to a great start, three birdies in a row on 11 through 13, and just kind of hung in from there, just played my game, and it's always nice to finish strong.  
   
 Q.   You'll have smooth greens tomorrow and a little softer conditions.   Are you looking forward to tomorrow?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Oh, absolutely, yeah.   I feel like I've been hitting the ball well for the last couple weeks, just haven't seen too much out of it, and it's nice to get off to a good start today, but tomorrow the greens are going to be perfect, so hopefully I can take advantage.  
   
 Q.   What's your mindset when you come out and before you tee off you're nine strokes back of somebody?   
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I look at it as I've got four days to catch him.   You can't do it all in one day.   Just got to go out tomorrow and play my game, try not to look at the leaderboards, and just go play golf.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT