THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2019
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Excellent start right out of the gate, three birdies in your first three holes and then 66 today.  Just get some comments.  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: Yeah, obviously a great start.  That's the way you want to start every round.  But didn't really do anything special.  I was making a lot of putts.  I was hitting my line with the putter, and you know, any time you do that and you read them right, a lot of balls are going to go in.  You know, I just stuck with my game plan.  I got a little squirrelly there kind of middle of the round but was able to find a swing thought that worked towards the back nine and made some really good swings, some great up-and-downs, made a lot of good par saves, so that keeps a round going.   
 Q.  What is it about this tournament that you obviously love so much?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: Well, I think it's that you don't have to go out and do anything special.  2-, 3-, 4-under rounds are just going to launch you right up the leaderboard.  To me that takes a little bit of the pressure away.   
And I think on top of that, it's nice being on Bermuda greens again coming from the West Coast, so I think just that fact alone, me being a good putter, I get excited about that.  It's showing this week, so I'm just going to keep it going.   
 Q.  Speaking of the West Coast, what a roll you're on really dating to that top 10 at the Desert Classic.  Talk about the last five starts you've had and how well you're playing right now.  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: Yeah, I've got a really great swing thought that I've been riding.  I know the work that my coach and I, Kyle Morris, have done over the course of the winter and towards the end of last year are starting to take effect, and my swing has gotten a lot more consistent.  With that comes the confidence and believing in my swing, so I'm hitting better golf shots.  On top of that, I'm also taking a few more risks so I'm going at pins that I don't normally go for, and thankfully I've been able to pull off the shot.  That just continues to build confidence in and of itself.  I'm really not limiting myself to anything.  I'm still staying within what I know I can control, but I'm going for it a little bit more, and having the confidence that I can do it, and it's paying off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT