SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2012
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You certainly had it moving for a while?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I had a great day.   I got off to kind of a rough start, got a little aggressive on the front nine but 7 and 9, got it back and just started make something putts.   I really wasn't playing all that aggressive today, just hitting it to the center of the green and hopefully hit a good putt.   I guess the Crimson Tide was flowing today.   
   
 Q.   You had a great roll on 13, 14 and a 15 including a lot of distance on those putts?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Like I said, I think I made two putts over 35 feet and that's really rare to happen on these greens.   And you know, it's just special.   It's fun to watch that ball disappear.   
   
 Q.   You have 142 feet in putts today; 90 feet is a really good day on TOUR; 142 feet worth of putts.   
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   That doesn't happen very often.   I think my buddies back in Alabama, they know me for a good putter and I'm sure they are not going to be very surprised.   
But you know, it was just a fun day and great to be out here in Hawai'i, Sony has been great and good start to the year.  
   
 Q.   10‑under par may not be enough to get to the winner's circle but confidence heading to the West Coast?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   Absolutely.   Any time you reach double digits under par out here on the PGA TOUR, something to be said.   Going to ride the wave, keep on going and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Did you look at the leaderboard at all?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I looked at it on 17 with the leaderboard right behind Billy Mayfair when he was hitting his first putt on that hole; hard not to notice it.   But I knew if I made birdie on the last, I would put myself in a really good position.   
Unfortunately the grain took the putt on the last hole and missed it.   But it was great being in the hunt.   My goal this year is to put myself in contention as many times as I can.   To do it on the first tournament is a little out of the ordinary for me.   But you know, it's a great feeling and a great tournament.   
  
 Q.   What happened on 17?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON:   I hit a really solid shot.   The wind kind of caught it.   I play a fade and the wind left‑to‑right just took the ball further, one bounce in the bunker and out of these bunkers you just can't get any spin.   So I had to putt from just off the green and barely missed it.   But, you know, that's a tough hole.   It's hard to hit that green in regulation, and I gave myself a chance on the last.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT