THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 16, 2011
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Assess the game today from start to finish.   
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: Felt really solid. I was a lot calmer today than I was yesterday. Just all in all felt really good. The putt on 15, the birdie putt, if I would have made that, who could tell where I would go from there. But I've been telling myself on every putt, right before I hit it, I say, it's just another putt, it's just another putt. There's no emotion to it or whatever, and I didn't tell myself that on that one putt.  
 And then 18 was just a mental error. It just happened.   
 All in all, a great day.  
  
  Q. You seemed to -- you don't seem disappointed at all. You've got to be inside.   
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: Maybe a little bit. I had a really good chance to win, but that's all part of the experience. I'm right in the same shoes that Webb Simpson was in when he first came out on TOUR. Look where he is now. You've got to go through the disappointing times in order to get to the happy times and the success. This is all part of the process.   
 In the big picture, it's not a bad thing. Hey, I get to play next year, and that's a huge accomplishment, check that one off the list, and you never know. I'm playing good. Next week I might have a chance again.  
  
  Q. I think you're playing great, really. If a few putts had gone in, you'd be right there.   
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: Yeah, I had some hang on the edge there for a little bit. But next week is a new week. Life goes on, and just happy to be out here playing on the PGA TOUR. That's all I can say.  
 I've been hitting the ball really well off the tee all day, a lot better than I did yesterday, which I was happy about. And then all I think about on those tee shots is just hit it in the middle, and for some reason that one tee shot I didn't, and it got me. I gave myself a good chance to make a par from how far out I was, so I figured I did it on 4 earlier in the week, do it again. But that's part of the game. That's the way it goes, and c'est la vie.  
  
  Q. What did you learn about yourself and your game with the 54-hole lead this week?  
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: I've learned how to keep my composure. I felt really calm today, which was awesome of the that was my goal, just go out and have fun, enjoy the golf course, enjoy the people, and I felt like I did that today, rattled off three birdies on the front side and said, all right, here we go, and just couldn't get another one to fall after that. Had a really good chance on 15. That was probably the turning point in terms of confidence, like okay, we've got a chance here.   
 But you know, it's all part of the learning experience. I'm right where Webb Simpson was when he first came out on TOUR. Look where he is now. Maybe in a couple years I'll be up where he is. I'm just excited. I get to play next year. That was a huge goal for me, and we'll see what happens.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT