MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL THOMPSON: I feel like I've gotten off to a good start.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: It had to be 30 feet or so. Probably played about six or seven feet of break and just hit it perfect. I mean --

 Q. How did it feel?
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: It was awesome. I was hoping I'd make at least one long putt today, but it was great that it came on 9, right in front of the clubhouse and a whole bunch of people around out there. It was an awesome feeling.

 Q. Can you talk about 16? 
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: It was tough. I was talking to my caddie, I could have played it five different ways. I played it about two balls of break, and for a five-footer that's a whole lot of break for that short of a putt, and just hit it a little bit too hard. It's going to happen out here. Everybody is going to miss putts like that. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: Yeah, I feel like I did that real well. I mean, I hit some bad shots today, like 13. I mean, it was great that I went for that and hit a terrible chip and then got up-and-down after I took a drop. So something like that shows me that I'm a lot calmer out there than I may feel or seem and that I have the confidence to go out and play well. It was great. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: 13, I went for the green in two and missed it left, long, and hit a really poor chip. I probably won't end up there again. 

 Q. How many times did you hear "Roll Tide" today?
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: I didn't even keep count. It was constant. Not as many as the last couple days, but there was still quite a bit.

 Q. Did you have any "aha" moments? 
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: Probably the putt on 9 made me realize, man, I can play it with these guys. I can make putts out here. 
 It made me feel like a pro when I made that putt. I raised my putter up when it was about to go in, and everybody was cheering and stuff. 
 You know, it was just a good feeling.

 Q. What does this do for your confidence?
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: Oh, this is great. I know my game well enough that I know I can play with these guys, it's just a matter of getting out of my own way. I just feel like I did that very well today. 

 Q. How was it playing with Ben?
 MICHAEL THOMPSON: Ben is a great guy. I got to play the par-3 with him yesterday. It seemed like he was as excited, if not more excited, than I was to be out here. I could even tell that today. He was fighting hard out there, wanting to do so well. He was cheering me on throughout the day and congratulating me when I hit good shots and stuff. It just made me feel welcome. 
 It's something special that I'm going to remember as an amateur playing in the Masters for the rest of my life.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT