THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 25, 2016
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under 65 to get things going on the opening day.  Your perspective, how did this one play out?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: I played really solid today.  I hit the ball in the center of the clubface which on a windy day like today, that's what you need to do in order to control your ball.  I really wasn't that confident going into the round.   
I had kind of been struggling with my ball striking, and worked with Todd and Mo Pickens got me thinking the right way right before the round.  So I went out there with no expectations.  Obviously I like this golf course, so I just went out and tried to play golf.  I think I did that pretty good.   
 Q.  How difficult is it to find those expectations on a difficult course with windy conditions?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: Everybody struggles with them.  Expectations are kind of a demon for golfers.  When we have them, it's hard to live up to them, because inside, we want to be perfect.  And we know that that's not possible, so we just have to go out and kind of manage what we got and go fight and hopefully make some putts and post a good score.   
 Q.  You mentioned you love this golf course, for good reason, a winner here three years ago.  What is it about this place that seemingly brings out the best in you?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: I just think it's pretty simple in the sense of, you know where you've got to hit it.  You have to hit fairways in order to give yourself a chance to go for the greens.  The rough isn't as thick this year as it has been in the past.  So there's a little bit of wiggle room there.   
But you've just got to hit solid golf shots and when the wind starts blowing, it's anybody's ballgame.  It really brings out the players who are the most patient and willing to continue to fight even through a few bogeys here or there.   
 Q.  5-under 65 in the first round, pretty good round.  Go through it?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: Nothing to complain about today.  I actually started off the day not 100 percent confident in kind of where my ball-striking was.  And so I didn't really know what to expect out there, which was probably a good thing because I had no expectations and I went out and I just tried to play solid golf.   
I started off the day, I hit a good one tee shot on 1, so it kind of calmed me down a little bit.  Kind of made a bad bogey on 2, but then got a good break on 3.  I hit it in a sprinkler head just over the green and I got a drop which allowed me to drop onto the fringe and then rolled in the eagle putt.   
So that kind of got me round started, and gave me some confidence going forward.  Really, just played solid.  I think I only hit eight fairways today, but with this wind, you get plenty of downwind holes, so the opportunity of not having touch a long club into greens is good.   
But I hit a lot of greens.  I think I hit 14 greens, and then if you putt well, that's going to produce a good score.  Really nothing to complain about.  Pretty solid.  Going to try to do it again tomorrow.   
 Q.  You think you guys have got the better end of the draw?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: I do, yeah, because the windiest part of the day was kind of mid-day right before lunch, like when I got here, probably blowing almost 20.  And it started to die down level as the round went on for me.  I think we got a good draw and then tomorrow morning, the only downside, it's going to be a little chilly and a little bit of wind, but it won't be too bad, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT