SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 22, 2015
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Michael, good round.  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: Yeah, thank you.   
 Q.  Seven birdies, an eagle, what a day.  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: Yeah, it was a good day.  My speed was on on the greens, which when you're doing that, you're going to make some putts, so it was fun.   
 Q.  Perfect conditions for golf, and you took advantage.  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: Yeah, this reminds me a lot of growing up in Tucson, Arizona, getting ready for the wintertime, no better place to play golf than out west.   
 Q.  Take us through the entire day and the eagle, as well, and just why you felt so good.  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: I started off good, hit two good shots on the 10th hole and made a good putt there.  11, I got myself out of position, hit it left, got stuck behind some trees and just kind of compounded the mistake, but got it right back on the next hole, made another birdie, and just started playing more solid golf after that, and then 16 was a great bonus, hit it in there to about 30 feet and made the putt.  Again, the putter was going.  I kind of slowed down a little bit when I made the turn, but I made two incredible putts on 7 and 8.  I made, I think, 7, I hit one that probably broke eight feet, and you know, when you make long putts, it's a bonus, so you've got to kind of take advantage of those and keep it rolling.   
 Q.  How much are the conditions contributing to the low scores?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: I mean, it definitely helps when there's no wind and real calm and sunny, and you don't really have to worry about anything.  The only thing that we really have to consider is the cold in the morning.  We're at elevation here, and so we need to take that into consideration during the day, but in the morning it kind of cancels out.  It definitely helps, but at the same time it helps when the greens are a little bit receptive and they're rolling perfect.  I mean --   
 Q.  Not too fast?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: No, I think here it's real tricky because everything breaks towards the Strip, and if you get kind of that downhill, I guess you would call it downgrain going towards the Strip, they can get really, really quick, and if you're not aware of that, you can be surprised very, very easily.   
 Q.  What do you think it's going to take given this low scoring?  
MICHAEL THOMPSON: I mean, I think out here if you -- if you get to 20-under in any golf tournament, I think you're giving yourself a chance to win.  That's my goal.  You know, I don't like to think about where I stand until the back nine on Sunday.  If you get yourself in contention there, then you've done your job.  And so that's my goal, and just keep making birdies, keep giving myself chances.  There's a lot of wedges out here, a lot of short irons, and you just have to take advantage of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT