FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 5, 2015
Michael Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Nice round today.  7-under par.  Made eight birdies.  Talk through it a little bit.  MICHAEL THOMPSON: Really played solid.  I didn't hit a whole lot of fairways, but I seemed to miss it in the right place.  We kind of figured in the practice round that they mowed the fairways either direction on either side and usually the left side of every fairway was mowed down grain, so if you missed it left, you were usually going to have a shot into the green. So, I missed it left I think a good bit.  On top of that, I must made a lot of putts, missed one short putt on I think 3. But other than that, I just stayed positive and kept going and felt like I was swinging it good and never gave up.   Q.  Does a delay at the beginning of the day affect you in any way?  MICHAEL THOMPSON: Yeah, it can throw off your timing a little bit, just waiting around, sitting around.  You have to keep moving.  You can get stiff and sore and just thrown out of balance, so to speak. But I felt like today I did pretty well.  I got here early and just had some breakfast and waited until about two hours before we, we first went off and went and did my normal warm-up and thankfully didn't have to wait too much longer and was just kind of hitting balls and staying last and whatnot. Over the years you learn how to deal with it, so especially this week, we seem to have fog every year, but it's all part of the game.   Q.  Talk about switching over to a new golf course tomorrow, how it will play differently and the benefits of getting off to a nice start.  MICHAEL THOMPSON: Yeah, no, the benefit is that I've got some room to work with.  The South Course is playing a lot harder than the North Course, just because it's so long.  The rough I think is about similar on both courses, but when you add distance with the rough, it just is going to make it a lot more difficult to hit greens in regulation, just because those 4- and 5-irons aren't going to come out of the rough the same as an 8-iron. So the goal is obviously hit more fairways tomorrow.  I'm still going to rely on my putting, that's my strength and that's when I'm going to focus on is just hitting good solid putts.  If I just stay patient, don't get too frustrated, then tomorrow should be good.  Obviously, I don't expect to shoot 65 again, but if I can just hang in there, then I'll be around for the weekend.   Q.  Did you guys think about picking up at all on the 18th?  MICHAEL THOMPSON: No, we wanted to get done.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT