INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2018
Al Durham
Evan Fitzner
Romeo Langford
Robert Phinisee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Marquette - 73, Indiana - 96
Q. Robert, what did you think when you found out you got the assignment against Markus Howard?  Why were you effective tonight?
ROBERT PHINISEE: Really, I just tried to limit him and his shots.  I just, everybody played pretty good team defense, so that really helped me.
Q. To kind of add on that for all of you guys, it seemed like you guys were pretty creative in what you tried to do on ball screen coverages, especially against Howard.  It looked like you were able to bring a couple guys at him, what was the game plan on the ball screens, and what was so effective when he tried to do that and you guys would rotate the ball?
EVAN FITZNER: Yeah, it's tough when they've got big guys that can shoot it, because it makes the on-ball coverage a little complicated.  But Coach did a good job of preparing us throughout the week, we guarded a lot of their actions, and I think it showed that we were ready for it.
Q. This is your first, I guess, big game in Assembly Hall.  Just how did you think the atmosphere had an impact on the game?
ROMEO LANGFORD: I thought the atmosphere was crazy, especially for my first experience on a ranked opponent.  I felt like that helped us a lot in our runs and in the beginning of the game to make a big run on Marquette.
Q. Al, we asked Rob this, but just in terms of drawing the Markus Howard assignment, you guys kind of shared it tonight.  What was the plan going in from your perspective in terms of attacking him defensively, and what do you think worked against him?
AL DURHAM: Going in, we knew how good Markus Howard was and we knew how capable was he was of scoring, so we prepped for that all week for, you know, just to get our minds right to make sure we're guarding him.  So that just translated to the game.  I feel like our coaches really set us up to execute the game plan.
Q. Al, where do you feel like your offensive game has changed?  Tonight, obviously able to show out against a ranked team, how do you feel like your offensive game has adjusted from your first year to now, and what was maybe working for you tonight?
AL DURHAM: My teammates were really a big part of that.  They were looking for me, giving me good looks.  But just ultimately my teammates pushing me and my coaches pushing me every day during the summer, off-season, during the season, just to continued to get reps and become a better player than I was last year.
Q. Evan, can you talk about the significance in beating the number four ranked team to decisively?
EVAN FITZNER: I mean, I think in a way it kind of puts us on the map a little bit.  I think we all as a group have a lot of confidence in what we can do.  But I think that we kind of showed everyone what we're capable of tonight, so I think that was the significance of it.
But we've got another game Sunday that we've got to prepare for and go in and just keep it going.
Q. Evan, you've seen a lot of battles out there.  You have Robert Phinisee playing his third game against a guy that could be an All-American.  What did you think of his defense tonight?
EVAN FITZNER: Yeah, it was unbelievable to see.  He's a really tough guy.  For a freshman to do something like that, draw one of the better players in the country, and for the most part do a really good job on him, it was pretty impressive.  I haven't really seen a freshman do something like that, so kudos to him.
Q. Evan, you came in here as a known shooter.  Hadn't really gotten to cut loose yet, but tonight you only missed one shot.  Great night by everybody, but how did it feel to get out there and let those shots fly?
EVAN FITZNER: Yeah, it feels good when you've got the crowd behind you, so credit to them, they were all excited.  So guys were finding me too, so it's really just my teammates finding me and knocking down the open shot.
Q. For any of you guys, it was a tight whistle tonight, 46 combined fouls, and yet for a team that's that efficient offensively, you took away a lot of what they wanted to do.  What about the overall game plan for any of you, defensively, do you feel worked tonight?
ROBERT PHINISEE: Really we just tried to play team defense, and everybody had an assignment before the game, so everybody knew what they were doing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT