NEW YORK RED BULLS MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 1, 2020
Carl Linder III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your overall thoughts on today?
CARL LINDNER III: I think the first half cost us a lot. I think we made a lot of mistake. There was a lot of tension, positioning and the connection to the play wasn't great. I think they attacked and we field them with mistakes.
The second half, I think we have to focus on that and build on that in the coming weeks.
Q. What did you think of the performances by each of the forwards?
CARL LINDNER III: Brandon made an assist and J端rgen scored his first goal today. I think it's very good. That's the competition we want and that's good for us moving forward, being able to score two goals away and to create some opportunities is a positive.
Q. How do you evaluate this match, just because it's so early, and you've had guys in and out, visa stuff going on. Obviously it's probably too early to read too much into this result?
CARL LINDNER III: Of course, we have to see the big picture. Like I always say, that's a new group and the guys have to understand each other and work with each other, and they have to also have this experience together to grow as a team.
So today is an experience for us. We are going to learn from that. There is some things we definitely need to correct and to improve, but there is also some good things. I mentioned the second half, I think we showed more structure and a dynamic team on the ball, trying to be proactive and create opportunities. I think that's what we have to remember from the game, but also be able to assess the mistakes is.
Q. The game seemed to change when you put in Kekuta and Andrew. Any reason you didn't make those changes any sooner?
CARL LINDNER III: I think you think the game changed a lot when they came in -- I think the game changed a lot when we scored the first goal. I think the game changed a lot from that point. We had a bit more momentum and we were able to have a bit more the ball. It's all about the balance on the team. I think we wanted to see an idea develop for us, and I think everybody did his job when he came off the bench.
I think J端rgen showed a lot, but also having Andrew on his first -- down the left side and kick on the right side was important for us to keep pushing.
Q. How did you handle the Red Bulls press and their new formation, the 4-2-2?
CARL LINDNER III: The first half we struggled a bit more. We knew they were going to come and press for their first home game.
I think we were under a lot of pressure. We made a lot of mistakes. We, at times, should have maybe play on the second nine a bit more and use our front line, as well. That's what I said; I think they feed off our mistakes the first half and that's how we paid with these two goals early in the game.
Q. What did you say in the half, they came out with different intensity the second half?
CARL LINDNER III: I said we have to keep our heads up. We cannot give up. We were still in the game. 2-0, 45 minutes to go, you can still get a result. We knew that -- we adjusted a little bit of positioning. We built up off a 3-4-3 in the second half. I think we had more balance, also, in the midfield with Frankie next to Haris, and that give us more position, more control, but also in transition, a bit more presence.
So the guys wanted to do something better in the second half. They knew that the first half we were a bit off, and they wanted to prove a point, and I think, again, like when you score two goals in the Red Bulls arena, you should get a point, at least going back home, but today is of course disappointing for everyone.
Q. What does the edition of J端rgen mean to your clubs overall and what how much of a boost will he be in terms of the attacking play for you guys?
CARL LINDNER III: We had a lot of additions, J端rgen is one of them. I think he brings his quality and experience up front. He's able to hold up the plays, able to drop in between the lines, but also offer a presence in the air and a presence in the box. So we are looking forward to use all of our attacking pieces to create more opportunities and get some results.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT