ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 25, 2018
Mi-Hyang Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOM BENBOW: Welcome, Mi-Hyang, to the Aberdeen Standard Investments Ladies Scottish Open, and welcome back as defending champion.  You're a two-time LPGA champion, most notably winning here last year.  You're 54 in the world and returns to Scotland as our defending champ.
Tell us what it feels like to be back here in Scotland with the trophy.
MI-HYANG LEE: First of all, I just love to be back to here and really look forward to play this week.  But feels a lot different, like weather's so much different.  Feels like last year was raining, strong wind and such cold but this week just come, everything is good.
Yeah, just actually I miss my clothing because I have to find short pants and clothing.  Feels everything is the same, and I love links course, so I love that.
TOM BENBOW: Tell us a little bit about your preparation, because I know your clubs went missing.
MI-HYANG LEE: Right.  Same as last year but I think I got my golf clubs this morning and I got my clothing this morning.  I rent the club from Barry, the Callaway Tour rep.  He brought his own golf club because he wants to play maybe tomorrow.  Everything is good for me.  His club is perfect fit for me.  Driver distance is the same as mine.  So I played 18 holes with his clubs yesterday and I played nine holes this morning with my club, but nothing changed, so it was really good.
TOM BENBOW: Did you say you lost your clubs last year?
MI-HYANG LEE: Right.
TOM BENBOW: Could it be a good luck omen for things ahead.
MI-HYANG LEE: Yeah, the players told me, yeah, you can win again.  Yeah, hopefully just I think I just have luck with that.
TOM BENBOW: How do you like coming back to this part of the world, Scotland?  Is there anything you like about coming back here, the food, the weather, the people.
MI-HYANG LEE: Actually just a little hard to understand English accent.  Just a little hard.  Just every people is nice and a lot of people told me about defending champ and congrats and good luck to me.
Q. The final round last year, the weather was miserable.  Can you recall how you felt that day?  Were the conditions as tough as you've played?
MI-HYANG LEE: It was tough.  Just I can't remember hole No. 12 was -- wind faced us, I think maybe 30 yards or 40 yards a club from normal distance.  But here is like only at least maybe 15 yards.  Yesterday I add only 15 yards.  That's the most add the club.
Yeah, it was hard last year, final round.
Q. And Korean players are used to winning majors, but when you went home as the Scottish champion, did that resonate?  Were people pleased for you to be a winner in Scotland?
MI-HYANG LEE: Yeah, of course.  I think they think about it pretty much the same as the British Open because we still play link course with strong wind.  Scotland is the Home of Golf, so they love to watch The Scottish Open in Korea, also.
Q. It's a very strong field this year.  How confident are you about successfully defending your title?
MI-HYANG LEE: Actually my golf is not as good as last year now.  I took three weeks off before this event.  So that's why I just want to restart from this tournament because I have such great memories from this tournament.
Actually my goals is restart and refresh from this tournament.
Q. Are you putting less pressure on yourself?
MI-HYANG LEE: Trying don't get any pressure but different new challenge.
Q. This golf course is different to last year which was very flat.  There are some elevation changes.  Can you talk about the different test?
MI-HYANG LEE: Yeah, when I came here Sunday morning, me and my caddie just walked the golf course a little bit.  He said it's not a lot different elevation because last year, everything is flatter and greens are flat.  But here, some holes I can't see the green and some holes just way up or way down.  So feels like more mountain course.
Q. When you won last year, you finished before the rest of the field.  Can you remember how happy you felt at that point?  Was that the happiest you felt in your life?  How good did you feel, because you finished before the leaders finished.
MI-HYANG LEE: Yeah, I didn't see the leaderboard, so we didn't know we won.  We didn't know that Karrie made double-bogey on No. 17.  So actually just we try to go back, going to British, and take a shuttle.
Yeah, it was happy for sure but just we were nervous, winning.
Q. Did you say you were on your way out of the golf course, thinking you weren't going to win?  You were going to take a shuttle?
MI-HYANG LEE: Yes, so after I finished hole No. 18, after the scoring, just we tried back, to catch the shuttle.
Q. Who told you to come back?
MI-HYANG LEE: Just my caddie said I'm almost -- caddie said he thought it might be tied score, the lead or just maybe one back behind from Karrie.
Q. Who did you borrow clubs from?
MI-HYANG LEE: Barry, the Callaway rep.  He had his own golf clubs for playing golf this week.
Q. Did you use the same airline?
MI-HYANG LEE: No.  Different.  Still.  Still, yeah.
Q. So still --
MI-HYANG LEE: And this year, I took business class, but still.
Q. Next year, is there another airline next year?
MI-HYANG LEE: Maybe call me next year, I think that would be better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT