NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 6, 2006
Ty Conklin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. The circumstances, do you think you can help this team win a Stanley Cup?   
 TY CONKLIN:  Well, the way Roli has been playing, it's really unfortunate what happened.  But, you know on the flip it is a good opportunity for whoever plays.   
 I think it's something that, well, circumstances aren't perfect.  We just both want an opportunity.   
  Q.  Are you confident that if you get the call, you'll be ready?   
 TY CONKLIN:  Yeah, I am.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 TY CONKLIN:  It's just confidence in yourself.  You work all your life to get in this position, and like I said, while the circumstances are not exactly what we wanted, it is an opportunity and that's what you want.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 TY CONKLIN:  Well, I don't know if those are the exact thoughts that went through my mind, but, you know, I had some difficult times this year obviously.  But you know, things can turn around quick and it can turn around really quick with this opportunity and this situation.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 TY CONKLIN:  There's nothing I can do about it anymore.  It was a bad break.  It wasn't the best play, but it happens.  Sitting here dwelling on it is not going to help me any or the team or anybody.   
  Q.  Do you believe the team supports you?   
 TY CONKLIN:  I do, definitely.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 TY CONKLIN:  I don't know if I can give you a bunch of reasons, but I think we all have confidence in each other.  You know, I've played here for a while, so, you know, I've played with these guys for a while.  Nothing leads me to believe that they don't have any confidence.   
  Q.  As much as the game ended on that note, what happened in front of you, the attack shots, did you feel confident about the shots, just being able to jump in there that cold?   
 TY CONKLIN:  Yeah, as good as you can feel, five minutes left in the third period.  Obviously it's one of those things where you try to get your heart rate under 200 and try to get focused as you can.  It's a difficult situation.  I felt all right I guess, yeah.   
  Q.  You relish these sort of opportunities?   
 TY CONKLIN:  Yeah, you only get a certain number of opportunities, and you want to take advantage of all of them.  And this is another one.  You know, whoever plays, it's a great opportunity for the guy, and I think whoever plays is going to play well.  You know, I think everybody's confident with both of us and that both of us can win four games here.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).  Do you celebrate that process?   
 TY CONKLIN:  Well, I think the situation and, you know, the fact that it is the Stanley Cup Finals, is going to make it really easy to get up for games, obviously.  I'm sure things will be fast right away.   
 But, you know, you get a little confidence, and confidence goes a long way.  You make a couple good saves, you start feeling good about yourself, and, you know, you can play like you've been playing all year.  You play like you've been on top of your game all year.   
  Q.  Do you look at this as a second chance -- (inaudible).   
 TY CONKLIN:  Yeah, I don't know about second chance, I think you look at it as an opportunity.  Like I said, and that's what you want, and that's what you want is an opportunity, and one has presented itself.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 TY CONKLIN:  It's tough, it's tough to get that in practice.  But, you know, obviously game situation is totally different than practice.  You can take a million shots in practice, it's not going to resemble the speed of the game and the intensity of the game.  You know, those are things that you can get back into and get caught up to pretty quickly.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 TY CONKLIN:  Yeah, I wish the puck would have gone to the net -- yeah, that's what I wish.  Obviously, you know, that's not how I wanted things to happen.  But I'm not trying to wish it away.   
 I'm not going to go back over it.  There's plenty of time in the summer to go back over it and kick yourself.  I don't think now is the time.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 TY CONKLIN:  No, I didn't say anything.  I just tried to give him the puck.  He was a little closer to me than I thought he was.   
  Q.  Has Roloson talked to you at all?   
 TY CONKLIN:  Have I talked to Roli?  Yeah.   
  Q.  What did he have to say to you?   
 TY CONKLIN:  We all feel bad for him.  As well as he's played, he's been outstanding.  It's really unfortunate.  You'd love to see the guy finish what he started here in the playoffs.  But that's not the situation anymore.   
 You know, he's going to give us hints on shooter's tendencies and on things that he picks up in the game, and we're going to take it as well as we can.   
  Q.  Did he have any advise going forward?   
 TY CONKLIN:  Just stay confident, play well.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 TY CONKLIN:  Just try to get back in, kind of the rhythm that you're used to as far as game day preparation.  You know, try to go to each game and get back up like you're playing, I think that's one way you can stay sharp, and stay loose is to, you know, prepare like that.   
  Q.  Do you think last night's play, will that define you as a player (inaudible) --   
 TY CONKLIN:  Yeah, I guess it -- it's Game 1 of the Stanley Cup Finals.  This isn't game 7.  Let's not turn that play into some monumental thing.   
 You know, it's a play, obviously I wish, you know -- maybe I would feel better about it if it was a one-timer from the hash marks or something.  But, the puck went in, we lost a game.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 TY CONKLIN:  I think so.  But, you know, certainly it's been a bit of a rocky season, but it is a chance to kind of finish what we had hoped, or the way we looked at the season started, it was the two of us.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT