NL DIVISION SERIES: NATIONALS VS DODGERS
October 4, 2019
Trea Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Nationals - 4, Dodgers - 2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What was your first thought when you saw Max either going to the bullpen or warming up in the bullpen and coming into the game? Did you have any idea that was a possibility?  
TREA TURNER: Yeah, I heard earlier in the game that it was a possibility to kind of bridge the gap. And so when Doolittle came in, I thought that Hudson was going to go two and I kind of forgot. But I saw Max run out there, and pretty unbelievable, dominated and did exactly what we needed.   
 Q.  You had as good a look at Stras's stuff as anybody today. What did he have, what did it compare to that you've seen from him before?  
TREA TURNER: Yeah, everything. I feel like he does it quite often, but I guess this was a little bit bigger stage. But just three pitches, stuff moving all over the place, using all of them in every count and it's tough. I think that's why Buehler was good yesterday, using the off speed when he was behind in the count and Strasburg does that as well. He makes it tough on those guys and I felt like he worked ahead and put the pressure on.   
 Q.  I know there's all kinds of secrets in the game, but were there things Kershaw was doing that you were able to pick up on as far as what might be coming?  
TREA TURNER: No.   
 Q.  Can you put into words just how key it was to get this game and not go home 0-2.  
TREA TURNER: I don't know, everyone always asks that. For me it's you're either in an elimination game or you got time. So I'm a big focus on what's in front of you. If we lost today we still got a chance and that's all that I care about. I think that our team's kind of taken on that role as well, is we start off terrible, doesn't mean we're out, we are here now. So until there's an elimination game I don't think it's a must-win.   
 Q.  Dave said earlier in the day when he was interviewed that he hoped the team would have more fun, be more like it was during the regular season. He even said even a little less tight than in Game 1. Did you have any sense of that and how did that happen?  
TREA TURNER: Yeah, I think I said that yesterday in a lot of my interviews after the game, was just trying too hard. Not a bad thing to be doing in the playoffs. Everybody wants to win, everybody wants to contribute. But just have fun, enjoy each other and kind of look around and embrace where you're at. Obviously runs on the board helps with that and we put up some runs early and I think we obviously had a little bit more fun winning today. But going forward it's just to have fun, enjoy each other and keep battling.   
 Q.  I know it's part of your game generally, but how much pressure do you think you put on them with your speed, your bunting, all those things?  
TREA TURNER: Yeah, I try to take a lot of pride in that. Run the bases well. When Soto was up in that inning, and I think it's first and second, make the pitcher worry about me just in case he leaves a pitch to Soto. If the base is there, steal it. If not, put the pressure on. I think situations are different, I try to calculate all that. But take pride in it and that's why I want to be on base, I think I put that pressure on them.   
 Q.  Using starting pitchers this much and bringing them back like that, you don't see it much in the Major Leagues. You played college ball. Is this at all like you've heard about the college World Series rest and people coming back super quick -- in other words what is this like to use your starting staff this much?  
TREA TURNER: I don't know. For me it's you pitch your best guys to win. Obviously Max is in that category for us and in the elimination game Strasburg was in that category as well. It was a side day for him -- I'm not a pitcher so I don't know how much effort that takes or whatnot -- but it was huge. I think that if -- I don't necessarily expect him to do that every game or every time he has bullpen day, but it was big today and we needed it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT