PENN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 11, 2008
Joe Tiller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, let's go ahead and get started here. We're in week 11 of Purdue football of them Boilermakers will be heading out on the road for the final time this season to Iowa City to take on Iowa. Let's go ahead to the phones. 

 Q. Hi, Joe. You said after the Michigan State game that you thought the foundation for this season was laid in the spring. When you were in the spring, or exiting the spring, were you overly concerned with what you saw and what you were enduring at that time?
 JOE TILLER: Well we were concerned. I don't know if we were overly concerned, in the sense that you are optimistic that everything will work out. But we were concerned. 
 You know, I can still recall, as you may all know or may not, but I have an interview, one-on-one interview with every player on our squad after spring practice. And I was concerned coming out of those one-on-one interviews that we weren't physically where we needed to be. But you're also optimistic that we'll make the ground up over the summer. The problem was we got off to a slow start in the winter and the spring. 
 I think of a guy -- not just on the offensive line. I think of a guy like Des Tardy that had shoulder surgery and couldn't be in the weight room all winter long. Anyway, we had a number of those guys. 
 So you're always optimistic that things will work out, but as it's turned out, it hasn't.

 Q. Joe, in fall camp then did you become -- you know, after you saw, you know, some of the offensive linemen come back, did you start to worry about, you know, this season could be a struggle at that time?
 JOE TILLER: Yeah, I did. And I think I made the comment in here, and I know I made the comment to Coach Hope that, you know, by the middle of the season we have a chance to be a pretty good offensive line. And the reason I made that comment was because I knew we had a lot of ground to make up. 
 I didn't anticipate, however, that Sean Sester wouldn't be able to really play for us. I didn't anticipate Garret Miller going out there and playing pretty well and then getting injured. I didn't anticipate Eric Hedstrom reinjuring his knee that he had surgery on that previous winter. So, you know, I didn't anticipate the injuries that really, in my opinion, prevented us from making the progress that we could have made.

 Q. So would you say the bulk of this offense's struggles have been due to that lack of continuity in the offensive line; is that fair?
 JOE TILLER: I think that. But other places too. 
 Like I said, I mentioned Des Tardy who missed all of spring. Keith Smith missed a lot of it. So, you know, it wasn't just in the offensive line. But certainly the majority of the absentees were in the O-Line on the offensive side of the ball.

 Q. Do you feel that the defense has played well enough as a whole this season for you to have had a winning season?
 JOE TILLER: At times they have, but not every Saturday out. But certainly they've played more representative, if you will, than the offense has.

 Q. So at this stage with just two games left, would you say the team has underachieved or given all the circumstances, you know, is the record, you know, I guess justified?
 JOE TILLER: I think they've hung in there amazingly well. 
 I think that a lot of teams that would have dealt with what we dealt with probably would have thrown the towel in a month ago, and I think these guys have stayed the course. 
 You know, we've been out of sync offensively. We haven't been functioning the way we wanted to at any time, in my opinion, this season have we ever put the offense totally together. So, you know, from that point of view -- I can't remember your question.

 Q. I was just asking if you thought the team had underachieved this season or given all the circumstances --
 JOE TILLER: No, I don't think they've underachieved, but I don't think they've overachieved either. If anything, we maybe over achieved a little bit on defense because of, you know, our linebacker situation. Gee whiz, it's well documented, we don't have to go down that road again about our linebacker situation.

 Q. The last thing I have: Do you believe one game can make or break a season? And I'm referring to, say, the Oregon game this year and your previous losing season at Purdue, I think was a double overtime loss fairly early in the season to Minnesota. 
 JOE TILLER: I don't think so. But, you know, I'm not inside young peoples' heads as much as I'd like to be and try to be. But I don't think so. 
 I think that, you know, over the course of 12 games that, you know, you'll have the opportunity to rebound. And I don't think one game is a make-or-break type game. But, like I said, I'm not -- you know, sometimes young people, because they are very, very shortsighted they tend to think that, you know, one devastating loss, the world's going to stop turning when it simply isn't true.

 Q. You don't necessarily agree that, you know, had you won that Oregon game things would have been all that different this year?
 JOE TILLER: Well I think it would have been better just from a point of view that, you know, you put the effort out there and you're rewarded for it. But, you know, I don't think overall it would have been that significant. Maybe it would have been because, you know, we could have gotten off 3-0 and maybe then going up to South Bend maybe that would have propelled us into a win. 
 But I can tell you still comes down to performance. It really doesn't matter if you show up a particular spot whether it's on the road or in your own stadium and you don't play well, it's really irrelevant.

 Q. Thanks a lot, Joe. 
 JOE TILLER: You're welcome.

 Q. Coach, what could there have been done differently from fall camp to now? Is there anything there that you would have said, if we could have done that differently, you know, something would have been different in such a respect?
 JOE TILLER: I think the only thing that we could have done differently would have been not to have moved Justin Siller, left him at quarterback. Maybe if we had done that, maybe at this stage in the season he'd be a little bit further advanced than he is. But outside of that, I don't see -- I mean, we tried lot of different combinations. You know, our offensive line has been, you know, a dial-a-line so to speak, each week. So you know you can't control those things. 
 The injury to Jaycen Taylor before the season ever started, you can't control that. You know -- for instance, I'm going to give you an illustration. 
 Warner, Taylor, and Adams -- we didn't get a down out of any of those three guys; not one down out of them. And those three guys were our top three returning players on our punt team a year ago. So there's just maybe a microcosm. Maybe that's just a small look at the season in whole, as a whole.

 Q. How taxing has this season been on you in terms of, you know, the previous seasons that you've had to endure? I mean, how difficult has this one been and how frustrating?
 JOE TILLER: It's been really difficult and frustrating. Those are two really good words. You know, we're not used to this. We say we don't ever want to get used to it, but all that, as we well know, is a moot point.
 But it's been very challenging each week to, you know, encourage our team and try to correct them and try to get them to improve and try to get them to, you know, be a better football team the following week; that's been our challenge week in and week out. And, you know, at times it's been frustrating. 
 It's really been frustrating I think more so in the last three weeks, or four weeks since we've lost, you know, both the quarterbacks we've been playing with. 
 Justin, I do like a lot of the things that he does, and I think that Coach Hope will leave him at quarterback. I made this comment the other day, you know, we moved him to running back out of necessity. I'm not going go through the whys of that again; that's been well documented. We moved him there out of necessity. And I would have -- if everything would have remained perfect, I would have started him at running back in the spring if I were the coach here. 
 Everything has changed. Now if I were the coach here, I'd start him at quarterback in the spring. That won't be my call, that will be Danny Hope's call, but I suspect that's the direction that we'll go. 
 He has upside at the position. He's very crude as a quarterback, but he's a very bright young man. And I think that he has the qualities it takes to be successful in the position. And I think he will bring something to the field that no quarterback has had since we've been -- maybe Brandon Kirsch, you know, had a little bit of that ability to create outside the system. But, you know, he'll bring something to the field that no quarterback's been able to deliver since we've been here.

 Q. You talked last week about teams having tape on Siller, so, you know, that's always -- where Michigan didn't. Talking to some of the Michigan state guys, they said well we knew he would run this way and cut back right, so they kind of knew his tendencies right away. Was that kind of what you were hinting at?
 JOE TILLER: Yeah. The honeymoon only lasted one week. Of course, in life, that's about all it lasts. (Laughter.) Except for Brian. He's still on one.

 Q. I have to ask you about two of the "quote" defining moments that we've been writing about, both in 2004. First of all, what do you remember about Stubblefield's 97-yard touchdown at Notre Dame?
 JOE TILLER: I remember the defensive back slipped and fell down, that really helped. But, you know, it was a great throw and catch. And, you know, Stubby got it in the end zone. It was exciting because of certainly the length of the play and at the moment in the game I think that it was almost the defining play of the game, if you will.

 Q. Obviously that wasn't the only reason you guys lost the game, but that's obviously what people tend to remember?
 JOE TILLER: Sure. I tend to remember the dropped interception before the fumble. Because I think if we had not dropped an interception that hit us in the belly button we would have never been in that predicament at all. 
 And if we had to replay it all, we would do the same thing. Because, once again, those of you that have heard me talk before know that you learn early in your career that when it's critical down you put the ball in your best player's hands. So who's hands would you rather have it be in than Kyle Orton's in that situation? 
 So I think first and foremost if we hadn't dropped a sure interception, we would have never been in that predicament. And, number two, if we were in the predicament we would put the ball in his hands once again.

 Q. We asked you on Sunday about Colton McKey, anything else come to light about that?
 JOE TILLER: Colton McKey has reinjured his knee and it looks like it's going to require surgery to repair it. It's the same knee injured coming out of high school. And certainly he won't be with us these last two games. 
 Today is a day they make the decision on whether or not they're going to have surgery. They're going to have surgery, perform surgery, but it's a matter of when they're going to do it. So today was supposed to be decision day as to when it was going to occur. But he's finished for this year.

 Q. (Question regarding expectations on the quarterback situation.)
JOE TILLER: Well I'm the most optimistic I've been only because Curtis made a point of coming to see me yesterday and saying, hey, Coach, I threw 50 balls today, and, you know, I'm picking up my, you know, number of passes I'm throwing. And I said, How are you doing. He said, I'm little sore right now but it's nothing like it's been. So to me that is a dash of hope that he'll be ready to play. 
 I made a comment to our coaches this morning -- I probably shouldn't say this, but I say things at these things I shouldn't say all the time -- what I'd really like in a perfect scenario this week would be for Curtis to get healthy enough to execute the two-minute game. 
 You know, Justin and his defense is not prepared to run the two-minute game. We haven't had time to practice it with him. You make the calls yourself. 
 I think perhaps Curtis Painter's best moment as a Purdue quarterback was last year in that Motor City Bowl when he took the ball down the field, with the exception of the first call, all the rest of the calls were his. And that's what you need in your quarterback during a two-minute game. 
 And Justin isn't prepared to do that. It's not that he can't do it in the future, it's just how much are you going to heap on this guy now and what are you going to expect him to do, you know, and give the guy a chance. 
 So it would be nice if at least we had Curtis so that if we were in a two-minute situation that we could put Curtis in there and let him call the offense and direct the offense from that point of view.

 Q. Last thing I wanted to ask you about: We ask you this around this time of year every year. You aren't going to get to coach these guys, true freshmen who are red shirting. Is anybody standing out that you think might be able to help Purdue next year?
 JOE TILLER: Yeah. I like Roberts, the safety. I think he's a big-time player. If we didn't have the safeties that we had this year -- Tom, you want to take this mike or did you quit? We were hoping you quit. I meant we were hoping you'd take the mike. Anyway, if we didn't have the safeties we have right now, we would have definitely played him this year. 
 We were talking about him as a staff. Jackson the linebacker has really improved. Nnamdi the linebacker has improved; he's undersized. But, you know, those guys are going to be future players down the road. Maci's going to be a player here. You know, fortunately we didn't have to play him this year, that's good for him. That lets him mature and grow for another year. You know, both the defensive tackles, Brooks and Short are both good looking prospects, and they haven't played. Speaking of just the guys that haven't played like you said. We really like Kevin Green, but he's played. And I might be missing somebody but that's who we like defensively. 
 Offensively we really like Brewer. I told our coaches this morning, I said we got to be -- you know, I'm not going to be here so maybe I shouldn't worry about this stuff, but I said, you know, we need to be sensible about Brewer. Because with Hedstrom's situation we're saying, well if Hedstrom can't play again, Zwilling's playing, but if something were to happen to the other guard and, you know, we had to make a move, you know, and slide Benton to guard because he's played guard, your know, we could always put Brewer at center. I said we ain't putting Brewer at center the last two games of the year. I mean gee whiz this is cut off time for sure. This is where you should be red shirting kids. But he is a good looking kid. 
 Peter Drey is. I think we rung the bell on all three freshmen linemen. Kelly is playing, of course, out of necessity. He played better this Saturday than he did -- we didn't play real well on the offensive line but when Kelly went in there Dennis did some good things. So we like all three of those offensive linemen. 
 Ralph Bolden we like, but we're playing. I'm trying to think of who else we're not playing on the offensive side of the ball. Tommy Thomas is a guy that we like. As a matter of fact, you know, my suggestion to the staff last week was Tommy might be a kid we want to move to offense. He's gained eight or nine pounds since he's been here. He has natural ball skills. He played on the state championship -- did they win it or lose the state championship? Basketball. I think they won it too. Anyway, he was a starter on that team. And he has soft hands, good eye-hand coordination. You know we're playing him at safety but, you know, when the ball goes out there he tracks the ball really well. 
 I told Danny, He is a guy you might want to move to offense because I think he has natural skills at that position. And he is a big kid. I mean, he's a 6'1" or 6'2" guy and now he is up over 190, so he's probably going to be a 200-pound plus good looking receiver. 
 Anyway, those are some of the guys that we like. I probably missed somebody, but those are the guys we like.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JOE TILLER: I don't think there's -- I agree with you, I don't think there are any set tendencies in one game. Maybe down the road, but I think just an awareness, a greater awareness on their part that he would pull the ball down and run was probably what their player was referencing.

 Q. A couple linebackers that played pretty well for you as freshmen; outside of talent, what do you see in them?
 JOE TILLER: I think Chris is an instinctive guy, and I think he has a good feel for the game. You know, now that he's settled down and, you know, his heart isn't racing 300 beats per minutes, you know, he just sees things better. 
 I mean, at Michigan State he made a lot more tackles than he had. He accelerated one time, came underneath the block and accelerated, went out on the edge and tackled Ringer for maybe a no-gain or maybe a one-yard gain. And, gee whiz, a month ago our coaches were saying, I think he might be too stiff or too slow to play in there. He sure didn't look like it Saturday. 
 But he is a lot more comfortable in what he is doing today. I think this guy is an instinctive guy and I think he's going to be a very good player. He has a great temperament. He is a tough guy. He likes the physical part of the game. So he has a lot of the good traits you are looking for particularly in a back.

 Q. What role or how important has the quarterback situation been in Iowa?
 JOE TILLER: I think it's been significant. You know, these are a couple of guys that we recruited, both of them, for a period of time. Christensen actually wanted to commit to Purdue and we didn't offer at that very time, and then he went to a camp at Iowa and they offered. And we thought for awhile that could have been a strategic mistake on our part because he played a very active role, as did his father, in helping them recruit that class that year. I think it was the same year. But, you know, they had -- didn't they have the highest rated class that year or damn close to it, I mean darn close to it? But, you know, he's a guy that started and played against us last year. He started and started the season. Stanzi's a guy that came to our camp. You know, a guy out of Ohio that we liked. 
 I told Danny Hope, I said, You know, Guys, good luck to you; how you sort this stuff out, you know, is I guess just, you know, a pig in the poke or a poke in the pig or whatever it is. I don't know what that is. Whatever that is. 
 But, you know, it's a very inexact science. Because, you know, what's happened to us here -- and I'm not saying we'd have gotten any of these guys. Chase Daniels was here you know and we didn't offer Chase that very day he was here because the next week we had three guys coming in that rivals had rated higher; they had more stars. So, of course, we didn't offer because we had more guys with more stars that rivals had stars behind their names coming in next week. And anyway Stanzi was one of those guys too. We liked most of the things he did. But we -- I liken him a little bit to the Lancaster kid at West Lafayette; knew how to win games. I like that about him. But we waited on another four-star guy, you know, two weeks later, maybe five-star guy, I don't know, but anyway back to your question. 
 I think since they really settled in on him they've become a more proficient, efficient football team.

 Q. (No microphone.) 
 JOE TILLER: Well I think he probably doesn't make the big mistake. A lot of times it's-- winning a game is not losing a game.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JOE TILLER: I think Green's the most physical back in the league. I think he is more physical than Wells. I think he's more physical than Ringer. I think he is the most physical. 
 You know, we had to vote on All Big Ten this morning and we put him down as well as our guy Sheets as the best running backs in the league. Now the league has some good running backs I'm not sure that justifies but you can only vote for two. Besides going for our guy, with what would we look like without him, we went for Green because watching as much tape as we've watched on him now, he's been a huge, huge difference in their team. A huge difference.

 Q. (No microphone.) 
 JOE TILLER: They're a blue collar type defense; in structure anyway. You know, they don't try to beat you with x's and o's and try to out scheme you. They are very, very fundamentally sound. And they're very, very physical. They take a lot of pride on being physical, and on both sides of the ball. You know, they're back to being that type of an Iowa team. They didn't look quite that way a year ago, but they're back to looking exactly like the old Iowa to us.

 Q. (Question about Hunter.) 
 JOE TILLER: He's just -- you know, now he's been playing the game, and he's more use to the position. Last year was his first year at the position. So the difference between him this year and last year is experience. He's no faster this year than he was last year. He's not much stronger, maybe five pounds heavier on the bench press is all. So, you know, what's it? It's experience, second year at the position. He just sees things that much quicker than he did a year ago, which comes with experience.

 Q. You mentioned some of the challenges you've had this year other than injuries, motivating the team and all those; is this the most challenging or toughest year for you since you've been here?
 JOE TILLER: Since I've been at Purdue? Yep. Well, it's different. You know, what was that, three years ago or four years ago, or, no, about four years I think, three years ago, when we didn't go to the bowl game? That team was bigger handful to manage. You know what I mean, from a management point of view that was a very, very challenging team to manage because of the personalities on the team, and how the personalities fractured the team. And, you know, to hold that all together, that was the biggest challenge that year. 
 This year it's trying to hold it all together with Band-Aids. But a great group of kids. Good, good kids to be around and the like. So it's a much different -- from a coaching perspective -- a much different management problem or challenge than that one was. 
 That team was very challenging, like I say, from a mental and emotional point of view. This one's very challenging from a physical point of view.

 Q. (Question about the hardest part about being a head coach.)
 JOE TILLER: Thank you. I can always count on you coming through for me. Gee whiz, don't you ever stop coming to these press conferences. 
 I think the most difficult part of the job has become, I don't think it's always been this way, but I think the most difficult part of the job today is managing expectations. I say that not just for me or Purdue, for all of college sport. I mean, who in college sport or what program in college sport doesn't expect you to win every game any more?
 It used to be that people would take a look, a realistic look at a team and they would look at their talent level and they would look at their experience and they'd look at their schedule and they would then create an expectation level. Today none of that's factored in. The expectation level from day one is, if you don't win 12 you're bad person. That's the most challenging part of it.

 Q. Verify something you said after the game last Saturday when you were talking about the play book and how you thought he was big or whatever and gave the -- I don't remember what word you used to not make it be that large. How does that happen? I mean, I know you have meetings, did you say, Hey, this is what I want the game plan to be?
 JOE TILLER: Well I went into the staff room this morning and I'll tell you what I told the staff. Shouldn't tell you this but I will. I had last Saturday's call sheets with me, and I went through the plays with them. And when I was done going through the plays with them I said, It's your mission, should you choose to accept, either accept the mission or don't show up Saturday, is to cut this list in half. 
 But coaches, you know, and I'm not blaming anyone because I am exactly that way myself. You run a play and it looks good against a team and you think that play's been good to us, I'm going to carry that play into the next week and the next week and the next week and the next week. But the next week you found another good one. And the week after that you found three more good ones. Next thing you know your base offense goes from being a list this long to a list this long. I don't know anyone that doesn't become a victim of that. It's terrible, horrible temptation. But, you know, it's something that hopefully will be corrected this week.
 Don't misunderstand me, by the way, He didn't have the whole playbook, so there's a lot of offense that he didn't go into that game with also.

 Q. What's the biggest contribution Michael Neal makes? 
 JOE TILLER: Michael Neil? Well I think he's a good locker room guy. In other words, I think he's good for your team. He's starting to assert himself in a leadership role; I view that as positive. But he's a good lead-by-example type guy. Plus he's a pretty good football player. He is an improving football player. And I hope that he has two really good games this year and a great senior season because, you know, he's improving. 
 But, you know, let's not forget this is the first year since he's been at Purdue that he's been healthy this late in the season, that usually has something to do with your contribution.

 Q. Basically the same question about Jermaine Guynn?
 JOE TILLER: Jermaine is Mr. Personality. He is very good for our team. He's a lunch bucket guy, so to speak. By that I mean he'll give you everything he has. He's not the most talented player we have out there. I think it speaks volumes about him that his teammates would elect him captain. He's a guy that's good for me because it's not uncommon for me to go to Jermaine and say, How's our team doing, or, How's our team thinking, and he's a pretty good barometer on issues such as that. So, in my opinion, he's an extremely valuable team member.

 Q. Are there other guys on the team that you would look at like Jermaine, to try to do that?
 JOE TILLER: I think you do based on what your needs are. I don't think you go out there and say let's try to find guys that can play some of this and some of that. I think you evaluate where you're at and say okay we have a need, who can fill the need.

 Q. You said you used Jermaine as a barometer for the team. What other guys would you look at for that?
 JOE TILLER: Baker. Ryan Baker is a guy. One of the guys I talk to almost daily about our team is Jaycen Taylor, and he's not even playing, but he's great in terms of the pulse of the team. We have a few other guys too.

 Q. (Question about Painter.)
 JOE TILLER: I think because of the health situation I don't think that we would necessarily throw him in there as a starter right away. You've heard me say we'd like to have him in a two-minute situation.

 Q. Talk about not wanting to worry about the future but how hard that is going to be for you next year?
 JOE TILLER: Next year won't be a problem at all. (Laughter.)

 Q. How hard is it right now?
 JOE TILLER: Next week is the problem. 
 I will watch Purdue with great interest next year because basically everybody in the program is a guy that I've had some part of recruiting or being a part of them coming to Purdue, so you're always interested to see how those guys go. 
 What I really hope for Purdue next year is that they can remain healthy. I think it would be a good -- you know, how good is this team? I don't know how good this team will be in the future, but I know one thing, if it's not healthy, you won't be able to judge how good it could or couldn't be. 
 So I'll watch them with great interest, and high hope for them is that they have a good off-season from a recovery point of view, and that at least they can go out there with six bullets in the chamber instead of two.

 Q. Have Danny on speed dial?
 JOE TILLER: Oh no.

 Q. Are you done?
 JOE TILLER: I'm done, done. You can stick a fork in me that's how done I am. 
 But I'll come back -- Arnette and I will come back to a game. We'll come back to West Lafayette when the Boilers are playing two in a row at home so that we can spend the weekend between the two games visiting with -- we do have some friends. Actually we'll visit with our many friends in between the two games and we'll ride back off into the sunset. 
 Danny, you don't have to worry about me hanging around the office. They gave Bo Schembechler an office. I said I'm not interested in anything like that, not even a closet.

 Q. With your seniors obviously heading towards their future lives, how much do you talk to them about that possibly whether they have a NFL, you know some kind of pro game after or if they're working to a degree how much input do you have with them about that?
 JOE TILLER: I visit with them. I try to be realistic. You know, one of the things that I think I've become sensitive to is sometimes I've been accused of being brutally honest. Sometimes they don't need the whole truth. By that I mean, if they have goals and aspirations of playing at the next level, I don't need to rain on their parade in the middle of the season and say, Hey, you don't have a future in the game, nobody in the NFL is asking about you, no one's requesting any DVD's on you, you know, no one is writing you up. I don't need to tell them that. 
 First couple years I coached I'd tell guys that you better get real serious about what you are doing because you ain't playing any more. But I don't do that any more. But I try to encourage them in the sense of getting their degrees and really taking care of business. And I'll mention in a senior-only setting or sometimes in a team setting that, you know, of our senior class here they all sit in the front row, you know, we've got 17 of them or whatever, you know, there's probably 12 of them that are going to play their last two games of their lives. Pretty subtle way of saying it. I don't tell them which 12 because all 17 of them think he ain't talking to me. But reality is I try to let them down soft and let them know that the game does come to an end for all of us.

 Q. I don't know if you heard about the Texas offensive guard?
 JOE TILLER: Center. Dismissed from the team? 

 Q. Do you talk to your team about having personal web pages and is there a policy you guys have on that?
 JOE TILLER: Yes. I'm not a techno guy as everyone knows so I rely on other people giving me information. I'm told, maybe y'all can correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm told that you can be on Facebook but you can lock it down so that only certain people can get into it. And so I tell them, number one, I'd like you not to be on Facebook. As a matter of fact, a year ago because we had some issues with that I told them you could be on Facebook or the football team but not both of them. I then had our GA's go and look up every player to make sure we didn't have anybody in violation. I've softened my stance on that because I've learned that you can lock the thing down apparently. 
 So I tell them, you know, if you are on Facebook it better be only people you can trust that you allow access to your information, and, of course, you're accountable for anything that shows up there, remember that, and most likely will become public record at some point. Be smart about what you are doing. I still have our GA's check and see who isn't locked down and then tell them you need to do this and you need to do it now. 
 But, you know, it's an information-driven world, a technological driven world and everybody's a reporter anymore. Hate to break the news to you guys, I'm going to let you down easy folks, you guys are not the only reporters in the world. As a matter of fact, you are very, very low on the food chain. Cell phones with the ability to take pictures at 2:00 a.m. in the morning are at the top.

 Q. In your time as a head coach, when was the last time you had to play four quarterbacks in a season strictly because of health-related reasons?
 JOE TILLER: In 2008. We had never gotten past number two. So I guess I've been pretty lucky that way. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT