FEDEX ORANGE BOWL: SOUTHERN CAROLINA v OKLAHOMA
January 2, 2005
Reggie Bush
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Reggie, your thoughts, will this be a high scoring game, low scoring game? 

REGGIE BUSH:  It could go both ways.  It could be a defensive game or an offensive game.  It's really hard to say.  We have to wait until the game time comes to find that out. 

Q.  Can you talk about the diverse opportunities you have in Norm Chow's offense, what it gives you an opportunity to do?

REGGIE BUSH:  Norm Chow, he's one of the most highly respected offensive coordinators across college football.  He's a mastermind at creating mismatches for our offense and just putting us in situations to be mismatched with players.  We have so many opportunities on our team, especially for me.  He does a great job at putting me in situations where I'm mismatched with a linebacker or something like that and it really gives us a chance to make big plays.  We have the easy part.  He has the hard part in creating mismatches for us. 

Q.  You and Oklahoma, you guys are so similar in a lot of ways.  What do you see as being sort of the developing factor that will separate either team from one another come game time?

REGGIE BUSH:  This game, like you said, is pretty even all across the board at every position.  This game could come down to special teams, a special teams play or just little things like that.  Like I said before, it's pretty solid and everything is pretty even all across the board, so it's really hard to say.  Usually in games like this it comes down to little things, like I said, special teams or who turns the ball over the least, factors like that. 

Q.  Norm was saying one of his biggest problems is finding those mismatches for us.  He said there's no place he can put you on the field where you're not going to draw two and usually three guys, so what do you do to get that advantage back?

REGGIE BUSH:  First of all, when that does happen and guys are trying to cover me, then that opens up stuff for our -- other people on our team like the receivers or the running backs, so it helps us in that sense, but I mean, pretty much throughout the whole game you've just got to wait your opportunity and just be patient because it'll come eventually.  They can't triple cover or double cover the whole game, so I really just try to focus on being patient out there.  Like I said in the beginning, it really opens up playing for my other teammates and then I'll get my shot definitely.

Q.  You and Matt have got tons of media around, guys like Shaun Cody.  Can you talk about some of the unsung guys on this team that might be known in LA but don't get much run nationally, who they are and your thoughts about them?

REGGIE BUSH:  First of all, first thing that comes to mind is the offensive line.  I think in football the offensive line doesn't get a lot of recognition like they should, especially our offensive line.  We have some young players on our line, and from the beginning of the season there's a lot of question marks as to whether they could do the job, and I think they've done a great job at going out there and providing holes for us and protecting the quarterback.  I mean, our line is -- they're in there fighting in the trenches in every game and the practices.  They really put in so much hard work and time and we love them to death.  We follow behind them, and obviously the running backs love them.  I mean, that's pretty much the first thing that comes to mind as far as unsung heroes.

Q.  Do you like your chances on Tuesday night?

REGGIE BUSH:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  I always like my chances.

Q.  Why is that?  Do you guys think without question you are the better team?

REGGIE BUSH:  Just because of the team we have, the type of athletes we have on this team.  You know, we have so much opportunities to go out there and make big plays with Norm Chow and his offense, and the type of mismatches he creates for us, we always like our chances.

Q.  How has South Beach been treating you guys?

REGGIE BUSH:  Oh, treating us very well.

Q.  What are some of the things that stick out in your mind, some of the things you are going to take back with you when you go back to SC? 

REGGIE BUSH:  You want me to talk about Miami? 

Q.  Yeah. 

REGGIE BUSH:  Well, the first thing, one, it's great weather.  We haven't had a hard time getting that.  Just enjoying the whole opportunity and experience out here in Miami and South Beach, just kind of taking it all in.  That's about it.

Q.  When we were watching the comedians it seemed like Oklahoma was a looser team, dancing around, and you were chilled out?

REGGIE BUSH:  We had just got off the airplane, also.  It was a five-hour flight, so we were all kind of tired.  I mean, I like the way we handled it, though.  We kept our game faces on.  I think we showed them that we're ready for business.  We're all about business, and Coach Chow always says this is a business trip.  But we have our fun at times.  We were just a little tired, I think, from being out there playing.

Q.  Your best night here so far hanging out with the fellows that you'll remember when you go back?

REGGIE BUSH:  Probably New Year's Eve, the whole team.  We were all having fun and just enjoying the whole Miami experience and just being together and just bonding, New Year's Eve and enjoying the whole New Year's Eve and bringing in the new year.  That's probably the fondest memory.

Q.  What did you guys end up doing?

REGGIE BUSH:  We had a little team party just for the team, and the parents and stuff were there, and we just brought in the new year and had a great time.

Q.  Just playing a little bit of catch up, I know you've answered the question regarding Larry Birdine's comments and the hype and what he's trying to do and that he's not the guy who won the Heisman, that Oklahoma's quarterback should have won it.  I know you do your talking on the field.  Is that his way of motivating your team?

REGGIE BUSH:  Who said that? 

Q.  Larry Birdine. 

REGGIE BUSH:  Yeah, I mean, we weren't coached to go out there and to give our personal opinions to media.  We were coached in more of a team aspect, remain humble.  Like I said, we weren't coached in that manner and we don't go out there and separate from the team and give our own personal opinions about somebody else.  We remain humble, and we'll just leave it at that.

Q.  Do you guys use that as any added motivation, or do you just say we don't need any motivation for the National Championship game?

REGGIE BUSH:  We don't need any more motivation than we already have.  This game has enough hype behind it with the crowd and the whole National Championship atmosphere, there's going to be enough hype to get us ready. 

Q.  Your nickname is "The President".  Is that something you like?  What do you think about that?

REGGIE BUSH:  It's just something that I think comes along with the territory with my teammates and just being on a National Championship kind of a team with a lot of media.  You know, sometimes you get those nicknames.  I like it.  I don't have a problem with it.

Q.  Are you into politics in any way at all?

REGGIE BUSH:  Not really.

Q.  Just talk about the OU defense, what you've seen of them on tape and how impressive they are to you and what you need to do to try and get through them. 

REGGIE BUSH:  Well, the defense, they don't have a lot of cracks in their defense.  They're pretty solid at every position.  They play their schemes very well.  They have a lot of team speed on the defense, so they really float to the ball really fast.  You know, it's nothing we haven't seen before.  With Virginia Tech we saw defense kind of like them in the sense with the team speed and the way the secondary came up and played the run, and they're very well physical, so we just have to go out there and play Trojan football, hit them in the mouth and see how they play us and take it from there.

Q.  Some of your teammates said that you have a shaking ability compared to Adrian Peterson, that you have got more shake.  How do you compare yourself to Peterson and what's the difference between you guys?

REGGIE BUSH:  First of all, I wouldn't compare myself to Adrian Peterson because I feel like we're two different style running backs.  We both have pretty good speed.  He's a more physical upright running back, and I feel like I'm more finesse.  He has power and speed and he really has the whole total package.  He's one of the best freshmen running backs to play the game in college football, but as far as our running styles go, we're really different, I think.

Q.  Have you guys interacted at all this week with Peterson or at all or any of the other players?

REGGIE BUSH:  Not this week, but when I was at the national -- at the Heisman Trophy awards ceremony, we got to talk and hang out a little bit.  That's the most interaction I had with him.

Q.  I want to just expound on something I asked you before.  Was there a moment when you were playing football in grade school, pop warner or whatever, where you said I'm really good at this, I can do this, and that maybe launched your career?

REGGIE BUSH:  There's no particular moment.  Ever since I started playing football, it just felt right.  It just felt like something I loved to do.  It was just something that I loved doing ever since I started when I was eight years old and started playing pop warner and I just loved it, and being able to entertain the crowd and go out there and make plays happen, and it was fun at the same time.  There wasn't a real moment that stands out in my mind.

Q.  Do you have a sense that you're not only playing for this year's championship but in a way playing for last year's, too, that people might, if you win, look back and say they were the more legitimate champion?

REGGIE BUSH:  Possibly, because I think this is one of the games that everybody wanted to see last year, and we didn't really get our chance because the BCS didn't allow us to do that.  I guess you could say that.  From our perspective, we're not playing for that.  What happened last year, you know, that's in the past and we try to forget about that.  This is a new year, 2005, and we're competing for the National Championship for the crystal football this year.

Q.  Reggie, how does what LenDale does make what you do a little easier or a little more effective?

REGGIE BUSH:  With his power running and his speed, you know, it opens up doors for me because defense has to play different.  We're two different style running backs and they have to tackle us different.  They can't tackle me the same way they're going to tackle him because he'll run right through you.  We're like a one-two combination.  We open up doors for each other, and with me, you have to chase me around or break down and try to play my moves or whatever, and with LenDale he's going to run right through you.  He isn't going run a lot of moves but he's very forceful in the same sense.  It's really hard when defenses have to switch up because we're playing our different styles.

Q.  Did you worry with his ankle the last couple weeks?

REGGIE BUSH:  No, I have no doubt that he's going to play in this game and do everything it takes to get himself to 100 percent so he can play this game.

Q.  Just talk about the sense of history with these two programs that have been good for 75, 100 years playing for the big prize. 

REGGIE BUSH:  Between both teams there's a lot of -- numerous Heisman Trophy winners and National Championship wins, and both programs are really known for just being big-time winning programs and just producing numerous athletes, so from the USC aspect, there's tons of Heisman Trophy winning running backs in particular and a lot of great athletes that have come out of both programs.

Q.  Since the bowl games started, a lot of people are talking about the training of the PAC 10 and the teams that you had to play to get here.  Is it starting to bother you that people are starting to question what you had to do to get here?

REGGIE BUSH:  Like I said before, we're not just playing for USC anymore.  We're playing for the PAC 10, too.  We're playing for the respect of the PAC 10, and I still think that the PAC 10 is trying to earn its respect in all of college football.  It doesn't become about USC, it becomes about California and the whole PAC 10.

Q.  (Inaudible).  Talk about on one side the tailback and on the other side Adrian Peterson. 

REGGIE BUSH:  Two good running backs playing in the National Championship, two Heisman Trophy finalists.  This game has all the hype behind it that it needs.  The National Championship itself it really self-explanatory.  We have a Heisman Trophy winning quarterback and they do, too.  Just as far as the running back aspect, there's just going to be a lot of big plays I think from both sides, and that's pretty much it.  We have to wait and find out and see what happens.

Q.  Could you elaborate a little bit about the Heisman Trophy finalist?  You yourself are a Heisman Trophy finalist and there are going to be two winners on the field.  What is it like to play with such high caliber players?

REGGIE BUSH:  You mean with the athletes?  It's going to be a great experience as far as the National Championship goes.  You know, it has all the hype behind it that it really needs.  It's really self-explanatory from the Heisman Trophy winning quarterback on both sides of the ball to Heisman Trophy winning running backs, so this game really is self-explanatory because we have so much hype behind it and we're pretty solid at every position as they are, too.  It's going to be a great game to see. We just keep everything within our system and just do what got us here so far.

Q.  I know you've answered these questions five times already, but people are saying maybe ten years from now they'll be playing this game on ESPN Classic. 

REGGIE BUSH:  Possibly.  This game has all the hype to be a classic.  It has all the -- as far as the Heisman Trophy winners and finalists, it has all the hype it needs, so many great athletes on both teams, so it could possibly play out to be an instant classic.

Q.  How do you put that out of your mind?  You say there's no extra pressure. 

REGGIE BUSH:  You don't think about it.  For us there's no extra pressure because we've been in games like this before.  From my freshman year and since I was here last year, we've been in numerous big games.  Auburn, first game of the season last year, Virginia Tech, the first game of this year.  We've been in plenty of big games and we're not going to be nervous.  This is something we're used to and we're ready to get this game on with.

Q.  At the beginning of the season I'm sure you set goals.  Do you set this as a goal, training camp, we're going to be in the Orange Bowl and challenge for No. 1?

REGGIE BUSH:  Our goal is always to win the Rose Bowl because that's something we can control.  You can't control who goes to the National Championship game.  That's really decided by the BCS, but we can control who goes to the Rose Bowl and who wins the PAC 10.

Q.  So this is not the cherry on top but this is the orange on top?

REGGIE BUSH:  Yeah, it's the orange on top.  This is the icing on the cake.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT