ROSE BOWL GAME: IOWA VS STANFORD
December 29, 2015
Jordan Lomax
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you talk about your defense and where you guys are at as far as preparation for the game.  
JORDAN LOMAX: We feel pretty good right now.  We've been practicing good all week.  We know Stanford is a great opponent and it's going to take all 11 people on the ball.   
 Q.  What's the biggest challenge for you guys defensively?  
JORDAN LOMAX: The biggest challenge is stopping their run game.  They have a great quarterback and also a great running back.  Their offensive line is big up front.  So we're going to have to really get after them with our D linemen up front.  Everybody else is going to have to be following suit in run support.   
 Q.  You guys are undefeated and you had that setback.  So what did Coach talk to you guys about as far as getting refocused for a bowl game?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's always our focus -- we have the 24-hour rule which we apply to each game.  So right after the game we let it sit with us for 24 hours and we move on.  We found out our next opponent would be Stanford, and ever since then we've been preparing for them.   
 Q.  So for you personally how do you think you played this season, and what do you hope to do in the Rose Bowl game?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Personally I feel like our team has played well.  We try not to focus on too much of individual accomplishments.  It's a team effort.  We're 12-1 and I'm happy to be 12-1 with this team.  The team has played together and played great this entire season, and I'm just happy to be part of it.   
 Q.  Both teams are similar:  You both have great defenses.  Very physical.  Can you talk about that.  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah, definitely.  Our teams are very similar.  We both try to dominate you with the running game and then we'll throw a play-action pass in there as well.  It's really going to come down to the team that's the most physical, the most persistent in executing their correct assignments and just playing fundamental football.   
 Q.  What is it about this particular team makes this Iowa team special?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I feel like the team just plays together so well.  Everybody just plays together.  We all just go out there and play for one another, and we execute and we just play fundamental, physical football.   
 Q.  And you've been making a switch from corner to safety.  How much has that helped you, your development as a football player?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It helps a lot because knowing what the corner should do, it allows me to relax a little bit.  And I'm happy to be able to play with two great corners like Desmond King and Greg Mabin.  It takes a lot of pressure off my job to be able to play with those two guys right there.  And right beside me, Sean Draper and Miles Taylor, other great players.  Those guys just make it easier for me.   
 Q.  What exactly do you look for in each game from an opponent or opposing quarterback?  
JORDAN LOMAX: You try to pick up on any cues or checks that they might do on film.  Also you just try to figure out your run read, what alleys you have to fill in.  And just figuring out what the quarterback likes to do, what does he like to run or not.  And you just get a feel for him.   
 Q.  How have you enjoyed your stay in Southern California so far?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's been awesome.  California, the weather has been great.  It's a lot better than Iowa City.  And just to be out here and experiencing the Rose Bowl has been awesome.   
 Q.  How much is weather a factor in playing?  
JORDAN LOMAX: The weather?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
JORDAN LOMAX: Not really.  Football, like you can play football in any weather.  So it really doesn't affect it too much.  And actually we're even in a better climate, I feel like it actually helps us even more.  So we've never really had the weather affect our game.   
 Q.  How do you feel about like playing in the Rose Bowl in a neutral stadium as opposed to playing say at home?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I'm not sure.  I've never played in the Rose Bowl before, but it's one of the greatest bowl games of all time, and it's a great experience right now.  And the good thing about our fans is that they travel with us.  They're always there for us in our home games, and I know they'll be there for us on January 1st.   
 Q.  So I understand a lot of the players here are from Iowa.  How did you find yourself like fitting in?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It wasn't too hard.  This team is very receptive, no matter your background, and we all just gel really well together.  The camaraderie on this team is at a very high level, and the fact we just stick together and play together so well, it really just helps on the field.   
 Q.  So you're a senior, what are your next steps after this football season, this season?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I'm not sure.  I would like to play at the next level.  That's been a dream of mine.  But I haven't really thought about it so much.  I've really been focused on the season.  This season has been such a blessing for this team.  I just happy to be a part of it, and right now I just want to help and end it on a great note.   
 Q.  Your preparation coming into the season, what is it you thought that you needed to do to get ready for this season?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I felt like I could get better in the run game, pass game and then most importantly was just evolving as a leader on the team.  And that was able to happen.  And it's just been a whole group effort, with all the seniors on the team being able to lead this team in the direction we're at right now.  And you just gotta give it to the younger guys, being able to lead.  The team has been a very respectable, humble, hungry team, and it's just been fighting against all the odds since our season.  We just stayed together this entire time.   
 Q.  Back on the leadership thing, so what is it that you felt like you needed to do as far as leadership to work on?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Just being a voice, reiterating what the coaches have been instilling upon us, getting back to playing good Iowa football.  That's what we were able to do this year and that's why our record is 12-1.   
 Q.  So good Iowa football, is that smash mouth, being physical, taking the game to the opponent?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yes, it's fundamentally sound, being physical, just outworking your opponent.   
 Q.  When you're not playing football, what do you enjoy doing?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I like just relaxing with my friends, video games, going to the movies with some friends.  That's about it really.  I'm a laid-back person, so I just like to chill, have some downtime.   
 Q.  Did you get any video games for Christmas?  
JORDAN LOMAX: No.  I didn't get any video games for Christmas.  We got a lot of bowl gifts and everything, but video games wasn't one of them.   
 Q.  What's some of the games you have right now that you really enjoy?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I like Call of Duty: Black Ops III and I also like playing Madden a lot.   
 Q.  [Continued...]  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's all competitive.  It's like you don't want to lose in anything.  You always want to come first and taking that competitive edge mindset in the video games helps a lot.   
 Q.  What about Madden?  Do you play Madden at all?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Oh, yeah.  I played Madden like three times.  I haven't played it a lot during the season because it's so hard to play games during season because you're focused so much.  So usually during the season, I don't get to play games a lot.   
 Q.  How much during the season do you get to actually focus on playing video games, compared to the off-season?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Shoot, if you're lucky, you probably get one game a week.  There's so much preparation going on.   
 Q.  And can you talk about Coach and how much he kind of got you guys together through the season and put you guys where you're at coming into the Rose Bowl.  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah.  Definitely.  Our coaches have definitely had a huge part in our success this year.  Pretty much where we left off last year with a bad taste in our mouths.  And we knew we were a better team than that.  So getting us to play good Iowa football, that was the whole thing this off-season and it showed up during the season.   
 Q.  How much has Coach shaped you not just as player but as a student and as a young man?  
JORDAN LOMAX: He shaped me a lot.  The coaches here made me the person I am today.  They helped mold me into being a young man.  It's not all about football all the time.  It's being a better man in society, getting your degree, graduating.  Doing everything right.  And just being a great person.   
 Q.  Do you have a role model, football role model and role model period?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I have a football role model:  I like Earl Thomas.  He's a guy with great character and he played safety and we're about the same size.  I like to emulate my game a little after him.   
 Q.  What about individual?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Just individuals, my parents definitely helped mold the value that exist in my life today.   
 Q.  What are some of the values?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Family, hard work, academics, finishing anything that you start.   
 Q.  Has it been hard the last couple seasons to listen to the chatter thing that it might have been Coach Ferentz's last season last year?  Was it hard to listen to all the criticism of the coach?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Not really.  Our coaches prepare us and help us ignore the noise.  That's been a big thing at Iowa, don't pay attention to the outside noise, because you can't control that.  The only thing you can control is what happens in-house.   
 Q.  Does this sort of validate what kind of coach he is that he was able to get you guys to this point?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yes, definitely.  We take after him a lot.  We follow in his footsteps.  He didn't pay attention to it, so we didn't have a reason to pay attention to it.  We focused on ourselves and because of that we were 12-1.   
 Q.  A little more meaningful to get here for him given the last couple of seasons?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yes.  Definitely.  To play in the Rose Bowl is a huge accomplishment and it's well earned and well deserved, and gotta give all credit to our coaches and the players working hard and having a great season.   
 Q.  What does it feel like to be the first Iowa team to do this in 17 years?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's huge.  It speaks volumes of the type of team we have, speaks volumes for the type of coaches we have.  It's a great opportunity for this program, this university and just for the Hawkeye fans.   
 Q.  You've been a pretty strong unit all year.  Just talk about pulling down Christian McCaffrey and the Stanford offense.  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's going to take all eleven people on defense running to the ball.  He's a great back.  It's going to start with our D line up front to get after their offensive line.  Their offensive line is very big and they're strong, and they're built just like our offense.  It's going to come down to who dominates the run game.   
 Q.  How special would it be to end one of the best seasons in Hawkeye history with a Rose Bowl win?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's a huge honor.  Just to end it on this note my senior year, being a part of this great team; this has been a blessing and a fun ride.  It'll be great for us to end it with a Rose Bowl win.   
 Q.  I think Iowa pulled over 50,000 tickets for the game.  A lot of people are coming down this way, a long way from snowy Iowa now.  Talk about the fan support and what that means for you guys to have that.  
JORDAN LOMAX: It means a lot.  We personally feel like we have the best fans in college football.  It tells in the ticket sales.  They've been with us all season long, through our ups and downs, and for us to be able to give back to them in this Rose Bowl is huge.   
 Q.  When I was talking to Stanford this morning, they said that you guys have one of the best defenses in the league.  How does that feel?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I mean, I guess we feel good about that.  But our defense is really good, and the only reason we're so good is because we play well together.  We play physical.  We run to the ball.  We actually get our assignments and play great fundamental football.   
But it's just a total defensive team effort, and I guess we're happy that they said that about us.  We'd rather them say that we're a really good defense than a really bad defense.   
 Q.  I heard that you all have like a unique style of offense.  Could you talk to me about that?  
JORDAN LOMAX: That we have a unique style of offense?   
 Q.  Yeah, something like kind of similar to Stanford.  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah.  Our offense and Stanford's offense is very similar just because they both like to dominate you on the run game and it just comes down to smash mouth, physical football.  The good thing is we've been going up against our offense a lot this entire season and Stanford is built just like our offense.  So it's going to be a great game.   
 Q.  When you were researching Stanford, what kind of stood out for you?  What did you notice their strengths and weaknesses are?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Particularly on their weaknesses part they don't have a lot.  But in their strengths they do have a lot.  You notice that in their quarterback, he's a veteran quarterback that knows how to read defenses.  You have a runner-up Heisman running back right behind him, who can definitely run the ball very well, and then their offensive line is very dominant up front.  And if you want to move into their pass game, they have athletic tight ends and receivers that go up and catch the ball.  They've been on highlight tapes all year long.   
 Q.  I know for a lot of you and your teammates, this is the first time in California.  Have you been to California before this?  
JORDAN LOMAX: No, this is my very first time in California.   
 Q.  What do you think about it then?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I think it's beautiful, it's awesome.  The weather out here is great.  I'd rather be in California during the winter than in Iowa right now.   
 Q.  You guys have a blizzard, so it's quite a bit different.  
JORDAN LOMAX: I wasn't even aware of the blizzard right now.   
 Q.  You guys playing in the Rose Bowl, the school's first Rose Bowl in quite a long time.  What does it mean to be able to play in a bowl game of this magnitude for your school this year?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's huge.  The Rose Bowl is a great accomplishment and you don't get to the Rose Bowl without having a great team.  This team has worked so hard and earned a trip to the Rose Bowl.  And for us to be able to play in this game and represent our university, our program and our Hawkeye fans is huge.   
 Q.  Did you grow up watching the Rose Bowl?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I grew up watching the Rose Bowl a little bit, but now that I'm actually playing in it, it's even more significant for me and it's really taken me back a lot.   
 Q.  And what do you think is going to be the key for you guys on Friday?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's going to come down to the team that's more competitive that goes out there and executes their assignment.  Both teams are very physical and tough up front, but that's also going to be a factor, what team can out-physical and out-tough the other.   
 Q.  And your coach talks about how the last time he came to the Rose Bowl was quite a long time ago.  He hasn't been here in a while.  What would it mean for you to win the Rose Bowl for your coach who's been with the program for a long time?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It would mean a lot.  It would mean a lot to get this final win for Coach Ferentz.  He's done an exceptional job for the entire team, and put us in the direction where we are at right now.  It would just be huge for our coach, our entire coaching staff, our university, our football program and then our Hawkeye fans who have been giving us a lot of support all season.   
 Q.  With all the distractions and festivities that go along with a big Rose Bowl like this, how do you stay focused heading into Friday's game?  
JORDAN LOMAX: We have a very mature team and we've been doing it all season long.  We haven't let outside distractions affect us.  It's been no different on this trip.  We know what the real task is on hand, and that's January 1st playing against a great opponent.   
 Q.  Take me through the experience and then what you feel you need to do to be successful on Friday.  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's been a huge opportunity to make the Rose Bowl, just to experience it has been very exceptional.  The people on the team have never played in a game of this magnitude, this year.  So just to be here playing in an historic bowl game is very huge for us, so in order for us to get the win is we need to do what we've been doing all year long, and that's just being fundamentally strong and playing Iowa football.   
 Q.  What do you see on the Stanford staff that you need to attack?  Do you see any weakness?  What is your approach going to be?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Stanford does a very good job of running the ball.  They have a play-action that plays off of that.  So it's going to be very important for us to stop the run.  If we're able to stop the run, get them out of their comfort zone, that'll be huge for us.  But it's a lot easier to say than do because they do a great job of running the ball.   
 Q.  Talk about the experience so far in preparing for this game.  How has everything gone for you?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Everything is going really well.  We had great preparation in our practices.  Things are really going right now.  It's been a great week of practice for us and just preparing.   
 Q.  Was it hard to get back in that rhythm after having a break between the last game and the Bowl?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Not really.  The team has done a very good job of handling our break and coming back and jumping right into it.  You're always going to have to shake off a little rust when you're getting back into it after a while.  But we definitely bounced back really well and we're having great practices.   
 Q.  What's your favorite non-football thing you've done since you've been here?  
JORDAN LOMAX: We went to a comedy show last night that was pretty funny.  A lot of guys had a great time there, so I would say that would be it.   
 Q.  Did you get to eat a lot of beef?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Oh, yeah.  Lawry's Beef Bowl, yeah, the prime rib was very good.   
 Q.  Talk about Stanford.  What do you see in them and what do you have to do to stop them?  
JORDAN LOMAX: You definitely see they have a very stout running game.  They're very big up front with their offensive line and they have a runner-up Heisman in the backfield that can definitely make you miss and knock off tackles, and then they have a quarterback that knows how to manage the game well.   
So it's going to be very tough to stop their run and that's going to come down to being the difference in the game.   
 Q.  How do you do that, stopping the runner like that, because he seems to find little holes and get through little spots, doesn't he?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's going to start with our D line.  They're going to have to penetrate the offensive line.  And then it's going to come down to the secondary and the linebackers filling the right alleys in support and coming down to make the tackle.  So it's going to take all eleven guys doing their job in order to stop their run.   
 Q.  That's the key, when you guys have been good, everybody is zoned in together, aren't you?  Who's gotta be where each time?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah.  Definitely.  We have confidence.  We've been playing with each other for a long time, and we know what each other is going to do.  So having that confidence in one another that as long as you execute your job, then you'll get the entire job done.   
 Q.  What do you have to do to contain McCaffrey and Stanford in general?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's gonna take all eleven people running to the ball.  Up front the D line, they're going to have to penetrate the offensive line, then it's going to come down to the linebackers and safeties and corners coming in there for support and getting the ball.   
 Q.  Is this getting monotonous to you, like media day and all the hustle and bustle, you guys just want to get out there and play football?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah, definitely.  We've been out here for a while now and the practices are going great and right now we're all just itching for January 1st to come so we can get out there.   
 Q.  When you're on the football field does it almost feel like you're back in Iowa, like it doesn't matter where you are?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah, it's so fun to be here.  You get to step into your zone and you kind of forget about what's going on right now.  You're just focusing on one thing, Stanford and our opponent.  It's just fun for us out there.  We all love football.   
 Q.  What about this been the most fun for you?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Just being with our teammates to celebrate the Rose Bowl experience.  The team hasn't been to the Rose Bowl in a while.  So for us to be together and celebrate the experience is huge.   
 Q.  There probably is going to be a change in the guard next year in the secondary.  The whole team, but specifically the secondary.  What are your thoughts about how you think Miles and Greg will step into that leadership role?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I think they will do a great job stepping into that role.  They both have an ample amount of playing time and they both are already recognized as leaders on the defense.  Their play will have to show up also.  And I think they will also do a good job of bringing everybody else along.  I have a lot of confidence in them.   
 Q.  Snyder is behind you on the depth chart right now.  How is he looking?  
JORDAN LOMAX: He's looking very well.  Through these bowl practices, he's improved a lot.  And he should just step right in.  The defense looks like it won't miss a step.   
 Q.  Coach Parker called Miles a violent football player earlier in the year.  Would you agree with that assessment?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I would definitely agree with that, yes.  He's a definitely violent player and he loves to hit you.   
 Q.  Is he one of the most physical guys you've seen since you've been here?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah.   
 Q.  Does he stack up with anybody else, when you think of violent guys, who pops into your head?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Guys like Nate Meier.  We have a very violent physical defense.   
 Q.  Do you think that'll play a good role against Stanford?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Oh, yeah.  Definitely.   
 Q.  Have you been in touch with any of the former Iowa players?  Have you been in touch with them or have they given you any mentorship or advice leading up to this game?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I keep in touch with some but like not before this game.   
 Q.  Does the weather really factor into this at all?  Because it's going to be 25 degrees in Iowa City the day of the game, but it's going to be 65 here.  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's going right over our head.  The weather really doesn't play too big of a role with us.  We just go out there and execute and play football.   
 Q.  What's it going to feel like once you step out on that field come January 1?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's gonna be awesome.  We haven't played a football game in a couple of weeks now, so being able to get back in that competitive environment is going to be huge.   
 Q.  What has been the highlight so far of your trip?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Just being out here with our teammates, just celebrating the Rose Bowl experience, just knowing what we went through this entire season to get to this point is huge.   
 Q.  What grade would you give this team thus far, a number of say one to ten, a level of intensity and focus?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I'll say it's at a ten right now. We're a very capable football team and we wouldn't have gotten where we are right now if it wasn't for your focus and details. Our team has done a good job of that now.   
 Q.  Talk about the intensity, how will it translate come January 1 on the field?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It'll translate very, very well because our team, we've been itching to get into a competitive environment again. It's been a couple of weeks now since we've played in a game. We've been banging up against each other the past couple of weeks now and we're ready to go out and do it against another opponent.   
 Q.  How is the body feeling?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Physically, my body is ready to go. This break has definitely helped recover after a long season. I'm just ready to get after it.   
 Q.  What's your motivation, inspiration as a person and as a player?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Just to be the best that we can be and just go out there and win every game and go out there and be a team player first, just seeing that you've done a good job playing together this entire year, and that's what we want to stick to.   
 Q.  How much of a dream is this for you to come to?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's huge. It's very huge. Looking back before the season started, where we are right now, it's just so huge. It's something you couldn't even think of. And the fact that we're playing in the Rose Bowl right now is great for our team.   
 Q.  How about parents' inspiration or who's the people that have been inspiring you, family, friends?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Definitely my parents. They definitely helped to instill the values in my life today. They're always my role models.   
 Q.  Christian McCaffrey, great player obviously. What are the keys to stopping him?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's going to take a total team effort. It's going to take all 11 guys running to the football because he has the ability to run the ball and catch the ball out of the back field and he has the ability to make you miss and to lose tackles. So it's going to take a team effort.   
 Q.  Is he similar to any player you've faced this year?  
JORDAN LOMAX: They have a little bit of Minnesota with their run game, Wisconsin. We've seen the domination up front and Stanford is no different.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're prepared because of that?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah.   
 Q.  And this week, how has it been, not distracting but events going on, how have the leaders put the team on the right track and helped them focus this week?  
JORDAN LOMAX: They've been doing a very good job the entire season long. Been a very mature group that has been able to ignore the distractions and focus on January 1st.   
 Q.  How about after the championship loss, how did the leaders regroup? What did you say to the team?  
JORDAN LOMAX: We have a 24-hour rule that has been in effect this entire season. The 24-hour rule is you have 24 hours to focus on what happened in the game, and after that 24 hours is up, you move on. And that's what we did. We went out there, we played hard, we got on the film, we corrected our mistakes and then we moved on and our next opponent is Stanford.   
 Q.  Sure. What did Coach Ferentz say after that? He preaches that 24-hour rule. What else did he say to keep you on the right track?  
JORDAN LOMAX: He let us know we're still a very, very good team and we just have to keep fighting. We cannot ever be satisfied with where we're at.   
 Q.  Talk to me a little bit about the leadership. You guys with the week off. You installed the game plan in Iowa City and now you're kind of tinkering. Is there a message you send the guys about how to handle all of this?  
JORDAN LOMAX: This team has done a very good job of being able to lead and leadership, our coach talks about it all the time, leadership lies under the surface. It's not just the leaders but it's the followers that take control and lead themselves. And our team has done an excellent job of doing that this year.   
 Q.  How have you handled the down time this week?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Very well. We've been to all the events but at the end of the day we know that our real goal is January 1. So we definitely get in the film room, guys are talking football and it's great to see.   
 Q.  What have you done to relax?  
JORDAN LOMAX: We went to a comedy show last night which was a funny event. We were at Disneyland the other day, which was nice, another downtime event and just relaxing in my room, laying down, thinking about football and getting my mind off anything.   
 Q.  How does the knee feel?  
JORDAN LOMAX: The knee feels awesome.   
 Q.  With time to prepare for the game, is there an area that you try to improve your game specifically?  
JORDAN LOMAX: You just gotta continue watching film, try to find out anything you can about Stanford and their offense. They're a great offense. Any details or anything you can get will definitely help in the game.   
 Q.  Talk about the whole Rose Bowl experience, especially you're a senior, going out on top, what's the whole process been like?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's been huge, just to celebrate with the guys that helped get us here, celebrate with the coaching staff. It means a lot just for the football program, the university and for all of our fans.   
 Q.  Talk about how tough it is, the stakes are higher. Ferentz talks about the more wins you get, the higher the altitude is, the higher the outside noise is. You still have a game on Friday but you have so many events leading up to that. Is it hard to stay focused in practice?  
JORDAN LOMAX: No. Once you step in between those white lines on the football field and inside of our meeting room, the switch immediately gets turned on. It's all about football. And this team has done a great job with that. It's a very mature group and we really know what's important. We really know the true task at hand and that's on January 1st.   
 Q.  When players go down like [Jake] Duzey who has done that a couple times this year and then Drew Ott. As a teammate and player, do you feel for them? And how do you bring them back up when they know their season is over?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's just really hard because they're two great players, and they gave a lot to the team. But this team has had a next-man-in philosophy this entire year and you've seen that, when people go down, the next man goes in. And those guys, Duzey and Drew, they've done a good job of mentoring the guys that come in and replace them. That's all about being a great leader and great teammate.   
And Duzey and Drew, you just can't speak any more highly of them. They're great dudes, they're great teammates and great players.   
 Q.  If someone from your high school perspective, high school student or athlete came up to you and said, hey, I'm thinking about coming to Iowa, sell me the program, how would you go about it?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I would say if they want to play football the right way, learn how to be coached, learn how to play fundamentally sound, physically and tough and get pushed to your maximum potential, then Iowa Football is the place to be.   
 Q.  Out here Stanford has a bit of a reputation of being sort of a Pac-12 team as compared to a Big Ten team. Would you say you kind of see that most comparable on a weekly basis?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah, definitely. The way their run game is set up, they really look like a Big Ten team and they're very similar to our offense the way they like to attack you up front with their run game and do some trick plays. It's definitely going to take us being very physical up front and executing our plays and our details.   
 Q.  And as the season progresses here, did you start to see a point where you were aware that the team was capable of doing something special?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah. During the off-season, the way guys just wouldn't let each other settle for mediocrity. And you could tell that the off-season, the way our strength and conditioning coach set up our program the off-season. It was tough and we really had to fight through it. But look where we're at right now. It's been a long journey for this team and this team has done a great job this year.   
 Q.  When you're working out in the weight room the off-season or is there anything in particular you remember about that?  
JORDAN LOMAX: We always we're together in the weight room, whether it's guys encouraging each other to get an extra rep, encouraging guys. We had a slight-edge philosophy from a book, and guys will come up there and take things out of the book and tell the team what it meant for them or what it means for the game and that also helped a lot.   
 Q.  And once you're in the regular season, is there a particular win that you felt maybe kind of was the win?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I think the big game was Marshall Koehn kicked the field goal to win the game. I think it was a 57-yarder. After that game -- and that was early on so the season, too. It was like, wow, this team is really special. You could tell there's something different about this team.   
 Q.  Wisconsin game where the defense was so outstanding. Did that maybe give you guys a springboard into the second half?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah, definitely. We really knew what we were capable of. We knew as long as we played good Iowa football and played together, offense, defensive special teams-wise, we could play with anybody in the country.   
 Q.  Shutting them down on their home field. Was that a pretty special?  
JORDAN LOMAX: That was very special. Special for this program, for our coaches and for all of our fans.   
 Q.  How has media been so far?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's pretty good, but I know there's a lot of guys that would rather be practicing on the football field right now.   
 Q.  Is this one of those kind of necessary evils, you play in the Rose Bowl, you gotta do a lot of media stuff, too?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's one of those things you gotta get done. It's part of the events. You gotta do everything.   
 Q.  Are you going to be okay with not having to do these anymore after this week?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  Any good questions, anything out of the ordinary?  
JORDAN LOMAX: No. They were all respectable questions today. Actually one of the best ones ever. It was a great day.   
 Q.  Pretty wild thing?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah. It's a definitely wild scene. Never been in anything of this magnitude. All the reporters around here, playing in the Rose Bowl. It's a huge bowl game, a very historical game, and we're just happy to be able to play in this game and represent our university.   
 Q.  [On whether they feel different now they might not be the underdog...]  
JORDAN LOMAX: We don't feel any different. We've always been perceived as the underdog. So being underdog really doesn't play a role in our thoughts on this game.   
 Q.  [On what he thinks the game will be like...]  
JORDAN LOMAX: I think it's going to be up there like a game like Wisconsin. I think it's going to be a very physical game.   
 Q.  [On the importance of execution...]  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's very important, because that's what it's really going to come down to, because Stanford, they are a very tough physical team so now it's going to be execution and who's going to be following the right correct reads.   
 Q.  [On whether they watched Stanford through the season...]  
JORDAN LOMAX: Like they're not in our conference, but we just watched film on them. But you see them on SportsCenter when they make big plays. So it's that kind of thing, but now that we're playing them, it has been for more of a focus.   
 Q.  [On Iowa fans after the Rose Bowl berth announcement...]  
JORDAN LOMAX: Oh, yeah. People are crazy. You see roses everywhere all over the campus. People excited, patting you on the back and it's huge excitement going on around the entire campus.   
 Q.  What would it mean for Iowa to win the Rose Bowl?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It would mean a lot. It would be so huge, just for Coach Ferentz, being the man he is and how he leads the coaching staff and leads the team well. It would mean a lot to win for him and the entire state of Iowa, it would be huge.   
 Q.  [On Christian McCaffrey...]  
JORDAN LOMAX: That guy is very good. Very good player, runner-up for the Heisman. You don't get that many great players. So it's going to take all eleven guys on defense to stop him.   
 Q.  What do you think the Rose Bowl means to this team's legacy?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It means a lot. This season has already been a legendary season, and to cap it off with a Rose Bowl win would be even more spectacular and huge.   
 Q.  Obviously it has been legendary. Are you guys satisfied yet or you still feel like you gotta go get this one?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Oh, yeah.  We definitely feel like we gotta go get this one.  It's huge.  It's the Rose Bowl game.  It's one of the greatest bowl games in history.  And to be able to get this win for us and cap it off, it would be a great season.   
 Q.  How hard was it to put Michigan State in the rearview mirror?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Definitely hard.  You go out in a championship game and leave it all there.  And it was a great game between two great opponents but we have a 24-hour rule on this team where after 24 hours were up, you focus on the next game and time to move on.  The next day we found out we would be here against Stanford.   
 Q.  The bigger the game, so much pageantry and so many activities.  You guys are doing all sort of fun stuff.  How do you balance that out and make sure not to get too distracted at all?  
JORDAN LOMAX: You just do what you've been doing the entire season long.  We've had media in front of our team the entire season just because of the entire season we've had this year and this team is a very mature group.  They've done a great job of focus right now on what's really important is January 1, facing Stanford.   
 Q.  Done some shopping in LA, what do you think?  
JORDAN LOMAX: No, I haven't done any shopping in LA.  LA is pretty expensive.  I think I'll just save my money until I go back to Iowa City.   
 Q.  Has it kind of hit you that this is the last game?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah, it definitely hit me.  It's hit me this whole week, just thinking about this would be the last game I'd ever play at the University of Iowa.  And definitely want to go out with a win.  It would just be huge just to get a win for this team and for all the teams.  University of Iowa has been so good to me.  It's been such a great experience and so humble to be a part of this program.   
 Q.  What's it been like to be part of this team this year?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's been very emotional.  The guys on this team have just played together so well this year, just to be able to be a part of the team that is so special, and these group of guys, it's just been an honor to be able to play with them this year.   
 Q.  You need to bring the "A" game this week.  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah.  Definitely gotta bring the "A" game.  Has to be the best game of your Iowa football career.   
 Q.  [On Stanford's offense...]  
JORDAN LOMAX: You definitely see that they have a very different style of running game.  Their O Line up front does a great job of giving McCaffrey holes to run through.  He has such great vision.  You gotta give credit to their quarterback who knows how to manage the game very well.  He's a veteran quarterback and he does a great job.   
 Q.  Schematically they do a lot of stuff.  How much of a challenge has that been to prepare for?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's been a challenge, but at the same time we faced teams like Minnesota and Wisconsin who do similar things like Stanford does.  So being able to play those two opponents early in the season has definitely helped a lot.   
 Q.  And most enjoyable part of the trip for you.  
JORDAN LOMAX: Just being out here with the teammates, just being together, celebrating the Rose Bowl experience with them.  They're the reason why we're here.  The coaches are the reason why we're here.  So just to be out here and spend this time with them, that's been the most important.   
 Q.  First Rose Bowl?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah, this is my first Rose Bowl.  Very huge experience.  It's an honor and a blessing to be here.   
 Q.  Did you ever think you would be playing in the Rose Bowl?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Yeah, you definitely have to think that you'll be playing in the Rose Bowl.  It all comes with a vision.  And then to actually be playing here, it's so surreal and huge.  This team has done a great job this season.  We definitely earned the right to be here and we earned the right to face a great opponent, which is Stanford.   
 Q.  What's next for you after this?  
JORDAN LOMAX: I'm not sure.  Definitely would like to play at the next level, but everybody knows that it's very hard to play at the next level and it's not guaranteed.  So I mean you shoot your shot and you try, and then if that doesn't work out, you move on.   
 Q.  You're kind of a smart guy, cerebral player.  You could say the same thing about Hogan on the other side.  What do you expect that match up to be like, the mental aspect of it?  
JORDAN LOMAX: It's going to be huge.  Me and Kevin went to rival high schools, so we played each other back in high school.  So not much has changed; he was great then and is great now.  If we match up, it's going to be huge and it's going to play a role in the game.   
 Q.  What type of experience can you take from playing him back in high school or even watching him on tape?  
JORDAN LOMAX: Definitely just playing back in high school, he definitely has evolved a lot, just watching film, seeing how he's able to manage the game a lot better.  And the way he's able to make such great throws.  And he also is very good in the run game, too.  If he doesn't see anything, he'll take the ball down and run, and he's a great runner in open field.  So being able to get him down to the ground and being able to read him and figure out where he wants to go with the ball is going to be huge.   
 Q.  He'll call a few plays in the huddle and go up to the line check into the one that they want.  Do you guys do anything differently because you try to disguise or anything like that?  
JORDAN LOMAX: This whole season we've always disguised our coverages, so it's going to be nothing different.  And as far as him going up to the line and checking it, if we notice that, we all stay back with our sideline to see what's going on.  So it shouldn't be too big of a deal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT