LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 27, 2020
Joakim Noah
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kings - 106, Clippers - 102
Q. Joakim, with a lot of guys getting minutes throughout these last three scrimmages, I'm wondering as you look ahead to the regular season, how are you feeling about the depth of the group?
JOAKIM NOAH:   I mean, it's definitely one of the strengths of this team.  We have a lot of bodies, a lot of good players.  Now it's everybody getting back on the same page.  We're here for the long run, but we've just got to keep working on our habits and keep gelling as a team.
Q. I'm just curious where your sort of tenacious energy and that constant talking on the court, hyping up guys, Doc mentioned physical contact being a big part of your game, keeping guys engaged.  Where did that come from for you?
JOAKIM NOAH:   Yeah, I think that that's just my job.  I try to be as vocal as possible.  It's your job to be as vocal as possible to make sure guys are in their spots and try to make some structure out there.
Q. Being on campus, protecting you guys, all the things that you have to go through in the morning, the temperatures, how has the routine been?
JOAKIM NOAH:   I mean, we know it's very repetitive, what we're all doing, but they're keeping it safe, that's for sure.  But sometimes it's -- you know what, no complaints.  At the end of the day the NBA is doing a great job of making sure that we're safe.
Q. You heard about what's going on in baseball.  Talk about what the league is doing to make sure that it doesn't happen here with the campus and with the bubble.
JOAKIM NOAH:   Oh, for sure.  For sure.  You can tell that it's a lot of structure.  The NBA is checking temperatures and just making sure everything is just right.  You know, so on the second question, we're here to play basketball, but it's not easy for anybody, but at the end of the day we understand why we're here, and it's a blessing to play basketball, that's for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT