NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Joakim Noah
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You made a fashion statement with the bowtie.   Do you have something creative in mind some people want to know.   
JOAKIM NOAH:   Are you sure you want to know?   Actually I really don't.   I really don't have anything planned.   I'll think of something.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
JOAKIM NOAH:   Definitely not.   I think it's an unbelievable honor to be a part of this.   But I think that the moment that defines you are in the playoffs.   This is a big circus around you.   The moment that defines you is the moment that makes you happy.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
JOAKIM NOAH:   My mom told me ‑‑ my mom was Miss Sweden in 1976 and she told me, you know, even to this day people say, in 1976 "I saw you as Miss Sweden."   
   
 Q.   We cover the Gators and they have a pretty good team.   You may be biased to this, could this be the best team since the '07 bunch playing this year?  
JOAKIM NOAH:   I think they are very good.   I've been watching this team closely.   And I'm really happy.   I'm really proud of them.   I think they're going to have a shot.   In a tournament anything can happen.   But I think that if they stay hungry and they stay focused, I think they're going to have a shot.   That's something that we should be proud of.  
   
 Q.   How much do you talk to Billy?   You still tapping advice from him every now and then?   
JOAKIM NOAH:   All the time.   All the time.   He was the best coach I've ever had.   Somebody who understands me as a person and as a player, and that's why I always go back.  
   
 Q.   I've talked to you about how you've changed on the court, but you seem like you're always true to yourself.   Is that something you've taken pride in and stayed as the same guy you've entered the league personality‑wise?  
JOAKIM NOAH:   You know, it's pretty crazy like everything that goes on in this league.   And it's easy to get caught up.   So it's very important to know who you are as a person because you can very easily get caught up.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT