NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 23, 2011
Joakim Noah
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jo, you have had some time to think about not only the loss last night, but your controversy. What are your thoughts now after you have had a chance to really process everything?   
 JOAKIM NOAH: You know, tough game yesterday. Just losing the game was definitely tough. I learn from my mistakes. I think that with the comment to the fan, I just want to apologize about that. I had just picked up my second foul. I frustrated. He said something that was disrespectful towards me, and I lost my cool.   
 I'm not -- people who know me know I'm an open-minded guy. I'm not here to hurt anybody's feelings. I'm just here to, you know, help win a basketball game.   
  
  Q. Jo, has the league contacted you about that?   
 JOAKIM NOAH: Yes.   
  
  Q. And is there going to be a fine?   
 JOAKIM NOAH: Probably.   
  
  Q. They didn't tell you for sure?   
 JOAKIM NOAH: Not yet. But there will be a fine, yes.   
  
  Q. What were the conditions like during the game for you guys sitting on the bench? Were these fans trying to get under your skin and saying other things to other players as well as yourself?   
 JOAKIM NOAH: No, I mean, I've been dealing with that for a long time. But sometimes fans say things that are a little bit overboard. But still, it's on us not to react. If you react, they win. And I did.   
 So, you know, it was a bad decision on my part, and I'm going to face some pretty severe consequences.   
  
  Q. Jo, did you know right away? Did you realize what was said right away? Or were you not aware of it until maybe it was brought up to you post game?   
 JOAKIM NOAH: Not until it was brought up to me post game. But I'll remember. I'll remember for a long time.   
  
  Q. What can you do to keep your emotions in check? Seems like you were too hyped for last night's game.   
 JOAKIM NOAH: It's a big game. I got frustrated, and I let my emotions get the best of me.   
  
  Q. I'm talking about just in terms of your play. Do you think you were over-hyped? Did that affect your play?   
 JOAKIM NOAH: Maybe. Maybe.   
  
  Q. What can you guys do to get the offense going?   
 JOAKIM NOAH: Make some shots, get to the paint, be more aggressive going to the basket. I think we're getting a lot of shots at the basket. A lot more than they are. But you know, the games are really close, so there's definitely some mental breakdowns at the end, and things that we need to clean up.   
  
  Q. I know easy baskets are harder in the playoffs, but it does seem a lot of times in the half court you guys are struggling to fight the shot clock and using a lot of clock before you get a shot off. Is there anything you can do offensively to be a little crisper in the half court?   
 JOAKIM NOAH: We'll see tomorrow. I think just playing faster, playing more in transition will help us.   
  
  Q. Has this team's confidence been shaken at all by the last two games? Or are you guys still rock-steady?   
 JOAKIM NOAH: No, I think -- Thibs always talks about walking through a fire together. That's what it's all about. You win Game 1, there is a lot of love after the game. You lose two, it's like the end of the world. But if we can get this one on Tuesday tied up going home, that would be a good position to be in.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT