RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2010
Jon Mills
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 10-under out there, Jon. You got almost halfway.
 JON MILLS: Yeah.

 Q. I mean right now as we're going into the final day, I mean is it possible for anyone on the --
 JON MILLS: I think so. If you get up there and get some good conditions, there's some birdies to be made out there with -- you know, the greens aren't as firm as they probably would like, but you can go after pins, and you know, that's kind of what I did early on. I think I made five birdies on the front nine. You know, if you can kind of get that going and keep it going, who knows what'll happen.

 Q. The stretch of four birdies in five holes early, that must have given you some confidence?
 JON MILLS: Yeah. I felt like I was hitting it the same. I hadn't really changed anything, but I worked on some putting with Bob Skura last night and some kind of just mental thoughts and stuff, and it paid off. I mean right off the start I started making all these putts, and it was real nice.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 JON MILLS: Well, it was just, you know, I've had a tough time all week with the speed. I haven't been able to get the ball to the hole, and today -- we talked last night, but today I went up there and really kind of picked a spot past the hole and tried to putt to that, and it worked.

 Q. Jon, have you ever seen a better par than what Aaron did on 10 with that tee shot?
 JON MILLS: (Laughs). We were talking about that, yeah. That might be one of the best pars I've ever seen.

 Q. Do you know what happened? He said a bug kind of flew --
 JON MILLS: He said a bug flew in and he tried to stop his swing, but it still continued and caught the ball. It was a great par. 

 Q. On 18, that was a tough par for you.
 JON MILLS: It was. I actually got pretty fortunate. I had a good lie in the rough. I just didn't want to push it with a 5-iron. I figured if it jumped, I can get a 6-iron there. And just one of those things, the chip, I didn't hit a great chip, but still hit a good putt and gave myself a chance.

 Q. Just after three rounds, your thoughts and your feelings on --
 JON MILLS: I'm excited. Yeah, this is obviously nice to play well in front of a hometown crowd. And you know, it's been a couple years since I've been on the TOUR, and I was really looking forward to playing this week. 
 And I'm just going to kind of go with what got me here and just kind of have fun with it and go with that tomorrow.

 Q. In the past, Jon, you've bypassed this obviously because you're trying to get your Nationwide card.
 JON MILLS: Yeah.

 Q. What brought you out here?
 JON MILLS: I looked at it -- it has been a couple years. And you know, I looked at it as wanting to play my Canadian Open, but also using it as kind of a motivation to get out here and play with these guys and kind of get my motivation back to want to be back out here next year.

 Q. Did St. George's play a factor in you coming, because I know you played this course a lot when you were younger.
 JON MILLS: Not necessarily. I would have played it no matter where it was, but obviously St. George's is a course I've played a lot at, played a lot of junior golf here. So it's definitely familiar to me, so that helps, but it wasn't the only reason.

 Q. What do you hope to accomplish tomorrow?
 JON MILLS: That's a good question. I'm just going to -- you know, obviously I want to go out there and continue what I'm doing and work on, you know, going to work on the greens. But just have fun with it. 
 You know, I find when I go out there and have fun on the golf course, it's when I play my best. So I'm just going to do it and try to do that.

 Q. Were you thinking at all about the chance to maybe get into next week's event?
 JON MILLS: Yeah. It's obviously a little thought in the back of my mind, but it's not something I'm thinking about right now. I just want to get out there and post a good number and see what happens.

 Q. Did that surprise you at all that there was a 60 out there?
 JON MILLS: A little surprising. You know, you come into this week, obviously you see the setup, and you got the long rough, and the greens -- the greens are tough. 
 The greens, you know, they bump a little bit, and they -- you know, it's tough to make a lot of putts really. And to go out there and shoot 10-under par, you gotta hit the ball well and you gotta make a lot of putts. And obviously he did it.

 Q. Obviously earlier this week a lot of the players, and I'm sure you agree, that now they've come in here and they played with the greens and they looked at the rough and they went this is going to be a tough tournament.
 JON MILLS: Yeah.

 Q. And then all of a sudden -- is it just the conditions?
 JON MILLS: Well, I think the rainfall we had the other night definitely softened it up. And like I said earlier, it gives you that ability to go at the pins more and stop it. 
 And you know, when you have those conditions, no matter what course, you know, there's going to be some low scores. 
 So you know, who knows what'll happen this afternoon, if they get any rain or into the evening, but I can't see this course playing much different tomorrow.

 Q. Right. Yeah. Is that -- I know St. George's is always considered one of the top courses in Canada.
 JON MILLS: Yeah. You know, it's just one of those things. You know, obviously the scores would be a lot different if it was firm and fast and the greens were firm, and guys wouldn't be able to hold the greens if they hit it in the rough and it would make for a tough week.

 Q. When you look at what your season will hold after this event, do you have thoughts on what you need to do on Nationwide in terms of the specific money or spot you have to get to, like a number?
 JON MILLS: Yeah. You know, I guess going forward I realize the importance of getting as high as you can on the Money List, going into next year with the -- you know, with your number, trying to get in events. But obviously that's a goal, to get as high as I can. 
 But you know, something like this where I come up here and play well here, you know, I'm just going to use that as kind of a building block for the rest of the year and kind of use that as motivation really and just add to my confidence, I guess.

 Q. Right now you're 28, aren't you?
 JON MILLS: 26.

 Q. 26? Because earlier in the year you actually got up to like -- was it 14, 15?
 JON MILLS: Yeah. I think -- it depends on the week. It can fluctuate so much. I think two weeks ago I moved six or seven spots, and the following week I moved back up by five or six. So it's just you gotta stay patient, and you know, if you lose 5 to 10 spots in one week, don't worry about it. Just keep plugging away.

 Q. Have you learned over the years maybe not to react to that as much?
 JON MILLS: Yeah. Definitely. And I think I feel like I do a good job of that, not kind of worrying about that. 

 Q. Jon, sorry if I missed this earlier. Are you happy to be done (indiscernible) the way they are?
 JON MILLS: Yeah. You know, I think my caddy and I may catch a movie this afternoon and just relax. And you know, if the weather gets bad, well, I'm off the golf course. So yeah. 

 Q. You're dry. What movie?
 JON MILLS: Maybe "Inception." I haven't seen it yet. 

 Q. Is Megan up with you?
 JON MILLS: No. She was going to come on the weekend, but they've got a big week next week. They're all driving out to Omaha, and it's kind of a little family reunion for her. So they're just kind of taking it easy at home and meet us up there in Omaha.

 Q. Tell her we miss her.
 JON MILLS: I will.

 Q. We'd rather have her here than you.
 JON MILLS: (Laughs). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT