U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 19, 2008
Jon Mills
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART MOORE: Jon Mills, thanks for joining us here after a third round 64 here at the U.S. Bank Championship. You started on the back nine and ended up with at least a portion of the lead at this point heading into the final round. A lot of guys still on the course, but you have to be really happy with your performance today. Maybe some opening comments? 
 JON MILLS: Yeah, obviously great to be in this situation. I felt like I played pretty decent the last six or seven weeks and haven't really put together a good weekend, so nice to kind of start on a good round and get in contention.
 STEWART MOORE: You mentioned that you played well the last five or six weeks. You've made -- I think this is your seventh cut in a row you've made. I think you are still searching for your first top-ten, but you've played a lot more consistently this stint on the PGA Tour versus a couple years ago. Maybe talk about your growth as a player and heading into next week. Obviously, you'd love to win tomorrow and next week is important for you as well.
 JON MILLS: Yeah, you know, I was out here two years ago. It was my rookie year, and I struggled. But I went back to Nationwide and gained a lot of confidence playing well there. 
 My goal was to get back, and I played well enough to do that. And, you know, I think just overall with the experience that I gained two years ago and with playing the golf courses again the second time it definitely helps. Hopefully it continues into next week.

 Q. What was the key for you today? Was it the putting, driving the ball, or what?
 JON MILLS: I think it was a little bit of everything really. I drove the ball pretty well. 
 Early on, with the conditions the way they were with that kind of soft rain, I had a lot longer shots on the greens, but I still made good iron shots and gave myself birdie opportunities, and I took advantage of that. And I felt like I putted really well today. Not entirely sure how many putts I ended up with, but, you know, seemed like every time I gave myself an opportunity I took advantage of it.

 Q. Can you go through your birdies?
 JON MILLS: Sure. I bogeyed 12, off the start. Kind of hit a bad tee shot there, but bounced back with a birdie on 13.

 Q. (Question about 13.)
 JON MILLS: Good question. I don't even know what I did on 13. Trying to think what 13 is. 
 Anyway, 16 -- I birdied 16 and 17. Those -- one made a long putt on -- well, 16 I hit it to about seven feet, made that putt. 17, made about a, I think it was probably 30, 35-foot putt. Then on the front nine, the third hole, I hit it in there to around six, seven feet again. Number 5, Par three there, I hit it six, seven feet. Six, Par 5, hit it in two, hit driver, 2-iron to about 30 feet and two-putted that. Then 8, I hit it, probably made about a 15-footer on that.

 Q. You made about a ten-foot putt on Number 9 to save par I believe?
 JON MILLS: No. I didn't actually. On nine I hit on and two-putt.

 Q. You made back-to-back birdies, that's got to be (inaudible). 
 JON MILLS: Yeah. You know, for the most part too I wasn't really paying too much attention to the leader board, so I didn't really know the situation I was in. Especially when you are finishing on the front nine, you don't see much, you know, see what's going on. 
 I think it wasn't until six, the Par 5 with the leader board there that I really noticed what was going on. I think at that time I was maybe one back. 
 But, you know, it definitely helps the momentum when you can make some birdies out there. And, you know, especially after the rain stopped, it was fairly calm and you could get pretty aggressive with some of the pins. 

 Q. (Question about seeing the leader board and being in contention.)
 JON MILLS: Definitely. But, you know, I had two-putt for birdie there after seeing the position I was in. The next hole, a par 3, hit a great 4-iron there to the middle of the green, kind of what you have to do there, and proceeded to birdie on eight as well. So I kept kind of pushing forward because I know there's a lot of birdies out there and those guys are going to be finishing on 18.

 Q. When did you see the leader board when you were on 16?
 JON MILLS: It would be -- it would have been my 15th hole of the day. It was the 6th hole.

 Q. Do you think it will be nice to start on the right nine tomorrow?
 JON MILLS: Yeah. I like the front nine. I've played well on the front nine all week. 
 You know, just getting in this position -- you know, I've been in this position a lot on the Nationwide Tour but not out here. So obviously getting in the position is great and definitely take some positives out of the experience.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT