THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 11, 2006
Jon Mills
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JON MILLS:  It was an awesome start.  You know, early on, I had some longer putts and it seemed like finally everything just fell in for me and got a couple good breaks.  Back nine had been giving me trouble all week, and I get up there and didn't take advantage of 12, didn't birdie 12, and then, you know, just still hit some good shots, but just didn't get maybe some of the same breaks.  Just didn't get into that flow.
Q.  How big did the hole look when you were putting?
JON MILLS:  It was pretty big.  (Laughing).  Just over every putt, it felt like I could make it if I was on the green, which is a very nice feeling.
Q.  When is the last time you had that feeling?
JON MILLS:  A few times last year.
Q.  Did the wind pick up quite a bit out there?
JON MILLS:  It did.  And again, you know, a lot of front nine, it's helping.  So it turned around on I think 12 or 13 or whatever it you start getting back into the wind, it's pretty tough.  Tough finishing holes.

But just tried to take it where I could get it and go from there.
Q.  A lot of times when players start like that, they have to kind of reel themselves back in and not start getting ahead of themselves.
JON MILLS:  Yeah, I possibly thought a little bit of that.  You know, at least my mentality, I get that kind of start, that many under par, I just try to keep going for it.  I guess the only fault I have, I may be a little too aggressive.  And a couple shots on the back nine, 13, I hit a really good iron shot in there and landed it two feet right of the hole and it went over the green, so I was dead from there.

I was aggressive on the par 3, as well, where I hit a good 6 iron just a little left of the hole and caught the slope and went down left of the green.  But, what do you do.
Q.  Have you ever started 7 under after 8 before?
JON MILLS:  No.  I was telling my caddie, I think that might have been the first time I've shot 29 in competition.  I don't think I did it at Omaha.  I think I shot 60, that was the first time I've shot 29 in competition, yeah.
Q.  30/30 last year?
JON MILLS:  I think it was, yeah, in Omaha.
Q.  Did you ever shoot like that    inaudible?
JON MILLS:  I had a couple, I had a putt on the 18th hole to go 29 on the back side, didn't make it.
Q.  When you start the way you did, is that only natural to be overaggressive coming in?
JON MILLS:  For me, I feel so good over the ball, I was just    you know, I think it helped, I got some good breaks early, too.  So where balls a foot left would have been down a hill but they stayed up.  So that kind of gave me that kind of no fear mentality, I guess.  Brought me back to reality when I hit a couple that went down some slopes.
Q.  18, you just pushed it?
JON MILLS:  Yeah, actually my last three drives, I just kind of pushed a little bit.  On 18, you push it a little bit, that wind takes it.  Sneaks up on you on right.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT