THE IRISH OPEN
June 19, 2014
Michael Hoey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   An excellent round one here at Fota Island.   
MICHAEL HOEY:   Happy enough with the score.   Obviously perfect weather which is great.   Fairways are quite hard to fit because they are firm and quite narrow, so it's not playing that easy, even though some of the holes are quite short and on 18 you have to think about what you were doing and I was happy to finish with a birdie.  
   
 Q.   Could you have gone even lower today?   
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, wasn't my best, but pro golf is about getting it around, and normally I don't do that as well as I did today.   
   
 Q.   Course record leads the tournament, you put yourself right in contention early on.   
MICHAEL HOEY:   Last year at Carton House, got off to a great start and fell away.   Hopefully I can improve every day.   It's amazing if you improve every day, you actually finish a lot higher than if you start well and kind of level out a bit.   
   
 Q.   Good buzz with the crowd and support today?  
MICHAEL HOEY:   Oh, yeah, it's unbelievable.   It's always a special tournament in weather like this.   I holed a couple 30‑footers out there and it's a good atmosphere.   
   
 Q.   When you hole putts like that, it really does the confidence good, doesn't it?   
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, they are taking their hat off and celebrating as if you won a tournament; which, you know, you play in China with more Monday and there's not many spectators, so it's just really good.   
   
 Q.   What's the plan for tomorrow, more of the same?   
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, off early.   Greens will be a little bit better.   They are a little bit bumpy this afternoon, so hopefully they will hole more putts.   They get a bit quick.   My caddie is just telling me to try and keep it a bit smoother.   
   
 Q.   You've been a multiple winner on The European Tour but winning your National Open must rank up there being a career highlight if you can do it.   
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, incredible.   Hopefully the crowd can help me along the next few days and hole a few putts and enjoy it.   Obviously won Dunhill Links, my biggest, but this would be even bigger.  
   
 Q.   You've upstaged the major stars this afternoon.   
MICHAEL HOEY:   I didn't think I would after nine holes.   I wasn't playing great, but finished strong.   No, they will be back strong tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT