ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2013
Michael Hoey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on where you are in this tournament after another nice day? 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Good position.   Greens were pure and then still holed a few putts, which is why‑‑ I didn't actually hit the ball great but I'm still hanging around, putting well.   Continue putting well tomorrow, find the swing a little bit more, then I could have a really good chance. 
But I need to find the swing a little.   I'm going to hit a couple shots on the range.   But we had the Irish conditions today and it was on and off; it was familiar.

Q.   Tricky in the winds, as well, I guess. 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, very hard to judge, and it funnels down some holes.   You just have to sort of trust‑‑ hit a perfect shot into 17, but the wind just dried a little bit as the drizzle came on and came out just four yards short.   Another few yards, really good birdie chance; a very clumsy up‑and‑down.   It's just enjoyable.   Good atmosphere, good crowds, and that's what I'm enjoying.

Q.   Presumably that helped having a local, Jason Scrivener alongside you. 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, he's a great young player, swings it brilliant, like a lot of the Aussies do.   Great player.   I'm sure he looks very young‑‑ he'll do well now, there's no doubt.

Q.   And that helps with the atmosphere, with the following, with the build up? 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, there's quite a few Irish here, as well.   I see guys watching me today, which helps a bit when you hole a few putts.   You can hear some of them saying, well done.   Doesn't feel like far from home really I guess, even though we are a long way from home.   Yeah, looking forward to tomorrow.

Q.   And in a lovely position, absolutely. 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, you never know in this game.   It's a funny game.   See what happens.   

Q.   It's funny with you, sometimes we don't see you for a month and then you're suddenly up there?
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, I'm extremely‑‑ I am very inconsistent, but I'm moving away from that I think, and this is another example of it, so that's my plan, to move away from the inconsistency. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT