BMW MASTERS
October 25, 2012
Michael Hoey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   67 is some score. 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, the course is long.   There's a few chances on the par 5s, but there's some long par 4s.   Driver 3‑iron into three of them.   Greens are running well and you know, there are chances but you have to hit the ball quite solid off the tee because it's quite long.

Q.   There is a score to be made, isn't there?
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yes, they are pretty wide off the tee and pretty generous landing areas.   You know, the greens are quite soft and there's not really much wind but we did have a bit of unexpected rain earlier, so it was playing quite tough.   It's enjoyable.   It's a modern course. 

Q.   61st in The Race to Dubai; be great to carry on, wouldn't? 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, it would be nice to play well.   I'm into Singapore and Hong Kong, so just not looking at the board too much.   Anything can happen.   There's Quiros and guys who are well beneath who could make two or three hundred grand in a heartbeat, so you can't really look at it and say, I need to take ten grand, 15 grand, that doesn't work.   Just one shot at a time. 

Q.   How good is that to start?
MICHAEL HOEY:   Nice, birdied the first hole.   Hit a good shot in there and holed a 10‑footer.   I hit a great putt on the second, just kind of slow lip‑out, and solid after that.   Played a 6‑iron close on the 4th, and no bogeys, that was the main thing.   I was happy with not really any mistakes.   I got up‑and‑down for par on 13. 
But a little bit disappointed with the finish because there's a couple par 5s, just over the back on 12, 13.   Didn't get up‑and‑down, hit a really good chip but it was an inch away from rolling down the hill.   I felt disappointed that I didn't finish probably at 6, but at end of the day, would have taken that.   Gives me a bit of a lie‑in and probably playing with a few of the world's best players tomorrow, so that's always good.

Q.   On what is a long and challenging course?
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, it's quite enjoyable, because if you're quite long, then you can sort of give it a rip off the tee.   But at the same time, you have to focus on a small target because it is so wide, you can potentially stand up and hit it as hard as you can.   But the greens are slopey and there is a bit of water in play for the second shots. 

Q.   A bit of danger out there in terms of the water and the bunkering?
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, I think Jack Nicklaus does the greens angled so that if you're too greedy and push it slightly or pull it, it's in the water, so you have to think about what you're doing. 

Q.   You weren't greedy?
MICHAEL HOEY:   No, I was quite good.   No bogeys is a rarity for me. 

Q.   I suppose when you're playing as well as you have and scored like that, you are tempted to go for a few more?
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, disappointed I didn't birdie one of the last few holes, but holed a few putts. 

Q.   Make any difference with the weather change?   You started off, it was nice and dry and a bit of rain came in?
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, it was really difficult when the heavy bit came down.   Playing the 9th, one of the hardest holes on the course in the downpour; like playing back home.   So it wasn't expected, I thought the weather was a bit better today. 
Yeah, it's ideal conditions now. 

Q.   You've been out here a few times in China now, how does this compare to other tracks you've played? 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, very similar to Chendu last year and Volvo China Open this year.   Suits the longer hitters, Quiros, Colsaerts, Branden Grace.   If I'm swinging well, I can hit it reasonably well.   They are inviting.   You can stand up and give it a good rip, but you still have to think about what you're doing. 

Q.   I know you've been asked by others, but what's your thoughts on Race to Dubai, because you're in that precarious position at the moment?
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, got overtaken by a few guys last week, but anything can happen.   Fortunate I'm into this tournament, really lucky to be in, because I haven't played great since Morocco, but I earned my spot, and then Singapore and Hong Kong, massive money.   So if I play decent, should I make it easily, but if I don't, I won't make it.   I said to myself, if you don't play well, you don't make it, simple as that.
I would love to be there, $8 million prize fund, and it's World Ranking points, so I really would be disappointed but good start today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT