JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2012
Michael Hoey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Before we talk about your play, clear up what happened at 16; your score was revised from 5 to a 7.   
MICHAEL HOEY:   I was in a ground under repair and it's a free drop but because it's preferred lies, I missed a step in my head.   I thought, well, drop it in and you're going to have a preferred lie, anyway, so I went ahead and I just placed it.   But because I missed the drop‑in step, it's two shots.   
I just played a little bit too quick and need to just take a little bit more time in situations like, that because you have to actually drop the ball and then prefer lie.   I sort of did a shortcut in my mind.   But you need to be very careful and the US PGA as well, I disqualified myself after a great run on the Friday.   So, yeah, I think I just need to call a ref if not 100   per cent sure.  
   
 Q.   What about your play?  
MICHAEL HOEY:   I played really well.   Starting to swing the club better.   Probably should have been 5‑under.   But at least take the positives.  
   
 Q.   Your results have not been great since you within in Morocco, have you felt it turning before this?  
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, just in the US PGA there, I worked on rhythm, swing gets a bit quick, with Jamie Gough, my coach, and my putting has been improving, and I hit some nice putts today.   The course is better with the changes.  
   
 Q.   Talk about how the game is turning around, because you were really down in the dumps at the time?  
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, just it wasn't‑‑ wasn't energized for four or five weeks and didn't rest enough.   And before you know it, you're going out there with no energy.   I was actually in a really bad time in Wentworth, because I went to a rugby match and had sort of a few drinks at the Ulster final just before Wentworth, so everything was going great.   Then get a bit of a cold, went ahead and played Wales with all the Pro‑Ams, and then went to Sweden.   Probably should have taken two weeks off there.   Just didn't really recover.   It just went on through five or six weeks feeling just not great concentration level.   But I'm hitting it a lot better now.  
   
 Q.   I seem to recall you saying just needed to take a step back and just needed to work on things a bit rather than go through them out on the course again.   
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, I tend to get into technique and need to keep it a little bit more simple.   It's my own fault because I like to dabble and fiddle with the swing like I do, but a lot of time you just keep your rhythm and work on your short game.   It's not that complicated, golf, but we can make it really complicated.  
   
 Q.   Is it just one of these things that kicks back into place?  
MICHAEL HOEY:   Because it was so windy in that second round in the US PGA, the swing thoughts went out the window.   It was just a matter of keeping it smooth at the top and trying to play shots.   
And if I can do that in a major, then I did some of that today.   I kept it pretty smooth.   It not a technical thing.   It's just rhythm.   
   
 Q.   And essentially you're in a nice place after one round, aren't you?   
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, even with that stupidity of just getting ahead of myself really, even with that I'm in a good position.   Doesn't feel as bad.   But should have been‑‑ yeah, I'm still 4‑ or 5‑under but score is not that low.   I'm still in a good position.   
   
 Q.   Do you twig after you dig it?   
MICHAEL HOEY:   I only realised‑‑ I saw Shaun Micheel drop on the second and he was taking a drop from casual water and I thought, that's a drop‑‑ I didn't drop that ball.   And I had it in Malaysia last year and I didn't drop it because‑‑ (Inaudible.) You think you're being clever.   It's almost like, you have to go through the procedure and then prefer lie.   
So just take a little bit of time I suppose.   Frustrating I know.   
   
 Q.   Did you realise it?   
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, my caddie said he didn't see me drop but‑‑ (Inaudible.)  
   
 Q.   He said, when, on the second?   
MICHAEL HOEY:   No, Ross didn't call it.   He said it to my caddie also and my caddie thought I dropped it but then I knew I definitely didn't do that.   So there we go.   At least I'm not disqualified.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
MICHAEL HOEY:   See, the rules guys expect you to know procedures like that, because they told us that they don't want to be running out for very straightforward procedures.   They expect players to know about, you can make a mistake easily.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT