THE IRISH OPEN
July 1, 2012
Michael Hoey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How would you sum up your entire week here? 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Really good.   I gave myself a chance yesterday, finishing poorly cost me because the guys are low scoring today, but still I gave myself a chance, and, you know, that was good. 

Q.   You mentioned the crowds, they have just been fantastic all week.   What has it been like atmosphere‑wise? 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Quite draining actually, trying to acknowledge everyone and trying to stay relaxed because you can get too excited, it's like a football match or something.     Unbelievable.   All of the players are saying this is by far the best tournament they have been to crowd‑wise. 

Q.   And I guess that's a real encouraging sign whenever they are wanting to possibly host The Open Championship here; do you think after the success of this week that it can come here? 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, logistically, they have done an unbelievably good job, 130,000 people, that's a big part of having The Open Championship, and the golf course, it's awesome, and the atmosphere.   It's a step in the right direction.

Q.   And all of the players wanting to come back and want to come that have not been here before; what's the feeling like in the locker room?   What's everyone been saying?
MICHAEL HOEY:   The guys can't fault the golf course; there's not one thing they can say they would like to have an improvement today.   Oscar said golf is big in Sweden, really big but these crowds make it look small.   Just really enjoyable right to the end, brilliant.

Q.   And what's next up for you now?
MICHAEL HOEY:   French Open next week, so the circus just keeps going.   I'll take the positives from this week and just looking forward to it.   And I've got The Open obviously so a lot of big stuff coming up. 

Q.   Good preparation for that on a links course? 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Yeah, and these crowds are maybe bigger than The Open crowds.   It's unbelievable.   Just exciting couple of months coming up. 
Really enjoyed it.   2‑under was solid.   If three or four putts could have holed, I could have challenged for top Northern Irishman.   I hit some really good shots but yesterday's finish just sort of cost me a chance.

Q.   Your overall assessment of how successful this tournament has been this week?
MICHAEL HOEY:   I played with Oscar Floren, a Swedish player, and golf is massive in Sweden and they have got big crowds, but nothing like this.   And the noise here, he said he would need earmuffs on the 18th in case I holed that putt.   And the logistics, as well, 130,000 people, the logistics have been awesome.   We have been in Portballintrae, and we have not had any delays getting here, so it's been good.

Q.   When would you like to see the tournament coming back to Royal Portrush? 
MICHAEL HOEY:   Everyone would say as soon as possible.   The golf course is flawless really.   The crowd, no matter what the weather is like, it's 30,000 a day.   So, yeah, as soon as possible.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT