3 IRISH OPEN
July 30, 2010
Michael Hoey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL HOEY: I didn't play great to start. Bogeyed 5, hit it in the water on 5. There's some really tough pin positions out there today and the 5th was really tough. Put it in the water and got up-and-down for bogey and made a really nice birdie on the next. Was quite relaxed after and bounced back after which is probably the key, just to trust your key and keep swinging. 
 I bogeyed 8 and birdied 9, and three nice birdies, 15, 16, 17. Hit really good shots in and read the putts well. Just enjoyed. Good support, as well. Just enjoyed it.

 Q. Ross Fisher, your stablemate, shooting 61; what do you make of that?
 MICHAEL HOEY: We were talking about that in the group, with Stephen Gallacher there. The greens are really tough to read; they are subtle breaks, but he obviously has not struggled to read them. But he's such a long hitter, so he can hit it miles out there and that's an advantage. 
 Yeah, it's impressive stuff.

 Q. How do you feel to have made your first cut in an Irish Open? 
 MICHAEL HOEY: The first cut in the Irish Open and not far off the lead. I said to myself, not going to put pressure on myself, but I have to make a cut in this tournament. But how do you do that, just keep swinging, keep the rhythm nice and smooth and stay relaxed. 
 So really happy that I've been staying relaxed on the golf course, and just looking forward to the next two days.

 Q. No stamina problems at all? 
 MICHAEL HOEY: Not really. Sleeping good. The relaxation thing, burning the energy and was hitting the ball pretty long. Yeah, feeling good. 

 Q. What about prospects for the weekend now? 
 MICHAEL HOEY: Yeah, just same old golf adage, one shot at a time. I'm sure I'll get a nice draw tomorrow. I hope the weather is not too bad; I think a mixed forecast. As I said, tough pin positions. It's going to be tricky.

 Q. You seem to play well in the tough conditions, but would you rather the sun was shining? 
 MICHAEL HOEY: Yesterday was really nice because it's probably easier for spectators and a little bit more atmosphere, but no, it suits us pretty well. But it's the sort of course that you think you should tear it up and you think you should be 5-, 6-, 7-under but it's not as straightforward as that. It can catch you out. 

 Q. You're alongside Pádraig Harrington; would you relish the chance to play with him?
 MICHAEL HOEY: I've never played with him in tournament play. We've played a few practise rounds. Just focus on my own game but that's what I've been practising for, to try to get in a position and been working pretty hard so just take it as it comes, you know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT