3 IRISH OPEN
July 29, 2010
Michael Hoey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell me about a good day. 
 MICHAEL HOEY: Yeah, enjoyed it. Slightly slow start, but plenty of pars the first six holes, but 6, tough par 3 and we were waiting on the tee box for 25 minutes; so just sort of to keep it going at level is okay. I birdied 10, 11; 11 is almost a par 5 length so that was almost like a sort of birdie and a half, if you like, and I birdied 13. 
 So, yeah, 4-under after that and nice birdie on 17, the par 5, but no bogeys. Really happy no bogeys. I probably only had ten rounds in my life without a bogey. So the more of those the better.

 Q. The wind got up in the afternoon?
 MICHAEL HOEY: It did. The last few holes were trickier definitely going back into the wind. But we'll see a lot of wind here the next few days and it will be a lot windier still. 

 Q. Compared to Sweden, this is luxury. 
 MICHAEL HOEY: Yeah, Sweden was a very long golf course, but a great golf course. But it was physically quite demanding playing off the back tee. 
 But I just want to do well in this tournament, because I've never done well. 

 Q. I saw you walking up that hill from the 18th in Bro Hof and it was fatigue taking hold. It was a long, tiring day but I presume with the crowd support --
 MICHAEL HOEY: Yeah, just to feel it, definitely, towards the end. It's not as long a golf course but quite a few from the north have come down and obviously there's going to be a lot of people at the weekend, so it's just a great tournament, good atmosphere. 
 And Sweden was the same, such a well-supported event.

 Q. I take it it's good to have back-to-back good weeks because it had not happened in a while for you?
 MICHAEL HOEY: Yeah, it's been a long time. Madeira was good this year, I really enjoyed it. I finished 6th there and my 11th in the French Open was big for me. It was a really good field. 

 Q. Swing changes as much as anything?
 MICHAEL HOEY: Yeah, just trying to stay more relaxed on the golf course and just to believe in myself more, as well. But you do that when you're hitting the ball better, it all sorts of comes together. Just to relax a bit more, definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT