LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2001
Kellee Booth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KELLEE BOOTH:  No. 11 I made about a 25-footer down the hill for birdie.  I hit a 6-iron into the green no idea what the yardage was.  Then 15 I hit pitching wedge to about four feet, and rolled that in for birdie.  17 I hit  -- what club was it  -- I have 3 sand wedges.  I think it was my 52 degree wedge in to about two feet; made that putt for birdie.  And unfortunately made bogey on No. 1, hit a good tee shot and hit my second  -- my 8-iron to the right of the green short and hit the chip about ten feet past; then missed that putt. No. 2, I hit 5-wood into the green to about 30 feet, 2-putted for birdie.  No. 5, I hit an 8-iron to five feet, made the putt for eagle. Playing a little short today (laughs). 6, I hit pitching wedge in to four feet, made that putt for birdie. 

Q.  Talk about the condition of the course and how the course is playing today.

KELLEE BOOTH: Condition of the course is beautiful.  It was nice to have the wind blowing, to keep the bugs away. Made it a little tricky at times because it was swirling out there; it would be behind us and then it switched to being across.  That was a little challenging, but the course conditions are beautiful.

Q.  (Inaudible)

KELLEE BOOTH: It's the best round in my LPGA career.  Just real consistent, you know, aside from the bogey on 1, hit the ball fairly well, hit it in the right places and made some putts. 

Q.  (Inaudible)

KELLEE BOOTH: Probably when I hit it in close on 17 and made the putt and then on 18 I hit my tee shot underneath one of the pine trees on the left and thought I hit a really good second shot out and it chipped one little piece of the tree as it was trying to go under, ended up in the middle of the fairway and I hit a 52 degree wedge to about ten feet, rolled that in.  I think that's when I knew things were going my way again.

Q.  Now that you had your best round of your LPGA career, what are the chances that this can become the best tournament you had in your career?

KELLEE BOOTH: I think if I continue to play consistently and hit the ball in the fairways, get the ball on the greens, hopefully those putts will continue to roll in this week.

Q.  Talk about hole 5, a lot of people were getting eagles.  What was good for you and everybody else?

KELLEE BOOTH: I hit a great drive down there, little draw around the corner because it was playing downwind, you know, left with the short iron into the green and just really peered the 8-iron up to there to five feet.  Real nice to have a short putt for eagle.

Q.  (Inaudible)

KELLEE BOOTH: I am going to go out just like I did today, think positive and work with Adam Hayes, my caddie, and really try to think our way around the golf course tomorrow.  It is going to be a little different, probably a little more wet out there because we are out there earlier in the morning, but maybe the greens will be a little smoother and more putts will go in, who knows.

Q.  (Inaudible)

KELLEE BOOTH: There were a few solid rounds leading up to this.  I played real well in both Atlanta and Nashville.  Then I took last week off, went home, kind of relaxed for a little bit, took a few days off; then got back into the swing of things.  It is kind of funny, I don't think I would ever say this in most instances, but I think having Adam on my bag the last three weeks has really been a major help.  I feel a lot more confident out there and hitting good shots, making good decisions and playing much better golf than I was four weeks ago. 

Q.  When you were out there the (inaudible) seems to be scoring pretty well today.  Does that give you some confidence knowing that you could go in and hit a low score?

KELLEE BOOTH: It did.  It was kind of interesting when you look at the scores, all the real slow scores looked like they were posted in the morning.  There weren't a whole lot of players in the afternoon were lighting it up right away.  Then I thought well maybe they haven't played as many holes yet.  That was probably the reason.  But I knew that there were some birdies left out there and it is just a matter of grasping them while you can. 

Q.  When did you caddy start with you? (Inaudible)

KELLEE BOOTH: Actually starting in Atlanta, he started working for me, my caddie and I; had my dad on the bag the week before and we made a bad decision on the last hole and missed the cut.  One of those things in Austin.  But it is nice to have somebody out here.  I know I do not have to depend on having my dad come along with me every week now.

Q.  (Inaudible)

KELLEE BOOTH: My dad caddied on and off most of this year.

Q.  And when did you meet Adam? (Inaudible)

KELLEE BOOTH: I met him probably in January of this year. 

Q.  (Inaudible)

KELLEE BOOTH: I am definitely gaining confidence out there.  It is nice to see my name out there on the leaderboard.  Just try not to watch it too much because you can't get wrapped up in what is going on the leaderboard and forget about what you have to do on the golf course. 

Q.  (Inaudible)

KELLEE BOOTH: I am glad to see that some of the younger players have been up on the leaderboard especially the last couple weeks.  Maybe we will give them a better run for their money this week which will be nice.  I know Juli Inkster said to me on the plane on the way back after she won Eletrolux, she said:  These young players have to step up and start winning some tournaments; don't leave it up to the 40 plus group to win all the events this year. 

Q.  How is it going to affect your game if the weather takes a turn for the worst as it is supposed to do this weekend?  Will it be to your advantage?

KELLEE BOOTH: Let us just hope it doesn't happen.  (Laughs).  Obviously the prediction today was wrong once again.  They said afternoon thunder showers and I don't see any thunder storms coming in now.  So maybe they will be incorrect in their forecast for the next couple days.  But if it does I have played a lot of high school golf in the rain.  We weren't going to cancel a match if it was raining and we are here in Southern California and in the spring it is going to rain, so hopefully just go out there and be patient and get through it. 

Q.  This your first time at Corning?

KELLEE BOOTH: I played last year.

Q.  What do you think of the course, and the community?

KELLEE BOOTH: The community is wonderful.  They all come out and support the event, it is amazing, the Pro-Am and all the support that they have for the tournament and the crowds that come out, it is wonderful.  The course is beautiful.  It is very challenging.  It is a typical traditional course.  You can't blast driver off every tee. You really have to be careful on what you hit off the tee, stay in play.  Thanks. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT