U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 1999
Kellee Booth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KELLEE BOOTH: Well, it meant a lot. I just think I'm more emotional about this because
I know it's my last amateur tournament, and I just kind of wanted to win this one. But
Dorothy played great. I just didn't have my A game today. The putts weren't going in. That
was pretty much the difference.

Q. Can you talk about the front nine a little bit and maybe, particularly No. 8 and No.
9.

KELLEE BOOTH: No. 8, I just pulled my 7-iron into the green, and then I hit a really
good chip and left myself a tough putt. I thought it was going to roll down more, and I
left myself about six feet, right-breaker. And I was having problems with those. I don't
know, just didn't quite read it right. Didn't hit it on line and missed that one. On 9, I
pulled my tee shot again. It was a 6-iron. And just didn't hit the chip hard enough, and
left myself another right-breaker. And then I hit it too hard and moved it right through
the break.

Q. A couple times on the front nine after you had putt and missed -- were you having
problems?

KELLEE BOOTH: We couldn't go anywhere.

Q. Were you having problems reading it?

KELLEE BOOTH: I just didn't see the lines right today. You have days like that when --
usually I don't, like, look ahead from the other side very often. And today I found myself
looking at it from the other side a lot more, only because I wasn't seeing it right away
from the side behind the ball. So just trying to get myself another look at it.

Q. Did you feel you could make a run on the back side when it went 3-down after the
turn?

KELLEE BOOTH: I felt I could. I missed the tee shot on 12 and left myself behind the
tree. And I thought I hit a really good shot, and it didn't get up. Of course, the ball
was sitting right on a tuft of grass, so I missed the chip and I went right under it. So I
ended up losing that hole. On 13, I really thought I made the putt. It's hard to believe
on about a 15-footer you've got to play 10 feet of break. You know, it was basically a
90-degree putt. On 14, I hit a really good shot. On 15, I was a little distracted by the
guy that was standing by the bunker, and I almost killed him. Not meaning too, obviously.
But having people in front of me in my line of sight is somewhat frustrating. And then 16,
I thought I chipped it in. There was some mud on the ball and I think it kicked it a
little off line. But other than that, I was only 1-over, so I can't be too disappointed
with it.

Q. Dorothy played great; right? She was sticking everything?

KELLEE BOOTH: She was playing really well. Hitting her irons in there real close,
giving herself lots of opportunities to make putts. And she rolled them in today.

Q. What did your mom say to you when it was all over?

KELLEE BOOTH: Not to worry about it. That I've had a really good summer. Semifinalist
isn't bad.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT