U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 1999
Kellee Booth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KELLEE BOOTH: It feels great. My mom got to the semis and never got any farther than
that. So it's nice to finally catch up with her, and hopefully, go beyond that.

Q. You got down again today.

KELLEE BOOTH: Yeah, I did. I just made a bogey on 2 and got a little unlucky on 7 after
hitting a not-so-pretty shot. And it ended up in a place where there was a lot of high
grass right around; my ball kind of nestled itself under. I didn't hit a very good chip
shot and ended up making bogey. And right after that, I ended up making three birdies is a
row to swing it the other way.

Q. Did you think you made a hole-in-one?

KELLEE BOOTH: I did think I made a hole-in-one on 9. I hit a really good shot. People
didn't clap very much. (I thought:) Is it close? I think it is; or where is the ball.
Actually, I thought when I was walking up to the green, I had maybe four or five feet,
based on the crowd reaction. And I got up there, and I had only about a foot and a half.

Q. Can you talk about the 8, 9, and 10 stretch. Do you think that turned the match
around for you?

KELLEE BOOTH: I think I did. 8, I hit a very good shot in there. She left the door open
by hitting her second shot in the bunker and missed the chip shot. I was about four feet
away, and I rolled in that putt.

Q. How long was that?

KELLEE BOOTH: About four feet.

Q. What was the club and yardage?

KELLEE BOOTH: Club was a 7-iron. I had about 152 or so down the hill. And I didn't want
to be short, so I decided to hit the 7 rather than the 8.

KELLEE BOOTH: I hit a 7-iron.

Q. And what happened on 10?

KELLEE BOOTH: I know I made birdie. I'm just wondering what club I hit. I think I hit a
6-iron in to about five feet.

Q. On No. 8, how close?

KELLEE BOOTH: Four feet.

Q. About a foot on No. 9? 

KELLEE BOOTH: A foot on 9.

Q. Did you make any changes to your swing during those three holes?

KELLEE BOOTH: I just kept plugging along, because I was hitting good shots. I really
wasn't making the putts that I wanted to make. And, you know, you get down if you don't
make the putts.

Q. You've been kind of keen towards this tournament. How do you not get ahead of
yourself going into tomorrow? You have to win tomorrow before going into the finals. What
did you do in your mind?

KELLEE BOOTH: Dorothy is my main focus tomorrow; coming out and playing a solid round
against her. She's been playing really well this week. Just focus on that. And I'm not
even going to worry about the possibility of what could happen on Saturday.

Q. Kellee, has there been anything from your -- from the Amateur events this summer
that you're drawing on? Anything that you've learned over the summer?

KELLEE BOOTH: In a couple matches, I pretty much throughout in the two tournaments in
the Trans and the Western, I figured: Oh, I'm going home about halfway through the match.
(Laughs). There's no way I'm going to win this match. And I just kept plugging along and
stayed patient. And they made mistakes, and I capitalized on those mistakes. So I think
the whole deal is that I need to stay patient.

Q. You haven't had those thoughts this week?

KELLEE BOOTH: No.

Q. Have you and your mom talked at all?

KELLEE BOOTH: Not really. I think she's kind of stayed out of things. She yelled at my
dad a couple times about a few things, but that's normal. (Laughs.) Just because we'll get
in little arguments out there: You told me this and it wasn't right, and I should have
done this. So then she gets mad at him for creating controversy. (Laughing).

Q. How many birdies did you have in your morning match?

KELLEE BOOTH: Four. Five this afternoon.

Q. Do you feel like you're putting better? You made some longer putts today.

KELLEE BOOTH: Yeah, I made some longer putts today. I also hit some shots pretty close
to the hole; so, I had some good opportunities to make birdies today.

Q. How long was the putt on 17 to close it out?

KELLEE BOOTH: About 20 feet.

Q. You weren't pleased with your approach shot?

KELLEE BOOTH: I didn't hit a very good chip shot. Kind of frustrated with that. Didn't
quite hit as solid and carry it as far as I would have liked to. I was kind of debating
between clubs and decided to go with my sand wedge rather than my 52-degree wedge. So I
hit the shot, and maybe I should have hit the 52. I'm just happy I made the putt, and I
don't have to second guess it.

Q. Do you find Match Play more interesting than medal play?

KELLEE BOOTH: Sometimes it's more fun. Sometimes it's not. I'm sure Stephanie wasn't
real thrilled that we were even par and she was one shot ahead of me. I think after -- we
were even in the match, and that was through 8 -- no, through 9 and she had a one-shot
lead on me. I don't think she was real thrilled about that, but it goes with the two-shot
swings. You can have a bad hole and it only costs you a hole rather than two or three
shots.

Q. What do you find to be neat from your point of view?

KELLEE BOOTH: The thing that's neat about Match Play is it brings out the true heart
and soul of a player. You know, the never-give-up attitude. If you do get down, you can
crawl your way back out of it.

Q. Are you going to try get ahead tomorrow?

KELLEE BOOTH: I'm going to try to get ahead tomorrow.

Q. Not to berate this point --

KELLEE BOOTH: I wasn't down in my morning match, was I? But this morning we just seemed
to have every hole.

Q. You were even for a while there. Does this feel like you're getting a little better
every day this week? Because there were a couple double-bogeys early in the week and 9
birdies today. Does it feel like it's building?

KELLEE BOOTH: I'm learning more about the greens and the golf course in general that I
know where to hit it, where on greens, especially that you need to hit the ball to give
yourself opportunities to make birdies or even to save par, if that's the case.

Q. It seems like you're staying below the hole a lot?

KELLEE BOOTH: Some of these greens you can hit it past the hole and not be penalized,
but a lot of them, you really want to stay below the hole.

Q. What's it been like going into tournaments now expected to win? What does that do to
you?

KELLEE BOOTH: I don't feel any pressure, being expected to win. I've just been playing
really well; so I guess people expect me to win. I'm just going to try to keep playing
well, and keep that momentum going.

Q. You seem very loose. You're in here joking around with us.

KELLEE BOOTH: Is that a good thing or a bad thing? (Laughing.)

Q. That's up to you. It seems like you're real loose, though?

KELLEE BOOTH: That's the way I am. I might be pretty intense on the course and try to
stay focused, but when I'm off the course I don't try to take what happened on the course
with me. Just try to forget it and go on.

KELLEE BOOTH: I don't think so. She's kind of stayed away. I'm not exactly sure why,
because a lot of the times she will be there. But I think she just doesn't want to rattle
me before a round. I'm glad she's not been down there. I would have been a lot more
rattled than by my dad. In the warm-up sessions, I'm just trying to warm up, not trying to
hit the best golf shots I can. That's what I try to do on the course. If she would have
been down there, she would have been quite scared about some of my performances.
(Laughing.)

KELLEE BOOTH: The second shot on the 1st hole was just darned luck. I was just trying
to keep it under the tree and thought with the lie, I wasn't going to be able to make real
good solid contact with it, and I just took off straight up. Lucky it went through the
tree, and I thought I hit a really good putt for birdie and just didn't read it right.

KELLEE BOOTH: A little longer than that. About eight feet.

Q. How do you feel right now? Tired?

KELLEE BOOTH: A little. My feet need a rest. So it will be nice to get a little extra
sleep tonight, and I'll probably go home and put them up a lit bit and try to get off of
them. And just, other than that, I'm still going.

Q. Is that because you've played as much as you have in a short span now, or is it
because the type of walk this place is?

KELLEE BOOTH: I think it's because I've played a lot, and also because of the walk it
is. You're going up and down a lot. The ups aren't so bad. The downs are hard on your
feet. I have been playing a lot, but I seem to -- even though I have been tired at times,
I seem to have gotten through that and been able to play well.

Q. Go through this last stretch of a couple of weeks: How many rounds have you played
going along?

KELLEE BOOTH: Let's see, the North South, we had two qualifying rounds and three
straight days of 36 holes, one of those being one match. And then I immediately came here
and played two more practice rounds.

Q. The very next two days?

KELLEE BOOTH: Mm-hmm. And then the tournament. I played one practice round before the
North South, because they only allow us one and I walked the other course. That was 36
holes of walking that first day, too. It's pretty tough.

KELLEE BOOTH: '76. She played in two Amateurs after I was born. Then she decided I was
a handful and that was too much.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT