UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH ALABAMA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2017
Joey Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








South Alabama - 16, Louisiana Tech - 34
Q. Just your thoughts on the outcome tonight.
JOEY JONES: Just so happy with the way we competed early.  We go in at halftime, it was a close ball game, come out third quarter is nip and tuck, back and forth.  Defense gave the ball to us a couple times inside the 50 and we just didn't cash in on those opportunities we had to at that time.
In the fourth quarter they made some long drives and just kind of iced the game.  But that's a very good football team we just played, probably going to win a Conference USA and there's no moral deals in here, no moral victories at all.
But our kids, they're playing well.  And going back to the offense, I think that once Coach Owens and our quarterbacks get together and they understand exactly what he wants, because there was some things that he went out there tonight that didn't really gell all together because we only had four days with him, so I think they can get those fixed.  But I like what we did offensively.  I thought we did some good things especially in the first half.  So really like where we're going.  Got seven conference games in a row coming.  Got Troy right here coming up and so we're excited about the opportunity of what we can do in our conference.
Q. Talk about conference play, if you would.  What do you think y'all have to do between now and the start, you got a little bit of a cushion extra day because it's a TV game with Troy.
JOEY JONES: Yeah, we're going to take off tomorrow and get back to work Monday.  We'll have our week all planned out through the following weekend.  And obviously we know it's a big game and we're excited about that.  We're excited about our opportunity of playing those guys.  They're very well coached, they're a great team.  They're -- beating LSU was a big win for them and so we're excited about it.  We're excited about getting back in conference play and seeing what we can do.
Q. What do you think is the key to flipping it in the league?  To compete against the league, to make that one extra step?
JOEY JONES: Well, I think some of it is just playing in our league.  We played Ole Miss, we played Oklahoma State, and we played Louisiana Tech, some -- three pretty good football teams.  Really good football teams.  So we can't look at that record.  We were asked to play that schedule and, listen, we played it.  But we have our conference games coming now and this is when it counts and this is when we make our money.
Q. Cole's first action out there tonight.  What did you see out of him tonight?
JOEY JONES: I thought Cole played well.  Again, I heard Richard over the phone sometimes saying, why is he going here?  Why is he going there?  A lot of that has to do with the fact that they have only been together for four days.  So they need to fix some of those things and they will.  But I thought he played well, he's got a good arm, he made some really good throws.  I didn't look at the stats yet, but I thought he had the arm.  And he's a guy that can really win in this football conference that we're getting ready to play in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT