SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 17, 2021
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. First of all comment on 3-under 67 on your round and your week as a whole at the Sony.
JIM FURYK:   , I played solid.  Didn't get a lot out of a number of my rounds.  One day I really scrapped it out Friday which was probably my worst ball-striking day.  A little disappointed with maybe the score on Thursday and the score on Sunday where it could have been a lot better situation.  You know, I always like coming to Waialae.  It's been a long time since I've been here for scheduling reasons and good to come back to the golf course.
Q. And now the mindset going from the Sony over to Hualalai?
JIM FURYK:   Right now just don't know what to expect.  Everyone tells me how beautiful Hualalai is, how great the hotel, the tournament itself.  I don't know anything about the golf course.  I have an open mind going in and I have the next couple of days on Monday and Tuesday to go see the golf course and try to get know it a little bit and get ready.
Q. Mike was talking about not having played with guys like Couples and Bernhard and some of those guys in quite a while.  Anybody in particular you're looking forward to hitting it around with out there that you haven't seen quite as much out on TOUR?
JIM FURYK:   I have a bunch of old friends that have been out on the Champions Tour for quite a while like Sluman and Billy Andrade.  There's just a bunch of guys I get along with.  It's kind of like a little bit of a home coming and seeing them in the locker room the first couple of events last summer, it was just fun, kind of seeing folks I haven't seen in a while.
Everybody talks about the camaraderie on the Champions Tour, and I think that's there.  Everyone realizes they get kind of a second lease on life and a new tour to play, and so I think they enjoy that part of it, but it's also very competitive, and just knowing everyone's up there having a glass of wine in the family dining, but seems to me the range is always full, the chipping green is always full, the guys are practicing putts.  Someone is always shooting 15-under.  I enjoy it.  I enjoy the camaraderie but the competition has been great, as well and I've had a lot of fun with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT