WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us a little bit about victory, what was it like to get that W here today?
JIM FURYK: Yeah, you know, I got off to a -- I don't know if I got off to a rocky start, Jason got off to a good start.  I think he was 4-under through 6.  I kind of weathered that storm for a while and gave one back at 8 when I missed about a three or four-footer for par.  And I'm standing on the 9th tee 3-down and kind of trying to figure out what happened, to be honest with you.
I guess my goal from there on out was just to play solid golf, try to make him earn every one hole.  And some of those pins on the back nine were in some pretty dicey spots.  It was tough to putt to.  If you didn't hit real good iron shots, it was tough to get your first putt close.  And we both traded some three-putts.  My short game wasn't maybe as good as it should have been today in spots.  And that got me off to a little bit of a rocky start.  And kind of gave a couple -- missed a couple short putts on the back nine.  But overall I kind of ground it out and was able to get away with a win.
He's a great player and feel fortunate to be 3-down early to come back and win the match.
Q. You probably shouldn't look into the seedings when it comes to this.  When you have a match like that do you go into it with the underdog mentality?
JIM FURYK: Well, yeah, absolutely, I'm the underdog, without a doubt.  I guess my attitude has been really good.  And even when I was 3-down, you can get in match play and get 3-down and feel like basically oh, shit I can't make a mistake.  And that feel is very binding.  It's tough to hit good golf shots at that point.  I kind of just tell myself, I never thought -- again, same thing at THE PLAYERS I didn't think I was going to be playing in this event.  I'm standing on the 15th tee all square, kind of pinching myself.  Here I am playing Jason Day at the World Golf match play, and I wasn't even supposed to be here.
So tried to enjoy -- I know I was nervous out there, of course, but I really tried to enjoy the fact that I put myself back in this position.  And little things like that helped me stayed aggressive at 3-down and not really worry about what the score was, just try for hit some good golf shots.
Q. What did you think when you saw the grouping?
JIM FURYK: Yeah, every grouping here is solid, but obviously a lot of experience.  A lot of major championships won by those three guys.  And, yeah, I mean every group -- there's 16 good, solid groups.  But I know all three of those guys pretty well and obviously kind of grew up playing against Phil.  I've known all them for a long time.  It's a good group.  One of us is going to have to really play well to get out of it.
Q. (Inaudible).
JIM FURYK: Not with the putter.  Again, from mid range I putted pretty damn well from mid range today.  Short range I need to tighten some things up.  I missed some short putts today and didn't lag some long ones very well.  But in that ten to 20-foot range I got some putts in the hole.  Was able to make a couple and ends up being the difference in a match, really.
Q. Talk about your energy level.
JIM FURYK: I think for anyone energy level is going to come into this later on, but, no, I can play four weeks in a row.  And I'm not quite as strong as Henrik Stenson and that fit, but I can make it through the next couple of days, no problem.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT