DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 2-under round for you today.  Satisfied with the way you worked on the course?JIM FURYK: It was a solid day.  I really left some shots out there on the greens.  I probably had three or four putts on the back nine from ten feet in that I wasn't able to convert on, wasn't able to make.  The only birdie on the back nine was a two-putt on 18.  I thought I played solid back there but didn't get a lot out of it.  But got a lot of good stuff to carry from the day, as well.Q. I think Curt and Byron were talking about, although you don't have a win, just how consistent you have been this entire PGA season.  If you had to rate your season so far with just a few rounds now left in the year, how would you describe it?JIM FURYK: It wasn't the fact of whether or not I've won this year, it was a very good year.  It was consistent.  I was able to get through a lot of top-10s.  I was in the hunt.  Played very well in the hunt.  Almost came from behind to win it at both the Wells Fargo and the PLAYERS.  I played pretty well from up front at the Canadian Open. So I wasn't able to win, but I felt like I played solid when I was in the hunt and also had a ton of very good, consistent finishes and actually got through the year without missing a cut, which is the first time in my career.Q. You've got one round here tomorrow, two more events in the FedExCup playoffs, and then it's the Ryder Cup and you're on that team once again.  How much of a leadership role do you feel like you're going to take into that team room, considering you have several rookies, Jordan Spieth, Patrick Reed, Jimmy Walker, just to name a few?JIM FURYK: I think anytime you have experience and you've been there you can provide some leadership.  Some people do that quietly, some people are vocal.Q. What are you?JIM FURYK: I don't know.  We'll see.  Whatever I feel might be needed and whatever the Captain calls upon.  So if he's a real vocal Captain I think it's more probably lead by your actions.  If he's quiet, maybe it's pumping the guys up or talking. I think a lot of it goes with your partner, too.  You go out there and if he's the guy who wants to chat, then you're in his ear all day.  If he's a guy that wants to be quiet and concentrate, then you're quiet with him.  I can kind of go either way.  But I'll look forward to it. We do have some veterans out there and guys that have played in quite a few Ryder Cups.  And I'm looking forward to it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT