THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JIM FURYK:   Yeah, not bad here.   Just happy with the day.   Spent a long time on the range yesterday.   Wasn't hitting the ball particularly as well as I would have liked to in the Pro‑Am coming in here.   I had a good ball‑striking month really, took a week off and just didn't feel like I was hitting it as solid as I would like.   Today I did a pretty good job of getting the ball in play when I didn't, when I hit a bad shot here and there I was able to get the ball up‑and‑down.
But really what was so good today was I did really well with the sand wedge, my sand wedge and my gap wedge.   I hit the ball a foot at 1.   I hit it about three feet on 5.   I was able to get it up‑and‑down from about 105 on 6 for par. 
13 I knocked it in with four or five feet with a birdie with sand edge when I had opportunities today I was able to take advantage of them and make a bunch of birdies in those cases.   The rest of the time the golf course, holes 6 through 12 in my opinion are very, very difficult. 
You can make a bunch of bogeys in there and I was able to make a good save at 6, and I think I made maybe one birdie, one bogey throughout that stretch.   Played those either even or 1‑over par and did a lot of damage on front and back end.

Q.   After what happened four years ago, were you chomping at the bit to get back here? 
JIM FURYK:   I guess I just kind of forgot about it but I've been reminded about it a dozen times.   Had some fans poking fun and saying, glad you remembered to wake up.   I've heard it a little bit from‑‑ a couple from the media, a couple of the players. 
But the best comeback ever, it all worked out.   It as all basically like a missing a cut and got to go home for a few days.   I was disappointed at the time but it all worked out and ended up winning the FedEx that year.   It's nice.   I think what I was really disappointed about, I fell from I think 3 to 7 that week and I was bummed about that, but I like this golf course.   I enjoy playing it and competing here.   We play four good golf courses here at The Barclays and I still think this is the best one and I just really enjoy being here.

Q.   Is the rough too much? 
JIM FURYK:   It's thick.   It's thick‑‑ not if you don't get in it.   It's pretty thick.   I think my answer to whether it is or it isn't, there's still some low scores out there.   There's a 6‑under on the board, a bunch of fives, a bunch of fours.   You start cutting that rough down, and you go one way or the other.   If you cut the rough down, I think you make the golf course firm and fast and make the greens a little firmer. 
It's not nearly as firm as what I remember in 2008.   In 2008, ball was going forever.   I mean, we were hitting a lot shorter clubs into greens but it was a lot harder to get the ball in the fairway because it was chasing out. 

Q.   Is it harder? 
JIM FURYK:   Is the course here harder than the PGA course?   It's just different.   It's not‑‑ Valhalla puts a lot of stress on me just with its length. 
I don't know if it's hard or not.   It's a better golf course in my opinion, I'll be dead honest, but I don't know if it's harder.   It may not be as harder to be honest with you by design, but I think it's a better course. 

Q.   Best birdie today? 
JIM FURYK:   Best birdie? 

Q.   If we had to write about one shot, what would you like it to be? 
JIM FURYK:   The best birdie I made today was on 3 for sure.   Drove it in the right rough.   Had to hack an 8‑iron out.   Had a blind third shot with a 6‑iron in my hand to a par 5 to a front right pin coming in from the right edge of the fairway.   Hit a 6‑iron in there about five feet over that bunker and it was the best shot of the day for sure and I was able to knock the 5‑footer in. 

Q.   How satisfied are you with the start? 
JIM FURYK:   Very, actually.   Played pretty well today but had some loose shots out there and was able to manage getting the ball up‑and‑down and fight through some bad holes.   But had a lot of good ones out there and attacked with some wedges and putted very well today.

Q.   You're a guy that spent some time growing up in the northeast.   How do you attack golf courses like this, one that looks like it would play into your wheelhouse? 
JIM FURYK:   It's a tough golf course.   I think you get in those holes, 6 through 12, very difficult holes.   You can make a bunch of bogeys in there if you're not careful.   I think today you could attack 1 through 5 and then 13 through 18, you had some shorter holes and short irons in your hand but those middle holes are really difficult.   I was able to get through those, probably around even par, maybe 1‑over but then did a lot of damage on the front and back end.

Q.   Past FedExCup champion, how exciting is it this time of year for you with more big events and The Ryder Cup? 
JIM FURYK:   It's fun.   I've been around long enough now, 21 years on TOUR, I remember when the season almost felt like it ended after the PGA Championship.   It got flat and we would still have The Ryder Cup and Presidents Cup, but everyone was kind of biding their time until THE TOUR Championship.   I think the fans were, as well.   Now it's an exciting finish and we have all the best players together for four more weeks and everyone is going to be jockeying for position trying to win that FedExCup at the end.   But also we have four wonderful golf tournaments to play in.   It's a great time of the year. 
Ten years ago, eight years ago, I was skeptical when they started talking about the format but it's been wonderful for everyone involved, for the fans, for the sponsors and for the players.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT