PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You must be reasonably happy with a 66?  
JIM FURYK:   As many birdies as they're making, it's not going to be near enough.   Just keep hearing roars out there.   
It was a good round today.   I played three really solid rounds yesterday.   I really didn't play that poorly.   I just missed a couple of short ones with the putter, had a hard time getting it going with the putter.   
Finished bad with bogeys at 15 and 16 and then didn't birdie 18.   Kind of put myself behind the eight ball.   1‑over round ended up biting me, but played 13‑under for three rounds.   
On this golf course, stereotypically this isn't a golf course you would pick for a short ball hitter.   It's a bomber's paradise.   The layout sets up for the guys that can really move it.   The setup early in the week, set up for the guys that can really move it.   Then the rain just kind of added a nice exclamation point on it.   
You look at the guys up there high in the lead, most of them are really long hitters.   I really felt I got a lot out of my game this week.   I thought I was real patient.   For as long as a golf course played, I feel like I played a pretty good darn tournament.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JIM FURYK:   No.   I just wanted to go out and play and see what I could do.   I was a little uneasy with the putter yesterday.   I didn't hit a lot of good quality putts.   I hit some very poor putts yesterday.   I hit some decent ones that didn't go in.   
Today I kind of got a lot of confidence on the front nine.   I didn't make anything.   I lipped out a birdie putt at both 7 and 8, but I hit a lot of good quality putts today.   Missed a 4‑footer for birdie on 13.  
Quite honestly, if I had it all over again, I'd hit the same putt.   It kind of horseshoed and came back at me.   More than anything, I was focused on my game.   I wanted to get out there and get easy with the putter early and get some confidence going.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT