RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Wonderful round.   What was the key to your success today?
JIM FURYK:   You know, it was very similar to yesterday.   I think today's round and yesterday's weren't much different.   I hit the ball very well.   A lot of fairways, a lot of greens, a lot of opportunities.   Today I think I capitalized on a few more of those, but the golf course is still playing pretty soft, the greens are very receptive.   There was a couple holes on the back side that were going to play very difficult into the wind and they moved the tees up on 11 and 18.   I'm not sure it really helped much on 18 to be honest with you.   I just played a hybrid off the tee where I would have hit my driver anyway. 
The golf course is soft and receptive, and they have it set up right now where we can attack and fire at the pins, so scores are going to be good.   It would be a totally different scenario if these greens were firm. 

Q.   Everybody in your group played really well today.   Is it easier to play well when everybody has got the same vibe?
JIM FURYK:   Well, I think it helps a little bit, but I think the company‑‑ I mean, Graham and Matt are very laid‑back people.   They're fun to play golf with.   We chatted a lot out there.   We talked a lot.   Outside of the golf I had a good time with the both of them. 
And then to have everyone play well, you're seeing birdie putts going in, our group made 22 birdies today, so it's a lot of fun, and I think you can feed off that a little bit.   Those guys are making birdies, you feel like putts are going in, it's a good vibe. 

Q.   Halfway home to a third victory here.   That would put you in company with people like Lee Trevino, Sam Snead.   I know it's a long way off, but what would that mean to you?
JIM FURYK:   Well, it's even farther away than I'd really even want to think about.   Obviously winning any event is special.   I've had a lot of success here, so I've got some good feelings and really a lot of support here.   But we're only at the halfway point.   Tomorrow really is still jockeying for position. 
I really feel like I'm hitting the ball well.   I'm rolling some good putts.   Really it's a matter of patience.   When I'm striking the ball well, I'm usually fighting with myself getting too aggressive and aiming at too many pins and not playing the intelligent shot and the smart shot, so I've done a good job of being really patient the last two days, and because of that I've given myself a lot of opportunities. 

Q.   You don't get to be the last member of the 59 club on the PGA TOUR without knowing how to capitalize on opportunities.   You did that today.   How do you grade the way that you were able to capitalize on opportunities around this golf course? 
JIM FURYK:   I think pretty well.   You know, yesterday I felt like I hit the ball just as well.   I probably left a couple putts out there.   Some of them I hit pretty good putts that didn't go in.   Today I did much of the same.   I played very patient, put the ball in play, and my iron game was sharp, gave myself a lot of opportunities and knocked in a couple putts today.

Q.   On 11, your second hole, you knocked that 50‑footer.   What did that do to jump start your day?
JIM FURYK:   That may have been the worst iron shot of the day to be honest with you.   It was a 4‑iron going in there, but I got it breaking about three different ways and up over a big ridge, and it was moving a touch fast.   So seeing that go in was definitely a lot of fun.   It's a putt you're just trying to get up there close, get out of there with 4 and move on, so it was a bonus to see it go in.

Q.   You made three straight birdies after that.   For you, you've won this championship twice.   It's been since 2010 since you've won here, what is the importance of being in a place where you feel comfortable and having a chance to win on the weekend?
JIM FURYK:   Well, it's nice.   I realize I won the Canadian Open twice but it wasn't here at Royal Montreal.   I played some events here back in '97 and played the Presidents Cup here since the redo, so I've been very comfortable on it the last couple of days, and it's been soft.   You can be aggressive and attack pins.   Really we're only at the halfway point, so I'm not really thinking about winning golf tournaments.   I'm just trying to stay patient.   Tomorrow I hope to get out there and fire another good round and see where it falls. 
At the halfway point right now I'm very happy with where I stand, and it gives me an opportunity to fire two more good rounds and have a shot. 

Q.   Yesterday we talked about the ball‑striking.   You just said, boy, that was as good as it's been.   You don't know if you could get better, but you hit more fairways today and 17 of 18 greens.   Was it better today?
JIM FURYK:   I don't know about that.   I feel like I hit the ball very well both days.   I gave myself just probably about the same amount of opportunities.   I did miss a couple putts out there, but you can't make them all, and I made a bunch more putts today, and that was the difference between 67 yesterday and 63 today.   I got the putter working early, knocked in a bunch of putts and stayed real patient, gave myself a lot of opportunities on the second side. 
Just happy to kind of capitalize on even more today and put myself in a good position.

Q.   Take us through the strike starting at 11 when you made four birdies in a row, and the one on 11 according to ShotLink was some 50 feet. 
JIM FURYK:   It really was.   It was probably my worst iron shot of the day.   I didn't hit a very particularly long drive there today.   I had a 4‑iron in my hand to that pin this morning, and I kind of hit it thin and I pulled it left, and it rolled towards the back left of the green and up over that big spine, breaking about three different ways, and it was moving a little quick.   It was probably going to go four or five feet by and kind of crashed in the center of the hole.   So it was an extra bonus to get a 3 there. 
I hit driver, 3‑wood in the greenside bunker on 11, made a great up‑and‑down from the short side there to make about 10 or 12‑footer for birdie. 
13 I'm hitting hybrid into a par‑3 to about 20 feet behind the pin and made a nice kind of pretty big curler from left to right, and 14 I hit a hybrid off the tee and I think about a 7‑iron for my second shot in to about eight or ten feet behind the hole. 
Got on a really good roll there on the back nine.   Actually hit it pretty close on 16 and 17.   I felt real good about my game. 

Q.   Talk about the entire group playing that well together. 
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, I mean, I don't know if I've ever played in a group where we shot 63, 63, 65.   I was giving Kuch a bunch of crap about being the schlub in the group shooting a 65.   Lord knows I've taken abuse from him over the years, so nice to get one back. 
22 birdies out there, and it was nice‑‑ like Graham said, we kind of fed off each other.   It was nice to see the other guys make birdies, as long as you are, and I mean that in‑‑ sometimes you've got two partners who are making a bunch of birdies and you're not seeing putts go in, it kind of makes you more frustrated.   But I think all of us got to see a bunch of birdie putts go in, and the company was great.   I really enjoyed playing with Graham and Matt and kind of the dialogue of a couple of days, talking to those gentlemen.   I had a fun time outside of the golf, and I played well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT