RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   At the Open you played so well, and the course is so different here. 
JIM FURYK:   It really is, but I've been doing it for quite a few years now.

Q.   That's true. 
JIM FURYK:   Obviously RBC makes it a lot easier with that charter to get us back over here to the Canadian Open, and it is a different style.   This golf course is one that you need to put the ball in the air.   You need to bring the ball in from a high spot, land it softly on the greens, the greens being soft as you mentioned from the rain yesterday has definitely made that easier on us.   But it's a totally different style of golf than we saw at the Open last week with links.   It can be tough to adjust. 

Q.   Can you put your round into words for us today?
JIM FURYK:   Well, I felt like I played a real solid round of golf.   I hit the ball very well today.   I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.   I had the ball in really good positions on the greens.   I wasn't always able to convert on the putts.   I hit some good ones today that I misread, and I felt like I had some putts out there where my line was right but the speed was a touch off or vice versa.   I just didn't get the best feel on the greens, but I was still able to convert and make four birdies today and play a good, solid round.

Q.   Is this golf course all about keeping it in the fairways and on the greens?
JIM FURYK:   Well, it's set up, I think, to tempt us to play aggressive.   The fairways are somewhat wide in spots.   The rough isn't very high.   And with the greens being so undulating and severe, guys are trying, I think, to really get the ball as close to the green as they can.   You don't want to be attacking a lot of these greens and pins with 5‑irons in your hand.   If you can get it up there closer, I think most guys are going to try to do so.

Q.   You were playing with Graeme, and I know he gets a lot of love from the crowd, but are you feeling it, too, as a two‑time champion of this event?
JIM FURYK:   Well, I think everyone was polite.   Matt and I and Graeme, we're all on team RBC.   We all felt some support out there, but obviously Graeme being Canada's best player right now and everyone is looking to see a Canadian win this tournament.   I could see him out there working hard.   He got off to a tough start but really ground it out and ended up playing a pretty good round of golf all said and done when it was over. 

Q.   3‑under par opening round, and I saw every shot.   I thought you should have been 10‑under.   You were all over the flags today, just couldn't get those putts to drop. 
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, it was a good day of ball‑striking.   I really felt like I hit the ball well.   A lot of fairways, a lot of greens.   Of course they were very soft out there, so it made it a little easier for us to be aggressive and get the ball in good positions on the greens.   Yeah, I had a hard time converting.   I felt like I hit some really good putts with good speed but misread them, and then also read a few right, felt like I hit a good putt and left a couple short right in the middle of the hole.   It was frustrating a little bit with the putter, but I also take a lot out of it.   3‑under par on this golf course is a good start, and it's something I can try to build on the rest of the week.

Q.   What do you work on with the putting stroke?   Do you just keep at it?   Is it more pace?   Is it more reading the breaks?   What do you work on for tomorrow?
JIM FURYK:   Well, there's nothing you can do about working on misreading some putts.   You just go out there, and my pace was bad in a few spots, usually to the slow side.   I usually hit the ball hard enough.   I felt like some of the uphill putts today were a little slower than I expected, but I'm just going to‑‑ I've been putting well this year.   I've been putting well the last couple of months, two, three months, and I'm going to go out there and line them up and try to knock more in tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT