THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JIM FURYK: It should put some distance in between me and the 9th and 10th spot.  So there's a good chance of that.Q. (Inaudible.)JIM FURYK: 6th.  Rickie was 7th.  So he has a good opportunity to maybe hop over me, but I'm sure I may hop over someone, as well.Q. 65, what does it mean to come out here on the final day and shoot a low number?JIM FURYK: Yeah, I had a good string of that this year, it feels real good.  I think it's my third 55 or 65th this year.  So it's a nice way to finish off a week.  Interesting, though, a little bit of an asterisk today, in that there's a lot of good scores on the board.  Seems like the whole field was shooting a 5-under.  7 was a good number, and happy to get it to there. But I think a lot of it, it was breezier today than it was yesterday.  But I think a lot of it had to do with where the pin placements were.  And I think in this westerly or I guess it was maybe a west, northwest wind today, I feel like the golf course is a little more accessible.  The fives play a lot shorter.  I hit 3-wood, 4-iron to the last hole.  The fives were a lot more accessible and I felt where the pins were today, there was about four or five holes where you couldn't get to the pin, but a lot of them the wind was pushing the ball toward the pins.  I felt like as soft as the greens were, you could get to a lot of them today and scoring was out there.Q. (Inaudible.)JIM FURYK: He played great.  He was tested a few times.  Rickie made a run on him yesterday and he answered the call late on the back nine.  And Sergio has made a pretty good run at him today.  I guess this is for birdie here.  But he stayed patient, it seems like.  He's made a ton of pars, not very many mistakes.  And that's what it takes to win major championships.  This putt right here is probably the tournament.Q. Talk a little bit about where you were at this point last year.  You were struggling with the game and maybe a little frustrated with it.JIM FURYK: I was.  I was.  I left this tournament and went on a nice run.  I think top 10 at Canada.  Played well at Akron.  Almost won the PGA and kind of finished out the year well.  Last summer between -- I'll say right before the U.S. Open and through the British wasn't playing that well.  My patience level was down.  I was tired.  I was putting poorly.  Really mentally I wasn't doing well.  And kind of turned it around in Canada.  I had a good finish and kind of slowly built on it and got some confidence towards the end of the year. It happens.  And a lot of it I think was -- I'm not sure -- I was putting poorly, but past that a lot of it was mental more than physical.  I wasn't hitting the ball bad.  I just wasn't really in the right place mentally.Q. (Inaudible.)JIM FURYK: I think that was some of it.  I think I have a bad habit of beating myself up.  And I think there's a lot of positives to that, but there's also some negatives, and I let it be a negative last year at times.  I wasn't having a lot of fun out there playing golf.  And if it takes really good results to have fun, then you're probably not going to have good results, if that makes sense. A lot of it was advice from my father, my wife.  I've been talking to Dr. Rotella for a little over a year now, and he's helped quite a bit.  And he's also helped me to prioritize things and feel good about having a good level balance with everything in life.  And that's the most important.Q. (Inaudible.)JIM FURYK: I don't know if 12 events would be difficult.  If that was the right thing for me, if I felt like it was the right thing for me to do and my family, then I'd make it work, if that made sense.  I'm not to that point yet.  I want to play more golf than that.  And if I get to the point where I don't and I want to shut it down at 12 events or shut it down to however many, I'll do that.  But right now I'm happy with where I am.  I'm on pace for about 23 this year, 22, 23.  Actually I need to look.  But the goal is 22.  And I'm probably going to end up with one more.Q. (Inaudible.)JIM FURYK: What are you trying to say?Q. I'm not saying you're not a long driver, but does this venue balance that out?JIM FURYK: Yeah, yeah, next year will be a challenge.  I think that next year, St. Andrews is power oriented, power dominant.  I've struggled there, I'll be honest.  The last two times I missed the cut.  I made the cut my first year there, but it's a golf course I have to have a good attitude going in there. There's a lot of great venues on this rotation.  This and Birkdale are my two favorites, but I've finished top five every time I've played there in four events.  I like Carnoustie.  Turnberry is wonderful.  Troon is not power dominated.  I don't think Lytham is power dominated.  They're not my favorites like the others.  There's a lot of places where it's more about getting the ball in play and working some shots.  And links golf really isn't always as power dominating.  St. Andrews you can have times where it's a huge advantage to be able to bomb it.Q. (Inaudible.)JIM FURYK: Probably all.  Putting so much damn pressure on him.  I'm kidding you.  I would say it's hard to understand, there's so many good players out there that get that tag or struggle.  And I would be willing to bet if he went on and won one, that you could rattle off two or three more pretty quickly, kind of like Mickelson did.  And he's still in the prime of his career.  I don't know what would have held him back, one way or another.  I'd also be willing to bet if he did win one, it would be a huge relief.  And I could see him playing very well for the next five years after that.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT