THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  JIM FURYK: I didn't make any putts down the stretch.  I had an 8-footer for par on 14; I didn't make it.  8-footer for birdie on 16; hit a bad putt.  17, about a 10-footer for par; didn't go.  Great putt from about six, seven feet at 18 for birdie; didn't go.  I didn't just finish it off. I played real solid, had it 3-under.  Still had two par 5s left.  I could have put myself in there, thinking about 8, 9, 10-under and I finished 6.  Just disappointed with the last three, especially.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JIM FURYK: It really was a pretty benign day.  The toughest was right off the bat, warming up.  But the golf course was there for the taking, really.  It's soft.  You can control the ball better.  You can keep it out of the bunkers a little easier off the tee.  You could stop the ball on the green.  You're seeing guys put the ball in the air.  There's not much breeze out there. So, you know, I shot 1-under yesterday, and I thought it was a better round than I played today at 1-under.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JIM FURYK: Well, he's 3-under today, what I'm guessing is he's probably been real patient out there.  And didn't get off to the greatest of starts.  I think he was 1-over early, and got it back to even.  Was even par through eight or nine holes.  And then looks like from there he's played pretty well, and done some damage on the 5s.  Looked like he might have birdied 10.  I heard the roar when I was on 18, I assume he eagled 16. Sounds like he's been patient, instead of forcing the issue when things weren't going well early.  That's what you got to do.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JIM FURYK: All the fives are really gettable today, other than you have to be pretty long to reach 16, the one he eagled.  But the other ones, I'm hitting 3-iron into 18.  I hit a 3-iron into 5.  And 10 I hit -- I think I hit 3-wood.  I was in between 2-iron and 3-wood.  So they were all pretty gettable for the field today. And they've kind of been that way all week.  16 is the only one that the last couple of days has been tough to get to.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JIM FURYK: I feel all right.  Like I said, I just got off the course.  So first round I played the last three even.  Second round I played the last three even.  And today I played them 1-over.  I feel like I've given up four or five shots to the field. Right now it's disappointing.  But later on I'll look at it, and see where I am on the leaderboard, and realize tomorrow a good round is a good opportunity to have a high finish.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JIM FURYK: He got it back.  You know, that's crazy to make that assumption.  Obviously the worse the weather is, the more that can happen, both positive and negative.  And the more shots you can make up.  But as far as he's at 15 now -- Sergio and Rickie dropped back.  So benign weather I think it would be -- gives the guy a chance to go out there and shoot a 63 or 64.  Tough weather, it kind of puts it in Rory's hands.  If he goes out and plays a solid round, tough to catch him. But things can go a little sideways in links golf in the wind.  We'll see what happens.  He's got a lot of experience.  He's won a couple of majors already and a bunch of tournaments.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JIM FURYK: I wouldn't say so.  You've got about a handful of guys right now that I think that are top in the world of golf and are playing solid.  I wouldn't be surprised if any one of them took a five-shot lead into Sunday.  But what you have with him is he's just so explosive.  He's won tournaments by -- he's won the U.S. Open by 8 shots.  He obviously doesn't have any issue as the front runner, and has no issue trying to extend that lead, much like Tiger used to.  Unless he does something incredible, you might want to count it back to five. But he's explosive.  He's going to make a bunch of birdies.  I guess when I look back at my round, three birdies today wasn't really the best of showings.  And I played the fives even with four putts inside of eight feet.  I didn't make one of them.  Hit some good ones.  But today the fives jumped up and bit me.  And I played 1-under for the rest of the golf course, but if you play those par 5s two or three under, and you put together a pretty solid day.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JIM FURYK: I wore the pants all day, just because I didn't trust the fact that it wasn't going to rain again.  But I was hot by that time.  I only wore the coat for probably three or four holes total.  But I'm quick to get mine off.  I hate raincoats.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JIM FURYK: I don't know.  I mean, I played a practice round with him, too, on Monday, before we knew we were paired together.  No, I guess I admire how he was always a good bad-weather player, if that makes sense.  He shot a round at the Memorial one year, where he shot 69.  And, I mean, people told me about the conditions, guys shot 88 that day and he just was always good at muddling around and not bitching about bad conditions and using it as an advantage, really.  And still it's pretty impressive to see a guy at 64 go around here and make the cut.  I thought it was -- it was fun. I mean, quietly I was pulling for him down the stretch.  He had some long putts coming down the stretch.  He had a two-putt.  And he hit some -- he played like a champ the last four holes.  Played solid, put it on the green, two-putted and got out of there.  It was fun to watch.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT