THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Give us some thoughts about the conditions this afternoon.   
JIM FURYK:   I was a little surprised at the scoring.   I looked up at the board, I saw all those low scores, I thought this afternoon with the breeze, it was tricky in spots, but I guess the greens definitely held some moisture, you could stop the ball out there.   
I think really the scoring was due to the greens not being overly firm or overly fast, and that's probably just trying to keep them healthy.   
   
 Q.   Was there the breeze inconsistent, was that the problem?  
JIM FURYK:   It seemed it in spots.   I guess it mostly came from‑‑ geez, I can't remember.   It generally came from the same direction the whole day.   It might have switched a little here and there, but nothing drastic.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JIM FURYK:   A little here and there, yeah.   I felt like there were some holes where you could hardly feel it and others where it was relatively gusty.   So I guess there's some that were protected by the trees, it was difficult to get a handle on that.   I found it hard to really, the length of the grass in rough right now, I felt it was really hard to control the ball out of that.   That I didn't control my distances real well when I hit the ball in the rough today.   
   
 Q.   Five birdies?  
JIM FURYK:   Yeah.   Five birdies, three bogeys.   Started on 6, I think I hit a nice little wedge in there about six feet.   Made it for birdie.   
Actually, no, I chipped in on 1.   I hit it just in the left short cut on 1 and caught a little bit of a flier and it didn't roll all the way down the hill behind it, it was about halfway.   And I actually drew a pretty good lie, instead of being into the grain I was kind of down grain, so I drew a good lie and was able to hit a good pitch and knock it in.   
I birdied some hard holes on the back nine, 14 and 15.   
14 was a good driver and a 5‑iron to about 10 feet right.   
15 was a driver and an 8‑iron to about, I was probably about 18 feet short of the pin.   
Then I hit a wedge about 15 feet behind the pin on 17.   
   
 Q.   The greens seemed to be nonissue.   Did you have any issues with the troubled greens today with the roll?  
JIM FURYK:   I think a couple of the troubled greens, the 11, 12‑‑ 4, 11, 12, I felt like 12 was slow.   But past that, they might just be a touch slower on those.   I had a downhill putt on 4, so it really didn't come into play.   
I had a pretty short putt on 11.   
But I had a little bit of a longer putt on 12 and I was surprised how short I left it, hitting it pretty solid.   
I think the TOUR really played the greens, a lot of them don't look that much different than they have in the past, other than they have kept them a little longer and a little more moist.   So they're slower and softer.   But most of them are pretty darn healthy and it's not really a big factor out there.   
   
 Q.   No. 6?  
JIM FURYK:   I hit a wedge in there about six feet, I said, behind the pin.   I hit a hybrid off the tee.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT