VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     The golf course difficult to make birdies on so just go ahead and chip-in for eagle and take the hard stuff out of play.
JIM FURYK:   Yeah.   I've done a good job of scoring and get the ball in the hole.   I missed my share of fairways, I missed my share of greens but I've done a good job of getting the ball up and down.
I pitched the ball real well this week and that was kind of -- that was the whole week of attack, get as close to the green as I could and create some sort of angle short left of the green and pitch shot that close and falling in.   Good way to start the back-9.   Kind of got me going on that side and I think it relaxed me a little about.

Q.   Obviously this is a grind just the way the conditions have been, the way this golf course lends itself.   You're kind of a grinder.   It's a physical and mental battle out there but do you get to the golf course and have a little bit of a mental edge knowing you grind your way around the course you have familiarity and success at?
JIM FURYK:   I enjoy coming to this golf course.   When I see it 49 degrees or something this morning and the winds kicked up this afternoon, I know it's going to be a tough day. 
I don't really look forward to that but it's just a golf course where, you know, anything under par is never going to hurt you here and you're always going to keep yourself in the hunt somewhere within shouting distance.

Q.   The conditions probably lend itself to the numbers being a little bit better.   How did you find the golf course today compared to yesterday?
JIM FURYK:   What did you say about --
Q.     The numbers seem to bear out, more greens, more fairways today.
JIM FURYK:   Yeah.   Wow.   I thought I hit it better yesterday, I'll be honest with you.   I probably felt a little more comfortable especially on my second side yesterday with my golf swing and I had a lot more confidence I think where the ball was going yesterday but that's interesting to hear I hit more fairways and greens today. 
It was a couple things I want to work on and I hit it well enough but obviously I need to go work on it a little bit this afternoon and see if I can find a little magic and I think I'm close.   There's a couple things I want to work on in both my long game and putting this afternoon.

Q.   Play well tomorrow.
JIM FURYK:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT