WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How would you grade today?
JIM FURYK:   I played well.   I'm honestly disappointed with the finish.   I hit some good shots down the stretch.   I hit it as good as I could on 18.   I thought I flagged the 8‑iron, I'm surprised it came up short.
I've been getting the ball up and down really well, and hit terrific chips on 17 and 18.   Disappointed.   I fought all the way back from 3‑down.   I had all the momentum and I didn't put the ball on the fairway on 17 and didn't put the ball in the fairway on 18.
I don't feel I handed the match away, but I definitely made it too easy on the last two holes.

Q.   How hard was that chip on 18?   A lot of us could tell you were down, how difficult was that?
JIM FURYK:   It was a little bit of a lie.   I was in the short cut with a little bit of grain against me and expected it to be sticky.   I've been working all week really on the sticky overseed of making sure I really accelerated the club through the ball and I didn't there.   I kind of decelerated and quit on it.   Just a poor shot.   It wasn't an easy shot, but I should have been able to get it up there within six or seven feet inside, at least to give myself a par chance.

Q.   Overall, the week, your play has been very, very consistent, though?
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, I just‑‑ I think really what the difference was today that I just didn't hit it in the fairways.   And when I missed the fairways, the ball didn't turn out in a very good spot.   I felt like I got some bad breaks with where the ball ended up.   When I hit‑‑ I didn't hit the ball enough in the fairway.   I felt like I was putting better than I was the last few days.   But because I didn't put the ball in the fairway enough, I didn't give myself enough opportunities.

Q.   At the start of the week would you have taken quarter finals on Saturday?
JIM FURYK:   Well, I don't think any athlete would‑‑

Q.   Not satisfied with it?
JIM FURYK:   No, I don't think any athlete would.   It ruins the whole fun.   I feel like I played well.   But if you told me I could have 5th every week, there would be no reason to show up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT