WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 19, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JIM FURYK:   I actually hit some good shots.   I had some putts slide by the hole.   I had my chances on like 11, I had a good eagle putt that didn't go.   
12, I had a good birdie putt, a little hard.   
I had good putts on 14 and 15.   I actually didn't quite hit them.   So one ended up hanging on the front edge and one kind of just died out low.   
I actually had a lot of good opportunities for birdies, I just didn't always convert.   Some of them were pretty good putts that didn't go in and some of them I could have hit some better putts.   
I played solid.   I hit a lot of fairways and lot of greens.   The score is not probably going to plow anyone today, 3‑under.   But it was a solid round.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible?)  
JIM FURYK:   No, no.   But I feel like I need to‑‑ there's a lot of places where carrying corners and bunkers and that are kind of tough for me.   
I think in talking to my dad a little bit, he's been kind of hinting that I'm trying to play it a little bit more like stroke play, if that makes sense.   I tend to worry about the golf course and try to carry some corners instead of just playing my game and keep throwing it in the middle.   From there my iron game is pretty sharp.   Give yourself some chances to putt at it and if you make some putts, you'll do well.  
   
 Q.   Have you found yourself (inaudible)?  
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, I think when the greens here get real firm, I think it puts ‑‑ because of the way I play, I'm kind of not a real high ball hitter, not a real long hitter, it makes me want to hit the ball a little higher, a little harder.   You can still set up‑‑ there's still some places you just have to suck it up and hit good shots but there's places where you can creat some angles.   I think I feel like in the past at times I worried too much about the match play part of it and not just going out and playing my style.  
   
 Q.   One of the things that's come up this week is perhaps changing the format where you play two rounds of stroke play and then cut 16.   Would that be a better option for everyone involved, that way you get two rounds and you are not worried about getting off to a slow start and getting sent home after 15 holes?  
JIM FURYK:   I don't know.   I guess I'm more concerned with where we're going and what course we're playing.  
   
 Q.   What are you hearing?   
JIM FURYK:   Nothing.   Nothing real solid is what I mean.   I've heard the rumors of Harding.   I think that's a great golf course.   I've heard rumors of Columbia.   I've heard rumors of Florida.   I don't know where the heck we would go in Florida.   Seems like we already play every city in Florida.   
I don't know.   That's something ‑‑ even being on the Board, it's something we never talk about on the Board.   We haven't had a meeting yet this year.   It's rarely that we talk about future sites.   We usually hear about that after the deal has been made.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT