BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2013
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What were your emotions like inside?   
JIM FURYK:   A little hectic down the stretch.   Obviously the three‑putt at 5, I hit two good putts that didn't go in, and then you could tell the nerves at 6, leaving the putt short a little bit.   But the putt at 7 got me going, and I was bummed, I was kind of in between clubs at 8 and had a chance of making a birdie, and just told myself on 9, I said, how many opportunities are you going to have in your life to do this?   Got to take advantage of it, tried to knock it in there tight and make it as easy on yourself as you can.   
   
 Q.   Now, you started your day on No.10.   Let's go back out to the golf course and I'll show you a couple of shots.   The audience has already seen most of the highlights.   Let's see what you saw.   
JIM FURYK:   A bunker.   There isn't much.   The pin was only cut about five from the right edge there, and really I watched the gallery.   They started standing up, and that's how I knew it went in.  
   
 Q.   Let's go to the other side of the golf course.   You hit the fairway on 9, which was key, your final hole.   Which was your second shot.   
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, just kind of a smooth gap wedge for me, kind of bread and butter.   Hard enough where I could hit it but not like‑‑ it wasn't an easy shot.   I could make a good swing at it.   It was kind of a perfect yardage.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever had a three‑footer more difficult on a Friday afternoon?  
JIM FURYK:   Not on a Friday, on a Sunday.   Maybe the one to win the FedExCup.   
   
 Q.   So at that moment right there, you realize what you did.   Do you realize the historical significance of what you've done today?   
JIM FURYK:   Probably not.   It'll sink in later.   I'm excited.   The second part of that is I'll have to calm down later on tonight and realize that I've got myself in contention in a golf tournament where I was, whatever, nine back starting the day.   I still have a good weekend ahead of me.   I'm excited for that.   But no, I'll enjoy these next few hours at least and have fun with it.  
   
 Q.   You've had some long, long days and nights in your career on the PGA TOUR.   What do you think it's going to be like as you look back on this day?  
JIM FURYK:   I think I'll sleep pretty good.   Usually Sundays I don't ever sleep, whether I play good or play poorly, I'm always running back to the moments from the day where I could have improved, and there's not much I could have improved on today, so I think I'll sleep well.  
   
 Q.   You've been with your caddie Mike "Fluff" Cowan for a long, long time.   It's an individual sport, we recognize that, but what was his contribution to your day today?   
JIM FURYK:   He's always there for me.   He's ailing right now.   He's got a shoulder that's bothering him.   I can tell it's getting to him to pick up the bag, but he's out there gutting it out.   He's been there for me day in and day out for 22 years.  
   
 Q.   Was this the best round of golf you've ever played?  
JIM FURYK:   Absolutely, absolutely.   I've played a couple of good ones throughout my career.   I remember a 62 at Doral once where I think the next best score was 67.   That kind of defines really good rounds is a guy goes out and shoots four or five shots better than the rest of the field.   But that magic number, it's hard to get under 30 on nine, and then it's really hard to get under 60 for a day.   It definitely played some tricks with my head on the way in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT