DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2013
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another nice round.   Can you just talk about what this day has been like with the delay before you started?
JIM FURYK:   Well, it's better that way than getting caught in the middle of the round where you have to come in or the guys that had it tough were the guys that went out and played a few holes this morning, and then you come in and you have to restart.   That's kind of an awkward day.   I guess they had to do something like that at Kapalua this year.   I can only remember doing that at the Memorial one year.   Maybe we did it at Pebble Beach once, I can't remember.   But I remember doing it at the Memorial where they started off and they had to cancel about five holes or so for some guys.
But it's awkward but it's part of what we do.   It wasn't really a big deal for me.   I wasn't really warming up.   I was on the way out the door, when play was suspended, to go warm up.   So I had another breakfast and hung out. 

Q.   You started out hot with five birdies on the back?
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, actually I could have really got it going on the backside.   I left about a 15‑footer on 15, right in the jar, about two inches short.   I hit a beautiful shot in 18 that trickled over the green.   I wasn't able to get it down in two and still shot 30 on the back.   I played real well.
And then I still played good on the front, but not nearly as well, shooting 3‑under.   But I think I only had to get it up and down on the hole on the last, and I hit a fat iron shot in there, trying to stretch a 6‑iron.   Probably should have hit a little 5.

Q.   You played six of the last seven weeks, and you've had very good results the last four.   How do you explain that?   Some people would be‑‑
JIM FURYK:   Six out of seven? 

Q.   You played The Open then took a week off‑‑
JIM FURYK:   Well, I did, I played from The Open.   No, from The Open I played Open, Canada, Bridgestone and PGA.   Had a week off.   So I have played six out of seven.   Just the way the schedule works out.   Two Major championships and a World Golf Championship and then I represent RBC in Canada, and four events.   I took a couple of weeks off in front of the British, anticipating that.
At this time of the year I know guys are tired and maybe losing their patience a little bit.   But I take a lot of time off in the fall and into the spring.   I usually take about three and a half months off.   So about this time of the year I'm always seeing the light at the end of the tunnel so my patience seems to be all right.

Q.   How much would it mean to you to make or to be chosen for the Presidents, and how close do you think you are to that?
JIM FURYK:   I've got a lot of work to do to finish‑‑ if I were to finish in the top‑10 I think I would have to fire something as low or lower tomorrow, would be my guess.   I definitely put that in the hole a little bit with 4‑under the first two days.   But I just wasn't able to see any‑‑ I played really well, I just didn't see any putts go in.   And today on that first side I got to see a whole bucket go in, so it was fun.
As far as the pick and that, it's going to be tough for Freddie.   He's got a bunch of guys‑‑ I think he's got me, Strick, Dustin Johnson, Bubba Watson and a lot of other good players from the outside looking in. 
So I know they're all trying to move up and get in the top 10 and you've got some great players in the top 10.   We've got a best of your knowledge of veterans really on the team and real close, guys that have been in those events.   It's going to be a tough choice for Freddie. 
I'm obviously trying to give him a good reason‑‑ I've been playing well, but all I can do is really go out there and play a good round of golf and not really worry about that sort of stuff.   I appreciate those teams, I like playing on them.   But if you focus on it, put too much pressure on yourself, it's impossible to take it.

Q.   Most times if you're shooting what you shot today you'd be really zooming up the leaderboard.   Are you leaderboard watching at all or do you feel like you just really‑‑
JIM FURYK:   Actually I'm doing pretty good.   I started in the mid 40s and got‑‑ I'll probably be in the top 15 by the end of the day.   That's a pretty good group.   There's guys hitting good numbers out there.   It's soft.   You've got ball‑in‑hand, which allows you to get out of jail sometimes.   And with a small field the scores get spread out a little bit more.   In a hundred player field those scores start getting drawn out a lot more instead of packing up.

Q.   Do you have to make any allowances at all for playing so many events in a seven‑week period?   Are you packing more 5‑Hour ENERGY drinks? 
JIM FURYK:   I had a few more in the last couple of weeks, I will say that, than usual.   But I think a little bit it's more your frame of mind, your attitude.   I think my practice schedule has been a little bit lighter.   But I've been playing well, too, so it makes it easier to have a lighter practice schedule.
Monday I took the day off and spent some time in the city with my management group.   Tuesday I had an outing down the road in Plymouth.   Wednesday instead of going out and playing nine holes like I usually would, I hit some balls and worked on the short game real hard and felt like I had a great practice day.   I was only out here probably like three hours, which was nice.
You do stuff like that so that you have some legs and energy by the end of the weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT