PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2013
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Did you feel you still had a pretty good chance on 16? 
JIM FURYK:   Well, yeah, I think that I obviously didn't want to be 3‑down with two to play, and he hit a great shot in there.   He hit three iron shots within a foot of the hole where he had tap‑ins for birdie, and he played incredible.   He played a great round of golf.   So once he hits that one close, and he's hitting all the fairways and greens, and I knew I needed to knock that putt in and try to put some pressure on him on 18, the last two holes on 17 and 18.   I actually hit some pretty good shots on 17 and 18.   Just wasn't able to come away.   I hit the fairway on 17 and was kind of bothered by that overhanging tree and with that uphill lie, I couldn't get the hybrid to cut like I wanted to.   The tee shot at 18, it was just too far for me to dig that one out. 

Q.   Does the fact that you played the way did you ease the sting?
JIM FURYK:   I sat here and told you that I was going to have a good time today.   I was going to have fun.   I have no regrets.   I played my heart out.   I played a very, very solid tournament.   You know, again, think if I could go back, I would love to make par on 17 and 18 and put some heat on him and I wasn't able to do that. That's the one thing, it's a little bit of a thorn in my side, but he played well.   I mean, you know, like I said, he hit it a foot on 5.   He hit a foot on 16, and he hit it a foot somewhere else today, maybe 8. 
So you know, three iron shots where he hit it in there, tap‑in distance, and you know, I didn't hit it as crisp and I didn't play quite as good a round but when I look at the scores coming down the stretch, you didn't really see a lot of low scores in those last couple groups.   You saw a lot of 70s, 69 I think was sprinkled in there.   He was able to shoot 68.   I was 1‑under par with two to play.   With the lead it was a good, solid round, but got beat by a guy that played better today. 

Q.   What did you say to Jason after? 
JIM FURYK:   I just told him how well I thought he played, and I was happy for him.   Wasn't maybe worded exactly that same way, but that was the gist.   Basically just respect.   I really felt he played a good round and I told him.

Q.   At any point did you change your strategy? 
JIM FURYK:   I picked and chose my spots.   I was aggressive on 13, trying to, I knew kind of in the morning, that unless something changed, I was going to knock it down there.   I hit my drive a little farther than I wanted to but I was going to knock it down by the creek and take a 3‑wood over the top so I could get a wedge in my hands rather than a 9‑iron.   When I saw the pin, I was licking my chops because I hit it close three days in a row and wouldn't be hard to hit it there again.   I was a little worried trying to keep the ball from spinning back like Jason did in the first cut of rough.   I was trying to let it skip on that hill and let it comeback, and somehow came out a little farther than we thought and came out on top.   That caught a piece of the hole and it wasn't going very fast.

Q.   You've had a lot of success since Olympia Fields; is it hard to treat Majors differently than ordinary tournaments? 
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, but I think as the years go on, it's getting, I won't say easier; it's getting less difficult, how's that.   It's hard to talk yourself into the fact that it is a golf tournament, in that‑‑ I realize it's a major, and I guess I've always said, we were judged by how many tournaments we win; the best players are judged by how many major championships they win.   You get four pops a year; this golf course set up very well for my game.   I love the golf course.   I played pretty well the last time here.   I was excited to come in.   They pinched the fairways down.   Everyone was playing from the same spots.   It's set up very well for someone like Jason or I for our game.   I came here on a roll playing pretty well, made a few adjustments the last few weeks in the driver and the putter, and actually have a lot of confidence in my game right now, something I haven't had through a lot of the summer.
That being said, you get four chances.   I told you I was going to view today as an opportunity, and you know, there's other times I really felt like the tournament slipped through my fingers and out of my grasp and I was definitely disappointed.   You know, I played my heart out today.   No regrets over it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT