WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2013
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Decent day for you?
JIM FURYK:   Yeah.   You know, I'm still a little mad at myself for making bogey on 18, but only two bogeys today, 9 and 18.   Played very solid.   Left a couple putts out there, but I also made some really good plays.   I didn't hit as many fairways today.   I think I only hit about eight fairways and I made some good plays out of the rough and some good saves for up‑and‑down.   All in all a very solid day.

Q.   Are you encouraged going into next week with where your game is?
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, but I think right now I'm focused more on the weekend, on the next two days.   You know, I'd love to see it‑‑ I guess we're supposed to get a lot of rain tonight possibly.   I'd love to see it firmer and faster like it was last year, but we'll deal with what we got. 
I was disappointed with a couple months in the summer, and then poor showing at the British, but I feel like some of the work I've been doing is paying off.   I played well last week at Canada, finishing ninth, and you know, I haven't been scoring real well this summer, so I don't feel like I've been getting a lot out of my rounds, and I feel like I did a pretty good job of that the last two days.   Hopefully it carries on to the weekend.

Q.   Have you been working a lot on your putting?
JIM FURYK:   I think it's been short game, it's been a little of everything.   It's easy to blame it on your putting.   I feel like if you all would have listened to me at the British, I was upset with the way I drove the ball, although I didn't hit a lot of drivers there and I was upset with the way I putted at the British. 
I was upset at the U.S. Open with the same two things, I drove it badly and I putted poorly.   That's two of the three most important clubs, and next is the wedge, and I really don't feel like my short game has been that sharp this summer, as well, and I think that's why I wasn't playing as well.   So I've really worked hard on my short game.   I've always worked hard on my putting.   That's part of it, and it's streaky, and that's how it goes.   I'm starting to feel a little better with the putter.
I changed drivers at Canada to a new driver Callaway brought out just a few weeks ago called the Optiforce, and it's made a big difference for me. 

Q.   You played so well here.   Talk about coming back here this year; do you have a better taste in your mouth? 
JIM FURYK:   You know, I played really well last year except for the last hole, played great up until then and then made 6 on the last hole.   It's over.   I think in the weeks leading up to this event, I was asked a lot about it, about coming here, and actually somewhat offended by one of the interviews, and I let that person know.   I expected more of it when I got here, and not one person said a word about last year other than the fans kind of cheering me on and wishing me well.   But the way I look at it really is last year was last year.   It's done.   It's over with.   I'll never get it back, and there's no sense in really dwelling on it.   I got it out of my system and thought about how I could have handled the situation better and how I could have played that hole better. 
It's a brand new year, and I really don't even feel like we're playing the same golf course as we did last year, just from the conditions.   It was really firm, really fast, really hard last year.   I hit sand wedge and lob wedge into 18 for two days last year.   That's really just not going to happen.   The golf course is soft right now.   The greens are very receptive.   They're still quite quick for being as moist as they are, but it's a different, different golf course.   You can be a lot more aggressive on it, and you're going to see more birdies on it this year.

Q.   What offended you?
JIM FURYK:   Not worth talking about. 

Q.   How long did that stick with you last year? 
JIM FURYK:   A week or two.   I mean, there's events that throughout my career have bothered me, events I thought I should have won or I could have won and I wish I could have a shot back here or a shot back there, but that obviously goes in a catalog of those events.   But the guys that dwell on that sort of thing and don't get over that sort of thing end up kind of hitting road blocks in their careers, and that's just never been an issue for me.   It's done with.   It's gone.   I get upset about it, but I think of a lot of major championships I had the opportunity to win and I was just that close and didn't get over the hump.   The tough ones bother you for a week or two, or me at least, and then it's gone.   By the time I show up to play the next event, it's out of my system, or really it's not worth showing up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT