AT&T NATIONAL
June 27, 2013
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jim, nice playing out there.   I'm a little surprised the scores are not better.   Is the course soft?   How tough is it? 
JIM FURYK:   It's playing pretty tough.   I guess I'm a little surprised too.   The greens are receptive.   They were real good this morning.   Got beat up a little bit by this afternoon, but it wasn't overly breezy.   Got the cloud cover to keep the moisture on the golf course.   It was just a long, hard golf course.   Hitting a lot of long irons.

Q.   It is a big ballpark.   You look at the forecast, and it's going to be in the low 90s today.   Looks like you guys got a nice break with the cloud cover today. 
JIM FURYK:   I think so.   If this burns off and we get some sun, this will bake out a little bit and probably get a little tougher.   I'm also hearing there may be some rain on the way.   Hopefully, that stays away.

Q.   Obviously, Fluff is a member here.   How big an asset is that?   Or is it business as usual? 
JIM FURYK:   I think it's good.   We still have to work hard on our lines off the tee.   He plays from a different set of tee boxes and doesn't see some of the tee boxes.   Members don't see some of the tee boxes we're playing from.   So we have to work pretty hard on lines off the tee, but he's been a pretty big asset on the greens, and there's a couple putts out here where he'll say, hey, I know it looks like it's going to go left, but it doesn't go as much as we think, and he'd probably be right.

Q.   Keep up the good work. 
JIM FURYK:   Thanks.

Q.   We've haven't seen a lot oflow scores out there.   Is it tough out there? 
JIM FURYK:   I thought it was.   I felt like I played well, didn't make a lot of mistakes.   Only one bogey on my card.   With the cloud cover and the golf course being as soft as it was, I would have thought there would have been a 3, 4, maybe even a 5 under.   It was just a long, hard golf course.

Q.   Has it changed any in the last couple of days? 
JIM FURYK:   Well, I was wondering yesterday‑‑ it played softer in the Pro‑Am.   It played really long, but the greens were receptive.   I was wondering if they were maybe keeping some water on it, trying not to burn it up because of how hot and humid it is.   I'm sure a lot of that was the cloud cover this morning.   As long as we don't get a lot of rain between now and the weekend, I expect it will get a little firmer and faster and see the greens brown out, and it will get tougher. 

Q.   When you see a course like you see this week and you know it's supposed to blow off in the afternoon, do you feel like you can get away with one when you have the early or late tee time? 
JIM FURYK:   You never know.   I never look at the weather.   I never look at it as, oh, wow, I'm going to be lucky in this draw.   I guess we all look at it like, oh, gee, look at this, it's supposed to rain tomorrow afternoon.   Going to get the short end of the stick.   I always try to stay positive.   Never know how it's going to fall.   You're dealt those tee times anyway.   So might as well make the best of it.

Q.   One shot at a time.   What do you prefer?   Something where the scores are lower, or do you prefer what's ending up‑‑ what it's ending up to be like out here? 
JIM FURYK:   We don't know exactly what's going to happen here.   The morning scores, I was surprised when I got to the 7th tee and looked up and saw I was tied for fourth or fifth.   I was scratching my head going, wow, the scores are pretty tough today.   And then I was kind of excited because I had some opportunities in front of me.   I had a short iron for the rest of the way if I could get the ball on the fairway. 
It's a long hard golf course.   I'm surprised, though, with the cloud cover, with the dampness on the golf course, that I would have thought someone would have shot 4 or 5 under, but I'm glad they didn't.

Q.   How many times did you find the rough? 
JIM FURYK:   A few.   A few.   It's not U.S. Open, where you can't advance the ball, but it's difficult in spots.   There are some key spots where you have to hit the ball on the fairway.   9 tee is a good one.   If you don't hit it in the fairway there from that back tee, it's tough to lay the ball up in a place where you can get the ball on the green or have a good opportunity to get the ball on the green. 
I'm a little surprised by the scoring, but also I know how difficult the golf course was.   I think the scoring we saw at the U.S. Open here was very atypical of this golf course.

Q.   [ Inaudible ].
JIM FURYK:   Driver on the fairway.   Kind of got caught on the upslope.   I hit a hybrid into the layup area and still had an 8 iron, which was‑‑ I misplayed the shot.   I hit it a little too far, hit it about 30 feet past the pin and had to two‑putt.

Q.   The 3 hole? 
JIM FURYK:   It was a long hole today, into the breeze a little bit.   The golf course is playing long.   I was surprised.   Yesterday tipped every tee out.   Pro‑Ams, they always have the tees played back.   But it was a bit softer yesterday on the fairways.   It played long.

Q.   Took longer today than it did yesterday? 
JIM FURYK:   No, yesterday it played a little longer.   Still playing pretty long today.   That might have something to do with the scoring.

Q.   Jim, 11 for you, what's that? 
JIM FURYK:   I had a good drive this morning second hole, and I had a hybrid in as well.   Put it just short of the green.   It's usually‑‑ I've usually got some‑‑ it's not normally a 3 wood, but usually anywhere from‑‑ if it's playing real short, it's a 5 iron.   If it's playing long, it's a hybrid.

Q.   So length, rough, anything else making the scoring tough out here? 
JIM FURYK:   It's a hard layout to start with.   It's not‑‑ I don't know if the golf course was unfair.   Still they didn't‑‑ after the U.S. Open came, they didn't widen out the fairways.   Originally, before the U.S. Open, these fairways were much wider than they are right now.   They kept the U.S. Open lines.   The rough isn't U.S. Open hard, but it's still difficult.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT