MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about 15, the clubs you had today compared to yesterday.   
JIM FURYK:   Today I laid up with the same club that I knocked‑‑ that I was hitting at the green yesterday.   A hybrid.   Yeah, I was kind of chipping a hybrid down there, and actually I laid it up a little bit too close.   But it changed.   Yesterday that wind was kind of down and right on 15, today it was mostly in and on the right, so totally different‑‑ a totally different look.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the lay‑up shot there and the danger of that hole, what happens there.   
JIM FURYK:   Well, you kind of pick your poison.   You've got a wide area there that you can lay up on as far as what angle you want to come to the pin.   I like to come in a little more from the right side of the fairway to that pin, but today if I had to do it all over again, I laid up too close to the water, and the shot that I hit, I kind of hit a little low bump and I kind of toed it and it came out hot without any spin, and it got down there a little farther than I wanted.   
The closer you get to that pond, the slope gets much more severe.   So I got a little too close, left myself a real touchy half shot but off of a pretty severe downhill lie, and after I dunked it in the water I backed up about 10 or 12 yards and the reason was to get on a little more of a flat lie and get a little bit more‑‑ leave myself more of a three‑quarter shot where I could get a little more aggressive with it and make a little bit more of a full swing.  
   
 Q.   Where does your experience help you most?   
JIM FURYK:   I think probably on this golf course, where and when you can attack.   You know, after making double at 15, wanting so bad to go at the pin on 16, trying to squeak it back there, and I think slowing down a little bit, trying to figure out what the percentage play was, what club.   I was in between clubs right there, what I wanted to hit.   Fluff made a really good call, and in hindsight there really shouldn't have been in between clubs.   It was a 6‑iron the whole way.   He helped kind of slow me down and calm me down and pick the right club right there when I was swirling a little bit after the double.  
But I think there's just‑‑ on this golf course with some of the pins and the severity of the wind today, there's going to be places where you can attack the golf course and there's going to be times where you've got to kind of bite your lip and play conservative and hit to certain spots on the green, get out of there with par and move on.   So I think a lot of that would be playing here‑‑ playing a bunch of events and having the experience.   
   
 Q.   As someone who got put on the clock at the U.S. Open, can you imagine what it was like to be the 14 year old from China getting put on the clock‑‑  
JIM FURYK:   I just heard.   I'm not exactly sure what happened today.  
   
 Q.   He got put on the clock the back nine and then got a penalty assessed after his second shot at 17.   He was hovering on the cut line.   It looks like he'll make it.   
JIM FURYK:   Right.   What is he at?   
   
 Q.   4‑over.   
JIM FURYK:   No, I can't imagine what that would be like.   But then again, I can't imagine what it's like to be 15 and playing in the Masters and having an opportunity to make the cut.   Pretty amazing.   
To not be in awe and to not be probably blown away with the moment playing in this event, I know it's frustrating, and it flusters a lot of players that have experience and play the Tour for a living to get put on the clock and to be behind.   But a 16 year old, I can't imagine, put it that way.   So no.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit in at 18?  
JIM FURYK:   I also have a hard time believing a group was behind today, because it wasn't playing that quick out there.  
   
 Q.   How big was it to get one on 18 given what happened at 15?  
JIM FURYK:   It was nice.   It was nice.   I felt good about the shots I hit at 16 and 17.   I had good birdie putts but I wasn't able to convert.   I hit driver, 8‑iron in there, so it was nice to‑‑ I know I've got that backstop.   I've hit it in there close before, and obviously a hole you can attack.   So it was nice to actually not even have to work too hard for it, either.   I had kind of a kick‑in.   I felt like I shot under par today, so 72 or 73 today would have been maybe a kick in the pants a little bit, so it was nice to get it in 1‑under and feel good about the round.  
   
 Q.   Mentally would you say it's easy to be one back in a major?  
JIM FURYK:   I'd rather be 10 ahead.   How's that?   I am a guy that always likes‑‑ I like‑‑ the more ahead, I'd rather be the front runner than the chaser, but you're dealt a hand.   I've won from both ends, but I would much prefer to be the front runner, and everyone always asks why from a mental standpoint.   But ultimately there's going to be a score that wins at the end of the day, and the guy that's leading doesn't have to shoot any lower‑‑ doesn't have to shoot lower than anyone else.   You can shoot the worst score and win.   I would much rather always be ahead.  
   
 Q.   Of the four majors where does this one rank in terms of where you feel you have the best chance of winning a major?   Or is it all equal?  
JIM FURYK:   No, it's definitely not all equal.   After 20 years on Tour, you just look at the results.   It probably ranks third for me as far as the‑‑ my percentages.   U.S. Open I've had‑‑ I've won and I've had numerous chances to win and a bunch of second places, so that one obviously favors my game the most.   Depending on where the Open Championship is and the venue, there's times where I think that suits my game more than Augusta.   There's times where I think Augusta suits‑‑ what's the one I'm looking for, the Home of Golf‑‑ St. Andrews is fourth.   There couldn't be a worse venue for me.   
   
 Q.   Is it over time you've just figured out this place or matched up your skills to it?  
JIM FURYK:   I almost won here, and my best chance to win was my third Masters in '98 was probably my best chance.   
But no, I think I've learned it.   I think a lot of it deals with the conditions.   You get in here and it's real cold and wet and sloppy, it's playing long, then I know it's going to add a lot more degree of difficulty for me.   If we can get it firm and fast and the ball chasing on the fairways a little bit, the wind coming from the left like it is today, much better.   I've said that all along.   It neutralizes 15 a little bit, you can get some of the longer par‑4s like 7 and 14 and 17 and shots into the wind can be a little bit more difficult.   Now you get those downwind.   
Today I hit 9‑iron into 7, 9‑iron into 14, and I hit a gap wedge into 17.   You get those holes into the wind, sometimes I'm hitting 5‑iron into those holes when it's wet and into the breeze.   You kind of neutralize that down, so I think that‑‑ I love playing here.   I think I have‑‑ I always think that I can compete and have an opportunity to win, but I guess depending on the conditions, I probably rank it second or third amongst the majors.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT