VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 7, 2013
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How about that last shot?   Nice way to at least cap the week?
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, it was a nice ending.   I didn't leave myself a particularly good angle.   Ended up on the right side of the fairway, but had a really good number to hit a full sand wedge.   Left it back, perfect yardage, and I knew it was going to be good.   I didn't realize‑‑ I really felt like I hit it stiff, and it obviously I saw it go in. 
I had trouble getting it going today and didn't play poorly.   Actually scrapped it out pretty good, and it was a good way to finish the day.   Would have liked to have had a little momentum earlier.

Q.   What do you take away from this week? 
JIM FURYK:   Well, I played very well.   I don't feel like it was‑‑ it wasn't a bad ball‑striking week, but I wouldn't particularly say it was really crisp or, hey, I'm hitting the ball great right now.   I'm hitting the ball pretty well.   But from where I hit the ball today, where I drove it, where I hit my iron shots, I actually got the ball in the hole pretty good to shoot 69.   So I feel like I'm scoring well.   I'm playing well.   I always consider when I'm playing well, that means I did a lot score‑wise with what I had to work with, and today I scored well. 
There were a few things I need to tighten up in my iron game right now.   I didn't hit my distances very well today.   That's something I usually feel like is a strength of my game, getting yardage with my irons, and I did a poor job of that today for about half the holes.   It cost me a couple shots here and there and cost me some momentum.   I made a good charge today.

Q.   Momentum can be a funny thing in golf.   Do you feel better or worse about your Masters chances this week? 
JIM FURYK:   Way better.   To come in here and finish third and hit a lot of good shots and play well and end on a high note on 18, much, much better. 
To sit at home ‑‑ I can learn more in two rounds out here than I can in seven days at home without a doubt.   So even if I came in here and missed the cut, I would still feel better because I would know exactly what I needed to work on over the weekend and how to prepare.

Q.   This week you had the north wind; you've had a calm day or two; you've had the south wind on this course; what do you take away as far as your thoughts on 18 tee on the Oaks course? 
JIM FURYK:   I think that the golf course was described to me very well by a lot of players and by our staff.   It puts a lot of stress on our rules officials and our staff to set it up well.   This golf course with the severity of the layout, with the severity of the undulations and the slope on the green and the runoffs on the edges of the greens, if they get the course too firm or too fast, it becomes unplayable very quickly.   I think in the past, that's happened.   Especially the guys said that the overseed‑‑ playing a little earlier in the year, the overseed slowed the course down and made it more playable.   Still only 14‑under won.   It wasn't like a birdie barrage out there.   I was only 5‑under for two days and with the windy conditions it was in great shape. 
It's a tough golf course, but it puts a lot of pressure on the staff.   I played well, so I'm going to think they did a good job slowing it up a little bit.   When it was windy, the greens were more receptive, and it gave us a chance to play the golf course.   But the nature of the design being as severe as it is in spots puts a lot of stress on the rules officials to do a good job, and sometimes that's tricky.

Q.   When you watch Martin Laird three straight birdies to finish this thing, shoots 63, 31 at the turn, how impressive is that considering all you just said? 
JIM FURYK:   A good round.   You know, the guys in my group played really well on the back nine.   I shot 3‑under.   I think Charley shot 5‑under on the back and birdied 6 of the last 8.   So I saw the birdies coming in.   Where our group didn't do a good job was jumping off to a good start.   The conditions were supposed to be windy and supposed to be tough most of the day, and they were really benign especially for about holes 4 through 9.   Our group didn't do a good enough group taking advantage of the weather and making birdies in that stretch.   We fell behind, and had a hard time catching up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT