WORLD CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL
November 29, 2012
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So slow start and then it looks like you turned it around on the back nine.   Was there anything that clicked? 
JIM FURYK:   No, I haven't played a lot of golf.   I haven't played since McGladrey, and I haven't played a lot of golf at home.   I'm rusty.   I kind of went on a crash course the last week trying to get ready for this event.   My rhythm is off, my timing is off, and I didn't hit the ball very solid.   To be honest 1‑over wasn't really all that bad for the way I hit it.
Then on the back nine I think I made some better golf swings.   There's some key shots back there you've really got to make a good golf swing.   I was able to do that on those holes, and I made some bad loose swings but always kind of kept the ball in the fairway and in front of me, and I really took advantage of the par‑5s on the back nine.   I birdied all three par‑5s and landed it close on 10 so I was able to make four birdies, and I had no bogeys.   So it was a really good back nine, got myself back in the tournament.
Right now I'm trying to put one foot in front of the other.   My goal was to try to come in here and get a little bit more comfortable with my game every day.   I need to start hitting the ball a little bit more solid and get some rhythm out there.

Q.   Obviously you had a great year in 2010.   Do you look at this as the start of next year or is this the end of this year for you? 
JIM FURYK:   I think it's always different if that makes sense.   It depends on the year.   When I've had poor years or back in '09 I had a little bit of a thorn in my side.   I was a little disappointed with not closing the door and finishing out some tournaments, I came in here ready and playing well.   Last year I had a poor season, I played a lot of golf with the Presidents Cup, and I came in here ready and played pretty well, finished sixth.
This year I was disappointed in my year from one perspective, not winning, but I was worn out, and I really knew and my family knew I needed to get away from golf for a while, so I put the clubs down for a bunch of time. 
I'm disappointed I didn't win, but I'm kind of viewing this as the end of the year rather than the start, and next year at the AT&T at Pebble Beach that will be the start of my next season.

Q.   What's the hardest thing to come back after a long layoff?
JIM FURYK:   Usually it's the short game and the touch and the feel and making good decisions, the competitive part of it, being out there and being on the golf course and choosing the right club, hitting the proper shot.   I think I did all that pretty well today, and I putted very well.   My short game was pretty good today, my touch and feel was there.   But mechanically and in my swing I wasn't real sound.
It wasn't terrible, it's been getting better every day, but it's not where I want it to be, and‑‑ but that being said, I'm really proud of the way I hung in there.   I played a tough round, and I really scored well and played well, which is usually the hardest thing to get back.
But sometimes you take a bunch of time off and your attitude is really good and your mind is free and clear and you're able to play pretty well.

Q.   Were you surprised the scores weren't lower today?
JIM FURYK:   You know, it was tough at times to get the ball close with the greens being so soft.   It took me a while to get used to the speed.   They slowed up a lot with the rain, and we're just used to some putts being so lightning quick.   I'll bet you watching on TV you saw a lot of guys leaving putts a foot short or two feet short.   We're just used to them being so fast and they weren't today, so it was tough.   It took me about six, seven, eight holes to really get my pace well, and then from that point on I putted beautifully the rest of the day and made a bunch of putts.   I eventually picked up the pace, and hopefully I'll be able to do the same thing tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT