THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 21, 2012
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jim, this is a game that we play for a living, sometimes things don't work out, but you gotta hold your head high.   I mean you battled your butt off out there today.
JIM FURYK:   You know, I played a solid round of golf.   I had a really good ball‑striking week to where I made two bogeys this week.   Unfortunately one of them was on the last hole. 
I got a little loose on a couple of shots today and made some poor pitches but was able to knock putts in, like at 17, I had a pretty easy pitch.
I think what I'm most disappointed about is when it came down the stretch, hitting the ball pretty much as good as I can, I made really, really poor swings at 17 and 18 with a 7‑iron and 8‑iron, so to play those two holes and not get one good look at it for birdie was disappointing.

Q.   And a guy that goes out and shoots 60.   I mean you guys were like through six holes, and then you may have seen the scoreboard there.   What were you thinking at that point?
JIM FURYK:   I didn't know what he shot until he made the turn and saw he was finished at 60.   He was 16 under when we were on the sixth green, and I knew it was something really low.   I didn't know where he started.   But 10‑under par, my hat's off to him.   It was a good round.

Q.   Looked like that Back 9 the wind changed, got a little tougher out there.
JIM FURYK:   I don't know if it got any tougher.   The wind definitely changed directions in the middle of our round, right between about 9 and 10.   I would have expected the wind to be kind of into and right‑to‑left on 10.   It was down and right‑to‑left. 
That actually probably threw me a little bit on my second shot.   I didn't hit that iron that bad, but it got too deep into the green and caught the ridge and ran off over the green.   I still ended up with a 4, so it didn't hurt me, but kind of had to readjust.   And checking the weather report this morning, I don't think it was supposed to switch, but it definitely turned about 90 degrees.

Q.   I think it says a lot about your determination and just your character with what's happened prior to this week, but you came back and battled hard out there today.
JIM FURYK:   I appreciate it.   You know, I'm disappointed.   I did battle.   I think at times it's probably a little harder, you know, you see the first guy to post, it's harder to chase that score when it's already in when we're on the sixth hole, than say if it would have progressively happened on the golf course.   But I had my looks, I had my chances.   The putts I made were usually for par.   I didn't make a lot of birdie putts today, and down the stretch I needed to hit a couple better iron shots.

Q.   Thanks for your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT