THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2018
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jim, you've been a class act all week to what has been an unbelievable Ryder Cup.  
JIM FURYK: Yeah, I'm proud of these guys.  They fought.  They came out today, and there was a time this morning where it looked like we had a chance on those first five or six matches, put heat on Europe, and they fought.  My hat's off to Europe.  They played well again.  When it got tough, they turned it around.  And looks like they're going to win the session.  Hat's off to Thomas.  He was a great captain.  His 12 team members played well.   
 Q.  Lovely words.  In your own mind, is there anything that you would have done differently looking back now?  
JIM FURYK: Well, think I'll take a little time to digest.  We still got a match out on the golf course.  It came to a close here within the last 30 minutes.  It's still a little fresh for us at the moment.  We'll regroup, and I'll definitely kind of go through some things in my head and probably work with the PGA of America and our Ryder Cup Committee, and we'll move forward.   
 Q.  How proud are you of the way you said they came out, they fought?  World-class players coming in.  How proud are you that they dealt with this week?  
JIM FURYK: I'm really proud.  I love these 12 guys.  It was an honour to serve as their captain.  I have five vice captains that were world-class players as well.  At the end of the day, you've got to tip your cap.  They outplayed us.  Thomas was a better captain this week, and I've got nothing more to say.   
 Q.  The fatigue factor, people have been talking about that.  Do you look at that, a lot of golf heading into the Ryder Cup?  Does that have any bearing?  
JIM FURYK: I think the fatigue would be making an excuse, and we're not making excuses.   
 Q.  The course setup was very good.  
JIM FURYK: I think the Europeans definitely did a good job on the golf course.  They know it pretty well.  It was set up well, they thought, in their favour, right.  It was a tight golf course.  It's a wonderful golf course.  But at the end of the day, like I said, their captain did a better job than I did.  Their players played very well.  We've just got to tip our caps.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT