DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2012
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another solid week.   This is the last day to impress Davis Love III.   How do you think you have done over the last few weeks to make a good impression?
JIM FURYK:   Last week didn't help my cause.   I missed the cut by one at the Barclays, but I feel like I played solid this week.   I didn't get a lot out of a couple of rounds, especially Thursday and today.   But I think 6‑under yesterday felt good. 
I know they want some hot players, they want some guys that are playing well, and I guess guys like Strick and I are going to be hopeful that they also want some battled veterans and guys that have been there before.

Q.   The news will be, according to Davis, he's going to call you guys to let you know tonight yes or no.   What are you anticipating this evening personally? 
JIM FURYK:   What do you mean what am I‑‑

Q.   Are you expecting to be on the team?   Do you think you're going to be on the team?   Let me just be frank. 
JIM FURYK:   I hope to.   Basically you were dancing around it.

Q.   I'll be frank. 
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, I hope to be.

Q.   Is this a stressful time for you?
JIM FURYK:   I think so.   On the golf course it was stressful, as well, just from the fact that‑‑ especially today, it was a friendly crowd but a lot of people talking about the Ryder Cup and we're rooting for you and we're cheering for you.   It's amazing how much television has picked up not only the FedExCup Playoffs, guys that have to get in the top 70, but I'm amazed how much on the coverage and also on The Golf Channel how much they've talked about the Ryder Cup.   It's important to us to all try to make that team because you all are covering it constantly.

Q.   On that note, has this been more of a distraction or motivation for you? 
JIM FURYK:   Well, I think after the PGA probably a little bit more of a distraction in that it's putting a lot of pressure on myself to perform to play well.   I've played in a bunch of past Ryder Cups.   I know one day I won't be able to play in any more.   I'll be retired, I'll be done, and I'm hoping that day doesn't come too soon.   So I put a lot of pressure on myself.
But I think as we've gotten closer and I didn't make the cut last week, I realized that I've got to quit doing that and worry about just playing golf and try to relax and go out there and play as well as I can. 

Q.   Are you encouraged heading into next week at Crooked Stick and the TOUR Championship the way you're playing right now?
JIM FURYK:   A little bit, yeah.   I feel like I've played well back in Akron, I think the PGA was a little bit of a‑‑ I had trouble focusing that week just to kind of get over what happened at Akron and not closing the door there. 
I came out last week and didn't play particularly well, but it really was more about getting the ball in the hole and scoring.   Mechanically I felt good with my game.   This week I'm still not getting the ball in the hole as well as I would like, not taking advantage of some of the opportunities.   But I think it's promising.   I'll have a solid finish this week, and it will keep me in a pretty good place to finish in the top 30.   I don't really know what to expect next week.   It's kind of awkward to say, but I've never played Crooked Stick.   I don't know if it's a place I'll like playing, if it'll suit my game, I'm not sure.   I know I like playing here at Boston.   I've played well in the past, so I was really trying to have a good week this week, and next week would be the icing on the cake.

Q.   We talked to some of the younger guys who are kind of waiting for the call from Davis, and you've been around this so many times.   Is it easy for you to kind of put tournament play to one side and all this talk about the Ryder Cup on the other?   Is it easier for you because you have been around?
JIM FURYK:   I haven't been in a situation looking for a pick, for a captain's pick.   I've been on the other end talking to a captain when asking who do you think you'd like to see as a pick.   That's a more comfortable position. 

Q.   But you've got to be confident. 
JIM FURYK:   Well, I'm confident in myself and my abilities, and yeah, like I said, it's my favorite event, impossible to forget about, and I've been reminded by not only the media but the fans, and always in a positive light.   It's been in the back of all of our minds, and you hope to get a positive call from him.

Q.   At this stage of your career what would it mean to play on another Ryder Cup team? 
JIM FURYK:   It's always been important to me.   But when you're 42 you realize those years are numbered, as well.   There won't be nearly as many opportunities in the future, and it would obviously mean a lot.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT