WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2012
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Jim Furyk into the interview room.   Jim, I know obviously a disappointing finish there, great playing throughout the week, though.   Just if we can get your comments on how today unfolded. 
JIM FURYK:   A little bit of a dream start, birdieing the first three.   Really had a lot of control of the golf ball today.   Didn't hit the ball in the rough hardly at all, had it in my hand all day, hit some good iron shots, put the ball in the places I needed to. 
Keegan played a heck of a back nine.   He made four birdies on the back maybe, and unbelievable saves at 17 and 18.   He did everything he needed to do to win the golf tournament. 
I felt like I did the same until the 18th hole.   I played very well today, had a lot of control over the ball.   I didn't putt particularly well on the back side.   I putted very well on the front, I thought.   But to just‑‑ I think right now just a little bit in shock with the way I finished up.   I turned a 5 into a 6 and lost the golf tournament on the last hole.   There's no way I should have made double bogey. 

Q.   At the 18th what was the toughest of those shots, or which one would you most like over? 
JIM FURYK:   Really there wasn't one that was as tough as I made it look.   The fourth one was a hard shot to get close because I had a pretty awful lie.   But if I wanted one shot over, I guess it would be the second or the third.   The third especially.   I had the ball sitting high in the rough.   It was sitting up kind of in the middle.   And on that downhill lie, the tendency ‑‑ if you hit down through that, you're going to catch it high on the blade, and I tried to keep from doing so.   I tried to sweep it out of there, and I caught the ball‑‑ I got too steep.   I got the ball real high in the face.   That's why it came out kind of dead, didn't have any power to it, and kind of dumped it short there.
To hit that third shot, it was just a really bad shot.   If I hit it solid and I roll it up against the bank, it rolls down right where Keegan's ball is and we're in a putting contest at that point, both there in 3.   And if I make, I win; if I miss, the worst I'm going to do is tie.   The third shot was the one that probably is the thorn in my side. 

Q.   You're trying to turn over a 7‑iron into a left‑to‑right wind?
JIM FURYK:   I was trying to aim it right at that pin and hit a nice hard draw and hold in the breeze.   The breeze was pretty hard left to right.   It may have been too much club.   In hindsight it may have been an 8‑iron. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JIM FURYK:   Well, my answer to that would be it's downhill, there probably was a little breath behind us, and I hit 7‑iron about 173 yards, but that ball through‑‑ I'm not sure what the pin was off the top of my head, but that ball flew over the green.   I wasn't really worried about the distance when I hit it, I was worried about that I knew I hung it to the right. 

Q.   I'm not sure if I can speak to this at this point, but there's been a couple of examples now this summer of how cruel the game can be.   I just wonder how you look at that.   It happened to Adam Scott; tough final day for you at the U.S. Open, as well.   I just wonder how you look at that in those terms. 
JIM FURYK:   I'm not sure I understand the question, about how I look at it.   I've known it's a cruel game for a long time, and I guess we're pretty‑‑ I feel bad for what happened to Adam, but I think that it doesn't affect you when it's not you, if that makes sense. 
So I go back to the U.S. Open and the chances I had there, coming in tied with three holes to play, and played poorly the last three holes.
And here, I led the golf tournament the entire way and lost it on the very last hole.   To get that close and to know that I played more than good enough to win the golf tournament and not close the door is disappointing.   I don't know how better to answer your question.   I'm not dodging it.   It is a cruel game, and I don't think‑‑ I've lost some tournaments in some pretty poor fashions, but I don't think I've let one ever slip nearly as bad as this one.   This was my worst effort to finish off an event. 

Q.   I'm sorry if you answered this earlier, but the last putt, were you just trying to ram that in there?   Was that a putt you didn't want to break? 
JIM FURYK:   I was trying to hit it obviously on the firm side, but I pushed it really bad, so I never gave it a chance.   It was a very quick stroke, and if I had to do it all over again I'd probably try to hit a putt like I do every other time and just kind of die it in the hole.   I wanted to take a little bit of break out of it.   I figured being here, being excited, you're going to go ahead and hit a relatively firm putt either way, so try to take a little break out of it, but I pushed it real bad.   It was a really terrible putt. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT