WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2012
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Jim Furyk into the interview room after an even par‑70, one birdie, one bogey.   Played a little bit tougher out there today.   If we can just get your comments on the round. 
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, I think the golf course definitely played tougher today.   We had a little bit more wind going on, the greens firmed up a little bit, and I just felt like it was a lot harder to get iron shots close to the pin.   I hit a couple good shots, whether they got through the wind a little better than I thought or got knocked down a little bit by the wind, like the wedge shot on 9, I thought I hit pretty good.   I didn't have as many opportunities, kind of ground it out today and kind of went out a little shaky with the putter missing the good birdie opportunities at 3 and 5, but felt like from that point on hit a lot of good, solid putts and made a couple good putts.   Two or three real good par saves.   Real happy with the way I stroked the ball and pretty pleased with the way I played today. 

Q.   What do you think about tomorrow? 
JIM FURYK:   We'll see.   All's I'm going off of is the weather forecast I got about six hours ago.   It looked like rain and thunderstorms and more chance in the morning, clearing up by late afternoon.   Basically go home and try to get some rest tonight and get a good night's sleep and be out here and ready to go for a 10:00 tee time, and also maybe be prepared to be a little patient and sit around and wait it out a little bit.   It'll be a test of patience if we have to wait, but you also have to be prepared and ready to go. 

Q.   How do you think you're playing compared with the way you did Thursday just given the change in conditions? 
JIM FURYK:   The golf course has firmed up and got even‑‑ it's played shorter even than it was early in the week on Thursday.   The difference is there.   The greens were a lot‑‑ they had a lot more moisture in them, and we could be a little bit more aggressive and fire at flags more than we could today.   Also the wind added to that. 
I'm seeing predictions of 15 to 25 tomorrow with gusts higher from what I saw, so similar direction, I think.   The wind is still mostly coming down the hill.   But it'll be a tough day.   It'll also be interesting to see if it rains how much slower the golf course will play.   The fairways‑‑ won't see me flipping a half a wedge into 18 from‑‑ I think I was like 55 yards to the front or something.   So pretty‑‑ I'm going to remember that one some day when I have to hit driver, 7‑iron in there.   I did drive it up there about 120 yards one day.

Q.   Is that a career best for you?
JIM FURYK:   That drive? 

Q.   That hole. 
JIM FURYK:   That hole, absolutely.   Yesterday I hit 60‑degree, my lob wedge in there yesterday, and I thought that was pretty funny and humorous, and today I was face wide open trying to hit it as easy as I could.   Yeah, it's fun, but you also have to hit that exact spot in the fairway with the driver, so that was nice to be able to do that. 

Q.   Grinding as you were today, did you at any time feel any sense of urgency that you needed a birdie or two to keep some distance behind you? 
JIM FURYK:   You know, I didn't really worry too much about what the board showed or what anyone else in the field was doing.   I was playing hard. 
As far as seeing any urgency to do anything, no, I was trying to play as well as I could, and I had some opportunities.   I think what I could have done better, I had some opportunities when I had wedge in my hand to make some birdies, and I didn't get those wedges and short irons as close as I did the Thursday and Friday rounds.   I think my ball‑striking from tee to green was every bit as good today and maybe even a touch better than it was Thursday and Friday. 
But I didn't attack as well with the short irons like I did on Thursday and Friday, and that's where I got a lot of opportunities and made a bunch of birdies early on.

Q.   What distracted you on 17, the par‑3? 
JIM FURYK:   There was a water bottle that‑‑ I think it was an accident.   I don't know where it came from, but it was just a water bottle that crinkled.   It wasn't a big deal, I was just curious where it came from.   I don't know. 

Q.   Was it Verdi?
JIM FURYK:   Was it Bob?   (Laughter.) I was sensitive ears. 
JOHN BUSH:   Jim, play well tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT