MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just some general comments on your round today. 
JIM FURYK:   Well, I'm pleased with the score.   I played a very patient round of golf.   I kept the ball in good spots, under the pin.   I wasn't in a lot of trouble out there, and I let a couple good opportunities, a short birdie putt at 8 and a short birdie putt at 13, slip by, and actually had a pretty good look at 11, as well. 
But I remained pretty patient and plugged along, put the ball on the green, and although it wasn't all that close all the tile, I hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, and it was nice to finish up, especially in the tough weather, the wind started gusting.   To make birdie on 18 in those conditions was nice.

Q.   Condition wise and how the course played, your general thoughts?
JIM FURYK:   It was very playable today up until it got gusty there at the end.   Our last couple holes got pretty tough.   The last groups are probably going to have to finish up with about six or seven tough holes.   But earlier today there was a light breeze, sunny, the ball was traveling in the air, but the greens were still very receptive and still moist enough that they weren't scary fast today.   You could see some guys getting aggressive, and there was probably a lot of birdies made today.

Q.   Your general thoughts going into tomorrow?
JIM FURYK:   Well, I want to check the weather forecast.   I know when I woke up this morning tomorrow was a very iffy day with the rain forecast, and I think that was for tonight and tomorrow morning and then clearing up again.   I think all of us going out in the morning are hoping for nice even conditions where it's not gusty and difficult in the morning and then clearing up later on in the afternoon.   I've got to look at the weather report, and I have a feeling we're in for a little bit of a tough day tomorrow.   It's going to cool off weather wise, and if it's breezy then it'll just be a day to be very conservative and just try to get in with a good score and keep yourself in the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT