BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2011
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jim, 70 today. You're one of five players who has never missed the trip to Atlanta. What do you think of that at this point?  
 JIM FURYK: Well, it's fun to play well and it's hard to not look at the scoreboard and see how things are going. Right now there's a lot of jockeying for position. I got off to a real slow start. I was 1-over through 8 and played pretty well on the way in. Tomorrow I need to go out and fire a good number.  
  
  Q. Because this situation is so fluid, do you try to look at it and calculate it as it's going on, or do you just say I'm going to go and post a score and figure it out when I check my score?  
 JIM FURYK: As far as getting to the TOUR Championship, I know that yesterday I was looking at the computer after and was projected at 31st, so I know I've got to move up on the weekend. As far as The Presidents Cup, it's on the back of my mind, it's weighing on me. Obviously I want to make the team. The only thing I can really control is how I play. It's hard not to look up at the leaderboard and see how the guys are doing, but ultimately all I can control is how I play, and I need to go out there and probably play a little bit better round tomorrow.  
  
  Q. There's a real sense of you timing your run, like great athletes and teams come good just at the right moment. Is that the feeling, you're getting there bit by bit?  
 JIM FURYK: I'm hoping. I'm hoping. I started to play a lot better about a month or two ago and I've felt some momentum. Not really firing on all cylinders so far this week. I've felt a little loose with my swing and maybe not hitting as many good shots as I would like, but I've really plugged away and really ground out some good rounds. Hopefully -- I got a little bit more comfortable with my game on the back nine today and felt like I played a real solid back nine, so hopefully I can carry that into tomorrow.  
  
  Q. There's a lot on your mind because along with all the FedEx projections there's Presidents Cup, as well?  
 JIM FURYK: You know, there's not much I can do. It's hard for me not to look up at the leaderboard, see how I'm maybe doing in the tournament, how that's going to project in the TOUR Championship. I try not to look up there and think about how The Presidents Cup is working out. But I've really tried to just kind of keep my mind off of it and finish as high as I can at this golf tournament. If I play well, it'll take care of itself.  
  
  Q. Does that mean that there are moments on the golf course where sometimes your concentration can just wander a bit?  
 JIM FURYK: Well, there's times where you've got a lot of time sitting around. You're on a putting green, you're going to be the third one to putt, two guys with you might have long putts, and there's a leaderboard up there flashing scores. It's hard not to pay attention when you've got a few moments. No, I'll look up and I've got an idea where I stand in the field and what I need to do tomorrow. I've played solidly for the first three days, and hopefully I can play well again tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Do you feel better about the tee times tomorrow?  
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, the radar can change real quick, so if you get off to a good start, it would be nice to get in that good rhythm and go. If you get off to a bad start, everything seems to be going a little bit quicker, but threesomes are tough. It was slow out there on the front nine today.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT