DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2011
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Is that the kind of number you were looking for to try to get back near contention?
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, I don't know if it's going to get me back into contention per se. I don't know what the leaders are going to finish at today. But yeah, I wanted to go out there and try to get it started. 
 I got off to a real good start on 1 and 2 and drove it over the green on 4. I thought it knocked it on there and it was looking good, and I kind of had a couple hiccups there at 4, 5, 6, where I three-putted 5. Missed a good birdie putt -- the hiccups were 4, 5 and 6. Didn't birdie 4, three-putted 5 and missed about a ten-footer for birdie on 6. 
 Then rebounded well and birdied 7 and 9 and got it going, and played real well and was real patient on the back nine. Not everything fell, but played real solid, hit a bunch of greens, had a good save at 11 to kind of keep it going and had a good save at 12. Just real happy with the round. I played solid, played better. Still need to improve, still need to get better, but it's a step in the right direction, and I'll try to go out tomorrow and fire another good number. It might have to be really good to think about winning. 
 But I've got a lot of other things on the line, as well, with the FedExCup Playoffs and trying to get close to that top 30, trying to make The Presidents Cup team. There's a lot of different things on my mind right now. I'm at a position, though, where I really -- yesterday it felt like I had a lot to lose. If I missed the cut, I may not be in next week's field. Everything I'm trying to accomplish probably gets washed away. Now I feel like I have a little bit of life left in me, and I have nothing to lose right now. Just go out and play as good as you can and see what you can make happen.

 Q. You probably came into the week thinking, okay, first priority is Chicago, but now --
 JIM FURYK: And I said that in media. I said, hey, first priority is staying in the top 70 to get into next week and give myself another opportunity. Next priority would be to have a really good week and get myself closer to 30th, and last priority would be trying to win a golf tournament, and all of a sudden you'd be in a prime spot to win the FedEx. I never really try to put the cart before the horse. I try to keep things grounded and keep moving.

 Q. I feel compelled to ask if you're headed to Joe and Lou's tonight. 
 JIM FURYK: I had one buddy text me, good karma. I might have to stop by and just make an appearance. I've been out here practicing or actually working out pretty much late every night, so I haven't got a chance to go over, but I'd like to say hello.

 Q. But all the clubs in your bag are in good shape, and you're not looking to --
 JIM FURYK: I shortened my putter a little bit this week, but still learning about the belly, still trying to get everything perfected with balance and length. It's a work in progress.

 Q. But you're not headed there as a cry for help?
 JIM FURYK: I'm not. I'm not. Last year I was a little frustrated and I only had a belly with me. It got to the point where I said, that's it, I can't take anymore, I'm going to go back. I had no other putters, so I had to go find one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT