PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2011
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your assessment of the round and conditions out there?  
 JIM FURYK: Well, the golf course definitely played different today in the afternoon. It was much drier, a little bit firmer. The greens, some of them got quite firm in spots, but you know, I think it's a very good golf course.   
 It's a tough golf course. And it looks a lot longer on the card than it is. I'm shocked at how far the ball is travelling. I don't know if it's because it's so hot, but the ball is flying a long way. It's bouncing in the fairways. So even a guy like, you know, Scott Verplank and I are not the longest guys on Tour, but it's still very playable and I think they have done a good job of setting it up so far. I like the position I'm at and played a very solid round today. That was the key to my round today.  
  
  Q. I'm not familiar with the biography of your putter; have you gone from the belly to the longer one?  
 JIM FURYK: I'm in the belly putter right now. I've never putted with the long one. So just something that I've kind of done -- this is maybe the third or fourth attempt in my career to go to the belly putter, dating back to probably in 2001 or two area.   
 And then I tried it a little bit last year in the Playoffs and threatened a little bit earlier this year, and finally in my week off before the Bridgestone event, I put it in play at home. I still need to get maybe a little bit more comfortable with it, but it feels a lot better than what I was doing before.   
  
  Q. A mile of putts today?   
 JIM FURYK: I wouldn't say that. I made some good, solid putts. On the front side, I had six 1-putts. But three of those were from inside of six feet. The other three, I made a good par save at two from about 15 feet. I made a good birdie putt at 7 from about 20 feet and I made a good par putt at 8 from about 12 feet.   
 Actually, hit a bad first putt at 6 and covered it up with a nice 7-footer on my second putt on 5.   
 So the back nine, I left some out there. I hit a driver and 4-iron into 12 and 3-putted from about 18 feet. And thought I hit the first putt perfect, but it was too hard. I missed it on the way back and then missed about a 6-footer for birdie on the next hole but hit a very good putt.   
 Was pleased with the putt that I hit. It just didn't break the way we thought.   
 But I didn't really hit it that close to the hole the rest of the day to be honest with you. That finish plays tough. I actually had a good opportunity at 16 for birdie. That's one place, I hit it in about 15 feet and caught a piece of the hole and hit a really good putt.   
 I was pleased. I got a lot out of my round today. I didn't feel like I did that yesterday. I felt like I played a lot better than 1-over, and today I was able to capitalize and take advantage of some of the situations.  
  
  Q. What was the difference for you today?  
 JIM FURYK: Really, I knocked some putts in. When I made a mistake, when I missed a fairway, when I missed a green, when I had that 10-footer for par, I was able to knock it in, and I capitalized on more birdie putts today.   
 I really don't feel like I hit it any better by any means. But was just able to score and get the ball in the hole and kind of keep the momentum going.   
  
  Q. We saw 18 wreck be a lot of players scores today, you bogeyed yesterday --  
 JIM FURYK: It was a good bogey yesterday, I drove it in the water. Moving that tee up, I'm sure a lot of guys didn't hit a practice shot from there. You have an idea from the yardage book where to go, but it looks so awkward because you're aiming over the corner of the water a little bit and a much different spot than usual.   
 You could lay it up a little off the tee and stay back and leave yourself a long second shot or be aggressive with the driver. I chose driver, 6-iron, sounded a lot better than 3-wood 3-iron. I chose to be aggressive with the driver and if I missed the fairway, I was going to lay up. I got it in the right shortcut and gave myself an opportunity with 6-iron.  
  
  Q. If we see you at the top of the leaderboard on Sunday on 18, regardless, does it depend where the tee box is for you or --  
JIM FURYK: If the tee box is back, it's a driver all day because it's still a driver and long iron for me at that point. With the tee up, I think that you have to make a decision, and you know, it would definitely depend on the circumstances. There's no definitive play, I don't believe.   
  
  Q. You hit driver?  
 JIM FURYK: I hit driver today, yeah.   
  
  Q. There's obviously some low scores out there. Do you feel like you have to shoot a low score tomorrow in order to distance yourself for Sunday or do you just sort of --  
 JIM FURYK: No, I'm happy with my situation right now. I'm going to be one or two shots back. Be right in the thick of things, teeing off late tomorrow. Really, I'm not really worried about everyone else.   
 I'm just worried about trying to go out there tomorrow, play a solid round of golf, put up a decent number and get myself in position for Sunday. That will be the goal right now.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT