PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2011
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk a little bit about your round.   
 JIM FURYK: I just got off to a little bit of a tough start. I didn't putt very well on my first side on the back nine. Missed too many short ones. I missed a little one at my first hole, No. 10, three-putted 14 from about 15 feet. You know, just honestly struggled a little bit around the greens. I needed to get up-and-down from the front fringe that I didn't get the ball down in two.   
 I squandered a lot of shots on my first side on the back, and then played very solid on the front side, just wasn't able to get the birdie putts to go. I shot 1-under, but I left some opportunities out there, and it all totaled up to 71. It's not a bad score, but I'm disappointed because I should have got a lot more out of it.  
  
  Q. Course play as expected or any surprises?  
 JIM FURYK: No surprises. I think it was set up pretty well actually. I think they did a good job in managing tee placements and some par-3s with the pin placements, and the golf course was very playable, but it could be challenging.   
  
  Q. Bunkers, any issues with those?   
 JIM FURYK: I think that the greenside bunkers and the fairway bunkers are -- they match, and there's a firm base but they're a really soft top, and the ball never really sits very pretty. You can hit a pretty good shot from the greenside bunkers because of that base, and the fairway bunkers the ball is sitting down a little bit. It's been doing that all week. It's just the way -- either the type of sand or the way the sand is manicured that there's a fluffy top on it that the sand is pretty fine and the ball sinks down into it. The greenside bunkers are -- the fairway bunkers are sometimes maybe a little worse than the rough to be honest with you.  
  
  Q. Your approach to tomorrow, round 2?   
 JIM FURYK: No, work on my putting a little bit, try to get a little confidence. I feel a little better about my game. I drove the ball really well today, so hopefully can continue to do that. I'm looking to get off to maybe a little bit better start and get under par early and maybe play from the front instead of always chasing my tail and getting a couple over and trying to get it back.  
  
  Q. Heat a factor at all?  
 JIM FURYK: No.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT