THE HERITAGE
April 24, 2011
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jim, you've had a lot of good days in golf, but today was a struggle though. Just some comments on the round. 
 JIM FURYK: You know what, got off to a decent start. Felt comfortable with my game. Hit some loose shots right around the middle of the round - the tee shot at 7, the tee shot at 8, approach shot at 10, and kind of got myself behind the 8 ball and kind of had to force the issue a little bit. I was still only three back with four to play. 
 On 15 I tried to pinch one in there and couldn't get it close. The greens are very severe right now. They're very firm. Some of those front pins such as 15, 16, even 18 makes it very difficult to get the ball close because you can't really sit out. I tried to squeeze one it in there on 15 and got in a bad spot, and ended up three-putting to modify problems. 
 18, I just made a bad swing. I was trying to hang one right of the green, to be honest with you, and went left of the green. I just kind of got on a bad roll and it snowballed on me today, but the course is very, very, very severe and almost sketchy severe. As severe as I've seen it. My eyebrow's up a little bit on it. 

 Q. The rumor of the day is RBC is set to sponsor here, were you involved in any of the conversations?
 JIM FURYK: I was not. It would be news to me, but I hope so. It would be interesting for them to pick up two events. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
JIM FURYK: No, I bumped the ball as I was addressing it but I didn't (indiscernible). I was asking him if they could look on the tape and I basically got "No, you have to do what you think is right." I asked if I would be DQ'd if it had because I wanted to know, and he said, "No, we'll try to find out before you finish." In that case it would be a two-shot penalty. I was just asking how that worked and if we had an option. I didn't want to hold Luke up either. So he had to endure a lot with me the last four holes to try to win a golf tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT