TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 17, 2011
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 4-under, pretty good start?  
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, it was a good, solid day. I struck the ball very well today. I hit a bunch of greens, kept the ball in play in the fairways. Hit some good putts that didn't go in, but one of the better rounds I've played in a while. So hopefully I can build on it.   
 I was very comfortable out there today, which I was starting to feel better last week, but the scores were not really showing it. Struck the ball a lot better today, and had some confidence in my short game, which is probably allowed me to strike the ball a little bit better and hit some good putts out there.  
  
  Q. Any highlight to the round, any long putt or good saves that kept things going?  
 JIM FURYK: Not really.   
  
  Q. What was the best shot you hit today; another way to put it.   
 JIM FURYK: I hit it there on the 4th hole, which I think is a very tough hole, to a tucked pin in the back right corner, I almost holed a 5-iron back there. I could see the crowd lined of leaning and a big "ohhh" as the ball went by, 2 1/2 feet; so had a short one for birdie. I think that's a good par there.   
  
  Q. So you did make the putt?  
 JIM FURYK: Mm-hmm. I'm saying it's a good par on that hole to make birdie.  
  
  Q. Have you ever seen conditions like this?  
 JIM FURYK: It was calm, very beautiful weather. The greens earlier today were receptive so guys could fire at the pins. Later in the day, they started to get a little bounce to them, especially with the longer clubs going in. I was a little surprised down the stretch. My group hit a lot of good shots, 15, 17, the ball was bouncing. I had two balls that got through the green and they were all very, very good shots.   
 So they were starting to firm up, but I expect by the weekend, they will be quite brown.   
  
  Q. Last one for me, did you go all four years at Arizona?  
 JIM FURYK: I went four and a half, actually. Extra semester in the fall. Played for four and I went an extra fall semester.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT