HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 6, 2011
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just talk about your round a little bit, how it was playing with a marker. 
 JIM FURYK: It was fine. It was fine. I've known this guy for a little bit, see him every year. I think he was obviously probably a little nervous early on, but he actually got off to a great start, birdied 3, birdied 5, had a little -- he missed a little three-footer for birdie on 6, so he was playing pretty good early, and I think he got over the nervousness. 
 It helped me out a lot, though. I'm appreciative for him to come out. We had some big waits. On 17 tee, I think there was a ruling ahead of us. We were waiting most of the back nine anyway, so playing by myself, it would have been tough rhythm-wise. It would have been tough for me to kind of slow down enough to have to wait every shot.

 Q. And how is your game?
 JIM FURYK: All right. I'm a little rusty. I made a couple foolish mistakes out there. But overall for the first round I got off to a good start. I felt really solid on the front. I was leaking a little oil and made a few bad swings on the back, but overall for the first round I felt very comfortable out there and I've got some stuff to work on and build on, but it's a good round to build on.

 Q. Is there any reason why you're the last American to win here ten years ago?
 JIM FURYK: I don't have an answer for you. I was surprised. I heard that this morning actually on The Golf Channel in the locker room. I think right now you've got guys like Appleby and Ogilvy coming off I think possibly wins in Australia or playing in Australia. You've got Ernie Els coming off a win in South Africa, so maybe you have some guys that are playing on the foreign tours that are a little more sharp right now, where a bunch of guys like myself, I've just taken pretty much most of the last three months off. So I'm rusty and I'll admit it, but mentally I'm great. Missed about a 15-inch putt today on 12 and shook it off. I don't think in October I would have shaken it off quite as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT