AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2010
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A few more things happen today?  
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, a little bit better. I felt like I struck the ball better, hit my irons a little bit better. Unfortunately I missed a couple more fairways today, and that made it tough. But I gave myself a few more opportunities, still only three birdies today, but there's not a lot out there. I haven't found too many.   
 The good news is, again, only a couple of bogeys. I think I only have five bogeys for the week, which is super. But I felt like I played better today.   
  
  Q. Describe 18.   
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, never really thought of -- 285 to carry that bunker in the fairway, for a guy like me you really don't think about it, but with the conditions today it was playing short. It was a nice -- would have been a tough pin to get to with a 7-iron being right behind the bunker, but a gap wedge from there -- I hit a good drive and gave myself a chance to be aggressive and get it close.   
  
  Q. Thoughts about tomorrow?  
 JIM FURYK: Hopefully stay within -- it doesn't look like it's going to. I'll be five or six shots back. I still feel like with a good round maybe I can put some heat on someone. But looks like Justin is playing really well right now, and I don't probably see that happening. Hopefully I can go out and fire a good score tomorrow and see what happens.  
 You know, after dinner I'll take a look at the scores and see where everyone is at and get an idea. But I'm guessing right now I'll be a little too far away. But you never know. Never know if those guys stumble a little bit coming in, it'll let a bunch of guys back in the tournament.  
  
  Q. Talk about the greens today.   
 JIM FURYK: I feel like it was pretty consistent. Maybe a touch quicker than they have been, maybe a touch faster, but not any firmer. I thought the course was pretty consistent with the rest of the days. I think it's been playing pretty good all week.  
  
  Q. Do you know some people out there?  
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, it's fun. I've had a fun four days. It's rare that you get an event -- have an event at home you can play in. Rarely do I get to have a week at home and have that much support. Really, I hope everyone has had a great week.  
  
  Q. It looked like you really came close to birdieing that hole.   
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, again, the breeze changed a touch. It's been a little bit more out of the northwest for most of the week, and it changed to mostly out of the west today and it made that hole play a lot shorter. It was downwind, and I decided sand wedge there. I still could have hit it at the flag. If you noticed I had to hit it right of the flag, and it bounced into that hill and popped over, and I had about a 15-footer. But kind of a goofy little pin, really. Yeah, I don't mind the green or the hump. I felt like maybe it was a touch tight to it. But again, you have a sand wedge in your hand so you should be able to get it in there and have a chance at birdie.   
  
  Q. Do you still do the (inaudible)?   
 JIM FURYK: No, I don't. Last year was our last year. We didn't have it this year. I would never say never, but I don't see starting up right now. Chances are probably not, but I would never say never.  
  
  Q. Did you miss it when May came around or June or whenever you had it?  
 JIM FURYK: It was odd. It was odd. The week before that is usually Memorial, and my wife is from Columbus, so we're usually Sunday tearing out of there and trying to get on a plane and get to the gala on Sunday night. It was awkward just relaxing. It was a strange feeling to be honest with you. We got to spend some more time with her friends and family back in Ohio, and it was nice. But we both really also loved the event, loved being a part of it. It was part of a basically ten-year stretch that that happened right after the Memorial, I think. Yeah, it's done a lot of good for the area. I do miss it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT