AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2010
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JIM FURYK: I'm a little taken aback. Usually the first time we go to a new course, they err on the conservative side and we end up shooting better scores than usual that first year. But the pins have been quite difficult. They have the dots out for tomorrow, and they're beauties. Very surprising. 
 Check out No. 6 tomorrow. That one is just mindboggling. 
 Yeah, there's a lot going on on these greens. There's not a lot of flat spots anyway. But I think they've set it up pretty tough so far.

 Q. After that last birdie are you feeling a little bit better about the round?
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, I'm not unhappy about the round. As I said, it's a hard golf course. I made three bogeys all week. I'm happy with that. It's just I haven't been striking the ball, striking my irons well enough, giving myself enough birdie opportunities. I'm happy when I have been in trouble I've been able to get it out of the rough, get it around the green, get it up-and-down for par. Made some good saves, some good par saves the last two days, good putts from ten feet or so. But I haven't been able to make the birdies, and I'm going to have to make more birdies if I want to compete on the weekend.

 Q. How much firmer is it getting out there?
 JIM FURYK: I think it was pretty similar. I thought yesterday and today were relatively similar. We'll see what they'll do over the weekend. 

 Q. Knowing what the pins are going to be tomorrow, does that affect your mindset?
 JIM FURYK: I don't think they're going to be any tougher than they were the first two days. There's a couple beauties out there, but there have been the first two days, too. It's not like they get harder as the week goes on. I think they stagger it. You know we're going to have some good ones finishing on 16, 17, 18 on Sunday, but it's not like every pin on Sunday is that difficult. Just go out and try to keep doing the same things and hopefully I get in a rhythm out there with my ball-striking and just start getting a little more comfortable.

 Q. Do you put a Sunday number in your mind at this point?
 JIM FURYK: No, I'm still trying to figure out what I could have done better on Friday, and tomorrow I'll figure out -- try to figure out how to play a little better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT