AT&T NATIONAL
July 1, 2010
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How about just some general comments on being back in the area and how the course was playing?  
 JIM FURYK: Well, it took me aback. A lot of people were out there cheering for me, even at 8:26 on a Thursday morning, which is surprising. I expect the crowds to be big, especially tomorrow afternoon for the weekend. Yesterday I was surprised how many people came out to watch the pro-am.   
 You know, I'm happy with the round. Tough golf course. There's a lot to be wary of out there, and I made a couple birdies, only made one bogey and kind of kept the ball in front of me and plodded along. Didn't hit the ball my best, but I kept it in the fairway for most of the day, kept it in front of me and made a couple of good putts and up-and-downs when I needed to. But it's a good, solid round, puts me in good shape.   
  
  Q. I know it's early, but talk about what you see as far as scores for this tournament.   
 JIM FURYK: Well, it's still difficult. I thought the pin placements were -- I think I'm a little surprised by the setup more than anything. You know, usually coming back to courses we've played for the first time, it seems like our staff has taken a pretty conservative approach. This course was set up, I think, pretty difficult. The rough out there, I think it's the longest we've seen on TOUR this year.   
 The pin placements today, there was a handful of very difficult and borderline mean pin placements. I was a little surprised. It seemed like they came out of the chute firing. Usually it's a little more conservative. When they redid TPC Sawgrass the first year the setup was pretty mild. They wanted to see what they could do with the golf course. I mean, I expected something similar.   
 But those pins are in some tough spots. I'm guessing there won't be too many birdies on 17 with the pin left near the water.   
 It's hard to tell right now a winning score. It's going to depend on how they want to bake the course out. If it gets firm and fast and the greens get even more difficult throughout the week, then the scores are going to come backwards.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised to see some good numbers out there?  
 JIM FURYK: No, I'm not. It's Thursday. It's Thursday morning. There's still going to be some moisture on the golf course. If the winning score is going to be, say, close to 5-under, someone is still going to be 3-, 4-, 5-under today and then it'll start to slide as we go. I'm not really surprised. No one shot 62 out there. The golf course is in really good condition, greens are putting perfectly. You've got the best players in the world here; someone is going to fire a good number. But if those greens get firmer, I think the scores are going to go the other way very quickly.   
  
  Q. You said yesterday that Congressional maybe set up a little bit better for your game. How do you feel now seeing yourself out there? How do you feel like this sets up for your game?  
 JIM FURYK: I like the golf course. I just said that I'm cautious. I hadn't seen it yet in a golf tournament, and I've had a lot of good finishes at Congressional, so I have a lot of confidence to build on there. I'm kind of waiting to see how the week goes. I like the golf course. I'm comfortable here. It's good to be back in this neck of the woods, and I do like it. But you're also comparing it against a course that's very good, as well, one that I've played very well at for three or four different tournaments. It takes time to build a love for a golf course, I think.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT