THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 4, 2010
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Congrats.   
 JIM FURYK: Thank you.   
  
  Q. Good day for you.   
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, it was.   
  
  Q. Talk a little about the round. Got on a roll, and you're certainly in contention now.   
 JIM FURYK: It was kind of -- you know, it seemed like it was somewhat breezy, and then before the storms would pick up, it would get real breezy, and we'd get called off the golf course.   
 We'd come back out, and it would be nice and calm for a while, and the wind would just build and build and build. As it got real breezy again, we got called off the course again.   
 So it's strange to -- that second time we sat for a long time. I'm glad they didn't pull us in because I wanted to get my round finished, but it's awkward. I don't think I've ever sat for that long in holding before and not going back out to warm up first.   
 So it's just part of the day. Sounds like we're going to go through the same thing tomorrow. It's officially the Memorial.   
  
  Q. Speaking of odd, you're that close to leading, don't get to sleep in. You guys are going threesomes?   
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, that's not that unusual. If we have a bad weather report, we always try to go early and give ourselves the most amount of daylight and the best possibility to get the most golf in. So it's not that awkward. It happens quite a bit.   
  
  Q. Does that help you? Because you've been through it. Supposed to be delays tomorrow. Kind of mentally dealing with it.   
 JIM FURYK: I think everyone in the tournament has been through something. Yesterday the guys -- we had it once yesterday. I'm sure the guys in the afternoon had it at least once. It is what it is.   
 Everyone's going to have to go through it tomorrow. So just try to be patient and not let it bother you.   
  
  Q. You think the pressure mounts for Rickie tomorrow now that he's -- he's torn it up the first two days.   
 JIM FURYK: Well, I don't know if it -- not any more than anyone else. Looks like he's going to have a three-shot lead. He's a good young player. He'll dictate the rest of the tournament or at least for tomorrow.   
 If he goes out and plays well, it will be tough to catch him. If he goes and shoots another 6 or 7 under, he's going to have a huge lead. If he doesn't, he'll let some other guys back in the tournament.   
  
  Q. Surprised at all for him being a first-timer? He was playing the Nationwide last year.   
 JIM FURYK: No. He had a good finish to last year. I think he went through Tour school. Is that correct? Is that how he got his Tour? Or did he earn enough money? So Tour school.   
 He played real well last year on the PGA Tour, made a bunch of money, went through Tour school, and he's been ripping it up this year and already had some chances to win. I'm not surprised at all that he's playing well.   
  
  Q. Jim, did you feel like you left any shots out there or got most out of your round?   
 JIM FURYK: Yesterday I felt like I got the most out of my round.   
 Today I missed a little -- not a little, but I missed a six or seven footer on 18 and had my chance to make more birdies, missed a ten-footer on 16. But I also feel like I got the ball up and down in a couple of key spots and hit a couple of wayward shots that ended up all right for me.   
 You know, I played a good solid round of golf. I've got myself in good position. You know, I want to -- I'm going to go hit a few balls here after I get done and work on my swing a little bit and try to tighten things up a little bit with my ball striking.   
  
  Q. Jim, Jack's done everything possible to try to make this course as weatherproof as possible with the drainage and everything. How's it holding up right now? They're saying we could get a bunch of rain maybe overnight.   
 JIM FURYK: It's still pretty saturated right now. It drains a lot better than it used to. But it's wet out there.   
 The reason the scores are so good is the greens are quick, but they're very receptive. The fairways are somewhat generous here, but when they're real soft, it makes it -- the ball's not going to want to run through the fairways.   
 So length isn't an issue. The golf course plays longer, but everyone out here hits it pretty far enough. So the scores are there because of the softness in the greens and the fair ways. There's not much you can do about it.   
  
  Q. I think five out of the last six years, your score would have been sitting here with a 36-hole lead instead of being a couple shots back.   
 JIM FURYK: That's the weather. That's the weather. Any time you get soft greens -- you know, like I said, they're quick, but they're very good. They're some of the best greens we play year in and year out. So they roll real well.   
 But any time you can let guys get aggressive with their iron shots and the greens are receptive and holding, someone's going to find a way to shoot a low number.   
 You look at Sunday last year. They got a little firmer, started turning brown, and they were icy quick, and the scores weren't so good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT