ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 27, 2010
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Was it a nice, relaxing atmosphere that gave you a good opportunity to make a score?
 JIM FURYK: It was nice. We had a onesome in front of us; so he was gone, Martin Laird. It was smooth sailing. 
 We played very quickly today and I got off to a fast start. I think it was pretty calm and smooth sailing early, but once I got it 5- or 6-under, you know, things tightened up a little bit more and I got a little more serious.

 Q. You said that last week when you won, that you do make things hard for yourself, I think, thought you were being too hard on yourself; is that the case?
 JIM FURYK: Probably. I think most of us out here are pretty hard on ourselves. That's what gets us out to the practice tee and keeps us working. Yeah, I could be criticized for being too hard on myself, that's for sure.

 Q. You certainly made your score in a seven-hole period this morning; is that an indication that the wind began to get up after that?
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, this morning, conditions were pretty benign. There was a light breeze. The greens had moisture in them and were holding and receptive and not quite as quick. Things started to dry out and the wind picked up. 
 I thought some of the pin placements on the back nine were quite tricky. There were some very difficult pin placements. The back nine is probably going to play a little tougher today anyway but the wind picked up for us, the greens started getting a little firmer and a little faster, and it was a little bit more difficult.

 Q. So factoring all of that in, you're in a great position, though, aren't you?
 JIM FURYK: I am. It's going to depend on what the weather does and how the leaders play today. I got it to 5-under. I would like it to be more but right now, two back, depends on if they go out and shoot -- if a whole bunch of guys shoot 4-under and get it to 11, it will be difficult. But if the wind picks up, a couple under par is a good score. 

 Q. With all of the major champions on the leaderboard, is that a sign of the times and where we are in the season?
 JIM FURYK: I don't know, I think everything goes through an ebb and flow. We had some young guys that won early, and that was the big story that the young guys were going to take over. And now you have Ernie and I winning the last couple of weeks and now all of a sudden the old guys are doing good. I think it's a little bit of both. 
 There's good players around the world at all ages and they are just, you know, going to go back and forth. I don't think the old guys are done yet, put it that way. Kenny Perry is still playing well approaching 50 here. So we are just getting to 40. 

 Q. Well played out there. How did things go today? Obviously well. 
 JIM FURYK: Very well. Jumped off to a quick start. Had one kind of spin out for birdie on me on 3 and I was chuckling about it, but then I went birdie, birdie, birdie eagle on 45 and 6, jumped started the round and birdie on 10 at a tough hole and I was off to the races. 
 I made a bogey at 11 and didn't get up-and-down on 12 for an easy birdie and kind of slowed my momentum for a while, and I hit a period of tough holes or made a bunch of pars; and was able to birdie 16 on the way in and made a good save on 18. 
 Overall, it was a good day. All depends on what happens this afternoon and how the weather is and see how close I'll be at the end of the day.

 Q. What was the difference between the first two days and today? 
 JIM FURYK: You know, I'm not sure. I felt like I played very solid the first day, and yesterday I just could never get anything going. Hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in. I thought it was playing tougher in the afternoon. The golf course, when I got it going this morning, was definitely more benign. There was no wind out here. 
 There's a lot of moisture on the greens. There was like a low fog on the range this morning and we couldn't see our balls land and I think that held a lot of moisture in the ground and the greens are a lot more receptive. We could be a lot more aggressive. I felt the front nine pins were a lot more accessible than the back nine.

 Q. Last week you get your first win in a few years, I know you've been working really hard on it. What does that mean to you as you reflect on that?
 JIM FURYK: It's had time to sink in, and I'm just happy. I think that I was putting a lot of pressure on myself and I realized it. By the end of last year, I realized I was putting a lot of pressure on myself. But still, it's like when you go out and putt, you know you have to make a bunch of putts to play a good round, but if you just dwell on it, it's tough to knock putts in. 
 I think I freed myself up and just went out there and played and just go see what happens and play. I was struggling to do that, and I think my attitude changed the last few weeks. And after I left the West Coast, I had a couple of weeks off and I think I reflected on I had attitude out there and I tried to come out just really letting things happen and have a better attitude about it. I did that at Doral and it didn't work, but turned around at Tampa and patience paid off. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT