TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2010
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 4-under 67, with a lot of up-and-down saves as you made the turn.   
 JIM FURYK: I hit a few bad shots. I turned a drive on 7. Kind of got in behind some trees and made a really good up-and-down from about 50 yards.   
 Then hit the worst shot of the day on 8. I hit it about 20 yards right of the green and was able to get it up-and-down. Hit two pretty good shots at 9 but hit the lip and came back in.   
 It was a tough day to score. Conditions were tough. Wind was blowing out there. I got off to a great start; so really hitting a few loose shots and getting the ball up-and-down, it calms you. You realize, hey, I can miss a shot here, I can still got the ball up-and-down, making a few putts and hitting some good wedges. So I think that helps your long game, as well.  
  
  Q. At 14, you had about seven and a half feet, couldn't make that one, but did make the birdie putt on the next hole.   
 JIM FURYK: I didn't hit a very solid putt on 14. I think I got caught up in the line a little bit and I just didn't hit it. I kind of quit on it and it missed on the low side, but got to redeem myself and got to make one on the very next hole.  
  
  Q. What do you take out of a day like today where you have a couple birdies early, a couple late and maybe have to battle for those saves?   
 JIM FURYK: It was just a tough scoring day. You know, I had a real easy up-and-down on 1 for birdie, and didn't make it and was a little kind of kicking myself, because I knew it was going to be a tough day.   
 Then I went on a tear there and birdied some really hard holes on 3 and 4, and I was able to hit a wedge close at 5. It was nice to get off to a good start, and as I said, it was a little bit of a rude awakening out there. The greens are quite quick. These greens have a lot of undulation, a lot of slope on them and it's tough to get a lot of birdie putts. When the wind is blowing like this, it's just a tough day to score.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT