CHEVRON WORLD CHALLENGE
December 5, 2009
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Started the day at 3-under. Finished the day. Talk about your round today. 
 JIM FURYK: You know, I hit the ball very, very well. I think I probably hit 17 greens out there. 
 I gave myself a lot of opportunities. What's been bothering me all week is I putted very poorly, and today I won't say that I putted well, but I putted better. I gave myself a lot of short birdie putts, and I was able to knock a few of them in. 
 I'm anxious, you know. I'll probably be within two or three shots of the lead and maybe have a chance to get out there tomorrow and win the golf tournament, but I need to knock some putts in and probably get a little more comfortable with my putting between now and then.

 Q. 7-under on the par-5s this week. Why have you been able to have such success?
 JIM FURYK: I had success the first day, did all right yesterday. Today I only played them 1-under. That's the glaring, but there's 15 of them. So I feel like I played 15 par-5s through three days only 7-under par. Actually I would expect the guys that are playing well are probably 10-under on those holes. I was playing them well. I had a few slip-ups. I bogeyed 16 today, but I think really it's been good wedge shots. 
 I've had -- you know, No. 2, No. 16, I've had a couple of opportunities where I've got there in two and made some birdies, but I think it's been hitting some really good wedge shots and setting myself up with short birdie putts. 

 Q. You had four birdies, 10, 11, 12 and 15. You gave one back on 16, but how were you able to get out to that quick start there on the Back 9?
 JIM FURYK: Just again, wedged a four feet on 10, wedged a four feet on 11, and I hit a good 6-iron in there about 12 feet on 12, so really good wedge shots setting myself up, and the front nine's kind of got me all week. I'm only 1-under on the front. I'm seven on the back. I'm not sure why that is, but there are three par-5s on the back, so you have a good opportunity there to maybe get healthy.

 Q. I understand you're two back. Actually might be three now, but going into the final round tomorrow, feel pretty good about your chances?
 JIM FURYK: I feel all right. If I can get comfortable here with my putting and feel a little bit better about that, I like the way I'm hitting the ball. 
 I haven't played in a long time. Six weeks off, a little rusty, but I'm comfortable out there. I felt good and it was nice to get back in contention today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT