THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2009
Jim Furyk
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You both played marvelously today, now you have a break before you go out. What do you have to do mentally to adjust to the new format this afternoon?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Not a whole lot. We have been on enough teams to get used to that. It's just about putting our feet up and watching these matches coming in and having something to eat. I think it's easier going from alternate shot to best-ball versus the other way around.   
  
  Q. Jim, you have a new partner this afternoon, Anthony Kim, different style of play and different personality --  
 JIM FURYK: Really?   
  
  Q. Is that an adjustment at all for you?   
 JIM FURYK: (Laughing) No, not at all. I think it fits the format real well. I love playing with Justin. I think we make a good foursome team. We are going to split up in the afternoon. We hit the ball so much alike I think in fourball, I think you need someone who plays totally different. Anthony and I are two different people who get along great.   
  
  Q. That was some ridiculous ball-striking out there. You missed one fairway, one green, you never, ever came close to making a bogey. That had to be a lot of fun.   
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It was a lot of fun. We played more like we were supposed to today versus yesterday. But you know, we just wore them down, and that was our game plan to put the ball in play, keep giving ourselves putts at it. And Jim was able to make a few and that made the difference. But really just wear them down.   
  
  Q. Now you're going out this afternoon with Anthony Kim. Did you have a little talk with him after the round yesterday?   
 JIM FURYK: No, Anthony is all right. He struggled yesterday. He was a little down on himself, but he's really got a lot of confidence and I expect he's going to go out there today and make a bunch of birdies. You'll see a new guy today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT