RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2018
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 3-under today, nice start.  If we can get some comments on your play.
JIM FURYK: Yeah, I felt like this morning, not a lot of breeze.  The golf course is still somewhat receptive on the greens.  Fairways are starting to roll a little bit.  I mean, it was out there for the scoring.  There's a 9-under on the board, a bunch of guys at 6-under, 5-under.
I played a good, solid round of golf.  I hit a lot of good golf shots.  I needed to make more putts.  Really for the first 11 holes or so, I putted pretty poorly and hit a few edges and didn't have much go in and was able to kind of turn that around.  I birdied four of the last seven, I think.  Saw a couple putts go in, but everything was relatively short today.  I hit a lot of good putts but didn't see much go in, and that was the difference for me.
Q. You've played here a ton of times.  How would you compare the course this year compared to last years and just the conditions?
JIM FURYK: I think it's always been in pretty good shape.  It's a different golf course than we saw the last two years.  I think there was probably a lack of rain, probably a little bit of a drought the last few years.  The golf course was crispy, it was browned out, it was firm and fast.  I thought it played great the last couple years.  Obviously with the rain leading up to here, it's a much greener golf course.  The ball is not traveling quite as far off the tee.  I think scoring is going to be a touch better if the golf course doesn't firm up, if we keep getting some little sprinkles of rain and overcast skies that'll hold the moisture, I think we'll see some good scoring.
Q. I believe August 12th is the cut-off date for you guys to decide on the Ryder Cup team; is that right?
JIM FURYK: No, August 8th -- August 12th -- I don't know what day it is, but the PGA Championship is the final tournament for our eight qualifiers to gain points, so the top eight on the points list after the PGA automatically make the team, but then we wait to make three selections on September 4th and one selection on September 10th for the captain's picks.
Q. What's your thought process right now after having gone over and played the course in France?
JIM FURYK: Yeah, I mean, really my thought process hasn't changed.  I think I've learned more about the golf course.  I played there last summer, had a good idea of the golf course, but it was good for me to get out there and play.  I played two rounds, I watched the guys play a round, and I also got to see six of us go around the golf course, so I got to see how Bubba Watson or Tony Finau, a bomber, would play the golf course.  I got to see Kevin Kisner, Brian Harman, guys that play more like I do as far as a control guy, how they play the golf course.
It really boils down to it's a good second-shot golf course.  It's going to be -- guys are going to lay up off the tee quite often.  It's going to be about getting the ball in the fairway, but then you're going to have some short irons.  You're going to have a lot of wedges to 7-irons, and I think the guys that can attack from those distances and knock some putts in, that's going to be a key.
My thought process on the team really hasn't changed.  I really need to see what we have with our top eight, who exactly those are going to be.  Six of those guys are probably mathematically locked and probably can't fall out of the points.  But we'll see where we stand.  We'll kind of evaluate where we're at from pairings, what we have on our team, and then we'll try to -- the guys we're adding in, we want the best players.  We want the guys that are in pretty good form right now.  I'll try to match them up to the golf course and see if their games are -- work well with the golf course.  Also what do we have pairings-wise, who fits in for good pairings, what do we need on the team.  What are we lacking.  I'm very comfortable with my team.  I'm not sure we'll be lacking that much.  But we'll look at what we have on the team and try to fill in some holes and gaps and round it out the best we can.
In the past our captains have really relied on the top eight players for their opinion.  They've relied on the vice captains for their opinion, and I expect to do that again.  I'll collectively ask everyone and try to make the best decision I can from there.
Q. Is Tiger any more or less on the radar after Carnoustie?
JIM FURYK: Well, it definitely helps.  It's nice to see how well he's playing.  Any time someone plays well at a major championship, he had the lead on the back nine, grounded out, gutted it out, putter looked good.  Yeah, it's hard to say Tiger Woods was never on the radar, but it's nice to see him play well.  I mean, it's a feather in our hat and a bonus, and now I'm excited he gets an extra start.  He's going to play at the World Golf Championship next week in Akron and the PGA.  So we have a couple more events to watch the best players and see where they fall out and then we'll have two or three more events with captain's picks.  Kind of exciting times, and I'm looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT