THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2009
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JIM FURYK: I was real pleased with the round, and out there shooting 70 on this golf course today, I felt like I played a real good round. Anyone under par leaped up the leaderboard today. So even par is going to get me closer to the lead, less people in between me and the lead, and give me an opportunity to wake up tomorrow with a chance to win The Open. So I'm excited about the round.   
 I did a good job of putting the ball in the fairway. I did a good job of making some good saves and some good putts. I putted real well from eight feet and in today. I kept my round going at quite a few key moments, and that's what you've got to do.   
 Last year, I was just reminded on Saturday on the back nine, I played a very poor nine holes, I kind of knocked myself out of the Open. So I really wanted to focus on the way in today and get it in the house with a pretty good score.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 JIM FURYK: It's very narrow. It really is. Today with the wind direction there was a lot of crosswinds off tee shots, and the fairways are very narrow here, and the rough is quite thick off the fairways. So it's difficult to keep the ball in the fairway, and when you don't, there's a lot of times you don't have much of a shot.   
 And I think it's a great golf course to start with and a great challenge, but the setup of it with the high rough just off the fairways is really punishing.  
  
  Q. Did you have to play defensive golf most of the round?   
 JIM FURYK: Well, I think you have to pick and choose. With every hole, each day with the wind direction, there aren't a lot of places and pin placements out there where I don't think you can be that aggressive. And the way the bunkering is set up, the way the rough is set up, it's kind of pushing everyone to hit the ball in a very similar position off the tee. It's difficult to get it there, but length is no issue, and it's kind of pushing everyone to hit the ball in the same place off the tee and play from the same spot.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 JIM FURYK: It's going to depend on the conditions. I saw somewhere this morning where the wind is supposed to blow harder tomorrow, so if that's the case even par would be a very good score.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 JIM FURYK: I think it's always a feather in your cap. It's nice to have that there, memories to lean back on, but it's going to be a bunched-up leaderboard.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 JIM FURYK: It's always nice to have. But it's maybe an advantage when you're head-to-head with one person, if you have that experience and he doesn't. It's definitely an advantage. It doesn't mean you're going to win. But when there's so many guys bunched up at the top of the leaderboard, I'm not sure it really matters that much.  
  
  Q. How would you compare the wind today with yesterday?   
 JIM FURYK: The wind blew probably a similar pace, but from a little bit different direction. I felt it was probably a little bit more consistent today. Yesterday I had -- it was warm, it got cold, it rained for a little while. The wind blew harder, it kind of laid down a little bit, kind of went back and forth. Today was more consistent.  
  
  Q. Is this your best chance of winning the Open?   
 JIM FURYK: Is this my best chance? I've had some great opportunities to win. In fact, I was probably tied for the lead in '98 at Birkdale with about four holes to go, so...   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 JIM FURYK: We'll see tomorrow, how's that? Whether it's my best or not, it's an opportunity, and you always look forward to an opportunity.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT