AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2009
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Was the course playing similar today?
 JIM FURYK: Relatively similar. The greens might have been a touch firmer today than they were yesterday, but still pretty soft, still had to be mindful of your wedges, just trying to hit some half shots and making sure the ball is not spinning back. But it's started to firm up a little bit. But not too much different to be honest with you.

 Q. Pretty happy with your round today? 
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, I got off to a slow start today. I bogeyed the first hole and I hit a lot of good iron shots on the front. I had a lot of opportunities for birdie and wasn't able to make the putts, so I was actually kind of frustrated. I hit it in there close on 9, got a putt to go in, and then birdied, I think, three of the next five holes after that. So I kind of opened the hole up a little bit after knocking one birdie in. They seemed to come a little bit easier, and I played a real solid back nine, so happy with the round.

 Q. Can you go over that putt at 9? It looked like it was a tricky one. And then at 14, can you go through that?
 JIM FURYK: I had about a four-footer for birdie at 9 but I was probably playing it at least a cup out of the hole. You get that a lot out here at Congressional where you can hit a lot of iron shots 10 or 15 feet, but with those putts you're playing two feet of break. It makes it real difficult. You really have to work on matching up your speed and the line. My speed was off a little bit today where I hit a lot of putts that weren't quite hard enough, missed them below the hole because of that and just didn't match things up very well. 
 Yesterday was the opposite. Yesterday I putted great and had a really good feel for the speed and made a bunch of putts.

 Q. And 14, would you go through that?
 JIM FURYK: I put myself in a spot where you're just trying to get the ball up-and-down, and if I would have got that pitch shot within six feet of the hole, it would have been a great shot. It ended up, it was probably going to go -- at the speed it was going, it was probably still going a little bit more than six feet by, but the hole got in the way, and instead of having a tough putt for par, I ended up making 3. It was actually a great surprise and probably made up for some of those putts I missed on the front nine.

 Q. Did you hit a wedge out of there?
 JIM FURYK: I hit my sand wedge.

 Q. As Tiger's competitor do you not like to hear about his stats?
 JIM FURYK: There's nothing wrong with stats. It's just reiterating what he's done and telling the truth. We all know he's tough to get the lead from when he gets out front, and he's playing real well right now, so we've all got our hands full. We've got a guy to chase. 

 Q. Coming up 18 there was so many fans cheering out your name --
 JIM FURYK: We had a ton of people. AK actually draws a pretty good crowd, and we had a ton of people following our group all day. With Anthony having the first-day lead, we had a huge group going right off the first tee, and they stuck with us most of the day. Made it a lot of fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT