THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 6, 2009
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Been in this position before in the hunt here. Just talk about what Sunday will be like and what you thought of today's round.   
 JIM FURYK: Well, I'm not sure the weather forecast for tomorrow. I know there was the one time there was a 30% chance of thunderstorms. The last I heard, that went away. Hopefully, we get a good day of weather.   
 The course was -- the wind laid down for a lot of the day, and it made the golf course a little more scorable, I thought, than yesterday afternoon. I made a couple of mental errors. I three-putted number 3 today. Bad club at 6, where I knocked it through the green. Can't do it on that hole. Tough up and down. Made a couple of careless bogeys.   
 Overall, I felt in control of my golf swing. Felt like I struck the ball more solidly than I've been hitting it. I didn't score as well, didn't get as much out of it. Made a few careless mistakes, didn't see as many putts falling today. Felt pretty comfortable.   
 One of those days I just hung around and kept plugging away. Made a couple birdies on the back nine and really kept myself in contention basically.   
  
  Q. Do you feel confident because, I don't know, Matthew Bettencourt and Mark maybe not the biggest names out there. Big spotlight for them tomorrow.   
 JIM FURYK: You don't worry ever about it. They got in that position for a reason because they're good players and they played well. Whole field will be chasing them. I envy that position. I wanted to be in the lead. I'd rather be out front and having everyone chasing me. But I'm in the other position. But I'm close, one shot back.   
 Today was the day where the leaders really didn't pull away from the field. Everyone kind of crowded up. We had an opportunity to go out there and fire a good round and maybe get some separation, and we didn't do it. Now we shoot up front.   
  
  Q. [ Inaudible ]   
 JIM FURYK: You know, I think it's going to depend on the setup tomorrow. We'll all get an idea on what the weather is doing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT