THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2009
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jim Furyk, score of 67, 12 of 14 fairways, 15 of 18 greens, 27 putts. Solid round today?   
 JIM FURYK: I did pretty well. Pretty good job keeping the ball on the fairway and out of trouble. I was knocking the putts. I feel like I got a lot out of my round today and scored pretty well.   
  
  Q. Do you like playing at this golf course?   
 JIM FURYK: I've played well here in the past. I won back in '02. I've got a lot of good memories. It was fun playing in Jack's event. My wife is here in town. Spend a lot of time with family and friends.   
 And having a good history playing here. Decided to come back.   
  
  Q. Did the moisture from yesterday affect the course at all? Little easier to go after the hole location?   
 JIM FURYK: Greens were quite soft this morning. I think you can be aggressive. It was also cold this morning. I had this and another sweater on top, and I was cold for the first five or six holes. I started to peel layers off later. It didn't get nice or warmish until the middle of our back side.   
  
  Q. Feels a little like Pittsburgh Steelers season?   
 JIM FURYK: I'm ready for it there. I don't have to swing a club.   
  
  Q. Good luck the rest of the week.   
  
  Q. Nice round out there today.   
 JIM FURYK: Thank you.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about it. Pretty receptive?   
 JIM FURYK: The golf course, the greens are very quick. They were perfect this morning. They weren't beat up at all. But they are receptive. I think you're seeing some good scoring because guys can get a little bit aggressive with their irons.   
  
  Q. You like this tournament. You've won here. Brings back good memories, right?   
 JIM FURYK: Yeah. I was struggling with my ball strike in the last week or so? Kind of scraping around. Today was a little bit more solid. I hit some good golf shots. Kept the ball on the fairway a lot.   
 Still maybe not as crisp as I would like, but I did a good job scoring. Kept the ball in front of me and out of trouble. I scored well, and I got a lot out of my round.   
  
  Q. Jim, could you talk a little bit about the gesture you made to Ohio State, starting that program.   
 JIM FURYK: Well, it's more -- it has a lot to do with PGA of America and the Ryder Cup. What happens is usually you get a couple hundred thousand dollars, $100,000 go to charity of our choice for each player. And the second $100,000 this year was $90,000. Could go to the university of our choice for a PGA program to be started.   
 The Ryder Cup has always been a very team, family-oriented event as long as I've been there, and our wives are a big part of it. So we split that money with the universities where I went to school at Arizona, half and half, and where my wife went to school at Ohio State.   
 They were very thankful. We had a little photography session yesterday to remember it. But it's just a great event, and rarely someone hands you $200,000 that 100 of it can go anywhere you want, you can do a lot of good for your community and for charities.   
  
  Q. And you did it for your wife because she's a Buckeye?   
 JIM FURYK: It had to go to two universities. Yeah, like I said. They were there to support us, so we decided to split it between the two universities we went to.   
  
  Q. Little bit of rain yesterday. Guys were saying the fairway is pretty soft, but the greens are still quite fast?   
 JIM FURYK: Greens are fast. Greens are fast. At least I thought they were. Coming off last week, greens are much slower than usual at Colonial, so it's a bit of an adjustment. They're quite a bit quicker than last week. As deceptive as they were, they were very, very quick.   
  
  Q. Wind is picking up. You can only imagine this place is going to get a little tougher.   
 JIM FURYK: Yeah. This morning it was pretty chilly and calm. It was cold, but there wasn't much wind. It's definitely picked up a little bit. It's not terrible out there.   
 I think, if the wind keeps blowing and you get a little sun in this place and dry it up a little bit, once it firms up, it will be even better.   
  
  Q. Good start. Just your mindset for tomorrow?   
 JIM FURYK: Trying to work on my game a little bit, get crisp. I have a few things I want to work on, ball striking and stuff. Just a quick session and try to relax.   
  
  Q. Best part of your game today?   
 JIM FURYK: Probably my putting. I was able to knock in some putts, mostly birdie putts.   
 I'm trying to think. I made seven birdies out there today. It wasn't like I hit it three feet a lot. I hit the ball fine, but able to knock in some good putts, good curlers.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT