THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2009
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: Jim, 4-under par 68. Nice start to the tournament. If we can just get some comments on your day and then we'll open it up to questions.   
 JIM FURYK: You know, I'm happy with the start. Conditions got a little tougher this afternoon with the wind, got a little breezy, but I got off to a fast start birdieing four holes on the back side, my first side, shooting 32. It was nice to get off to a good start. I was a little shaky there early on the front nine. I just didn't really score and get the ball in the hole as well as I could have, but I was able to birdie a couple holes coming home and got off to a good start.   
  
  Q. When was the last time you had a 32 around either nine?   
 JIM FURYK: I don't remember. I don't play enough around here to remember. But I've done it here on the back nine, and I've done it here before in this tournament.   
 The back nine can be a lot of feast or famine. There's a lot of trouble but also a lot of risk-reward and a lot of opportunities, and today I was able to take advantage of those opportunities.  
  
  Q. What was the best part of your game today?  
 JIM FURYK: I really think just being pretty consistent. I hit the ball pretty straight today, kept it in play, hit a lot of fairways. I kind of kept the ball out of trouble today. I think that was the best part of the day today.  
  
  Q. You had six birdies. Which was the best one in your mind?   
 JIM FURYK: I played well on 18. 18 is a tough birdie. Making birdie there -- I had three par-5s I made birdie on, and 6 and 18 and 12, so a couple short par-4s. 18 is a tough hole, a good birdie.  
  
  Q. What happened with the bogeys?   
 JIM FURYK: One was a three-putt on No. 5 where I actually hit two pretty good putts. The first one was pretty long from about 40 or 50 feet, and I hit it right where I wanted to. I hit it hole high and missed it about three and a half feet left. I really thought it would break more. If I were to play that putt again, I would still think it should have broke more from past memory. Then I hit a good second putt that lipped out, so not much you can do there. That was 5.  
 The other one was 1, where I hit a good drive but got a little aggressive with an iron and just pulled it a little bit, hit the bank, kicked down in the bunker where I had a tough shot. I didn't get the bunker shot on the green, and I hit a pretty good shot, so I just put the ball in a bad position.   
  
  Q. Tabitha says your daughter (inaudible).   
 JIM FURYK: She got in the essay contest for Gary Smits, so I'll have to show her the pressroom this week.   
  
  Q. Is it unusual playing with those two guys, given their last month? Kenny said it was kind of a hard day for him. Did you get a sense of that?  
 JIM FURYK: A hard day because of the pairing or a hard day --  
  
  Q. Because of the pairing.   
 JIM FURYK: I didn't get a sense of that, but I know Kenny really well, and he didn't play poorly today, it just wouldn't go in the hole for him. He hit a lot of good putts, especially on that second shot. He could have shot well under par and just couldn't get the ball to go in.   
 And Angel was birdies and bogeys and eagles and triples, and he made -- it seems like he made about four pars all day, and it all added up to even par. I didn't notice any tension or anything like that. Obviously it was probably a little tougher for Kenny considering the outcome of the tournament.  
  
  Q. You're a guy everybody loves to play with. Do you get that sense, too, that you're kind of friendly to everybody?   
 JIM FURYK: Well, I get along with a lot of people. Kenny and I have played in a lot of -- we played in the last Ryder Cup matches together and have played matches like that. He's as friendly as they get. If you don't like Kenny, it's your fault, really.   
 You know, Angel doesn't say a whole heck of a lot, but I tend to get on with a lot of people. Not everyone. There's a few people I don't like, but I tend to get on with most of them.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT