THE RYDER CUP
September 18, 2008
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You're obviously playing with the home boy, if you will, tomorrow, in the anchor match, if you will?
 JIM FURYK: I'm excited. Kenny has had a heck of a year and he's an extremely friendly guy and he's an easy guy to team up with and be a partner with. We have a really tough team with a great Ryder Cup record to play tomorrow. 
 Kenny is in a very unique situation being from Kentucky, not too far away from here. The fans have been so supportive this week of him and what he's trying to accomplish. 
 It's going to be a fun ride. It's going to be a lot of fun to be a part of and feel all of the excitement out there and we are going to try to go out and obviously give them a lot to cheer about.

 Q. I guess when you knew who was on the team, had you thought it would be fun to play with Kenny, because the matches are in Kentucky? 
 JIM FURYK: You know, I had not thought that much about it, or who -- at that point, we were not really thinking pairings yet. Then we started thinking about pairings, and yeah, I mean, I kind of realized at that point what stage we were on and all of the excitement, all of the attention. 
 I remember the PGA Championships here and how excited the crowd was then and kind of had a picture in my mind of what it would be like here. If we played well and performed well and gave them something to be excited about, this place would go bananas, as any place would, but Louisville has always been a little bit golf-starved. 
 So the level of support here at the PGA Championship has always been massive. You know, every Ryder Cup is massive, but I think this city could take it to the next level as well.

 Q. And the fact that you're playing against the European's anchor team, the challenge you guys face playing one of the best Ryder Cup players, in Sergio, of all time. 
 JIM FURYK: Obviously he's got a good record. He's seemed to bring his best to The Ryder Cups. You know, we just have to go out tomorrow and play the best we can. 
 There's really nothing I can do about worrying about them or who I'm playing. You always want to go out and play the best to beat the best, so I'm excited about the task at hand, and Kenny and I are going to have a heck of a time and have a lot of fun. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT