BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2008
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JIM FURYK: If anything I was a little upset with the way I putted last weekend. I played well all week but putted not to well on Saturday, very poorly on Sunday, and I kind of hurt myself as far as giving myself an opportunity.   
 Yesterday again I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in yesterday, and today I had some go in, so a nice low score.   
  
  Q. Did the play course as you'd expect?   
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, we got so much rain on Thursday that the golf course was already relatively soft when we got here, and it's probably got no chance to firm up before we leave. The greens here are very severe, they're very difficult, but because they're soft and we can stop the ball, we're able to shoot some decent scores.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 JIM FURYK: You know, it was just basically -- I don't know. I know the last nine is going to be a struggle. The turf here is very wet. It's a little like walking up sand. We're going to tire out a little bit. I think it's really try to keep your mental -- really mentally stay with the last nine holes so when you get tired you can keep going.   
  
  Q. 8-under 62, low round, great playing today. You've got to be happy about it. Talk about the afternoon round going in.   
 JIM FURYK: I am. I finished strong. Hopefully I can get that momentum going into the next round. It's a little bit of a marathon today. We're going to play a lot of golf. The ground is wet. It's like walking on sand out there, and guys are going to get tired out. So I'll try to save and conserve some energy and basically go out there and I'll really try to stay focused towards the end of the day when I get tired.   
  
  Q. And the good thing is when you do play a good round, you get to play more golf; that's usually fun for a pro?  
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, I'm looking forward to going back out there. I felt good about my game yesterday. I didn't score well, didn't get the ball in the hole real well shooting even par, but it turned around quickly. It seemed like they came in bunches. Yesterday I knocked a lot of putts in, I hit a lot of good ones; today I finished up birdieing the last five, knocking in five 10- to 15-footers. They kind of came in bunches when they did, and you just had to stay patient.   
  
  Q. Did you see a 62 coming?  
 JIM FURYK: I don't know about that. I mean, through 10 I probably didn't see a 62 coming, and then you hole out a wedge and a whole bunch of putts go in. I was real happy about the way I hit it. I started getting it going on that second side and just kept knocking it down the middle of the fairway and hitting it to about ten feet and giving myself a chance.  
  
  Q. As we look to the afternoon, was the second half of your round on the golf course a lot drier? Do we expect the golf course to get much firmer as we go to the afternoon?  
 JIM FURYK: No. I don't know about much firmer. We're still stopping the ball out there. If you have short irons or wedges you're worried about spinning the ball back at times. I see the conditions in the fairway getting a little better, and I picked up a little mud early and actually had to hit a shot out of casual water early on because my only drop was in the rough. So I think that'll kind of clear up, and I think our footing and the lies in the fairways are going to be much better.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT