DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2008
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 2-under par 69 today, but it seemed like your round revealed itself rather late. You were 1-under par until fairly late in the round. Were you pleased with the way it ended?  
 JIM FURYK: Absolutely. I birdied 15 and 17 hitting some good iron shots, and I actually hit a hybrid in there close to about 10 feet for eagle on the last hole. I hit a decent putt, under-read it a little bit. But I birdied three of the last four, a good high note. I have myself pretty far out of it now, so hopefully I can give myself a chance tomorrow with that finish.   
 I didn't play terrible. I didn't play bad really. I missed a couple short putts and really kind of stung; I missed a couple three-footers out there and it's tough to recover and made a couple mistakes.  
  
  Q. What's your mindset going into the final round?  
 JIM FURYK: Well, hopefully see what kind of day we get tomorrow. Today was obviously a great day to move. I thought it was a tough day to score, but then there were two 8-unders out there. I think it's supposed to calm down. Last I heard, it's supposed to calm down a little bit tomorrow, so I think it's going to be a shootout tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How did the course play today?  
 JIM FURYK: Much tougher golf course. That being said, there were still two guys that went out there and shot 63. But the wind definitely made it more difficult. I don't think it was consistent all day. It was tough to figure out the wind, and the greens started drying out. They were definitely much quicker. I don't know, it was a tougher day. You could still score, but no one sniffed a 59 today or anything like that.  
  
  Q. How do you like your position now?   
 JIM FURYK: There's still some stuff I'm working on, but I figure give me a few more weeks and I'll have it and it'll be time to take two months off. I've been working hard, and hopefully tomorrow I'll put a good number up there.   
  
  Q. Have you heard who the picks are?  
 JIM FURYK: I haven't, I haven't.  
  
  Q. Ian Poulter and Paul Casey.   
 JIM FURYK: I was told before I went out that they had heard that Darren might not get picked. But I did not hear that. From a personal perspective, Darren is a friend and I feel badly for him that he's not there. He's a great guy and a team member, but Ian and Paul are both good players and good match play players.  
  
  Q. How do you see it? Does Paul have some tough decisions to make over the next 24 hours or so?  
 JIM FURYK: It's tough on both captains. Nick has got his finish, has made his two picks, and now Paul -- I know he's going to be sleepless here for the next couple of nights until he makes those decisions. I think there's some great choices out there, and the bad news is you have to tell a couple guys, hey, sorry, I was thinking about it but decided to go another route. That's just got to be an awful call to make. But I guess on the other side you get to tell four guys they're on the team and listen to their excitement.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised by those picks?  
 JIM FURYK: I think everyone kind of felt like Darren was going to get the nod. All of his teammates and actually our guys respect him. He's a good friend of a bunch of guys over here. I know the guys on their team love him. He's great behind the scenes, a good team guy. So I think I'm a little surprised Darren wasn't a pick.   
 But then you've got Ian Poulter and Paul Casey. I know they're good match play players because they both whipped me, Paul in the last round of the last Cup and Ian beat me in the WGC event. I think they're two solid picks, but personally I feel bad because Darren is a friend of mine and I wanted to see him on that other team.   
  
  Q. Does it make it easier not having Darren Clarke to go against because he's been such a force against the U.S. Team?  
 JIM FURYK: I'm not going to say that. The Ryder Cup is never easy. Paul Casey and Ian Poulter are wonderful players. On any given day I think Darren is as good as anyone in the world. I think when everyone looked at it, the media, I think even the Europeans talked about it, everyone was talking that Darren is one, who is the second one going to be, and now he's picked both Ian and Paul. It is what it is. There's nothing we can do about it. We have a tough task ahead of us.  
  
  Q. Let me ask you about today, this tournament. Much, much different golf course today.   
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, a lot windier. The wind was relatively consistent, but with these trees you get a lot of protection and it's hard to figure out at times. The greens dried out, firmed up, and even got a little quicker today. So I think today played a lot tougher. But still, some guys went out and shot 63, 8-under. So it's out there, it's possible. But it definitely was a tougher golf course today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT