THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2008
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JIM FURYK: Well, I got off to a little bit of a rough start. I hit the ball very well early on but putted very poorly, and I missed a couple of short ones. I three-putted 1, missing a two-footer. I hit a bad drive at 2. But other than that, I played pretty solid. And I three-putted 5. Both were pretty simple putts, like a 20-footer and a 25-footer uphill. At 5, I left it about, I don't know, three feet maybe short and missed a three-footer.  
 And then you've got to turn around and play 6, so I'm 3-over through 5. I missed a couple short ones and I'm struggling with my putter a little bit. But I made a good up-and-down at 6, and the rest of the way in played -- good two-putt at 7 from probably 60, 70 feet, and for the rest of the way in played real solid and was able to make birdie at 14 and then 17 and managed to shoot 71.   
 It was a tough start and a tough day but I ground it out and hung in there, was patient, and birdied a couple on the way in.   
  
  Q. How did you get the weather? Were you in the rain?   
 JIM FURYK: I wasn't out there early, but I imagine it was very difficult and tough to tee off early this morning. So I probably managed to hit it pretty well.   
 You know, we had some spitting early but not real hard rains. Basically the wind was our factor, and it started to get -- it's getting cold now, but I was cold the last couple holes, but other than that I wouldn't say I got any good weather out there, but I probably got the best of it.   
  
  Q. It wasn't Hoylake.   
 JIM FURYK: No, I miss that, boy. I'll tell you what, 85 and sunny, I'll take it all day.  
  
  Q. Ten years ago they had bad weather here on Friday and Saturday. You were around?  
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, it's blowing a little different direction if I remember. I think it's probably similar to most of the week and maybe a little different than it was on Sunday. I remember Sunday it turned a little bit. But yeah, I like the golf course, I played well here in the past, and it's nice to be back.  
  
  Q. 1-over on a weather day like this and not --  
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, there's a couple guys that got it in at 1-under, and Adam has got a chance, and I don't know what's going to happen late, but obviously that gets me right in the thick of things. Considering the start, 3-over through 5, I feel -- sometimes you bogey the last couple, you shoot 1-over, you're disappointed.  
 Considering my start and how well I ground it out today and got it around the golf course, I'm really pleased with the score.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT