U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 10, 2008
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Full Audio Interview
  
RAND JERRIS: It's a pleasure to welcome Jim Furyk to the  
interview room this afternoon. He's playing in his 14th United  
States Championship here at Torrey Pines. He won in 2003 at  
Olympia Fields.
  
Start us off with general comments about the golf course, how it  
compares to what you see here at the Buick Invitational, what do you  
think the challenges are going to be out there this week? 
 JIM FURYK: Well, those of you who know me know I don't play the Buick Invitational. I don't have much of a comparison. That could be a positive or negative, I haven't figured that out yet. 

 I  
played this year and it was a big help. A lot of the fairway cut  
lines are the same. I don't really feel like when we played  
Pebble Beach at the AT&T and saw Pebble at the U.S. Open, it was a  
drastic change. This week with this golf course, although it is  
a change, it's not as drastic, and I think the cut lines and the  
fairways are the same where that was not the case at Pebble. And  
the greens are firmer, they're quicker. You have to respect the  
slope on them. There are some greens out there that have an  
amazing amount of undulation. 
  
But I'm glad I came those four rounds of tournament competition, or  
three rounds with the Pro Am, really made me a lot more  
comfortable. It's a difficult golf course, but I feel like I  
know what I'm supposed to do. 
  
RAND JERRIS: How are you feeling about your game as you're  
coming here this week? 
 JIM FURYK: I'm a little frustrated. I think that I haven't played poorly this year, but I haven't played well by any means. I struggled a little bit with -- this year I felt I struggled a little bit with the driver, which has been a strength of mine throughout the last five to eight years. I've struggled with the putter quite a bit, two of the most important clubs in the bag. So I think I've remedied part of the problems. I've been working hard. I've had some good, shining moments this year, but I've also had a lot of mediocrity and need to -- obviously I'm working hard to fix that and play better.
 
  
Q. Before you came here for the Buick you heard about length,  
length, length. Now that you've seen the Open setup what are  
your thoughts as far as what it will mean for say the medium-sized  
hitter?
 JIM FURYK: Well, I appreciate you putting me in that medium category, thanks. It's an upgrade from usual, so I like that.
 I  
would say there's no way to disguise 7600 yards. We have what  
I've been told is the June Gloom. It's overcast, it's dark, it  
holds the moisture on the golf course. It's playing much firmer  
and faster than I would expect by looking at the weather. I  
would expect it to hold more moisture. 
  
The greens picked up quite a bit of speed today. They were much  
firmer than they were yesterday. I think you catch a Bethpage  
where it's cold, it's wet, it's a long golf course, that played a lot  
longer, I believe, than coming here. If we can get a little  
roll, get the ball moving. It's definitely got its long holes  
and places where I'm going to be hitting a lot of club into the green,  
but I think it's playable, because of the firm and fast conditions. 
  
 From what I hear it's going to be possibly even a little warmer and  
sunnier, and I'm hoping for this place to dry up even more. The  
roll is our friend right now, if you're a medium-length hitter.
 
  
Q. Everyone knows Tiger and Phil are going to be playing  
together in the top pairings. I would imagine you would want to  
be in that, if only for rankings purposes, but are you happy to let  
the majority of the galleries go and fight their way out with those  
two and you not be in there? If you were just a fan and weren't  
a player, would you fight the galleries and go out and watch them?
  
JIM FURYK: What was the first part of that? I have a very  
simple mind.
 
  
Q. I assume you would want to be in the groupings because of the  
rankings. 
 JIM FURYK: I've never cared about the rankings, I said that when I was ranked No. 2, and I'm going to say that when I'm ranked between 7 or 9 now.
 
  
Q. Would you prefer playing with them Thursday and Friday or are  
you happy to let all the crowd go with them --
 JIM FURYK: I think it would be exciting to be out there. The rankings are cool in one sense in that it's nice to be ranked high. But ultimately we all realize it doesn't matter whether you're ranked 4 or 5 or 12. It really doesn't matter. It's somewhat of a reflection on how you're playing. I wish I was ranked higher because it means I'd been playing better. I think it's exciting for the fans when they have the top three players playing together.
 I  
think it's interesting that all 12 players are in the same wave from  
what I've heard. That probably raises the eyebrow I think more  
than putting the guys together, just because of the weather  
conditions, all 12 guys could get a great draw or a bad draw. I  
think splitting them up would be the usual. So it raises the  
eyebrow that they're all in the same wave. 
  
But there's a lot of other guys in the field, obviously, that have a  
great opportunity to win this golf tournament. It puts the focus  
on that elite group, yeah, gives the other guys a chance to, including  
myself, to hide under the radar for our first couple of days, which is  
hard to do at a U.S. Open. 
  
And not a chance in the world would I ever go out there and fight that  
gallery, not even for two holes. It just wouldn't be worth it. 
  
When I was 11 and I went to Merion, I watched Nicklaus and Palmer, I  
fought the two biggest crowds. Knowing what I know now, not a  
chance.
 
  
Q. You mentioned other guys having a good chance. With  
Tiger is it the sense of uncertainty about Tiger, but does this year's  
Open seem a little more open for lack of a better term, more  
accessible to everyone else?
 JIM FURYK: I think it's difficult to take the amount of time he's had off, to come to a U.S. Open and expect to go out there and dominate a golf tournament as he's dominated golf.
  
That being said, anything he does anymore doesn't surprise anyone, so  
I wouldn't be surprised if that were the case. Last time he had  
surgery on his knee and took a whole bunch of time off, I remember him  
coming to San Diego and whipping the field. So I wouldn't be  
surprised if it happened again. 
  
He loves the golf course. He's played well here. He's  
dominated at times. But, yeah, there's always that -- it's hard  
just to take a lot of time off and be sharp. If anyone can do it  
he can, because he doesn't play a heck of a lot of events, he can play  
15 events and be sharp every time he tees it up.
 
  
Q. Do you feel it's there for the taking for anyone?
 JIM FURYK: I never really have had a sense at the U.S. Open that it's there for the taking. I feel like I'm strapping my boots on tight right now and preparing for the tough golf course we're about to play, and not really worried about -- as a player you never worry about who's in the field, who's not, who's injured. I don't get all excited because Phil and Tiger aren't in the field, now I have a better chance to win or something like that. It's a nonfactor to players.
 
  
Q. So far in the times you've been in the primary cut there, the  
little bit lower, how has it been coming out of there, getting shots  
to the green okay, and how are they reacting once they get to the  
green?
 JIM FURYK: The rough, it's relatively uniform, but it's an interesting grass in that what you're calling the primary cut, the ball can sit up quite a bit. You've got a lot of that kikuyu or whatever you want to call it here, where the ball gets caught in it, but it sits in the middle to up in it, where you can get a club on it, but not really control it.
  
You have to -- you can get the ball on the green, but you have to hit  
it short and have it bounce, because you're not going to hit it out of  
there and spin it very much. 
  
The secondary, in spots, can be playable at times, but other times  
I've seen it as just horrendous. It depends on -- there's a lot  
of mixture of grasses in the rough. The fairways are very  
nice. They're what I would call kikuyu, am I using the right --  
what I call kikuyu, the ball sits up perfect, they're full of  
grass. I can't imagine them being in better shape. 
  
The rough has a lot of grasses in it. If you get in the area  
where there's bent, you might have a chance to play. If you get  
in an area where it's kikuyu and thick, you can open the blade of the  
sand wedge up and think about the fairway. It's a little spotty  
in that sense, kind of like U.S. Open rough can be.
 
  
Q. For years we've heard the USGA say that we're not trying to  
protect par at a U.S. Open, do you believe that?
 JIM FURYK: Wow, just put it on me. You're getting like that more and more, Doug. No. I don't think that -- I think it depends on how you want to look at it. I was obviously making a joke with my answer, but I know that they don't want to see 15-under win this golf tournament. But I'm not sure that the even par score is all that important.
 I  
think that -- I played well the last couple of years. I've  
really enjoyed the way the courses were set up. I don't know if  
"enjoy" is the right word, but I liked the setup. I  
felt the better you hit it the more rewarded you were. The worse  
you hit it the more penal it was. In the past I haven't always  
felt that way. 
  
But I like the graduated rough. I think it's a great idea.  
I like moving the fans off the fairway, because I don't like to see a  
guy dribble one in the rough, have an awful lie, and see a guy blow it  
15 yards off the fairway, and it be trampled in that area and whip a 3- 
wood on the green. I never thought that was the proper  
way. Now it's a lot harder to hit the ball in the gallery, not  
impossible, because we've all done it, but a lot harder. I like  
the graduated. The farther you get off the fairway, the worse  
off you are. 
  
As far as protecting par, I firmly believe the USGA wants to make the  
golf course as difficult and as testing a golf course as they can  
without going overboard. And you know what, for the best players  
in the world that's going to be shooting somewhere around even par is  
a good score. 
  
Do I think par is important? I surely don't think they want to  
see five guys break the all-time scoring record in one week. But  
if it's 5-under or 5-over, I don't think it really matters.
 
  
Q. If I can follow-up. As you go to define what a fair  
test is, a hard but fair test --
 JIM FURYK: Did you notice I didn't use that word "fair"? In my answer, I don't think I ever used "fair", because it's such a -- we have to get in the dictionary about what that actually means. We all have an opinion of what fair is.
 
  
Q. Whatever your opinion of fair might be, and you can disclose  
it if you choose, should a score change that opinion, if that makes  
any sense?
  
JIM FURYK: No, I don't. 
 
  
Q. My question or, no, the answer?
 JIM FURYK: No to your question. I think that as a player it's hard for me to put words. Before you were asking me what I think the USGA is doing, it's hard for me to answer that properly, because I don't know, I'm not a member -- I never set up a golf course with the organization.
  
As a player we want to see a difficult golf course that's firm and  
fast, that rewards good shots, that penalizes bad shots and kind of  
separates the field from who is playing well and who is not.  
Everyone has a different idea of a setup that's going to do  
that. But I think we want -- everyone wants to see the same  
thing. It's just -- it's a difficult task to set a golf course  
up and turnaround and say, "That was perfect, that's the way it  
should have been." 
  
If you're trying to get really difficult, sometimes you're going to  
tread the line and all of a sudden a green or two are going to become  
overboard or maybe ease up a little bit too much and all of a sudden a  
few guys shoot under par. It's tough. 
 I  
think I could play where 3-under won the golf tournament and not be  
happy with the setup. Or play 3-over in the tournament and be  
real happy with the setup. If that makes any sense. 
  
I've played in a lot of tournaments where I wasn't particularly happy  
with the setup, where a lower score won. You know, I liked  
Winged Foot and I liked Oakmont, I liked the setup. Oakmont --  
like I say, I have relatives that are members there, and I don't think  
I'd want to get beat up like that on a daily basis on my time  
off. It's tough, but I like the setup.
 
  
Q. If you liked Oakmont and you liked Winged Foot and I'm  
guessing you probably liked Olympia Fields, where does this place  
coming in fit your taste? Do you feel you have as good a chance  
here to win as those three places?
 JIM FURYK: You know, I liked the setup, honestly, better the last two years than I did at Olympia, and I won the golf tournament. But again now we're getting into just tastes. One guy says one thing, one guy says another.
  
Getting back to the question, Olympia set up perfect for me. I  
was on top of my game at the time. The course set up well for me  
and I played well and won. 
  
The last two years were not power dominated. They weren't power  
oriented, especially at Oakmont where you think 7,400 or whatever it  
was, you'd think it would be, but it wasn't. It was playing  
lightning quick, firm and fast, it was about placing the ball in the  
fairway. Both of those courses set up well for me. 
 I  
think it's no secret if I really loved this place and loved the golf  
course, I'd probably play the Buick a lot more often than I do.  
I think it's a good golf course, I think it's very difficult, it  
doesn't suit my game great. But I think it suits my game better  
in the U.S. Open than it does in February. And do I think my  
chances are as good? Probably not, but I still think I have an  
opportunity, if that makes sense.
 
  
Q. Follow-up regarding your drive --
  
JIM FURYK: I thought that was a good answer. 
 
  
Q. It was a great answer, it will make print, I'm sure it  
will. But you said you're fighting your driver here coming into  
the U.S. Open. That's not --
 JIM FURYK: Earlier in the year I was fighting my driver. I don't think I'm fighting it at the moment. Earlier in the year I guess when he said, how do you think your game is coming into here, I kind of summed up the entire year for the way I've played.
  
Lately, I felt I drove the ball well at Colonial, Memorial. I  
think I've put that to rest. And I'm still -- I'm not ready to  
slit my wrists on my putting, but I'm working on it. I always  
feel it could be better.
 
  
Q. I guess this is kind of a follow-up to that, even though it  
wasn't a conspiracy to get to this, would it be surprising to you then  
that your driving and your putting would lead you to win this week? 
 Are you that close or is it something that's requiring a little  
more?
 JIM FURYK: I've always said the three most important clubs in your golf bag are driver, wedge, and putter. And in order to win at the U.S. Open you're going to have to drive the ball in the fairway and knock some putts in. That's the plan.
  
But would it surprise me? No. Because that's been the  
strength of my game for a lot of years. When I'm playing well I  
put the ball in the fairway. And when you're playing well  
everyone is putting pretty good. 
  
So, no, it wouldn't surprise me if it happened, but I've got some work  
to do. I've been working very, very hard on it. 
 
  
Q. So much has been made about the Tiger and Phil pairing, No.  
1, No. 2 in the world on a golf course they grew up playing and they  
both liked a lot. If you had to bet Tiger and/or Phil or the  
field this week, which would you pick?
 JIM FURYK: I feel I'm going to get a text on this answer from someone. Well, I'm in the field, I'll take the field, how's that?  Odds, chance, I don't know. I'm a math guy so I'd have to really sit down and think about the odds on that one and maybe even consult Phil on the odds on that one and come up with an answer. If I was sitting at home on the couch hurt, I don't know, but I'm in the field so I'll take the field.
 
  
Q. For a long period nonAmerican golfers didn't do well in this  
event and now the last four champions have been from outside the  
United States. Is there any reason for that do you think? 
 JIM FURYK: I think there's a lot more -- I have no answer for that. How many Europeans have won this tournament? Like Tony Jacklin was the last one? That's just mind boggling for how many great European players there are.
 A  
lot of those streaks and things that happen are really difficult to  
explain. So I was the last American to win then. I've got  
no answer for you. I know the world of golf is -- the face of  
golf is quite amazing. We have a ton of guys on our Tour  
playing. Seems like we have as many Aussies as we do Americans  
on the PGA TOUR. And we've got a great representation of players  
from all over the world that play in the U.S., but as far as a lot of  
guys always came over. I think maybe having more foreign players  
playing here on a daily basis makes it -- gives them a better  
opportunity to compete in the Majors. Just flying over for one  
week, trying to play the tournament and flying back, say 30 years ago,  
was probably a lot more difficult than having a home in Orlando,  
playing the U.S. Tour on a daily basis, and going to play the U.S.  
Open. 
  
As far as the last four years, I think it's because four good players  
won the tournament. Look at the guys that competed and won it  
and they're great players. It's interesting, we still have the  
"we" and the "they" and the U.S. versus the world,  
I don't know if the players really -- the only time I ever look at it  
like that is The Presidents Cup or the Ryder Cup. A lot of those  
foreign players are my neighbors and guys I practice with. 
 I  
don't think of Vijay as -- I know he's from Fiji, but he's my  
neighbor, so I don't really think of him being from outside the  
States. Appleby and Tiger see each other all the time at  
home. Those guys are part of our Tour and they live here in the  
States. 
 
  
Q. Phil mentioned that most guys would be hitting 3, 4, 5-irons  
into the par-4s. Is this more of a long iron golf course than  
you've ever seen?
 JIM FURYK: Than I've ever seen? No, but it's a big golf course. It's a big golf course, there's no doubt there. And there's a lot -- like you said, there's a lot -- I can even add a hybrid to that list. I hit 3-wood into a par-4 yesterday, into 12, was playing into the wind and I whipped a driver and 3-wood, nice cut 3-wood into the middle of the green. I'll be hitting a lot of hybrids, 5-irons and hybrids, a lot of those into par-4s. I'll have to use any head, intelligence. And there's times when you can play aggressive out there and there's a lot of times on this golf course when you can't. There's some tough pins on some of those greens, too. It's not like a big old fat green with!
  a pin in the middle, with a 3-iron in your hand. There's a couple necks and tails and places they can put the pins where you have a long iron in your hand you've got no way to hit the pin.
 
  
Q. Thoughts on the two holes being considered risk/reward, 14  
maybe on Sunday at 277, is that a good play to try for that? And  
18, obviously, kind of what's your "go" yardage is to try to  
get to 18?
 JIM FURYK: I think go yardage on 18 is going to depend on -- isn't really an exact yardage. If I feel I can hit a 3-wood out there and fly it on the green and stop it or put it in a place where I can get the ball up-and-down easier than laying up, then I'll go ahead and have a go at it. If I've got a hybrid or something in my hand I'll go at it. I don't anticipate that happening.
  
But if I have a 3-wood that I feel I can put it on the green and have  
a chance of stopping it or put it in a bunker or an area where it's --  
I won't say an easy up-and-down, but easier than hitting a hundred  
yard wedge, I'll have a go at it.
  
As far as 14. I need to take a harder look at that. I  
heard rumors, I probably didn't read my material or packet, I don't  
even know if it was in there, to be honest with you. I'll  
probably have to take a look at that again. That hole, off the  
top of my head, would depend a lot on the pin placement and how  
accessible. 
  
Pin over there on the left, I can have a go, put it in the right  
bunker, yeah, I'd probably take a stab at it. Pin on the back of  
that green, maybe not so much, because now your miss is going to be  
right and short and you've got absolutely no play to that pin.  
I'd rather have a club in my hand where I could spin the ball. 
  
RAND JERRIS: Thanks very much for your time this  
afternoon. Good luck this week. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT