VERIZON HERITAGE
April 20, 2008
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Some bright shots, maybe a little frustrating out there, but another good week for you?  
 JIM FURYK: Yeah, I'm happy with the way I played. I haven't been doing well in the last month, few months or so. I think I've been trying to be too perfect, too precise and forget about getting the ball in the hole. And this week I didn't actually strike it as well as I did last week at the Masters. I didn't hit the ball particularly well, but I found a way to scrap it and get the ball up and down.   
 Coming in, the last 12 holes, I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in. But I hit a lot of good putts, which I wasn't doing in weeks past, and I made a bunch of putts this week. I just couldn't coax them in down the stretch when I needed them.  
  
  Q. Talk about the bunker shot on 13. Were you worried about the wrist?  
 JIM FURYK: I wasn't worried about the wrist, I just didn't want the ball to come back and hit me or something crazy to happen. When I hit it, it sounded so funny. I heard two hits and I saw a joint scuff on the heel of my sand wedge and a joint scuff on the ball. So I played it off of the wood, that was the two hits that I heard. But I was kind of surprised I got it up there and had a pretty simple 6-footer, just left center up the hill.   
  
  Q. You had a lot of momentum early in the round and made the turn and things seemed to slow down. What was going on then?  
 JIM FURYK: I had a lot of momentum and hit it in there pretty close on 7, and missed the putt with a little bit of a misread.  
 I hit it there tight on 9 and again missed another 6-footer for birdie.  
 I turned at 3-under, but it could have really been special at the finish. I struggled a little bit on the first three or four holes, I didn't hit it -- I hit a poor iron into 10. I hit a poor drive at 11 to 13. I really kind of scraped it around to play those holes 1-over. Then I turned around and really played well on the way in. I had a great birdie opportunities at 14, 15, 16 and 18. And I hit some pretty good putts. I had a really bad misread at 16, but other than that I lipped it out at 15, burned the edge at 18. I just couldn't get one to fall when I really needed it, I hit a lot of good, solid putts.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT