THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2007
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You're nicely in contention. 
 JIM FURYK:  Yeah, another 1-under par score today, so I'm happy with my standing -- I'm happy with where I stand, 2-under par.  I won't be leading the golf tournament, but hopefully, unless the weather gets real good this afternoon I'll be within an earshot and be close to the leaders. 

 Q.  Real good for you means very wicked this afternoon? 
 JIM FURYK:  No, I'm saying if the weather gets good, the wind dies down, it gets a little warmer out, then I think some guys could maybe run away with some low scores this afternoon.  If not, I think I'll be -- if the weather keeps up the way it is right now -- I'm not ill-willing anyone like that, but if the weather keeps up the way it is, I should be within respectable distance from the leaders. 

 Q.  You really enjoy plotting your way around these courses.  It takes quite a bit of mental power and that's what you've got in abundance, don't you? 
 JIM FURYK:  I hope so, how is that?  I hope so.  I don't hit the ball really all that far by today's standards.  And I think my game is more, as you said, plotting my way around, getting to different points on the course.  I have some weaknesses in my game.  You have to take advantage of the things you're good at. 

 Q.  A couple of people on our team saw you out last night having a drink in a local pub.  You seem to embrace the whole experience of coming to The Open Championship.  You're not one of these closeted guys.  It seems to mean quite a bit to you to get out and about? 
 JIM FURYK:  It's fun.  My wife and I were looking for a place to eat last night.  We ended up grabbing, believe it or not, a couple of pizzas, because all the Americans said there's a great pizza place up on High Street.  And on our way back carrying them back to the hotel we saw Justin Leonard, Scott Verplank and a couple of big American contingency and they talked us into one pint up there at -- was it Kinloch, I think? 

 Q.  That's right, the Kinloch Arms. 
 JIM FURYK:  We got our arm twisted and went in for a pint. 

 Q.  What do you make of the local brew? 
 JIM FURYK:  Very good.  Very good.  I went for the McEwan's last night.  It was the only British beer I saw there on top, so that's what I went with. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT