BUICK OPEN
June 29, 2007
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE:  We would like to welcome Jim Furyk to the interview room here at the Buick Open.  Jim, as it stands right now you're 10-under par through two rounds, sitting one shot behind Kenny Perry.   
 Talk a little bit about what it's like going through your round out there.  You're playing well, but then you see a very streaky player like Kenny Perry get it going and throwing up red numbers left and right.   
 JIM FURYK:  I've got to be honest with you, I didn't have any idea.  I had no idea that he was 10 under today until I finished and talked to you all out at the flash.  I was told he was 10-under by the Golf Channel.  He's streaky.  He's played well at certain courses in the past.  This is one of them.  I think he's won here at least once, maybe more.  But he's played well here in the past and it's a heck of a round.   
 The way you judge really good rounds is if you go out and shoot 7 under and there were four other 7 unders and a bunch of 6s, it's a good round, but when you really separate yourself, like Paul Casey did at the U.S. Open, shooting 4-under and the next best round was 1, that's pretty special.  And I would assume his round is going to be pretty far ahead of the rest of the field.   
  
  Q.  Your round, six birdies, two bogeys, how did it feel out there?   
 JIM FURYK:  All right.  I played well on the front, managed my game well.  Made some mistakes on the back nine today and got loose a little bit with the driver, but was able to kind of combat that with three birdies at 12 and 13 and 14 in a row, and all those putts were inside of four feet.  That really held my round together on the back nine.   
 I had made a couple of bad swings, a bad iron at 11, and some bad tee shots that I hit left there for a few holes in a row, but I finished up strong and hit the ball real well the last two and a half holes and almost was able to coax a putt in.  I had one lipout pretty bad on me on 18.  I finished up strong and was happy to have those bad drives behind me.   
  
  Q.  Did you find the conditions differently today, because other than Kenny Perry and a few other guys, the scores weren't as low today?   
 JIM FURYK: I noticed that before I went out and played.  I'm not sure what the reason for that was, to be honest with you.  It wasn't that windy, but the breeze blew from pretty much the same direction as it did yesterday.  The greens are maybe not quite as soft as they were yesterday.  But all in all, it must have been pin placements just being more difficult today than they were yesterday, because I can't put my finger on it.  It was two shots harder for me, as well.   
  
  Q.  It always seems to be the same guys on the leaderboard here.  All the guys who have played well come back and continue to play well, yourself, Kenny, Rocco.  Aside from the courses-for-horses theory, any other thoughts on why this golf course -- is it just a matter of experience, guys coming back over 30 years?   
 JIM FURYK:  I don't know.  I honestly -- for me, it's just a place that I enjoy playing, that suits my style of game very well.  I don't think Kenny and I have similar styles, in that he has got a lot more power and he can overpower a golf course.  I'm a little bit more meticulous and kind of point to point, but we both obviously seem to like it and have played well here in the past.   
 You know, again, I don't have an answer, other than I think the courses -- the horses-for-courses theory is the best I can come up with, I think.  Historically, I tend to play well at a lot of the same events and have gotten myself in position more often at those events than I have at others.  A lot of it has to do with getting excited about the golf course and having somewhere that really suits you physically, but also I think it gives you a mental boost to go into a course like that and you probably have a little better attitude.   
  
  Q.  You said you don't watch Kenny Perry on the scoreboard, but are you watching Brett Quigley up ahead at all?   
 JIM FURYK:  I didn't look at the scoreboard too much today.  Our groups on the back nine, we were on the same tee boxes or close to the group in front of us a lot today, so I could see where Brett was.  Being Friday, I really didn't take much of a peek at the leaderboard.  I knew I was in good shape.  I knew that I was close to the lead in the golf tournament, and also knew that it didn't really matter all that much because it was Friday and you just go out there and play the best you can.   
 If we were coming down the stretch on Sunday on the back nine, I would have had a lot better idea of what was going on.  I would have been looking at the board a little bit more.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT