WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2007
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  The up-and-down of the match play itself and the whole weekend, just kind of talk about the pressure of trying to get out of the first round itself. 
 JIM FURYK:  Every one of us here is a good player and capable of beating anyone in the field.  It's tough.  It's a different -- match play is just different.  You can play a good round and still pack your bags and go home. 
 You've just got to prepare every day and go out there and play as hard as you can.  There's going to be some ebb and flow in every match.  Brett won a bunch of holes today; I was up, he was up.  Kind of went back and forth.  I played real solid on the back nine and was fortunate enough to get a couple holes in. 

 Q.  I asked you the other day, the focus level, not necessarily different because you're still out there and you're playing golf, but say when he was up and you guys were going back and forth, you've still got to keep that mental edge on top of him? 
 JIM FURYK:  Well, I think you just can't get too down on yourself.  Things can change very quickly in match play.  And on the other side when you're up you have to remember that you have to keep playing hard and keep trying to make birdies because things can change very quickly when you're playing by holes rather than score. 
 You know, our match, I've got to think out of the 17 holes we played, at least ten of them were won by one of the two of us.  So there was a bunch of back and forth. 

 Q.  Match play being brought here to Tucson, kind of a big deal as far as being at La Costa for so long.  Your first impressions after finally getting out here one day? 
 JIM FURYK:  Well, I miss coming to Tucson.  With having Tucson Open being the opposite event to the Carlsbad tournament at La Costa, you know, I was bummed out.  I wanted to come back to Tucson where I went to school.  It's a place I've always enjoyed. 
 I really -- it was fun being out there, so many U of A fans, so many supporters.  And going to school there I was adopted by a lot of the people out there in the gallery, so it was fun. 

 Q.  Does it kind of get your juices flowing when you feel yourself getting that momentum and you feel the crowd is behind you? 
 JIM FURYK:  Absolutely.  I had a big turn.  I was 1-down at the turn, I ended up winning 10 and 11 back to back, going 1-up and actually won 12, so three holes in a row.  The crowd got behind me and a little boisterous out there, and it was a lot of fun. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT