THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 2, 2006
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. I understand unless Adam Scott does something really spectacular you're going to be the Vardon Trophy winner.
JIM FURYK:  I kind of heard that because    well, basically because Tiger didn't play enough rounds this year.  He had it locked up.  I don't know what the differential is or how many shots we have to be separated by.  I probably don't even want to know.  More than anything, just go out and play golf.

It's been a very good year for me, and one that I've had a lot of fun playing throughout the year.  Two wins, going to finish second on the Money List no matter what happens this week.  It was a solid year.

If that happens, it would be great, some more icing on top of the cake.  But I'm not going to worry about it too much, just go try to play golf this week and try to play as well as I can.
Q.  Looking forward, have you decided what you're going to do about next year's FedEx Cup Series and how that impacts your schedule?
JIM FURYK:  I've been trying.  I've been trying to work out a schedule.  The hardest part for me to work out is about the first three months.  Once April comes around it's easy for me to work out my schedule from the events that I usually play and don't.  I'm struggling a little bit with what I'm going to do through January, February, March.

A lot of the events aren't on the schedule this year are ones that I haven't played in the past for whatever reason.  So now all the events that I've played in ten months' time are squished in eight and a half.  So there's probably a few events that I've played in the past that I won't be able to play now.

Still, I can't play    if I usually play about 25 events in ten months and a week, I can't play 25 events in eight months.  I'm going to have to take some of those off.  I actually feel bad, because most of the tournaments I play I really enjoy playing.
Q.  How were things today?
JIM FURYK:  Okay.  I scored well on the front nine.  I got the ball around well.  2 under was probably the best I could have done.

I went to the back side, three putted 11; made a bad double bogey at 13; drove it perfect on 14, made bogey.  I gave two, three shots away on the back nine.

But then I turned around and sucked it up a little bit, made birdie on 15; birdied 18 and turned it into a good day.  It was kind of a good day to survive, and it might be a week to survive from the forecast that's coming up.

I had my ups and downs.  I made a bunch of birdies today but only shot 1 under.  The good news is it's only one shot off the lead and in good position.
Q.  Especially on the back side, just control    it seemed pretty blustery.
JIM FURYK:  It was blustery.  I made a bunch of birdies today.  It was playable, but I also wasn't able to eliminate the mistakes.  The blustery conditions, the cool, windy weather, it made those bogeys    it made them easy to find out there.

I didn't play probably as consistent as I would have liked to, but I made a bunch of birdies to cover up those mistakes and had a good day.
Q.  You're Top 5 in something called scrambling.  What does that say about your game?  What makes you good at that?  And is that going to be something you're going to count upon a lot with these conditions?
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, I think anyone that's in this field is scrambling.  When you go out there and win a golf tournament, or when you play well during the week, not only did you probably strike it pretty well, not only did you probably putt pretty well, but you also found a way when you hit your bad shots and got in trouble.  You found a way to get out of trouble, make a par when you should have made bogey and made bogey when you should have made double and scrambled pretty well.

I think that's probably one of the reasons I've had such a good year, but I think in any given week, guys that are playing well are doing that well.
Q.  What was your best scrambling today?
JIM FURYK:  Probably getting up and down for par on 1.  Hit it in the left rough; hit an iron about 10 or 15 yards short of the green; still had 40 feet to the pin; hit it up there to five feet and knocked it in for par.
Q.  Are you surprised there isn't a 4 or 5 up there from somebody?
JIM FURYK:  No, it's a good hard golf course.  It's a good solid test.  The rough is such that you can get a club on it and advance it but you can't control the ball very well.  You know, I'm not surprised at all.  This course has always held up really well, and in the tough conditions I didn't expect that many under par to be leading.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT