WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2006
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about what happened on 6.
JIM FURYK:  Well, I hit a ball in the really heavy rough kind of on the downslope, and it buried.  We were having a difficult time finding the ball, and obviously we were all right in front of it, we just couldn't see it.  It was in a horrible lie, probably six inches under the grass, and we found it because Ian stepped on it looking for it.  Obviously that was probably the only way we were going to find the ball.

So we identified it, the rules official said when he stepped on it, he probably moved the ball, which is correct, so I was going to get a drop.

You know, I dropped it in an area where I still probably couldn't have gotten the ball on the green; maybe I could have, but I just felt like it was definitely taking advantage of the situation.  I took an unplayable lie, went back about 50 yards, I wedged up about a foot and made my 5 anyway.
Q.  I don't know if you heard about what Darren did a few months ago.  Did you think about that at all?
JIM FURYK:  I did actually.  I thought it was a great example, and he's a good friend and someone I really admire.  Yeah, that's kind of what was going through my mind, and I felt like Ian did me a favor by finding the ball.  Stepping on it probably was the only way we were going to get it.

Yeah, I think all that went through my mind and I felt like I did the right thing, and in the long run, knocked it a foot, made a 5, and it was kind of even anyway and my conscience was good.
Q.  And then as far as your day today, 69?
JIM FURYK:  Well, I'm disappointed with the finish.  I hit a little bit of a    got caught in between clubs on 17, never committed to the shot and I hit a poor shot over to the left.  It was going to cost me probably a tie for second.  Overall it was a great week, I played wonderful, but finishing like that always leaves a sour taste, so right now I'm a little chapped.
Q.  And your reward is going home?
JIM FURYK:  The reward is going home.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT