HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2006
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q  Bad luck, Jim.  A tough game obviously right from early on.
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, you know, basically it came down to I putted poorly.  I have no excuses.  The greens here are perfect.  They are in really good shape.  They are rolling true.  I never really got the ball in line.  I never really got accustomed to the pace.  Robert did a really good job on the greens, and with his short game, and he did the things he needed to do to score, and I did not.

I hit the ball great for 33 holes, but you know, give you an idea, I hit the ball good in the second round and my three birdies were little chip in and two two putts.  I started too far behind and he played too well.  He made nine birdies in the first round.

If my putter gets hot, I could give him a little better game and give him a little better run, I just wasn't able to do it.
Q.  It's a game of momentum, isn't it?
JIM FURYK:  I had it a little bit on the front nine, and I won a couple holes, I won a couple holes back on the front nine and got it back to three and going down seven, I drove it in the left semi and ended up in a divot.  Then hit it up on top of that big ridge and it came racing back and it took me three to get down and gave him a hole there.

I think we might have halved the rest of the way out.  I think we halved 7 through 15 with mostly pars and a birdie here and there.  So I wasn't able to apply the pressure through the middle of the round like I would have liked to, but it was all due to putting.  I couldn't get momentum without making putts.
Q.  Never lies to lose but have you enjoyed your experience?
JIM FURYK:  It's a pretty place.  Right now I'm still in the    I'm pissed off that I lost, but, you know, he played well and I didn't do the things I needed to.  Wentworth, a beautiful place, and I'd like to come back sometime.
Q.  What are your plans now?
JIM FURYK:  I don't know.  I'll probably make a game plan tonight and try to figure that all out.  I'm not sure when I'll arrive at The K Club.
Q.  Obviously with you both being Ryder Cuppers, does this say anything for next week?  Does it give Europe a boost perhaps?
JIM FURYK:  It says he beat me today, how's that?  And I'll have to try harder next time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT