PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2006
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JIM FURYK:  The course is playing soft out there, and it's definitely gettable today.  You can see the leaders going out and they already made a bunch of birdies early.  I expect that to continue.  3 under today, I started six back, I'm probably going to lose ground.  In fact, I'm definitely going to lose ground, so if I'm more than six back it's going to take something really phenomenal tomorrow.
Q.  Do you think there's a 64, 65 out there?
JIM FURYK:  I guess I'll have to wake up and see what the conditions are like, how the course is playing tomorrow.  I think there's a 64, 65 out there today possibly.
Q.  Players said the greens were kind of plugging?
JIM FURYK:  Well, they haven't been    I wouldn't say they're slow.  They haven't been overly quick this week and they've been relatively soft.  They've been able to hold iron shots, and with the rain last night they're even more soft.  But also it relates to as the day goes on, the greens get beat up a little bit because there's so many spike marks going through and so much traffic.

The golf course is playing longer today.  Fairways aren't running quite as much, but with the soft greens, guys can still be aggressive.  You see a lot of guys getting off to a fast start.  Even I got off to a pretty fast start today, and I had my opportunities, I just didn't really take advantage of them.
Q.  Was the course playing too easy for a major?
JIM FURYK:  It's too subjective.  It's playing how it is.  It's a nice golf course, and they set it up fair.  I don't think there is such a thing as too easy or too hard.  I think it's a fair golf course, and I'd rather see guys at 11 under than having everyone come in and say the golf course is unfair.

That being said, Winged Foot, I thought the course was awesome this year.  I thought the setup was incredible.  I know everyone is going to think I'm picking on the USGA by saying that, but I'm not.  Probably the best job I've ever seen setting up a U.S. Open was this year.
Q.  So it's not that easy to judge a course by just looking at the scores, too hard or too easy by looking at the scores?
JIM FURYK:  I think what's led to the low scores this week is the soft greens.  If the greens were firmer it's a different story.  I don't know what the reason behind that was.  I don't know if there was rain before we got here or not.  Now obviously it's rained last night, but they've been soft all week and holding and guys have been able to be aggressive with iron shots.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT