PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Comment on your birdies.
JIM FURYK:  All two of them.
Q.  Pretty consistent first round, though.
JIM FURYK:  It was.
Q.  Are you pleased overall with it?
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, I am.  I let a few shots go early on and missed a bunch of putts early and a couple short ones.  I missed about a five footer for birdie on 3 and a three footer for birdie on 4.  That's a tough way to start the tournament.  I made some good birdies at 12 and 13, two tough holes, and I had to make some good par saves at both 16 and 17 so I was able to knock those putts in.
Q.  I guess the putter carried you through then?
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, I got off to a rocky start but I was able to scramble and made some solid putts on the way in, so I felt pretty good about it.
Q.  You're used to seeing low scores before you go out on regular Tour events.  Is it different at a major championship when you go out in the afternoon and guys are shooting 4  or 5 under all over the board?
JIM FURYK:  A lot of times at the PGA that's the case and then the golf course seems to get a little tougher as the week goes on.  They let it dry out a little bit and it firms up.  But right now the fairways are running pretty firm.  Hopefully the rain doesn't come in and screw up the golf course because it's playing pretty good.  But the greens are still pretty soft.  We can be aggressive with iron shots and that's why you're seeing the scores so good.
Q.  Is today going to be the easiest day of the four?
JIM FURYK:  Depending on the rain and all, it could possibly, just because the scores are pretty good, but you never know.  Sunday won't be the easiest day, we already know that, and usually Saturday is not easy, either.

You never know.  We'll see what happens with the weather tonight.  I don't expect it to get any easier, how's that?  Even if it rains, it'll be interesting because then the golf course will actually play long.  It's not playing 7,500 right now.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT