BUICK OPEN
August 4, 2006
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
You were rock steady as usual here.  Anything unique about today's round?
JIM FURYK:  The only thing is it was 30 holes.  I kind of paced myself early on.  I was pretty tired coming down the stretch.  It was nice to finish it off well.  I was getting a little tired there towards the end, but still birdied 7 and 9.
Q.  Of all the courses on the tour, do you feel like this is the best course you play?
JIM FURYK:  I don't know if I would say it is the best course, but I am comfortable here.  I would definitely put it in the top five of places I look forward to, at least top five or top 10.  There are places that I really feel like I have the best chance of competing.  I feel like I can compete well on any course, but when you come to one that really suits your game and you've played well in the past, it gives you a little extra confidence and I think I have more opportunities.
Q.  How about the changes they've made to this course?  Why do you think you play so well here?
JIM FURYK:  Well, you have to be playing well.  Usually when I've come in here, I've played awful at the British Open so I'm a little ticked off and trying to get back into things.  I played well at the British for once this year and so I had some confidence coming in.  But the golf course, you have to hit it straight here at Warwick Hills.  If you can do that, you're going to be left with short irons in your hand, and those are my strengths when I'm playing well.
Q.  For 30 holes, 7 under par, is that the best you could hope for after all this golf?
JIM FURYK:  I wouldn't say that, but I'm pleased with the round.  Obviously Jeff and I    Jeff was 11, and I'm 10, there are going to be lower scores than that.  We're going to be chasing on the weekend.
Q.  Ryder Cup talk.
JIM FURYK:  I think Chris and I are excited.  We're in pretty good position.  And I know Jeff, I want to say he moved into about    I forget what the number was, but if he gets one real good finish or two good finishes on the way out, it would be great for him.
Q.  You had about an hour between rounds today?
JIM FURYK:  No.  It wasn't that much, it was probably thirty or 40 minutes, something like that.
Q.  Was it a good thing when you're playing well?
JIM FURYK:  I didn't even go to the practice tee.  If you wait too long, you lose the rhythm you're in.  I birdied the last three of the first round.  I wouldn't have minded just going to the tee.  I just went in and got a little refreshed and grabbed some food.  I was just trying to get some energy for the afternoon round.
Q.  Is this the most holes you've played in a professional tournament?
JIM FURYK: No, I've gone 36.  It's common if we get rained out.  You play as many holes as you can in a day.  We've played 36 a few times before.  Usually it's after a lot of run so the ground is soft, the ground is mushy and it's tough to walk.

But Warwick Hills is not a long golf course to walk.  From greens to tee, it isn't that long.  I won't say it's an easy walk, but it's a mild walk compared to other courses.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT