CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 8, 2006
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You certainly made things interesting coming in on 18, didn't you?
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, perfect drive, no excuse for hitting that.  I just hit kind of a three quarter 8 iron in.  No excuse for the shot I hit, but I was fortunate to get a pretty good break.  Actually I thought I had a pretty good lie down there.  I thought I'd be able to chip it up close.  I didn't hit a good putt afterwards, but overall I'm disappointed with the way I played the last three holes, but I got the ball up and down to do that in just 1 over.

The bright side is I'm a couple back, the leaders still have a couple holes to play, but I'm only one back coming into tomorrow and in striking distance.
Q.  You did make a huge putt on 17 to save par there.
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, I made a good par putt on 16 and 17.  My game this week, I've either hit the ball really well and can't hit a four foot hole or hit it awful and knock some putts in.  It's kind of come together and worked out so far, but hopefully I can get it all together tomorrow.
Q.  Coming in as defending champion, putting yourself in position to defend your title, you certainly feel like you have put yourself in that position?
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, Top 10, a couple back.  I think most important, you're looking at what the lead is, how many guys between you and the lead, and right now I'm tied for 7th but only two shots back.  It'll be a battle tomorrow.  There's a bunch of guys, and one of us hopefully will go out there and shoot a good number and try to separate.
Q.  Talk about the eagle on 8.
JIM FURYK:  I made a real good swing there and thought that I was going to hit it pretty close and get an extra bonus there.  I couldn't see it go in, but I could hear their reaction.
Q.  There hasn't been a whole lot of wind through this week.  The leaderboard is a little bit volatile, a little crowded.  How do you look at that for tomorrow and what you might have to do?
JIM FURYK:  I don't know what the forecast is for tomorrow.  I'll check it out tonight.  If it stays relatively calm, I think someone will go out there and fire a good number.  I need to go out and make some birdies tomorrow and put up a good mid 60s number.
Q.  What goes through your mind when you're looking at that shot out of the pond?
JIM FURYK:  Well, it's unique in that you have to take your shoe off to play it or get soaking wet, one of the two.  I did get very lucky.  The ball was sitting up very well.  If there was no water there, I feel like I could get that ball up and down more times than not actually, or at least 50/50.  That's how good a lie I had.

It was tough, pretty soft under there, so I was a little nervous about actually slipping when I was going to swing.  Usually it's kind of mucky and you sink in, but it was pretty slippery there and I was just trying to make sure I kept my footing.
Q.  Have you had to do that out on Tour before?
JIM FURYK:  Sure.
Q.  So it's not the first time you've been in that situation?
JIM FURYK:  No.  You're making way too much out of the worst shot I hit today rather than all the good stuff I hit.
Q.  Let's make something out of the good stuff.  The U.S. Open, I know it didn't go your way.  You played very well through the week maybe with the exception of the end of the event.  Here you are this week, end of the event again, another major coming up.  How do you look at it?
JIM FURYK:  Well, I took two weeks off, so it was good to    it's good to come out and be playing pretty well, but I also feel like I've made some mistakes this week that have shown that I've taken two weeks off.  I made a couple really bad swings, 17th tee comes to mind, second shot into 18, stuff that I'm a little conservative about.

But then I look back and I ground it out, got the ball up and down when I needed to, and I'm close.  My game is    I'm not totally confident or totally feeling great about it, but I know that I'm pretty close, and I know it's good enough to get myself in contention.  Hopefully I can take a few things out and get out there and play well tomorrow and feel good about going to the British.
Q.  What would it mean to win this thing back to back years, given the way this tournament is going to change?
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, I have a lot of respect for the Western Golf Association.  I played in a bunch of Juniors, Amateurs, now a ton of Opens.  It is going to be the last Western as we know it, but the Western Golf Association is still going to run the championship next year.  They're still going to be a big part of it, and all the proceeds are going to go to the Evans Scholars.  They're still going to be here, but it'll be the last Western and we know it.  Up until last year, I always have played well and always wanted to win this golf tournament, so it would mean a lot, and it would mean a lot more to do it back to back.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT