U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2006
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Score card says even par, what does your brain tell you, under par?
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, it's definitely playing difficult.  You know, there's no hole out there that I felt was unfair.  I mean, you could play.  There's some hard holes, though, and it's tough to get the ball in the fairway, and when you don't you can't, and you have a difficult time scoring.  If you hit a drive in the rough and you get out of it with a par, you really feel happy about it.
Q.  Does this course fit your eye particularly?
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, I like the golf course, I always have.  I try to play here    it seems like every other or every third year I'll come down during Westchester and try to play a round.  I enjoyed playing it at the '97 PGA.  I played pretty well in that event.

It looks good, suits my eye, but that's a small part of the battle.  The other part is hitting the shots and executing, which is difficult to do out here.
Q.  How many times were you in the deep rough?
JIM FURYK:  Once, the 18th hole was the only time where I really felt like I missed a fairway by a lot.  I had a couple close ones and some    most of them were just a few yards off the fairway.  I was usually in that    I was always in that first cut of rough, and then 18 was the only time I really flew one out in the weeds.
Q.  What's your opinion on that graduated rough?  Do you like it?
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, it seems fine.  The biggest difference to me is it seems like the gallery ropes are much wider than usual, which is kind of nice in the sense that it used to be if you missed a fairway by one or two yards, you had a terrible lie, and if you missed a fairway by 15 yards you could be out there where the gallery trampled it and it would be pretty good, and that doesn't seem to be the case this week.  So far I like the graduated.  It seems like you get    you kind of get what you deserve.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JIM FURYK:  It was difficult.  When I checked the report last night, it was supposed to be pretty healthy this morning and kind of lay down a little bit in the afternoon is what I thought, and it seemed to go the other way.  As I played, it was definitely blowing harder on the back nine than the front, and it seems to be just picking up some steam right now.
Q.  Could you run through your round right now, some of the key holes, birdies and bogeys?
 JIM FURYK:  I bogeyed 3 and 4.  3, I hit a tee shot in the bunker that hit the top lip and shot down behind the bottom lip.  I used a putter to get the ball into the bunker where I could get the ball up and down so I ended up being a good bogey.

I drove it in the rough on 4, wedged it out about 12 feet and missed it.

Birdied 5, hit a good wedge to about six feet and birdied 6.  I hit an iron shot in there about three feet, so it was nice.

I think those were key holes after getting off to a tough start.  After bogeying 3 and 4, to come back and birdie the next two was nice.

I birdied 10, knocked in about a 20 footer.

And I guess I bogeyed 14.  I drove it in the fairway in an area that seemed like it was about 12 yards wide, it was probably about 18.  That hole was playing pretty tough.  I hit a good driver, and that was between my 3 iron and my hybrid going in there.  It was playing right in the teeth of the wind when we got there.  I hit the hybrid short right and wasn't able to get up and down and missed a ten footer.

I birdied 16, hit it in there about four feet.

And then 18, I hit a bad drive again in the left rough, wedge, wedge, and a couple of putts.
Q.  What did you hit for your tee shot on 10 and what do you think about that hole in general?
 JIM FURYK:  I think it's a pretty hole.  If you just put that green up on a picture, that would be pretty stereotypical of Winged Foot.  It's got some beautiful bunkering and it's a great looking hole.  It's pretty and intimidating, but I think it's a good hole.
Q.  Are you happy with where you hit right now?
 JIM FURYK:  Yeah, it could be worse, but it could always be better.  70 is always a good score at the U.S. Open.  It's a good start to the week and something to build on, and it definitely won't hurt.  I'll be in good position at the end of the day.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT