WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2016
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jim, I know it's not the finish you wanted.  You're still in contention with a shot to win tomorrow.
JIM FURYK: It was a really good, patient day.  I didn't get off to the greatest of starts.  I was even par through 8.  I think I only made one birdie through 13 holes today but kind of got hot with a birdie at 14, eagle at 15, birdie at 16.  Had it rolling and then missed the fairway at 17 and I missed the fairway at 18 and the rough here doesn't allow you to hit a ball.  It's hard to control.  I'm disappointed with the two bogies.  Overall, still some good position with the tournament.  Need to get over that and play a good round tomorrow.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about the strategy going into tomorrow?
JIM FURYK: Same thing.  Go out there, it's a golf course where if you put the ball in play and you be patient you're going to get some opportunities.  If you get a little impatient out here, hit the ball in the rough, these greens will bite you and, you know, right now the protection with no wind the greens are super quick, they have a lot of undulation in them.
If you hit the ball in the wrong spot it's very difficult to two-putt.  I think I've got -- I already have three 3 putts this week.  I know it's hard to look up at the board and see everyone firing low scores.  Everyone shot 64 today it looks like.  So it's easy to kind of get impatient.  If you do so you can make some bogies fast.
Q. Jim, after three rounds you're still in contention.  Has this been the kind of week, the kind of day with leaderboard knowing you got to keep making birdies out there?
JIM FURYK: It is.  I looked at some of the scores while we were on the course and looked like everyone shot 64 today or 65 or 66.  There's a lot of good numbers out there.  But it's also a place where if you're not patient you can make a bunch of bogies.
If you don't hit the ball in the fairway you can make a bunch of bogies as well.  I'm sure you saw a few of those rounds as well where guys make 5, 6 birdies but made 4, 5 bogies as well and, you know, feel like they let a day go.
I got off to a slow start and stayed really patient today.  I was proud of that.  One birdie and 12 pars through 13 holes and then was able to go birdie, eagle, birdie and get myself in good position.
Disappointed -- I missed -- I hit a bad shot at the 17th tee.  Didn't hit too bad of a driver off 18, tugged it a little bit.  But missing both fairways I wasn't able to save par either time.  Disappointed in the finish but still should be about four shots back.
Q. Lot of guys coming into this week with different goals one week before The Playoffs start.
Did you have any specific goals coming into this week or more about momentum?
JIM FURYK: Well, I guess the goal is to go out and play well, to have a good tournament.  There's certain things that you know I need to play well to kind continue on in The Playoffs.
I'm in next week but need to play well to get to Boston.  You know, that's in the back of my mind but that's not a goal, I guess by any stretch.  I always -- my goal would be to go out and play a good round of golf tomorrow, shoot a good number, hopefully have a chance to win the golf tournament down the stretch.
If not, finish as high as I can and if I do do those sorts of things the rest will take care of itself.  I really don't -- you know, those guys are maybe on the bubble trying to keep their card, I realize that's a goal but got to kind of take -- can't put the cart in front of the horse.  You need to go play good golf.
Q. Based on the numbers of where it is, it's going to take what, 22, 23-under to win this thing?
JIM FURYK: I'll let you guys do it.  I play golf.  I don't know.  It will depend on -- you know, that always depends on the leader.  I think I'm like T-4, 13-under.  If the leader takes off and goes, yes, but I'm not exactly sure where everyone stands to be honest with you.  It's hard to answer your question.  I don't really get caught up in picking numbers.  I never have.  Only because I'm usually never right.
Q. Jim, every hole seems like you hear someone yelling, "58".  Do you notice that.  Is that driving you?  You get a chuckle out of it?  What is it doing for you?
JIM FURYK: It's not -- I think you were going to say is it driving you crazy.  It's not driving me crazy.  It's happened and in my mind when I'm out there playing in a tournament, it happened, it's over with.  I need to concentrate on today.  It's still nice that folks do, they're excited and yelling it out.  You know, Mr. Geiberger gear sat on that for 20 years where everyone yelled it out.  Maybe I'll have the opportunity to sit on it as well for that long.  It's fun.
Q. 18, slippery long putt.  What did you see and it took forever to get there but finally got there?
JIM FURYK: Honestly, I was surprised the beginning part went so far to the left so it kind of missed the slope.  The slope was steeper and hit it more at the pin.  The slope was steeper.
Honestly, if I hit that putt ten times I might only keep a couple of them up on the green.  The other 8 are probably going down to the bottom.  So, in all honesty, 5 is probably a good score.
I hit a great second putt, almost got out of there and stole one with a 4.  The mistake was probably clubbed under a little bit and made the mistake -- made sure I carried the fairway -- the cross bunker and left the ball short, if anything.  The ball caught a lot of heat and flew a long way.
Mistake was knocking it past the pin where Hideki left it 40 yards short you can still get ball -- that was an easier up and down than where I was at.
Honestly, slope on that green where that pin was, 8 out of 10 times if I get that over the ridge I would have knocked it off the green.  It would have been tough.
Q. Is it fun to play tournaments where you know you kind of have to attack and have to go really low?
JIM FURYK: You know, that never really -- doesn't matter to me.  I like to play golf courses that I feel suit my game that I'm comfortable on that I enjoy playing.  I think this is a fun golf course to play.
You know, the Catch-22 with this place, and I was talking to the Director of Golf and talking to the gentleman that owns it, his name escapes me right now, guys are firing low numbers.  I get it.  If you get the ball in the fairway, you have short irons in your hand, you have the best players in the world, someone is going to fire a good number.
But, the rough is a certain height, it's hard to control the golf ball and the greens are, honestly, I put them in the Top-5 of the most severe we play all year.
You get the ball on the wrong side of the hole you're going to see a lot of 3-putts out here.  You get impatient.  Lot of birdies made, lot of low scores but if you get impatient it can jump up and bite you, make a lot of bogies as well.
The Catch-22, an event where everyone is firing low is if you get impatient on this golf course you're not going to -- you have to kind of pick and choose your moments to be aggressive and take advantage of the opportunities when you have them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT