BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 26, 2005
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  Jim, first of all, thanks for joining us.  I know it's probably not the best of circumstances and I appreciate you taking the time to answer some questions here.

I guess start off maybe talking a little bit about Padraig's putt on 18, as you said it could easily have been a 3 putt and probably weren't expecting to see that go in.
JIM FURYK:  Well, no, that's the last thing that was on my mind at the time.  I was just trying to prepare to hit my putt.  I actually felt good about it, but obviously it's a little anticlimactic.  I don't remember what I was thinking of when I hit my putt.

You know, I opened the door a little bit, the bogey at 16, missing a little one at 17, which, you know I should have knocked that putt in 99 out of 100 times.  That was disappointing.

I opened up the door, he hit a perfect drive at 18, I did not.  When he put it on the front left of the green I realized how difficult that putt was because if it gets past the hole, it doesn't take much for it to leak down close to the fringe.  It was down the hole from anything past the hole.

I figured I had    you have to prepare for him to 2 putt that hole, and I know I have to make my putt to tie.  He just hit a fabulous putt.  Obviously it was a good putt, probably would not have went all that far by, probably three or four feet or something.  That was a great putt, went right in the center.  Nothing you can really do.  Tipped my hat to him.  It was a wonderful way for him to end the tournament.  I didn't close the door.  I had some opportunities out there when I was 3 up and had a birdie putt at 14 that didn't go in.  I had a birdie putt at 15 that I didn't quite hit hard enough.  16, I made a bad swing.  I was a little shocked at my iron shot on 17, skipping through the green there.  I played the hole how I wanted to, and I hit a really good putt from the short cut and just hit a bad little 3 footer that I pushed and didn't knock in.

So, you know, I'm obviously disappointed but my hat is off to him.  Padraig hung in there tough and had a lot go bad for him early in the round and he hung in there, eagling 9 and then kind of went south again there on 11 and 12 but hung in there and made some birdies coming in.
Q.  Is it at all a consolation when a guy makes an improbable putt as opposed to a routine ball?
JIM FURYK:  No, there's no consolation.  I don't know how to elaborate on that, other than finishing second really stinks.
Q.  Was there any sense, you haven't won in a couple of years, was there any nerves or anything?
JIM FURYK:  I think any time you're coming down the stretch, I don't care if you're Tiger Woods or Jack Nicklaus, there's nerves.  That's what makes it important.  When that stuff stops happening, I'm going to quit the game because that means it doesn't mean anything to me anymore.

Yes, nervous but a good nervous.  I think all of us live for those moments.
Q.  The club selection on 16 and then just a little bit more on the putt on 17, did you push it, misread it?
JIM FURYK:  I pushed it.  I pushed it which I said earlier    the club selection on 16?
Q.  Yeah.
JIM FURYK:  What do you mean?  5 iron.
Q.  That's all.
JIM FURYK:  Okay.
Q.  When you see that putt get close to the hole and you know it's going to go in, does your mind kind of go blank at that point?
JIM FURYK:  You know, I don't remember what exactly I was thinking of.  There's probably a couple four letter words in there somewhere.  (Laughter).

Yeah, I was a little    I think a little stunned.  I had this golf tournament won I felt coming down the stretch.  I opened the door and I let him in and he closed it.  So yeah, more than anything, just disappointed.  Disappointed in letting an opportunity slip away.
CHRIS REIMER:  Any positives you can take into the next few events.
JIM FURYK:  I played well, that's a positive.  Right now    right now I'm just obviously disappointed.  I wanted to close the door.  I wanted to win the golf tournament.  I did not.  I played well; that's a positive note.  But, you know, getting close    finishing third is always positive.  Finishing second and getting close, you know, immediately right after it's difficult to take something good out of it, but I will.
CHRIS REIMER:  Thanks for doing this and good luck.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT