THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2005
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIM FURYK:  It was probably more of a heck of a finish.
Q.  That was a heck of an 18.

JIM FURYK:  Well, I didn't get off to that much of a fast start.  I birdied 5, birdied 9 for a couple under, but then I had six in a row from 11 through 16, so good finish to the day and just kind of got in a good rhythm out there, hit some solid shots and I knocked in a lot of putts, which was fun.
Q.  Is it just what you would expect with no wind and you can attack?

JIM FURYK:  Well, I think you obviously, going off early in the morning   no one wants to get up at 5:30 to go play   but going off early in the morning you have a little bit of advantage, less wind, greens were softer, greens were perfect.  They've been good all week, but we had one player in front of us, so greens were perfect, also pretty receptive, and they're going to firm up and    they were slick today.  I think they were quicker than they were Thursday and Friday, so I think by this afternoon they're going to get quite fast.
Q.  Getting up at 5:30 enough to get you a little bit later start tomorrow?

JIM FURYK:  I told myself getting out of bed this morning I need to play a little better because I don't want to do it tomorrow.
Q.  (Inaudible).

JIM FURYK:  No, I think a few of us thanked Euan and Charlie Howell for not making birdie on the way in.  I guess Walrus had a pretty good putt on 18 from what I heard.
Q.  (Inaudible).

JIM FURYK:  Where does this leave me at the end of the day?  6 under.
Q.  (Inaudible).

JIM FURYK:  I don't know.  It's going to depend on what the leaders do.  What was leading after yesterday, 8?  There's a bunch of guys piled up at 7.  Still quite a bit back, I think.  I think someone, at least one player will separate from the field.  It sure beats tied for 70th.  Hopefully in the top 20 or 25 somewhere where I can make a good run tomorrow and hopefully have a good finish.
Q.  Did this round come out of nowhere based on your first two days of play?

JIM FURYK:  I definitely left a lot out there because I didn't make very many.  I don't know if it comes out of nowhere.  It's not like I've been playing bad for a couple of months and just threw up a 64.  I've been playing pretty well.  I got into a little funk with my swing at Colonial and was kind of    I didn't play poorly there but I just got in a little funk with my swing, didn't like the way I was striking it and wasn't really able to work out of it the way I wanted to in my week off and just have been kind of plugging away.

Today I hit the ugliest tee shot off 1 I think I've hit all week.  I think I hit it about 30 yards right up in one of those bunkers and made a good par, and then from there on out, it just kind of clicked.  Some of the stuff I've been working on came together, and I really hit a lot of fairways, kept the ball in play and struck some    I just gave myself so many more opportunities to make putts today on the back side, and I haven't really given myself that many birdie putts all week.
Q.  (Inaudible).

JIM FURYK:  See, the problem with the comparisons, my game is as sound as it was pre injury, but everyone is going to obviously compare now to immediately before the injury, which I was playing the best I have in my entire career.  I'm not saying it's an unfair comparison, but my game is as solid as it was in '01, '02, '03.  Everyone just wants to compare it to winning the U.S. Open and finishing 5th on the Money List and making over $5 million in '03, which I feel real good about it, but that was a special year.  I think I can repeat it sometime, but those years don't come along every year.
Q.  (Inaudible).

JIM FURYK:  I think it's coming along, I really do.  I've picked up a lot of confidence since the beginning of March.  I've played well since Doral, and I was a little frustrated earlier in the year in January and February, felt like I was doing some good things and wasn't getting a lot out of it, wasn't scoring well, and since March I've had a lot of solid tournaments.
Q.  Did you get everything out of this round that you could?

JIM FURYK:  Well, I mean, there's always    I'm not going to sit here and complain, that's for sure.  I really have rarely walked off of nine holes saying I got everything out of this nine I could have, but you're right, on the back nine I did.  I couldn't have scraped one more shot out of it with where I hit it.
Q.  Would you go over the birdies?

JIM FURYK:  No. 5, I hit a 3 wood, 3 wood right of the green, pitched it up to about eight feet.

9, I hit a 3 wood and a 9 iron to about 25 feet.

Then 11, I laid up, hit a shot in there about five feet.

12, I hit a 9 iron to about 20 feet.

13, I hit a 7 iron to about ten feet.

14, I hit a 50 degree, it's like my gap wedge, to about 12, 15 feet.

I hit it in the right green side bunker in two on 15, hit a bunker shot to about five feet, and I hit it about four feet on 16 with a 6 iron, and I made some good par putts on the last two holes.

FastScripts by ASAP Sports....


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT