MCI HERITAGE
April 17, 2005
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Talk about the conditions today, and did you have a number when you went out there, some number you thought maybe you could get in a playoff in?
JIM FURYK:  I really didn't.  It wasn't until I got to the back nine -- going out early and seeing Darren get to 14 quick I think was discouraging for the rest of us as far as winning the golf tournament, but I just wanted to keep my head down.

It looked like we were all playing for about 3rd place, and then those leaders started to come back, and when I got to the back side, I was really trying to get it to -- I was 6 at one time and I was pretty happy -- if I could get to 9-under I thought there was a chance.  8-under I would have been real happy with, and I made a bogey on 14, a tough hole, and I couldn't get some putts coming in.  I had a couple of good birdie putts that didn't go in on the last couple.

I was grinding it out and trying, but the golf course was playing very firm and very fast, and it rewards hitting the ball down the middle of the fairway, but if you've got it leaking just a little bit without any heavy rough out there, the ball can pretty much -- you can get in trouble quick.
Q.  Stewart Cink came from behind last year.  How does the course play the last few holes?  Could these leaders get back to you?
JIM FURYK:  I don't see it happening to be honest, not 3.  They're telling us to stay close by, and I'm kind of laughing about that because I don't see two guys doing that.  You know, 16 is a short hole, you're going to have a wedge in your hand if you go at the pin.  It's a cute little pin on the left and you can make a bogey.

17 and 18 are always tough holes, but as well as those guys have played all week and as world class players as they are, I don't see it happening.  It was a good, solid week and I gave it a good effort, but I needed to get two, three, four more under par.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT