BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2004
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Another good round at Warwick Hills for you.
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, I'm happy with the way things went today.  I hit the ball very, very well.  I left a couple of birdie putts out there where I could have knocked a couple more in, but overall I'm in good position.

I'm not going to be the leader after two rounds.  There's a lot of low scores yesterday morning.  So those guys still have to go out and they are going to have a lot of birdies, but I like my spot.  I just need to keep making some birdies and keep firing some low numbers on the weekend.
Q.  Can you talk about the group, seemed like you guys all were  playing well?
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, we got off to a good start, all of us.  I think we were all 3 under through five today.  We had a lull in the middle of the round and all finished out well and made a couple of birdies down the stretch.  Together, we had a pretty good group score, 27  , 28 under as a group.  I had two really good guys to play with, Carlos and Kenny, are very friendly and we had a good time out there.
Q.  Just talk about when the guys are a lot of fun to be with and when the numbers start going low, do you start feeding off each other?
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, you can.  I'd rather play with some good friends and people who want to have a good time out there.  Overall, I'd rather play well.  That probably added to our enjoyment that we all played well and made a bunch of birdies and shot under par and put ourselves in position for the weekend.
Q.  Also in your enjoyment, today's big gallery seemed to be following your group.
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, we had a nice gallery out there and a lot of fans pulling for us and cheering us on.  You know, for a Friday morning, as early as it was we played, it was quite a few people out here.  I'm expecting this afternoon, as long as the weather stays nice it's going to be packed out here.
Q.  Is this the best you've felt since coming back from the injury?
JIM FURYK:   I would say so.  The U.S. Open, I didn't think what to think or how that was going to go, being the first event back.  I played well at the Western.  I wasn't really maybe in control of my ball striking as much as I would like to have been, but I scored very well and played well.

And other than that, I played the British Open which I missed by one.  I feel good about my game right now and I'm hitting the ball relatively straight and hitting some wedge shots and making a few putts here and there.  So that's what you need to do on in golf course, keep the ball in play and hit some good short irons.
Q.  Do you watch the scoreboard now just to keep track?
JIM FURYK:   I won't look at it for the rest of the day.  Just kind of wake up in the morning.  I know that when you come here and the conditions are soft, somewhere around 20 under par or more has won this golf tournament the last few years.  So you know you're going to have to fire some low numbers whether the lead is at 12 or 17 by the end of the day.

It really doesn't change my approach for the weekend.  I know I have to go out and fire two low numbers.
Q.  Did you know what happened on 16?
JIM FURYK:   I was wondering what happened, I heard kind of a drum type sound in the fairway when it went in there.  The ball hit in the cardboard but I didn't realize it was in the trash can.  Kind of interesting.  I've seen it before.
Q.  Have you ever had a shot like that?
JIM FURYK:   I've never done it but I've seen it before.
Q.  Does it feel good to get the thought process back of being in contention after the injury, being in that spot again?
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, I actually had a pretty good run at the Western.  Probably just wasn't as confident and comfortable with my game at that point.  I hung in there pretty good and finished about seventh or so.  On Saturday I made a pretty good run.  Early Saturday morning I got myself up there on the leaderboard.  I hung in there and played as hard as I could.  It's nice to be back playing.  It's nice to be back playing well and on a course I like so much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT