WGC WORLD CUP
November 16, 2003
Jim Furyk
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   It must have been frustrating for you.  You guys never made a putt?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Nothing over about four feet.  It  was a little frustrating today.  We played solid enough on the front, couldn't quite get anything to go in, and then the back nine we struggled a little bit.  It was fun week.  We didn't play the way we hoped to.  It was a fun week and we certainly look forward to the president week.


Q.   You said there was a stretch of almost eight holes where Justin did all the putting, and you were there sort of watching.

JIM FURYK:  Actually, you said that.  I would never notice stuff like that.  The way the golf course plays out, if you play your shots well, I was going to putt for the first few holes, Justin would putt 4, 5, 6.  We got through a stretch where it should have been streaks like that, but we missed a couple of greens and it ended up that Justin was putting.  I think he was actually rolling better this week so it probably served us better.  We played 17 real solid holes without putts going in, and I got loose with one tee shot and we ended up making a triple bogey on that hole.  Other than that we played well today.


Q.   Every team it seems has raved about Kiawah, the Ocean Course here. 

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Every shot is exciting.  There's always something good that can happen and something very bad that can happen.  It certainly keeps it interesting for us and you can't lay down on any one shot.


Q.   This week ends but a new one begins very quickly.  You guys are heading out of here.

JIM FURYK:  The next one starts real fast.  We leave tonight on a charter, we get to South Africa tomorrow evening, I think around 9:00 p.m.  That weeks starts very fast.  We'll be a little tired at the beginning of the week, but I think so will everyone else.


Q.   Good luck to both of you.  I know you're frustrated with the play this week, but good luck next week. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT