WGC WORLD CUP
November 13, 2003
Jim Furyk
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Talk about the round today, obviously the wind playing a big factor, kind of some tough shots out there for you guys today.

JIM FURYK:  I think there's tough golf shots on this golf course even on a calm day, even the last couple of days when the weather was perfect.  With the wind added, the difficulty increased immensely.  It was a very difficult and very tough golf course today.


Q.   You guys are four shots back now.  In this type of format, is that doable?  Are you going to be able to make that up, do you think?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Definitely, especially with two days alternate shot left.  That's where you can really make up some ground.  You can also lose some ground playing alternate shot on a golf course like this under these conditions.  Anything around par tomorrow I think would be a very good score.  Hopefully we'll play better than we did today and just go from there.


Q.   Did you gain momentum coming off 18 with that birdie?

JIM FURYK:  It made us feel a lot better.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  It makes dinner a little easier.

JIM FURYK:  It makes the numbers look a lot better than even par.


Q.   5 and 6 on the front nine with the wind, take me through those two holes.  You guys rebounded after that.

JIM FURYK:  Let's talk about our bad shots today.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  5, I hit a poor tee shot left of the green.  Jim hit a better tee shot than I did.  Just when the wind is blowing like that and it's the first time we're going back into the wind, had a difficult chip and then a putt that's downwind.  It looks like it was doing one thing, but it went another.

JIM FURYK:  I should have gotten up and down.I hit a decent pitch.  It scooted more into the wind than I thought.  I had a good putt that didn't go in and we made bogey.  The next hole we both were in pretty good position.  Justin hit a driver, 3-iron in front of the green.  I hit a driver, 3-iron to the left fringe and it took me three to get down.  I missed a 2-and-a-half-foot putt there.  It was a putt I should have knocked in and I was upset with myself.  I turned around and birdied the next hole.


Q.   That was a birdie from the side of the fairway?

JIM FURYK:  I was in the rough.  I had a good lie in the rough.  I was trying to force my second shot into the wind, trying to hit it too hard and hooked it into the rough.  It was close to the waste, but I wasn't in it.


Q.   All in all, given the conditions and everything else, being 1-under, are you fairly pleased -- not necessarily pleased, but okay with where you are?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  With the way we played, it's not such a bad score.  Nobody in the field ran away with everything.  It's playing so difficult.  Trying to keep two balls in play.  We went through a stretch of five or six holes where neither of us hit a green, yet we were hitting pretty decent shots.  Playing toward front edges and trying to keep the hole ahead of you.

JIM FURYK:  That 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 stretch was a tough stretch of holes, a lot of long irons, woods.  I didn't hit anything less than a 3-iron or 4-wood in my hand for four of those par 4 s.  It's nice to a see a par 5 where I could get a short iron into the green, and still missed the green.


Q.   A links-style course with weather conditions like this, does it maybe favor some other teams, maybe some of the European guys that play the link courses?

JIM FURYK:  My partner is a British Open champion over here and lost another playoff.  I'm taking my horse over here.


Q.   Was pace of play a frustration today.  Five and a half hour round, do you expect that in conditions like this?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  We knew it was going to be a long day. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT