EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2003
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TODD BUDNICK:  It's your best opening round here, Jim, since a 63 in '97 and you finished a T 5 there. 
You have to be happy with the way you started the tournament.
JIM FURYK:   Absolutely.  I was telling people outside that I played poorly last week and missed the cut. 
I went home and worked with my father.  I tried to work some kinks out.  I had a couple of weeks off so I was rusty last week, and I spent a lot of time out here practicing on Tuesday and Wednesday.  It paid off and I have to keep plugging away.  I saw a few things I want to work on but I'm happy with the round. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about the TPC course, how is it playing?
JIM FURYK:   It's in great shape.  I think there is a lot of guys that are 3, 4 and 5 under.  I think the course is in very good condition.  The greens are rolling very well.  The one thing about it, I think the greens are a little on the soft side, so guys can get aggressive with iron shots, get the ball a little closer.  I think that's reflecting on the scores. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Questions?
Q.  When you are playing here, do you think the TPC, is the more difficult one this year?
JIM FURYK:   Well, I will tell when you I finish tomorrow.  But I think historically the TPC course is a little tougher scoring, especially if it gets a little windy or tough conditions.  The TPC course is a quirky golf course.  There is some tough drives.  There is some cute little holes out there. You have to position the ball well.  And I think historically the stroke average, I would guess would be a little bit higher on the TPC course. 
For me I probably haven't played the Cottonwood any better than the TPC, I don't think.

Q.  Why is that, do you think?
JIM FURYK:   I don't know.  I don't know.  Maybe because I have been a little inpatient knowing the scores are lower over there, trying to force it over there, stick to a nice patient game plan.  It's kind of like when we go to Vegas, or when we go to the HOPE, when you know 25-under is going to win.  It's hard to be patient knowing I have to win 35 birdies this week to win a tournament.  The Cottonwood is not an easy golf course.  It might be a little shorter.  It might have a little less club in your hand at times.  The guys expect to shoot a lower score over there than they do on TPC.  A lot of times that can make you shoot a higher one because you're getting inpatient.  I plan on going out ther with a good game plan and sticking to it and playing a patient round of golf.

Q.  Speaking of patience, golf being a different psychological test every week, coming off missing the cut, how difficult was it for you to stay focussed?
JIM FURYK:   This is a strange game.  I won a tournament one week and missed the cut the next.  Last year missed two cuts in a row here at the Nelson and Colonial and went up and won the Memorial.  Just because you played good last week doesn't mean you are going to do it this week.  You learn that pretty quick out here.  It's a fickle game.

Q.  How much do you like these 2 events here?  You have had success, you played both of these tournaments very well, how much do you like these tournaments?
JIM FURYK:   I like both of them a lot.  Actually, I have -- this is my 10th year on TOUR, and I missed the Nelson twice.  Once because I forgot to come in which was a stupid blunder.  And Colonial is probably one of my top 3 favorite courses to play on TOUR.  I think Mr. Nelson being here, and having the opportunity  -- I just spoke with him out there on the 18th green, having that opportunity is priceless.  I commented to my caddy, it's unbelievable. 
As a player, I don't know any way to say it, if I can step back and be a kid for a while, it's really cool that he is out there.  It's nice to talk to him and it's nice for him to be here at that time tournament.  I think that reflects on this tournament.  I can't even put it into words so much.  Next week I love the golf course.  I just love those old traditional courses. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Everybody good.  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT