U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2016
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Inaudible) with a red number up?
JIM FURYK: Yeah, absolutely.  I think I was happy with 71.  It's a tough golf course.  I know the conditions are not quite as tough as what we saw Monday to Wednesday.  The rain definitely softened the golf course.
That first round was a little difficult on the greens just because they didn't have the roll out, the pace we've seen all week, or what I've seen in the past.  That made it tough for feeding balls and really getting a feel for the line.  You have that extra two, three feet of trickle.  It took me a while to get used to that.
And then within a matter of an hour, it totally switched to getting back to that speed and having to figure out -- you know, it was a back and forth.  So to get out of there in the second round and shoot 68, especially -- I guess I prepared myself, knowing I was going to go close to 36, but still that last nine is -- 27 is not bad.  The last nine is always easy to make some mental mistakes.
You could tell all three of us in my group were tired.  We made a couple loose swings.  I was just fortunate that mine didn't jump up and bite me too bad.  I was able to make a birdie down the stretch at 7 on a real tough hole and put together a good round.
Q. How arduous was yesterday and then to have to come back today?
JIM FURYK: It's a tough walk as it is.  Then you're in U.S. Open conditions and U.S. Open pressure.  So it puts a lot of mental strain on you as well.  I was worn out last night, no doubt.  I felt pretty good.  I had a spring in my step towards the finish last night, hoping we could get to the 9th tee and hit that last shot.  I think everyone in my group was trying to hustle a little bit.  We didn't want to come back out here in the morning if we didn't have to.
Once I got in the cart and drove up the hill, I could feel that adrenaline rush out.  I was worn out last night.
Q. You ready to get back out there?
JIM FURYK: I'm ready to get some rest right now.  It's probably going to be 4:00 until I play again or somewhere in that area.  Right now get my mind away from it.  Relax, rest, and at 1:00 start prepping.
Q. How are you going to pass your time between rounds?
JIM FURYK: I'm heading back home.  I've got a family and kids.  Spend time with the family really, just get away.  If I could get a nap in, that would be great.  I didn't get a lot of sleep last night.
Q. Do you think by tomorrow the course can get back to where it was earlier?  Or is there just too much rain?
JIM FURYK: To get back to where it was on Monday, Tuesday is going to be difficult, but I'm not saying it can't happen, but I see that as being pretty difficult.  The greens are still holding some moisture out there right now.  They're quick, and I expect them to get even quicker as the week goes on.  That's the defense right now.
Monday, they had this place in really, really good turn.  It felt like a Thursday or Friday at the U.S. Open on Monday, and I guess that was probably due to knowing the forecast and knowing what was coming.
We'll see.  I think we'll have a better idea when we see the conditions this afternoon and tonight.  I don't think we'll get done tonight.  If they delay tonight, I think everyone will have a better idea of what Sunday will hold.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT