BUICK OPEN
August 12, 2001
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIM FURYK:  Yeah, I am happy and pleased with the way I played.  Really the difference for me to really give Kenny a run today was the front nine shooting even par.  I struck the ball solidly; gave myself some opportunities, but I didn't get the ball up-and-down on the par 5s - when I had a wedge in my hand, I didn't seem to get the ball close.  And when I hit some good iron shots didn't make the putts and just -- I just didn't do the things you need to do to score on the front.  On the backside I just kind of turned my day around.  Hit it stiff on 10 and kind of got off to the races on those short holes on 10 and  -- 12, 13, 14, and seemed like the back side was -- didn't hit it any better, didn't play that much better but I scored got the ball in the hole, got some wedges close, made some putts, ended up shooting 30 on the back.  That really turned my day around and the tournament around for me was the back side there. 
 
Q.  Did you look at a leader board?
 
JIM FURYK: Not too much early.  But late in the day once I birdied 12, 13, 14, I couldn't wait to see a leader board.  I was looking around and there wasn't one on 14th green, and while I was standing on the 15th green you can't see it because it is tucked in behind the trees.  So I was anxious to see how Kenny was playing and where he was at.  I knew he was 22 or 23 going into all those short holes and he could have really pulled away or if he just made some pars there I knew I would have been pretty close.  But I missed about a 12-footer on 15 and that actually would have probably cut me to maybe 1 at that point or close to it.  That would have put a little more pressure on him.  Missed that putt, but the birdies at 16, 17 he just played  -- he played solidly again on the way in.  He must have made -- birdied 3 of the last 5 or so, something like that.  He birdied at least two of the last four. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible) No. 8 on the Ryder Cup list. Were you aware of that?
 
JIM FURYK: Yeah, I have been told that a few times already.  It's amazing how the focus of my entire week has been talking about the Ryder Cup, whether it is other players coming up and wishing me well.  I heard it from the gallery a minimum of once a hole today.  We talked about it in here almost every day.  It's kind of  been tough not to put it out of my mind.  So it is nice to get some points and jump up the ladder a little bit.  I know it is still conceivable that if three guys play well next week, the right three guys, I could get knocked out.  But I am a heck of a lot happier with 8th than I am with 11th.  It's a good feeling.  It is a good consolation.  Second place is never a great place  -- it's a good spot to finish in, but it always leaves you a little empty that you got so close.  Earning some points and getting a little bit more in a solid position for the Ryder Cup is definitely a good consolation. 
 
Q.  How far was the putt on 17?
 
JIM FURYK: A long way.  (Laughter)  I will give it 50 feet at least.  And it was humming when it went in.  At that point I knew I was in pretty good shape to have a good finish, and I knew I was a couple of back from Kenny and I am thinking two birdies and I have a shot at it.  I didn't know what he was doing at 16, but I wanted to try to birdie 17, 18 or at least make him finish the tournament make one birdie, and make sure that if he makes bogey or something coming in, I could be tied and you know, I did the best I could.  The drive got just a little right on 18 and didn't truly give me a chance, but, I tried hard.  I really  -- the back side was solid.  I missed two -- 15-footer and about a 12-footer at 11 and 15 and then 18, so, I birdied every other hole and front nine is where I could have maybe made a little bit more of a charge, but still 66 was a good score.  
 
Q.  What did you think about 17, both when you were playing it and when you were at the holes around it and you could kind of hear it?
 
JIM FURYK: What do you mean by that?  
 
Q.  The crowd at 17.
 
JIM FURYK: Well, you can definitely hear it all over the golf course.  One of the things that I guess was pleasant when we got to 17 the crowd was extremely rowdy, at least one, maybe two people got thrown out and got serenaded for it.  But what I was kind of happy to see when it was time to putt, when both Justin and I putted, took a little while for them to calm down after I made my putt but once they did they were very quiet while we were playing, so I guess it's good to see you know, it's good to see people enthusiastic.  I think obviously the people that are getting tossed, maybe doesn't reflect real well on the tournament, but you know, at least they did a good job of getting rid of the people that were whatever they were doing.  As long as they treated the players fine and were polite.  I heard a couple of guys get booed for leaving it short when I was on some other holes.  I don't know if there's any room for that.  If they are sounding while you are playing and not really razzing the guys, but cheering the good shots, then I don't mind if it's really loud and boisterous.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT