DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 3, 2000
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JIM FURYK: I am happy with the position. Great shape for the weekend and I had a pretty
good round today. I think I hit a few sloppy shots middle of the round, but I managed to
get the ball in the hole and make some pars out of some tough spots and really I had a
pretty solid day; wasn't quite as good as yesterday, but 67 is still a good score. 
 
Q. What do you like about playing this event?
 
 JIM FURYK: The weather right now. (laughs) After kind of a cold, wet West Coast it is
nice to -- you couldn't beat this weather right now. Perfect temperature, no wind, and
again, that is probably one of the reasons you are seeing a lot of low scores, perfect
conditions out there for scoring. But I like the golf course. I always have. When I first
came on Tour in 1994 I had a chance -- I was the last guy to get in the field here out of
Q-School. I just really liked the golf course at the time. Then it had changed a little
bit, the past few years and now it seems to be back closer to what it was when I started
on Tour in 1994, 1995 and I like the golf course. I think it is -- I don't know if it's
the perfect course or anything for my game, but I think it is a good solid test. I like a
lot of Dick Wilson's work. I like La Costa a lot and the layout there and I like the
layout here. 
 
Q. If someone really rolling out here and if conditions stay like this, is 59 out of
the question?
 
 JIM FURYK: Yes. How is that? I think the odds are with me when I say that. 
 
Q. Are you participating in that fishing tournament going on?
 
 JIM FURYK: I haven't, no. No, I didn't bring much equipment down. I like to fish but I
am not sure I will. I might just relax. When does it end, tomorrow? 
 
Q. Today at 6?
 
 JIM FURYK: It's not going to happen. 
 
 JIM FURYK: Birdied the first hole, knocked it in the left green-side bunker in 2 and
hit a good bunker shot to about six feet, made that. I made a good par on 4, in red there.
No. 5 was the next birdie. Hit it in the front right green-side bunker in two and I holed
it from the bunker there. So it was a good boost. 
 
 JIM FURYK: Probably about, oh, between 10 and 15 yards probably. I was on the front
right, hit it in the front right bunker trying to squeeze it in there a little bit; hit a
great bunker shot. Fortunate it went in. I birdied No. 8, hit driver in the right rough;
had to lay up, hit sand wedge to about three feet, made that for birdie. Then 13, I hit
3-iron in the green about -- it was pretty far, 30, 35 feet and knocked that in for
birdie. Missed a little one for birdie on 16 and birdied 18 again. Hit driver and a 7-iron
to about ten feet; made that for birdie. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT