WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 9, 2015
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jim, tied for the lead beginning this final round.  How do you assess this play out here on Sunday?JIM FURYK: I hit the ball poorly for the last 27 holes.  I did the best I could to manage yesterday on the back nine even par. Today I had some opportunities, but really, middle of the round, I hit it all over the place.  Look back at 8, 9, 10, 12, I hit some really loose shots. I did the best I could.  I had some opportunities on 14 -- say, 13, 14, 15, couldn't get some putts to fall and lost some momentum.  But I didn't hit the ball well enough really this weekend. I didn't hit the ball -- go back to our interviews Thursday and Friday, and I wasn't happy with my ball striking.  I covered a lot of it up with putting, and I wasn't able to do that over the weekend.Q. You leave this week with momentum.  What do you take to Whistling Straits?JIM FURYK: I have some work to do.  I'm not driving the ball near well enough.  It's not a golf course that I feel comfortable on.  And last time there, I was playing well.  I had a really interesting ruling, it took about seven holes to actually get the ruling.  I was maybe a couple back and then fell back to maybe 40th.  I lost my composure. So it's not a place I'm comfortable, to be honest with you.  I spent a lot of my summer -- this is the one course I think I played all summer where I felt good about the golf course and comfortable and felt like it suited my game.Q. It never is fun to do interviews like this, but Jim Furyk gracious enough to stop by and talk about Sunday.  You've come close a lot of times.  What was this one like?JIM FURYK: I really -- I was close early in the round, but I just didn't hit the ball very well.  The last 27 holes, I'll go out and say, not only didn't I hit it well, I hit the ball very poorly the last 27 holes.  It was really the best I could do to get in at even par yesterday on the back nine. Today I kind of gutted it out.  Could have made a few more putts.  But if we go back in a lot of the interviews I was doing on Thursday and Friday, I was saying I was missing too many fairways, made too many poor swings.  I really never did figure it out.  I was covering up with putts early in the week.  And under the gun, it got me a little worse on the weekend.  We've got some work to do. I wasn't happy, to be honest with you, the way I hit the ball in Canada either.  Somehow finished fourth.  I wasn't happy about it here, so I finished third.  I can take some good out of it that I'm playing well, I'm scoring, I'm getting the ball in the hole, but I need to hit more fairways and green and give myself more looks.Q. How frustrating is it when you're out on the golf course and you know something isn't right with your swing, but you've just got to keep grinding?JIM FURYK: It's really frustrating Sunday morning at 8:00 a.m.  When it's Sunday afternoon at 2:00, you've got to get over it and gut it out.  Hey, look, I've got an opportunity to win a golf tournament.  Just stay patient.  Try to make some decent swings.  Hope you catch something, maybe a little flash or something that reminds you of the past, and you work your way out of it and start hitting some good shots. I had a chance to win the golf tournament today.  I really wasn't frustrated.  I was just trying to figure it out.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT