WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2015
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jim, not the finish you wanted, but great opening round.  Six birdies on a day where birdies were not easy to find.  Everything clicking well out there?JIM FURYK: You know what, I'm not sure.  I gave myself some opportunities, that's for sure.  I hit some really good iron shots in close, like on No. 5, where I had a couple of kick-ins for some short birdie putts. But also, I got a little fortunate today.  I missed a couple of fairways.  I made birdie on 1 out of the rough.  Made a bunch of pars out of the rough today.  Those are holes where I kind of kept the round going, but I gave myself some opportunities to knock some putts on.Q. We've heard this course described as straightforward, solid, tests all aspects of one's game.  What does it do for you?  Why do you have so much success around here?  Why such a great scoring record, so to speak, at Firestone Country Club South?JIM FURYK: I've had hit and misses here, but I've definitely had my share of good years.  It reminds me of golf courses I grew up on.  I grew up in the state of Pennsylvania, not that far from here.  It's an old style golf course, runs kind of back and forth.  Everything's right in front of you.  There's not a lot of blind shots. I just feel like I know where I'm supposed to put the ball.  It's a matter of being able to do it.  The years I've played well, I feel like I'm on top of my game.  I'm always comfortable here, but if you don't hit some golf shots, this place will tear you up and those are the years you don't play as well.Q. More of the same for the next few days?JIM FURYK: I hope so.  I hope the weather stays about the same.  I've got a few things I really want to work on on my golf swing.  I think I was probably on TV most of that back nine.  I'm hoping my dad was watching.  I've got a couple of questions.  I made a few bad swings, a few loose swings on that back side, and would like to ask for some help.Q. Dad, keep the line clear.  Great opening round.JIM FURYK: Thanks.Q. What's your assessment of how things played out here?JIM FURYK: I feel like I scored pretty well.  I missed some fairways, made some good pars out of the rough.  Did hit enough good shots and gave myself enough opportunities.  Made some putts, but I did make six birdies here today.  A good solid round, a good solid start.  I'm going to tighten things up.Q. Twenty rounds in the 60s here the past ten years, nine top 10 finishes.  What is it about this place that seemingly brings out good golf in you?JIM FURYK: I'm comfortable here.  I've always liked this golf course.  I've always -- it's one of my favorites.  It's in the top 5 for me.  It reminds me of home.  It reminds me of where I grew up in Pennsylvania and the style of golf course, kind of going back and forth, straightforward, not a lot of blind shots.  It's a difficult golf course, but you have to drive it well.  When I'm hitting the ball well and driving the ball well here, I feel like I have a chance.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT