U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2015
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Variables out here on this golf course.  When you are in a practice round --  JIM FURYK: I think that's been overblown.  I think I heard that from some players that came here and obviously the Mike Davis quote about two practice rounds and your caddie walking, and then some players that came here early and they played a round and said, wow, it's going to be difficult to get to know. I think a lot of that is overblown.  I don't feel like I've made a lot of mistakes this week because of lack of preparation.  I feel like really haven't been on top of my game at times, and that's cost me some shots.  I made some silly errors. At first look, the golf course, it definitely blows your mind.  It definitely takes you this way.  You look at it and it takes you out.  You start trying to think of all the variables. Once you play it two or three times, you can kind of bring everything back in and realize the small areas that you are trying to hit the ball to.  Once you get to know the greens a little bit and where things funnel from and to, what to avoid, what you can use, it really -- three rounds around here and I really feel like you can get a pretty good feel for what you want to do and what you don't.  It's just not a place where -- you always in a golf tournament have to really pick and choose the places where you want to be aggressive, but U.S. Opens don't give you a lot of places to be aggressive. This one, there's a couple of places you can just because of the slopes and hills.  You can overuse them and get yourself in trouble.  There's some more variables out there.  I think the idea that it is big, it is vast, there is a lot to learn but you can narrow the scope down pretty quickly.   Q.  In general, does the quality of a leaderboard at a major reflect the quality of the course?  JIM FURYK: I don't know.  I never spent any time thinking about that.  I think that is -- quotes like that, if Tiger wins when he's in his prime, then it's a reflection of a great course; and if a guy that's ranked 150th in the world wins, it's not.  It's a real slap in the face to a guy that might not be ranked that well but had a good week and played well.  It's not something that I really -- it's not my job to bother to think about that, nor am I going to.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT