WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 1, 2015
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).  
JIM FURYK:   We had a little conversation.   I said, George, I'm really rooting hard for you.   I realize that it's not coming back my way.   I wished him luck.  
It was really awkward this morning with the four of us all 1 & 1, every one of us needed to win our match but was also dependent on what happened on the other side.   Kind of an awkward feeling.   
I didn't watch their match at all day, never looked up at the board.   Just tried to worry what Martin and I were doing.  
   
 Q.   What about that game with Martin?  
JIM FURYK:   You know what, be both played a really solid round of golf.   We were probably 5 or 6‑under par, both of us.   Martin missed a 3‑footer on the second hole, gave him a hole back.   I missed a 3‑footer on the 18th, gave him a hole back.   Other than that, it was a pretty square match.   We both played solid.   
I had my opportunities to close it out.   Once I made the birdie at 14 and went 2‑up, I had my opportunities and I wasn't able to make the birdie at 16 and 17.   Low and behold, he knocks in a 15‑footer at 17 to keep the match going.   Again, I know if I birdie 18, I'm probably going to win.   I missed a 3‑footer.   I was disappointed in myself.   
The highlight really for me was probably the up‑and‑down at 1, the 19th hole.   That was probably the one I probably get up and down 30 percent of the time and I was able to get it up there.  
   
 Q.   You won at Hilton Head.   How significant was that victory?   
JIM FURYK:   I think it was significant.   I mean, honestly, I had been disappointed in myself.   I had frustrated, putting a lot of pressure on myself to kind of close out a tournament.   It wasn't really a relief.   It was just a moment of joy for me.   
Then to go home and be able to share it with family and friends at our charity event, it was a phenomenal feeling and a great three days.   
I think it honestly helped in these matches here where I could lean back on it.   Ten days ago I was knocking in these putts.   Dig deep and do it again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT