WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 30, 2015
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JIM FURYK:   It was a little bit my fault, too.   I made‑‑ he birdied 1 and 2, and I had my chances.   I had an 8‑footer on 1.   Burned the edge on 2.   He was able to make a 6‑footer. 
I was in the driver's seat on 3 and he flipped it over.   50 yards from the pin, short right, kind of one of these. 
Got it up there six feet and I hit my bunker shot seven feet.   Missed it, he makes. 
I hooked it up against the fence on 4, so I handed him a hole.
We birdied 6.   Gave me back at 7.   We kind of flip flopped.   I made too many mistakes where I had a chance to put some heat on him.   I just made too many mistakes where ‑‑ the bogey at 8, I give up a hole.   I think I bogeyed 9 too to give up a hole.   So those two stung.   3 and 4 stung. 
You go to the back nine, I birdied ‑‑ I win 10, I birdie 11.   I've got good birdie putts at 12 and 13.   Great putt at 12, didn't go. 
13, I started a little too far right. 
14, I hung my drive and should have been able to get that ball up‑and‑down, didn't hit a good putt.   4‑down, come in here and I get caught in between clubs and try to beat the shit out of a 4‑iron and got trapped in behind me and hooked it.   Put it in a place where that hole has got the thickest rough on the golf course. 
I had my chances.   As bad as I played, I had my chances to get back in the match and put a lot of pressure on him.   Every time I got close enough, I made too many mistakes.

Q.   Were you between 4 and 5?   5 and 6? 
JIM FURYK:   Well, I'd love to tell you I was.   It was a little too far for my 4‑iron and too short for my hybrid.   It was like‑‑ making me feel bad, Alex.   216 into the wind.

Q.   You hit a 5, right? 
JIM FURYK:   Hit a 4‑iron.   Tried to hit it too hard.

Q.   Is there a point during this match where you said now I just have to‑‑ I know it's match play, it's not stroke play, now I just have to aim at pins and try to‑‑
JIM FURYK:   No.   I felt like if I could‑‑ my goal was to shoot 4‑ or 5‑under on the back.   I kind of was on my way, to be honest with you.   Like I said, I made too many mistakes.   The bogey at 14 and 17.   Made three birdies in there, and I missed some good birdie putts along the way.   I played well enough to do it.   I just didn't get the ball in the hole.

Q.   The next thing is obviously in the old format, you are going home.   New format, I think the guy that you beat yesterday is actually winning against his competitor, so comes down to tomorrow.   I don't personally understand what happens if you win and somebody else wins, if you are both 2 & 1 what happens.   Do you understand? 
JIM FURYK:   I believe if two guys are 2 & 1, the head‑to‑head is the tie breaker.   In that case, let's say he wins tomorrow and I win tomorrow, he advances because we are both 2 & 1 and he wins the head‑to‑head. 
Let's say he were to lose tomorrow and I win then that would be him, as well.   I would win the 2 & 1 battle.   All depends on what happens behind us.   I have to win tomorrow and I need help.

Q.   Do you look over your shoulder at all tomorrow? 
JIM FURYK:   No.   Just go play and see what happens.   Got a tough match.   Kaymer is a tough match.   If he loses like I did, we'll both be kind of chomping at the bit to get out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT