RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2015
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You've played a lot of rounds on this golf course.   You've seen this course in tough conditions, but today wasn't one of those days.   How gettable was this golf course?   And how well do you think you performed out there today?  
JIM FURYK:   I had a great ball‑striking day.   You know, I did make some putts.   The putter was hot early; kind of cooled off different parts of the round.   I had a lot more opportunities out there.   But I felt like I hit a bunch of good putts today.   
The golf course is soft with the rain over the week.   And rarely do you see this little wind at Harbour Town.   So I was looking at the weather this morning, and there was periods tonight where the wind will be like two miles an hour.   It's calm.   I've never seen that before.   
Definitely the scores are low.   I know the course record was tied today.   Jordan shot 62.   There were a bunch of 64, 65.   It's not what you normally see here.   The wind is part of the defense and it just laid down for us.  
   
 Q.   You have a great foundation in North Florida, and you and Tabitha have a wonderful event coming up Sunday and Monday in the Jacksonville area.   You're out here competing, but are you also kind of tinkering with what's going on or what's about to happen Sunday and Monday, making sure it's smooth?  
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, I've been laying in bed in the afternoons and at night, with the computer in front of me and the phone, texting and e‑mailing, trying help out Tabitha a little bit.   She's doing the brunt of the work, our friends and family at home.   I'm trying to help out as much as I can, and kind of organize everyone here in the event that's going to be down there.   Then head on to New Orleans.   So I'm doing the best to help out, but it's very small compared to the others.       
   
 Q.   Jim, great golfing today.   Iron play was spectacular.   7‑under, 64.   But I guess you had to shoot a number like that with the way the course was set up.   
JIM FURYK:   Well, without the wind, it didn't have as much defense.   It's also pretty soft from the rain earlier in the week.   So the scores are going to be really low this week.   It's hard to actually focus with all this screaming behind me.  
My game was good today.   I really hit the ball well.   Ball‑striking was super.   I gave myself a lot of opportunities and I came right out of the chute birdieing the first three.   I didn't make any birdies yesterday; 18 pars.   It was nice to make eight of them today and kind of turn it away.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, your iron play, I don't think you had a putt longer than 15 feet until the 12th hole.   You were just spot on going at the flags.   
JIM FURYK:   And to be honest with you, the iron I hit on 12 is one of the best I hit all day.   It just came up a little long.   I felt good about my game.   It was interesting, I had a little bit of a bad warmup session.   I wasn't real comfortable going to 1.   Thought about it for a while on the putting green, and kind of came up with something there, and kind of put it to use on the golf course today.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the weekend?   Obviously you're in the mix.   We had some really low rounds this afternoon.   And the weather is supposed to be pretty calm tomorrow.   
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, I saw there's a chance of rain.   I haven't seen a report in about the last eight hours, but chance of rain tomorrow.   And then I saw big percentage of thunderstorms on Sunday.   So hopefully it lays down.   It was supposed to rain this afternoon as well, but it missed it.   So hopefully that will keep up.  
   
 Q.   You bounced back after even par yesterday.   
JIM FURYK:   Yeah, yesterday wasn't I bad round.   It was windy out here.   Conditions were tough.   I didn't particularly hit the ball as well as I would have liked, but I kind of scrapped it out.   I made 18 pars.   I got the ball up and down quite a bit and just a totally different day today.   Soft conditions again but no wind, which we're getting eaten by the no-see-'ems because there's no wind.   
I've never seen scoring this low at Harbour Town.   But without the wind some of the defense was gone, and it was a good day to be aggressive.   I hit the ball beautifully, gave myself a lot of opportunities, and was able to knock some putts in.  
   
 Q.   One of your favorite courses, is all about hitting the fairways, right?  
JIM FURYK:   It really is.   I did a good job today, a better job today of putting the ball in the fairway or if I was in the rough, it was on the correct side of the fairway, where it wasn't impeded by trees.   So I did a good job putting the ball in play and that set up the iron play.  
   
 Q.   Help us get inside your head a little bit.   When you guys know that the wind is going to be down, you see the scores that are posted early, and you know the weather is going to stay that way.   When you're preparing for your round, do you have a number in mind?   Obviously you're aggressive, but do you have‑‑  
JIM FURYK:   No, you just go out‑‑ no, not really, other than to keep doing the same things that you can.   You have to get out there, see what the course is yielding.   I really didn't look at scores this morning.   I saw Jordan shot 62.   Past that I didn't see the scores.   It looked like that cut line before I went out was actually going the other way, getting closer to even par rather than going to 2‑over.   
I knew the scoring would be good.   You still have to go out and just kind of see what the course gives you, be patient.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT