AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 15, 2015
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JIM FURYK:   For the first 11 holes today I hit two bad shots and was 3‑over par.   So the fact that I just didn't score and get the ball in the hole and a stupid 3‑putt at 11 trying to kind of force the first putt.   
10 ‑‑ I was 3‑over through 10 and really had only hit two bad shots.   
I hit a little errant shot on 6 to the right and I hit a bad drive on 9.   Past that, honestly, I hit the ball really well.   I had a lot of opportunities, I had good chances, good looks for birdie.   
I just couldn't find the hole.   I was getting a little flustered out there.   Then towards the end when I had to force the issue a little bit, got a little impatient and made a few more bad swings.   
But I couldn't hit two better shots at 1.   
I couldn't hit two better shots at 2 and I probably couldn't have hit two better shots at 3.   
The same with 4.   
And I had basically four good birdie putts and didn't get the ball up‑and‑down at 2 and the 3‑wood went through the green and didn't make any of the putts.   I was even par there.   
Then missed the green just a little to the left on 5.   And lipped the putt out and all of a sudden I'm 1‑over and kind of behind the eight ball.   
Then hit stiff at 7 and 8 and didn't make either one and I mean, I drove it perfect at 10 and was in a divot.   And from the divot, hit it right over the pin and 20 feet behind it.   One of my better swings of the day and 3‑putted.   
So it just seemed to just steamroll from there.   From there on out, I birdied 11 and I made a few weak swings on the way in.   I think trying a little too hard, steering it a little bit.   
18 kind of summed it all up.   I hit ‑‑ got lucky that the drive was all right.   But then hit probably the best shot of the day, a hybrid in there about 12 feet and hit a good putt and it went over the left edge and kind of reminded me of the rest of the day.   
So, I'm not good ‑‑ not good enough.   I think I only made two birdies today and I hit the ball way better than that.   
So, I hit ‑‑ I did hit a few poor putts.   I hit a lot of good putts today.   I really did.   I hit putts solid, they were rolling end over end.   
I had a couple bad reads and just a couple burned edges and it could have been a much different day.   But the start really stung and it was hard to climb out of.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT