THE RYDER CUP
September 27, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You guys looked good from the very start with the birdie on 1, it was your session and unbelievable putting?JIM FURYK: Yeah, I think that's really what we both did better.  We were able to knock in a bunch of putts.  We each birdied 1 and 2.  I hit it in there about the same distance as Jamie on 3 and I made the putt. There was times when one of us was out of our hole, but the other guy made a 5- or 6-footer for par.  And we just kind of ham-and-egged it pretty good on the front nine and made a bunch of putts.Q. You were 6-under?JIM FURYK: Hunter played exceptional on the back as well.  I really didn't have to do much, just kind of cracked the whip and followed him home. The key hole for us, he made it up there about 12 feet on 14 and then knocked in the eagle putt.  It was a lot of fun.Q. You also made that per terrific putt on 9, I believe it was, for the halve.  Tell me about the length of that and the break just a little bit.JIM FURYK: Yeah, it was slinging pretty good.  Probably had a good foot and a half of break.  It was probably about 25-footer.  I drove it in trouble there and had to wedge it out, hit 5-iron into my third shot.  I was definitely good to keep the momentum and keep the tee. Then I made about a 6-footer on 13 for par as well.  Snuck one in the left side there that again kept us up three.  Every time they put the pressure on us, we were able to knock in a crucial little par putt, and then we answered all the birdies and just ran out of -- ran out to a good lead and were able to maintain and hold them off with some good putting.Q. Does that happen in match play sometimes where one guy makes it and you feed off the other?JIM FURYK: It was nice.  When we had two puts, it always seem like the first guy made it.  We both had good birdie putts on 1 and Hunter knocked his in. We both had good birdie looks at 7, Hunter knocked his in. We both had looks a 9, I knocked it in. We both had looks at 11, he knocked it in. It was always the first guy, too.Q. Obviously must give you confidence heading into foursomes this afternoon?JIM FURYK: I'm looking forward to it.  I'm anxious to play with Hunter.  I think our games are clicking pretty well


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT