TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 14, 2014
Jim Furyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jim, not what you had in mind, but a pretty strong week all in all?  
JIM FURYK:   It was a good week, good solid day.   Really it was nice to get off to that fast start birdieing 2 and 3.   
Almost knocked one in at 4.   
Kind of mellowed through the middle of round and started hitting some good shots.   Couldn't get a putt to drop on 14 and almost chipped it in for eagle on 15.   
I felt like I played well.   Kind of got fooled a little bit on 17.   I think in hindsight, we probably had the wrong club and I actually didn't make a very good swing.   There's not much that went right on that shot.   I hit a good pitch, kind of stuck in the fringe a little bit on me, hit a good putt, it didn't go in.   
Then I was forced to make a shot at 18 and obviously ran it‑‑ actually had it on a pretty good line.   If I hit it the right speed, it would have been a little more exciting.  
   
 Q.   When you were on 17, did you hear the noise?  
JIM FURYK:   I heard a roar and I heard someone say ice water.   So I kind of assumed that Billy knocked in a par putt.   We had a pretty good idea of‑‑ I assumed.   I had a pretty good feeling we knew what was going on, to be honest with you, that I was one back.   Fluff told me he had birdied 15 and we were one down when we were walking up 17.   So I had a good idea where we were at.   
I got trapped in between clubs a little bit on 17.   6‑iron was a little too much.   I don't think 7‑iron was enough.   I was kind of trying to force the 7 and got trapped in behind me a little bit.   So not a very good swing.   Actually where it came down it probably‑‑ I probably‑‑ it wasn't the right club either.   
So disappointed in that, but the rest of the day played really well.   I couldn't get that hybrid to really cut on 18 like I wanted to, and you know, like I said, just was left trying to force the putt to go in.  
   
 Q.   Sometimes they do, sometimes they don't.   
JIM FURYK:   Yeah.   I wish I hit a little better speed.   
   
 Q.   Looking forward to the Ryder Cup?  
JIM FURYK:   Yeah.   Looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Do you have anybody that you're slated to partner with for that?  
JIM FURYK:   I haven't spoken yet with Tom.   Everyone's asked me every day.   I'm sure he wasn't going to bother me on Saturday night.   But I'm guessing we'll talk about that this week.   When we land and arrive over there in Scotland, we'll be ready to go.  
   
 Q.   How much does this one hurt compared to some of the other close ones?  
JIM FURYK:   I think Canada probably was the worst because I was in control of the tournament.   Starting Sunday I was in control of the tournament all day and got chased down at the end.   
The other three seconds, you know, were good efforts.   65, 66 on Sunday at Wells Fargo and the PLAYERS.   This one, Billy was out ahead.   I was trying to chase him down all day.   I just couldn't make enough birdies.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT