U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 2019
Jaye Marie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Good evening.  Here with Jaye Marie Green, shot a 3 under today.  Just talk us through your round a little bit.   
JAYE MARIE GREEN: It was a good day.  I had six birdies.  I didn't birdie any of the par 5s, which I could reach, so that was a little frustrating.  My putter got hot in the middle of the round, so that felt good.  It felt good to feel like wherever you hit it on the green, you could make the putt.   
THE MODERATOR: Overall reaction, just to the course this week and how it suits your game?   
JAYE MARIE GREEN: I think it's a very patient golf course.  You can't really go for pins.  You've got to hit fairways.  It's an advantage to be long.  So I think it suits me because I could reach all the par 5s, which I didn't take advantage of today.   
I love this place.  I love how you have to play so patient, and you can really only take one shot at a time.   
 Q.  Given your results the last four events haven't been all that great, what have you found in your game this week that has helped you thrive?  
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Well, the last cut I made was at a Major, so I think I was just really reflecting on that and try to remember what I was doing then, and that was staying patient, not getting ahead of myself.   
I feel like I kind of knew this week.  I just felt this calmness where I haven't felt that in a long time.  I just kind of felt like knowing -- you've got to know your game is good enough to play well in Majors.  Something about Majors helps me stay calm and patient.  So I think that's what has done it.   
 Q.  Jay Marie, your brother seems like he gave you a really nice tip on the 8th hole on Thursday.  
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Oh, yeah.   
 Q.  You LOOK so beautiful over the balls putting this week.  What's your take on how that's played out for you on the greens?  
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Oh, yeah, we talked about it on No. 8 today, actually.  I go, hey, remember when you told me what you told me here?   
He told me that Brooks Koepka was talking about how he putts the same as when he was younger.  And my brother said, Jaye, you don't even look like you putting.  I'm like, okay, what did I used to do?  So he kind of told me, and that just freed me up because under the gun you've got to go to what you know, and what I know is how I was when I was younger.  So I just kind of tried to recreate that, and it's helped a lot.  I at least feel better over the putter, because I had the shakes so bad the first day.   
 Q.  Jaye, we saw you give your brother a pinch on the cheek on 16 after a good shot.  What's that like, having your brother as your caddie, and how big has he been to your performance this week?  
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Oh, yeah, I trust him more than anyone in the world on the golf course.  I don't know about off the golf course.  I gave him that pinch on the cheek because I wanted to hit a certain shot, and he goes, just trust me on this.  I'm like, all right, fine.  Because I knew if I trusted him and it turned out bad, I could blame him.  It turned out to be in like three feet.  I'm like, "Thank you.  You're the best."   
He helps keep me so calm.  He's my best friend off the golf course, so to have that by your side the whole way, especially on such a long day today, we just had a blast, honestly.   
 Q.  Jaye Marie, how would you describe your work ethic in the sense that you've been out here for a few years now, haven't won, haven't had really a lot of high finishes yet.  You just keep plugging away.  
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Yeah.  I've been more motivated these last two years than I ever have.  I think at the beginning, I was just so happy to be out on tour.  And all of a sudden, I'm like, this isn't good enough.  I want to win now.  What can I do to win?   
I've just been grinding as hard as I can.  When I'm home, I practice for like six hours a day, and I know that if I don't, I know someone else is.   
So it helps me feel better to know I'm putting in the work, so I know, when I sleep at night, there's nothing more I could have done.   
 Q.  If I could just follow up, how do you think you'll feel tomorrow?  It will be a position that's unfamiliar to you.  
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Yeah.  I think the only way you learn is to be in the position.  I've been close to this -- who am I kidding?  I've never been this close in a Major before.  I've had good finishes at Majors, but I think I'll be in the second to last group or -- I'm not really sure what that looks like.   
Like I said before, I felt this calmness that I've never felt before.  I think God's blessed me with that because I'm usually a nervous wreck sometimes.   
But I just feel -- I feel calm.  I feel like my game plan has been working, so I'm not going to change it.  And if that's what's good enough to get it done tomorrow, so be it.  Either way, I get another notch in the belt of what it's like now to be in this position.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  Best of luck tomorrow.   
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT