KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2018
Jaye Marie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you sum up your day for us?
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Yeah.  I played pretty solid.  I didn't miss very many greens, and when I did, I got them up-and-down.  And then every time I gave myself a good look at birdie, I was making them, so that was good.  The putter was working for sure.
Q. How do you like this setup here?
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Oh, I love majors because it doesn't make you feel like you have to birdie so many holes, you know?  It makes you feel like you can be kind of chill and play and let the birdies come to you, whereas other tournaments, like when 25 under wins, it's a little stressful.  I like more of the grind, where you can make a bogey every now and then and it's okay.
Q. How about this particular course, Kemper Lakes?
JAYE MARIE GREEN: I love it.  I kind of like it, too, since it rained.  I think it's going to be a different golf course this weekend just because it's so soft right now.  But that leaves you with -- I've had so many 6-irons and more in today, and that usually doesn't happen because I hit it a little longer than the average, so it was kind of interesting having some 4-irons in and 5s and 6s.
Q. You probably like that then because being a longer hitter you probably like that?
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Yeah, definitely, because one of the par-3s was like 205 with a back tucked pin, and I just hit a 4-iron right in there and it landed soft.  The other girls are hitting hybrids and stuff.  But it's kind of cool because I like courses where you're hitting a lot of different clubs and shots in your bag, and that's what it's like here at Kemper Lakes for sure.
Q. Tell us about kind of where your game is at and how it's evolved and how you feel about it now.
JAYE MARIE GREEN: I feel like this year has been pretty good.  I just like -- it's not that I haven't been finishing well.  I mean, these girls out here are so good that you have to like keep the pedal down.  You can't shoot 5-under, and then if you shoot even tomorrow you're going to get passed by everyone.  So it's kind of learning how to keep coming back the next day and trying to do the same thing, which I think is something you only learn by being in position.
Q. Anything else that you've felt good about the progress in your game to kind of get you ready here?
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Yeah, my ball-striking has been really good for weeks now, and so it's nice always giving yourself looks, but I wasn't really capitalizing making the putts, and I feel really good about my putting right now, which is everything.
Q. You had a long putt on 9 to finish?
JAYE MARIE GREEN: It was like 18 feet.  Not too long.  15, 18 feet.
Q. Do you feel like you're kind of poised to make another step, or is your game falling into places where you feel like that?
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Yeah, I do, because I am kind of in a -- golf is so, everyone knows, mental, and I kind of feel like I'm in a good mental spot in life right now where I kind of woke up this morning, and I'm like, I care, but like I really don't care, and that's when I play my best.  When you try so hard -- I learned kind of just to let go, and whatever happens.  Like today I tried to lay up on a par-5 and chunk pulled it in the water.  I was like, all right, let's just drop it and move on, and I ended up making par, when it could have easily been a double or triple, no doubt.
Q. What hole was that?
JAYE MARIE GREEN: That was like my 16th hole, but really No. 7.
Q. What do you think made this change in perspective for you?  Did you just decide something?
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Well, we've been having a little bit of family troubles at home, and I've been kind of relying on my faith for that.  So I've been doing like devotions in the morning.  It just kind of puts me in a good frame of mind where it's like, golf is great, but there is a bigger picture.  Like I have family at home going through stuff, so it's like, golf is a big deal and it's definitely my No. 1 thing I want to do well, but there's definitely life outside golf.
Q. I don't want to push into a private area, but someone will hear that and will just be curious.  Is there anything else you can say about --
JAYE MARIE GREEN: Just things with family.  It's nothing really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT