UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 10, 2015
DeShone Kizer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 NAVY - 24
  NOTRE DAME - 41 
  
DESHONE KIZER: It's huge for our offense, I tried to get a pattern going and get some momentum going and get things back on the right path. When we're winning, we're playing good football and as offense we need the confidence to go from week‑to‑week.   
   
 Q. You got down early. Did you think, here we go again?  
DESHONE KIZER: Not really. We knew we had quite a few plays and we only had one three and out and never did really any of the offense at any time did they put their head down. We knew that our defense was going to get themselves going and we were going to get ourselves going in the next couple drives.  
   
 Q. Did you have a feeling coming into this even after last week and that tough loss?  
DESHONE KIZER: This week we had a different style of preparation. Our guys understand that the margin of loss is very small right now, so as long as that, we continue to prepare the way we prepared this week and play as if it's one or done, and that we're in sort of like March Madness mode, I think we'll be okay going forward.   
   
 Q. Talk about James performance and how much easier he made it this week.   
DESHONE KIZER: C.J.'s an unbelievable guy who runs after the first hit. The first hit normally doesn't bring the guy down. So that being said, it's always a fall back that to put the ball in his hands and allow him to try to get some yards. C.J.'s an amazing running back and I'm excited to see what he can do from week‑to‑week.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
DESHONE KIZER: We haven't really talked too much about USC. In the position we're in now, it really allows us to go from week‑to‑week and from game to game. It's kind of hard to look at the big ones and the small ones or what's next, you just got to focus on what we have. So we'll grind down tomorrow, put the USC film on and get ourselves ready for another big one.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
DESHONE KIZER: It's unreal the focus this team has. We're different. We understand that this team has all the capabilities of being very good and that we can be the best team in the country each week. And with that being said, our team is second to none with our preparation and the way that we go about day‑to‑day practice and from play to play. As long as we continue to build off of a win and to put the loss against Clemson behind us, I think we'll be all right.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
DESHONE KIZER: No, no. The other ones just hurt my feet. The brand new cleats. They brought them out for us this week. I didn't get them going as fast as I needed to get them going, so I just put on last week's.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
DESHONE KIZER: It's huge for us. As an offense, when we have momentum on our side and when we're winning and when we're playing good football, there's not much that we can't do. And with some confidence and some momentum I think that we can be the best offense in the country and a big win for us tonight and to put some points on the board will be great for us moving forward.   
   
 Q. Seems like all year the offense, whether you guys go down and they tie it up, you guys orchestrate quick responses. They scored first and then you guys were aggressive right before the half. Where does that come from? Does one guy in the huddle calm everybody down?  
DESHONE KIZER: It comes from experience. We have some guys who have been through quite a bit. Stanley, Nick Martin, Chris Brown, Carlisle, those guys have all been through more than just being down seven points. They have been through some tough losses, they have been through some great wins. With those leaders leading us it's kind of tough for us not to be able to strike back.   
   
 Q. How do you think you did on the day?   
DESHONE KIZER: I need to continue to improve. I wouldn't necessarily say it was a step back from last week but I don't think that was my best performance. My preparation was there, now it's time to bring the physical part of it to the game and make sure that I'm not leaving any plays out there that I shouldn't leave out there. With that being said, it's just going to be another great week of grinding and perfecting my craft and hopefully next week will be a better game.   
   
 Q. How exciting is it to look forward to playing USC?   
DESHONE KIZER: It's very big for our team. Obviously it's a rivalry that's been around for longer than any of us have been here, so with that being said what we're going to prepare as if it's the last game of the season, because that's how every week is going to have to be for us to try to achieve the goals that we set before the season.   
USC is a very good football team, I'm keeping a small eye on them and I'm excited to go out and compete against another great team.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT