WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2013
Arantxa Rus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 O. PUCHKOVA/A. Rus
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How do you describe your year so far?   What's your sort of assessment of what's going on?   
ARANTXA RUS:   This year is not a good year for me.   I lost a lot of matches.   Yeah, it's hard, but I try to keep working hard.   
Yeah, that's the only thing you can do.   
   
 Q.   What do you put it down to, the losses?   Something you can put your finger on?   Is there something in your game that's not working particularly well?  
ARANTXA RUS:   In the beginning of the year I was serving not good.   Yeah, that is hard if you play matches and you give a lot of points away.  
After the last month I played better tennis, but you need to play very good to win matches in this level.  
Yeah, I try my best.   
   
 Q.   Has this affected you off the court?   Do you feel like in the days between matches it weighs on you, or are you the same person you were always?   How is this affecting you personally?   
ARANTXA RUS:   No, I'm still the same person.   You have also other life than tennis.   It's your work, so...  
   
 Q.   Is it hard sometimes to keep your spirits up, to stay positive at times?  
ARANTXA RUS:   Yeah, it's hard because all the people around you are negative.   So it's good that I have like a good coach to work with.   Yeah, my family helps me also.  
That's good.   
   
 Q.   Are there different things you're trying, or you stick with the routine that got you here?   
ARANTXA RUS:   Yeah, I work with a coach that knows me already since I was young, so it's good.  
   
 Q.   Are there any matches that you've lost that you felt you probably should have won that one or won this particular one?  
ARANTXA RUS:   Yeah, sure.   There were a few matches I had chances that could be‑‑ yeah, that I could win.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember any in particular that stand out for you?   
ARANTXA RUS:   I had last week few chances, set points, and like other few matches.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT