DUKE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 17, 2007
Ted Roof
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   COACH TED ROOF:  Frustrating and disappointing loss.  The turnovers were huge like they always are, and our performance on third down, I thought those were the two most critical factors in the football game. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the atmosphere in the game, Notre Dame is up 28-0 and have their scond team in and the crowd was very much in the game; what was that like? 
 COACH TED ROOF:  Well, it's no surprise.  Notre Dame is a great atmosphere for college football.  They are fans are very supportive, and they have reason to be celebrating and it certainly wasn't a shock to me. 

 Q.  The way that they turned it around so quickly, what were you thinking, trying to get into the locker room and say to your team? 
 COACH TED ROOF:  Well, here is what we were trying to do. We were trying to run out the clock.  And we checked to a pass, and then fumbled and then they were able to get it.  And if we were going to have to fight our way back one play at a time, it was going to require a lot better performance than we had in the first half.  And it was going to have to be done one play at a time, and it was doable, but we didn't get it done. 

 Q.  How much was of a factor was the weather today? 
 COACH TED ROOF:  The weather was the same for both teams.  We slipped some.  They slipped some.  But I'm certainly not blaming the weather on that football game. 

 Q.  Did you know a lot about their freshman running back coming in and what were your impressions? 
 COACH TED ROOF:  I thought he ran really hard.  Thought he ran well.  At that point in the game, they had run several more plays than we had.  We had been on the field too long defensively.  And offensively we had not been on the field long enough. 
 But I was very impressed with him, and I thought he ran hard and added some punch to their offense. 

 Q.  With the way this game has built up, and the opportunity for Duke to get on national television and really showcase itself, for it to play out like this, how disappointing is that for the program in general? 
 COACH TED ROOF:  It's very disappointing.  It's 0-0 and what did they get, 14 points in the last minute in the first half?  So you're talking about a one-play game that could go either way, and then what happened, happened, and you know, it went from there. 
 But yeah, it was certainly a great opportunity for us that didn't work out. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT