AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2007
Alan Mackin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Have you played in conditions like that before?   
 ALAN MACKIN:  No, I've never played in heat like that before.  During the qualifying round it wasn't as hot.  The temperature was -- I think the hottest I played in qualifying was like 31, 32.   
 Today it was just a massive difference, not only in the temperature but how the ball was coming off the court.  I made a lot of unforced errors today which I haven't made in other matches.   
 In hindsight -- no excuses -- but I probably should have probably strung my racquets tighter for these conditions because it was so hot and the ball just flies around when it's heat like this.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel physically?   
 ALAN MACKIN:  I was getting tired out there after the second set.  It was such a long way to come back.  I think that he's obviously used to the heat.  He's from Ecuador.  It's pretty hot there (laughter).  I heard he's still playing matches.   
  
  Q.  What's your view on a rule which allows you to continue floating yourself in temperatures that won't allow other people to start at the same time?   
 ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, it seems unfair, but I guess everyone -- some guys just got to play in it.  Everyone else has played in it, so you can't really make excuses.  Once you're on there, it's fair enough I think.   
  
  Q.  But if it rains at Wimbledon everyone comes off.  They don't say, You've started so you'll finish, everyone comes off.   
 ALAN MACKIN:  That's true, but it's a different situation.  You can actually still play here on the court.  If it rains at Wimbledon, then it's dangerous just because the grass is --   
  
  Q.  It is a different situation.  If it rains at Wimbledon, you fall over and break your leg.  If you dehydrate here, you could die.   
 ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, that's an extreme case.  I know what you're saying.  But I think it takes probably more players to stand up and maybe confront the tournament about that.   
 But I think maybe just one player like myself, no one is going to listen to what I say.   
  
  Q.  What will you take from this last week?   
 ALAN MACKIN:  I think it's been a good experience qualifying.  I know that I can compete with higher-ranked players.  I think I've got to lok at the physical -- I mean, I had a tough four weeks in December, but obviously there's a lot more needs to go into the thought of my physical training.   
 If I'm to play in temperatures like this and play five-set matches, I need to have a stronger base physically, I think.   
  
  Q.  Even from today you'll draw confidence, though, won't you?   
 ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, I think just qualifying has been good for my confidence.  I'm going to try and keep it going over the next few tournaments.  As I say, I know I can compete with higher-ranked players.   
 Getting my ranking up now so I can hopefully start getting a main draw in better tournaments.   
  
  Q.  Where is your next tournament?   
 ALAN MACKIN:  I'm going to be going to Durbin for a 125,000 Challenger event.  That's going to be next week.   
  
  Q.  Isn't that the Challenger -- as so often happens with great players -- they have a fantastic week and then Wimbledon happens, it happens at the US Open occasionally, the challenge is now for you to maintain this, isn't it?   
 ALAN MACKIN:  Absolutely.  Got to keep it going.  I think it's important not to put too much pressure on yourself.  You've just got to go out and play the matches and perform as well as you can and try not to think about those things.   
 It's easier said than done, but I think one of the most important thing is that I'm playing the right kind of game, playing tennis is going to help me improve.   
  
  Q.  What about Davis Cup?  It that in your head?   
 ALAN MACKIN:  The match coming up, yeah, for sure.  I'm happy to be on the team, and obviously it's going to be tough.  There's a lot of guys playing well, and we'll just have to wait and see how the team is.   
  
  Q.  John Lloyd has watched all your qualifying matches to date.  Have you had a chat with him and discussed what happened the last time and hopefully smoothed over everything and now you're --   
 ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, everything is pretty much in the past now.  We're moving on from that.  Yeah, I get on good with John.  I think he's a likable guy.  He gets on well with all the other players.  So, yeah, just going to see how it is before the next match.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT