WIMBLEDON
June 20, 2005
Alan Mackin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Tough going out there?

ALAN MACKIN:  Tough going.  Tough draw.  He's a class player.  He's pulled off some unbelievable shots there when I've had him under pressure.  But altogether he's just got a big game, so it was always going to be a tough match for me, you know, to beat someone at his level.  But I thought I performed pretty well.  As I said before, try and take away the positives from it.


Q.  You seemed to be wearing ankle supports.  Was that right?  Is that a long-standing problem?

ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, I've had -- injured both my ankles last couple years, so it's just prevention against rolling them again.


Q.  Was the heat a factor?

ALAN MACKIN:  It's a hot day, but I play a lot abroad and it's warmer there.  I feel like usually I play quite a lot of my tennis on clay so it's a little bit more physically demanding than grass.  Obviously on grass the rallies are quick and comparatively short if you compare them to a clay court match. Yeah, it was hot, but I don't think it was a factor at all to be honest.


Q.  You managed to hang in there.

ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, I felt, you know -- I felt I matched him quite a bit of the match.  I thought it was pretty even.  But he just raised his level in those important games when he needed to, and that's why he's as good as he is, because he can do that.


Q.  Give you a lot of hope for the future, a lot of things to hold on to?

ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, well, I think I've got to improve my game.  I've got to get better.  I've got to play higher-ranked guys on a regular basis because that's the only way you can improve your own game.  A lot of the guys I'm playing are, you know, satellite, future level, and you get maybe three, four chances a set against them.  They're playing maybe a couple games loose. The higher you move up, the players are more match tight with their games; they don't give you as many chances and you've got to win more of the points against them if you're going to take games and sets off them.


Q.  What are your plans now?

ALAN MACKIN:  Well, I'm still in the doubles.  I'll play doubles here and then, well, after Wimbledon finishes I've got a couple of challenger tournaments in Nottingham and Manchester.  After that, I'll probably look to head over to the States to play a couple of challengers and maybe some warm-up ATP events before the US Open starts.


Q.  Good to be back at Wimbledon again after you weren't here last year?  Obviously, it's good to be back, the atmosphere.

ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, it is a great tournament.  I love playing here.  You know, it's great support for all the British players that play.  Yeah, it's a special tournament.


Q.  Will you be watching your fellow Scots?  Elena and Andy are going to be in action.

ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, I hope they do well.  I don't really -- obviously, I haven't looked at who they play against, but I wish them good luck, yeah.  It's always tough matches here, though.  There's no easy opponents.


Q.  Is this the best prepared you've been coming in?

ALAN MACKIN:  I think it is, yeah.  Obviously, I played in Queen's and I played a couple of tournaments also on the grass before Wimbledon.  So, yeah, I can't really complain about my preparation this time.  I felt, you know, obviously, I qualified at Queen's so I was playing well there and I'd lost, you know, earlly with Andreev in three sets. So I've been playing well.  Just tough draw getting Gonzalez in the first round.


Q.  I noticed that you're quite a noisy player, quite vocal.  Gonzalez seemed to respond to that.  It's been in the news a bit lately as a general issue.  Is that something that's always been part of your game and just comes natural?

ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, I show emotion.  I like to do that.  You know, in football, in other sports, they show emotion, so I don't see why you shouldn't be allowed to do that in tennis.  I wear my heart on my sleeve.  That's just the kind of person I am.


Q.  Based at the University of Bath, is that right?

ALAN MACKIN:  Oh, no, that's old information.  I left there when I was about 16 years old. I practice, I do a bit of practice now in London with Andrew Richardson and, yeah, that's going well for me.


Q.  So you just studied at the University of Bath?

ALAN MACKIN:  I practiced in a group there that was based at the University of Bath when I was 15 or 16 years old.  But then I moved abroad to practice for a couple of years.  I was in France and then in Spain for some time. But, no, I'm practicing quite a bit with Andrew in London, so that's where I am really.  I'm not in London a lot, but whenever I'm kind of off tournaments in a training phase, then I probably practice here.


Q.  These new circumstances going well?  Talk about your coaching with Andrew.

ALAN MACKIN:  Yeah, yeah, going very well.  Obviously, Andrew's got a higher ranking.  I think he was up to about 130, his best ranking, so he's very knowledgeable about tennis.  He's working together with Mark Petchey and David Felgate. So, yeah, we're getting on very well, and they're doing everything they can to help me improve.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT