WUHAN OPEN
September 24, 2017
Duan Ying-Ying
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. VESNINA/Duan Y.
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese, please.
Q. We have five Chinese players in the main draw.  You were the first player.  Do you feel any pressure?  The performance of Chinese players here has not been very good.
DUAN YING-YING: Well, I don't feel a lot of pressure as the first Chinese player to play.  I just gave everything out on the court.  I tried my best.  So I don't feel a lot of pressure.
Q. Compared with the foreign top players, are we still lagging behind them greatly?
DUAN YING-YING: Well, I don't think so.  I think for the Chinese players, actually the level of Chinese players is very high.  Unlike the past, now I think we are at the same level or a very similar level.  Not a very big gap.
Q. I've noticed in the first set you were down three games.  Talk about your performance today.
DUAN YING-YING: Well, in the first set, I was a bit nervous.  I'm not used to this atmosphere.  Also my opponent gave me a lot of pressure and challenges.  Her returns were very deep.  I think I did a very good job.  But still, her returns were really at a very high level.
In the second set, I got used to the atmosphere.  I made my service returns deeper.  My performance was quite good.  But at 4-4, my serve, in that game I was up and down in my mind.  Also I couldn't get my first serve in.  It's really unfortunate.
In the whole match, in the second set, I had my chances at 4-2, 4-4, my service game, and also 4-5.
Q. Do you have any goals for the future?
DUAN YING-YING: No, I don't have a specific plan now.  I just want to do my best on the court.  I try not to think too much, otherwise it could jeopardize my performance on the court.
In the future, I hope I can give it my all.
Q. How many times have you been to Wuhan?
DUAN YING-YING: This is my third time to come to Wuhan.
Q. What are your thoughts about it?
DUAN YING-YING: It feels really great to play in China.  Everything is great here.
Q. What is your impression of Wuhan?
DUAN YING-YING: It is really warm, really hot here.  Today it's very humid and warm.  I sweat a lot.  I think it is because of the rain.
Q. This year your ranking is 97.  Are you going to play other ITF tournaments?  If you stay around 100, you will be qualified for the Australian Open next year.
DUAN YING-YING: I didn't consider that much the points or rankings.  Currently I am adjusting my strategies, my tactics.  If you want to win, you have to make a lot of changes.  It's not like playing on the ITF tournaments.  You can't stay the same all the time.  If you want to get your foothold, you can't just consider your rankings.  You have to change your techniques, your tactics.
I think now I am not considering just the rankings.
Q. As for the change of your strategy, is it successful now?
DUAN YING-YING: No, not very successful.  To change the tactics and strategy in my daily training, it is very different from a match.  We have to improve in every way.
Today, the second set, my performance was very good.
Q. What was the difference between the first and second set?
DUAN YING-YING: I cannot say which set I played better in.  Actually, in each set I did my best.  There were small mistakes or errors in each set.  I cannot say that I played better in one set than the other.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT