BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2007
Beth Combs
A.J. Glasauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  We'll ask the coach for an opening statement and then we'll take questions for the student athletes and then we will dismiss them and continue with Coach Combs.  Go ahead. 
 COACH BETH COMBS:  Obviously a very disappointing day for the Wildcats.  We expected to come out here and do a much better job and have a much different outcome.  So it's a disappointing day.  We have a great group of young women who are with me today that are going to help us, and in many cases have done a great deal for this program.  I'm proud of what they've done, I'm proud of what we will do, and unfortunately it wasn't the day we had planned. 

 Q.  AJ, the Gophers hadn't seen you guys since January since you guys mixed up the lineup a little bit.  Seemed like they were intent on taking the ball out of Beth Marshall's hands and making her work.  How did that disrupt you guys getting into your offense? 
 A.J. GLASAUER:  Yeah, we made adjustments in the second half, but yeah, we were a little hesitant, especially on the wings.  We need to be more aggressive in helping our time to the ball, which we didn't do first half. 

 Q.  Is this kind of disappointing in a way to lose in this particular manner, considering the improvement that you've made in the last six games? 
 COACH BETH COMBS:  It's very disappointing.  You know, we've been playing great basketball as of late, the last three weeks of the season, even with some losses.  We were doing some great things and being able to move forward.  We really thought the layoff was going to pay off for us and be able to give us a little bit of extra rest and extra prep time.  It is a very disappointing way to lose. 

 Q.  How much is the pressure and double-teaming your point guard, how much of that kind of gets you off to a slow start? 
 COACH BETH COMBS:  They did a great job.  We talked about their press, we talked about their half court and full court traps.  They were able to really put us back on our heels.  Beth Marshall -- looked like a freshman tonight. She didn't play as well and wasn't able to handle the pressure as well as she has done in the last three weeks. All around we didn't have anybody that stepped up today and were able to handle it.  We were able to do a little bit better job in the second half but couldn't get out of our own way there to put the ball in the hole. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Beth.  Look forward to seeing you next year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT