MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 24, 1999
David Cone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Do you pitch differently automatically with that three-run lead? It seemed like you
were able to pitch around guys that you didn't want to hurt you. Is that my imagination or
the way you went about it?
 
 DAVID CONE: I thought I caught a break with Jordan's ball. That's easily a home run on
a warmer day. Obviously it was cold tonight and the wind was blowing in. The fact that we
scored three runs in the top of the first, then I caught a break with the home run ball
that stayed in the park, sort of gave us a lift and maybe took a little wind out of their
sails so to speak. 
 
Q. You don't throw a knuckle ball. It looked like you hit one to Ozzie Guillen tonight.
 
 DAVID CONE: I don't know if it got blocked by the runner or what happened. I was pretty
surprised. He's a pretty good defensive player. That was definitely a break. 
 
Q. Many references over the course of the evening both on TV, radio, what have you, but
maybe this will be your last game as a Yankee. Did you even consider that even remotely,
or do you just assume you may be back with the team next year?
 
 DAVID CONE: Certainly it's gone through my mind that it's a possibility. The Yankees
have some tough decisions to make. I put it out of my mind for now. All that really
matters is right here and right now. It's pretty unpredictable when you play for the
Yankees. 
 
Q. Is this the best you've pitched in a long time, given the way your fastball was
moving and the changeup and the location?
 
 DAVID CONE: Yeah, I felt strong. I really did. The extra rest has really helped me in
terms of putting some life back into my arm. Kind of fought it here and there, my control
at times was a little off. But that's sort of a by-product of extra rest. I'd rather be
strong and a little wild than the converse, you know, coming in, you know, a little
hurting or a little flat. 
 
Q. As somebody who appreciates the traditions of the game, can you tell me what was
going through your head when you were throwing in the outfield and they were bringing in
Williams and Musial and all those guys?
 
 DAVID CONE: I thought it was tremendous. It took the focus off of me. Nobody got on me
warming up. I was expecting to get some hecklers riding me pretty good. Everybody was so
into the ceremonies it was tremendous for me. It was a great distraction. I had a nice
warmup, sort of uneventful. 
 
Q. As tough as it is to win ten games in a row in a regular season playing against
three or four opponents that might be mediocre, the Yankees have won ten straight World
Series games. Does that blow you away?
 
 DAVID CONE: It really does. You just don't expect to do that this time of year against
great teams. It's a real tribute to our starting pitching. We've had big performances and
also Mariano Rivera, when we do get a lead, he's been automatic. 
 
Q. Joe Torre was saying that you were pitching better out of the stretch as opposed to
windup tonight. Was there any difference? If so, can you talk about that?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, yeah, I felt really good. Almost too strong. And I worked myself into
trouble with walks a few times, but I was able to still make a quality pitch and get out
of jams from the stretch, a couple of big double-play balls and a couple of popups with
men on base, then in the seventh a big strikeout looking, Andruw Jones, men on first and
third. 
 
Q. 3-2 pitch to finish off Jones, seemed like you took a few seconds to compose
yourself before delivering the ball. Anything going through your head at that point?
 
 DAVID CONE: Yeah, I still felt good. I still felt strong in the seventh inning,
obviously I worked myself into trouble with a couple of walks with a 7-0 lead, that was a
little frustrating. Yes, I did kind of try to step back and say: "Even if I give up a
home run right here, we still have a pretty good lead." I just wanted to stop it
right there. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT