MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 23, 1999
David Cone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Seeing what the weather is tonight and what it might be tomorrow, does that bother
you a little bit because of the cold weather?

DAVID CONE: Well, yeah, naturally I would prefer warm weather, but, you know, since
I've had my arterial bypass surgery, each year's gotten a little easier circulation-wise.
I don't really anticipate any problems.

Q. Could you give us your impressions of the contrasting personalties between Rocker
and Rivera?

DAVID CONE: I don't really know John Rocker very well, obviously, just what I've seen
over the last series. And Mariano is just as cool as they come. He's unphased and
unflappable in almost any situation, and I've always seen him that way. Even if you go
back to the '97 Series we had with Cleveland when he gave up the home run to Sandy Alomar,
his reaction was the same as if he had just saved a game. So Mariano is amazingly evenly
keeled.

Q. David, what were some of the things Joe has done to limit distractions, and can
players sense when George Steinbrenner doesn't have maybe as tough an influence as he's
had in previous years?

DAVID CONE: Well, Joe just commands respect. He has from day one. I know that's easy to
say now that we have a couple of World Series Championships under our belt. But it was
that way from the beginning with Joe, he just came in, took over, had a presence about him
and an even keeledness about him. He's a straight shooter. I think people picked up on
that early with Joe. He also keeps our owner in the loop. I think he heads off situations
that might arise or have arisen in the past and stops them before any trouble happens.

Q. You have particularly fond memories of '96, Game 3 here, in that it helped define
you as a clutch pitcher?

DAVID CONE: Even back to '92 when I was with the Blue Jays, pitched in Game 6 in
Atlanta for the Blue Jays in a game we eventually won in extra innings. Then again in '96
here. You just always know they're going to be tight games. Because of Atlanta's pitching,
you know the margin for error is very minimal. You expect 1-0, 2-1, 3-2 type games,
potential extra inning type games. In those type of games, it's usually the bench or
bullpen that makes a difference.

Q. Facing Millwood as opposed to Maddux, have you thought about that in your offensive
approach?

DAVID CONE: My offensive approach, I didn't think I had much of a chance against
Maddux. Millwood throws probably a little harder. So if I can get a bunt down or make
contact, it's a moral victory. But it's tough to say. I think American League pitchers
like to joke about their hitting a lot. Certainly we've gone back and forth joking about
who's a better hitter, who's going to do something in the series. In all likelihood,
something's going to happen with the American League pitchers that could determine the
outcome of a game, whether that's getting down a bunt or a suicide squeeze or sacrifice
fly. Something to score one run or help score one run could be the difference. All kidding
aside, I think we all realize that.

Q. You've been around enough to know that players don't get a chance to have this that
often. Do you tell yourself that I have to savor this that much more?

DAVID CONE: I think it's easier this time around. In '92 with the Blue Jays it was a
bit of a blur for me. I traded at the end of the year. You're so worried in your first
World Series experience about messing it up, about doing something you're going to be
remembered for the rest of your career, some sort of, you know, mistake that's going to
cost the game. But now I don't worry about those things as much. Even in '96 and '98,
progressively I got a little easier with the notion of accountability during these games.
And being able to deal with that, because that was a little scary notion early in my
career or during my first World Series experience. Because you were so worried, you know,
about something going wrong or, you know, having some sort of defining moment in your
career that is the type of moment you didn't want to remember.

Q. David, in '96 you guys had -- Joe's brother was having the heart thing. Then last
year, Darryl. This year Luis Sojo's father. Having been here before, does that help you
guys minimize the distractions and overcome the adversity?

DAVID CONE: I think it does. There has been so many human interest stories over the
last five years with the Yankees. It's been one dramatic story after the other. With that
being said, I know the Braves had their own story with Andres Galarraga this year. Just a
remarkable man, universally respected in both leagues. So if you want to go tit for tat, I
think the Braves have their own motivation for this series, because of him. But we're
certainly used to it, yes, to answer your question. We've been through it, it's been one
right after the other for the Yankees over the last five years.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT