AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 14, 1999
David Cone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. With that rest you seemed to exude real confidence in the game. What was that
special feeling you had that you could do well today?
 
 DAVID CONE: The rest always worked to my advantage in the past, with most pitchers, it
usually affects their control. But with me, it is the exact opposite so I felt strong. I
felt sharp. Especially after I got O'Leary in the first inning in a jam, seemed like every
inning there was runners on base, and they are a hot team and there is no outs in their
line up right now, so you can't afford a mistake. 
 
Q. How much of the credit was this game to Joe's managing?
 
 DAVID CONE: Two great managers going at it in the 8th inning that was a lot of fun to
watch. They were countering each other and the bullpens were empty and benches were empty.
Next thing you know, we got the bases loaded and Mendoza saved the game for us at that
spot. 
 
Q. Tied your career high for postseason nine strike outs. 7th inning you struck out two
batters. You seemed to get stronger as the game wore on. Talk about that.
 
 DAVID CONE: I felt good all night. Extra rest really helped me and it has been that way
in the past where if I skip a start or if I have a few extra days, I seem to be stronger
it doesn't affect my control. I could have gone out for the 8th is exactly what I told Joe
but at that point I thought I was over the 120 pitch point and still felt good so that is
encouraging. 
 
Q. Talk about the home run to Garciaparra, next time he came up you seemed to have
gotten extra juiced up for that?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, he is just one great ballplayer, no two ways about it. I was actually
trying to waste that pitch trying to throw a side-arm slider off the plate in order to get
to the next pitch. In my mind I was already thinking about what the next pitch was going
to be and next thing you know it is a home run, probably only slider I threw all night
that didn't really break. Started out right where I wanted it, almost whittled away and
down but it just didn't break. He doesn't miss those. 
 
Q. The Red Sox were a wild card team but are they maybe a little bit better than people
around the country think or do they just match up very well with you guys?
 
 DAVID CONE: No, they are better than a wild card team in my mind. Plus they are hot
right now. Every batter in their lineup seems to get quality at-bats and they put a lot of
pressure on the pitchers, so in my mind they are much better than a wild card team and
just amazingly resilient team you have to appreciate that from the other side. 
 
Q. This has been an amazing kind roller coaster season for you going from a perfect
game to a slump back up again. How have you weathered it and what about your future here?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, I haven't handled it very well at all, second half been frustrated
because I was inconsistent after the perfect game. So you know, a lot of little things
bothered me that shouldn't have. As far as my future goes that bothered me too, and I
think tonight goes a little way towards putting me in a position to maybe have a chance to
come back, but it is pretty unpredictable right now. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT