AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 13, 1999
David Cone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I know you've obviously been in the ALCS a couple of times. Do you think this
atmosphere is going to be any different because it is Boston/New York?
 
 DAVID CONE: Oh, I think yes, and rightly so. It's the first time in history that the
two teams have met in postseason play and it makes for a unique atmosphere. It is
exciting. It is and it should be. 
 
Q. Is there any concern that ten days' rest may be too much for you -- any time in your
baseball career when you have had that much rest?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, I'd rather be too rested or well-rested or overly-rested, whatever
you want to call it as opposed to the converse, coming in a little tired, or hurting a
little bit. So I have dealt with it before. I seem to work well on extra rest and the only
other time I can think of that I have had this much rest was during the All-Star break and
then I came out and threw a perfect game. I am not predicting anything, but -- there was a
little thing in the All-Star Game in the middle that I pitched an inning in between. I
feel good about it. My arm feels good. Seemed to have responded to rest very well. Doesn't
seem to affect my control as much as maybe somebody else on the staff. 
 
Q. Joe has talked a little bit about having more appreciation of things having gone
through the surgery, all that. What have you seen different about him this season?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, Joe is always sort of noted for being very even-keeled and always
saying the right thing at the right time to the right person, but I think that is even
more so now. Before the surgery I used to see him sit in his office after a tough loss and
kind of hang around for a while; talk about the game and I haven't seen that this year. He
sort of leaves the game at the ball field and the minute the game is over he is showered
and he goes home and he has got his daughter in his arms. He definitely has a greater
perspective now than I think he had before. 
 
Q. Knowing Paul O'Neill the way you do, did you expect that -- did you have an
expectation that he was going to try and play or talk himself into the lineup?
 
 DAVID CONE: Without a doubt. Paul could have a great career as a lobbyist in Washington
when he is done because I saw him doing some very heavy lobbying today in the manager's
office and it worked. He is an intense competitor. Hates to be left out. Hasn't played in
a week. And he may be more anxious than me to get out there right now. 
 
Q. Going back to Joe just for a second, he also seemed emotional after the Division
clinching which was different. Was that surprising?
 
 DAVID CONE: A little bit at first. But I think some of that had to do with the fact
that it was in Baltimore again and it brought back some memories of 1996. Also some
memories of his brother, Rocco who passed away around that time. I think there was some
external things going around personally with Joe that led up to that emotional outburst
that day. It is interesting to see because Joe is very good at hiding his emotions as
everyone well knows that has been around him. When he does have that kind of reaction,
people notice and it was nice to see. 
 
Q. Your results after the perfect game were probably not what you would have wanted.
Would you talk about what was going on there?
 
 DAVID CONE: I have thought about this a lot over the last six weeks and I think after
the perfect game I was so guarded in my own mind as to not let that perfect game affect
me. Especially the next start, against Cleveland that Friday night, I was so worried about
not having a letdown that -- I don't think I have really stopped and enjoyed the perfect
game. I think I have only watched it once and maybe I should have allowed myself to really
absorb that moment and enjoy it for what it was because I really haven't had the chance to
do that. Since that point I have been inconsistent. Although I do feel that I have pitched
better than my record would indicate, there were some good games in the second half. Just
not as consistent as the first half. 
 
Q. Considering the rough second half, what is your confidence level right now?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, I feel good because the regular season is over and I understand that
postseason is a whole different animal, and I am well rested. My arm feels great. I expect
to be sharp and have good stuff. I am really looking forward to it. Confidence is a
fleeting thing even among veterans and guys who have had success. There were times in the
second half where I did have some self doubt, but going into this game I am ready and very
anxious to finish this season on a good note. 
 
Q. You have been in the situation that Ramon is in this year - suffering from arm
trouble and coming back to pitch in a big game. What is that like?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, there is nothing like it. I mean, the expectation levels, you know,
that you have for yourself are kind of confusing because you don't know what to expect. I
am sure in his own mind he didn't know what to expect when he went out there and it sort
of came on in a hurry for him. It is a remarkable comeback. I don't think anyone was
counting on him to pitch in the postseason for Boston and not only has he pitched, he
seems to be back or close to being back in terms of his arm strength. It is quite a
remarkable story, and very emotional. There is a lot of emotions running through his mind,
I am sure, and it is sort of a tough thing to deal with, just sort of contain your
emotions, and also your excitement that your arm is back. Hey, I have got some arm
strength back here and it is a very exciting thing. 
 
Q. You just spoke about your confidence. Moving up to Game 2 giving you the chance to
pitch twice in the series, is that a confidence booster for you?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, yeah, sort of reserved myself to take whatever came my way. If Joe
wanted to plug me into Game 4 and only pitch once, I was prepared to deal with that.
Certainly does feel good to be out there in Game 2 and also have a chance to pitch twice.
So I would say in the long run, it does have a good effect on my confidence, but I relish
this opportunity. As I said before, I have been in this position a lot, but who knows what
is going to happen on down the line. I am going to really try to enjoy this one. 
 
Q. Following up, do you think you have a greater appreciation of tomorrow night just
given your career as opposed to when you were 26, 27?
 
 DAVID CONE: Yes, definitely. At 26, 27, I was doing some things I'd rather not talk
about. Yeah, goes without saying. I understand what is going on now. I understand what is
at stake. I understand the history of what this situation is, the history of Boston and
New York, I know how much this means to all of New England. This is a great opportunity
and this is something I wouldn't have fully appreciated ten years ago. 
 
Q. As a veteran do you have any left out feelings like from not pitching in the
previous series yet or do you just completely understand that? 
 
 DAVID CONE: I would be lying to you if I said I didn't want to be a part of that. I
wouldn't say that I felt left out, but I have sort have come full circle on my thinking
and maybe it was a blessing - maybe missing the first round will allow me to be strong
from here on out. Playoffs on a one-year basis much less over a five-year bases as we have
had here, I think you will see that with a lot of teams that are in the Playoffs year in
and year out that that extra month of the season really chews up pitching. I have seen it
happen on a lot of staffs. Certainly I have been a part of that and I have suffered that
as well. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT