MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 19, 1998
David Cone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Sterling Hitchcock said earlier you greatly influenced his career when you were both
pitching for the Yankees, would you elaborate on that?
 
 DAVID CONE: I always thought Sterling had great stuff, he pitched great games in '95,
when we won the Wild Card with the Yankees. And I thought he would evolve into a great
pitcher for the Yankees. But he got caught up in the Yankee thing and traded around, and
he's landed here in San Diego. He's always had the arm, he's always had the stuff, so this
doesn't surprise me how well he's pitching. 
 
Q. David, where did you see the game last night? How did you find out about the results
and what were your feelings watching what was going on?
 
 DAVID CONE: Obviously I flew in early, and I did get a chance to watch the game. I was
very impressed with El Duque. I was happy he got a chance to pitch in Yankee Stadium, and
really come through. He deserved it after everything he's been through. I thought he
pitched a dynamite game. 
 
Q. David, do you think the warmer weather in San Diego will help you, is this a better
situation for you?
 
 DAVID CONE: I'm hoping, definitely. A couple of extra days will probably help me even
more. It's been a long grind for me, I had the second straight shoulder surgery in the
off-season, I've been throwing off the mound since mid-December. This is the time of year
where pitchers tend to break down a little bit and get fatigued. I'm sure that pitchers on
both sides of the field right now are feeling a little bit of this, with the extra round
of playoffs. 
 
Q. David, how close were you to maybe quitting after the early season troubles, can you
talk about what it was like to go through those first two tough starts?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, they were ugly, there's no way around it. It was an embarrassing
situation where I was searching for respectability. Obviously I thought to myself, this
can't go on. I can't go out there and embarrass myself, hurt the team. There were a lot of
jokes in the year about me being the weakling, and the fifth starter. I wanted to not hurt
the team. I wanted to do something to contribute. I was able to win 20 games now, and it's
been one of the most gratifying years of my career in that regard. 
 
Q. You guys got out so early, playing basically the whole year, 10, 15, 20 games up.
Are there specific things the team did that you remember during those times that were so
impressive to you?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, I just think we've had an uncanny knack all year, when we need to
pitch well, when we win to 1-0 or 2-1, we get great pitching performances. And when we
need to score runs, it seems like we're able to matchup and do that. Is that character,
integrity? It's a team that really picks each other up and pulls for each other. And it
sounds like a little bit of clicheism. It's really true, we pick each other up. We sense
when the starter is struggling, that we score runs. And vice-versa, if the other pitcher
does well, and we need to hold them down and as a pitching staff, we do that, as well. 
 
Q. You've seen a number of organizations, other than raw talent, what's allowed the
Yankees to sustain this quality for almost four years? That's a long time.
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, when I came in '95 we made a heck of a run to get the Wild Card and
were seven games under .500, and had a great stretch in September. The next year
everything turned over. When we lost that series in Seattle, it was devastating. It was
the most devastated clubhouse. Buck Showalter lost his job, I think when we brought Tino
Martinez in, that was a turning point for the organization, because those are huge shoes
to fill, in Don Mattingly. And Stottlemyre has done a great job with the pitching staff.
And the evolution of Paul O'Neill as a leader, the respect he's gotten year in and year
out, he's become one of the great Yankees of all time. And Bernie's evolution. And Derek
Jeter, his opening game in '96 against Cleveland where he makes a home run and the
over-the-shoulder catch, and we had doubts over whether a rookie shortstop would be able
to make it. There's been a combination of factors, and we're in the midst of a good run.
And three or four years now we've been playing very well. 
 
Q. David, could you talk a little bit about how the aneurysm affected not only your
baseball career but your outlook on life?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, I said before, I didn't even know what the word aneurysm was, I
didn't know how to spell it, when I heard it on the table, and I thought it was life
threatening, and baseball was the last thing from my mind. And I found out it was fixable,
it was correctable, and I'd have a chance to pitch again. That's all I thought about. I
didn't want to end my career like that, I didn't want to have it taken away from me. I
wanted to come back and try to pitch again, and at least go out on my own terms. And low
and behold, I had another shoulder surgery last year. It's been a long year for me this
year, I've been throwing since December off the mound. And I'm looking forward to closing
this thing out, and getting a nice rest in the off-season. 
 
Q. David, you and El Duque seem to be similar, you both throw side armed. Could you
pick up anything he did against the 
 
 Padres last night? 
 DAVID CONE: Well, I hope so. I thought he was outstanding. I think he did a better job
of establishing his fastball than my previous start against Cleveland. But I think he
threw more fastballs than they thought he was going to. He moved it in and out and hit the
spots very well. There's no secret, if you can spot your fastball that well, that makes
all your other pitches that much more effective. 
 
Q. Joe was saying before, you might have heard part of it, how he has complete trust in
you, even when he doesn't even believe you're a hundred percent forthcoming about your
health. What kind of confidence does that do for your mental makeup?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, it makes me feel extremely confident. That's the ultimate praise that
a pitcher can get from a manager is the trust factor. And I kind of felt like I let him
down the other night when I gave up the grand slam to Thome. I've been able to pitch my
way into jams and pitch my way out of it, but it caught up with me the other day. I hope
that trust factor is still there tomorrow night. But that is the ultimate compliment any
player can get from a manager. 
 
Q. Tony Gwynn was over in the dugout discussing some head-to-heads out with you. He
said one of the best at-bats was the '94 All-Star Game, do you remember that?
 
 DAVID CONE: Yes, I do. I think I remember every pitch. And he's the type of hitter
where you do remember those type of sequences. But I threw him a splitter that was a good
pitch and he reached out and hooked for a double down the right line. He's that type of
pitcher, there is no one way to pitch him. You off speed, you curve him, and he's on
everything. So you just try to mix it up and hope he hits it at somebody sometimes. 
 
Q. As a baseball player, does it bring out the little kid in you when you get to swing
the bat and run the bases?
 
 DAVID CONE: Yeah, it does. It brings me back to my National League days. I really
enjoyed the National League style of play when I played for the Mets. But I've become more
pro-DH, as well, in the American League. From a pitching standpoint it's nice if you can
get a bunt down or get a hit and do something to help your team and help your cause when
you're pitching, it's great. 
 
Q. What do you expect from the staff as hitters in this series?
 
 DAVID CONE: I think by and large you would expect the National League staff to have the
advantage, in this ballpark it should be an advantage. We haven't taken much batting
practice all year, we're not very good at handling the bats. Anything we can do, get down
a bunt or not hurt our chances is going to be a plus for us. I'm sure a few of those guys
might be thinking a little bigger, they might be getting some hits or handle the bat
better than we do. 
 
Q. Postseason media guide said your last base hit came here in '93, do you have any
recollection of that or is that correct? 
 
 DAVID CONE: I think that's incorrect. I think the media guide is wrong. Actually the
last time I pitched here was my last game with the Mets in '92, before I got traded to the
Blue Jays, and eventually to the World Series in '92. So it was a long flight back that
night, and Frank Cashen said stay by the phone the next day, and lo and behold I was
traded to the Blue Jays. 
 
Q. Would you talk a little bit about the Padres hitting, what concerns you most about
them, what you can't let them do?
 
 DAVID CONE: Obviously the top two batters in the order, Gwynn is going to get his hits.
You hope that he's not in a position to do some hit and run type situations with Veras on
and running. They can do things in the top of the order that set up the chances or the
opportunity for Vaughn and some of the big boppers, Caminiti in the middle of the line-up.
Veras worries you and Gwynn worries you. It's a tough chance. 
 
Q. We know you took Hideki out for Sushi. What did you do to make El Duque and Wells
comfortable when they first came here?
 
 DAVID CONE: Well, El Duque is such an amazing story. We were all eager to meet him and
hear his story. He fit right in, immediately, almost the first day of practice. He was out
there running around and knocking down batted balls at him, and we were practicing, and he
was just into it. He had a hunger and joy for the game that I think was infectious on the
rest of our team. And Boomer is Boomer. Boomer is the type of guy where you want to make
him feel welcome. You want to make him feel part of the team. You want to make him feel
like he's a big part of the team and we're counting on him. At night you try to keep him
out of jail (laughter.) 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT