AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 12, 1998
David Cone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. This is the sort of game you were supposed to pitch last year, with the possible the
clinch. How does it feel for you to be able to pitch it this year?

DAVID CONE: It is very good to be in this position after what happened last year I kind
of felt like I let our team down last year when I told Joe Torre I was ready to go and in
reality, I probably fooled myself. This really is the first full year I have had with the
Yankees. The first time I have gone into postseason where I have been relatively healthy,
felt good about it.

Q. The way you pitched the other day people might be thinking what adjusting possibly
you have to do. Are there some adjustments when go to a rematch?

DAVID CONE: Sure, definitely, there always are. Especially when you are first -- the
team second time in less than a week, certain matchups you look at where you may want to
change your patterns. There may have been a few hitters where I threw predominantly
off-speed pitches that I may switch and throw fast balls too. Always a little cat and
mouse game going on. Always a little guesswork, but without a doubt, I am a firm believer
in trying to change your patterns and give different looks as often as possible.

Q. Is this engrained in your mind the way you pitch to everybody or do you go back and
look at the tape to make sure --

DAVID CONE: It is engrained in my mind, definitely. That is the beauty of the ALCS, we
know each other very well. It is a dogfight, face these guys a lot over the years. They
know me. They know on any given day if I don't make good pitches, they could get me, beat
me. I know if I could make quality pitches, I could beat them. Some times you get in the
-- there is a little bit of mystery there where you don't face these guys; don't know
about them. The ALCS is a dog fight. That is the one you have to scratch and claw;
everybody knows everything about everybody else.

Q. There has been more of a grind in this series than in the Texas series, even in the
course of the regular season. How have you viewed your teammates in their adjustment in
this series? 

DAVID CONE: Well, there is no doubt that it is kind of nice to see across the board in
a year of the home run Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa -- pitching has really been dominating by
and large throughout the playoffs both sides, boat leagues. Everybody throws out the old
cliches, good pitching always beats good hitting, but it is nice to see. I think our
pitching has really stepped up. I am really proud of everybody. El Duque the other night
was just incredible. We found a way to get enough runs even though everybody is talking
about when are we going to bust out; how come we are not hitting. The fact of the matter
is, we have found a way to get just enough runs; whether that means manufacturing them or
running the bases, stealing, I like our chances because our team is really resilient in
that matter.

Q. What do you anticipate the atmosphere to be like here tomorrow with the possibility
of a clinch?

DAVID CONE: It is going to be a frenzy, no doubt about it. To me, Yankee Stadium is
center stage. There is no place like it in all of sports. And I know obviously, I am a
little biased in that regard, but big game in Yankee Stadium, sellout crowd, chance to go
to the World Series, I just hope we see the horses at the end of the game circling the
field.

Q. Talk about the need to make adjustments. Could you even think about pitching Justice
and Alomar the same way you did in Game 2?

DAVID CONE: I think it is especially important with those two guys to mix it, to give
them different looks. I have got enough pitches to be able to do that, but those guys are
quality hitters. Both of them are hot right now. They also read pitches very well. They
read tendencies. They seem to pick up tips. They recognize pitches a little sooner than
maybe your average hitter, so, you definitely have to mix it up. You have got give them
different looks.

Q. How close are you to Charles Nagy and could you talk about his turnaround this year?

DAVID CONE: I have a lot of respect for Charlie. He is a great competitor, really great
guy. How close are we? We don't send each other Christmas cards, but we have talked over
the years and just have a lot of respect for him. He is just so gutsy and the way -- he is
a standup guy as well. The way he handled himself last year in the World Series, in a
tough time, and the way he has turned the season around this year, he is hot. He is a good
pitcher, quality pitcher, and he is pitching right now.

Q. Any difference pitching a 6th game up 3-2 as opposed to down 2-3 in terms of how
aggressive you can be?

DAVID CONE: Well, if there is -- I think it is kind of minute. Momentum can swing in
one game if they push it to game 7, the momentum might swing back to them. I am sure they
feel like they can push it to Game 7. They probably like their chances if they do. I still
view it as a must-win. We have got to do it now. Got the opportunity now, we can't let it
slip away. If it does go to Game 7, who knows what can happen.

Q. How will you spend the time between now and tomorrow's game?

DAVID CONE: Well, it is kind of nice for me to have the off day. We can kind of relax,
you know, nothing against Cleveland, or the Marriott Hotel there, but I was getting kind
of tired staying in that place. It is nice to come home and sleep in your own bed; get a
good meal; spend a little time with the family and you know, just -- it is a nice balance
to have where you can just relax a little bit and prepare for the game.

Q. David Wells said he was surprised to see the bottom third of the Indians order
yesterday. Are you going in this start expecting to see Alomar and Justice in the game and
if not, what kind of advantage is it for a veteran pitcher to face young guys?

DAVID CONE: I totally expect to see them out there. I haven't even gotten to Plan B.. I
just anticipate they will be there. Those guys are gamers. Cleveland is not going to go
down without a fight. They are not going to lay down for us. I anticipate those guys being
there. If they are not and there is a couple of rookies in there, usually that works to a
veteran pitcher's advantage but sometimes that is the kiss of death too. Sometimes those
guys sneak in there and hurt you. I don't take anything for granted, but I think expect to
see them at full strength.

Q. With Boomer's remarks about the Cleveland fans, is that a danger that it is even
going to send the fans here in hyper drive tomorrow?

DAVID CONE: More so than normal? It is tough to say. It is kind of you ironic to hear
Yankee players talking about opposing fans. I found that very ironic. I guess maybe some
of the comments about his mom set him off a little bit. I thought Cleveland fans were
really, end of the game, they have great fans there. I don't know what was said on a
personal note and there is no place for that in any ballpark, but they really support
their team. They have an incredible run going on there with all the sellouts and the way
they support their team. It is good for baseball. It is a good baseball town.

Q. Unlike the regular season where you may not face a team, could be two or three
weeks, when you face the same team on a Wednesday and then come back and face them again
on a Tuesday, is there -- does that -- is there something that you remember from the
Wednesday or something you don't do or, I mean, just an unusual situation?

DAVID CONE: Well, Warner, you are right. I think the degree of difficulty is much
tougher. It is much higher the second time and for a pitcher, I think hitters make
adjustments. They have the advantage of video, they can go back and look at patterns, look
at pitches, look for tips. Sometimes the element of surprise is kind of lost the second
time around. I think it is much tougher for the pitchers. I think it will be tougher for
Charlie and myself going out there and try to duplicate what we did the last time around.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT