LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 4, 2020
JaMychal Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. JaMychal, just wondering where does Kawhi rank among the sort of calming presences that you've played around?  It seems like the team is always calm around him no matter the situation.
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   He's probably the calmest player I've been around.  Seems like he doesn't sweat.  He just be out there doing his own little thing.
Q. Doc was talking a bit about how he wants guys to be themselves.  Did you have any conversations like that with him when you arrived in LA, and what does that mean to you?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   Yeah, we had a conversation with him last season when we first got here, and that meant a lot.  It's kind of like you could play free out there and just be yourself, just don't overdo things and just play your role.
Q. You guys have been here for a while now, and given that, have there been any interesting interactions with any other teams at the hotel or just every day in the bubble?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   It's weird walking around and seeing teams you matched up against, and you're getting on elevators, you're with players that you have played against.  Most of all I've been in my room, but it is weird bumping into guys like that.
Q. Any examples jump out to you of that?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   Just on the elevator with Denver right before we played them.  We're going to have to see each other.
Q. JaMychal, Doc was just talking about Kawhi's leadership and how quiet he is reminds him of Patrick Ewing and how he didn't say much but when he does everybody listens.  In what ways has Kawhi kind of been a leader off the court?  What kind of things has he done to lead you guys?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   Off the court?  I mean, off the court -- I don't know how to answer that question.  I'm not sure.
Q. In what ways has he been a leader?  It could be on the court or off the court.
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   On the court, just leading by example.  We're communicating better.  Everybody is communicating better defensively, but he's just setting the tone offensively and defensively, getting the team going.
Q. Both Pat and Doc were complimenting Trez on how he handled the first round, the first series and kind of how he had fewer minutes and also having to come back after not having played in so long.  What did you see from him in that first series and how he kind of accepted everything?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   Just being a professional.  He knew he was gone for a minute.  He had to get his rhythm back.  I think he's starting to get his rhythm back.  He showed that last game.  We need him down the stretch.  But he came back with the right attitude.
Q. How do you think you guys have evolved as a team from the first round to the second round right now even though it's a little bit early?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   First round was a good test for us.  We seen that nothing is going to be easy.  Or just watching Denver and Utah series and OKC and Houston, it's competitive.  We knew we had to come out here first, and I thought we did a great job of that last night.
Q. I want to ask you about the combination of Patrick Beverley and Marcus Morris, Sr.  Is this kind of what you expected to see from them knowing the two of them, last night's performance when you guys come together?  Seemed like a lot of things clicked for you guys, and the tenacity and the toughness that they bring to the court?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   The two of them have been playing well since he joined us.  And having Pat back, it's a big difference for the team, as far as his tenacity and the way he brings the energy defensively and just setting the tone for the team.  It's contagious, and it feeds into everybody, and it's great having him back.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT