LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 25, 2020
JaMychal Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clippers - 105, Wizards - 100
Q. My question is when you guys only have 10 players at practice, how does that affect the players and what you guys are trying to do?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   We're all about the next man stepping up.  We have a deep team, so everybody just got to do their jobs and we'll be on the same page.
Q. A lot has been made this year about playing you at the 5 with small-ball lineups, spacing the floor out.  I was wondering, what was it like out there for you tonight with that small-ball unit?  And then another one on the side, I saw you and Jerome Robinson had a little exchange at halftime.  What was that like seeing your old teammate?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   That's one of my guys that was on the team before he got traded.  I played great defense on him.  He made a tough shot.  We were both there, locking it up, and he got licked.
But as far as playing the 5, it's something I've been doing all my life, high school, AAU, college.  I'm familiar with it.  But I just added this in the range, so just a different game I'm playing now.
Q. Talking about that depth, Rodney looks like he's really confident offensively.  What have you seen from him since you guys got back together?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   Work.  He's been in the gym, getting extra work in, going hard at practice, getting work done at practice, so he's all about work.
Q. You sort of talked about it, but you came in late and different guys are coming in different times.  What does that do as far as implementing schemes?  How hard is that with the season bearing down on you?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   It's hard right now.  We've got a lot of players that's going through a lot right now.  2020 has just been a horrible year.  We just try to take it one day at a time and just using what we got so far.  Our players are coming back, they're going to rejoin us, but it's going to take time.
Q. There's been a lot of talk about how Noah is like a veteran leader for a lot of the big men on the team.  Has there been any kind of relationship developing with you guys?  Has he been giving you any kind of pointers or anything like that?
JAMYCHAL GREEN:   We was teammates in Memphis, so we already knew each other.  He's a great OG.  He's always giving wisdom, and just the energy that he has, he's another Pat Beverley.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT