LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 15, 2020
JaMychal Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. What was the hiatus like for you being away from the game and just keeping in contact with your teammates?  And then in terms of your health, how are you health-wise?  I don't know if you have any nicks and bruises from before.
 JAMYCHAL GREEN:   I'm great health-wise.  Just had some family issues.  But been taking that one day at a time.  Just happy to be back with my teammates.
 Q. I just wanted to know, I know you're such a great family man; what was the decision process just talking to your family to be away from them during this time going to Orlando?
 JAMYCHAL GREEN:   It was tough.  I'm going to miss my kids, my girlfriend, and just my family, period.  My son, he just turned one, so it was great spending time with him the way I did, so I'm definitely going to miss him.  But it wasn't hard.  My grandma died, so I had to go home just to be around my family.  Other than that, it's pretty much a no-brainer for me to come out here and fight with my team.
 Q. I just want to know what was your reaction when you first got to the bubble?  Guys seemed to have different reactions across the board.  What did it feel like to you to reunite with your team in the bubble?
 JAMYCHAL GREEN:   When I first got here, I pretty much kind of had a feel for it, calling Trez, FaceTime, showing me, showing me the rooms, and the team was just telling me what their split came in, and everything is going great so far.  Just got cleared this morning, so I'm just ready to get going.
 Q. Last year in the Playoffs obviously you kind of changed the series.  Do you think about your impact that last year and how it can allow you to come back this year in this scenario and make an impact for the Clippers?
 JAMYCHAL GREEN:   Yes, most definitely.  I kind of go back on YouTube just to watch it and just see the feel I had for the game.  I played hard, and I want to come out strong to help the team in any way I can.
 Q. I'm curious, you were late to join everybody.  How much of the bubble -- you mentioned FaceTiming.  How much of it came from seeing other people's Instagram posts and stuff?  It seems like everybody in this league is posting what they're doing at all times.  Have you paid attention to any of that?  Have you seen anything?
 JAMYCHAL GREEN:   Not really.  If it ain't about the Clippers, I haven't been paying attention to it.  We've got a group text, and we're just texting everything in the group, just getting me prepared for when I get here, so that's all I need.
 Q. I know you're big into community, do a lot of things for the community.  I'd like to ask you about the BLM initiative that the NBA has set.  Do you feel that's enough given the message to the community, given the message -- the initiative?  Do you feel that's enough?  If not, what else would you like to see done?
 JAMYCHAL GREEN:   No, I don't feel like it's enough.  It's a great start.  I feel like it's a lot of work to be done, and I don't think it will change overnight, so it's going to take time.
 Q. What do you think will be just like the biggest challenge of kind of a pause-restart of the season?  Is it the conditioning, getting the chemistry back?  You guys were kind of rolling when the season got suspended.
 JAMYCHAL GREEN:   Yeah, I'd say conditioning and getting that chemistry.  I feel like we were just getting strong as a team.  We was hitting on all cylinders.  But it's a minor setback and it's just like a new fresh start for us.  Everybody is healthy, so that's great.  So we've just got to get it back going.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT