AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 4, 2019
Marwin Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Marwin, could you tell us the positive influence Nelson Cruz has been this year?
MARWIN GONZALEZ: Well, he's unbelievable in the clubhouse. He does a tremendous job. Since day one, he put everybody together. He talks to everybody, like giving advice to whoever needs it. So that's been all season long, and he has been positive all year long. So I think that's a big thing.
Q. Marwin, what does it mean for the team to have Luis Arraez in the lineup after it looked like that wasn't going to happen last week?
MARWIN GONZALEZ: That's big. That's huge for us. Everybody knows how much he gets on base, and then all the quality at-bats that he takes. We need him in the lineup. Then he's been great all season long, and I think he's going to be great this series, too.
Q. You've played postseason games for the visiting team here before. Are you telling your new teammates anything about how to sort of manage that?
MARWIN GONZALEZ: Not really. I think like they know how to handle pressure, and they've been playing like high-level baseball for so long. So I didn't want to tell them and get them out of their mindset. So they're ready to go. It's exciting. I think it's exciting for everybody, even for me. I think every time you get to this ballpark and to this situation, I say -- I told the whole team that it doesn't matter that we're here. It doesn't matter what ballpark we're playing in, the fans are going to let you know that you're in the wrong ballpark in the wrong place if you're playing on the visiting side. So it doesn't matter if we're playing here, Boston, Houston, for example.
Q. Marwin, how helpful -- you guys were able to keep winning down the stretch, but how helpful was it for you and max to be rested and to get to this point?
MARWIN GONZALEZ: That was a good thing. That shows a lot how capable this team is to win when it was a different lineup pretty much every day and we were winning ball games. But at the same time, we didn't want the rest. Kepler and myself, we wanted to be there and get some at-bats to get to this point and contribute to the team. But that was huge. That gave Rocco some confidence because the guys that were in the lineup were winning ball games. So it didn't matter.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT