WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 6, 2021
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Seen some of the good Jordan and some of the bad Jordan.  How good was today?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, I mean, shot 10-under par.  I mean, he kicked my ass.  I mean, you know, it was vintage Jordan to a certain degree.  Made a lot putts.  Made some long bombs which he's normally used to.  Got up and down and chipped in a couple times or chipped in once, and he still hit a couple bad shots but got away with them and made birdie from them.
 So, I mean, it sort of is vintage Jordan a little bit to a certain degree, and he's really close to I think with his swing to being automatic.  So it's a few loose ones, but I played with him for the last three days and it was a lot of positive signs there.  He's doing a lot of really good stuff with his game of golf.
 So I guess the golf world is very -- would be very pleased and very happy to know that maybe the old Jordan could be coming back here soon.
 Q. Do you think fans maybe willed some of those in with him?  What was that like?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   I don't know.  I mean, if fans can will putts in, then there was a couple this went in for him.  But, I mean, he's such a great putter.  You get him on the greens and he thinks I can make it from anywhere, and he's done it before so it's not shocking.
 I think when we come in there is was a lot of support for Jordan, which is not unusual, and it was pretty exciting to see just old Jordan.  You could see it in his eyes, the way his demeanor.  You could see the way the fans are really pulling for him, and they have been pulling for the last three days, so it's been pretty impressive to see.
 Q. What did you think of scene there on 17 with the fan kind of heckling him and then he makes it?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   I don't know that the fan was heckling him.  I don't know what he was saying.  I couldn't understand.  There was a fan that heckled him that was sort of doing that on 14, you know, just taking it a little too far.  He kept going and I had to tell him to shut the hell up.  I was trying to putt a little bit.  But just getting to a point like, Dude, just shut the hell up.
 No, I tell you what, it's nice to have fans back out.  The energy that we all feel from them and we all sort of feed off, Jordan did an unbelievable job of that.
 It's nice to have applause.  Yeah, it's a little rowdy here which we're normally used to, and it was funny to see the guy break the chair.  I don't know why he got kicked out.  I was focused on my putt.
 But, I mean, sort of funny to see him break his chair and fall down.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT