BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2014
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Nice solid round today.  Talk about your round today?BILLY HORSCHEL: Today was a great round.  Obviously we now the course was going to be completely different than yesterday, with the rain we had last night.  And then to get out here and wind with was blowing a little bit harder than yesterday, a little bit different direction. So the course has changed almost like a 180 type deal and we did a good job of committing to what we needed to do and playing some good golf. I played really good to start off my first nine holes.  I birdied 11, I had really good looks at 12, 13, 14, and 15.  And then didn't make them. 17, bad par there.  I hit it just over the water and duffed a chip. And obviously 18 was nice to make that 40-footer.  Obviously, I was just hoping to get away with a 2-putt and to make that long putt, you know, sort of helped me going to the front side. The front side I may not have been as clean as the back, but when you're up there on the leaderboard, you don't need to do anything spectacular you just need to keep making pars and not put yourself in any trouble.Q. What is it about you and tough golf courses that you love so much?BILLY HORSCHEL: I just think that I'm just maybe a little bit more mentally stronger than some guys type deal.  I don't know.  I just love tough golf courses, it's a challenge and I see it as a challenge and other guys may, sometimes, may complain about that, but I don't. I just love the challenge that it brings and I'm a really good ball-striker and I think when you play tough golf courses, I think that ball striking really comes to the forefront.  Obviously, I'm making some putts this week, which is nice.Q. You talk about getting on a roll.  What's clicked in the last week and a half?BILLY HORSCHEL: I missed the cut at Barclays and I flew home Friday night and I was sort of, I took the two days just to think about some stuff that I've done the last couple weeks.  Because the game wasn't really that bad and I wasn't getting anything out of it. So I just came to the realization that I was being a little too hard on myself, just looking for, I don't want to say perfection, maybe a little bit perfection, but when things weren't going right, I was getting a little upset too easily. And so I just said, I just need to be a little bit more committed and probably because I haven't been nearly as committed on my golf shots as I wanted, so just being a little more committed and trusting what I do and it just seems that it turned out a lot better.  I'm not nearly as frustrated when I hit a bad shot.  I know that it happens and sort of get out of my own way like I did last year when I played well.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT