TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 13, 2014
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Billy Horschel, thanks so much for joining us today.   You finished at 1‑under to bring you to minus 9 going into Sunday.   Just your thoughts on the round.  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah.   It's going to be an exciting day.   Obviously, you know, in the middle of the year, I'm not sure, you know, if you told me I would have a chance on Sunday to win the TOUR Championship and possibly FedExCup and do it while going up against the best player in our game right now.   So no matter what happens, no matter how it turns out, it's going to be an exciting day and hopefully Rory and I can put on a great show for you all.   
MODERATOR:   Questions?   
   
 Q.   You kind of got yourself into a situation where you were ahead by a little bit, and then fell back.   What did you do to turn that around?   Is this just part of you being a fighter?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah.   Unfortunately, I played the best I have all week on the front side, shooting 3‑over.   
And I go to the back side where I've played really well, and I made a bad swing at 10, had chances at 11 and 12 to right the wrong, and I knew I had‑‑ I think on number‑‑ when I looked at the scoreboard on 11, I just happened to take a peek at it, three‑shot lead and I sort of said, okay, let's see if we can put this thing somewhat out of reach.   And unfortunately I just made a couple of bad swings with my driver, temper got a little off, and it was a little bit of a battle coming in and Rory played beautifully coming in.   So that's the way things are going to go.   
You're not going to play a perfect 72‑hole tournament, and hopefully I played my bad nine holes and I have one great 18‑hole stretch of golf left in me after these last three weeks.   
   
 Q.   Well, is there any chance of you winning tomorrow might induce labor?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   (Laughs).   You know what, I thought about that.   There could be a chance.   I'm sure if I do win, there's going to be a lot of excitement at the house.   I know last week, my wife and her mom were watching and a neighbor, one of our good friends came over and next thing you know a couple more people wind up coming over unannounced.   It's not the first time it's happened, but there will be people, I'm sure, at my house watching and making sure Brittany is handling everything and it's okay.   Hey, you never know, it could induce labor but maybe that's a good thing.   Maybe I'll have time to get home for the birth.  
   
 Q.   How hard is it to not think about the 10 million dollars?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Honestly, you know, I've been honest with you guys this whole week, it's tough.   It's not the easiest thing in the world.   You know what all that money can do for you and it can do for my family and everyone else that's near me, but at the same time whenever I think about that, I've gotta understand that for me to reach that goal, I have to win the TOUR Championship.   That's my mindset, I have to win the TOUR Championship to win that 10 million dollars.   
So all I'm trying to focus on is trying to win another golf tournament, and you know, divert my focus back to the TOUR Championship and not the FedExCup and the 10 million dollars.  
   
 Q.   Based off of your year and how it's ending, do you think that this will make your next year better?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I hope so.   I hope I don't wait till then to turn things on.   Hopefully I have a better year.   Hopefully I play the majors better.   Hopefully I play the‑‑ when I play the WGC events, hopefully I do a better job of competing in those.   
I think these last three weeks have been a bright spot in the sense that results have finally shown up.   I felt like I've been getting better all year as a player.   I felt like we've been doing the right things, just the results sometimes don't always show up on the golf course.   
So hopefully these next three weeks‑‑ or these last three weeks can sort of take me to that next level, let me keep on climbing up the mountain and see how high I can go.  
   
 Q.   How pumped are you at the prospect of playing 18 more holes with the No. 1 player in the world and then going way down the stretch for‑‑ not head to head, obviously there's other players in the field but there will be a little bit of that aspect to it?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah.   Can we just go ahead and tee it up right now?   I mean seriously.   I'm serious.   I would love to go tee it up right now.   It would help me out a lot.  
But listen, it's going to be exciting.   I'm going to have fun out there.   It's going to be an exciting day.   Like I said, I hope‑‑ I know there's some other guys in the mix that are behind us, but they gotta come catch us.   We got, I think, a two‑shot lead over Furyk maybe and a three‑ or four‑shot lead over some other guys.   So we got somewhat of a cushion and hopefully we can put on a great show.   Hopefully we can shoot some really low scores and see what happens on 18.  
   
 Q.   Billy, based on that, how do you keep yourself from feeling like it's a Match Play situation tomorrow?   How do you keep yourself from just looking at Rory as the only other opponent out there?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   You know, I think I'm just going to really focus on myself the first nine holes, really get into my zone, really get into my comfort place and try and play the first nine holes the best I can, and then I'll see where that puts me when I make the turn.   
If I feel like‑‑ if I'm three or four under, I'm not going to look.   Obviously I can judge by Rory because he's playing with me, but I'm not going to look at what everyone else is doing.   If I'm three or four under, I'm going to think, man, I probably am leading.   I probably got a good lead and let's just put the pedal down to the medal and sprint to the finish.   
   
 Q.   I think Gary Woodland ended up being 7‑under today.   Did you see that kind of a score out there?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah.   I mean this course is very‑‑ it's gettable.   You have to hit the right shots and you have to make the putts.   But I think that score is easily gettable out here, and 7‑under does not shock me, especially with how talented and how much power he has.   I mean he can easily get to both the par‑5s in two, as the majority of the field, but some of the longer holes he can make them into flip wedges.   Gary is a great player.   I think I played with him this year at Palm Springs and he shot ‑‑ I think maybe shot a 62 or 63 in there and he just made it look easy.   I mean he could have shot a lot lower.   But he's a talented guy, and it does not shock me that he shot 7‑under.   
MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT