DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2014
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BILLY HORSCHEL: I made bogey at No. 8.  My 17th hole I hit a really good iron shot that I thought was going to be close and came up really short of the green. Really good playing today, especially when the wind picked up on my last nine holes.  I think it's going to be a little tougher out there.  I'll take a couple more rounds of 5-under par here and be very happy.Q. Putting back-to-back solid rounds together, but you haven't quite had the season you wanted.  What does that do for you not only through this championship but for the rest of the year?BILLY HORSCHEL: You know, I feel like I've been doing a lot of good stuff the last few months.  The practice has seen some good results.  And I just haven't really taken it out on the golf course.  Missing the cut last week was very disappointing.  So I had a couple of days, I went home, saw my wife.  I just thought about some stuff that felt I could do better on the golf course and being more focused, and just sort of not allowing it to happen.  Being more focused on the shots I want to hit and everything, and it sort of paid off this week, which gives me the confidence.  I feel good about my game, it's just confidence to keep committing to what I'm doing.Q. Great round of golf today.  That shot you hit at No. 8, I want to ask you, because the winds are swirling and bumping around.  When you hit it did you think it was pretty good?BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, it was 65 to the front edge, and I hit 9-iron about 55, but it felt like it was going straight downwind.  I felt pretty good the way I've been hitting, striking it well.  I thought it was a nice, solid 9-iron, get it up in the air and allow the wind to carry it.  When it came off, it was right at the flag and I thought, man, this is going to be pretty good.  And to see it come up that far short was a little shocking.  Maybe the wind switched, it's been doing that all day, and the last couple of days.  It was a good round of golf.  I was a little disappointed to make a bogey on the last hole, my 17th hole, the 8th hole.Q. The last shot was sweet.  You couldn't see it, could you, from your angle?BILLY HORSCHEL: No, I knew it was coming down close.  I knew it was nice, I just hit 9-iron before and it came up short.  But this was a better number.  It was a full 9-iron, 56 yards to 156 to the pin, so I just said, put another good swing on it, and hopefully this one turns out better, and it did.  Honestly I knew it was close, and by the crowd's reaction, it sounded like it may have had a chance to go in or almost went in.Q. How about the golf course?  It's playing tough with the firmness.  This is a golf course where everyone thinks they need to shoot 5-under every day, that's not the case this week.BILLY HORSCHEL: I love it.  Sometimes I hate shootouts, because I don't think it figures out who the best player is that week.  But this week you've got to really bring your game, with the greens being so firm and the rough not being too bad, but you've got to judge it, and you can't stop it on the green. I love the golf course playing like this.  I know we're supposed to get some rain the next couple of days, so hopefully not too much.  But it's a great golf course, especially when it's playing like this.Q. College football, tell me about it.  You've got a big smile on your face, are you looking forward to the season?BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, obviously the Florida Gators, we're going to make a turnaround this year.  Obviously last year at this point there were a lot of injuries.  But the people I've talked to, spring ball and training camp before the season here has been going well.  And Kurt Roper is doing a good job. And I've got several bets with several people and players that we're going to at least go 8 and 4, or at least have eight wins or better.  I don't remember who they are with and I don't remember the value or the amount of them, but I'm just hoping that at least we cover eight wins.  And I think we are.  I think we're going to surprise some people this year.  I'm really excited about this season.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT