BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2014
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  BILLY HORSCHEL: Inside 10 feet I'm a really good putter.  Stats bear that. I could have made it a little bit easier on some lag putts.  Hit some iron shots today that didn't turn out well and some chips.  But, just determination and the will not to quit, to get the job done.   Q.  You look back earlier this year, you weren't playing real well, what turned around for you?  BILLY HORSCHEL: The missed cut at Barclays.  I was able to go home, see my wife.  We talked about a couple things.  That's where I figured out a couple things on the flight home, mentally, what I needed to do better. And with her being a golfer, played at University of Florida, so she's really good.  I think she's really good mentally.  I just talked to her about a couple things I was doing, and she said I needed to get back to what I was doing last year a little bit.   Q.  You head into the TOUR Championship No. 2 on the points list.  You control your destiny.  How good a feeling is that?  BILLY HORSCHEL: That's great.  When you can be top-5 and control your own destiny, that's great. I can't even think about that right now.  I'm so ecstatic to finally get a win.  It's been a tough year, and I battled all day to get that victory.   Q.  It seems only fitting for a guy that drives a BMW to win the BMW Championship.  Congratulations.  BILLY HORSCHEL: Thank you.   Q.  (No Microphone.)  BILLY HORSCHEL: I stuck to it, for the most part.  I hit one bad shot on No. 6.  A bad iron shot. But, other than that, I did a lot of good things.  I just didn't hit the ball as well as I would have liked. But I did hit some good shots on the front.  I knew that I had the lead.  Everyone had to come chase me.  So as long as I kept making pars and not giving shots back to the field, I was going to be tough to catch.   Q.  We spoke on Tuesday.  You were filled with confidence.  You all but told me that you expected to play well.  When did you learn that things were going to carry over this week?  BILLY HORSCHEL: When I'm playing well, I feel like I carry it over really well.  There was no disappointment from last week after the 6-iron, but it's just belief in myself and confidence that I can get over something like that and carry it on to another week and take it as a new week.   Q.  (No Microphone.)  BILLY HORSCHEL: I'm a lot better player than I was six months ago.  I understand my game a lot better. I'm working on my weaknesses, on my short game and my wedges.  My caddie is a lot better.  My stats guy -- we have worked hard to become better players and do the right thing course management wise.  And this is just another stepping stone to hopefully a lot bigger things in the future.   Q.  What made you successful here this week?  BILLY HORSCHEL: I think you just look at it, it's obvious my putting.  I made a lot of putts this week and something I haven't been doing all year.  So it was huge to rely on the putter when it hasn't shown up as much as I would have liked.   Q.  (No Microphone.)  BILLY HORSCHEL: Just keep doing the same thing.  Don't change anything.  I warmed up really well and I felt I was going to play a really good round.  I started off okay, but the swing didn't feel good, felt a little quick, and that's what happens when you get in a situation like this.  I was able to grind it out.  Grind some pars out and finish it off.   Q.  (No Microphone.)  BILLY HORSCHEL: The course is good.  Hopefully we can come back in the future.  Hopefully this is a Regular Tour out here in Denver, because a lot of fans came out this weekend and supported us.  So hopefully we can get another PGA TOUR event back here, because it's a great place.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT