DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2014
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BILLY HORSCHEL: I really thought when Chris missed his birdie I thought I was going to hit it on the green.  I thought I was going to make the putt and make the eagle and win it out right.  But just wasn't my day, I guess.  Obviously to hit that bad a shot.   Q.  How much positive do you take away knowing now that you are 20th in the FedExCup points going to Denver?  BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, I'm pretty pissed off about that, because making that bogey, I think, sort of dropped me outside of possibly the top-10 in the FedEx.  I could have secured my spot just a little bit better.  But it's nice.  Obviously I came in, I had to play well this week to get to Denver and I put myself in a position to get to Atlanta and put myself in a position to win a million dollars.  There's always a lot of positives to take away from this week.  First time I've been in this position all year.  I handled myself.  I stayed calm.  Stayed patient.  Played well.  Made one big swing, and it happens to come on the last hole.  Maybe if it comes earlier in the round I have time to recover from it.  I'm excited about the next two weeks and the rest of this year.   Q.  Billy, I know you're disappointed, but I can't help observe the fact that you were just magnificent from tee to green the entire day up there to 18.  BILLY HORSCHEL: I did hit it really well.  The last two days I haven't felt great with my golf swing.  I felt like it was a little loose from the first two rounds, but I just tried to keep a really good tempo, and just tried not to do anything crazy with it.  And played really good from tee to green, was smart with some shots and hit that one on the last hole, sort of fortunate because I should be in a playoff right now.   Q.  You obviously must be feeling pretty good?  BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, I feel really great about where my game is finally starting to show up.  It was nothing technical or mechanical in my game, it was just a mindset to get back.  I did a good job of it this weekend. I'm excited about the next two weeks and the rest of this year.  There's still a lot of golf to be played beyond the FedExCup.  And we'll see what happens.  I'm happy where my game is and decided to show up.  Maybe I'll get that victory next weekend and it will be even better.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT