RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2014
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round today.   How do you feel about it?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I feel pretty good.   Obviously the conditions are tough out here with the wind blowing the way it is.   To shoot 2‑under, it's pretty solid.   Anything around par is a good round.
Unfortunately I missed a couple of putts for pars.   A couple of makeable birdie putts out there that could have been a little better, but it's nice to finally play a solid first round.   It's been a while since I've really played a first round.   I'm off to a good start.

Q.   Talk a little bit about your position.   Conditions might be a little worse tomorrow than today.   Talk about tomorrow's round. 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   You know what, I'm not sure‑‑ I know it's going to be bad tomorrow.   I'm not sure if I'm even good to play.   If it rains early in the morning and it's supposed to rain all day, the greens may not be playable with a lot of water on it.   I don't know.   I obviously can't predict the forecast.   So you've just got to prepare that the weather could be bad and go about it that way. 

Q.   What does it do for you mentally?   Does it affect you at all that you may have to pause and restart another day?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   It affects the other guys more than me.   Everyone, if they're smart enough, tries to prepare for the worst day, at least you don't get caught off guard.   I'm preparing for any possible outcome tomorrow and we'll just see what happens.

Q.   Take us through your birdies today, or at least ones that stand out. 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I birdied 2, par‑5.   That's one you've got to get today with the wind the way it is down off to the left.   Birdied 4, hit it to about 18 feet and made it, maybe 20 feet.
Had an opportunity for birdie‑‑ just slipped out birdie at 5.
I bogeyed No. 8.   That hole is playing long.   I think the tee should be moved up.   But it's just a long hole today.   Hit it short right of the green, hit a better chip, but it came out faster than I thought and missed it.
Hit it to a foot on No. 9.
10 I had it to about ten feet and missed it.
11 left it dead center short.
12 I hit it about 25 feet on the green, and somehow the ball didn't go into the hole.   Did a 360 on me.
Birdied the next hole, 13, especially going into 14.   Hit it to about 8 feet there and made the putt.
Good par on 14 and 15.   Hit it to six feet on 16 and missed it.   I think the wind pushed it out of the hole.
Made a good one on No. 17 from about, probably 20 feet.
And then the last one I hit a good putt right where I wanted, just didn't move.   I saw Carl's putt and his putt broke across the hole. 
So overall solid day.   Could have been better.   But I put a new putter in my bag and it's sort of working out well so far.

Q.   What did you put in?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I put a new Ping Karsten TR B60.   My putter just didn't look right to me anymore.   I felt like I needed to switch.   This B60 really looks good to my eye right now. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT