FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 6, 2014
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thank you, Billy Horschel.   One of the fortunate guys that is in the house here on Friday with two rounds in.   Little bit back of where Ben Crane finished but certainly a good start to your FedEx St. Jude.  
    BILLY HORSCHEL:   I played really solid.   I just continued a lot of solid play that I've -- ball striking I've had this year.   Obviously it's the strong part of my game.   And couple more putts started to drop but not enough.   I could easily be five, six better.   
    But, all in all, you know the 5-under, that's two rounds on this golf course which is -- it's a good test of golf.   It's not easy even though we had easy conditions yesterday when that storm came through.   Still, like I said, Ben is playing well but they don't award a trophy after two rounds.  
   
 Q.   Everyone is talking about the greens and how good they are.   Is there any adjustment to the speed given the rain that we've had?  
    BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yesterday before we went out they were really fast and firm and they got a little bit softer after the rain and a little bit slower as day wore on.   
    I think you're going to see this today with the guys today.   Putts into your grain are going to be a little slow and puts down grain not as fast.   Everyone has got the adjust to it and it's just seems like the guys who adjust play better.  
   
 Q.   Little bit of trivia, no one has won a tournament before the U.S. Open and then won the U.S. Open.   
    Does that mean anything to you?  
    BILLY HORSCHEL:   I'm a Red Sox fans.   They broke the jinx back before and I know no one has won the par 3 in the Masters and things are meant to be broken -- you know, it's a media thing.   When someone does it, whether they win before the par 3 event and get near the lead on the weekend you guys start asking questions about it.   It gets in all our mind a little bit.   
    I'm trying to play this weekend.   I would love to get a victory here and go to the U.S. Open on a high note because, obviously, there's no better way to go into the U.S. Open than with a victory in my mind.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your round coming off yesterday and then playing today.  
    BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, you know, when we can play rounds back to back -- obviously we had a delay and knew we couldn't finish yesterday.   So it's nice not to be waiting yesterday afternoon and all of this afternoon, probably late possibly.   
    Keep a round going from first round to the second round is always a good thing especially playing good first round like I did yesterday.   So, I did a lot of good things today.   Could have drove the ball a little better but hit a lot of good iron shots.   
    Got up and down on a regular basis except for the one on 17.   The only thing is I just wish I could make some more putts.   Finished some good putts.   Speed was a bit off.   Missing them on the high side of the lip.  
    And that's all I've been looking for for this whole year is get the putter hot.   I can get anywhere near what it was the first six months of last year there's going to be some good stuff.  
   
 Q.   As you sit here and look at 5-under, Ben has distanced himself a little bit.   As you go into the weekend now this course has a way of bringing guys not only back to the pack but also there's birdies to be had as you said if you get a putter hot.  
    BILLY HORSCHEL:   Obviously you have to be smart on this golf course and, you know, you start being aggressive and attack the flag it can kick you in the butt really quickly.   
    You know, Ben has played good the first two days, no doubt about it.   But, like I said, they don't award a tournament, a winner, a trophy after 36 holes.   
    He's probably had a hot putter.   He's done a lot of good things exceptionally well compared to everyone else in the field.   Sometimes that has a way of coming back to the field.   
    It's tough to make a ton of putts for four days in a row or hit it so close for four days in a row.   You're going to have one of those days where it may not work out the way it should and so I'm not too worried.   
    Ben is going to play what he's going to do, I'm going to do my game and we'll see what happens after Sunday.  
   
 Q.   You guys are a tight-knit community.   What Ben went through on his back where he said he may not play again, to see him play how well he's playing, I know you guys are ata boy because you guys are so tight as a group.  
    BILLY HORSCHEL:   There's a lot of guys that have gone through adversity, whether it be injuries or personal stuff.   So, when you see someone goes through that and they're able to get back and play some good golf and get back into just the life of golf, focus of a job, it's good to see Ben back.   He's a great guy.   I know he's had back issues for awhile now.   It's good for him to be back out here and playing well.   That's good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT