VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 7, 2013
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BILLY HORSCHEL:   It's satisfying that I had a chance to win, but at this point‑‑ I mean, I hit it awful on the first nine holes.   I mean, there was no wind, and I had to take advantage of it, and I didn't do a very good job of it.   I hit it very pathetic in my mind, sort of what it was like in Florida a little bit.   And it was disappointing, very disappointing. 
I mean, my putter saved me a lot.   I just kept saying that, next shot we're going to get it going.   Next shot we're going to get it going.   Never got it going until maybe a little bit on the backside, and even at that it didn't feel great. 
But, yeah, it was a great weekend for Martin.   I just realized he shot 63.   I shot 1‑under.   I had a 2‑shot lead, so somebody would have had to shoot at least 3 or better to come get me, and then obviously someone shot 9‑under.   So you've got to tip your hat to him because that's pretty good playing.

Q.   We talked yesterday about limiting your distractions and focusing on your own game.   How do you feel you did that today? 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I did a good job of it.   I wasn't too worried about anything.   I didn't worry about what other people were doing.   I knew people were making birdies, but what it came down to is I just hit it very, very bad.   I sort of warmed up, and it was halfway decent, but my timing was a little quick and I got quick on the golf course. 
Just there is a lot of good that came from this week, and there is a lot of stuff that I can go and learn from.   I think me and Todd can work on figuring out what I can do.   Timing‑wise, I need to figure that out, because that's what's killing me a little bit, I think. 
But I hung in there.   I could have easily gotten upset.   I could have let how bad I was hitting it affect me, but I didn't.   I just kept doing what I could, and I tried my best.   I did.   I didn't give up.   It's just disappointing. 
But now I've got to go home for a week and work on some stuff and get ready for Hilton Head because there are a lot of good things I'm doing right now.   Just plugging along.   It's tough right now.

Q.   First time in a final pairing on the PGA TOUR ‑‑ 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Not my first time.

Q.   Second time? 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah.   Third time, actually.

Q.   How did you feel this morning with your lead? 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I felt like I do every morning, maybe just a little bit more.   I'm an intense player, so I knew I was going to feel butterflies.   I always feel a little antsy in the morning until I get to the golf course, and then I feel like now I'm here.   Now I can go through my preparation and get ready to play today.   I thought I handled this morning pretty well.   I didn't think about The Masters or what a win could do or anything.   I was just trying to get comfortable, get ready for what the day had in store. 
Like I said, I felt like I handled the whole situation today the best I have since I've been in this situation.   Actually, this is the fourth time, Torrey actually.   But I felt like I've handled the situation the best I have so far, and I think that's the best thing that could come out of the day.

Q.   Did you feel like you were able to play loose and free like you did the first three days? 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   The first couple holes I felt good, but I felt like I had jell‑o legs.   Like my legs weren't under me.   So I jumped around a little bit and tried to get some blood in there and get it flowing and everything.   I just felt very‑‑ I don't know.   I felt like jell‑o, everything felt jell‑o, probably because I was a little nervous and everything. 
But I still hit good shots when I was nervous.   I just‑‑ I felt okay though.   Nothing that I can't handle.   Nothing I wasn't prepared for and nothing I haven't had to handle before.   Everyone's going to have butterflies.   I don't care if it's Tiger Woods or Joe Schmo at the golf course, you're going to have butterflies, and you have to learn how to deal with it.   I felt like I dealt with it pretty well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT