FRYS.COM OPEN
October 12, 2012
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That shot at 17, I thought you were in serious trouble and you pulled off a miraculous second shot.   Tell me about it.
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, I just unfortunately pull‑hooked a 3‑wood.   Got over there and was in a little burrow, animal spot, and was lucky enough to get a drop. 
I had already played out of that kind of grass two times this week:   One in the practice round and one on No. 5 today.   It's not as bad it's looks.   It looks tall but it's dead and it comes out easy. 
I was into the left side of the green, had the face open, ans was just trying to swing as hard as I could and get it somewhere near the green and not have it go in the water. 
Came out perfect and obviously caught the backslope and rolled down to a couple feet.   It was more luck than skill.

Q.   That might make Sports Center's top 10.   That was a terrific shot.   No. 9 was a great bunker shot, too.   That kind of kick started the back nine for you. 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, it did.   I played well on the front.   Just left a couple birdie putts short.   Birdied No. 8.   Then I hit 5‑wood into No. 9.   I just blocked it out there in the bunker.   Luckily enough I had a downslope in the bunker so it made it easier to play a little chunk and run. 
Obviously just trying to get it within five, six feet.   Obviously a little tap‑in is a good shot.

Q.   Last year I followed you all four days at the McGladrey.   You were right there until Sunday.   Do you take anything from that experience that will help you this weekend?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, I've been in a couple other positions this year, Mississippi and couple other spots.   Just stay with my game, don't get too frustrated, and try slow my swing down the best I can because that's obviously my No. 1 fault.   I get a little too quick.
I'm just going to go play golf.   I can't do anything but that.   I just need to keep control of my emotions and I'll be just fine. 

Q.   How hard are you working on your game?   I know in the weight room you've been working out, and obviously on the course.   You put a lot work in. 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, I been, obviously with the break not getting in the playoffs, I've had six weeks off.   I played Boise and I played well there, so I been practicing pretty much every day doing something at least.
Got a new trainer, or got a trainer finally since high school.   Been a big help to me.   I've a little bit more speed in my swing that I lost when I had my wrist surgery.
I feel fitter and more comfortable with myself.   I feel like I've done everything you need to do to finally step into that winner's circle. 
Obviously a lot of golf still left to play.   I can't do anything but go out there and try and play my own game. 

Q.   Shot a nice round yesterday, come back and an even better round today.   Are there things you learn from a course the first day where you kind of make adjustments, or are you still just hitting the ball and playing the ball and...
BILLY HORSCHEL:   No, I think the big thing is I played here last year and it was a huge help.   Some of tee shots can be not too intimidating, but you just know where you can miss it.   They put the pins pretty much in the same spots that they do every year, so you're a little more familiar.
So I think it's more or less playing last year here.   It gives me a little more confidence.   And playing well, too.   I think I finished top 10.   I'm not exactly sure what.   That gives you more confidence coming into this week.

Q.   Fill me in on the wrist injury. 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I had a wrist injury 2010 right after I got my card.   Had to have surgery and was done for the year. 
It's been a while, but I don't feel any side effects.   It's just issue that came up a couple years ago. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT