THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 13, 2011
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A solid 64 in the opening round, 6-under par. That's a great start. 
 BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, it is. I've been carrying a lot of momentum and playing well the last couple months, and then obviously my teacher works out of here, Todd Anderson, and I've played a lot of golf up here for SEC Championships, so I know the course very well. So felt comfortable coming in. 
 So it was nice to actually conquer what you wanted to do, go out there and play well, because obviously there's a lot of pressure that can happen with my family being here and then just knowing the course. But it was good. It was a nice day out there.

 Q. I understand your front nine, the back nine, you made some really good saves to keep the momentum going?
 BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, I did. I just birdied No. 10, went to No. 11, had about a 25-footer and decided to hit it about nine feet by the hole and made that putt, which was nice. And then hit a bad wedge shot into No. 16, had about 100 yards and I hit it in the bunker, made about another nine-footer there for par.
 Then hit it in the bunker on No. 17, too, and made about a six-footer there for par. Making those putts were huge because my putting has been pretty good, but the path, the way it's been coming through, I've been pulling a couple putts, so it was awesome to trust my stroke and see the ball go in the hole.

 Q. Is the golf course getting a little more difficult as the day goes on?
 BILLY HORSCHEL: I think it is. This wind is tough. I've played here a lot, and this wind is very tough. 1 through 5 are tough holes with the way that the wind is blowing. It's blowing hard. And then if you can get through that stretch, you've got 6 through 9 which are a little bit easier, and then some back holes, back nine holes that are gettable. But it's getting a little bit tougher. The greens are firming up. The fairways are still soaking wet, but I think that's okay. 

 Q. All the Gator fans seemed happy in your gallery. Keep them happy this week. 
 BILLY HORSCHEL: I will. Obviously I'm helping the Florida Gators very hard up here in the Georgia Bulldog country. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT