WORKDAY CHARITY OPEN
July 12, 2020
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good finish; can you just talk about your round real quick?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, it was a really solid day.  I got off to a slow start.  I hit a lot of good shots early on and just didn't make any putts, then made some birdies with some accessible pin locations.  6 has had my number this week and I made another bogey there, and I then I hit a good drive at 7 to take advantage of that par-5.  But I walked off 7 green and I looked over at my caddie Fooch, and I just said Hey, listen, we're doing some good stuff, let's not change anything; let's keep trying to do what we've been doing all week; put one swing after another, and I just feel like if we do that it's going to come our way.  And it did, and it was nice.
 Q. What did you hit for your second shot on 12?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   It was 5-wood from 248.  Hit it nice and close.
 Q. As it applies to this week, a little bit of strange circumstances with this week and next week.  What will you do tomorrow, and do you feel like the golf course is getting closer to what it's going to be next week?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   I'm not doing anything tomorrow.  I have -- I'm opening up two poke restaurants here in Columbus, so I've got to go around tomorrow and look at the real estate sites and just see what the progress is on them.  My day is filled with off-course business, so it's going to be nice to take a day off, and then we'll work Tuesday and Wednesday.  Todd Anderson, my teacher, is coming into town Monday night, so we'll get a little bit of work Tuesday and Wednesday.  We need to tighten up the swing a little bit, tighten up the driver, the wedges a little bit.  Just be a little bit more -- just tighten everything up a little bit and we'll be good to go for Memorial.
 I played really good this week.  I was 4-over after five holes and I played really good after that, so doing some really good stuff, just some of my misses are a little too wide and Todd is going to come in and see something that I'm not, and it'll be fixed in a snap of the fingers.
 Q. What are your thoughts in having tournaments on the same course in back-to-back weeks?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   It's weird.  It's weird because I didn't pack up to leave after my round today, and so I'm in my hotel room for another seven days, but there's a lot worse places we could play for two weeks in a row, and for me, I love this place.  I've always played pretty well here at Muirfield, and I was excited when the schedule came out that we'd be playing two weeks in a row.
 For me it's a benefit because, like I said, I've had some success here and I'm looking forward to next week.
 Q. If you could pick one TOUR stop where you could play two weeks in a row, where would it be?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   TPC Sawgrass so I could sleep in my own bed, and I love it.  I'm there every day, and I love the golf course.  I think it's a great golf course.  I think it challenges every aspect of your game.  You look at the winners along TPC Sawgrass, there's no rhyme or reason of who won and why.  It doesn't favor anybody.  But being there, living there now for 11 years, my house is five minutes from the course, and being able to sleep in my bed, be with my kids, yeah, that would probably be No. 1 on my list.
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT