BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2019
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Starting seven shots behind, a position Rory McIlroy and Alex Noren have won in the last five years. You knew it was possible, when you holed this putt on 13, were thinking --  
BILLY HORSCHEL: No, conditions are really ideal out there. Even though we had a little mist, a little rain, the holes coming in are playing fairly easy with the way the wind direction is. Got two par 5s to finish off. I was just trying -- honestly, I was trying to break my record from Friday. I was trying to shoot 64 or better. I came up, I just tied it, so I came up a shot short.   
 Q.  A month ago we spoke in America about the fact that as a kid, BMW PGA you watched it on TV and always wanted to come and play. Now that you have?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: It's exceeded my expectations. It's a beautiful golf course. To think about the modern day player and technology, it still holds up -- yeah, we're still shooting 17-, 18-under par but the thing about this golf course, you have to put it in the right spots to score well. You can't fake it around here. If you hit shots off-line, you're going to get penalised for it. It's a beautiful test of golf and I absolutely have loved my entire week here.   
 Q.  When the PGA TOUR players back home say, is it worth coming to the BMW PGA, you'll say yes?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: I'll tell without being asked, I'll tell them that this is a beautiful week and the course is unbelievable. The way the European Tour putts on a great event, the fans, everything that encompasses this event can rival the best of the best on the PGA TOUR in my opinion.   
Yeah, I'll tell everyone that came, if they are thinking about coming over here, go ahead and book that ticket.   
 Q.  Closing 65, what was your target score and how close did you get to that?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Didn't really have a target score today. I just wanted to come out and play one more really good round of golf. I have three weeks off after this and this has been a really great week for me to build on for the last four or five events I have for the rest of this year.   
Just come out. Try and keep improving on things I've been trying to work on all week and see what happened. It was a really great day of golf. It could have been a few better, but I'm never going to complain about 65.   
 Q.  When you make an eagle at 4, do you start looking at how much ground you have to make up?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: I knew how much ground I had to make up. I looked at the leaderboard to see what the leaders were doing, but I was trying to play for third place or finish top five. I think someone told me earlier in the week, outside Arnold Palmer I think winning this event in the 60s, no American has finished in the top 5. So that was sort of my outside goal this week or coming into the day is finish top five. You know, I think right now, I may have secured this event.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on playing over here and how it might fit in your schedule in the future?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: If this fits in my schedule every year -- I hope it does, because I've actually loved it, but I'm going to come over here every time. I think this event is world-class. The course is world-class. European Tour does an unbelievable job. This is my first time playing an actual European event that wasn't co-sanctioned with another tour and it's just fabulous. Keith Pelley and his staff and the fans here have just been really warm and welcoming to me.   
Yeah, I will come back and hopefully it fits in my schedule every year because I want to be here because I think I would love to hold this trophy up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT