WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Have you seen any of Tiger's match today?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: I saw him hit a putt on No. 10.  As I was going to do a thing for Dell, that's it.   
 Q.  When you have a little bit of a rough finish like yesterday, how long does it take you to get over it and obviously play as well as you played today to get over the mental side of something like that?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, yesterday was disappointing.  But I wasn't pissed.  I wasn't mad, like I can be sometimes where it takes a little bit longer, just disappointed.  I felt like I played better than Jordan, and unfortunately I gave him too many holes to keep him in the match type deal.  And that was an unfortunate situation.  And Jordan hit some really good shots coming in.   
It was a halved match but after talking with Josh, my caddie, and Todd Anderson, who has been here and my sports guys, Bhrett McCabe, we were all on the same page, hey, there's a lot more positives to take from all this than a negative.  And the only negative would be a half-match type deal.  But there was a lot of positives from yesterday to carry on into today.  I just needed to clean up the mistakes I made yesterday.   
 Q.  Does that make you feel a little more confident playing as well as you did today coming off that, and you have a real chance to move forward now in the tournament?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Exactly.  I feel really good with my spot.  The problem I've had this year is my ball-striking hasn't been up to par to what I've historically done type deal.  And I hit a lot of really good shots yesterday, unfortunately the one time I needed to hit a really, really good tee shot on 18, I hit the shot that sort of was giving me problems over the last couple of months.   
But like I said, a lot of positives.  I'm excited about tomorrow.  I'll go play against Kevin Na.  He's a grinder, he's going to grind everything out, and we'll see what we have.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) were you able to pull on what happened yesterday, the birdie on 16?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, I hit a bad putt on 16 yesterday, it was simple as that.  It was a three and a half footer, whatever it may be.  I hit a good first putt, thought I made it, just missed and I literally just made a bad stroke.  I pushed it a little bit and I missed it.  I got on 16, I thought I hit a better wedge shot than I did.  If it flies another yard, I think I may have to tap it in.  But I have that putt I'm looking at, I'm like, "I've got to make it."  I don't want to give Bubba a chance to make his where we could go back to the situation with Jordan.  And it was good to make it.  And I just put pressure on Bubba to have to extend the match.   
I pretty much knew, after I made that putt, the match is over.  I'm not going to lose it again.  I wasn't going to halve it my match if I made that birdie.   
 Q.  Did you play any differently today from an aggressive standpoint?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: No, I played exactly the same I did yesterday as I did today.  I gave two holes away, which I sort of kick myself for - the par 5, No. 6, made a bogey there.  No. 11 I hit three really good shots.  Hit a good 9-iron that I thought was perfect, and it flew about three or four more yards than what we thought it would, and just went over the back.  And hit two more good shots and walked off with bogey, and that's the way it goes sometimes.   
But nothing changed.  I'm going to play the same way I did tomorrow as I've done the last two days.   
 Q.  Have you spent much time looking at the leaderboards?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: I mean this week, yeah, I looked at it a little bit just because I want to see what the guys are doing.   
 Q.  What about tomorrow, though?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: I can't, I've got to go play my -- I've been in the situation before in '16 where Brooks, I think, won his first two matches, and I had lost to Brooks but I beat Danny Willett, and I was playing Jaco van Zyl.  I knew if I beat him, there was an opportunity for me to do the little playoff deal.  And I saw Brooks was losing and unfortunately Jaco played really well and I didn't get it done.   
But it's not going to affect me much, because I've got to win my match.  If I win my match I know at least I'm in a playoff-type deal.  And that's the way I'm going to look at it.  And if I have to go back to No. 1 with Jordan tomorrow, then I'll see him and shake his hand and try to beat him the first hole like I did yesterday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT