WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know you're a football fan, we always talk about don't let last week's game beat you this week.  I thought there could have been some hangover after a disappointing half yesterday against Jordan Spieth.  But you took on the defending champion and closed him out on 17.  Tell me about the match.  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Today I played very similar to the way I did yesterday.  I didn't give away as many holes as I did yesterday.  Yesterday was disappointing.  It was.  Was I frustrated and pissed like I can be sometimes?  No.  It was just frustrating because I know I played well, and I felt like I outplayed Jordan, but sometimes it doesn't work that way.   
So today I came out, Josh, Todd, my team, Bhrett McCabe, we all had a conversation, just keep doing the same thing.  Don't come out, don't change anything, play the same exact way, and just clean up some of the execution errors.   
I played very well today and I'm very happy with it.   
 Q.  I admire your discipline.  Did the golf course change much?  Did you have more wind?  Did it dry out at all?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: The wind is blowing.  The thing that's funny with these greens is I think the firmness, every one of them, is a little bit different.  Is one going to bounce or is one going to release or hit and check-up type deal.   
So it's a little bit of a guessing game, because I don't feel like every green is consistent, just seeing some pitch marks and everything.  But the course is changing a little bit especially with the wind blowing as hard as it is.  It's surely a challenging course when it blows this hard.   
 Q.  Talk about the match tomorrow with Kevin, chance to advance.  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, I knew yesterday that when Kevin beat Bubba and I halved it with Jordan, I still controlled my own destiny.  So there was a lot of positives that I had to take out of yesterday against one negative, and that's halving the match type deal.   
Coming out, great attitude, we did a lot of really good stuff, Josh and I did, and I really should have played flawless today.  I think I made two bogeys possibly, one was a bad chip and the other one was I just sort of -- I hit three good shots and walked off with a bogey on No. 11.  It's the way it goes sometimes.   
I'm excited about tomorrow against Kevin.  I love where my game is, and we're just going to do exactly what we've done the last two days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT