ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 7, 2019
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under 68.  Just comment on your round.  I know it's not the way you wanted to finish coming down the stretch.  But still a good day.  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Still a good day.  I thought that it was scorable early and then last few holes for us the wind picked up.  And number 8 was playing long and, yeah, not too bad of a drive but I had a long second shot in and obviously you can't be short and misjudged it.  And then No. 9 I just tried to do too much with my drive type deal.  But I played really well all day, I saw a lot of really good things in my game.  My ball striking hasn't been really good this year if you look at my numbers, but every other aspect of it has, so I knew if I could just start hitting some better shots I would be playing a little bit better.   
 Q.  You worked with TA about your ball striking.  Did you guys find something this week?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, we have been working hard on it and we found, you know we have been trying to get the same feel where I can feel like I'm shallow and drawing the ball, like I feel like I can use my right side to fire through and turn the ball over and I just haven't been able to do that, unfortunately.  It's sort of a back and forth to what I feel and what he's trying to tell me and we found something where it just, for me, I'm trying to feel like I keep my left shoulder back, don't allow it to move, pull out, and I'm also trying to feel like the left shoulder goes down.  It's a weird feeling.  So I'm trying to get my shoulders at impact to feel more level instead of my left one feeling so high has been the issue type deal.   
 Q.  Next week, you're kind of the host of next week's event, so have they softened any of the greens as far as some of the slopes on some of the greens?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Not in the last few years, no.  I mean, I would say probably 17 got softened, I felt like maybe intentionally, unintentionally when they redid the greens a few years ago.  But, no, I don't think anything has been softened in my opinion, that I know of.   
 Q.  How do you feel like it's going to score next week?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Depends on the wind and everything.  I think that if the wind blows and it's out of the north, northeast or north, northwest, I think it's going to play fairly tough.  And I think if -- I think 12, 15-under par is still going to be a good winning score type deal.  And I think that is an ideal winning score at any course.  I think that's going to be it.  I don't think you're going to go stupid low.  But if the conditions get nasty and the wind blows, yeah, it could be single digits.  I think it's the first year, you just look back at what it was before they moved it to May.   
 Q.  The eagle on 16.  Take us through that hole.  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, I hit some good shots early, just no putts fell and I actually made a really good par on number 11, hit it in the water and was able to hit it out and make a putt.  But I hit a really great drive and it was nice to be able to hit a 5-iron and trust what I'm doing with Todd Anderson.  I mean, I was just trying to hit a little out to the right and just turn it over a little bit and it came off perfect and hit it to maybe 25 feet.  And I've had that putt before, just get it out to the right and let that, the grain and the gravity and everything else take it to the hole.  And it was perfect speed and it fell right in.  So it was nice, that was sort of a jump start to the round today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT