BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Regarding confidence.)
BILLY HORSCHEL: It's building.  It can go higher, that's for sure.  But it feels pretty good.  I've felt like since April I've played some pretty good golf.
The swing is starting come around a little bit better where I feel like it's back to where I can trust it a little bit more, back to what I'm used to doing, ball striking.
And I'm making a lot of putts, which is something I've always done, so I feel pretty good right now.
Q. And how do you get confidence?  Is it sort of a mental thing?  Do you have to see the results?
BILLY HORSCHEL: For me, I think there are two ways to build confidence.  You see confidence on the golf course in your play, which I think a tougher one.  For me, the easier way to go is through practice.  You see the way you're hitting it in practice, you see the way you're hitting in practice rounds and pro-ams.  You see the way you're putting it.
I think it gives you confidence to take the golf course.  It may not always happen, but you're doing it in practice.  It's just a matter of time until it transitions into a round of golf.
Q. You've been working diligently on your golf swing and short game with Todd Anderson.  (Indiscernible.)
BILLY HORSCHEL: It's huge.  He's leaving tomorrow morning, but obviously I haven't seen him in the longest time.  I haven't seen him since Memphis, I think.  I've been in Colorado for the summer and he's back in Florida, so I haven't seen him in four, five, six weeks.
It was nice to see him.  We've done some stuff obviously on the phone, but for him to come out and just tweak a couple things that we have been working on and not do anything major was nice.  Means I'm progressing the right way.
But it's always nice for him to be here Thursday morning or Thursday before my first round.  What happens in practice rounds and before a tournament changes, the feels and everything.  If something is off, he's there to help fix it and get me going for the rest of the week.
Q. Nice round out there today.
BILLY HORSCHEL: Thank you very much.
Q. Just comment on it, if you can.
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, really good round of golf.  I knew coming into this week that scores were going to be low.  Course is playing soft.  We're going to get more rain starting tonight and probably next few days, so you're going to have to really go low this week.
To get off to a good start makes it a little bit easier that you don't have to -- you only shoot 1 or 2-under today you really have to do something special the next couple days.
So get off to a good start was huge.  Hit some really good shots and made some putts.  Really just an all-around good day of golf.  Hit one bad shot, a tee shot on No. 9 and made bogey unfortunately.
Really didn't take advantage of the second par-5 on the front side with a 6-iron in my hand; only made par.
All in all really a great day of golf.  Could've probably been a couple shots better, but I'm happy with 7-under.
Q. Knowing you're a couple strokes behind does your mindset change going in as compared to when you're all even going in?
BILLY HORSCHEL: No.  I have a target number that I think I need to get to to have a chance to win this week.  So that's really my goal, is to get to that target number.  I feel like 18-, 20-, 22-under par is going to win.  My target number is somewhere around there.  That's all I'm really focused on, trying to get that target number and see where it puts me on Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT