TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 23, 2018
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Final round 4-under par; when did it really click for you that you are in this?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: When I made the birdie at No. 15, old No. 6.  I thought, you know, if I could go -- if I could do something crazy, birdie-birdie-eagle finish, that would get me to 12, 13 maybe, but I knew I had a chance.  Didn't hit a great drive at 16 and didn't have that hard a fairway bunker shot and just chunked it, good up-and-down.  And then hit two good putts on 17 and 18.  Sort of just had two reads, and I went with the other read on both of them and obviously missed them unfortunately.   
 Q.  You are no stranger to coming from behind to win the FedExCup in 2014.  Are your nerves high to see how this finishes up here?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: No, I mean, three-shot lead -- I mean, Tiger has got a three-shot lead over me.  Yeah, I think he should have it.  Obviously, he's got a tough shot or he's playing for par on No. 16, and 17 and 18 are pretty easy holes.  But obviously it's not easy when you're trying to win, especially for him when it's been a while.  He's got some demons in there, but he looks like he's in control.  I don't expect myself to be in a playoff, but we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  I know it was a struggle this week a little bit; I saw you early in the week.  You were excited about what was going on.  At the beginning of the week, you were taking a lot of time gripping that driver on No. 14 or something, I saw you.  Were you tweaking a grip a little bit earlier in the week?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: No, I always have trouble gripping the club.  My left hand gets weak, and then when I get it on strong, I milk it back to weak when I get my right hand on.  I constantly -- sometimes it's a little bit easier to get on than other days.   
 Q.  Did you have any idea that that birdie on 18, with what happened with Dustin Johnson, might give Tiger the FedExCup right now?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: No, but if it does, hopefully Tiger throws a couple dollars my way.   
 Q.  He's got a few to spare.  What do you got going on for the rest of the year?  Are you going to play a little bit in the fall?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, I'm going to play.  The last few years, my game hasn't been where I've wanted, so I haven't really wanted to play, I just wanted to go home and work on my game.  I feel good with everything, so I'm going to go play the three Asia events, Mexico.  Hopefully, try and get some more wins to close out this year.  I've been close the last couple months, knocking on that door, and sometimes you need a little bit of luck, and sometimes you just need a couple putts to fall here and there.  Game feels good, I just want to keep this momentum going to the end of the year so I can start the 2018-2019 season strong.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT