WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2021
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You have a chance to win this championship.  Just how difficult and fulfilling was this day for you?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   It was good.  I knew it was going to be a long day, especially as we moved on.  And I had two really good opponents in Kevin and Tommy, both good ball strikers.  So I knew they weren't going to be out of too many holes.  They weren't going to hit too many loose golf shots and they didn't.  I played really good this morning, and I played decent this afternoon.  Swing got a little loose on the back end there but was able to battle it out and make a couple putts to extend the match when I missed a few putts early on.
 Q. Did you learn anything about yourself this week in regard to being a good match play performer?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   I think I should be a good match play player.  I have been.  I have spells where I played really good in matches.  I think when you putt really well, you putt really well inside 10 feet, something I do really well, I think it makes it tough to, if you don't give holes away, it makes it tough on your opponents.  And I just haven't done a few things correct in certain matches in previous years to be able to get to the point I am now and so I think I'm learning from those.  I'm hoping I am.  But yeah, it's been a really good week of golf and we have one more day.
 Q. What's the biggest key for you heading into Sunday?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   Nothing changes.  I know what tomorrow means.  I know it's no different than the final round.  I mean, I was in the final round with Colin Morikawa at Concession, another WGC event I played very well.  Nothing changes.  I'm not going to stress about it anymore, and I'm not going to worry about it.  I'm just going to go play some golf and see where my game is and hopefully it's good enough and I play well enough then I can move on and maybe hold a trophy tomorrow.  But this has been a great week of golf.  I think last week, I took last week off, spent time with my kids on spring break.  First time I've gone on a vacation with them in years and not brought golf clubs or something and I think it was much needed after not playing well at Bay Hill or PLAYERS.  And it's just I needed a mental reboot and I got it last week.  I didn't know what this week was going to have in store.  I didn't touch a club for seven days, but it's been nice to see the game hasn't left me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT