SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 4, 2018
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Four birdies, a lone bogey, a tough day around the Plantation course, but you opened solid.
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, it wasn't easy.  Obviously, the wind was blowing pretty hard and depending where the pin locations were it was tough to get close to, so you had to play smart.  So I think obviously my caddie Josh and I did a really good job of thinking our way around the golf course and taking what the course gave us.  And like I said, I played really solid.  It was nice to see, since I didn't really play much golf since BMW last year.
Q. Some of the players were commenting that the winds were gusting a little firmer than they expected around 11, 12, 13, that side of the golf course.  Did you notice a difference or was it steady Eddie with the wind most of the day?
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, you would get gusts here and there.  I think it was sort of, obviously, it did what it was projected to do.  Obviously it was projected to blow about 20, 30 and we got gusts up there probably close to that.  But I was expecting -- it was nice to play yesterday in the afternoon in the pro-am because the first, I played early in the morning Sunday, Monday, Tuesday.  And I haven't played in a bunch of wind, so it was nice to play yesterday in the afternoon with a lot of wind.  I felt like it gave me a good prep for today.
Q. Any game catch your eye this weekend?  Saturday night Jacksonville hosting Buffalo.  You got your eye on that one?  I know Ponte Vedra Beach is now home for you, so is that the game of interest this weekend?
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, my Pats have got the weekend off, so, yes, the second team I root for is the Jaguars.  So it's nice to see obviously for the Jaguars to play well, the city is pretty jacked about it.  I was able to go to a game this year against San Diego where they came back and won in overtime.  So, yeah, it's pretty nice to see the Jaguars do well and get in the playoffs.  I think the stadium sold out within a few hours.  So it's been sort of dire straights for us the last few years in Jacksonville and it's nice to see the fans really show support for the team throughout this and especially this year.
Q. You're a Patriots fan?  Where did that come from?
BILLY HORSCHEL: Born and raised around my dad's buddies that grew up in New England.
Q. Talk about the greens a little bit.  They seem a little diseased.  Did you notice anything out there today or any differences from the first few days you played?
BILLY HORSCHEL: They warned us ahead of time, before we got here, that there was a little issue and I felt like majority of the greens are really fine.  The one that struggles the most is 14.  I think you can't really do much where the pin locations are.  I think you're going to see some pins on 15, there's a couple pins that traditional pins that they may not be able to use.  But they're rolling really good and you hit good putts, they're going to go in the hole.  So it's unfortunate that they had a little disease issue, but I think the TOUR's done a really good job of managing them and I think they've got a great game plan for the next couple years of redoing some of the problem greens that they have had.  And so, it wasn't too bad, they're being really smart where they're putting the pin locations trying to be safe and make sure the greens last the entire week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT