AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 20, 2017
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BILLY HORSCHEL: You know, I nicked it really good but it came out a lot quicker and faster than I wanted it.  Had a ton of spin on it.  In my view had a great line on it and went in the hole.  I think if I missed it would have been five feet by.
Q. Give me your thoughts on the final round.
BILLY HORSCHEL: It's great to be back in the final group.  It's been a little while.  The last four, six weeks hasn't been ideal for me.  I've been working hard and keep believing.  It's nice to be back in the final group.
I feel like my game is in the spot it needs to be to win again.  We go out there with the same mindset we've had the last few days and try to play the game of golf and see where we are on Sunday.
Q. You're in great position.
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah.  It was a really good day of golf.  Obviously I haven't been in this position in quite sometime so it's nice to play a solid round of golf.
Swing felt just a touch off, didn't feel nearly as good as last two days.  I managed it really well.  Put myself into really good spots.  Hit a lot of good putts on the backside that easily could have gone in but I'm excited about where we are going into Sunday.
Like I said, it's been a tough four to six weeks, probably the toughest stretch of golf I've had since in early in my career.  It's nice to be seeing the signs of the fruits of labor, because we've put a lot of hours in.  See what happens.
Q. You mentioned it's nice being back in the final group.  Any part of you that's curious how you're going to react to that situation?
BILLY HORSCHEL: Not at all.  Obviously I've been in there before.  Once you get in there you sort of fall back in the ways and, like I said, I've been in plenty of final groups before.  I've had plenty of chances to win.  I know what the feeling is going to be like.  I'm excited to be -- have a late tee time.
Q. Anything you can point to when you say you were having struggles, anything you can point to to figure it out?
BILLY HORSCHEL: You know what, it's tough because the practice sessions at home, the practice sessions early in the week of the tournament have been really great, literally the last 8 weeks.
I go out on the course and put up a dud.  It's been frustrating.  So, I -- the two things I guess we could say is that I switched putters to a PXG putter or a different PXG putter, went to a face balanced putter, something Todd Anderson has been trying to get me to go to.  It finally got through my thick skull.  That's been great.
Putted well the last couple of weeks.  Once Josh, my caddy, and TA been telling me for the last couple months that the reason my ball-striking at home and early in the week hasn't carried over to tournament rounds is just because the tempo of the swing gets really fast.
So, if it's nice to swing within the practice rounds at home, it's ten times that.  The ball striking gets off, the position of the swings get off.
Once again, I just had to get through my thick skull a little bit and learn a little bit quicker than TA telling me to go to a face balanced.
I walked off the course last Friday after Players after missing another cut, four in a row.  It felt different.  I felt like I played really well, got some bad breaks in that round.  Probably should have made the cut if those bad breaks don't happen.
It was just a different feeling walking off that 2nd Round.  I just felt like this is a turning point.  We're going to look back at the end of this season and, hey, listen, the 2nd Round Players Championship was the turning point for my season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT