THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2017
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Second shot on 18, are you thinking, post a number and hope the wind blows?
BILLY HORSCHEL: Well, the wind's blowing.  You know, Josh and I, we were talking about it.  It was one of those things where, I can hit the shot.  I mean, I have enough club with 3-wood.  If I hit a good 3-wood, we have 235 front.  If I hit a good, solid 3-wood, it's going to fly five, ten into the green, and give myself an eagle putt.
The one thing was, I couldn't hit it too far left.  If I hit it too far left and got it too far left and deep, then I was going to have a tough little shot.  So we had a great, great line and great mental picture of what we wanted to do, and unfortunately I just got a little quick and just got a little underneath it and just hit a little spiny cut.
I knew right when it came off, it had no chance.  A little disappointed because I told myself, you know, hit the same 3-wood I hit on 16, which was a covered 3-wood, started left and really let the wind take it right.  But I had to go for it; I'm three back.  I know there's some carnage out there, can be, but I had to try to get to 10-under.
Gary Woodland, like Josh said, was at 9-under, so I had to try to get to at least nine, and you know, hey, I'll sleep good tonight.  I'm not -- I didn't back out of a shot.  I didn't -- try and think of the appropriate word.  I stacked up when I needed to hit the shot and I just didn't pull it off this time.  But I'm happy that I felt confident enough to hit the shot, because there's a lot of guys out here that would have laid up and tried to make a birdie and hopefully whatever.  I went for the win.  You know, that's what I did.
Q. That's two Top-10s in a row here, last year you also Top-10'ed, after having some struggles.  Have you figured out this course a little bit?
BILLY HORSCHEL: I think I'm just a smarter player.  I think there's certain times I've come here and I haven't hit it well, and I'm not hitting it well, I try to hit shots I shouldn't hit instead of being smart.  Just being a smarter player.
Listen, I'm telling you, I know a lot of guys that say this, but second and third round, I mean, I missed so many putts that should have gone.  I easily could have shot 7-under both days, it was that easy of rounds.  But there's a lot of good I'm doing.
I know I've been doing some good stuff, even though the year hasn't started off the way I wanted.  We've been doing a lot of good stuff but just haven't put it all together.  It was nice to come here.  I knew coming here I was going to feel comfortable, and I'm ready to kick off my year.  I'm back to where I feel comfortable on the East Coast playing bermudagreens, bermudarough, ryegrass, whatever.  I'm used to this stuff.  I'm excited about the process forward.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT