SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 3, 2016
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Billy, very nice round and especially the finish the way those putts were falling over the edge for you.
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah.  That was a really good start.  Obviously it's my first event in seven weeks since BMW Championship.  Been working really hard.  Yeah, it was nice to see the putter working.  Switched to the new PXG Gunboat, last week when I was in Scottsdale, got on their machine and they said this putter was meant for me.  And it was nice to see some putts go and especially at the end.  I had some good putts go in the middle of the round to go and like I said, really nice to start off the season with a nice 7-under par.
Q. Yeah, you talk about putts today.  I thought on 5 it was going in for you.  Looked like it just dove a bit left on you, but that confidence with the putter, that allow you to make a decision to putt on 8 because it looked like it could have been either/or.
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah.  I like putting -- if I think I can putt it and a ball is going to roll smoothly, I'm going to putt it every time.  I'm a little bit better with a putter than a wedge in my hand.  So like I said, with the putter being hot, why not?  Why take it out of your hands?
Q. Final thing you mentioned, it's been a long way out for you here, the first event back.  Do you lower your expectations for that or something you try to work on in the first round being the first one back?
BILLY HORSCHEL: It's tough because the expectations are always very high for me.  Before I went out Todd Anderson, my teacher, was like, just stay patient, because we've been doing some really good work, and it's just you want to come out and get off to a great start, start the season off the right way.  And he just said, be patient; and I was.  I didn't try to get too far ahead of myself, didn't try to do too much with any of my golf shots, just trust in what we've been working on.  And it was nice, like I said.  So expectations, if I can not exceed -- take them to a level that, you know, it's reachable, but sometimes you push yourself too hard trying to reach that level.  I just need to keep a nice cool expectations.
Q. But it's Vegas, you gotta have high expectations.  Everybody coming out here has high expectations, whether it's the tables or the golf course.
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, exactly.  Obviously the tables have taken my money this week.  Obviously my expectations on the tables are very down, so I think my time on the tables the rest of the week is done, and I'm focused on hopefully -- hopefully I gave away all my bad luck and all my money away at the tables and hopefully all the good stuff comes out here on the golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT