WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2021
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Overall assessment of the day.  Obviously moving on to the semi-finals.  Played some good golf today.
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, I played really well this morning.  I made six birdie and then no bogeys.  Played decent this afternoon.  I made two bogeys with two bad 3-putts, which doesn't usually happen for me.  So other than that it was a good round of golf.  The swing got a little loose toward the end there and sort of struggled on a couple shots that I shouldn't have an issue with.  But I was able to grind it out, bear down a little bit, and hit a good shot into 17 when I needed to and make a putt.
 So, yeah, today's a really good day, successful day.  And I came into the match with Tommy feeling like it's been a successful week, played good against Streelman.  I knew I was playing another tough opponent in Tommy and I felt like whatever happened, happened, I was going to be happy, fine with it.
 Q. Was the swing getting loose maybe a little bit of just slight fatigue from a long week already?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   No, just the same stuff we work on.  I mean, I get a little quick off the ball and the left arm outruns the right and so then I can't, I don't have an into my swing and so then I have to time it coming down and it's tough when we're hitting three-quarter shots into certain holes.  But it's nothing too far off.  Just go hit a few balls and be ready to go tomorrow.
 Q. Following you out there, 13 felt like a huge missed opportunity.  But then you come right back.  And I'm just curious, I think in match play those are really critical moments not to get down on yourself.  What's the mental thing going there?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, I mean, I was ticked off.  I gave a hole away to Tommy on number 11 with a 3-putt and I tied a hole with him after he hit his tee shot in the water on number 13.  The wedge shot wasn't too bad.  I flew it about two yards too far.  But to miss a 4-footer, that ticked me off a little bit.  But I knew I still was only one down with five holes left to play and I just needed to sort of grind it out.  Didn't hit a good iron shot in on 14, but I felt like I was due to make a long putt.  I haven't made many long putts this week.  That one just sort of fit my eye where it's just outside the right edge and I hit a really good putt.
 Q. How important is a putt like that to stop the bleeding and make sure you don't go two down?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   Huge, because he was in there 10, 12 feet.  His putt wasn't easy.  He had about a foot to two feet of break probably, and so I knew my putt was the easier one of the two, possibly, even though I was 30 feet from the hole.  So when I made it I was expecting him to make it.  He's been rolling the ball pretty well all day, so it didn't shock me that he rolled it in on top of me.  But it gave me that momentum that I needed to stay in there.  I needed a little juice and that's what I got out of that putt.
 Q. What was your state of mind walking off the 13th green versus walking off the 17th green?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   Obviously I was in a better frame of mind than 13.  Steve Sands was behind the green on 17 and after I made my putt, I walked up the hill and see him and I said, you know, what the F are you doing on this hole, you know?  You need to go back to 18.  You came out way too early.  Messing with him.  So, yeah, obviously, I was in a good frame of mind after 17 knowing it was all tied and it was ball game, ball was up in the air and who was going to make a mistake or finish it off.
 Q. Based on how, more so Tommy played the 13th hole, how did Hortzie (phonetic) tell you to play the 13th hole?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   Hortzie (phonetic) is not here this week and I mean, he's been here before, but I just, I just don't see hitting driver or 3-wood there.  I mean, I know Sergio has hit some unbelievable shots I've saw on TV and some guys have hit some great shots, but if you miss it, it's a tough little chip, and so I just always felt that, especially with my wedge game being decent that week that at worst I was going to have maybe 15 feet for birdie and unfortunately I missed the green with a wedge.  So he's probably not too happy about that.  But, yeah, I just lay up.  I don't see myself ever going for that hole.
 Q. You played with a lot of energy.  You got a lot left in the tank for tomorrow?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   Oh, yeah, I mean, if anyone knows me, there is, my tank's not empty.  It was empty at the beginning of this week.  We had a long fun spring break last week with my family and I was pretty exhausted Monday and Tuesday, but yeah, I've got plenty of energy.
 Q. Did you go to the beach?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   We went back to where I grew up in Melbourne, spent time with my cousin and her kids and my aunt and uncle and we had my boat down there and just spent time in the water, fishing, tubing, just water every day.  I mean, it was exhausting.  Fun but we were all exhausted by the end of the week.
 Q. Great prep for a golf tournament.
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   I needed it.  I needed a little mental reboot and that's what I got.
 Q. Tell me what you got in front of you with who is left?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   I've just got to go play my game.  I've played match play enough.  I've tried to play the opponent.  I've tried different strategy, and I think over the last couple years I realized just trying to play the golf course.  I mean, there are certain times you got to play your opponent, but I think if you just try and make the score on that hole what you would do in a stroke play format, that's what suits me best.  So that's what I'm going to do, play my game and then see where it puts me.
 Q. What's your analysis of Scotty Scheffler as a potential opponent?
 BILLY HORSCHEL:   Other than being a Texas Longhorn, he's a really good player and he's a good kid.  It's a matter of time before he wins and I'm not saying it because he's here.  If you've been around me before, and I'll talk, I talk highly of several of the guys out here.  Scottie's a good young player.  He's going to have a long career.  It's just a matter of time before he gets a victory and I think he's going to, obviously his track record as a junior and amateur is pretty good, so that's going to lead to a pro track record as well.  You can pay me later, Scottie.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT