AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 21, 2017
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How much special is this given this is the last tournament here?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: It's amazing.  You know, I haven't played here in five years.  I was not a fan of this golf course the first two times I came here and then I came -- I came here and I was like wow, why did I not like this course, this course really fits my game to tee and really just embrace the golf course and played really well.  I putted beautifully all week.  Put a new putter in last week with PXG.  Been rolling perfect.   
 Q.  Talk about the 60-foot bomb you made and how it turned things around on the back-9.  
BILLY HORSCHEL: It was sort of a little rough on the first few holes, just trying to feel the momentum and I thought I had a little momentum going and then missed a short putt up 10, birdied 11, 3-putt 12 and 13.  Putted well all week and it just -- it was me.  Just a little nervous.  That's all I can say, nerves.  Wasn't anything.   
I hit bad putts and go to 14 I thought I hit a wedge shot that I stiffed and obviously 60 feet away from the hole and I'm thinking to myself man just get it close, I don't want to 3-putt again and I drain a bomb and I was like wow, this is what needed to get me going back in that direction.  Kick myself in the butt and say let's go.   
 Q.  What does it mean to be the last champion?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Means a lot.  Obviously Byron Nelson was a legendary golfer, one of the greats in our game of golf.  We all looked up to him for what he did on and off the golf course.  I know I should.  I wish I could handle myself a little more like him.  Special place.  I'm sad that it's we're leaving, unfortunately.   
 Q.  Can you kind of describe the emotional thing seeing your playoff opponent missing a five footer?  You hate that for him.  
BILLY HORSCHEL: It's tough.  I thought I had a chance to make in it regulation.  Wasn't as fast and had an actually easier putt in the playoff.  Let's not, you know, think about hitting this harder because the earlier one was slower.  I hit it and thought I hit it with the right speed and on the right line.  Came up a hair short and never want to win with an opponent like Jason misses a short putt like that.   
Listen, I've missed short putt not too long ago to lose a playoff.  I know the feeling.  You always want to win with a birdie on the last hole.  It's the way the game of golf goes sometimes.   
 Q.  We'll have a lot of memories from this place.  What will you take as the overarching memory from this week for you?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: There's so many.  I would say everyday I drove to the course like this is a pretty special place, it really is.  Just grateful that I was playing a game I love, probably sometimes take it for granted but I put so much pressure on myself of last four weeks.  I was in a peaceful place all week.  Happy to be here and happy to compete and it's nice to walk away with a trophy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT