THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2016
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not a bad round would double though, a triple, right?
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, it was a good round.  I was looking for, you know, I knew I needed to play well coming back starting second round.  I played really good the first round.  I had, unfortunately, a double on number 7.
And then got off to a good start, then not a bad position, but a decent position on No. 9.
And it was on the cart path behind the green, and I wanted to drop it before the rain delay, before I went in, because I was worried about someone taking my tee.  But Johnny's like, I, well, I got three, you know, three little indentations or three stripes in the concrete and I know your ball's just past there, so we're good, just put a tee down.
Came back out and then, before we came, I pretty much knew what the ruling was.  I was taking relief from the cart path, there was a metal fence just like that one over there, looked pretty movable to me and the very end of it was just in my line a little bit, not really, but could have been.  And the guy asked me, what, do you want it moved?  And I said, take everything down by the green, the ropes and everything.  You can just move that fence a little bit to the right.  And that's what he did.
And then he came over, he was like, you know, I said, I marked it off.  And he said, well we may get relief from the fence, too.  I said, what do you mean relief?  And he's like, well it's a TIO.  And I said, well, I moved it.
And so it went from there.  It was my own fault.  I know the rules pretty well out here, probably one of the, I feel like, for a majority of guys out here, I know them really well and I know what the procedures are.
But obviously it's on the hard card that that's a TIO and, like I said, I didn't think it was immovable obstruction because it looked pretty movable to me.  And Mark Russell came over to explain it to me and just said, for security purposes, once they're linked up, we just say it's TIO.  So, you know, just for security reasons and everything with crowds.  And I said, listen, it's my fault, I messed up, and not much I could do from there.  Take the two-shot penalty and go with it.
Q. Good birdie on 18 to rebound a little bit.
BILLY HORSCHEL: Thank, boys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT