THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2016
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You run off four in a row to begin your weekend, pretty good start?
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, it was.  I've been playing well the last, you know, first two rounds.  I just didn't get anything out of it.  I buttoned down and I was able to make the cut.  I knew I could come out this morning and get after it because I felt comfortable with my game.  I did a really good job.
Shooting 4-under is really good but I'm disappointed because I made some bogeys when I shouldn't have made bogeys.  You know, simple up-and-downs I felt like.  It's disappointing.  I walked off the golf course shooting 4-under on a good, tough golf course, and realistically, I probably should have shot at least eight, if not better.
Q. I looked at the hole locations, the first four holes are all four from the edge, and you birdied all of those?
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, just good iron play.  I'm hitting my irons really well.  These PXG irons, I switched to PXG and it's been unbelievable.  My iron play has been unbelievable.  My stats guy is like the switch has been a massive change for the better and it's shown in my stats.
I feel comfortable with these irons.  I know the distance they are going to fly every time.  I know how they are going to fly in the air.  I can be a little more aggressive knowing that I have some clubs that are going to be spun the way I want to.
Q. As the leaders go on the golf course, what are some holes that you can take chances on?
BILLY HORSCHEL: You get by 10,11, then you've got 12, 13.  12 is right there in front of the green and I bogeyed it.  The pin is eight on.
Then 13, I hit a good one drive down there.  The pin is back, nothing to scare you away.  14 looks like a benign pin but if you are just a little bit long and left, you're going to roll off the green and have that little collection area.  And I think then coming in, you've got 17 is the only pin I think you've got to be afraid of because if you come up short or short right, then you've got the water right there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT