BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2020
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. When you are watching someone you're playing with as you're looking at the monitor and that's happening, what's going through the mind of the other player, in this case it's you?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I never thought Corey was going to make double on 18.  I was trying to make birdie.  I didn't hit a good iron shot in there.  I knew if someone -- either I could make up a shot, move up a spot with a birdie or if someone above me could move down into my category at plus 7, I knew that would be beneficial because I saw on 17 I was tied with Adam long, both at 950.  Obviously you're going to go decimals.  He had me beat, so it was really unfortunate.  You never want to see something like that happen to anybody.  If it turns out that was how I made it to TOUR Championship, I'll probably give him a nice bottle of wine or a good dinner or something.
Q. We're going to talk in hypotheticals here.  If you were to make it, your feelings on making it to East Lake again?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   It would be really great.  I've got a real fondness for East Lake, the TOUR Championship, Southern Company, Coca-Cola.  It's just an unbelievable course, unbelievable tournament, and my record shows that I do love it a lot with a win, a second and a seventh-place finish, I believe.  It would be nice to make it.  I was hoping -- I wish I could say I was hoping to play better today.  I played really good golf, and I got absolutely nothing out of it.  It's been a struggle.  It's been a test of my patience all week.  I've hit a lot of really good shots.  I've hit probably so many good putts over four days and absolutely made nothing, and if I would go over the last four days of how many lip-outs I've had, I'm not just saying burning the edges, I'm saying true lip-outs.  It's easily 15, 20 plus.  It was just frustrating because I never could get any momentum and I hit it fairly well.  I know I hit a couple bad shots over four days, which happens, but it was a frustrating thing.  Yeah, we'll see what happens.
Q. What's it been like being the bubble boy at the start of the week and kind of getting yourself inside it, then outside it?  How have your emotions been as it's fluctuated during the week?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   It's funny, I was telling my team this morning that it's weird, I mean, I know what it's like, the emotions I have when I have a chance to win.  I'm excited.  I know I'm playing well.  You just never know what's going to happen when you have a chance to win.  And I know when I'm outside the cut line or need to play a really good round of golf, I always seem to do a really good job of that to make the cut, and this was just a completely different thing.  I would say I almost feel like I was trying to protect something, and I think I did a really good job of expressing that to my team this morning, just to verbalize it, get it out there, so I knew we had talked about it, they knew what I was feeling, and hopefully I can just go ahead and play golf.
I did a really good job of that.  I did a really good job of hitting quality golf shots one after another, and like I said, it was disappointing that I didn't get much out of today's round because I think today's round could have easily been 3- or 4-under par instead of 2-over par.
Q. Your game seems to be trending in a good direction even though you didn't get much out of it.
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I'll tell you what, if I somehow make East Lake, I love what I can do there.  I know I'm going to start 10 shots back and that's a big margin to make up, and I know the winning scores before we had this winning -- before we had this staggered start was around 11- or 13-under par and that's what won, and when I won I shot 11-under par so I know I'm going to have to do something special when I get to East Lake, but the game is trending in the right direction.  Whether I play next week or whether I don't get to play until the U.S. Open, I just love the trajectory my game is going and the progress we've made as a team this year.
We'll see.  It would be nice to play next week, but we'll see what the cards have in store for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT