WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2016
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was really good iron shot.  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, it was.  I've been playing solid all week.  Hit it good today.  Felt like it could have been better.  I think the tempo was a little bit off.  Iron play has been good.  Lot of this stuff that Todd Anderson and I have been working on the last couple of weeks has finally hit on what we've been struggling with this all year and we knew what it was, just finding the right fuel, the right, you know, practice, techniques to groove it in and I've been able to practice a lot the last, you know, 7 days and groove it in.  It's been nice.   
 Q.  I've noticed the momentum.  You're a momentum guy.  I saw it a little bit today.  You feel it coming back, don't you?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah, I do.  I've only played 3 events since The Players Championship.  Not a lot of reps under my belt.  But, you know, I'm going in a stretch of golf that hopefully I'm playing five out of the next six.  I got to play well obviously to get into the Tour Championship but I'm going into the time of year where I've had pretty good success.   
It's the evens, 2014, 2016.  Who knows what's going on there?  I'm happy I'm able to play a lot of events in a row, get in reps under my belt.   
It's not like I played bad this year.  I only missed two cuts, one in Palm Springs and one in June and hit the bad side of the draw at Troon.   
It's been a lot of good stuff but, if anything, the swing sort of hitting bad shots at the wrong time, sort of let me down.  But, like I said, Todd and I have been working hard on it and we finally figured it out and it's nice to see some results show up.   
 Q.  Heading into tomorrow you may be four, five back.  Here you can pick that up pretty quickly.  You have a chance to win this thing.  
BILLY HORSCHEL: I do.  I'm just going to try and stay patient.  I did that today.  You know, I got off to a really slow start, then -- I had a couple opportunities on No. 1 and 2 and didn't make them.  Hit a shot at No. 5 that I thought was good and flew way too far and didn't make a birdie there.   
Then I went to 6, 7, 8 -- 6, 7, 8, 9, I believe, rattled off some birdies.  Got to stay patient because there's so many opportunities for you to make birdie.  If you don't get off to a fast start you feel like you're behind the 8 ball.   
But you got to keep giving yourself as many opportunities and that's my goal, give myself as many opportunities as I possibly can and see what happens when the day is over.   
 Q.  For a guy who hasn't played a lot of golf in recent memory, how important has this been for you?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: I've come back to a place that I feel comfortable at.  Obviously my results, you know, it's nothing spectacular.  I've been in good positions going into the weekend and haven't done well and that's due to my wedge game not being up to par where it needs to be but we worked hard on that over the last 12, 18 months and we're seeing the results from it.   
So I mean I feel really good.  Todd Anderson and I have been working really hard on my swing.  We knew what some of the issues were.  We're trying to figure out the feeling, what to do to -- what practice techniques to get it to correlate out to the course and we've done some really good stuff the last week and a half.  So I'm excited.   
We'll see what happens tomorrow but lot of good momentum going into tomorrow and in the FedExCup Playoffs.   
 Q.  Kind of just mentioned it lot of guys with a lot of different goals this week trying to get at the Playoffs.  For you it seems getting that game where you want it to be is your goal.  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Like I said, I haven't played bad at all this year.  Two missed cuts, one at Palm Springs at the beginning of the year, first event of the year, and Troon where I had the bad side of the draw the 2nd Round, unfortunately.   
But I played some decent golf.  Had some Top-10s early in the year and sort of quieted down since then.  Only played 3 events since The Players Championship.  Not a lot of reps under my belt.  I feel really solid with what we're doing.   
My goal coming in this week was to win.  I want to win and get up there as high as I can in the FedExCup Playoffs, hopefully secure my spot either -- I can't secure my spot in the Tour Championship this week but two good weeks back to back and next week at Barclays I can secure my spot to the Tour Championship.   
That's the goal right now, and one more day to go and we'll seed what happens.   
 Q.  We've seen 61 this week.  Does that make you feel better as a chaser for Sunday?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: Yeah.  You know, obviously the scores are out there.  It's a little fascinating because I thought the course was going to play tougher than it has in recent years.  The greens were firm, the rough was flyer lie, couldn't really land everything on the green and have it checkup.   
I think our Rules Officials have been really good at putting pin placements in the right spots this year due to the fact that the greens are even quicker than I've ever seen them.  So, we couldn't use some, you know, traditional hole locations so I think that's why you've seen some scores being a little bit lower.  We're pretty good out here.  Like I said, we'll figure out a way to shoot some low numbers no matter what the course is like.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT