WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 1, 2015
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Standing on the 16th hole, what happened?   It seemed like how could you lose this match?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   After I made a great birdie at No. 16, go to 17 tee and I hit a really good shot in there 20 feet, just right of the hole, put the pressure on him. 
He hadn't been making anything all day.   I knew he was due to make something.   He made that putt.   We go to 18, I hit a 3‑iron that I thought was perfect.   It flew a lot farther than I thought.   He two putted.   It was a great match.   Take the best player in the world right now to 20 holes, it's just unfortunate because I didn't play bad at all.   Even the shot on this last hole, hit a great 7‑iron just left of ht hole and it flew 15 yards farther than it should have.   It happens. 
I played good this week.   I feel like my game is a great spot.   Just disappointed that I didn't get finished today.

Q.   That's how match play goes sometimes?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   You know, I played solid all day.   I didn't do anything special.   Rory wasn't making anything.   He gave me a couple of holes with missing some par putts.   I played good.   It was just an unfortunate situation.   Last year I lost to Jason Day in the second round after being three or 4‑up after nine holes.   I gave that match away. 
This match I didn't give away.   He beat me.   He birdied 17, a great birdied.   I knew if I birdied 18, I knew if I birdied 18, I think I would have closed out the match.   We hit a 3‑iron to where we thought we should have and it landed a lot farther.   Hit a chip that was supposed to come out dead and it came out fast on a lie that didn't look like it could.   That's the way things go.   It was unfortunate because I played really good today.   I felt like my game is making a turn and I wanted to play this weekend.   Hey, that's the way it goes in match play. 
I'm looking forward to PLAYERS next week being home and working with TA because I feel like my game is a good spot right.

Q.   Now you are going to a tournament that you love so you feel positive about where things are at? 
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I do.   I'm not disappointed at all.   95 percent of me, I'm happy with what happened this week.   5 percent, I'm a little disappointed that I didn't get it done today.   It happens.   I feel good.   I think I need to do more work on my swing to feel comfortable with it.   I'm chipping and putting well. 
These greens get grainy and slow in the afternoon.   Just tough to make putts, but I played good.   I can't complain.   I made several birdies, made one bad hole at‑‑ I don't know what hole that was I just made a mess of.   Other than that I feel pretty good about my game.

Q.   One shot you want back for today?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   If I could have one shot back, I think we would have hit 5‑iron 18.   We had 229 hole.   I hit it 220, 3‑iron.   I tried to cut it in there.   The wind didn't move as far as it did and it hit firm on that green.   It look back and I should have hit 5‑iron.   I had plenty to cover the front edge, and should have kept it below that hole.
You know what, I'm not disappointed.   We played good.   Nothing I can say that I should have done this or should have done that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT