THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2015
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Based on that exchange you had with Ricky, is it safe to assume you were not one of the players who thought he was the most overrated out here?  BILLY HORSCHEL: I didn't vote for Ricky as most overrated.  You can put me down for that.  I don't know what people were thinking about when they thought he was overrated.  He's such a humble guy and such a good guy, he doesn't brag about anything he does. I guess the only unfortunate thing for him is that the media hypes him up a lot because he is really talented and what he's done, coming out of school after his sophomore year and everything, he's brought a lot of people to this game of golf that weren't here five, six years ago.   Q.  Pretty fired up.  What did you tell him?  BILLY HORSCHEL: Words that can't be talked about right now.  There wasn't many non-cuss words that were said there.  I just said bleeping happy for you, you know, bleep bleep stuff and bleep bleep bleep.  And, like I said, there wasn't a lot of non-bleeps in there. I was jacked for him.  I knew, I saw him eagle 16, I saw he hit a good shot on 17 and birdie the last two.  And then I was walking up and I didn't realize that he birdied 15 on top of that.  So to go birdie, eagle, birdie, birdie finish, if he wins it, it beats Craig Perks finish hands down.  Sorry, Craig Perks, but someone just topped you. And hopefully he does win.  He's been so close and he's worked hard on his game and to see hopefully the fruits of the labor pay off would be pretty awesome.   Q.  How would you sum up your day?  BILLY HORSCHEL: My day was, it was weird.  I got off to a good start and just one of those days where we hit some shots and the wind would turn around when the ball was in the air. We hit a shot on 6 we thought was perfect and came up short.  Missed a short one there for par. Played the next two holes good. And hit a bad drive on 9, made bogey. Go to the back side seeing the lead was 10-under and I thought if I could shoot 4- or 5-under I got a chance. And then, right in my back swing, someone took a picture and ball went left.  And I went and spoke to the lady, it was an older lady, and it was lucky she was a lady.  I was very nice to her. If it was a guy, I would have probably maybe ripped him a new one and I would have taken the fine like a man. And after that it sort of got me off my rhythm, took me a couple holes to get back into it. I bogeyed number 11.  I just, you know, I took the club back and I was always afraid there was going to be a camera click.  I hit the shot in the water. Like I said, it was just unfortunate, I played solid all week and I felt really confident coming into today and I knew what I needed to do and it just -- I got off to the start I needed, 2-under after five, but this nothing happened. It is a little frustrating, but it's a good week, a lot of positive things to take away from this week.  I got three weeks off after this work hard, take some time off and be ready to go for Memorial and to travelers.   Q.  Did you have a few bleeps for that lady?  BILLY HORSCHEL: No.  Like I said, if it was a gentleman there would have been some bleeps for sure.  But it's Mother's Day, I was trying to be nice to her, there was a lot of people around, I just sort of said, I went up to her and I sort of said, "Ma'am, you know, taking pictures during the round of golf is not allowed.  Also, your phone should be on vibrate and silent so if you do take a picture it doesn't affect me.  And with you taking that picture just cost me at least one or two shots now." And I said, "thank you, have a great day" and I wasn't very happy.  I held it together, I was very nice, but inside there was, you know, like said if it was a guy, I may have ripped him a new one.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT