MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   If anyone ever gives him a hard time for showing some emotion during a round of golf, I'll have his back.   Because I don't think there's anyone who doesn't show emotions on the golf course.   As long as you're being respectful to your playing partners and you're not making a fool of yourself, so you got ‑‑ if you want to praise people for showing great emotion and all of the excitement, but you got to understand, when someone that emotional, showing that much excitement, there's going to be some of the other side.   
So you got to take both sides of it and say, hey, listen, this is the way the guy plays.   I don't like to seeing robots out there, I like to ‑‑ I would love to play with him on a Ryder Cup or President's Cup teams, because I think our, the way we are, our emotions are very similar.   
So, like I said, if anyone ever wants to call him out and criticize him for the way he is emotionally, whether it's down the line or over the last couple years, I'll stick up for that kid.   I'll be the first guy in the line.   
   
 Q.   Did the wait get him out of his rhythm?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I think that, just like me, we both were in between clubs, he was in between hitting hybrid and 4‑iron.   And the wind was sort of ‑‑ we knew it was off the left, but I think we both figured that ‑‑ you could feel some help ‑‑ and I'm sure that he thought there was more help or it was helping, it was a perfect 4‑iron, but you can't be short.   
I think he was trying to ‑‑ he said, okay, I'll hit a little hybrid in there and just sort of hit it straight.   And, you know, I mean it wasn't like he hit a bad golf shot, you're just in between clubs and hit something that went straight.   But it was an impressive round of golf he played today.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I don't even know, I don't think ‑‑ I don't know what the record is.   He may know.   I have no clue what the record is around here.   
   
 Q.   The record was 11 birdies.   
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, but a kid had 11 birdies a couple years ago.   That's all I know.   I don't know what the scoring record is.   But he may have known about it, but I surely didn't.   I just knew he was playing a heck of a round of golf.  
   
 Q.   There was a standing ovation when he came up on 18.   Did you get caught up in that?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   No, no, I don't get swept up in that.   It was impressive to see the kid play.   I mean, everyone was showing their appreciation for a great round of golf that he was playing that day.   
I still had a putt from about 15, 18 feet that would have got me to 3‑under par and, you know, I wasn't swept up in it.   After I tapped in and saw him make birdie, I mean, sure, it was cool to see.   That was pretty impressive.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, I sort of joked at him because I nicknamed ‑‑ I said, Amen Corner has been changed to Jordan's Corner because, you know, the rough wasn't bad, hit the low cut, hit the little branch, and obviously it didn't affect it too much, it was on the green.   
No. 12 he hit that iron shot that I thought was long (wind noise.)   It looked like it went in the bunker there.   And then he didn't even think he made the putt, he thought he pushed it and it went in the hole.   And I was saying, you know, you're an A hole, you know.  
(Laughter.)   Joking a little bit.   
And then on number 13, he blocks his drive and it hits‑‑ he called bank shot off the tree there, I guess‑‑ afterwards, obviously‑‑ back in the fairway and I said, hey, dude, I mean, it's Jordan's Corner, it's no more Amen Corner.   
So, yeah, I mean, obviously, when you play a round of golf like that there's going to be 8‑unders where you're not going to miss a shot and there's going to be rounds where you shoot 8‑under and get a couple breaks and that was one of them.   I mean, he had a couple today.   
But, listen, he still played a heck of a round of golf.   Even with those breaks.   The putts he made were pretty darn impressive.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT