ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2015
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Billy, you've been working on your game, trying to get back in the great form you had last year.   What does a round like this do for your confidence?   
BILLY HORSCHEL:   It does a lot.   This round is not a surprise to me.   It's been close playing that well the last couple weeks and, you know, it should have been better, honestly.   Hit a fat wedge shot on 15 and made bogey there.   Didn't hit that bad of a chip and missed the putt.  
Then I chipped it two, three feet on the 2nd hole and three-putted.   You know, those two holes that I could have easily, should have easily made par.   Hit a tee shot in the water on 3 and I made par.   
So, it's sort of ironic that the holes that look like I make par make bogies or worse.   The holes it looked like high numbers I made par.   It could have been a lot better but I'll take it.  
   
 Q.   Billy, I've seen you work so hard on the range trying to get back to that wonderful form you had last year.   
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Does a lot for my confidence.   I feel like in my practice a lot of things have been going well and I just haven't seen the results I guess to say on the golf course.   
I've been close to playing a good round like this but I would waste it with a couple loose tee shots or iron shots or a couple missed putts.   It was a great round today.   Probably should have been better.   
Probably should have made par on 15 and easily par No. 2.   I was lucky enough to make par on No. 3 when I hit in the water.  
   
 Q.   We've had some interesting reviews on this golf course.   How would you say it plays?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   It's completely different than years past.   Greens are a lot softer and slower.   Greens aren't in the greatest shape, unfortunately.   
Overall, it's playing -- I think it's playing a little bit more getable.   The rough doesn't seem to be nearly as long.   So I just think it's a softer golf course and not nearly as penalizing as in years past.  
   
 Q.   Good round?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   It was a good round.   I've been needing a good round to get off to a good start.   The last month or two I've been close to playing really good golf.   Fortunately, been a little sloppy with it, the middle portion of the round or towards the end and waste some good rounds.   
Close like that again today.   4-under after 10 and I got tournament a 3-footer for par, easy putt on No. 2 and 3-putt.   Hit my tee shot in the water on 3 and I was able to buckle down and make a par on No. 3.  
That was a huge, keep some type of momentum not making another mistake again.   I needed a good round.   I've been doing a lot of good stuff in practice.   I just need to see some results, of course.  
   
 Q.   How much confidence will that give you going forward?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Gives me a lot of confidence.   Like I said, I've been very confident in my game and the practice is going really well.   Like anyone, you want to see the results sometimes and the results were good today and that will help over the next few days.  
   
 Q.   Still going with Kentucky?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah, still going with Kentucky.  
   
 Q.   Good start.  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Good start.   I said I've been needing a round like this, I've been close to playing a round like this the last month or two and, you know, it's nice to at least be able to finish it off because the way it's been going I get off to a pretty good start, be playing pretty well and mess up somewhere in the round.   
Looked like I was going to do that again today on No. 2, miss a 3-footer, easy one and then three jack and making double and hit my tee shot in the water on No. 3.  
Lucky enough I made par.   I said it should have been a better round but I'll take a 4-under round.   I'm not going to be greedy.   I'm pretty happy to see some results.  
   
 Q.   Lot of hard work, see you grinding on the range.   Anything in particular you've been working on?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   My miss for my whole life has been a shot left and right now where the club is just been a little bit too much underneath coming down and I just been sort of wrapping it with the right hand, turning the face over too much and the ball has been going left and so we're working hard.   
The club is going back towards the ball, downswing a lot better but I'm still wrapping a couple shots and that's when it goes left.  
It's close, not -- I'm a perfectionist.   Not exactly where I want it but it's good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT