AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 13, 2015
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I knew I needed to play better here today.   I sort of wasted shots out there.   I always seem to play well at this golf course.   So to shoot 7‑under, bogey‑free is always a great score out here at Spyglass.  
   
 Q.   You're a very good ball‑striker.   Does that play into your hands, this course, you need to strike your ball pretty well?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Of the three courses, I think this is a course that you need to probably drive it a little bit better, obviously hit some better iron shots.  
So I knew I was going to do that well.   I've been doing that well this whole West Coast since I been playing the last four weeks.   It's just a matter of getting the putts to go in.   
I've been burning a lot of edges the last four weeks and it was nice to see a couple putts go in early and that gave me a little bit of confidence that I've been looking for.  
   
 Q.   What are you looking forward to at Pebble tomorrow?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Same.   Weather's supposed to be good.   Third day at Pebble with the same hole locations could be a little choppy but luckily, I'll get the first nine holes pretty fresh greens, seeing as our group is the second group off.   
So try to do the same thing, give myself as many birdie opportunities as I can like I have the last two days and hopefully I'll make my fair share.   
   
 Q.   Are you guys having a good time out there?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Colt's a really good friend of mine.   I've known him for the last two or three years.   He's a great guy, he's a really good golfer and I'm having a blast out there.   
We're playing with Dan, Larry the cable guy, and Bowdo.   We're just having a great day.   I mean every day's been great and really a nice atmosphere out there.   Really fun atmosphere.   But an atmosphere you feel like you can play well and score well in.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT