HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 7, 2015
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   We'll get started with Billy Horschel here at the Hyundai Tournament of Champions, 2014 FedExCup winner.   Billy, a lot has changed in your life, but first of all, let's talk about being here at Kapalua.   
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah.   It's always great to be back here, last year being my first year.   Being here, I was like, I really want to get back here.   It's a great place to start the 2015 season.   The people here are unbelievable.   The sights are spectacular, and small field, so you know you'll at least make a paycheck this week.  
THE MODERATOR:   And you know you've done that a few times but just recap if you can what last season did for your career.   
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah.   Last season was unbelievable.   Obviously before the playoffs, my season had not been going the way I would like.   But I was able to find something at Deutschebank in Boston, and kept that momentum going at Denver and TOUR championship.   And two wins back to back, I don't think I've ever done that in my golfing career at whatever level.   I don't think I've ever won back to back events.   And obviously to win the FedExCup is life changing.  
So you know, it was one, two steps in the right direction to hopefully reaching, you know, my mound, my peak, my ultimate goal to see how great I can be.  
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Great.  
   
 Q.   What's your comfort level on this course and I guess what was the learning curve?   Obviously kind of a weird one, and it's different for everybody it seems like.   
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Yeah.   I feel like I do a fairly decent job of getting to know courses very well, and last year first round I was just a little shaky.   Actually played really good the second round and I think I played the last four holes 3‑over par and I was 5, 6‑under I think before that.   And I played really well on the weekend to salvage a Top 10.   So I feel comfortable on this golf course.  
Growing up in Florida you play a lot of Bermuda greens and Bermudagrass.   So I'm comfortable on the greens, comfortable in the wind.   Same thing.   So I guess the only thing different between here and Florida is this elevation change is just a little bit different.  
   
 Q.   Billy, you talk about reaching your peak.   Is reaching your peak playing better than you played those two events that you won last year or is it playing that well more consistently?  
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Playing that well more consistently.   I think, you know, I'm trying to see how great of a player I can be, you know, reach my level and my potential as a player, and I gotta keep getting better.   And you know, one of the things I want to do is I want to be a little more consistent this year.   And I think one reason I wasn't very consistent last year is I putted really bad.   I putted awful until those last three events.   And my short game can get better.   And I think I made some strides this off season in working and getting technique wise.  
(Phone line was dropped for the last 3 minutes of interview)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT