TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 12, 2014
Billy Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Billy Horschel into the interview room.   36‑hole leader at the TOUR Championship by Coca‑Cola.   4‑under par, 66 again today.   Great playing.   Comments on your round.
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Today was some things were better than yesterday and some things were worse.   Drove the ball really well today.   Got off to a hot start, 2‑under through 3, and unfortunately I gave shots back at 5 and 7 was easy chips.   Just didn't hit very good chips, and played pretty solid coming in.   Probably could have hit some better iron shots. 
But I'm happy with the way I played today, and like I said yesterday, I'll take three more 66s and see where that puts me.   And I'll say again today I'll take two more 66s, see where that puts me on Sunday. 

Q.   Can you talk about your confidence level after that disappointment at the Deutsche Bank?   You came back strong, one.   And now you're leading again.   Can you shed some light on that going into the weekend?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   My confidence was never shaken by that shot that I hit on 18 at Deutsche Bank.   Listen, it was a bad swing at the wrong time.   I know I'm a better player than that.   I've shown I'm a better player than that.   And unfortunately just as a golf shot that happens. 
So I was over it.   I took a lot of confidence from the way I played that round or that week, especially that round.   And carried it over into Denver.   I'm a guy that when I feel good about my game, I've got some confidence that I'm going to figure out some way to play well and score a number.
I'm just going to keep it going.   And that's what's been carrying over the last three weeks.

Q.   Strategy for tomorrow?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   Really no different than the last two days.   We've got a game plan that we came up with between my teacher, Todd Anderson, and my caddie, Micah, and we're going to stick to it.   We'll have some information from the way the course is playing before we tee off and take that into account. 
But we're going to be aggressive on the holes we can be aggressive, and the holes where pars are good score, we're going to make sure that we're putting it in the right place at least make par.   So nothing different.   Not thinking any different.   Just doing my thing and whatever anybody else wants to do out there I'm fine with.

Q.   What are the scariest holes in terms of having a birdie opportunity, what are the hardest ones from your standpoint to birdie?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   5's a tough hole.   That's always going to be a tough hole.   And 6 could play tough depending on the way the wind is, and then you go to the backside.   Obviously 13's another one.   13 played tough and then that three hole stretch, 16, 17, 18, just depends on the way the wind's blowing and everything.   Three really good finishing holes.
We're just trying to be smart out there and take what the course is offering up that day.

Q.   When your round is over this week, each day do you ask about if there's any news from home, or do you assume there isn't since nobody's come and told you about any news?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I would expect that if there was news, I would have been told within the first couple steps I walked off the green. 
And then I turned on my phone and there's no news on my phone.   So everything's good.   I think our child is staying put for the time being.   But you never know what happens the next few days.

Q.   Two‑part question.   How often have you played with Rory as a pro?   And, secondly, do you think he's reached that stage yet where if you were to play with him, at least one weekend, maybe two weekend rounds it makes it a little more meaningful if you win just because of what he's done?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   How much have I played with Rory?   We played two rounds together this year.   The first two rounds at Honda we were paired up together.   Adam, Rory and I. 
And other than that, I don't think we've played any competitive rounds.   We played a couple of practice rounds together.   Obviously everyone knows about the Walker Cup between us.   But he's a good buddy.   If I happen to come out on top and we're battling out on these next two rounds, that means a lot.   The guy won three straight events in a row and two of them happened to be majors.   I think that's pretty impressive. 
And he's in that stage where when you're able to go toe to toe with one of the best players and the No.1 ranked player in the world and you're able to come out on top, that gives me a lot of confidence.   I think that would give anybody a lot of confidence.

Q.   When you played with him at the Walker Cup, did you come away thinking:   I bet this guy will win four majors by the time he's 25?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   No.   Honestly, I knew Rory was the best player on the team.   Everyone in the UK media hyped him up over there.   And especially he was low amateur at the British Open.   I knew he was very talented.   We played two singles matches and foursome matches together.   And I was victorious two times and we were one‑to‑one in single two‑and‑one whatnot. 
But I knew he was a great player.   I knew he was going to be good.   But did I see him winning three majors and did I see him winning two majors by eight shots or more?   No, I mean, it's tough to see that in someone so young.   He was 18years old.   You never know what's in store for someone at such a young age.   But I knew he was going to be good. 
I knew he had the talent, he had the skill.   Just depends on what kind of work ethic and mentality you have.   Obviously he's shown that to be No.1 player in the world and do what he has done, that he goes about it the right way.

Q.   When you had a 36‑, 54‑hole lead until last week, what did that do for your confidence and what can you carry forward to this week?
BILLY HORSCHEL:   I know I've had some 36‑hole leads and I think before last week I've only had one 54‑hole lead.   But going into last week and having that lead and executing the game plan almost to a tee that I had, it gives me a lot of confidence knowing that when I'm in that lead I can play my game and I can still come out on top.
I think the better thing that I think about is that I didn't have my A game.   I didn't play very great.   I didn't play very solid the last round.   I made some mistakes but I was able to scrap it around and make a score and come out on top.
So I think that gives me a lot of confidence that I know I can close out a tournament if I can do my thing and focus on what I'm doing, not let someone else or some other guys affect how I'm going about my game plan.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT