CHAMP CAR WORLD SERIES: GRAN PREMIO
November 11, 2006
Sebastien Bourdais
Bruno Junqueira
Justin Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT











 AL SPEYER:  We're quite pleased with the alternates here.  The weather isn't too hot, isn't too sunny.  We think they're going to hold up pretty good during the race.  For whatever reason, this track down here in Mexico City is very favorable to the alternate Bridgestone Potenzas.  No matter what the case, we're look for a very exciting race tomorrow.  Our best of luck to all the drivers in the field.  



 JUSTIN WILSON:  Everything came together.  The car was feeling great.  We made some improvements right before the qualifying itself.  You know, the team has done a great job this weekend.  It's not been easy circumstances, but they've worked hard.  The engineers have done a great job.  Just very pleased with the progress we've made.  
 As you said, it came together.  The car was flowing, could et up to speed, could get back to full throttle very early.  It's all great.  As soon as I crossed the line, I knew it was a good lap.  I wasn't sure how good it was until I got out of the car and I saw Sebastien hadn't beat it.  I knew from (indiscernible) on down, I got it on my lap.  I switched through turn three quite bad, but still managed to gain time through there.  
 I thank the team and also Bridgestone.  The tires worked fantastic.  The alternate tires were very good.  This is definitely going to be one of the most cherished trophies I have because  today was quite emotional.  Under the circumstances, with all the rumors flying around, and also with what happened in Australia, it just feels good to come out on top.  


 JUSTIN WILSON:  Yeah, the car feels very good.  It's very stable.  That's what we've been working on.  Tomorrow is a different day; anything can happen.  It's quite easy for the balance to go away without changing anything, just with the climate change or whatever.  So I don't want to get carried away with myself just yet.  
 You know, providing everything feels good, my wrist feels good, also my left arm can take the pressure doing 66 laps around here, pretty much does 90% of the work, I'm going to try to win the race.  If I can't, I'll try to play the smart thing and try to get second in the championship.  We'll just see what we can do.  



 BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  It was a good run today.  I think my Newman/Haas car is pretty good here.  It has been fast for all the days.  Qualify, the first run, I don't know, I made a mistake on my second lap.  I thought that was the last lap.  I was going to do three laps.  But I was still P2, very close to Sebastien.  I thought I had a shot for the pole.  
 On the red tires, my car build up a little too much understeer.  I don't think I could have done much better.  I lost my really good lap, like almost 4/10th faster, and I got Tagliani, 25.0, maybe very close to Sebastien, but I think a couple 10ths behind Justin, so well done to Justin.  
 Tomorrow in the race, I'm very excited.  I think my car is good.  I like this track a lot.  I like this crowd here in Mexico City, it's always very good.  So I hope I can put a good (indiscernible).  

 BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  I think this track, you can see the top three here.  Pretty much we're (indiscernible) Brazilian, I'm proud to be here.  But this is like a road course, the kind of track that you born and race doing in Brazil and Europe.  It's like a European-style track.  You can see drivers that always drive on those fast, high-speed and road course usually does well here.  So I love this kind of track.  
 As you said, even with Ganassi, I was top two here.  I think that's one of the reasons because I start racing (indiscernible) road course.  



 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Well, I thought we would be sitting in the middle, to be honest, after the first run.  The McDonald's car felt really, really well-balanced.  I was very happy.  We made a change to kind of keep up with the track conditions, anticipate the understeer which was going to build up.  
 Just went for the second run, the car picked up quite a bit of understeer, nothing I could do.  (Indiscernible) turn three from the get-go for us.  That was just too much.  So I'm a little disappointed.  Congratulations to Justin.  He's done a good job.  Hopefully I can give him a good run tomorrow.  

 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  That's related to the Bridgestone alternate tires.  Most everybody ran one set yesterday.  With these kind of tires, it was a little hard to improve that lap time at the very beginning.  
 I think the track was a little quicker.  We definitely (indiscernible) equal tire to equal tire.  



 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JUSTIN WILSON:  I'm not sure today.  Yesterday I definitely felt it cost me a bit of time in the last corner and also through the S's complex.  I banged a curb earlier in the qualifying session on my first run, jarred my wrist.  I was a little bit cautious because of that.  
 Today my car was very well-balanced.  I was able to put enough load to my right arm to manage.  I really couldn't say whether it's 1/10th, nothing at all, or just 2/10ths.  I just don't know.  

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  I don't know.  I don't know.  Maybe something happened.  We need to look into it.  I definitely felt a big, big switch between the two.  I was very surprised.  That's what racing is all about.  Sometimes you get caught.  There's not much you can do about it.  You just have to give a good look into it.  Maybe we'll find something, maybe we won't find something.  We'll adjust accordingly.  

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  On the second run.  No beginning, middle or end.  Run by run really.  

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JUSTIN WILSON:  You mean yesterday's qualification?  Today?  No, everything seemed okay.  We did the first run.  We went a little bit early.  We kind of showed our hand a little bit too soon.  We thought that was the best time with the track.  
 My wrist was not too bad in this qualification.  We just sat waiting for a good time to put the red option tires on and go for our second run.  

 Q.  (No microphone.)  
 JUSTIN WILSON:  Not in qualifying.  After yesterday, obviously there was a little bit of doubt, if I brushed the curb again like I did yesterday.  You know, so far it's been okay, it's strong enough.  I had it x-rayed in the Champ Car medical.  They fixed it all out.  The medical team have been fantastic.  
 It's feeling well, making progress still.  




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT