CART MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 3, 2002
Jon Fogarty
Bruno Junqueira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  Thank you very much.  It is a pleasure. 
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  Yeah, that was one of the toughest racetracks of the year.  Because as a racetrack, we have two completely  -- tarmacs, one was concrete and another part was asphalt, very smooth but no grip at all.  It was really difficult to find a good car.  But what we realize on Team Target is that we're never going to kind a good car on both factors, and then we pick up a car that good on both and that could get very good race car for qualifying on the race. 
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  No.  This time, at least myself, I had too work hard because I didn't know a lot and it wasn't that good.  We had to make good big change, especially Friday to Saturday and Saturday car was much better.  I think it was a good team effort about Team Target because it's like when the car is good right away, it's easy; and we had to work really hard to make this car very good. 
 
 
Q.  It's coming to the end of the season, you've got to be a looking ahead to next year.  Stories are out there saying that your team may move in a different direction next year.  Your background has been open-wheel and varied surfaces and various tracks.  Is it your intent that you would like to stay in CART, or are you under contract that you have to go where you go next year?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  No, I'm a free agent at this moment, and I'm looking for some opportunities for next year.  I'm talking to Team Target and they haven't decided what they are going to do next year, and I am kind of waiting to see what they are going to do.  But I'm talking to other teams, as well.  I'll be really happy if I can continue in CART because it's a pretty nice series, and let's see what's going to happen. 
 
Q.  How possible is it to catch your countryman for the Vanderbilt Cup in these last few races, what has to happen to keep somebody other than Cristiano from having that championship when you get to Mexico City?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  It's going to be really difficult because he's scoring good results, even when he doesn't win, like this weekend.  He was a little bit lucky, especially in Montreal, like I lost second place and then he got the second place and I lost 16 points, and then he opened big lead on me again.  But, I mean, I would like to do very good races until the end of the year.  So actually in each race, you know, I know that it's not possible to win all of the races, but if I can finish out the races until the end of the year and with strong results, I can catch him.  I don't know.  I concentrate on myself and see what's happening then. 
 
Q.  You guys have run now four consecutive weeks.  Do you feel that right now?  Obviously, it's great to be in Miami at any time, but does it feel good to relax this week after you've had four in a row like this?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  Well, it's really tough, but I think it was really good  -- the mechanical problem I had in Montreal, I had really good results.  I was on the pace, and I feel pretty good about that, just end up  -- four races in a row, with a win, it's pretty nice.  Now, for sure, I need to relax a little bit and concentrate for next race in England.  And that race will decide if I can catch da Matta or not.  If I can beat him in that race and get close to him on the points, then I will have a chance. 
 
Q.  You did really well in Japan.  I know when you come home you guys are all going to share the home road advantage when you have the Grand Prix of the Americas in Miami.  I wonder how many of your countrymen may come up  -- nothing will top the World Cup in Brazil, but the fact that Brazilians could sweep virtually every open-wheel in the United States, 1-2-3 finish in the IRL and 1-2-3 in the CART FedEx Championship Series, talk about what that means to you, and do you get some sense of how proud everybody is back home of what you guys are doing here?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  Yeah, for sure, the Brazilians are really proud and they love racing.  They love open-wheel racing, and I'm sure that the race in Miami, they are going to see a lot, lot of Brazilian fans. 
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA: Yeah, I think that was a big, nice surprise to see all of those Brazilian fans.  It's nice.  I think the Brazilians, they love racing.  I'm pretty happy when I see them, and I try to make some kind of relationship and thank them for their support.  I think it's really important. 
 
 
Q.  Talk a moment about racing against Cristiano, because I know not only the two of you are countrymen, but you are also good friends.  Do you guys discuss the championship at all?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  Yeah, after we did the top three lap after the race, I said, "Cristiano, you are"  -- I can't say the word  -- "I wonder, if you are going to finish third, how come I'm going to catch you.  Even to make the championship more exciting, I have to catch you, even if you win.  But let me get close, let me get close."   I think he's doing a very good job and I'm doing a good job, as well.  But, I mean, he is in a very good position in the championship.  He's been running strong everywhere.  I mean, I love the match, I'm going to try to catch him.  It's nice that we are friends and all, and it's really good to race against a friend.  But when you put the helmet on and get inside the car, there is no friendship.  You just want to be the number one. 
 
Q.  Is it hard to race in a championship against a friend, especially in your position, because in order for you to beat him in the championship, you've got to do extremely well, and he's got to have some bad luck along the way?.
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  That's one thing that I don't like.  I don't want him to have bad luck.  I want him to go well, but I want to go well, as well, you know.  For sure, if I can think a little bit about the championships, what is going to be nice in my opinion, and I think that's what the fans want to see, is if we can have more head-to-head racing between the end of the year, with me and Cristiano, like we had in Portland and Chicago.  But at that point in the season, I was a little bit careful and didn't attack him much.  But on these last races of the year, we can have another race like we had  -- Road America was pretty nice, but unfortunately we had a problem on the strategy.  I want to see like me and Cristiano fighting for a win in one or two races until the end of the year.  That's going to be exciting. 
 
Q.  What have you learned in racing for a championship this year?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  I've learned a lot.  I think my second year in CART, I learned a lot last year, and I'm putting a lot of things that I learned last year on this season.  But I know that especially on the start of the series, I could do better than what I did.  And maybe I lost some important points there.  But I'm thinking  -- now I'm really concentrating to score points and try to finish the race, and I think that's the most important thing for me.  I'm second in the championship because I'm racing for points, and when I have a chance I'm going to go and win.  When I don't have a chance to go and finish second or finish third, that's important in the championship. 
 
Q.  This is my final question.  I saw where Chip said after the race that he was really glad there was a good talk before the race about racing for the championship, and the fact that Scott at times got so close for you, were there times when you were looking in your rear-view mirror saying, "Okay, Scott, remember I'm racing for the championship," more or less talking to yourself about that?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  No.  There is one thing that is important to say, there is no team order, there is nothing like that, okay.  And what Chip said on the race meeting of this race and pre-race meeting of Montreal, he said now that we are at the time of the season that we have to see that Bruno is the driver of the team that has more chance to win the championship, or that can maybe catch da Matta, so let's make sure that we don't crash each other  -- let's try to keep clean, but especially because I'm fighting for the championship.   Apart from that, everything was fine.  I think really, I was I guess like average ten seconds gap on Scott during the race and on the last three laps, he pressured  me but he knew  he couldn't get by because we were at same speed, you know, and if he tried to get by me, big chance could he crash.  Same way I was on Cristiano in Portland, but I knew it was so close, that I try to pass him, we would crash likely, then I would pass him, you know.  I think not because I was Scott teammate, but because Scott was clever and he's better to get the second place than nothing. 
 
Q.  Thinking about Scott Dixon, this marks the first win for the Ganassi since Scott came on bore.  Halfway through the that arrangement, can you better judge if adding the third car has been more of a help or hindrance to your own program?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  I mean, at some points, it was a help and at some points it was difficult.  I think Team Target showed that they are very good because they handled it very well, but what was really difficult is to put a third guy in the middle of the season.  I think the team is more than prepared  -- if they had a chance to prepare themselves before the season, it would be much greater.  But now, after two or three races, they figure out the way to do and now it's running pretty smooth. 
 
Q.  Chris Pook recently indicated he sees CART in its present incarnation as a feeder series into Formula  1.  With that in mind, is that something you still have any aspirations for in the future, or do you look at Jensen Button and say, "What if I had gotten the Williams ride"?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  My dream when I was a kid was to race in Formula  1.  This one, have a chance to drive for a winning team in Formula  1, I would take it.  But it's not something that -- because I already drove Williams for such a long time, and I'm not like worried if that doesn't happen.  As I said, I want to have fun here in America.  I'm very well, thank you.  But if the opportunity came and if it would be a good opportunity, I'll think about it and maybe we'll take it. 
 
Q.  In Denver, I'm wondering if your suspension setup and the mechanical grip side was anywhere close to a rain setup to deal with all of the bumps; and on the arrow side of things, if you set it up for maximum grip or maximum lift to just take you over the bumps.
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  Yeah, that was a pretty different to make a setup as I said before.  All of the cars were really difficult to drive.  Not just because of the track, but because it's very high there, and they lose a lot of downforce, a lot of pressure, and then the wings, they don't well as they work on other racetrack.  Knowing that, you made some change to make less bounce to have, work a little bit more efficient than other places. 
 
Q.  Two weeks from now at Rockingham, that's going to be a quite a switch from a slippery road course to an oval.  Are you looking forward to getting back to the oval?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA: I'm looking forward to going to England because I lived there two years.  I like England a lot.  It's going to be a lot of fun.  I hope we can get a good weather this year and show a good race in Rockingham.  I think that's a pretty fast oval, a lot of grip, and I hope we can do a good race. 
 
Q.  Do you have setups from last year that you think will work, or if it's dry, you're going to have to kind of start from scratch again?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  I'm going to start from scratch  -- couldn't practice before I go race last year, and really nobody made any setups.  It was that race, I feel it was more of a guess than everything because we didn't have practice time.  I hope this year we can do some practice and make a good setup for the race. 
 
Q.  You're not going to be able to get any test time in though before the actual practice, are you?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  No. 
 
Q.  Are you going to be visiting old friends or looking for any possible rides over there if something doesn't work out over here?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:   I don't know.  Maybe.  If they have a good chance in Formula  1, maybe I'll take it, but it looks to me like all the top three Formula  1 teams, they already have drivers.  It's more likely that I'm going to continue here in America. 
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  It's going to be really difficult, but, I mean, I know that to have a good oval setup, to be really fast, in Motegi, Milwaukee and Chicago.  And I also try to find a good balance for the car and do a good race. 
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  Yeah, it's kind of difficult because Cristiano did well in Rockingham last year and he won the race in Fontana, and I think he'll be good, as well.  I'm not counting him out.  For sure, I'm going to see if I can finish in front of him and get the points a little bit smaller. 
 
Q.  Just want to ask your impression, the especially last two weeks in two new cities, Montreal and Denver and the huge crowds especially in Montreal, and three days over 100,000 in Denver.  Obviously, people love these urban Grand Prix type races.  I wonder if you guys sense the same thing; that you have so many people coming to your races, but all anybody wants to talk about is why there may not be a CART somewhere down the road.  Do you find that odd since you are in the paddock seeing all these fans there?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  I believe in CART.  After someone that was in Montreal race, you could not believe that crowd.  That was the nicest race of the year, I have no doubt about it, I think everybody enjoy it.   I maybe didn't enjoy it because ten laps to go, my car stopped, but I think it was really fun.  And you know, first time that you race there, all of the grand stands were back, and I'm sure  -- I believe a lot in Chris Pook.  He will find a way to make CART back next year and strong and strong.  I believe so much in Chris Pook that in two or three years, CART will be stronger than ever. 
 
Q.  It just seems that this format, we had you out here in Long Beach, and of course we get to see you on an oval and street course where we are, but it seems like no matter what the future of open-wheel racing is, that they have got to look at the huge crowds you had in Canada, what happened in Denver, Long Beach, everything else, it just seems to me like it's a no-brainer; they have got to continue to do these things with open-wheel racing in America?
 
BRUNO JUNQEIRA:  Actually, I think the sponsors want to see people watching the race, and that's what CART has, you know, live.  It's not  -- not just something that you can measure, but when you go to the race and see those people screaming your name, supporting you and watching your car racing, that's the big thing about  -- that's what the sponsors want and that's what makes you exciting, and I think that's going to make CART stronger than before. 
 
JON FOGARTY: Thanks a lot. 
 
JON FOGARTY:  It sounds great.  It still has not fully sunk in.  I keep replaying it over in my mind and it's a good feeling.  The weekend was  -- it was fantastic.  We went into it on a level playing field, since nobody had ever been to the Denver circuit.  It was an entirely new circuit, but my crew has been pretty good at developing the car and we always have a good baseline to show up with.  It was looking a little grim.  Valiente was quite a bit quicker than everybody in the early sessions of the weekend, but we got our program underway from at race time we had everything we needed to get up front. 
 
JON FOGARTY:  It was good.  Everybody was in good spirits.  It was a fantastic night.  It was very well done.  Really cool.  I won a new car, which I wasn't aware of.  I'm pretty excited about that.  I had a good time.  It was just great to be able to be there with my team, and actually great to be there with all of the other teams, who you don't really get to spend  -- you don't get to spend time with them during the season.  There's so many quality people involved in the whole Atlantic series.  You know, it's like suddenly you realize there's all of these people that you get to know that as a champion, you might not be coming back next year.  So it's a little bit bittersweet. 
 
JON FOGARTY:  I don't know.  It's a Toyota, obviously.  They are going to call me and let me know.  Probably a Matrix or something, although I'm pushing for a Lexus. 
 
Q.  When you realized the championship was going to be yours, you just said a moment ago that it's just starting to sink in but, when you realized it on the track, your first impressions, your first thoughts, what were you feeling?
 
JON FOGARTY:  It's an interesting feeling.  I mean, I was still nervous.  My crew had informed me that Valiente had spun and I was in the lead at that point, and I knew that I just had to basically finish the race to get the championship, and at that point it was a bit of a relief.  But, you know, anything can happen and I knew I had to bring it home.  So there was a lot of focus going on in the car.  I didn't want to let that focus down until I got the checkered flag, but once I took the checker, it was pretty huge.  It was tears of joy, just pure excitement, relief.  My crew, just being able to do it for the screw, and so many people that I wanted to win the championship for, not just myself, it was just elation.  It's hard to describe. 
 
Q.  The closing lap after you learned that Michael had spun out, is that the longest stretch of racing that you've ever been involved in?  Although it  -- I'm talking about  -- did it seem like everything slowed down?
 
JON FOGARTY:  It did.  This is going to be hard to articulate, but it was kind of like time was standing still.  So, the moment took forever.  But at the same time, I don't actually remember it taking a lot of time.  It was like  -- it was -- it's a place I've never been before in my entire life of mind set.  The pressure, you know, the desire to get everything done and get the championship.  It did take a long time, but thinking back on it, it all seemed to go very quickly.  I had a lot of confidence, not only during the race, because my car was so good, but going into the weekend, for whatever reason, and the week leading up to the event, I just had a really positive outlook on it, and I think that was part of the key to success for this weekend. 
 
Q.  I had a football player tell me over the weekend after catching a big pass for a touchdown, he said it's all in :  If you dream it, you can achieve it.  Is that your story?
 
JON FOGARTY:  That's pretty much it.  You know, in not having that little bit of doubt in the back of your mind really let's you kind of live  --  makes the dream possible.  I knew what we had to do.  I just kept a positive mental outlook, telling myself that it could be done.  I won't say I knew it could be done, I knew it was going to happen, but I just had a good feeling about it, for whatever reason.  It was kind of odd, but I played out so many different scenarios in my head leading up to the weekend of what needed to happen in order to win the championship, but I knew the easiest way to get it done would be to win the race.  So that had been my focus since we left Montreal. 
 
Q.  Talk about missing the second half of the Indy Lights season last year with a back injury, could you elaborate on that?
 
JON FOGARTY: It did not bother me one bit this year, which was fantastic.  The whole development is a bit of a mystery, which is frustrating.  We ran the first part of the season, we had some good results.  I had some minor incidents, one at the Texas Motor Speedway on the oval there, but I didn't have any, you know, pain after that wreck there.  After that race, we went and did a really extensive test at Mid-Ohio and then the following week we came back to Bakersfield and started to test at our local track.  Got in the car, first time I went to the brakes, in the heavy braking zone, something gave, and it ended up being a disk in my neck between, I think my C5 and C6.  It was pinching a nerve.  I was completely debilitated.  I could hardly even move.  We met with a lot of doctors, did a lot of things.  Surgery was definitely an option but I didn't want to get cut into.  I didn't want to have any fusions in my spine.  Didn't sound like a lot of fun to me.  So kind of kept our heads up and talked to as many doctors as possible to seek out alternatives.  Went through physical therapy.  Kind of took care of itself, thank God.  So it ended up, you know, not being a huge deal, but missing last half of last season was certainly frustrating, because we had  -- Dorricott always provides me with a good car and I had a lot of missed opportunities.  This year, it's been fantastic and I haven't had any problems. 
 
Q.  Given that the four Toyota Atlantic Champions before you have not managed to land a champ car ride, how optimistic are you of reversing that trend for next year?  And assuming that doesn't come to pass right away, are you prepared to spend another season in Atlantics to defend your championship?
 
JON FOGARTY:  Yeah, I would be prepared to spend another season in Atlantics.  The Toyota Atlantic organization is a great place to be.  It's not the ideal thing after you win the championship to come back, but definitely a place that I enjoy, and the competition is good.  I know that my skills would continue to improve if I was to come back to Atlantics.  However, I think that winning the championship this year, I think it's a good year to have done it.  The field was so deep, there was so many talented drivers.  A lot of good teams, and CART right now is pretty high on nurturing their ladder series.  I think that's definitely to my advantage.  I think they want to show that the ladder series works, so hopefully I'll be able to benefit from that.  Nonetheless, I'm going to put in a lot of hard work.  The season is done, but not over.  So there's a lot of work to be done.  I have a lot of confidence.  I have a good feeling about it. 
 
Q.  Have you ever tested or driven at Willow Springs at all?
 
JON FOGARTY:  Yeah, I raced there in Formula Vee's back in '95 and in the Formula Dodge 2-liter  in  '96 or  '97. 
 
Q.  I'm curious, I was talking to Chris last week and next year is their 50th anniversary and they were already talking to NASCAR about getting a Southwest Tour and he's really intrigued by the prospect of some sort of Indy car race or possibly even the Atlantics.  From what you know of that track  -- they will have to upgrade fan accoutrements  -- but in terms of the track, what do you think about it as a possibility as a future stop on the circuit?
 
JON FOGARTY: It's an awesome racetrack.  The layout would be killer.  It makes for good racing.  It's unbelievably fast.  It would be a good layout.  But the problem you have there is every time you go off track  -- you'd have to  -- there's room out there, but there have to be improvements in the runoff, as far as smoothing it out so you don't run into too many rocks and boulders and that sort of stuff.  But there's room to do it, so that would be really cool. 
 
Q.  Do you think that might be a nice place to  -- for a performance test the celebrity drivers for the Long Beach thing and I think it would be kind of cool, in advance of the Long Beach Grand Prix, like a heads-up race, it looks like it might be a possibility?
 
JON FOGARTY:  That would be cool. 
 
Q.  Did you have any problems setting up the car for Denver like the champ cars did?  It seemed like you all were not flipping the steering wheel all that much out there?
 
JON FOGARTY:  Well, you know, we got about a quarter of the horsepower.  That makes for a little bit of that.  But it was certainly a challenge.  The whole Denver weekend I thought was awesome, very well done and the turn out was fantastic.  As far as the driver in and engineer goes, Bruno had mentioned it earlier, the surface changes were definitely challenging.  We focused on getting the car good on the concrete, which I think was most important because most of the corners leading on to the long straightaways were concrete.  So we focused on making our car handle there and kind of gave up a little bit on the slicker asphalt surface.  Not being turbo-charged, our engines are not able to create their own atmosphere like the CART cars.  So we were a little bit worried about what the altitude was going to do to our pour, and at the same time, having the air density so low so we knew we could not make the downforce we wanted.  It was a challenge.  We definitely went the right way.  It was a great weekend, obviously not because we won the championship and won the race, but I think we learned a lot actually about what we can do with the car. 
 
Q.  You certainly gave an exciting race, the whole series, and an exciting race there on Saturday.  Now after the end of the season, you said your family didn't really quite understand why you got into racing, but I know they were there this weekend.  Do they have a better understanding, are they more excited about it?
 
JON FOGARTY:  They have always been excited about it.  Neither of my parents have any sort of background in racing.  It's just something that kids seem to like to do.  They are definitely excited about it.  They keep telling me I'm taking years off their life every time there's a race, like the one we have at Denver  -- I think when the flag goes green, they are about the same color as that flag.  At the end of the race, you know, they are happy that I'm doing well.  You know, my dad just likes to see competition, whether it's a football game or a race.  He's into it, for sure. 
 
Q.  Certainly the shots I saw of your mother, she was excited through it and showed as much emotion as anybody else there.  What are you going to do now, other than work on sponsorship at the end of the season, go back to work on the winery?
 
JON FOGARTY:  Yeah, there's always stuff to do around the winery.  Since I've been away, really, quite a bit last couple of years, my position there has changed and they have found people to fill my role there.  So I'll go and see what's happening and help out however I can.  It's kind of nice ending the season so early.  It's going to give me the opportunity to go to a number of the CART races.  I'm planning on going to Miami, Fontana, and if everything worked out, it would be a lot of fun to go to Australia.  So I have to look into if that's in the cards. 
 
Q.  I thought your father, Tom, raced?
 
JON FOGARTY:  My brother. 
 
JON FOGARTY: Yes. 
 
Q.  And also you made mention about it being bittersweet memories because you might not return.  Have you solidified your  plans?
 
JON FOGARTY: I have not.  My goal, of course, is CART.  I'm going to do everything in my power to get that done and make that happen.  I've had offers from Dorricott to come back if I choose to come back to the series, and it's a great place to be.  I love everybody on the team.  I would be happy to come back there if something didn't turn up.  The future is wide open.  I'm going to do everything I can though to end up in a CART car next year. 
 
JON FOGARTY:  Really, the most important thing that I took away from that weekend was just the contact I established, a relationship with a few of the guys on the team.  That's always good to know people.  You know, Newman/Haas is  -- they are obviously a very, very good race team.  They are a race team.  They are not doing anything magical.  They are just all doing their job to the top of their ability and they are doing it very well.  You know, it's good to see that there's no  -- there's no huge tricks that you need to win races and win championships; you've just got to be with people doing a good job.  It was good to see that and it was good to meet those guys.  It was a good group of people.  It actually reminds me of what we have at Dorricott racing. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT