NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 31, 2013
Brent Seabrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Brent Seabrook. 

Q.   Brent, what you overcame in the last series, how much can that help you in this series?
    BRENT SEABROOK:   You know, it's huge coming out and playing the way we did in the last few games of last years.   It was huge for our team.   Gave us some confidence, got us some momentum, showed what we could do. 
    Detroit is a great team.   We have a lot of respect for them.   They played a tough series.   It was good for us to come out and play like that, play that way.   It gave us some confidence and gave us momentum going forward. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
    BRENT SEABROOK:   I don't know.   I think this is a group that we talked about it in the dressing room.   We don't want our season to be over.   We fought hard to be in a good position and we want to continue to roll. 
    We talked about if we give it our all, we got nothing to lose now.   We got to go out there and give it our best. 

Q.   The Kings are a physical team, finish their checks.   How is that different than what the Red Wings are trying to do?
    BRENT SEABROOK:   The L.A. Kings are a great team.   They showed it last year all season, in the playoffs so far.   They're a big, physical, strong group.   They got guys that can score up front.   They got a great goaltender, great defensemen.   Do a great job of letting Quick see a lot of pucks.   It's going to be tough for us. 

Q.   Your series with Detroit had a lot of praise for the style of game it was.   The Kings series was more of a shut‑down, grinding type of game.   Can you play the same game against them you played against Detroit?
    BRENT SEABROOK:   We're going to try.   We're going to play our game.   We have to worry about ourselves.   The L.A. Kings are a great team.   They're worried about us, we're worried about them. 
    We have to come out and try to establish our game right off the bat and have a good first period tomorrow night.   I think the first period is going to be huge tomorrow and we have to try to set the tone early. 
    Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT