NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
June 1, 2010
John Madden
Brent Seabrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. John, there's been some questions about the crowd and how they'll be tomorrow. You've played a lot of interesting games here. Do you have any particular story, whether it's the vocabulary the crowd uses or what is different about this crowd? Anything specific you can give us?   
 JOHN MADDEN: No, nothing comes to mind, but they're definitely loud. They're definitely into the game, and it's safer to be playing on the ice than to be a Chicago fan in the stands; I can say that.   
  
  Q. I'm just curious. How many times have you been asked this spring about the crowd either in Chicago or wherever you go? And does it honestly make any difference at all to you? Do you think where you play what the crowd sounds like? Is there truly a difference?   
 JOHN MADDEN: We've played in some big hockey markets in Vancouver and San Jose. The crowds have been unbelievable. Obviously at home in Chicago it's been great. We've had that question asked a lot.   
 Now, coming to Philly, I haven't played here a lot, but from Sharpie and Eags and a few of the guys that have played against the Flyers, you know, it's a fun barn to play in. You know, the crowd's going to be a lot of fun.   
 BRENT SEABROOK: I have no idea how many times that question's been asked. But the building here is great. I've played here a couple times in the Playoffs. It's a fantastic building to play in. I think it can play to a team's advantage, especially Philly's. If they're playing well, and the team's going well, their fans will let them know it. So it can be to their advantage for sure.  
  
  Q. John, the trend here as in the San Jose Series there were at least three games that could have gone either way down to the end. Two games in this Series could have gone either way, frankly. But you guys win them all; how come?   
 JOHN MADDEN: Somehow we end up with more goals than them. You know, I don't know. We've just been able to hold our composure a little better. Obviously, Dustin Byfuglien in the San Jose Series came up with some big goals for us. Timing is everything.   
 But we've just been able to hold on, or get the penalty kill at the right time or the power-play goal, and that's always been the difference. That's playoff hockey.   
 A lot of times people will look back on a Series and say, you know, San Jose could have won a few games if they just had a couple breaks. But right now we're getting the breaks and hopefully we'll continue to get those.   
  
  Q. Brent, Peter Laviolette talked about how he wants to get at Antti Niemi tomorrow night and make him feel like a rookie and crack under the pressure. Can you talk about what Antti's mindset is like and why you don't think he'll buckle in Game 3 or at any point in the Series?   
 BRENT SEABROOK: He's pretty calm, cool, and collected. He doesn't let much bother him, at least nothing that we can see. He's pretty quiet in the room. He does his own thing and makes big saves.   
 He's been huge for us all year, and teams have tried to get at him and get traffic and bump him a little bit. You know, he's really answered the bell. I don't think he lets that stuff get to him. He just continues to play his game, which has been great for us.   
  
  Q. John, is there any difference when you have a 2-0 lead going on the road as opposed to the last Series you were coming home with the lead? Now you're going on the road with the lead. Is there any more caution or anything like that with this team having history of making comebacks and they're looking to get going at home now?  
 JOHN MADDEN: I think, if anything, we'll be more aware of what's going on. Obviously, in the San Jose Series coming back up 2-0, we thought we were a little more in control because we were going to be playing in our building. Obviously, those games were tight and could have gone either way.   
 But in this particular case, this Game 3's huge. We're not concerned about where we're playing hockey. We're concerned about winning games. So having said that, we're looking at Game 3 as a pivotal game. If we can get that, obviously, we like our chances more.   
  
  Q. Why do you think you guys have had such success on the road? I know you don't necessarily care where you play. But it is a little more difficult to play on the road; isn't it?   
 JOHN MADDEN: For some. I think we just play a more simple game. We're not so worried about line matches. We're not so worried about certain things. We're just out there playing hockey and sticking together. When we're able to play a simple game, we seem to be able to roll the lines and have better forechecking and just keep playing.   
 The best thing I can say is it is a simple game. We're not concerned about where we're playing; we just go out there and play hockey.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk about your role with this team over the last couple of months? Obviously, this is a very young club overall. Have guys leaned on you for advice? I know a lot of them made the semifinals last year, but this is a little bit of a different animal here.   
 JOHN MADDEN: Yeah, there's been a lot of talk and just one-on-ones with a few guys. Lots of questions about my experience playing in maybe this building or in certain Finals certain things have happened. I just shared my experience.   
 My role on this team has just been to try to provide a solid, steady, fourth line center.   
  
  Q. As a team, how much have you all discussed the history of a home team that's won the first two games of the Stanley Cup Final 31 times, and went on to win the Series twice. But twice the teams have not done it last year and the '72 Blackhawks. Have you guys discussed that or talked about that?   
 JOHN MADDEN: No. Didn't know that stat. We don't like to talk about that kind of stuff. You know, we're focused on winning Game 3 and that is where our focus is and where it's got to be.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT