NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 2003
Brent Seabrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Any expectations that's you were going to Chicago?

BRENT SEABROOK: Not at all.  Chicago did talk to me about three times and it was really, I don't know, I didn't really know what to expect.   I guess Chicago sort of given me an opportunity to play and show my stuff.

Q.  Tell me about your game, strengths?

BRENT SEABROOK: My first pass out of the zone and use my physical play.  I feel like I use my shot effectively and I get to the net and create some offensive chances with my shot. 

Q.  You don't mind mixing it up and playing physical?

BRENT SEABROOK: Definitely a strong part.  Got to be more consistent with it, obviously, but I definitely like that part of the game.

Q.  Leadership ability, what do you think you bring to the table there?

BRENT SEABROOK: I don't know.  I am very vocal.  I like to lead by example, and I just -- I like to, I guess, I don't know, I just like to be the leader and like that role, and I think I take it very well. 

Q.  Any timetable on when you'd like to eventually be in Chicago?

BRENT SEABROOK: I think I'd like to play next year.  Obviously I don't  -- I don't know what is going to happen and in what their plans are for me but I'd like to -- definitely feel like I can jump in next year. 

Q.  Prospect camp next year or you hope to be?

BRENT SEABROOK: Yes.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

BRENT SEABROOK: I had a tough first half and with everything, broke my hand early, it was a tough first half and definitely got it under control and took a few deep breaths and got it under control for the second half.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

BRENT SEABROOK: I thought they were interested.  They just interviewed me three times, so I had a little sense.  You never with these things.  You never know who is going to pick you, I guess. 

Q.  Obviously a big day?

BRENT SEABROOK: It is a great feeling.  Sitting up there twiddling my thumbs; my palms were sweating and just a great feeling to have my name called and hearing the name, it was awesome.

Q.  Franchise has a lot of history.  Have you followed the team at all?

BRENT SEABROOK: Original Six team, right?  That's awesome, lots of history behind that.  It is a great feeling. 

Q.  How is it now to have a NHL jersey over your shoulder?

BRENT SEABROOK: Awesome.  It is a great feeling, and savor it for a couple of weeks here.  I know work is ahead of me and this just the first step, so got to keep going.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT