NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 24, 2015
Brent Seabrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   They keep making a big deal in the Ducks' locker room about how they're wearing you down.   They say they're targeting your top four defensemen.   Is there anything to that or is that an overblown storyline?  
    BRENT SEABROOK:   They're coming harder, they're being physical, got a fast team.   But we got a pretty good group back there.   Our forwards are doing a good job at helping us out, making it a little easier for us coming back, limiting odd‑man rushes, so we can get the puck out of the zone quick, not take as many hits.   
    You know, I feel fine.   
   
 Q.   You have at most three weeks left in the season.   Any doubts that you can get through that without any problems?  
    BRENT SEABROOK:   I got no doubt, no.   Like I said, we got a good group.   We got a good training staff.   We get a lot of rest here from the coaches.   
    You know, it is what it is.   
   
 Q.   You were credited with 52 hits last night.   Is there a chance you're wearing them down, as well?  
    BRENT SEABROOK:   I don't know.   I think it was nice to see us come out with an effort like that.   It was a big game for us last night.   We needed that win.   Arguably could have been the most important game of the playoffs for us, to come out with a win last night.   
    We gave it everything we had.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Brandon Saad and the penalty kill.)   
    BRENT SEABROOK:   Saad has been huge.   He's been a big part of our team for the last couple years.   He's really shown what he can do in these playoffs, scoring that goal last night.   
    It was an unbelievable goal, to see how fast he went up the ice, being able to put that in.   
    He's been a great player for us for a long time here.   He's been big in the playoffs.   
   
 Q.   Brent, is there something in particular that allowed Toews to get the upper hand on Kesler in last night's game?  
    BRENT SEABROOK:   I don't know.   Toews is a great player.   Coming off of the third period last night, we needed to have a big period, do what we could to give ourselves a chance to win that game.   Hoss made a great play to find him.   Toews made an even better play to get it over Andersen.   It was a good game by our team last night.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel fortunate to be tied or do you feel you could be up 3‑1 or have swept at this point?  
    BRENT SEABROOK:   It's been a tight series.   I think both teams are great teams.   It's been a tight series.   I think you could look at the games and say that any of the games could go either way, so, yeah.   
   
 Q.   After the previous three multiple overtime games, you guys have lost.   Maybe it's coincidence.   In case it's not, any particular challenge in kind of restarting your engines for the next game?  
    BRENT SEABROOK:   I don't think so.   We're going to go out and look to have a good Game5.   
    I think last game, Game3 was it, it was a tight game.   It could have gone either way.   We were one post away from tying that and going into an overtime again.   
    We got to come out with a good effort off the start.   I think our starts are key.   When we start well, we usually give ourselves a chance to have a good game and get a win.   
    That's going to be tomorrow's theme, I'm sure, getting off to a good start and trying to do some good things in a hostile building in Anaheim.   
   
 Q.   As the series progresses, do you feel your team's ability to be comfortable in games like that, do you think that becomes a bigger advantage, or is this such an even match it's a coin flip every time?  
    BRENT SEABROOK:   I think it's an even match.   I think both teams are out there doing a lot of great things.   I think both teams have opportunities to win every night.   
    Going into overtimes for us, we've been in a lot of 'em the last couple years.   We have confidence going into overtime.   I think it shows.   You're going to give up some stuff and you're going to get some stuff.   It's how you respond to those kind of things.   
    I think our team does a good job of just sticking in the moment and playing.   You know, hopefully we come out with the win.   
   
 Q.   I think it's four wins now in these playoffs in games in which you guys have given up at least three goals in one period.   How do you avoid melting down whenever that happens?   
    BRENT SEABROOK:   I think we scored three goals in a period last night, too, so...   
    It's part of the playoffs.   Playoffs have a lot of ups and downs.   Like I said about overtime, I think we have a confidence in our group.   We've seen a lot of stuff over the years that doesn't really faze us.   
    We needed to take a deep breath last night and get refocused.   We did.   Our power play came up with a big goal to tie it up.   We were able to get a nice goal from Vermy there, a nice pass from Sharpie.   Nice play from that line.   It was nice to get that win.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Brent.   
    BRENT SEABROOK:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT