NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 27, 2014
Bryan Bickell
Brent Seabrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
BRENT SEABROOK:   I think, like you said, it's a new experience, a new team.   We're looking forward to getting out there tomorrow night.   I know the guys were being up beat on the plane this morning, at breakfast this morning.   We're looking forward to getting out there tomorrow and trying to get some momentum back and start feeling good about ourselves again.   
BRYAN BICKELL:   We need to take it one game at a time.   We have nothing to lose.   It basically comes down to our special teams right now.   If we get them going, we could have been in both those games.   
We have nothing to lose.   Hopefully we get the momentum tomorrow.   Hopefully we can get it done.   
   
 Q.   Brent, on the penalty kill, have you spent time looking at the video?   Are the Kings doing anything differently?  
BRENT SEABROOK:   They have a good power play.   They do things well.   We've been looking at things all series.   
I think there's been a few mistakes.   I think last night in the first period was non‑characteristic by our team.   I got to be better.   I was out there for both those goals.   I got to be better in those situations to help out Crow, help out everybody on the ice.   
We have to get the job done.   That's a big part of this series.   We haven't been scoring on the power play.   We want to try to keep the goals‑against down.   Seems like they're taking on a pretty good pace in the power play.   
   
 Q.   Bryan, you always want to score first in every game.   How important will it be tomorrow night?   
BRYAN BICKELL:   Yeah, it definitely is important to spark our team, the crowd, our bench, to know that we can do this.   Even if we don't, we need to stick with it.   It's do or die.   We need to take it one shift at a time, one game at a time.   
   
 Q.   Bryan, with the dump and chase, doesn't seem to be working a lot.   What do you think the reason is for that?   Are they beating you back to pucks?   
BRYAN BICKELL:   I think it's our desperation.   We need to be more desperate, win those board battles.   Need to keep it more simple.   Some plays we're trying to make the next play where the first play would have been the play.   
If we keep it more simple, win those battles, we have a good chance.   Again, leave everything out there tomorrow and hopefully it will pan out.   
   
 Q.   You're pretty cool about facing these situations.   At this point is there a point where you have to be a little more desperate, not be so cool about it?  
BRENT SEABROOK:   I don't think we're trying to be cool about it by any means.   We don't want to be down 3‑1 in a series ever.   
We came back from it last year.   It was great for our team once we started rolling.   We're going to be a desperate hockey team tomorrow night.   We have to come out and lay everything on the line or else our season's over.   We understand that.   
I think going back to Detroit last year, we know it can be done.   Looking at L.A. this year, they did it against San Jose.   
There are situations where things can be done and we just got to come out and give it our all, come out and play our game.   Go out there, lay it on the line, let the chips fall where they may.   
At the end of the night we have a victory and flying back to L.A. and talking to you in L.A.   That's our focus right now.   
Like I said, I think the guys are upbeat and excited for the game tomorrow.   We're going to get some rest tonight, get some food in us, be focused for tomorrow morning, try to get this thing going again.   
   
 Q.   Five‑on‑five goals, uncharacteristic.   
BRENT SEABROOK:   Like I said, I got to be better.   Doesn't just start with a penalty kill.   It's every facet of the game.   We all got to be out there doing the things that are going to make us win the game.   
I think some things happened last game that are uncharacteristic, but at the same time you have to give L.A. credit.   They're forcing us into different situations.   
We got to be better and we will be better.   
   
 Q.   Bryan, how comfortable were the three of you feeling together last night?   
BRYAN BICKELL:   Yeah, I think for us to get something early, I felt last game we only got one, felt like we could have got three or four.   We needed to spark our team and give that energy in any shift.   If the momentum is down, we have to lift up the team.   
We feel good.   We feel confident.   We're that close.   We just need to stay with the pucks, play our lights out.   
   
 Q.   What is the key to winning the power play?   
BRENT SEABROOK:   Shots.   We got to get stuff at the net.   That's the biggest key.   Haven't had a lot of shots in the series, especially on the power play on the road.   Got to come in with better possession.   If we're not being able to cross the line, we have to do different things to get possession and try to get good looks.   
Bicksy said it, sometimes trying to make that extra play, that pretty play, isn't going to work against these guys or a lot of teams.   We got to try to find a way to get pucks bang it in, ugly goals.   We start doing that, things might start changing.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess the overall mood of this team right now?   Are you angry?   Disappointed?   
BRYAN BICKELL:   I think a bunch of both.   We're disappointed we're in this situation, down 3‑1.   We're angry that we could have been easily tied in this series or up.   We let some games slip away where we played good hockey for 40 minutes and then kind of gave it up in the third.   
We just need to focus on tomorrow and bring that 60 minutes, have a purpose every shift, do whatever it takes, do the right things.   
BRENT SEABROOK:   Yeah, I think, like Bicksy said, guys are angry, pissed off.   They didn't like that game last night.   I thought we played well for a period and a half, two periods.   We had a tough start.   You got to play three full periods in the playoffs to win.   We weren't happy with our game last night.   
I'm sure guys had a tough time sleeping last night.   We got to focus on tomorrow night, doing whatever we can to win, being a desperate hockey team out there to try to get the job done.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT