NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 17, 2014
Brent Seabrook
Patrick Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Facing this team for the second straight Western Conference final, any parallels you can draw or has too much changed?   
BRENT SEABROOK:   I think it's tough to compare year to year, even regular season to playoffs.   They're playing really well right now, so we got to be focused on what they've been doing the last couple series and the way they're playing.   Seems like they're never out of a game or out of a series.   
If we get up, got to step on their throats.   If we're down, we got to work like hell to get back.   At the end of the day we have to focus on our game and focus on what we've been doing, get better at that and be the team that we can be.   
   
 Q.   What is the advantage of you having another period of rest after the St.Louis series versus them playing Friday night, flying today?  
BRENT SEABROOK:   I can't really speak to what they're going through.   For us, it's a similar situation to the first round, had a couple days off, got a chance to watch our opponent play.   
I think the days off helps every team this time of year, get some rest, allows you to prepare for your opponent.   
At the end of the day, once that puck drops tomorrow, I think both teams are going to be ready to play.   
   
 Q.   Brent, if you watch the Gaborik‑Kopitar‑Williams line, gives them something different in terms of dynamic.   What makes them dangerous and what's the challenge for you to try and neutralize them?   
BRENT SEABROOK:   Yeah, it's going to be a tough task, absolutely.   The way they've been playing, I think they've got speed down the wing.   They got a guy in the middle of the ice that controls the play, is able to do things that not a lot of centermen are able to do with his size and his speed, the way he can see the game and set his linemates on.   
Gaborik, the way he skates, definitely poses a threat and a problem.   
Then you have Williams, who is a great finisher.   He's got a lot of experience.   He knows how to step up and play big in big games.   I think they got a little bit of everything on that line.   We're going to have to be ready to play them tight, hard, physical, play our game against them.   
   
 Q.   You have played a ridiculous amount of hockey in the last year and a half, maybe more than any team ever has.   Do you feel the effects of that?   Is it harder mentally or physically?   
PATRICK SHARP:   I think at this point you just continue playing, business as usual.   We kind of like the fact that the break wasn't too long.   Had a couple of good practices in between, staying in the hockey mindset.   
We played a lot of hockey in a short period of time last year with the lockout, short summer.   A bunch of us played in the Olympics.   It's been a long grind, but we couldn't be more excited to be where we are right now.   
Four teams remaining, we're glad to be one of them yet again and can't wait to get started tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Patrick, when that fourth line has been in place, what benefit is it?   
PATRICK SHARP:   They were very good for us all season.   They provided a spark at different points in the regular season.   On a game‑to‑game basis, a team that can roll four lines, keep your shifts shorter, do the things that our coaching staff wants us to do.   
You look across the ice at the Kings, they're a good four‑line team, as well.   Play very similar hockey.   I think you always hear the term 'every shift is important' and with our four lines, it's true.  
   
 Q.   How tough is Jonathan Quick?  
PATRICK SHARP:   He's good.   Last year, a lot of questions were about Quick.   Top goaltender in the NHL, one of them.   Got a lot of experience in the playoffs, the Olympics.   He's good at everything back there:   moving the puck, making saves.   You have to do your best to out‑work him as a forward, get the second and third opportunities in front of the net deflections, rebounds, where he doesn't see it.   
I'm sure they're saying the same thing about Corey.   It's a tough time of the year to score goals, especially when you're playing against a goalie like Quick.   
   
 Q.   Not to denigrate the Blues or the Wild, but the Kings are a championship team.   Does that heighten your focus, your resolve, whatever it is that you need in a series?   
BRENT SEABROOK:   I mean, I think I touched a bit on that earlier about they've played the first two rounds, they were all but out in the first round, they found a way to scratch back and win.   I think that's what you're talking about with being there before, being in situations like that, never giving up.   
They're a great team over there.   They've shown it over the last three, four years that they can play with anybody and win a Stanley Cup.   
Our focus is to go out there and play our game and worry about us.   We're a confident group.   We like our team.   That's how we're going to go about it.   
   
 Q.   If you could compare last year's Kings team to the one you're facing now.   
BRENT SEABROOK:   It's tough to compare.   Not really sure how to speak on their behalf.   Just playing against them, very similar teams.   Great coaching staff.   They're a pretty physical team in all areas.   They're disciplined.   They got guys at all lines really that can score goals and provide offense, and their power plays have been playing really good.   
Compare them last year to this year, who knows.   They're a tough team every game we play them.   I'm sure it will be a heck of a series again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT