MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 24, 2000
John Franco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  The people on the broadcast were talking about Joe wanted that matchup of Glenallen Hill, six-for-twelve against you, hit a couple homers.  Were you aware of that? Were you thinking about the six times you got him out?
 
JOHN FRANCO: Well, he's gotten me over the years on some big hits to end the game.  I was just trying to keep the ball away from him tonight; hopefully, hit a fly ball, a ground ball to rightfield.  If he hits a fly ball to rightfield, just tip your hat to him.  Not too many guys get the ball to rightfield.  He's one of them.  He's very strong.  I did my job tonight to get him out.  
 

Q.  Your first World Series' win.  How do you feel about that?
 
JOHN FRANCO: I'm ecstatic.  But, more important, we won the ball game.  I told the guys inside, it doesn't matter who got the win or who got the save, as long as we won the ball game.  We needed this win bad to go 2 -1.  If we go down 3-0 , it's going to be tough.  I'm happy I was in the right place, right time.  But the main thing is the ballclub won the game.  
 

Q.  Now that everybody's back to talking baseball again, how much has that helped the team to concentrate on just the fact that you have a positive; and on top of that, we're just talking baseball, not talking about some off-the-field controversy?
 
JOHN FRANCO: Hopefully, everybody's forgotten about that incident.  I've said there's nothing you can do about it now, it's over with.  Just concentrate on playing baseball.  That's what everybody wants to see, some good baseball.  We went out there tonight and played some good baseball, both teams.  Yankees are unbelievable.  They just don't quit.  We don't quit either.  So it's going to be a heck of a series.  Hopefully it goes nice and long.  
 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about Rick's performance tonight?
 
JOHN FRANCO: Like, again, I told the guys inside that Rick Reed did a hell of a job tonight.  He went inning for inning with El Duque.  We knew Rick Reed was capable of pitching a game like that.  He kept us in the game, gave our guys a chance to score runs.  That's what we ask of him.  And hopefully Bobby Jones will come out tomorrow and do the same.  
 

Q.  Breaking a 14-game winning streak here, does it feel to the players, too, that now it really is a series?
 
JOHN FRANCO:  I think so.  14-game winning streak and El Duque was 8-0, 9-0, you're assuming something had to happen.  I'm just glad tonight that we won a ball game.  I think everybody inside is feeling good about themselves right now, and we still got a long way to go.  It's 2-1.  Hopefully tomorrow we'll come out and even it up.  You have to take one game at a time and one inning at a time.  
 

Q.  Bobby had said playing in your own ballpark helps.  But as a New Yorker, does it really feel like when you go to The Bronx, you come here, like it's a Subway Series, is it an away-and-home, as if you were playing in St.  Louis or something like that?
 
JOHN FRANCO: Let me tell you, you put this uniform on and go into The Bronx.  You'll know the difference for sure.  (Laughter.)  Yankee fans have been great.  They were great the first two games out at Yankee Stadium.  Our fans have been waiting 14 years for this, and they were great tonight.  They were very supportive.  They've been very supportive through the whole playoffs.  They were very loud.  We just love it.  We love the noise, everything.  But playing in your own ballpark and having the support of your crowd instead of being on the road at Yankee Stadium, we like that.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT