NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 13, 1999
John Franco
John Olerud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. John (Franco), Al, when he was talking earlier, used the word "cock shot,"
what was the origin of that, is that a baseball word?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: No comment. 
 
Q. John Olerud, will you talk about Rocker a little bit? That he specifically -- Bobby
Cox was talking about bringing him on because he thought he had a better chance of getting
you out than Remlinger, even though you both are left-handed?
 
 JOHN OLERUD: Well, I think both those guys are good tough left-handed pitchers. Rocker,
he's got a great fastball and a real good slider, and you've got to be ready for the
fastball, but then he can also throw the slider for a strike. So I think having two real
tough pitches like that makes him effective, and he can throw both of them for strikes. 
 
Q. In the past he seems to set up using his slider against you with his fastball. Last
night, he threw three straight fastballs, what was your mindset in going into that at bat?
 
 JOHN OLERUD: Yeah, in the past he has thrown me quite a few breaking pitches. And last
night, he just came at me with fastballs, and threw the fastballs in good spots, the first
one up and in, and the last two fastballs were on the outside part of the plate. So, yeah,
he definitely pitched to me different. I'm not used to seeing all fastballs like that from
him. 
 
Q. John Olerud, do you have a preference hitting inside, outside? Today you'll be
hitting inside the cage, or is it a matter of just getting enough hits in?
 
 JOHN OLERUD: I think most hitters would like to hit outside, but hitting in the cage is
fine. You just want to get some swings, get loose, that sort of thing. 
 
Q. John Franco, Yoshii the other day mentioned that the weirdness, abnormal guys on the
pitching rotation is what makes your pitching so good. And Al Leiter has -- he mentioned
Al Leiter as the weirdest, and Al Leiter was kind of laughing at that because he says
that's the -- that's what he uses to relieve some of the pressure. Can you talk a little
bit about Al Leiter's demeanor? 
 
 JOHN FRANCO: Al just takes it real easy. He's very emotional. He's been in big games
before in Toronto, Florida and here; so he knows what it takes to prepare himself for
these type of games. He's been around a long time. He's been around a lot of great
pitchers; so just the way he prepares himself I would say gives him a little bit of edge
amongst most of the guys in the locker room because he's been there before. 
 
Q. Why would Masato consider him weird?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: Because he's left-handed. 
 
Q. How did the Braves fans treat you last night?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: Me, personally? I had no problems with them last night. Last time we were
here, it was a handful of people in the bullpen that were nasty to myself and Dennis Cook.
Well, all the guys down there. They start drinking and get sauced up, and that's what
happens. But most of it was all in fun last night. But the last series we were here, in
the 16 years coming here, that was probably the worst I've seen. 
 
Q. Of either one of you, with all the great plays that Ordonez made, is there any one
that stands out for you this season?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: All of them were great to me. I'm a pitcher; so I love every play he
makes. He's a highlight. You can't really pick one out. I remember when I first got here
in 1990 when he threw a pitch and a ground ball was hit, you were afraid to look back, you
would just go by crowd reaction. Now, when you throw a ground ball, you want to see the
plays the guys make. John, being on all other end of the great plays from Rey, you can't
just pick one out. He's the highlight film, and time and again, you don't know how he gets
to the ball or makes the plays, but he makes them. 
 JOHN OLERUD: I would have to agree with John. You can't single out any one play. He's
made great plays going to third base, made great plays going up the middle, charging
balls, balls where he's -- seems like he's rolling on his back and makes a throw. And I
would say probably the thing I appreciate most about Rey is that with all the off-balance
plays he makes, he hits me in the chest more often than not with the throws; so as first
baseman, that's what you like. He makes my job real easy over there. 
 
Q. John Franco, you just mentioned this, but there was a time where the Mets infield
was described as anything from a disaster to very, very bad. Was there a singular turning
point, an acquisition, a philosophy, where you saw it change, maybe the beginning of
genesis? 
 
 JOHN FRANCO: Yeah, when Alfonzo came up and they got Ordonez and they signed Johnny and
they signed Robin. Before that, it was average, but now these guys are in a class of their
own. 
 
Q. Johnny, what do you remember about Remlinger, as far as were you able to project in
your mind maybe some day this guy would be a good reliever?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: When Mike was here, he didn't have a role, he was between starting and
relieving. And I don't think felt comfortable. He's now a middle reliever, short reliever,
set-up for Rocker. He's always had a great arm. Coming over here and watching the veteran
guys over here, he's probably picked up a few things, how to pitch a little more. He's
older, more mature now, and learned to pitch watching Glavine and Maddux. And those guys
here that have a tendency, I'm sure, to pick up one or two things from them. And with Leo
Mezzone, too. 
 
Q. You mentioned how the crowd treated you the last time you were here. How do you
think your crowd will treat these guys come Friday night, and does it depend at all on
whether it's 1-1 or 0-2?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: They'll probably treat them a little crazy, I'm sure, whether it's 1-1 or
2-0. The Met fans have been waiting a long time; so I don't think it will be anything out
of the usual that we haven't seen in the last ten days or two weeks at Shea with the big
crowds we have there. 
 
Q. John Olerud, Al Leiter mentioned earlier that the New York crowd for the home team
can pump you up and elevate everyone's concentration level. Would you agree with that? You
seem like you can concentrate in solitary confinement?
 
 JOHN OLERUD: Yeah, well, I think the New York crowd, especially the last few home games
we played at, they've been great. They're standing on their feet from the first inning on,
rooting on a strikeout or the guys to get a big hit. So I think it can be intimidating to
the opposing team, and in the same way, pump up the home team. 
 
Q. John Franco, I apologize if this has been asked, but what does it mean to you as a
New Yorker to play in these games? And also have you been contacted by 700 people who
claim they played ball with you in high school, that kind of thing?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: It means a lot. Growing up as a Mets fan and being here probably the
longest, of the players in the locker rooms, not being in the playoffs it meant a lot just
to get in there. I'm getting tired of being the longest active player not in the playoffs.
So finally that you're in the playoffs, you can wipe that slate clean, now. But I've had a
lot of people contact me and said they played against me. "I hit a triple or double
off of you," and so on, same old stuff. Just yes them to death, make them feel good,
and just go on. 
 
Q. Johnny, you had a sort of weird relationship with the Mets fans in that they'll boo
you at the ballpark or cheer you. What's the most clever, memorable thing that a fan at
Shea Stadium has ever yelled at you?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: I don't even know. There's been so many things, I can't remember, to tell
you the truth. Nothing really sticks out in my mind. I can't control how they feel or
whatever. I've just got to worry about doing my job on the field. I can't control whether
they say nice things or bad things. I just can't worry about that. 
 
Q. Has anything ever been so clever that you just have to laugh?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: I laugh every time I'm out there. I laugh inside to myself. But I can't
really remember. 
 
Q. John Olerud, could you talk about Glavine, and other than the obvious things, where
he differs from the other three starters that you'll face in this series? 
 
 JOHN OLERUD: I don't know. I think the thing that makes this pitching staff good is
they pitch. They throw the ball to the corners, they change speeds, and I think that's one
of the things that he does real well is he hits his spots. He keeps the ball on the
outside part of the plate, and he also changes speeds out there. He makes a lot of his
pitches look the same, and they'll move differently late, and I think that's what makes
him so tough. 
 
Q. Is there a sentiment among the hitters on this team that knowing how good this
pitching staff you're facing is, that when mistakes are made by them, you really have to
jump on them much more so than any other team? Is there ever a time when you just feel
like there's no room for error?
 
 JOHN OLERUD: Well, I think that's the way it is. You want to play against everybody.
Anytime a team makes a mistake, you want to capitalize on that. They're good pitchers; so
they're not going to get rattled. When they have a mistake, they're going to still try to
make good quality pitches. So the at-bats are tough, against any team. You're going to
want to capitalize on them. Do you feel like you have to take advantage of every one? I
don't know. You'd like to, but that's not always going to work out, and you know they're
going to pitch you tough; so you have to try to 
 -- you want to make the most of every opportunity, definitely. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT