NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 9, 1999
John Franco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. As a former St. John's University baseball player and as a follower of Tug McGraw
"you gotta believe," do you think there will be a Subway Series in New York?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: I don't really want to think about Subway Series right now. We have got to
think about Atlanta. We are enjoying right now the moment about what happened 20 minutes
ago so we are just enjoying that. All that other stuff if it happens it will be great.
Right now we have to worry about playing the Braves in a couple of days. 
 
Q. After all the years you spent on the Mets and now you are in the NLCS Championship,
can you just say a little bit about the last inning coming out and holding --
 
 JOHN FRANCO: I get up three times and warm up before I even come in the game, I was
just hoping that I didn't run out of gas and leave it down in the bullpen. Once you get
called in the game your adrenaline starts going, trying to stay composed and stay within
yourself. The main thing to to do is come out try and throw strikes and give my guys
behind me a chance to feel the ball and keep the ball down; don't make a mistake. That is
what I did. 
 
Q. John, you were in here at the end when Todd was finishing up. What did you think
about what he was saying about him not being the hero?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: Maybe in his own mind he doesn't think but I think there is 24 or 25 guys
in that locker room think he is a hero today. Todd Pratt has got the toughest job in
baseball sitting behind one of the best catchers, one of the best players in baseball. And
sitting day in day out not being able to play got to be tough. So, the thing about Todd is
he keeps working and works hard and when the opportunity comes he takes advantage of it.
The two weeks that Mike was hurt earlier in the year, he did a helluva job and now that
Mike got hurt yesterday and today, he called a good game yesterday and did a hell of a job
today. 
 
Q. You went 2 and 0 on the first two hitters; how did you feel coming into the game?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: I felt fine coming into the game. Couple of those pitches were close; it
could have gone either way. Main thing is I got him out, I don't care if I went 3 and 0 on
the first two. As long as I got them out. If I can get out it gives us a chance to win
like you said before. 
 
Q. You said you have to think about the Braves now. Are you glad it is the Braves after
all the history?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: Well, you know, they had their way with us this year that is for sure. We
just hope that we can continue to play well the way we have been and hopefully we give it
a good series. The three games that we played down in Atlanta were 3 tough games and the 3
games we played here were tough games. If that is any indication of what is going to
happen it is going to be a helluva series. 
 
Q. So many improbable things are happen to go make you guys move forward now. Is there
such thing as a team of destiny and are you one?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: Well, if you think about it, the wild pitch against Pittsburgh; dropped
fly ball today, backup catcher hitting a game winner home run, maybe there is something
going on here, so we are just going to enjoy it while we can. 
 
Q. Growing up you have lived through all the Mets great moments. Now you are a part of
one of those moments. What do you remember about those other things, 69, 73? 
 
 JOHN FRANCO: I remember Tug McGraw and 69 Mets when they were, you know, down by so
many games they came back to win. 73 of course you remember the fight with Pete Rose and
Bud Harrelson. 86, the team I was playing in Cincinnati they were such a good team that
you hated them even before you even played them. The history of this team and it has been
a long time, just to be part of it right now growing up as a Met fan, getting the win
probably biggest game here in 11 years, I am ecstatic right now. Words can't describe how
I am feeling inside. I am just enjoying the heck out of it right now. 
 
Q. I know your focus is on Atlanta. Will you go home tonight and root for the Yankees?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: I always root for the Yankees I am a New York fan whether it be the
Yankee, Mets, Knicks, Jets, Giants, I am so-so about, but -- if it is a New York team I am
going to root for them. I got a lot of friends on the Yankees and Mel Stottlemyre old
pitching coach, David Cone, Strawberry, Tino Martinez, Allen Watson, you know, I root for
them. 
 
Q. Take a long road to get here, a lot of turns along the way. At this point sitting
here right now would you have changed any of that?
 
 JOHN FRANCO: Well, sure like to win a lot sooner that is for sure. But you know,
sometimes good things happen to those who wait and hopefully some more good things will
happen down the road. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT