NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS VS. BUCKS
May 23, 2019
Brook Lopez
Malcolm Brogdon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Raptors - 105, Bucks - 99.
Q. Fourth quarter there they had five offensive rebounds and it seemed you guys were putting together good defensive possessions and that was the thing that was letting you guys down.  Is that a deflating feeling when they kept coming up with the bounce?
BROOK LOPEZ: Yeah, it was tough.  Obviously we've got to do a better job.  It starts with me, and we just can't have that.  Obviously it gives them new life, gives them momentum, and we need to cut that out.
Q. This is kind of a position none of you have been in this year.  You haven't lost three in a row, haven't had your backs against the wall.  What's it like in that locker room after the game, and what's the mindset moving forward?
BROOK LOPEZ: I think it's a similar mindset.  We're just on to the next game.  We're not thinking about winning two right now, obviously.  We just want to go out there and get Game 6.
Q. The three-point shooting has been obviously such an important part of your game all season.  This series you just haven't been able to hit the shots that you normally would.  Are you guys still happy with the looks you're getting and is the confidence still there to keep letting it fly, only 31 attempts tonight is a low number for you guys.
MALCOLM BROGDON: The confidence is definitely still there.  That's what Bud preaches every day, but you've got to tip your hat to them.  They've done a good job guarding the three for this series.  We're arguably the best three-point shooting team in the league and they've done a good even limiting our attempts.  We've got to figure out ways to get the ball moving and to have open shots.
Q. Malcolm, Kawhi affected the game in so many ways tonight, and you had a pretty good view of a lot of it.  Can you talk about, number one, his ability to run the offense through him, his ability to distribute, and his effect on the game from the defensive end?
MALCOLM BROGDON: Yeah, he's a very -- one of the most versatile players we have in the league.  He's a great player.  You've just got to make him uncomfortable.  Tonight he was able to get to his spots and affect the game on both sides.  We've got to be able to limit him if we're going to win the next game.
Q. Malcolm, the first thing Bud said when he came in here was about how resilient this team is.  Where do you find that extra level of resilience now?
MALCOLM BROGDON: I mean, if we don't have it now, our season is done.  We've been resilient all year, and we're going to rely on each other and lean on each other as we've done all year, and go out and compete as hard as we can.
Q. Toronto, obviously you had two big wins on the road there during the regular season, didn't go to plan this last week, but what do you take from those wins early in the season, and is that something you can, I guess, lean on going in there and feel comfortable you can extend the series?
BROOK LOPEZ: Yeah, it's a great environment to play in.  Their fans bring a lot of energy.  I definitely think our team will be up for it.  We're ready for the challenge, so we just have to obviously go out there and take care of business.
Q. Brook, just wondering on the one play with like two minutes left where Leonard launched a three and then he wound up getting the rebound under the basket and Giannis fouling him, how deflating was that given the situation?
BROOK LOPEZ: Yeah, it was tough.  They had multiple offensive rebounds, and he obviously made a big play.  To chase down his own three, get there all the way on the baseline and make a play.  We just have to be better in those situations.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT