NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Brook Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  BROOK LOPEZ:   I'm on the team.   It's an honor.   By no means did I want him (Rondo) to get hurt or anything like that.   What happened, what happened.   I'm happy to be here, no question.

Q.   Does that kind of make you ‑‑ the fact that you were picked by Commissioner Stern kind of keep a chip on your shoulder to get voted in as a starter next year?
BROOK LOPEZ:   Not really.   Like I said, I'm happy to be here.   I don't think there is any way that it could really dampen my attitude toward it.   Obviously I'm an All‑Star and I'm happy to be here.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
BROOK LOPEZ:   My family is coming out.   I knew from the get‑go he wasn't coming down. 

Q.   How special is this for you?
BROOK LOPEZ:   It's huge for me.   Like I said, it's something that's been a goal of mine pretty much my whole basketball career.   To finally be at an All‑Star Weekend it's very surreal. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
BROOK LOPEZ:   He is a hundred percent not here.   I can tell you he's not thinking about this right now. 

Q.   Does it bother you because there may be a time you're not in the game anymore?
BROOK LOPEZ:   I have to take advantage of when I'm here.   I'm here right now. 

Q.   Besides an NBA player, what did you want to do growing up?
BROOK LOPEZ:   I always wanted to be a writer.   Like screenplays, novels, stories, whatever. 

Q.   What about advice for kids?
BROOK LOPEZ:   Whatever you want to be when you grow up, whatever your dream is, set goals and keep working to achieve it.   Never give up. 

Q.   You wanted to be a sportswriter? 
BROOK LOPEZ:   It's writing.   You never know. 

Q.   Do you have a favorite screenplay?
BROOK LOPEZ:   Not really.   I took play writing, screen writing, short stories.   I probably enjoyed my short story and play writing class the most.   My final assignment in play writing class was have different assignments put together to be a final play.   We didn't do it, but I brought it out and we had a table reading.   I brought friends in, I brought Landry Fields ‑‑

Q.   For the reading?
BROOK LOPEZ:   Yeah, because he was on my team. 

Q.   What was the play about? 
BROOK LOPEZ:   It was more humor‑adventure, probably.   Nothing dark.   That were some dark ones, I don't get those

Q. (Inaudible).
BROOK LOPEZ:   I think it's good for our guys to get a good break these few days, and be ready to come back and keep our focus going the rest of the season.

Q.   What do you need for the second half of the season?   What are your targets?
BROOK LOPEZ:   You know, I really think we just need to maintain and heighten our focus and be consistent in the last few games.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
BROOK LOPEZ:   I'm definitely happy to be here.   I think here, especially with a game going smaller. 

Q.   Who is the toughest opponent so far?
BROOK LOPEZ:   There were a lot.   There's a lot of good centers in the lead, there's a lot of good talent. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
BROOK LOPEZ:   I'm probably looking forward mostly to just getting on the floor and being on the floor with the best players in the league.   I'm excited to play with the best players in the league. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT