WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2013
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. ROBSON/M. Erakovic
  1‑6, 7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Match of two halves.   How can you explain the turnaround?
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, well, yes, in the beginning she was just playing really, really well.   And, you know, her serve was firing, so I wasn't getting a chance on her service games. 
Then, you know, wasn't quite, uhm, hitting the ball well enough in my service games as well.   So she was just on top of things. 
Yeah, that's the way it goes sometimes.   But you just have to hang in and wait for them to start making a few errors. 

Q.   Were you concerned the game was going to run away from you, such a big occasion? 
LAURA ROBSON:   No, I wasn't worried about that.   I was just, uhm, trying to play a bit better on the court and, uhm, trying to, you know, get a few more forehands in, get a couple of backhand angles in, just go from there.   Just not really think about the result. 

Q.   How much did the backing from the fans help you, do you think?
LAURA ROBSON:   Massively.   I thought they were so great, uhm, especially towards the end of the second and the whole of the third set. 
Uhm, I don't think they had much to support in the first set, uhm, but, yeah, you know, they were amazing.   I thought they helped a lot. 

Q.   What are your emotions on reaching the second week?
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, well, it's now my second time in the second week of a slam, so that's pretty cool.   Except at US Open I played on the Sunday, so it didn't quite feel like a second week, and my brother said it didn't count. 
But, yeah, this time will be on the Monday, so that's pretty cool. 

Q.   Did the guy at the end get you to do something on his iPad, get an autograph? 
LAURA ROBSON:   A couple of people have asked me to put my finger on their iPads.   I think it's some sort of fingerprint thing.   I have no idea what it is. 
So, yeah, I just put my finger there.   I'm going to have to ask one of them what it actually does. 

Q.   How much do you have left to improve?   Do you think you're hitting your peak or can you go on and play better?
LAURA ROBSON:   I can definitely play better than I did today.   But it's tough to play your best tennis all the time.   You know, what I've been working on is just accepting that I'm not going to play great tennis in every match. 
I might have a couple of good games here and there, but the majority of the time I'm just going to have to, you know, work on being super‑consistent and, uhm, yeah, go from there. 

Q.   Obviously you're 19 and have a long career ahead of you.   How important is it to get some of these big, deep runs at this stage of your career and win while you're young?
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, yeah, you know, it's good to do well, especially at Wimbledon.   Uhm, but, you know, I'm going to be playing for like another 10 years, so, you know, it's all bonuses for now. 

Q.   Is there any come‑down now from being on Centre to being moved down to Court 2?
LAURA ROBSON:   Court 2 is still pretty big.   There was a decent‑size crowd in there today and they were making a lot of noise, so the atmosphere was still good.   Any court here is a good court. 

Q.   There was a distinct momentum change.   Was there one specific point where you thought the game changed around?   Could you see her tightening up when she was serving for the match?
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, I think anyone would be tightening up serving for the match in that situation.   And, uhm, knew that she hadn't made the fourth round of a slam.   That was what I was told.   So, yeah, I kind of just tried to put the pressure on her serve, and she made a couple of double‑faults, which helped me. 
But, uhm, yeah, you know, I knew that that was my chance to get in her head a little bit, and that's what I did. 

Q.   Has your mum been in touch?   Any chance of her coming over from Greece for the second week? 
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, I don't think so.   I'm doing okay without her here. 
But, no, 'cause then like it's a whole other situation and then, you know, breaks your rhythm a little bit.   So you need to have the exact same thing all the time. 

Q.   Andy Murray said in his documentary that he admitted freely he was very boring.   Do you ever manage any life outside of tennis?   Or is this it now at 19?
LAURA ROBSON:   I hope it's not it (smiling). 
No, I do, I guess, boring things, but normal things outside of tennis.   But, yeah, the majority of the time I'm focusing on, you know, how to improve and things like that.   But that's the choice that I made. 

Q.   A lot of your predecessors would have crumbled at that point mentally.   I wondered how you coped with that out there. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, well, I was just kind of trying to play, you know, percentage tennis on my serve and then, you know, go for it in the rally, because she was hitting massive forehands.   So, you know, just focused on one point at a time rather than thinking about winning.

Q.   But at the point in the second set when she looked like to be heading, how do you... 
LAURA ROBSON:   I just tried to hit a ball.   Yeah, that was pretty much it.   Once it got to 5‑All, I thought, This is my chance to get ahead in this match.   Yeah, I took it. 

Q.   What do you think of Harry Styles tweeting you?   Are you going to tweet him back? 
LAURA ROBSON:   I think we covered all that in yesterday's press conference. 

Q.   With your Australian grandparents, have they been communicating with you at all either before your game or since your victory?
LAURA ROBSON:   I've heard from them since I won, and they were super, super happy, which is lovely.   They were all at my uncle's house watching.   Yeah, there was like 50 of them there. 

Q.   You told me at Eastbourne that your idea of a good night in, relaxing away from tennis right now is watching Hannibal.   There was a killer instinct you went for her in the third set. 
LAURA ROBSON:   I see what you did there (smiling). 
You know, even in the third set I had a point to go 5‑Love up, which I think I should have taken 'cause, you know, from then on it started to get a little bit tighter and I got a little bit nervous, as well. 
But, you know, I knew that I was gonna have to just stay tough and hold my serve.   And, uhm, yeah, I'm happy.

Q.   Can you give us some insight into what you do in the evenings to put tennis out of your mind?   Are you watching violent television?
LAURA ROBSON:   I finished the season of Hannibal.   I haven't got too much to watch right now.   If you've got any recommendations, let me know. 

Q.   A lot of stats will come out about the first time since '98 we had a British man and woman through to the second week.   This will put you up into the top 30 since Jo Durie in '87.   Are you aware of these landmarks?   Does that take care of itself as you go through the tournament?
LAURA ROBSON:   I didn't even know about it until you tell me.   Yeah, I just focus on, you know, playing my match.   Things like that, things that actually matter.

Q.   We've seen you rising up the rankings.   Is that not something that... 
LAURA ROBSON:   I mean, it's a good things.   Hopefully this means I'll be seeded for US Open.   But I don't go into the match thinking, If I win this, I'm going to be top 30. 

Q.   I wanted to ask about your next match against Kanepi or Alison Riske. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Have they played yet? 

Q.   Just started.   Talk about each of them briefly. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, Alison is a grass court specialist.   She has this unbelievable stat, like 10 of her 11 or 12 main‑draw matches that she won were in Birmingham.   That's pretty decent for grass. 
I don't know too much about Kanepi.   I saw her play Tara first round, so I'll be watching that match now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT