AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2013
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/L. Robson
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on that match.   
LAURA ROBSON:   I guess it was better than when I played her in Paris.   You know, I think I definitely had chances, and I got myself into a very good position in the points sometimes and just, you know, couldn't finish it off.  
Yeah, you know, just a bit disappointing, obviously, but in general better than Paris, I guess.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   When we were in Paris you were saying you were working piecemeal on bits of your serve.   Have you seen any improvement since coming back?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I think my serve has improved, you know, getting a lot more pace on my first serve, which is what I wanted.  
In general, the double faults are going down, which is good.   But, you know, I'm still not 100% confident in it, because I have only just, you know, just changed it.   So it's going to take time and it's going to take more practice.  
   
 Q.   You seemed the more attacking player out of the two of you out there.   Was that the game plan, to try to take the game to her?  
LAURA ROBSON:   That's pretty much my game plan no matter who I play.   Caroline is quite a defensive player.  
That's how she's always played, so, you know, if I tried to play defensive, then I probably would have lost a lot easier.   
I just thought, you know, sometimes I went for a little bit too much, but against her that's how you have to play sometimes.  
   
 Q.   What can you take out of this week going into next week at Wimbledon?  
LAURA ROBSON:   You know, a lot of good things.   I think in general I'm hitting the ball well.   I'm serving better.   I thought I returned pretty well today.   
So, you know, you have to look at the positives ahead of next week, and, you know, I'm going to get back to Wimbledon and have a couple of good days' practice before the first round.  
   
 Q.   Was there anything today that you thought that Caroline did that made it difficult for you especially?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, she just defends really well.   You know, she always gets one extra ball back.   
Yeah, I thought, you know, her forehand was a bit better than usual today, as well.   
   
 Q.   When you play Caroline, obviously she's so good defensively.   Do you feel a little bit of extra pressure to put those balls away that sit up?   Does it put a bit more pressure on you because she's so good at getting them back?  
LAURA ROBSON:   In a way, but, you know, I expect myself to be hitting those shots well, anyway.   
Yeah, today there were a lot of points where I set everything up and did all the right things and then just missed the last forehand, which isn't something that I usually do, because I usually feel, you know, very confident in that shot.   But things happen.  
   
 Q.   Would you have hoped for a different opponent?  
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   You know, it was interesting to play her again after only a couple of weeks.   
Yeah, you know, you have to play whoever is in front of you.  
   
 Q.   Obviously emotions run high.   I have to ask, the BBC microphones picked up you swearing on court.   Do you have anything to say?  
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   I'll try not to swear so loud next time.  
No, I don't think I did it loudly.   It's just the microphones at the back of the court pick it up.     But, yeah, I will try not to do it at all next time.  
   
 Q.   Again I have to ask, people said that were obviously watching, they said that you rushed off and didn't sign any autographs afterwards.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, on the way from the centre court to the locker room I signed about 200, so, yeah, I don't think that's an issue.   
   
 Q.   You've played a lot of big players on big courts now in the last year, so in terms of the draw next week, would you be very happy to avoid one of the big names on the big courts and have a slightly more comfortable path at the beginning?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, I'm happy playing on any court against any player.   Yeah, I'm just happy to be playing at Wimbledon.   
You know, I don't need a wildcard or anything like that, so pretty happy with how things are going.  
Yeah, you know, ideally I'd like to not face Serena first round, but you have to play whoever you get.  
   
 Q.   That must be very encouraging, the fact that your end points, the way you're dictating the points, yet you didn't put away the final shot today but you're in that position?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, for sure.   In general I thought I defended better than I did in Paris and got myself into a lot better positioning in the court, as well.  
So it's just a couple of shots here and there and a couple missed first serves on big points.   It makes a big difference against a top player.  
   
 Q.   Do you ever sometimes think, wow, I'm one of the top 50 or whatever players in the world?  
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   (Smiling.)   No, because, you know, I want to be a lot better.   Being whatever I am now, like 30‑something, is not where I want to end up.   So to me it's not a massive deal being top 50.   
   
 Q.   Is the overriding emotion frustration now after that?   You were ahead in each set, and then is it frustration what you feel now?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Was I ahead in the second?   It was on serve.   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah.   It's frustrating to miss easy shots, but I played some good tennis, as well.   
I think after a match like that you have to go with the positives, especially the week before a Slam.  
   
 Q.   Possibly looking a little too far ahead, you have Wimbledon to contend with, you were so close to get a seeding.   Is the goal now to get a seeding for the US Open, or you just take it as it comes?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, take it as it comes, and, you know, see how Wimbledon goes.   I lost in the first round last year, so looking to do better than that.   
Yeah, you know, I play a couple more tournaments before the US Open this time around.   This last year it was really weird scheduling with the Olympics and everything, so I will be in America for a bit longer on the hard courts, which is good for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT