AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2013
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. ROBSON/Y. Beygelzimer
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Pleased?   
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, pretty pleased.   I thought I served very well, which always helps, and that's something I have been working on a lot.   I'm happy with that, but I'm definitely, you know, going to have to step it up another level against Caroline.  
   
 Q.   Your serve was working well today.   Was that a result of what you have been doing the last few days?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I've worked on it a lot in the last couple of weeks, and it was just a little bit better in Birmingham and a little bit better again today, and it's something that's just going to take time, and, you know, I have to feel ‑‑I have to have more matches like this to feel confident.   Especially, you know, when you're in a tight position in a match you want to rely on your serve.  
   
 Q.   The couple of break points you had in the first game against you, that must have been a confidence booster for you.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, for sure.   You know, I wasn't quite sure how she returns, so I thought, well, I'll go for big serves and see what she can come up with.  
   
 Q.   The contrast of abilities in your opponents is going to be huge.   Do you think you're ready to step up that far, or would it have been better to have had someone higher ranked today?   
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, the girl I played today has already won three matches this week so she's not playing too badly.   You know, I thought I was able to overpower her a little bit in the rallies, which was very helpful, because the grass I felt was playing quite soft today.   So it really helped if you were the first one to make the first move in the rally.   
Yeah, you know, it's going to be obviously tougher playing Caroline.  
   
 Q.   But a former world No. 1 is something else, though.   For the confidence that you'll get, how much extra expectations do you think will be on you next week if you win the tournament?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I haven't thought about that at all.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything you learned in Paris you can use on a different surface against her?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I think we both prefer grass, really.   I think in general I play better on grass than on clay, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow, and, you know, there's definitely things that I can do tomorrow that, you know, I messed up a little bit on in Paris.  
But hopefully you'll find out what that is tomorrow rather than me sharing now.   
   
 Q.   With your win against Williams, do you go into these games against top 10 players with a different mentality?   
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   I have always gone into all the tougher matches with the same mindset.   I have to focus point by point and not get ahead of myself even when I'm winning, because they have the experience to come back at any time.   
Yeah, you really have to, you know, to stay on it and keep focused.  
   
 Q.   Is there a little bit more belief?  
LAURA ROBSON:   No, I always had the belief.  
   
 Q.   Do you get up for matches against top players more than you do for lower‑ranked opponent?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, I was the higher‑ranked one today.   I didn't do too badly.   I think that's something I'm getting better at, but, yeah, you know, I think everyone can play good against tougher opponents.  
   
 Q.   If there's one area of your game that you could wave a wand and improve, what would that be?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I don't know.   There is a lot of things that I can improve a little bit, so I wouldn't want to just point one thing out.   You know, a couple months ago I probably would have said my serve, but that's something that I've worked on.   I think, you know, everything in my game needs to be improved.   
   
 Q.   How is it going with your new coach in the last week?  
LAURA ROBSON:   It's okay.   You know, this is just week 2, so, you know, we're still trying to figure each other out and seeing how it goes really.  
Yeah, for the moment that still is temporary, because, you know, we have only known each other for a week.   
   
 Q.   What will you do tonight?   Have a big night out planned in Eastbourne?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I don't know if anything is open past 10:00 here.   So, no, I don't think so.   I'm probably going to babysit Cara Black's baby.  
   
 Q.   What's Cara been doing?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, Cara kind of just palms him off to me a little bit, but I don't mind because he's adorable.  
   
 Q.   Baltacha won today.   She looks in good form.   Do you see her challenging your British No. 1 spot in the future?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I don't know what Bali's ranked at the moment, but, yeah, she's playing really well and won Nottingham last week.   It would be great to see her back in the top 50, for sure.   
That's not something I'm overly worried about because I want everyone to do well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT