DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 18, 2013
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Y. PUTINTSEVA/L. Robson
  6‑4, 2‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Must be very frustrating after the way you fought back in that third set.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I think in general it was a frustrating match.   It was just annoying for me, because I feel like I have been practicing a little bit better this week, and to come out on court and just feel very, very defensive the majority of the match is really disappointing.  
   
 Q.   You had some wonderful spells in the second set, and toward the end of that third set it looked like you'd run away with it.   How difficult is it to maintain that form to the finish?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I wouldn't say those spells are magical, really.   I just managed to get a few more balls in.   You know, unfortunately it just wasn't my day.  
I just either went for too much or too little, and I just couldn't find the right balance.  
   
 Q.   You're not very well?   You're coughing and you sound a bit...   
LAURA ROBSON:   I have had a chest infection since the start of the year, and so I have been on about four courses of antibiotics and nothing's gotten rid of it.   It's just something that I'm living with.  
   
 Q.   How difficult an opponent was she?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, she gets a lot of balls back.   When she has time on her forehand, she can really do a lot with the ball.   So she's always tough to play.   
You know, the last time I played her was Australian Open Juniors about two or three years ago, and, yeah, we have had some interesting matches before.   This is another interesting one.  
   
 Q.   Will you analyze it, or will you just try and forget it as quickly as possible?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I'll analyze it.   I analyze all my matches.   You have to try and learn as much as you can from one of them, even though some of them can be really bad.   You just have to learn from them and work a bit harder.  
   
 Q.   Will you be looking forward to some time at home now?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Honestly, I just want to keep practicing no matter where it is and start finding my timing a bit better.  
   
 Q.   With the chest infection, do you think you need to take just a few days off?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I'm seeing a specialist when I get home, and we will make another decision then.  
   
 Q.   So the chest infection was there all the way through the Fed Cup?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Oh, yeah.   It was on and off since the Olympics last year, and so now it's just worse.   But it's fine.  
   
 Q.   How does it affect you on court?   Do you have trouble breathing at all?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I can see you guys trying to make this into something, and I really don't want to go there.   
   
 Q.   Just a word on Dubai.   Obviously you had the problems with the luggage as well, and obviously you haven't played this tournament as much as you'd really like.   Is it a tournament you've liked and you'd like to come back next year?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, for sure.   All the facilities are really, really great, and it's so nice being virtually on‑site with the hotel.   I have really enjoyed it here and definitely going to come back.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT