QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 12, 2013
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. HANTUCHOVA/L. Robson
  6‑4, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk to me about the match and what was tough for you?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, you know, I'm a bit disappointed with how I played.   I thought my shots just weren't very consistent.   
You know, I don't really know how I felt going into it, because I haven't practiced virtually at all since Australia.   I just played a bit of Fed Cup.   
Yeah, my expectations were pretty low, but it's still disappointing to play that badly.   But I did think Daniela was serving really well today.   That always makes it tough.  
   
 Q.   Were the conditions tough?   It seemed a bit windy out there.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, it's windy, but yeah, it didn't really affect the way we both played, I don't think.  
   
 Q.   What do you lack in terms of consistency?   What do you think you still need to reach another level in terms of consistency?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, you know, there weren't too many long rallies, but when there was, I was definitely the one that was missing it.   
You know, in the next few days before Dubai I'm going to keep practicing on that.   So in my next match, hopefully it will be the opposite.  
   
 Q.   Do you think the Fed Cup right before was maybe too much exhausting for you?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I think everyone that played Fed Cup is a little bit tired, so it's the same for everyone.   Daniela played.   
Yeah, you know, I think we are all very happy to play Fed Cup and also happy to play here.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of the experience of playing in the Middle East?  
LAURA ROBSON:   This is my second time in Doha.   I played here last year.   I got really, really sick, so it's already better than last year.  
But, yeah, it's nice being here, and the hotel and everything is really nice, so I'm probably going to stay here for a few more days before Dubai.  
   
 Q.   You haven't played in Dubai before, though, right?  
LAURA ROBSON:   No, because I was supposed to play last year, and then because of my tonsillitis I had to withdraw.  
   
 Q.   Can you just tell me, you're now playing in fields ‑‑ like these tournaments have amazing fields with all the top 10 players and stuff like that.   How is it for you coming to these kind of tournaments in the Middle East and playing in these fields?   Are you looking forward to Dubai since you haven't played there?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, for sure.   You know, this was always one of my goals from last year to get in the main draw of all these tournaments.   
Last year I played quallies, so it's an improvement in my rankings by quite a bit.   You know, I have to keep working hard so I can be seeded for a Grand Slam, because that's my main goal for this year.   
   
 Q.   I don't know if you know, but there's like a large British contingent in Dubai.   Like when Andy plays there, it's like he's playing at home.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Oh, yeah?   Hopefully they'll come to my matches, then.  
   
 Q.   I know you're a fan of the British band, One Direction.   Have you been able to see the last video called Kiss You?   Have you seen this?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I have seen it, yeah.   Do you like it?   
   
 Q.   Actually, I like Zayn.   I think he's the cutest.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, he's kind of exotic looking, so that's pretty good.   
   
 Q.   Who is your favorite?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I like Niall.   He's so cute.   But their songs are so catchy.  
   
 Q.   We're talking about the voice?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, the voice.   (Smiling.)  
They all have good voices, though.   
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT