WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2016
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/L. Robson
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. What did you make of that match? Obviously some great moments, great points. Angelique seemed to have more consistency. Is that a fair assessment?
LAURA ROBSON: Very much so. She's No.4 in the world for a reason. The biggest strength in her game is not giving you any free points, especially on the return. So, yeah, it was tough for me even starting off, having that much pressure on each service game. 
Just kind of let it get away from me a little bit. Yeah, could have served better for sure. Could have returned better. 
But it's all things for me to work on in practice. 

Q. You seem quite down. 
LAURA ROBSON: I seem quite down? Probably because I lost. It tends to do it. 

Q. It's been sort of a short grass season for you. Are you fired up for moving forward?
LAURA ROBSON: I still have doubles here. Going to be around hopefully till the end of the tournament would be nice. I've already entered a couple of ITFs towards the end of July, pretty soon after the grass season ends. Definitely have those on my mind already. 
I want to win as many matches as possible and get my ranking up. Hopefully, you know, this time next year I'll be in a much better position.

Q. Where is your confidence now? Do you feel you have momentum to keep going?
LAURA ROBSON: For me, it's a massive win to be here and not have any niggles for quite a few months now, apart from a very small one in Eastbourne. 
I've worked very, very hard to be healthy, to be completely fit on court. It's 100% a huge goal for me to finish the year in the same way. 
Yeah, it's now about winning matches, as well. 

Q. You won junior Wimbledon 2008. Do those memories pop into your head at all? How keen are you to get some new great memories here?
LAURA ROBSON: No, I wasn't thinking about juniors when I was on the court. Obviously I love playing here, partly because of the crowd, how fired up everyone gets. I did feel that energy today. 
But for me it's really almost a new career. I'm not going to keep looking back at what I did when I was 14 and what I did a couple years ago. 
I am where I am. I need to work on improving that and not just looking in the past. 

Q. Could you hear any of the cheers for Marcus Willis when you were playing your game? Not suggesting you were paying any attention. 
LAURA ROBSON: I think everyone in the crowd heard them, to be honest. I heard the big roar, I assume is when he won. When the screen popped up with the scoreline, the crowd went nuts again. 
It's an amazing story. He's done insanely well. I believe he plays Federer now. 

Q. If Federer wins. 
LAURA ROBSON: If Federer wins, which I assume he will. Yeah, he was watching it in the warmup, as well. Everyone was enjoying Marcus' slice and dice.

Q. Obviously you share the same manager as Maria Sharapova. Any comments about that, thoughts about Maria, her sentence, the struggle she has to come back?
LAURA ROBSON: Well, the appeal is in process right now. It's not completely confirmed or whatnot yet. Yeah, for me, management is kind of the last thing on my mind. I'm just really focused on my tennis. Yeah, we'll see what happens with that. I don't really want to get into it. 

Q. Pain‑free as you were today, did you expect yourself to do a bit better? Was that really just as much as we could hope for given how little tennis you've played the last year or two?
LAURA ROBSON: I definitely hoped for better. My expectations are high because I want myself to do well and I want to play my best out there. I don't think I really did that today. 
I've been training really hard the last few weeks. To go out there and not play your best is definitely a disappointment. 
It will be good to get back on the practice court and put some more work in before the ITFs that I'm playing. 

Q. Jo Konta has made tremendous headway up the rankings. Is there any reason you can't do the same thing between now and this time next year?
LAURA ROBSON: Definitely not. Yeah, I think she took a wild card into Wimbledon last year, now she's in the top 20. So it can change very quickly. You get a couple wins behind you, get some more confidence, yeah, it goes pretty quickly after that. 
It would be amazing to be in the situation she's in now. But we'll see how it goes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT