AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2013
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STEPHENS/L. Robson
  7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you explain to us what happened there in the first set.   Had you arrived with a problem or did it happen within the match?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I felt something in my shoulder yesterday, but we still don't know what it is because I haven't had time to see the doctor or anything yet.   
But, uhm, yeah, you know, these things happen, and you just have to play through the pain sometimes.   But I thought Sloane played really well today.   
   
 Q.   How much did it affect you on your serve, what you could do with your first serve?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, I don't know how fast I usually serve, but I would say today was a fair bit slower.   
But, yeah, I just did what I had to do really.   
   
 Q.   Quite a long discussion during the medical timeout.   Did you consider pulling out?  
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel this match was any different than the one in Hobart?   
LAURA ROBSON:   I thought there were a fair amount of long rallies today, which there wasn't in Hobart.   So that's probably a good thing.   
Yeah, I thought we both played a bit better than we did last week.   
   
 Q.   Would we be wrong to assume that this is just the initial stages of a long series of the two of you playing against one another?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, we've played each other twice in two weeks, so I can see it happening again at some point, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You're both going right up the rankings.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I mean, you end up playing everyone a fair few times.   I'm sure I'll play Sloane a lot in the future.   I'm sure after today she's going to be top 20.   So good for her.  
   
 Q.   When the trainer was with you, did they know where you hurt?   Looked like you were in a lot of distress all down the left‑hand side.   
LAURA ROBSON:   So what is the question?   
   
 Q.   The question is, what was the extent of that pain?   It looked like you were in some considerable pain.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, I think you would be in pain, too, if someone was prodding into your shoulder.   So, yeah, the physios knew about it beforehand and I was taped up and everything.   
Yeah, they just came on and tried to help me with it.   
   
 Q.   What did you think of the support you got out on court today?  
LAURA ROBSON:   It was amazing.   Yeah, I was really quite shocked to see the whole court was full.   There were so many British people, maybe some Australians supporting me as well, which is good.   They were very loud.   
   
 Q.   There were some people saying they forced themselves to go watch the Seppi and Cilic match before yours to make sure they could have a seat for yours.   Were you surprised to be on such a small court?  
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   I think Show Court 2 is still relatively large.   Yeah, I was happy with the court choice.   There's nothing wrong with it.   I'm unseeded.   I think Sloane is seeded, what, 32 or something.   So, yeah, we're not both top 10.   So any court is a good court.   
   
 Q.   What time did you get to sleep after Kvitova and what was the rest day like?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I ended up going to sleep around 3:00, which is pretty good considering what time I finished.   
And, yeah, I woke up normal time yesterday, practiced, had another ice bath and, yeah, felt fine.  
   
 Q.   When did the shoulder start to become an issue?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Last night.  
   
 Q.   After some practice, or did it just come on?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, after practice.   I don't know what I did yet.   So we have to try to figure that out.   
   
 Q.   How does the week sit with you overall?   
LAURA ROBSON:   Pretty good.   I mean, last year I lost here 2‑Love first round.   It's a massive improvement.   There's still so many things that can be worked on.   But, yeah, I toughed out of the two wins.   
And today I thought Sloane played pretty well.   So, yes, still a pretty good tournament.   
   
 Q.   You say there are a lot of things you can work on.   What in particular?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I would say shot selection in the points.   You know, sometimes I still go for a bit too much where I'd be better off playing an easier shot rather than going for winners the whole time.   
And, yeah, you know, I think I can improve on anything.   Movement is still an in‑progress thing.   Lots of things really.   
   
 Q.   Is the shot selection a particular issue playing somebody like Sloane who gets so many balls back?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Against anyone, you know, if you try to finish the rally too early, it's never going to work out that well.   
So, yeah, I mean, Sloane obviously moves extremely well.   I thought today my shot selection actually wasn't too bad.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the shoulder pain is just the result of having played 11‑9 in the third the day before, or is it something more serious?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I don't know yet.   But I don't think it was to do with the match against Kvitova because I felt okay in practice yesterday.   Yeah, physically I was fine up until last night.   
   
 Q.   Is next up Fed Cup or anything in between?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I'm still entered in Pattaya.   Obviously I can still play there.   Definitely still looking to play Fed Cup.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT