LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
August 5, 2012
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIRNYI‑AZARENKA/Murray‑Robson
  2‑6, 6‑3, 10‑8

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you sum up for us what winning silver means to you on home turf, in your hometown. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, well, I don't really know at the moment because we were so close to the gold medal.   So for the moment I'm just a bit disappointed. 
Uhm, but, you know, it's been a really, really good week.   Just to be playing in the Olympics, I was really happy with that.   Uhm, you know, at the start of last week, I just thought I was playing doubles.   So to be a silver medalist is pretty cool.   I'm looking forward to seeing my medal. 

Q.   After the first set, you must have really thought like you were going to win gold there. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, I wasn't really thinking of gold at that point because we had lost the second set with one of the other matches.   Alls I was trying to do was play as well as I could, try and hold serve, which I didn't manage. 
But I thought we played well today for most of the match.   They were definitely a very tough team. 

Q.   Can you just tell us what it's like playing with Andy and what he's like on court and off court?   Do you hang out? 
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, we're not exactly going out to the cinema. 
You know, I think we play really well together.   Uhm, we played well, considering this is the only tournament we've played together since Hopman Cup at the beginning of last year.   Uhm, you know, it's always good to be playing with an Olympic gold medalist.   I've really enjoyed myself. 

Q.   What was it like watching him win singles gold earlier? 
LAURA ROBSON:   It was amazing.   I was so nervous.   Oh, sitting behind Judy was even more nerve‑wracking 'cause she was constantly talking, and I was just trying to calm myself down. 
I was thinking, Oh, please, just serve it out.   And he did.   He did so well.   The last game, he served incredibly well. 
It was definitely a very, very good moment. 

Q.   What have you learnt about yourself in the past week and what have you learnt about playing with Andy? 
LAURA ROBSON:   Tough question. 
Uhm, I don't know what I've learnt about myself.   Just that I like playing on big center courts with crowds like that.   They were incredible all week.   I just really enjoyed myself during every match. 
It was definitely, uhm‑‑ you know, I definitely put a lot more pressure on myself to be playing for Great Britain, so I was a lot more nervous in every match.   To get through to the final in one of the events was really good. 
And, uhm, you know, playing with Andy was great.   And, you know, I said thank you to him for playing with me because it's just been one of the best weeks of my life. 

Q.   Obviously today you faced the world No.1.   That's an opportunity that doesn't come around all the time.   How much confidence has it given you going forwards?
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, yeah, well, she's definitely the best player in the world.   Uhm, you know, she played really well today and she served really well when it mattered. 
But, you know, I'm getting my ranking up in singles, so hopefully I'll be playing her more often. 

Q.   Where do you go from here?   I'm assuming you're going to the States.   Is there any danger of it being anti‑climatic after here?
LAURA ROBSON:   I'll leave for Cincinnati on Tuesday.   I'll be playing Cincy, New Haven and then the US Open.   I'll be entering the US Open as a direct entry for the first time, which is pretty cool.   But I think anything is anti‑climactic after this first week.   This week has been a lot to live up to. 
Uhm, you know, all I can do is get back on the training court, work hard, keep playing my best. 

Q.   You said you were slightly disappointed with the silver at the moment.   But it is an amazing achievement.   What are you going to do to celebrate? 
LAURA ROBSON:   I think we have to do more media. 

Q.   After that. 
LAURA ROBSON:   I think the plan is for us to go to the Olympic Park and do some BBC interviews over there and then come back.   So I'm probably not going to have much time to celebrate. 
But I am planning on going to watch the gymnastics tomorrow, which is pretty exciting for me.   It's the first sport, other than tennis, I'll be able to watch live.   It's good to get one other event in before I leave on Tuesday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT