LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
July 31, 2012
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/L. Robson
  7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Big set point in the tiebreak.   It appeared you got a bad bounce.   Did it sort of shoot through?
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, well, you know, it was 5‑All and she hit a serve that bounced a bit funny.   So I was already a bit gone with that one. 
Then, yeah, you know, I hit a pretty solid serve, and her return, it just died basically.   But it happens on grass courts, especially when they're really worn, like centre is at the moment. 

Q.   You must have thought at some point you were in a very good chance of winning that match.   What are your feelings right now?   Disappointment or happiness with your performance, which has to be one of your best?
LAURA ROBSON:   What do you think? 

Q.   A bit of both maybe. 
LAURA ROBSON:   I think right now it's much more disappointment. 
You know, I definitely had chances.   I'm pretty sure that it's the same score as last time I played her, but today I felt it was much closer on her service games every time.   I think she played a lot better than last time. 
She had to go for everything on her second serve.   Even when she was missing the first serve, I wasn't able to step in as much as I'm used to on the second, so that's always tough. 
But, uhm, you know, at the same time it was definitely a good match. 

Q.   At least that's not the end of your Olympics with the mixed doubles announcement.   You must be looking forward to that now. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Absolutely.   You know, should be really fun playing with Andy.   We haven't played since Hopman Cup, I think it was 2011, so last year.   But, you know, we haven't played together at all since then, and most of these teams have been teaming up almost every tournament that they can in sort of the last two years to prepare for this, so it's definitely going to be tough. 
But, you know, I think we're both pretty good doubles players, so who knows. 

Q.   Can you tell us anything about the process, did you have to declare an interest, how much discussion was there, or was it put to you, Right, you're in, that's the decision?
LAURA ROBSON:   I asked him probably during Indian Wells this year.   I just said that I hadn't got a partner, and if he's interested, then I'm available.   You know, I didn't hear anything else really until the other day.

Q.   Have you spoken to Andy about it here in the last couple of days?
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   I saw him just before I went on today.   Just sort of said, We're playing Hradecka/Stepanek.   He said that was old news.   He's always up to date.   I can't offer anything (smiling). 

Q.   Given your results in the Hopman Cup, particularly the first time you played, you obviously work well together as a team. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah.   You know, Hopman Cup was definitely a bit different because it's an exhibition.   Obviously, people want to win, but I don't think it's going as serious as it's going to be this week. 
But, you know, there's no reason why we can't play well together.   I think I'm fairly decent at doubles, depending on how my serve is doing.   Andy is obviously one of the best returners in the world, so we've definitely got a chance.

Q.   And who is the boss on the court when you play?
LAURA ROBSON:   I think we're equal. 

Q.   I think it's a pairing that will excite British fans.   Are you looking forward to going out together and getting Wimbledon pumping?
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, Andy still has singles to focus on.   I'm fairly certain that's going to be his main focus.   If we get put on a big court, it should be a good atmosphere, like it was for my singles today.   Hopefully people will rock up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT