ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. PETKOVIC/L. Robson   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was always going to be a tough draw.  How do you feel you played?  
LAURA ROBSON: I mean, it's hard to be positive right now.  I feel like I had a lot of chances.  There was a lot of games that went to deuce, and it was also my brain switching off at deuce every time, which sucks really.  No other way of putting it.   
Yeah, so much to work on.  First serve percentage needs to be better.  Forehand strike needs to get better.  Lots to work on.   
Right now, very disappointed.   
 Q.  Do you have any regrets at all about using the exemption to keep playing on the main tour rather than playing the ITF events?  Are you happy with that decision?  
LAURA ROBSON: Yeah.  I don't regret playing this tournament or any other tournament that I've entered with my protected ranking.  I think it would be a waste to not use them at events I can get into.  It didn't really make sense to me to use them at 50ks when I'm going to do that anyway at the end of the grass season.   
No, I don't regret entering this tournament.   
 Q.  You talked about struggling mentally at deuce.  Have you spent so much time devoted to getting yourself physically fit in the last three years that perhaps the mental side of your game hasn't developed as it should've done, and is that an extra frustration with everything that's gone on?  
LAURA ROBSON: Well, I've spoken -- I work with a sports psychologist, and it's more you can never recreate that feeling of being 2-All, deuce, having a break point.  Until you're in that moment, you don't know how you're going to do it and how your brain will work.   
Really it only gets better playing more matches and putting yourself in that situation and coming out on top of it.   
So, yeah, it's something that has definitely been a weakness of mine in the last couple matches that I've played.  It's something that will improve as I go along.   
 Q.  Are you someone who kind of very much looks forward to getting off the clay and onto the grass?  What is your exact program going to be when you're on the grass?  
LAURA ROBSON: I obviously enjoy grass, but the first couple of practices on it are never fun for anyone.  It's a big change going from clay to the NTC courts or the Wimbledon courts, wherever you're hitting.   
Yeah, it's tough on the legs, tough on the butt, and it's a lot of work, but I'm excited.  I think I'm going to play the 50k next week in Eastbourne, and then -- what order is it in these days?  Nottingham, Birmingham, Eastbourne, and so on.   
 Q.  Looking further ahead, what do you think would be the ITF schedule after the grass?  Which area are you looking at?  
LAURA ROBSON: I haven't -- I put some thought into it.  My coach has some ideas as well.  Really depends what my ranking is at the end of the grass season.  It depends what tournaments I am going to get into, main draw or quallies.  Nothing is set in stone just yet.  All ideas for the minute.   
 Q.  Talking about the grass court tournaments, LTA wildcards, any indication of what's upcoming?  
LAURA ROBSON: Nottingham was already announced, Birmingham is protected tournament, and 50k, either quallies or main.  I don't know yet.  Yeah, kind of putting pressure on them right now by saying it out loud.   
Yeah, we'll see whether it's main draws or quallies.  It's most important to just get matches.   
Eastbourne and Wimbledon are TBA.   
 Q.  You just talked about your mental preparation.  Do you feel you're physically now back in the shape you want to be?  Have you had enough time on the clay circuit to feel really strong and ready for grass?  
LAURA ROBSON: Yeah.  Clay is always more physical than the grass tournaments, so I haven't had any physical issues over the last few weeks.  I can always get better and stronger, fitter, so that's always the mentality going forward.   
Yeah, I don't feel like it's a serious weakness or that -- I'm never going to be Rafa out there.   
 Q.  Do you set ranking goals for where you want to be at certain points of the season, or is that not helpful?  
LAURA ROBSON: I think it's always good to have in the back of your mind because you need something to push forward to and to look forward to as well.  So I don't want to be ranked 300 for very much longer.   
Yeah, having top 100 as a goal, then see where I go after that.  It's always in the back of my mind.   
 Q.  These matches, even if you don't necessarily win - obviously if you do it's better - do they help to you gain motivation for training and practice and all the sort of things you have to do as a tennis player?  
LAURA ROBSON: Well, I mean, I like playing tournaments, so it's quite nice over the last few weeks and the next few.  It's a very quick turnaround.  I've had enough training weeks over the last two years to last a lifetime, I think.   
Yeah, just getting match practice is most important for me.  Whether that is in practice or over the next few days on the grass before tournaments, then anything is good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT