AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 20, 2012
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. MAKAROVA/L. Robson
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Must be disappointing for you. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Is that a question?   (Smiling.)

Q.   Okay.   What are your thoughts on the match? 
LAURA ROBSON:   I thought I played pretty well.   You know, I thought she played extremely well.   She's definitely suited to the grass courts. 
She served really high‑percentage first serves   towards the end of both sets, so it was really tough for me to get into her service games.   But in general, you know, I thought I competed well, and there are still lots of things that can be improved, but in terms of where I was a few months ago, I think it's a big improvement already.

Q.   Do you think you're closing the gap on these people now?
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, yeah.   You know, I've always thought that I could beat these girls, but, you know, you definitely have to bring my A game.   I have to be really mentally ready for it. 
Today, you know, I thought everything was good.   Just a few sloppy points here and there where she took advantage, you know.   When she broke at the end of the second set, I just missed a few first serves and she took advantage of that.

Q.   If you think back a couple of years, and you had expectations then, do you think you've achieved those expectations or not reached them or exceeded them?
LAURA ROBSON:   I can't even remember what my expectations were a few years ago.   All I have been trying to do for the last few months is work on movement, work on my serve.     I think both things are improving. 
You know, I'm not really saying, Oh, I want to be top 50 by the end of the year, whatever.   I'm just trying to stay injury‑free for the moment and work as hard as I can.

Q.   This is a sport where you have to try and be patient and take your time with things.   Are you a patient person, or are you wanting to get so ahead quickly and as a result maybe all those results that you might have wanted or people expect of you are not necessarily coming as frequently or as fast as you'd like?
LAURA ROBSON:   I think I'm a really patient person.   I take after my dad in that regard. 
But, you know, you're talking about everyone else's expectations.   I said yesterday that I'm really not focused on any of that.   You know, I'm just trying to do my own thing.   I'm happy with how things are going at the moment.

Q.   Going into Wimbledon next week, looks like you'll be in top 100.   It's disappointing today to lose, obviously, but it must be quite nice for you to know you've achieved that goal. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, I'm feeling really confident in my game at the moment, so going into Wimbledon, I'm going to be really pumped for my match there obviously.
But I've still got quarters in doubles here with Heather here tomorrow.

Q.   It's a solid five matches that you had here.   What's the biggest positive takeaway that you have?
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, last year I had like maybe four matches in total before Wimbledon, so I've already‑‑ you know, I have had double that at least, I think.   So I'm really happy with how‑‑ you know, I started off in Nottingham, and I didn't play as well as I would have liked, but then every week I'm getting better and better. 
So I'm really looking forward to Wimbledon.   But for me, you know, it's just been good to play a few tournaments in a row and, you know, I'm injury‑free for the moment.   That's the biggest positive for me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT