AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2012
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. ROBSON/M. Sanchez
  3‑6, 6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You must be well pleased with that?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah.   I was really happy with how I played in the second and third set.   You know, I didn't necessarily play bad on the first set.   It's just that I wasn't patient enough in the rally, and I let her dictate points.   
She was coming to the net a lot, and she's got a really solid volley.   I knew that I had to just keep her at the back of the court and then find a way to win the point from there, and that's what I did really well.   
   
 Q.   She's a an old campaigner.   To beat someone like that on the grass court is a good feather in the cap?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah.   Yeah, she's a really experienced player, and that's why I'm really happy to have got the win.   
I've lost to her before in Cincinnati last year.   Quite easily, actually.   So I'm just really pleased with how I returned and, you know, how I competed.  
   
 Q.   What have you been doing on your serve?   It seemed to be particularly well today.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, hopefully it should be like that all the time.   It's just sometimes it doesn't work that well.   (Smiling.)  
But I have worked on it a lot and just improving my first‑serve percentage.   You know, big points don't ‑‑I don't have to go for such a big serve.   I'm comfortable enough in how my serve is.   I can just sort of place it in, and it still will have lots of spin and power on it.  
So I think that's been a big difference, and I feel really comfortable in my second serve, as well.   I didn't hit very many double faults at all.  
   
 Q.   Did momentum coming through qualifying really help?  
LAURA ROBSON:   Oh, yeah, it's always good to qualify.   You know, after yesterday's win I was feeling pretty confident in my game.  
I have really had a fair few matches on grass this season, so I think I have that advantage over some of the other players.   
   
 Q.   Have you seen some of the other results today?   There's quite a few upsets.   
LAURA ROBSON:   I saw just before I went on that Kvitova lost, which I was pretty surprised because I was playing the winner of that match, so I was keeping an eye on it a little bit.  
Then when I was playing I heard that Radwanska lost, and, you know, I tried not to get all, "Aah."   Yeah, surprising.   There's lots of girls that are playing well at the moment.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel?   Do you get a special buzz as Wimbledon gets nearer?   Do you kind of get swept up in it, excited with it?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I don't get swept up necessarily.   You know, I just try to focus on doing my own thing and I treat it like any other tournament.   The added advantage is that I can go home in the evening.  
Yeah, you know, I moved house, so I can't walk home, but I'm like five minutes away, so it's still good.  
   
 Q.   Is it difficult perhaps to really get totally into the tournament when you can't go home?   Usually when you're at a tournament you're at a hotel and totally immersed in the tournament.   
LAURA ROBSON:   It's more relaxing going home in the evening, I think.   I completely switch off.   I can cook.   I like cooking, so that helps.   I can see my dogs, so I like it.   
You know, I've always done fairly decent at Wimbledon, I think.   Seems to be working.   
   
 Q.   Do you cook for your dogs?  
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   No, they have a very dry dog food, which I will not be tasting.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   You're going to be inside the top 100.   
LAURA ROBSON:   Am I?   
   
 Q.   Well, according to your website, you are.   
LAURA ROBSON:   I don't have a website.   
   
 Q.   No?   
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   I have a Twitter.   That's it.   So if I am, that's news to me.   That's really good news.   But I've got another match tomorrow that I need to focus on.   
   
 Q.   Where would you, in your own rankings of matches and victories, where would you place today?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I don't really have a ranking.   I mean, it's a big win, but, you know, I know that I'm capable of wins like that, and I feel like I can play even better.   
But I'm just really happy with how I competed today after the first set, because while my coach came on after the first set, we were sort of discussing a little bit, you know, What can I change?   Because I didn't really feel like I was doing that many things wrong.   It was just one or two things that we needed to change.   That's what I did.   
   
 Q.   Much was made of your Wimbledon campaign, the match with Sharapova last year.   How much of a different player do you feel you are 12 months on and the progress you've made?  
LAURA ROBSON:   I think a lot more pace on my serve, which helps a lot on grass.   You know, I feel like I'm moving better, and I feel like I'm more consistent in the rally.   
You know, as I said today, I was happy to stay in the rally and just, you know, play deep, aggressive shots from the back until I had an opportunity.   I think 12 months ago I probably would have just tried to hit a winner off the return.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT