WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2010
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. ROBSON/K. Hardebeck
  6-0, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone. Laura Robson for you.   
  
  Q. First set was very straightforward. Second one was a bit of a test, wasn't it?  
 LAURA ROBSON: Yeah. I think it's always hard to keep up that kind of level that I was playing in the first set. I think I only lost eight points. It was always going to be tougher in the second set. I think she loosened up, made a lot more balls.   
 You know, she played much better tennis. So it was good to get through that.   
  
  Q. You must be quite pleased with the way your campaign started. There's a little bit more pressure on you as somebody who has won the competition before.   
 LAURA ROBSON: Uhm, you know, not necessarily, because I didn't win it last year. Uhm, I'm not one of the high seeds in the juniors, so I'm just trying to focus match by match really.   
 I think I'm going to have to play a lot better tomorrow because it's going to be a really tough match.   
  
  Q. Were you conscious of the fact of the fans who saw you win expect you to win rather than hope you might win? Is it a different sort of feeling out there?   
 LAURA ROBSON: Not really, no.   
  
  Q. There's normally smiling from you on court. There wasn't so much of that there today. Something troubling you?  
 LAURA ROBSON: I didn't realize I smiled that much. I'm quiet anyway.   
 Uhm, no, you know, at the moment I'm just really focused on not saying 'uhm'. I read something on the Wimbledon website. The person that types it all in, they said that I start every sentence with 'uhm.' So right now I'm just trying not to do that.   
  
  Q. It's been a big day today for the boys and the girls. Lots of positive results. Hopefully some more to come. Is that important after what happened last week in the senior draws?   
 LAURA ROBSON: Yeah. Eleanor Dean, she did really well; she won today. There's a few boys doing well. Marsalek especially. He won last week without dropping a set. So, uhm, I think there's a lot of positives from today.   
  
  Q. Do you feel you're ready to take the next step on to the senior tour now and go take that one step forward?   
 LAURA ROBSON: Yeah. It is different playing juniors, but, uhm, it's good to get the matches this week.   
 Hopefully I'll keep winning. Then I can try and play more and more seniors.   
  
  Q. Do you get to watch a lot of tennis while you're here at Wimbledon? Is there a particular shot from another player you'd like to put into your own game?  
 LAURA ROBSON: I do watch a lot of tennis. Getting ready in the changing rooms, the TV is always on. Uhm, as I was warming down today I was watching Pironkova and Zvonareva, who have done really well. I always like watching. Uhm, there should be some good tennis finals, I think.   
 There's not necessarily one shot I'd like to have, apart from maybe Isner's serve, yeah (smiling).   
  
  Q. Many people in Britain would like to see you become the next ladies champion. I'm sure you would like that to happen as well. There's three very famous players: Angela Mortimer, Ann Jones and Virginia Wade. How much have they spoken to you about their finals?   
 LAURA ROBSON: I've spoken to Ann before and Virginia before. I haven't really spoken to them about their Wimbledon finals, but they've done extremely well in the past. You know, hopefully they'll be really supportive of me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT