AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 30, 2010
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. PLISKOVA/L. Robson
  6-1, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How are you feeling after that?  
 LAURA ROBSON: Uhm, tired. Yeah, I still haven't finished my anti-doping yet. So just a bit exhausted with it, everything.   
  
  Q. Is that really disappointing? Such a great comeback.   
 LAURA ROBSON: I was a bit disappointed with the way I played in the first set anyway. And then second set, you know, she served really well the whole match. I was just looking for a chance to break her. I finally got one. In the tiebreak I let myself down a bit.   
 But, you know, I've had a really good month in Australia, so I can go home pretty happy.   
  
  Q. She's a couple years older than you. Is there still quite a difference at that level?   
 LAURA ROBSON: Uhm, well, I mean, she's definitely good. But I don't think she's that much better than me, so...   
  
  Q. Your strength is your serve. Was that the part that let you down?  
 LAURA ROBSON: I wouldn't say it let me down. It's just, I mean, I didn't really hit any double-faults until the tiebreak. So at that point I probably just lost focus for a minute.   
  
  Q. You said last year when you got out on that court for a final, it was a bit of a weird feeling. What was your feeling this year?  
 LAURA ROBSON: I mean, I think a lot more people turned up this year than last year.   
 This year, I just tried to get myself into the match in the second set, then people started getting more supportive in the crowd. So it was a better feeling this year.   
  
  Q. Were you a bit tight at the beginning, nervous?  
 LAURA ROBSON: I wasn't really nervous. I was just, like, not quick off the mark going into it. So obviously she took advantage of that.   
  
  Q. There were times in the first set when you seemed to be getting upset with yourself. In the second set that didn't happen very much. I think you referenced that last year in the final. You felt that was an area you needed to improve on.   
 LAURA ROBSON: I mean, in the first set, I didn't play well, so then I started getting a bit annoyed with that. But then, you know, first set is over, so then you try to make a new start basically.   
 I wasn't gonna be able to do that if I kept the mindset I did in the first set.   
  
  Q. Does it sometimes help to get a bit angry with yourself?   
 LAURA ROBSON: Who knows. I don't mind it. But it's probably not ideal (smiling).   
  
  Q. When you do get angry with yourself, are you able to shake it off quite quickly?  
 LAURA ROBSON: Generally, yeah. I used to get a lot more angry, but I have improved on that. I think once you start a new set, though, then you have a different attitude.   
  
  Q. When you reflect on your stay here, you'll take home a lot more good memories than the defeat in this final here. It's been a fabulous month for you, hasn't it?  
 LAURA ROBSON: Yeah, starting with Perth, getting to the final there, then quarters of doubles, then getting to the final here. I've played a lot of matches. So I think now it's just good to go home.   
  
  Q. What are your plans over the next few weeks?  
 LAURA ROBSON: My schedule hasn't really been decided. So we'll look at that once we get back to London.   
  
  Q. But definitely juniors at the French and Wimbledon and US Open this year?  
 LAURA ROBSON: I'd say so, yeah.   
  
  Q. Will you stay around for the match tomorrow?  
 LAURA ROBSON: No. I'm actually leaving tonight. I had no idea I was leaving until my dad told me to pack last night. Really didn't give me any heads up (laughter).   
 Yeah, so unfortunately I won't be able to watch it. I've asked my mum to record it, though.   
  
  Q. Send him a little message before you leave?  
 LAURA ROBSON: No. Depends if I'm in a good mood or not.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT