WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2015
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. RODINA/L. Robson
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   How close do you actually feel you are to being on top of your game at the moment?
LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, well, compared to the match I played last week, it was infinitely better.   There were so many positives from today that I can go back and work on. 
You know, I was the one hitting winners, but I was the one hitting unforced errors, as well. 
Just in terms of finishing points better, moving better, definitely serving better, it's all things to work on and things to take into the next few much smaller tournaments.

Q.   Is the danger a little bit now to push too hard, to go too quickly getting back to where you should be?
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   You know, I've been very patient for the last year and a half, so there's no reason to rush it now.   Uhm, I've got a doctor and a physio who definitely won't let me do that anyway. 
Uhm, so, yeah, we're going to be patient.   We're going to train for another couple of weeks and then play some smaller tournaments and more bigger, like, WTAs towards the end of the year. 

Q.   The difficulties you've overcome over the last 18 months, has that changed you as a person at all?
LAURA ROBSON:   I don't know about totally changed my personality. 
In a way it's been good.   I've been able to see my family a lot more.   I've been able to see my friends.   I've kind of had a normal life for the last year. 
Yeah, in that way it's been good.   But I've definitely missed being on tour. 

Q.   Is it better or worse to be coming back to this tournament rather than being able to ease your way in?
LAURA ROBSON:   In my pretournament presser, I said the disappointment of not playing here two years in a row kind of outweighed starting a smaller tournament. 
It was a no‑brainer in my mind.   If this unfortunately happens again, I will kind of reconsider. 

Q.   Will you use your protected ranking to play at the US Open?
LAURA ROBSON:   That is currently the plan, but that's still a long way off.   We'll see where I'm at at the time.

Q.   What tournaments will you be playing in between then?
LAURA ROBSON:   25s, 50s.   There's a bunch of challengers in the States and in Canada that I've been lucky enough to be given wild cards for.   I'm going to be using all of those and start using my protected a bit later in the year. 

Q.   After having been away from the tour and the locker room for so long, how did it feel being back?   Did it feel like things have moved on?   Did the tour, the people, feel different?
LAURA ROBSON:   There's definitely players that I didn't recognize, especially when I was training at the National Centre last week and I went out to watch the qualifying.   There was a bunch of people who made me feel real old.   There were '97s and '98s.   I don't know how that makes you feel, but I feel ancient (smiling). 
It's been a nice thing.   Everybody I was friendly with beforehand, there's been some good chats in the locker room, a couple dinners.   Nice to catch up with everyone. 

Q.   There are no Greek players in the draw.   You're as close as we have with having your mum living there.   What does your mom think of the whole Greek situation?
LAURA ROBSON:   I don't know that my mum is totally interested.   I mean, yeah, I don't even know how to answer that, to be honest.   They live there, but they're definitely not Greek. 

Q.   How frustrating was it out there?   Was that outweighed by the excitement and the relief of being back?
LAURA ROBSON:   It was extremely exciting.   I was extremely nervous before I went on.   Every time I felt like I was getting ahead in the game or I had a breakpoint, it was like the last 17 months of nerves just coming out and saying, Hi. 
Yeah, it was a lot to take in.   But it was so much better than last week.   Last week on court, I was almost hyperventilating.   This was infinitely better and it will continue to improve. 

Q.   You said if you found yourself in this position again, you might reconsider doing this.   Do you regret it?   I think everybody understands obviously you've come into the tournament not where you'd want to be in terms of form or preparation.   No one is going to criticize you for what you've done.   It seems a bit of a funny way to view it.   I wondered how you would view it overall when you look back on it?
LAURA ROBSON:   I mean, it's hard to say what you'd do in a different situation.   But this is my favorite tournament of the year.   It's my home tournament.   I couldn't imagine not playing it, if that makes sense, even though I would have liked to have played more matches. 
But I think a lot of people feel the same way.   It's different when it's this tournament.   You just treat it differently to any other tournament.

Q.   Is the wrist now completely healed?   Are you protecting it at all now on court?
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, no pain whatsoever.   Totally fine.   No physical problems.

Q.   Nothing playing in your mind as you're playing the shots?
LAURA ROBSON:   No. 

Q.   Anything at Eastbourne and here today made you think that you can't regain a place in the worlds top 50 and perhaps go much higher?
LAURA ROBSON:   No, yeah, I'm pretty confident that I have the ability to get back, uhm, to where I was, if not higher.   Uhm, you know, it's going to be a long process to get there, but I'm very excited that I have another chance to do it. 

Q.   You are still young enough to do it, aren't you?
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah.   Grand old age of 21.   I've got a bit of time ahead of me.   Yeah, definitely some more good years ahead. 

Q.   Could you explain the issues behind your serving.   The throwing, is that something that predated the injury?
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah (laughter).   I don't know if you ever watched my matches, but my serve has never been totally okay. 
So, yeah, it's something that last week was worse, so today was better.   But, yeah, we'll just continue to work on it.   It's more an indecisive decision process when I'm throwing it up more than anything.   I just change my mind quite a lot on where I'm going to go.   That results in my ball toss going where it shouldn't. 
I honestly feel bad for my opponents most of the time because I end up having to catch it so much.   I'm sure it annoys them.   I'm sure it annoys me more than them.

Q.   Have you thought about what it's going to be playing the low‑level ITFs?   You've gone from Wimbledon to 10, 15 K's. 
LAURA ROBSON:   It's going to be different.   I know what I'm going into.   I'm going to play one that I played previously.   It's an amazing challenger.   That motivated me more to accept that wild card. 
Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.   When I feel like I'm ready to come back into this level, then that's what I'll do. 

Q.   Looking forward to the doubles?
LAURA ROBSON:   I think Madison is going on pretty soon.   She has an absolute cannon of a serve.   We were joking she's going to serve, I'm going to cross, that's going to be it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT