AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 31, 2009
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. PERVAK/L. Robson
  6-3, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Are you having fun?
 LAURA ROBSON: Yeah. 

 Q. A little bit of a disappointment, wasn't it?
 LAURA ROBSON: I think generally she won because she played more consistent than me. So it's definitely disappointing to lose, but I thought I played as well as I could have.

 Q. She's ranked 150 or something in the women's game. Do you think that was a big difference in how experienced she was as well? 
 LAURA ROBSON: Well, I've played some senior matches as well. Maybe experience wasn't the key factor, but definitely her consistency was. 

 Q. What was it like playing on Rod Laver for you?
 LAURA ROBSON: Pretty good. There wasn't as much people in there as Court 1, but it was still really nice. And I finally got my towels. I nicked two.

 Q. Before you played Wimbledon's final you said you were very nervous and you hadn't sleep very well. How did you sleep last evening, and how were you when you stepped on the court? 
 LAURA ROBSON: I slept fine last night, like a baby. I stayed up for a bit to watch the Nadal/Verdasco match because that was unbelievable. I'm actually wearing Verdasco's jumper at the moment.

 Q. Did you make it through the end?
 LAURA ROBSON: No, no. That would have been a bit too late for me. It was an unbelievable match.

 Q. Dare we ask how you got Verdascos's jumper?
 LAURA ROBSON: Because I just spent an obscene amount of time in the Anti-doping room. It's air conditioned in there and I didn't have a jumper. I went in the cafe and asked him if he had a jumper and he gave me this one.

 Q. Did you introduce yourself first?
 LAURA ROBSON: No, I knew him from before that because he was in Amsterdam the same time as me.

 Q. Are you going to keep it?
 LAURA ROBSON: I think it's not my size.

 Q. Did they follow the progress of the match in the family household in in the middle of the night? 
 LAURA ROBSON: I don't know actually. I haven't really spoken to anyone. I've just literally gone from the anti-doping here. 

 Q. Have you texted mum at all?
 LAURA ROBSON: I texted her straight after the match, but I don't know if she replied or not.

 Q. What's next?
 LAURA ROBSON: Just going home, training for a bit, and then I don't really know the rest of my schedule.

 Q. She was quite clever out there, wasn't she? She used a few tricks and stalled you a little bit. She took her time and went to the towel. Was that a lesson to learn?
 LAURA ROBSON: Kind of everyone does that now, so it wasn't a big deal.

 Q. Didn't unsettle you?
 LAURA ROBSON: No.

 Q. Given the heat that you've had the last couple weeks, where would you put reaching the final here on your list of achievements? Obviously you lost so it's not as great as winning Wimbledon, but is it almost as good an achievement because of the conditions?
 LAURA ROBSON: Yeah, definitely very close to the same, because it was just really good to like overcome all the weather this week. So it's definitely a really big achievement for me.

 Q. You said your energy was a bit low in the semifinals. Did you feel that today, or... 
 LAURA ROBSON: Not as much. I think I upped my dosage of jelly snakes.

 Q. The question of people back home that don't follow tennis is, do you have expectations that you will be granted a wildcard into Wimbledon's main draw this year? Is that something that you're really putting your hopes on this summer? 
 LAURA ROBSON: Well, it's up to them. I've got no say in it, really. I've got the wildcard for quallies, but it's their decision whether they want to give me a main draw one.

 Q. But you would...
 LAURA ROBSON: I would like one, yeah.

 Q. You had some choice words in the first set. Is there perhaps something to be learned about how to deal with a couple points that don't necessarily go your way?
 LAURA ROBSON: Yeah. I'll try to be a bit quieter next time. 

 Q. What do you think you've learned?
 LAURA ROBSON: Well, I've learned dealing with the extreme conditions definitely. Also, letting go a bit more if I don't do so well at the start of second set. Because maybe three of my matches this week I didn't get the early break in the second set, and then it started to affect me more in my first match. 
 So just dealing with that. 

 Q. Because of the age range in juniors, she's almost three years older than you, and she looks it. She is physically more developed. She seemed to hit heavy shots. Is that something that's a drawback, a handicap today that she is that much more experienced? 
 LAURA ROBSON: Well, she was definitely hitting it with a bit more spin than me. Whether she was really that much stronger than me I really don't know. 
 But I didn't really have any problem returning her shots. Just getting them in was the big deal. 

 Q. Britain used to have female tennis players. Do you feel that you could be part of a revival? 
 LAURA ROBSON: Well, it's not really a revival, because Anne is already top 50. I don't like that question. 

 Q. You've been down here for almost a month and been in the sunshine and the heat. You know you're going home to snow and sleet and the cold of winter. How does that grab you after this?
 LAURA ROBSON: I'm going home on Monday, so I get one more day here. Then, also, I'm going to try to get tickets to watch the final tomorrow. So I'm just going to enjoy the rest of my time here and go home with all my jumpers. 

 Q. And other people's. 
 LAURA ROBSON: I don't know if I can keep this one. It would be a good one to have in the cupboard back home.

 Q. What do you think will be the highlights when you look back on this week?
 LAURA ROBSON: Playing on Rod Laver. 

 Q. What will have been the most fun moment of the week? 
 LAURA ROBSON: Most fun? I don't know. No, I don't know that one. But, uhm... 

 Q. Does your success here make you that much more eager to get on the senior tour, to get out there and get started, or are you happy biding your time at the moment?
 LAURA ROBSON: Well, I'm more than happy to keep playing juniors for a while. But, also, it'll be good to go into seniors as well. So I'm not really bothered. 

 Q. Will you get your shopping trip, or does that go by the bye now? 
 LAURA ROBSON: Oh, no, definitely still on. Well, the only thing I was actually a bit upset about today is I didn't get to challenge anything. That was really annoying. She challenged twice, and then I didn't get any. That was a bit upsetting. 

 Q. Do you have a bit of a soft spot for Australia being born here and having the success you've had?
 LAURA ROBSON: I think I get asked that question every time I'm in here. It's a really beautiful country. It's nice that I have family here as well, but definitely England is my home.

 Q. What family were here for the final? Just your sister?
 LAURA ROBSON: My sister and also my auntie and uncle flew over from western Australia two days ago.

 Q. Their names, please? 
 LAURA ROBSON: Debbie and Larry Dwyer.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT