AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2014
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. FLIPKENS/L. Robson
  6‑3, 6‑0
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
Q.   How did you do in practice versus playing an actual match?
  LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, definitely.   Practice is a lot different to playing a proper match in slams.   So, you know, I would have loved to have had some more points beforehand, but that's what happens sometimes.
Q.   How was the wrist?
  LAURA ROBSON:   I prefer not to talk about my wrist because then it's just going to become this massive excuse and whatnot. 
  Really she just played better than me.
Q.   Did you feel that you were getting back into it 3, 4, deuce, that you were getting back on track at that point?
  LAURA ROBSON:   Well, it took me a couple of games to actually win a point so it couldn't really have gotten any worse.
  But, you know, it was up and down the whole time, and I don't think I ever really got into a rhythm at all.   I wasn't really able to deal with her slice that well. 
  So, yeah, I don't know.   It just didn't go well.
Q.   What were you expecting today from yourself?
  LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I definitely expected to play better, but, you know, it happens. 
  And I didn't really have any expectations going in because I didn't know what it was going to be like out there. 
  But, you know, the support was great.   It's amazing how many people turned up.   I'm just sorry I didn't play better for them.
Q.   What will you do now, Laura?
  LAURA ROBSON:   Go home? 
  Yeah, I'm not quite sure yet what I'm doing in the next couple of days, but, yes, I will be home after that.
Q.   I know you had some viral problems I think when you were in Asia as well, didn't you?   Best results of your career you had a kind of sustained period when you were on the court, weren't you?   So are you looking to get back to that?
  LAURA ROBSON:   Well, yeah.   That's the same with any player.   You have small niggles all the time, but last year, you know, over the grass season and the clay season where I was playing pretty well, I was completely healthy. 
  So I'd love to get back to that, you know, and that's what I'm going to work towards.
Q.   When you say go home, do you mean back to London to play in Europe probably in the next sort of month?
  LAURA ROBSON:   Definitely London.   I don't know what other home I have.
Q.   Well, I mean, as opposed to Florida to go and train or something.   Is it Paris or something that you'll next... 
  LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I'm entered in Paris so I will go to London.
Q.   I'd like to ask about Fed Cup.   What part will that play in your year?   How big is that for you?
  LAURA ROBSON:   I'm really looking forward to Fed Cup.   You know, I'm happy to be selected again.   I think as a team, we seem to work pretty well.   It's going to be a bit different this year without Anne and Bally. 
  I know Heather is looking forward to it, too.   We will see what we can do.
Q.   Do you feel extra responsibility on your shoulders without Anne and Bally around?
  LAURA ROBSON:   No, I mean, I played singles last year already.   That's really not an issue.   I love playing for Great Britain, and I think we'll get really fired up in a team environment.
  Yeah, looking forward to it.
Q.   Is it good to have a team event to look forward to in that sort of environment where you're all together?
  LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, we always do ‑ things in the evening.   We spend a lot of time together over that week.   The last two years we have made the playoff and just haven't been able to get into the World Group.   Hopefully this year we can change it.
Q.   Were you at all tempted to wake up at 5:00 a.m. to watch Cam?
  LAURA ROBSON:   No, I'm not really a morning riser, anyway.   I obviously wanted them to win, and I saw the, I'd say the last quarter, when I was doing physio this morning.
  It wasn't a good start to the day.   No. 
Q.   When you have a match like this, can you just shake it off or does it make you think, I have got to go work harder and do something different, make changes?
  LAURA ROBSON:   Well, definitely it motivates you to do better and be as fit as possible, and that's what I'll do in the next couple of weeks.   You know, whether that's going to be in Florida or London, I'm not sure yet.   Depends on my tournament schedule.
  But, yeah, definitely.   It's a tough one today, but everyone has those kind of days, and you have to just come back from them stronger.
Q.   Will Jessie come to London with you?
  LAURA ROBSON:   I'm not sure yet.   He may do, and I'm not sure about McEnroe yet either.   We haven't discussed anything yet. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT