U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2013
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/L. Robson
      6‑2, 7‑5 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tough out there today, baking hot, and she was really on her game right from the start, wasn't she?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Did you say baking hot?   
   
 Q.   Baking hot.   
    LAURA ROBSON:   Really?   
   
 Q.   Well, it was where I was sitting.   
    LAURA ROBSON:   I thought it was quite cool down on court.  
    I have been in Florida, though, so different level of heat.   Um, yeah, I thought she played really well.   She didn't give me too many chances in the rally, so I never felt I got a rhythm going with my groundies.   
    It's always tough.   Yeah, I thought she played a really good match.  
   
 Q.   Do you think there were elements of surprise that you had last year against her that now she knew what to expect?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   No, I don't think so.   I'm pretty sure she had seen me play last year before our match.   But, yeah, I thought, you know, she served very well today and I thought she was returning really deep.  
    You know, there wasn't a lot I could do in some points.  
   
 Q.   You didn't start great, Laura.   Was that just not being able to find your rhythm?   Was it nerves?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   It was quite windy when we started the match, and so then on one side you would kind of have to play more spin, and, yeah, I wasn't quite doing that very well.   
   
 Q.   Does it seem odd playing in that huge stadium when there isn't that many people there at the start of the day and it was quiet?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Well, no.   I wasn't expecting it to be full.   I have played on there a couple times, so I'm used to it when it's empty as well.   
    I thought by the end of the match it was quite loud.  
   
 Q.   How far away do you think you are from sort of making a jump into the elite level?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Um, you know, not too far.   I think I'm going in the right direction.   I feel like I'm improving, you know, and working on a more all‑around game, I would say.   
    You know, it's going to take a lot of hard work, but I'm willing to do that.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to have a bit of a rest because of the wrist, or are you going to be able to carry on training?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Um, I would say a rest just so it settles down completely, and I will see my doctor when I get back.   I have to get my wisdom teeth taken out, as well.  
   
 Q.   That will be fun.   
    LAURA ROBSON:   Well, all the other girls in the locker room are telling me their horror stories.   Oh, yeah I pulled my gauze out and it was just blood.   So that's not too nice.  
   
 Q.   Are you still expecting to get to Guangzhou?   Is that the next tournament?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   When is that?   Yeah, we'll see.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the week as a whole?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Not too bad.   You know, I'm disappointed about today, for sure, and I thought I could have played a lot better.   But, um, you know, I always knew it was going to be a tough match.  
    All in all, I guess it was an average week.  
   
 Q.   You must be happy with your overall game than you were 12 months around, would you say?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I think so, and I feel I'm a more confident player, as well.   In my first two rounds I thought I played really well and I closed out the matches really well, which is something that, you know, has improved a lot over the last 12 months.  
    Yeah, so when I get home I will do quite a bit more training and get ready for Asia.  
   
 Q.   This year, Laura, you had two third rounds and a fourth round at a slam and ranking around 30, 32.   Has that roughly been in line with your expectations?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Um, I would say I set my expectations quite high, so for me it's still quite disappointing.  
    I would love to be more consistent at the smaller tournaments.   So that's, you know, what the plan is for Asia.  
    But, you know, I think I have a lot to work on, and I think I can improve a lot more.   Hopefully in the next few months I won't still be around 30.  
   
 Q.   She's been coached by a pretty well‑known coach.   Is that the type of thing that stays in your mind or any player's mind when you're out there?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   No, I don't think so.   You know, I'm not really focused on what she's doing with her coach.   I was just trying to get the ball in, basically.  
    I think, yeah, he's a really good coach and he's done a really great job with her so far.  
   
 Q.   What do you think is the key to finding that consistency at the smaller events?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Um, who knows?   I haven't found it yet (smiling).   
    I think it's just, you know, being really focused in every point, you know, from the first round.   You know, I'd love to do well in Guangzhou and all of those and see where I finish the year out.   
   
 Q.   Do you know how long your teeth will keep you out for?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   I have no idea.   Jamie Hampton was trying to scare me.   She was like, Oh, I couldn't do anything for three weeks.  
    I don't really listen to her, so...   
    Yeah, hopefully just a couple of days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT