U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2013
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. ROBSON/C. Garcia
      6‑4, 7‑6 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How are you with that one?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I'm very happy.   I thought I played fairly well.   You know, I didn't start off on her service games too well.   I don't think I won a point until the third time around.   
    It was good to just stick with her, and then just took my chances when I had them.   
   
 Q.   Tell us about the trainer at the end of the first set.   
    LAURA ROBSON:   I just felt like I needed some more tape on my wrist.   And, yeah, that's all we did.   
   
 Q.   Did you take any painkillers?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, just precautionary.   
   
 Q.   I know you don't want to bang on about it, but is it much of a factor?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, I think I'm playing my forehand well enough for it not to be.   
   
 Q.   You served very well.   
    LAURA ROBSON:   I think so, too.   
    Yeah, I was really happy with my serve, especially my second serve.   She made a lot of mistakes off that, so I was just trying to, you know, spin it as much as possible.   
    It definitely went well.   
   
 Q.   Clearly memories from last year now against Li Na.   What do you specifically remember about that match?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, I remember being so nervous when I walked on court.   But, yeah, you know, just fighting through that and just, you know, sticking with her.   
    I think she made a lot of mistakes in the first set, which helped quite a lot.   Hopefully she'll do that again.   
    And, yeah, I'm not sure, you know, when we'll be playing or if we'll be on the same court, so should be a good match.   
   
 Q.   Where does that rank in the wins that you've had, the one over Li Na last year?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   At the time it was the biggest.   I would say probably Radwanska right now.   I don't know.   I don't really rank them.   
   
 Q.   Now you share the same agent.   Do you have more to do with Li Na or is it just purely business?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   No.   I say hi to her in the locker room, just like I always have, but nothing else.   
   
 Q.   There's some matches where you do quite a bit of gesturing and chuntering.   Felt like tonight you were poker faced.   
    LAURA ROBSON:   What?   
   
 Q.   Chuntering.   
    LAURA ROBSON:   Not many people use that word.   
   
 Q.   Is that something you're working open?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   I wasn't chuntering in my first round either, so I think it's just something that I've grown out of a bit.   Kind of depends on how I'm playing.   
    Today I thought I was playing well and I didn't do it.   
   
 Q.   What kind of things has working with Miles brought you?   You obviously had a few physical issues.   Do you feel you've reaped any dividends from that partnership?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, for sure.   I think my volleys have improved a lot.   I just feel a lot more able to vary my game up during matches.   
    You know, I hit quite a few nice slices today; defending a bit better, as well.   I think I can still improve a lot, but things are going in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   How pleased are you with the way you coped with being seeded in a Grand Slam for the first time?   
    LAURA ROBSON:   Uhm, well, yeah, I thought, you know, starting from Wimbledon, I felt like I was winning the matches where I was supposed to win them, especially my second, third rounds there.   That's what I've done here so far.   
    But, uhm, yeah, definitely a big match in the third round against Li Na.   It's going to be a tough one.   
   
 Q.   What do you feel are the biggest improvements you've made over the past 12 months?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   That's a tough question.   
    I think just my willingness, you know, to stick with it even when I'm playing a bit pants.   You know, just wait for them to kind of make a few errors when I need to.   
   
 Q.   You played a lot of big matches on big courts at the slams.   Do the nerves get easier to deal with at this point, or are you just as nervous now as you were back when you played Sharapova at Wimbledon, Li Na last year, Clijsters last year?  
    LAURA ROBSON:   I think it does get a little bit easier, but not a lot.   And, uhm, what I've liked so far here is I've gone onto the court pretty confident and stayed that way throughout the match.   
    I did lose my serve at the end of the second today, but I don't think it was due to nerves or anything like that.   I just played a bad game.   So, you know, hopefully I'll take that onto the court in the next round.   
    But, uhm, yeah, I think everyone always gets a bit nervous.   
   
 Q.   Will there be a different kind of expectation because you're going in as a fellow seed whereas last year you were 89 and she was 8.   
    LAURA ROBSON:   Was I that low?   
    No, I don't think so.   You know, she's still the higher‑ranked player.   I'm going to go out there like I approach every other match and, you know, just try my best on court and try and played my own game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT