U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2013
Laura Robson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. ROBSON/L. Dominguez
  7‑5, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Topsy‑turvy first set, but you came through that well and blew her away in the second. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I thought going into the match I'd be a little bit rusty, so I'm really happy to get the win today, especially playing as well as I did in the end.
But I think she's a really tough opponent to play, first off because she doesn't give you very many unforced errors and gets a lot of balls back.   Some shots she somehow got it back, and then it ended up on the baseline.   It's like the point basically restarted.
So, yeah, it was a tough match, for sure.

Q.   More satisfying because you really have to sort of grafted it out?
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, I really wanted to win today.   I have lost to her twice before.   The last time I played her I had match point, so I knew going into it that she was going to be confident because she's beaten me before. 
Yeah, I just had to stay focused the whole time and not go for too much in the rallies.

Q.   How is the wrist feeling?
LAURA ROBSON:   It's fine. 

Q.   Any pain at all?   Anything during the match?
LAURA ROBSON:   (Smiling).   I don't want to say because you're going to run with that.   Yeah, I'm happy with how it is. 

Q.   How beneficial was the time you spent down in Bradenton recently or in terms of fitness and everything?   You look extremely strong out there today. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I feel, you know, faster.   I did a lot of fitness.   You know, I wasn't able to spend too much time on the court.
So we, yeah, managed to get a lot done in those two weeks.   I think that's, you know, helped me a lot, especially on court today.

Q.   Coming in as a seed, getting to 5‑4, 6‑5 that first set, I guess there was expectations on you.   You seemed to put it together what you needed to at that point, or was the pressure too much?
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I was happy with the way I was playing her service games; and then mine, I was just letting her into them a little bit with a couple of double faults here and there.
So once, you know, that settled down and I got more of a rhythm in the rally, then I was fine.

Q.   Were you expecting to find it difficult just because you haven't played that much in the last couple months?
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, for sure.   It's one thing playing practice points, but going out on to a practice court, especially first round of a slam, there is massive difference. 
Yeah, I'm very happy.

Q.   Do you still feel good walking in here knowing what you have done in the past?   Is there a sense of greater anticipation when you have come back to somewhere where you have done well?
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, I think, you know, I played really well here last year.   I'm only in the second round now, so I have a long way to go.
I thought I played especially well in the second set this morning, so, yeah, you know, we'll take it one match at a time.   But I thought it was great how many people came to watch today.

Q.   What don't you like about Dan?
LAURA ROBSON:   He's got a Jesus tattoo.   I mean, if you've ever spoken to him, he's really not the most religious person (Laughter). 
That doesn't make a lot of sense to me.

Q.   Still nice to see a friend do well, though?
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah.   You know, I think Dan is a very interesting character, and I think, you know, he can be a really great player, and he's come through the last couple weeks and, yeah, I saw the last couple games today he played really well.

Q.   You going to give him any advice?   He's going to come into Interview Room 1 in a minute. 
LAURA ROBSON:   We were all talking yesterday, and we want to get the trainer on Sky Sports because he will choke so badly, and that would just be amazing TV.
But, yeah, I think if you've ever like‑‑ if you've been following him, Dan and I think Colin as well was tweeting about it.   I think it was hashtag Speed‑o on Sky Sports.   Yeah. 

Q.   Bright orange, did you pick that?   You being stylish?
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah.   I like my shoes especially.   Very bright.   But, no, the marketing team pick what colors we wear.   I was supposed to be wearing all orange with an orange top as well, which I think Kirilenko will be playing when she plays.
I thought that was potentially a little bit too much, so I mixed it up. 

Q.   Kevin is wearing orange. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Kevin can pull it off; I can't. 

Q.   Is orange the new black?
LAURA ROBSON:   I do like black, as well.   We'll wait and see. 

Q.   I thought it was peach. 
LAURA ROBSON:   You think that's peach?   What?   It's bright orange.   Fluorescent. 

Q.   Garcia has match point.   Assuming she wins, have you played her before?
LAURA ROBSON:   No.   I have seen her play a couple of times here and there.   Not very recently though, so I think Miles is out there now watching a little bit.   Yeah, if there is a replay or something of it I'll watch it.

Q.   Have you heard about her or aware of her?
LAURA ROBSON:   I think she's a pretty smart player.   She plays with quite spinny shots.   Yeah, I guess a little bit like today.   I just have to wait and take my chances in the rally. 

Q.   Last year in the second round you won against Kim Clijsters.   What do you remember about this match and this moment?
LAURA ROBSON:   Um, I remember walking on court and being very thankful that Ashe was only half full because I was super, super nervous.   Yeah, I thought it was a great match.
I have watched it since then on TV, and I thought we both played some great tennis.   I think, you know, it's a shame that Kim's still not playing.   But, yeah, she was a great part of the tour. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT