NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 25, 2008
Richard Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RIP HAMILTON: Yesterday was yesterday. I mean, I didn't like the way that we came out, so we've just got to come out tomorrow and hopefully be better and come out and hit first and get a win. 

 Q. Can you say something to the fans in Taiwan?
 RIP HAMILTON: Thanks for watching the NBA. That's fantastic.

 Q. Just talk about the focus for tomorrow. 
 RIP HAMILTON: I mean, Eastern Conference Finals, you know? I mean, that should be big enough focus than anything. We've got to come out and take care of home. We didn't do that last night. We've got to do a better job of coming out early and setting the tone. I mean, like I said, it's the same ole, same ole. We didn't beat Philly when they came out and went 8-0, and we didn't beat Orlando when they came out and went 8-0 on us, so we've got to do a better job of that.


 Q. Do you guys ever talk about desperation? 
 RIP HAMILTON: I don't think we're desperate, not at all, not one bit. We've proved that we can go to their home court and win, and they proved that they can come to our home court and win. So now it's just going out and taking care of business when we've got another opportunity at home.

 Q. Talk about the inability to move the ball in Game 3 as opposed to Game 2. 
 RIP HAMILTON: Well, we could have easily did it in Game 3 but we didn't. It's just paying attention to detail, I mean, knowing what got us the win. We can't get a win and then all of a sudden say, you know what, we're going to go back and play another way. That's the key to beating that team.


 Q. Did they force you with the kind of aggression they played in that game, ease you into that mode?
 RIP HAMILTON: Like I said, when you go down 11-0 at the beginning of the game, your natural instincts is okay, everybody feels we've got to do it ourselves, but we can't do it ourselves. They load up so much on the strong side that they won't allow you to do that even if you want to do it. So like I said, we come out early, like they never played from behind. We played behind the whole game. 

 Q. I know you guys have had a lot of big games and won a lot of big games over the last six years, but is this one of the biggest ones you guys have had in the last six years?
 RIP HAMILTON: Well, like I said, it's a game that we want to get. It's a game that we've got to get. We just said that we wasted an opportunity going to Boston and playing the way that we've been playing and then coming out, and playing in front of our home crowd and not getting it done. So that's the most frustrating part. We've just got to figure out a way to come out tomorrow and do what we do.


 Q. Chauncey says that he wants to be a better leader, that he didn't lead enough last night. What does he do when he leads well?
 RIP HAMILTON: Well, Chauncey is the catalyst of our team. I mean, understand that since day one, he's the point guard that orchestrates the whole offense and lets us know how to get in different spots on the floor and things like that, so he's important to us.

 Q. Do you feel he can do more like he does? He says he can do more. 
 RIP HAMILTON: I believe he's doing everything possible. Chaunce is Chaunce. I feel as though he's one of the best point guards in the league and he's going out there and trying to do it.

 Q. He's just being hard on himself?
 RIP HAMILTON: Uh-huh, yeah.  







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT