NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
June 2, 2006
Richard Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Four straight Eastern Conference Finals, one championship, coming off a really tough series.  How tough is it not to feel like -- 
 RICHARD HAMILTON:  Ever since I got here, I've only been here for four years, Chauncey has been here four years, Tayshaun has been here for four and Rasheed has been here for three.  What we've accomplished in four years is four Eastern Conference Finals, a Championship and another trip to the NBA Finals.  I think the sky is still the limit.  We lost to a tough team tonight.  They deserve it. 
 Q.  When did you just feel it was getting away from you guys, after third quarter? 
 RICHARD HAMILTON:  I always liked our chances, even when we were down 18 with like five minutes left to go.  I just thought if we continued to fight, we could get back in the game.  But them guys wouldn't miss shots.  Shandon Anderson hit a three, James Posey hit a three, Jason Williams hit a three. 
 Q.  You came one game short of the Championship last year.  This year you had a great start, a great regular season.  What does it feel like to come short in this series? 
 RICHARD HAMILTON:  It hurts.  At the end of the day, if you don't win that ring, all what you did all season don't mean nothing.  Even when we won the Championship, we lost last season.  That season didn't mean nothing because we didn't walk away with a ring.  That's our goal, you know, to try to win a ring.  If you come short of that, then you've got to challenge yourself to get out there and try to win one. 
 Q.  You had the best regular season record, went in as favorites for the title.  This season, just coming short, what happened?  I mean, was there something, coaching, players not getting there?  What do you think it was that made you all fall short in the playoffs? 
 RICHARD HAMILTON:  Well, Miami played a great series.  I think every angle, every position, they played great.  There was times when we made our run, and they'd make a run.  I give credit to them.  They came out, they attacked, they played aggressive. 
 Q.  The heat made a lot of changes for the purpose of beating you guys.  Now you guys head into the off season.  You guys are prideful of your starting five, but what kind of help do you think you need to get over the top? 
 RICHARD HAMILTON:  Who knows?  Like I said, it was a tough series.  The way we played in this series wasn't the way we played all season.  We've got to figure out what was it.  I mean, you go back to the drawing board, you figure it out, then you come out the next season and hopefully you can change that. 
 But like I said, I love our chances.  I give a lot of credit to Miami, Shaq carried them, Dwyane carried them, played well, and the supporting cast played well.  You've got to give them a lot of credit. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT