NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 23, 2005
Richard Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Rip, could you talk about just the adjustments San Antonio made when they put Tony Parker on you defensively, particularly in the fourth quarter? 

RICHARD HAMILTON:  I mean, the one thing that we want to do, we just want to continue to run our offense.  We don't want to worry about mismatches and things like that.  We want to really try to take our time and come down and execute our offense, you know, get Sheed back in the game, try to get Sheed some touches and things like that.  That's it. 

Q.  How different was it for you having Tony Parker defending as opposed to Bruce who you two had been going at it back and forth throughout the series?

RICHARD HAMILTON:  It was different because Tony is not going to grab and hold as much as Bruce does.  He's pretty much going to try to use his speed and chase me around screens and things like that.

Q.  What were the specific things that went wrong for you guys in the fourth quarter? 

RICHARD HAMILTON:  Like I said, it's tough.  You've got to give a lot of credit to the Spurs, they did a great job tonight.  They had to make plays in the fourth quarter, they hit a couple big three-point shots and things like that, so you've got to give a lot of credit for them.

Q.  How did it feel for you knowing that you were maybe 12 minutes away from defending your championship and you were not able to get that? 

RICHARD HAMILTON:  It's tough.  You know, like I said, it's tough.  You've got to take the good with the bad.  We came here to give ourselves an opportunity and we did that by winning the last game and going into the fourth quarter up by a point, we gave ourselves another opportunity, but we just came up short. 

Q.  Looking forward to the next few weeks, how long do you think this is going to stay with you?

RICHARD HAMILTON:  Who knows?  Like I said, we played basketball until the last possible day that anybody could play basketball.  So probably right now you just want to get away, get away from everything, rest your body, take time off and get ready for next year. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT