NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 21, 2005
Richard Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You had not hit a three-pointer this entire series, when you hit one did you know at that point they were going to start going in for you?
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:  I just wanted to take what the defense gave me.  I didn't want to try to force the issue or anything like that.  When I had a wide open shot, I just shot it.  It was an opportunity where I could hit a three-pointer and they have to respect me from that range so I just shot it. 
 
Q.  I think we heard a couple of the crucial time-outs at the end of the game, did Coach Brown tell you, "I love you guys," And did he say to have fun? 
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:  He did say to have fun.  Coach lets you know that, let's go out there and have fun, leave it on the line regardless of what happens, if you go out there and play with 100% effort and 100% energy and just have a good time doing it, you can't ask for anything better and that's what we did.  
 
Q.  Would you agree that there was like a turning point the first half when you guys had a couple technicals and started to go off on the refs even though you were leading, but then after that, it seemed to just sort of calm down and get your concentration back and not sort of fall into that trap that you did in the first two games here?
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:  I mean, we got the technicals, we were pissed off at a couple of calls but it was actually pissed off at the players that got the technicals, too.  It was one of them things that, you know, we come in their building, we can't get caught up in anything.  Once we called a time-out, everybody said what they had to say and we just said that we can't allow ourselves to give them free points.  We stayed connected and did what we had to do to get the win.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the play when Bruce ripped your mask off, is it something that epitomized the whole series, what the whole series has been for you against Bruce? 
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:  Man, you know, I just told the ref I'm not going to be a cheap shot.  I'm not going to be out here just letting -- y'all just allowing him just to hit me wherever.  One time you got to make a call, because you make a call one time it doesn't allow the player to do that. So it was one of those things, I try not to get frustrated, Sheed just said play basketball and I just tried to keep my head and continue to play.  
 
Q.  Both Larry and Chauncey have said that it's been a tough couple of days for Sheed.  How do you see him respond when he has a tough couple of days emotionally like that and how do you feel like he did he especially in that fourth quarter? 
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:  Sheed was big, from the first play.  Like I said, he wanted the ball.  He made plays for us.  You know, he was excited.  He just wanted to get the opportunity to go out there and play.  Everybody has got everybody's back on this team.  Our motto is we win together, we lose together.  In order for us to get to where we got to get to, we've all got to stay connected and the great thing about us, we all stayed connected.  We all did what we did in shoot around, everybody was still loose, but we also know that we've got to take one game at a time and we did that tonight.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT