NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 9, 2005
Richard Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Bruce Bowen was scoreless on the floor tonight but had an incredible night defensively, you guys had quite a battle.  Could you talk about that a little bit?
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:  I think, you know, I think he played well on the defensive end.  I think that at times he just tried to, you know, made me look to a second and third option and things like that. But the good thing about it was I got any shot that I wanted.  Every shot that I took, you know, I was comfortable with it and things like that.  I just didn't make them.  So I think he played well though for them.  
 
Q.  As a team, why do you think you guys struggled offensively tonight?
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:  Well, we missed so many easy shots tonight.  We missed a lot of layups.  We missed a lot of five-foot jumpshots and things like that.  It's just that, you know, we've just got to relax a little bit.  I think the game was tied, you know, in the fourth quarter and at times we're real good.  We just have to relax a little bit and take our time and run our offense. 
 
Q.  Wanted to ask you about Manu Ginobli, he came on and just it seemed like you guys couldn't find an answer for him in the fourth quarter.  Did his play surprise you at all?
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:  I thought he was struggling at the beginning of the game and then in the fourth quarter he just tried to get to the basket.  I think that technical foul was definitely a turning point, when we thought it was a charge and the ref called a block.  He just played aggressive, tried to go to the basket and get some contact and he made plays for them.  
 
Q.  It seemed like in the fourth quarter, you guys had trouble matching your energy level, why was that?
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:  I don't know.  You know, I think, like I said, at times, like especially the beginning of the game, we had all the energy in the world.  We had a nice little lead and the thing about it, the fourth quarter seemed like they got to all the loose balls and things like that. You know both teams is going to fight.  It's an all-out war and it's going to be a long series.  We have to get to the loose balls and can't let them outrebound us and things like that to be successful. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT