NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 21, 2008
Richard Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RICHARD HAMILTON: We're a better team than that. They kind of hit us first. We're the type of team that we want to hit first, and we've been like that for the past three years. We've just got to do a better job of coming out of the gates early.  
  
  Q. How do you look at having lost one game obviously on the road?  
 RICHARD HAMILTON: It's one game, but we're obviously disappointed. That's the great thing about it. We don't look at it and say, okay, you know what, we have to deal with that, and they won on their home court. It's a game that we wanted to get and we didn't get it, so yes, we were disappointed.  
  
  Q. How do you all corral KG? I know he's going to get his at some point, but can you do a better job of slowing him down?  
 RICHARD HAMILTON: We're going to have to. KG is a big part of the offense. You know, he played well, he made shots. We have to do a better job of taking away his easy baskets.   
  
  Q. How important is it, considering that you guys have been here so many times, how important is that? You're down 1-0, this kind of environment.   
 RICHARD HAMILTON: Well, it's important, because like I said, we expect to win. You know, most teams would say, you know, they won on their home court, they did what they were supposed to do. We were trying to steal the game and stuff like that.  
 I think our mentality is we want to win every game. We don't look at the numbers and things like that, we just feel that we want to win.   
  
  Q. Do you expect Chauncey after that lay-off, do you expect him to get better game to game?  
 RICHARD HAMILTON: Most definitely. It was his first game out there, so we definitely expect him to be better. I thought that he got going a little bit better the second half, but I definitely think so.  
  
  Q. It seems like if he was slow in one area it was maybe on the pick-and-roll. Do you agree with that?   
 RICHARD HAMILTON: Well, I mean, I don't think so. I think that him just getting out there, he's so excited being out there and things like that, you know, we haven't watched tape or anything like that. But anytime you have a lay-off for a week or whatever, trying to get your rhythm back so fast...  
  
  Q. Coach said he thought that when you guys weren't playing that well it was because it was taking you a while to get into your offense.   
 RICHARD HAMILTON: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What do you do to combat that?  
 RICHARD HAMILTON: Like I said, as long as we get something in motion, other than just coming down, trying to run a set play. You know, everybody gets into the process a little bit quicker, getting the ball pass half court a little quicker. You know, we do that, then we're not playing with seven seconds left on the shot clock.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT