NBA FINALS: PISTONS v LAKERS
June 13, 2004
Richard Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Are you surprised at all by the way the Lakers are not adjusting to your offense?  This is Game  4 and even in the first half when you missed shots, you had good shots.   
 RICHARD HAMILTON:  I think the thing with us, we're really moving the ball.  I think guys are really playing together.  When they try to take one option away, of course  -- when they take something away, then we have a second and third option and that's what we have been trying to do all season and it's really working right now.   
  Q.  Would you agree that the two big keys so far have been Chauncey Billups, MVP of the Finals, dominating the opposition or the difference in team unity in all aspects, offense, defense, rebound, everything?  It's just so obvious that your team unit is at another level compared to the Lakers.   
 RICHARD HAMILTON:  Well, Chauncey has been huge.  He's been big.  He's definitely been leading us in the right direction.  Offensively and defensively, he's knowing when to shoot, knowing when to pass, knowing when to get the guys involved and things like that. You know, we definitely come together.  We come together for one common goal and that's to win.   
 We do a good job of really playing together and staying on the chain, helping each other out, not just on the defensive end but the offensive end, too.  We're really taking our time and good things are happening for us.   
  Q.  Do you think that generally, you guys wear them down as the games go on, and specifically, do you think they lost their composure in the fourth quarter tonight?   
 RICHARD HAMILTON:  I don't know.  You know, I think with the Lakers being on the West Coast, they want to get up and down.  They want we want them to try to get up and down but make them work for every possession, we don't want them do to get the fast break and get easy baskets.  Shaq, we try to make him run.  He's the most dominant player in the League so you try to get him going up and down the floor and things like that.   
 Like I said, I think the fourth quarter, both teams tried to take it to another level.  We made shots, we took our time and executed.   
  Q.  Tuesday night, with you guys on the verge, what you have to do to keep the calmness, because butterflies and being too excited can sometimes be a factor, what are you guys going to have to do?   
 RICHARD HAMILTON:  We just have to come out, stay poised really feed off our crowd.  I think our crowd has been amazing since we've been playing here.  I think we do a good job of that.  I think we know what we want.  I think the guys on this team, we won tonight, but we know we've got to win another one.  I think we all prepare for that, to be focused and really all help each other out in getting everybody's mind right so we can come out and play on Tuesday.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT