NBA FINALS: PISTONS v LAKERS
June 10, 2004
Richard Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Shaquille said that most of this outcome was effort related, do you agree with that, and how were you able to beat them to the punch so often after what happened Tuesday night?
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:   I think tonight we really came out and played with a lot of energy.  We really fed off our fans.  I think we did a great job of playing connected, playing together on both ends of the floor.  We shared the ball.  Everybody had each other's back on the defensive end.  I think guys did a great job tonight of really playing together. 
 
Q.  Tayshaun said when you and Chauncey play like you did tonight, you guys are a great team, would you agree with that?
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:   I mean, I think  -- I believe we are a great team anyway.  (Smiles). I think when me and Chauns are on, it's hard to stop us, especially when we take good shots.  I think tonight, we really let the offense dictate our shots.  We really never went out of it to take shots and try to go individually one-on-one and things like that. Everybody did a great job of setting us up.  Chauns really executed well on the pick-and-roll and made shots.  He passed when he had to pass, and you need that from your point guard. 
 
Q.  You guys pretty much outplayed the Laker guards, how do you explain how you were able to execute that?
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:   Got to give credit to Coach Brown.  He did a great job of preparing us, putting us in positions where we can succeed.  You know, he looked at a lot of tape and said, okay, they are taking this away, so we are not going to go that route, we are going to mix our offense up and run different plays.  Because a lot of plays is not the same ones that we have been running in the Indiana series, the New Jersey series and things like that.  We've been just listening to him and coming out and playing well.  
 
Q.  Coach said at halftime he wanted to strangle you, why was that? 
 
RICHARD HAMILTON:   I don't know.  Coach was telling me to slow down.  You know, he makes me see the game at a whole new different level.  That's the one thing I respect about him, because he's just not going to let me go out there and do what I want to do. Sometimes it's harsh, and I get upset and he gets upset.  But for the most part, he's just doing that to help me.  He just told me to slow down and let the offense dictate my shots and keep moving out the ball.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT