NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 17, 2009
Tuomo Ruutu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. With everything going on (Indiscernible)?
 TUOMO RUUTU: Obviously, you've got to take the positives out of Game 7. But, again, it's a whole new series, a whole new game. We haven't been too ready in the previous starts, so we've got to be ready.

 Q. The Penguins really bring the offense, with Crosby, how do you prepare for a team like that with their offense? 
 TUOMO RUUTU: Obviously, yeah, everybody knows they've got some skilled guys on their team. I don't think that's the key. We know they've got the skills. But we've just got to do our job the way that we've been successful. And I think that's the only way to approach this series, too. 

 Q. What makes this team so effective? 
 TUOMO RUUTU: I don't know. It feels like I try to play a similar game on the road as at home, because a lot of times it's just the home team always gets 40 shots and the other team gets 20 shots. It shouldn't be like that. You must have a little advantage, but not that big. So I think you've got to approach those games like they would be home games. 

 Q. Do you expect it to be a little bit more wide open skating between the two teams because of the speed both of you have? 
 TUOMO RUUTU: I hope not. Like I said, they've got some talent. We know how we've been successful. I don't think we played a wide open game and be successful. 
 But we've played really good defense, and got our chances from defending well. And I think we've got to keep doing that. 

 Q. Since the series has gone down to the wire, you guys are a team that kind of thrives and in a situation where you're kind of up against the wall and down to the wire?
 TUOMO RUUTU: I mean, today's NHL, things are so close. I mean, there is not too big of a difference between teams. Like I said, the only teams that didn't go the 7 games was the Chicago series. So that just tells you teams are so close. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT