JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2015
Luke Guthrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LUKE GUTHRIE: I mean overall, a little disappointed, but you know, 2-under, still under par.  I hung in there.  Putts weren't going in today, for whatever reason.  About half of them seemed that they were on edge for pretty good putts.  A few of them weren't my best.  But it would have been really nice to get one of those -- a couple of them to cross coming in.  I hit it close on 15, 16 and 17, and hit good putts on 16 and 17, and they just lipped out.  It was right in front of the hole.  Not much you can do about that.   Q.  You always have a lot of support here.  What's it mean to have that support on Sunday knowing you're in contention, you're right there the whole day?  LUKE GUTHRIE: Yeah.  I saw a few newer faces, so I think they're real excited.  They came up, thought I could make a run.  I started good.  That bogey on 3 hurt.  I mean I had some momentum, and not being able to get that ball up and down, that really slowed the round down, but overall, a very positive week.  I've been working hard on my game, and a lot of things that it's been frustrating along the way, and two of the four rounds I hit it really good and played some really good golf, and the other two, I didn't hit it my best, not that crisp, but I hung in there and fought to the end.  So I'm proud of that.   Q.  You said earlier in the week that this was helping you get back to 2012 form.  Do you think you did that this weekend?  LUKE GUTHRIE: I'm not quite there yet, but I mean it's a big process.  I mean I'm going to be better than 2012 once I'm there, and it's just getting the reps under.  I mean I was pretty nervous out there today.  It's a good nervous, but at times it was bad nervous, you know, and just -- I haven't been -- the things I've been working on I haven't seen enough good shots, I guess, to where I feel really good in competition about it.  But the positive thing, I hung in there and hit a lot of good shots.  It just took me forever to do it, which was -- but that's kind of part of the problem, I don't get in a good rhythm out there because it takes me a while to just trust what I'm doing.   Q.  Still, second best finish here, second best finish of the season.  It's gotta give you good vibes going forward.  LUKE GUTHRIE: Exactly.  The progress, I've been able to see it.  I mean last week at Greenbrier I finished 37th, but it was good.  It was a good 37th.  I was playing good.  Just didn't quite push across a couple more.  Two more, almost a Top 10, it was so tight.  And then here, to play really well and be kind of in contention.  I needed a low one today, and at my start, I was like, heck, I was thinking if I get to 20, who knows.  And it would probably be one more, so it was a solid weekend.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT