SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 20, 2013
Luke Guthrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Luke, what a nice round of golf.   You really got on a birdie roll there.  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah.   Just kind of got off to a solid start.   Didn't get any birdies on the first couple.   Could have got one at one, but they started falling, hit a couple close to kind of get it rolling and made a couple nice ones on 6, 7 and it was nice to get off to a good start today.   It was a little bit of a struggle yesterday.  
   
 Q.   I thought you really had a chance to do something out there.   Did you think you had a chance to catch Webb on the back nine?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Honestly, I didn't even think about it until after I made that birdie on 11, I was just kind of like ‑‑ I think I was like maybe solo second or something and I'm like, oh, dang.   I might be the only guy that can get there.   
Yeah.   Hit a lot of good golf shots coming in, left a few putts short.   The one on 12 was ridiculous.   I left that short, but 17 short, I had a good putt there.   That was just kind of a little slower putting up there towards the mountain and all in all it was a good day.  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   You had a lot of opportunities.   What are some hole locations we should be looking out for as the leaders come through in the afternoon?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Let's see here.   I think, well, 16, 17 make it interesting.   You can make eagles, you can make birdies, but 16 is pretty tight going for two if you just happen to come up and out of it on the little jet out in the lakes it's right there.   But as you can see, Carl made eagle in my group, so it makes it interesting to watch them come in.  
   
 Q.   Carl, referring to Carl Pettersson who dropped a long one for eagle at the 16th.   You may have taken care of an awful lot of business out here in just the second tournament of the 2014 wrap‑around season.   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, I think that's everyone's goal coming out here for the first four before we kind of shut it down for a month is to get off to a hot start, set yourself up for the season and not have to kill yourself playing every week and then you kind of set your schedule, and yeah, it was a big day for me.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations.  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   What's a good finish mean after the rough start to last season?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   It means that kind of my scheduling, what I thought might have caused my bad play, I think that legitimizes it a little bit.   I got off to a good start last year and kind of I think played too much and started struggling.   It's not like I was shooting 76s.   I was just shooting even pars, and that's good enough to miss a cut by one about every week.   
And so basically what I take from that is if I schedule my schedule correctly and kind of take my time and maybe just play three in a row max, and I think I can have a good steady year.  
   
 Q.   Shanghai?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Shanghai.  
   
 Q.   And then the two domestic, McGladrey and Mayakoba?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   And that's it.  
   
 Q.   What's it like being out there, you're playing very, very well, you look at the leaderboard and you're still five, six, seven back.   What's your mindset?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Honestly I came into today 10 back.   On this golf course Webb's a great player.   Even par would be a pretty rough day for him.   I don't know what he is at all.  
   
 Q.   He's 22 I think.  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah.   He's going to play solid.   Honestly coming in, I didn't think I had a shot.   When I got to like, what did I get to, 15, I was like you never know, maybe I can get to 19, 20.   And everybody‑‑ I shot even yesterday.   It can happen.   But yeah, he's playing good.   He's got a little bit of a lead and it looks like he's going to be a good front runner.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT