FRYS.COM OPEN
October 9, 2012
Luke Guthrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Luke Guthrie into the interview room here at the Frys.com Open.   He is currently No. 2 on the Web.com Tour with two victories this season.  
Luke, welcome to the Frys.com Open.   Back on the PGA TOUR this week after Web.com for a while.   What's it like to be back and what are your goals this week and for the rest of the season?   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, it's great to be back out here.   The site, the venue is awesome.   Just got here, but it looks first class.   I can't wait to get out there and tee it up with the best players in the world again.  
Haven't looked at the field for sure, but I think it's a pretty strong field this week.   I'm looking forward to the challenge.   I had a good run on the Web.com Tour.   I was able to get two wins.   
Just trying to play good solid golf and get myself in the mix a lot and just keep gaining experience for next year when I get out here and be able to apply that and hopefully win out here.  
Goal this week is nothing new:   focus on playing good golf and getting in the mix.   I mean, that's what I want to do.   There is no goal like just make the cut or anything like that.   I want to compete and see what I can do.  
   
 Q.   You've had two or three top 20 finishes on the tour before the won on the Web.com Tour and all your finishes on the Web.com have been high.   Has your start surprised you at all?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   I believed I could compete at that kind of level out here.   I didn't know how I was going to handle that amount of golf.   You don't play that many four‑round tournaments until you get out here, which it's fine for a couple weeks because the adrenaline is going.   
But after a couple months to keep playing well was nice, and to keep it rolling.   I'm happy with how I've responded to it that.  
   
 Q.   And you're still in school taking classes and graduate in December, I think.   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yep.  
   
 Q.   How did you find motivation to keep chugging away on the school part of it.   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   It's hard, because you come out to a site like this and you just want to practice all day long and hang out here all day long.   You have to go back and do an assignment.   
It's hard to do, but something that I worked for four years towards a degree and it's silly to stop now.  
I'll be very happy just to get it over with and just stick it out for, what, two more months max, month and a half.   That's really not too bad if you boil it down.   I can get it done.   
   
 Q.   After this week you'll play in Jacksonville and then TOUR Championship.   Any other plans for the rest of the year?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Pretty sure I'm going to play the Pebble Beach Callaway Pro‑Am.   I've never played Pebble Beach.   I'm very excited about that.   First time visiting the Bay Area.   This is a pretty cool area it looks like, so I'm just excited to get back here.   Rest will be nice.   
Just hang out with some friends and family back in Illinois and get my game ready for next year.   
   
 Q.   With Casey moving into the top spot on the Money List, talk a little bit about your goals for the next couple tournaments on the Web.com Tour.   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Definitely goal is to be No. 1.   Casey is playing great right now.   It's going to be difficult with Luke List playing well.   You've got Ben back there, too.   It's going to take some good golf the next two weeks.  
I haven't looked at their playing this week or anything, but I'm behind and got to go play good golf.   It's definitely a goal to be No. 1.  
   
 Q.   Pretty good group will be coming out to this tour next year from the Web.com, don't you think?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, there are some strong guys coming in.   It's good to see Russell Henley get that win.   He's a good player.   I played against him quite a bit growing up, and I was happy to see him get that and earn his card.  
There are so many other good players.   It's going to be fun to come out here all together and hopefully make some noise.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT