JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2012
Luke Guthrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Second PGA Tour event and here you are in contention at 9‑under par.   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, exactly.   Two solid first days.   Left a few out there today.   Kind of a poor three‑putt on No. 3 which was disappointing and a loose drive on 8.   Besides that, solid golf for the last two days.  
Made a few longer putts.   Could hole a few more 15‑footers here and there, but overall it's been pretty solid.   I haven't missed too many shorties inside ten feet at all.   
If I can just knock it a little closer on the weekend consistently, I think I can be right there.  
   
 Q.   Your group got put on the block for slow play.   Does that bother you at all?   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, that was kind of a rookie mistake.   I had the tee on 8 and I kind of ran up there and hit my worst tee shot of the tournament so far.   That's on me, though.   I should know better.  
Recovered and hit a good one on 9 and a hit a good iron shot coming in.  
   
 Q.   I notice you still use the University of Illinois golf ball.   Is that a freebie left over from the college days?   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, they're left over.   I have a couple boxes left, so I'm still using 'em repping Illini here.  
   
 Q.   I'm told as a PGA player you can get golf balls.   You don't have a purchase them anymore.   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   I'll keep that in mind.   
   
 Q.   Got to be pleased with 3‑under.   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, wasn't quite as sharp as yesterday.   Hit a few loose shots.   That three‑putt on 3 kind of bothered me a little bit.   Poor first putt.   I missed the green actually.   That's kind of embarrassing.   
All in all it was a solid day.   Can't wait for the weekend here.  
   
 Q.   How much did playing decent at Memphis prepare you for coming in here?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Definitely gives me something to look back to.   Had a little confidence that I know I can play out here.   
Just got to come out here and play my game and play golf.   Just keep on looking at the leaders and try to catch 'em.  
   
 Q.   You said earlier in the week you weren't just trying to make the cut, you were trying to win.   Do you feel like you've put yourself in good position for the weekend?   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah.   I think I'm four back right now or something like that, so that's not bad.   Going to have to play a heck of a weekend, but I know I have it in me.   I can't wait for the challenge.   
   
 Q.   Getting used to the celebrity status and pretty big following out there?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   It's awesome out here to have the following that I have, the supportive from Quincy, Illinois, the Illini.   Especially on Illini day today.   It was great to see all the orange and blue out there.   Hopefully come back out on the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT