JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2015
Luke Guthrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Tension there, but just two shots off the lead at this point.  LUKE GUTHRIE: Yeah, I didn't play quite as well today.  I was kind of hanging in there a little bit, and then -- I mean, another bad finish.  It's frustrating.  Got a few bad breaks on 8.  I hit a bad drive.  Was going right, came back 30 yards, and caught a divot in the fairway. But, I mean, it is what it is.  I had a lot of putts going in and stuff, so a lot of positive things.   Q.  When you had those putts going in like that, is it a bittersweet finish for you?  Is that a tough one to swallow?  How do you erase that and go into tomorrow?  LUKE GUTHRIE: Yeah, I don't like bogeys, especially a double.  I'm a little P.O'd right now. But I see the positives.  Like you said, I'm only gonna be -- I'm sure they'll go pretty deep this afternoon, but I'll be around. I'll have to get after it tomorrow though.   Q.  Course looks like it's prime for good scoring conditions.  LUKE GUTHRIE: Definitely.  (Indiscernible) playing about the same.  Greens are awesome.   Q.  Talk about the Illini orange and blue that's been following you around.  LUKE GUTHRIE: Yeah, it's been awesome.  Illini Day today.  Definitely felt a lot of the sport.  It's so cool to play in the home state, and on top of that Illini Day there are a few more orange and blue out there and stuff, and it's exciting.   Q.  Luke, you good at forgetting a bad shot like on 8?  LUKE GUTHRIE: Yeah, I mean, everyone can always get better.  But, yeah, just made a bad swing on 9.  Didn't really feel like that was because of No. 8 at all.  I was calmed down.  Felt good about the tee shot and stuff. Just O hit really two great putts on 8 and 9.  Just didn't go in.  One didn't break; the other one did.   Q.  Patience is a word I've heard a lot.  It seems oxymoronical on this course where you want to be aggressive.  Is that what find yourself doing, especially after a finish like that, is trying to stay patient?  LUKE GUTHRIE: Yeah.  I mean, no matter what the course is, you try to force it it's not going to go well for you.  You got to let to come to you. Yeah, you got to make a lot of birdies, but can't try it make 'em.  You just got to let 'em happen.   Q.  You put yourself in contention obviously.  You feel good about the weekend?  LUKE GUTHRIE: Yeah, definitely feel good about it.  I'm playing well, putting really well, short game is strong.  I mean, hit a few quirky shots today that got me in trouble.  I'll clean that up and it'll be a good weekend.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT