JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2012
Luke Guthrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Got to be pretty pleased with that.   Talk about your round?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, it was a good, solid round.   It was nice to get off to that start dropping that long putt on 2.   That was pretty cool getting a little crowd roar.   
Yeah, could have played a better back nine.   I was a little sloppy out there.   But overall, very pleased with my start.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the position you put yourself in after round one.   You're right there with only four back.  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, I'll take three more of those.   No, I mean, you got to go low here.   I don't know exact numbers the last couple years, but I know it's around 20 or even more.   So you got think four 66s look pretty good.   I one bettered that today, and hopefully I can do it tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the putter.   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, I finally ‑‑ I haven't made a lot of putts yet this year.   Kind of held me back a little bit just making those 30‑footers and having to roll in like, I don't know what it was, probably a 50‑footer and got another one later.   Nice to get those going.   
Missed a few 15 footers but made a few, too, so can't complain too much there.  
   
 Q.   How much did the eagle lift your game?   After 1 you thought you should have had the birdie, didn't get it, and then you got the eagle.   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, exactly.   It's just nice to calm the nerves.   Had an awesome crowd out there supporting me, so I wanted to give them something to cheer about.   It was nice to do that early.   It definitely calmed me down and just kind of got me into the round.   Just played a good, solid round behind that.   
   
 Q.   How much of a calming influence is it having a brother on the bag?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Oh, quite a bit.   I mean, we have a great relationship.   We work well together and he's been my coach for four years.   He's been on all the par‑3 tees.   We just get along pretty well.   
Yeah, it's nice to run everything by him.   He knows my game really well so it's nice.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, exactly.   Just try to go out there and play good, steady golf, solid fairway, green, and hopefully roll on a few putts.   I was able to do that, so come back out here tomorrow No. 10 tee and try to stripe and drive.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow is Illini day.   You got your wardrobe picked out?   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   I got Navy and orange sitting out on the bed ready to go.   No, I've seen D.A. quite a bit this week.   Haven't run into Stricker yet.   But he was playing by the time I got here, so I can't wait to see him and talk to him a little bit.   
   
 Q.   Put together five pretty good rounds to start your PGA TOUR career.   Not a lot of guys do that right out of the chute.   How much of that is a good confidence boost for you?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, for sure.   I've just come out here and tried to play one shot at a time and treat it as another tournament.   Over at Illinois we played pretty big events and played four National Championships, I was lucky enough, and Big 10 Championships and had some meaningful putts.   All those tournaments I think have prepared me.  
I'm definitely nervous on those first tees, but if you're not nervous then why are you here?   You should be a little nervous.   Yeah, it's been great.   
   
 Q.   The UofI have kind of followed along with you.   A lot of alumni here today.   How nice is it to have the familiarity and see the familiar faces?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Oh, yeah, for sure.   To look out in the crowd and see some people I haven't seen for a while from Quincy and Illinois.   Those guys have been around our program for a long time.   They're awesome guys.   
It's fun to make a putt and get a big roar and stuff.   Just to have the that kind of support is unique.  
   
 Q.   What does it mean to be on the first page of the leaderboard with a guy like LUKE GUTHRIE?   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, it's awesome.   That's where I want to be.   I want to be up near the leaders.   It's going to take a lot more good, solid golf to stay up there with Stricker and everyone else up there.   Looking forward to the next three days and the opportunity here.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the read on No. 2.   You measured it out step by step, and then at the last second it dropped down in.   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, I had a pretty good bead on it and just trying to put the right speed on it.   It looked like it was going to be pretty quick past that hill.   Happened to get it coming down on the right line.   It looked pretty coming down.   
   
 Q.   What have you been doing since NCAA this spring?  
LUKE GUTHRIE:   I played down in Memphis in the St. Jude.   Made the cut and played pretty solid on the weekend.   Got T19th down there.   
Went over in vary are and played a mini‑tour event and got fourth place there.   Just kind of a solid week.   Nothing special.  
Since then I tried to Monday into Nationwide, but been a lot of golf lately streaming back to the college days, so I took about a week and a half off before this event and tried to work on a lot of wedge play and get ready for this one.  
   
 Q.   Quincy, not far down the road here, a lot local fans and friends here?   
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, I was in the credential trailer Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, writing out tickets and stuff.   I'm looking forward to more people showing up.   I think a lot of people are planning to come to the weekend if I make it.   Planning on being here, so we'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT