FRYS.COM OPEN
October 9, 2014
Luke Guthrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well done out there, 4‑under par your last six holes, closed 4‑under par.   How was it out there?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   It was good.   It's a beautiful day here in Napa.   It's been a long six weeks off.   I've been itching to get back out here, and it's nice to compete again.   I played good all day, just finally made a few putts on the back nine and got my feet under me, and it was a good day.

Q.   You come to a golf course where really not many players have played it.   How do you feel as a player coming to an event like that?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   I think it's kind of fun.   It's exciting, it's new.   I really like the golf course here.   It's kind of unique.   It's kind of like shorter and tighter and you've got to think your way around.   Seems like a lot we play kind of the bombing‑‑ pull driver out and kind of wail on it.   Around here you have to think a little bit, and it's fun.   It's a challenge.

Q.   I see you on the back of the range at TPC Sawgrass an awful lot, Billy Horschel, Jonas Blixt.   Do you pick those guys' brains a lot to give you something to take forward to get that first win?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Oh, for sure.   I don't really ask them much.   It's kind of creepy, but when they're not looking I'm kind of watching what they're doing, what they're working on.   You're always trying to learn as a player.   When Vijay was still back there, I watched him a lot, and he knows what he's doing.   Just been working on my tempo, and if I get my tempo right, everything just seems to fall in place.

Q.   As we head into another year, what sort of goals have you set for yourself, and what did you work on in the off‑season?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   The first is obvious, to get the W, and if you win in this game everything else takes care of itself.   That's the number one goal.   Besides that, just a bunch of process goals behind that, but a lot of it has to do with just my tempo kind of with my swing and kind of my emotional state.   I can get a little fiery out there and a little down on myself, and just trying to maintain all that.

Q.   Out here in wine country, I understand you're going to hit a winery this afternoon?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Yeah, me and my brother are going to go do a wine tasting, so we're going to have a romantic afternoon. 

Q.   What was the key to the round today for you? 
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Just kind of like I said in the off time, I really worked on my tempo.   I've noticed when my tempo is right at the top and I have a little softer transition, everything seems to fall in place.   Obviously I was a little amped because I haven't played in a while, so the challenge was to kind of keep that tempo smooth at the top because my tendency is to definitely get a little quick and things can go a little wrong from there.   I did a really good job of that.   There was only a few swings today where I kind of got a little quick, but I was able to get right back into it.

Q.   Any of those birdies toward the end that stand out?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   I mean, I made that putt on, what was it, 15, the par‑3, it was just kind of like a bonus.   I was playing like 12 feet of break just trying to get it down there and give it a chance, and it found the cup.   Hit two really good shots on 16 and 18, really hit some strong 3‑woods in there to give myself a good chance.   I missed a few opportunities on the front nine, was kind of a little shaky with the putter, but got the speed a little better towards the back nine and started rolling them in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT