VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2014
Luke Guthrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     Luke, pair of 70s, man and you're one back right now.   This golf course is not the easiest out here, is it?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   No.   It's known to be pretty difficult and it's kind of showing its teeth.   You feel like you can get it and all of a sudden it just doesn't equal something.   I don't know -- it's kind of tough to get on a run out here.   Get strings of birdies going so I think that's what -- the par-5s aren't gimmes and just got to hit a lot of good shots.

Q.   Talk about that, playing a practice rounds with your buddies, gamble.   Pin is in the middle of the green a little bit or you play in the Pro-Ams, pin is in the middle of the green, you go shoot 4-under par, oh, I played okay.   Stick the pins in the corner, played great.   What's going on out here?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   I always talk to my caddy, my brother about that.   I hit it so good on the practice rounds.   What happened on the first round?   They just moved the pins three, four from the edges.   It's tough to get close and then I think these greens are difficult to read a little bit.   They're fooling everyone for the most part.   It's tough to make those 30-footers.

Q.   I was just told that the scoring average is tougher today than it was yesterday.   You don't realize exactly how cold it was in the morning but don't you think the course played a little simpler today than it did yesterday for you?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Definitely.   I thought today people would be going low.   The wind kind of came up.   I'm one of the last ones in the morning wave, I forget, maybe 13, 12 for me, my 3rd or 4th hole and obviously that made it more difficult but I'm surprised that some people aren't going lower.

Q.   There's no explanation, really.   We're trying to figure it out.   Hole locations didn't seem to be really, as a whole, that tough today, were they?   Might have been part of it, maybe?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   They're not simple to get after.   I think most of us, like I said, par-5s you got to hit some really good drives to get yourself in a situation to get up around the green.   Lot of golf courses that's where the scoring comes from.   I know I'm only 1-under through eight par-5s.   That's a little higher for me than normal.   Try to make more.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT