THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2014
Luke Guthrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you tell us what happened on 13, what Tiger said to you?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   Obviously he kind of noticed that he wasn't feeling the greatest there.   I noticed he was starting to kind of gingery tee up the ball and pick up the ball out of the hole and stuff.   He just came over and said that, I can't go anymore, it was a pleasure playing with you and I just said, take it easy, feel better.   Pretty unofficial, uneventful.

Q.   During the entire round, did it seem like he was laboring? 
LUKE GUTHRIE:   He made a couple uncharacteristic shots; the drive on 3 kind of was the first one.   I didn't know if he wasn't feeling the greatest and kind of seemed like he might have been protecting, came up and out of it.   I don't know, I didn't think much of it until, I forget maybe the first hole,11, I noticed he was bending down gingerly.

Q.   Any talk, chitchat at all? 
LUKE GUTHRIE:   He didn't mention it to me.   We were just chitchatting.   Obviously he wasn't playing the greatest.   I wasn't playing the greatest.   I mean, he was battling out there.   He was trying to birdie‑‑ nice birdie on 7 for him.   It's not like he wasn't throwing in the towel; he was still trying.

Q.   After yesterday, how surprised are were you to see him pull out of the tournament today? 
LUKE GUTHRIE:   If you're hurting, you're hurting.   You don't need to risk injuring yourself even more.   He's had his share of problems with injuries.   There's no reason for him to chance it if he's really hurting. 

Q.   Had you planned on wearing red all along on Sunday?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   This is the only shirt I had left. 

Q.   Did he say anything? 
LUKE GUTHRIE:   It was an easy choice.   Kind of crossed my mind last night, kind of looked in the closet.   Obviously I just brought seven shirts down here.   I didn't know I was going to be playing with Tiger on Sunday and red happened to be the only one left.   I'm like, at least I'm not wearing black pants.

Q.   Do you think that's why he withdrew? 
LUKE GUTHRIE:   (Laughter). 

Q.   Yesterday you talked about the fact that you wanted to beat him; do you consider this a win now?
LUKE GUTHRIE:   I was beating him when he pulled out, so I mean, I‑‑ it was disappointing that he had to do that, but like I said, if he's hurting, he's hurting and it kind of looked like he was, and unfortunately I didn't play the greatest.   I wish we had another day like yesterday where we're making birdies and shooting 5‑ , 6‑under. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT