BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2020
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Tony, how would you characterize your round out there today?
 TONY FINAU:   Yeah, I played solid.  I would have liked to have that putt back on 17.  I hit a great drive and to make 5 there is kind of a sin.  I played solid all day.  Just hung in there, really.  I didn't feel like I had my best stuff, but on a golf course like this you've just got to stay as patient as possible, and I was able to do that.
 Q. What is it about not just your game but maybe your mindset, your attitude that seems to really play well on tough golf courses?
 TONY FINAU:   Yeah, I seem to play well when par is a good score.  I enjoy the grind of it, I think, is what it is.  Man, this golf course is everything you can handle.  A couple guys under par right now, who knows what it's going to be like after tomorrow, but I definitely like being challenged like this, and I think a lot of us do.  The golf course is in great condition, and if you hit the shot, you can score.  If you don't hit the shot, you're going to make bogey.  It's that type of golf this week.
 Q. What is the biggest challenge that the course presents to you personally?
 TONY FINAU:   Yeah, I think mostly off the tee, just trying to figure out how to hit the fairway.  You really don't have to hit it with length on this golf course to contend.  You have to hit the fairway, though, if you're going to even give yourself a chance to start the hole.  I might change things up a little bit on the weekend.  It seems to be working for the most part, but I've still got to hit more fairways I feel like to give myself a real chance to shoot anything under par.
 Q. Earlier Kevin Kisner says he believes even par will win this tournament.  Do you feel like that could be true?
 TONY FINAU:   Well, 3-under was leading yesterday, 1-under is leading today.  I wouldn't bet against that.  The golf course is playing that way.  If it rains tonight, I think that could change things a little bit, but even with rain, this golf course is a beast, and if you finish under par this week you're probably going to win this tournament.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT