BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2017
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tony, what a nice way to celebrate your 28th birthday with a 65.  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it was really nice.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  A clean card.  Out in 3-under, home in another 3-under, 6-under total.  Tell me about the round.  
TONY FINAU: It was really solid.  Made some par saves when I needed them.  I think that was the biggest thing.  I was comfortable with the putter.  I was able to see it early and rolled with that momentum.   
 Q.  Really a nice par after a wayward wedge into the 16th green.  
TONY FINAU: For sure.  Putting was everything today.  Making those crucial pars are huge.   
 Q.  I know that you sacrificed a few yards this year in order to hit some more fairways.  11 of 14 fairways, 15 of 18 greens and 3 of 3 scrambling.  
TONY FINAU: It's pretty good.  You're doing those things and going to put together a good round.  I was pleased with the way the round went today and looking forward to the rest of the week.   
 Q.  39th in FedExCup Points.  Do you approach this week any differently?  
TONY FINAU: Not really.  I try not to think too much of numbers.  My experience taught me that.  Just come out and do your best to give yourself a chance to win.   
Wherever the chips fall that's where they fall at the end of the week.  I'm excited about that 1st Round and look forward to the next three.   
 Q.  Well played and happy birthday again.  
TONY FINAU: Thank you.   
 Q.  Good playing.  Bogey-free, 65.  How did it look out there for you?  
TONY FINAU: Felt good.  The putter was a big key today.  Made some par saves when I needed to and hit it really nicely.  Hit some close ones.  Overall, a really solid round for me.   
 Q.  You seemed to hit the ball pretty well off the tee here as well.  How does this course shape up for you?  
TONY FINAU: Pretty nice.  I think, you know, a golf course that I played before so I think that helps and I know where to hit it, I know which clubs to hit off the tee.  I think that's half the battle, the little things I did on this.   
 Q.  Makes your birthday a little bit sweeter as well, doesn't it?  
TONY FINAU: Feels great to start off my birthday this way, is nice.  I'm hoping for big things as a 28 year old and started off this way is pretty cool.   
 Q.  What kind of celebrating are you doing in town?  
TONY FINAU: Just dinner.  Nothing too much.  I don't have my wife here, my family is not here.  Just probably get something to eat and celebrate.  I'm blessed to have lived this long.  28 years is great.  I look forward to many more years to come.   
 Q.  You come in this week 39th FedExCup.  How much are you thinking about East Lake as you're playing?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah.  It's in the back of my mind for sure.  I'd be lying to tell you if it wasn't.  But just trying to approach the week the same as every week.  Prepare yourself as much as possible to try and win a golf tournament.   
That's all we're trying to do this week.  Wherever the chips fall at the end that's where they fall.  I do know what I have to do and at this point not looking too far ahead but I put myself in contention and got three more days to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT