RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2017
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your round.  You got to 10-under really early and were kind of stuck on that number, and you're a perfect example of what you can do on the par 5s coming up.  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, nice way to finish.  Exactly how I felt out there, stuck on 10-under.  I was hitting good shots and wasn't able to execute on some putts.  You know you have some insurance in front of you when you have 13, 16 and 18 in front of you, at least something to look forward to.   
Unfortunately walked away with par on 13.  But I knew I was going to have some chances on 16 and 18, and I was able to really capitalize on those.  Hit some great drives, put some mid-irons into my hands and made some putts.   
I needed the finish to get in contention going into tomorrow.  You never know what's going to win this, but it looks like it's going to be something around 20-under at least.  For me to get to 14 at the end of the day, is in contention for sure.   
 Q.  Did you look up at the scoreboard early and see what Garrigus was doing to the golf course?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, he was 7-under through 11 and knew he could do something special.  He had a great finish.  Congrats to him on a great round of golf.  I knew it was out there.  The golf course is out there for the taking if you put it in play.  If you make some putts, you can go low out here and looks like I'm going to have to do another one tomorrow, another low round tomorrow.  Look forward to the challenge.   
 Q.  Work your way up the leaderboard on moving day, eagles at 16 and 18.  How did you pull them off?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I just started with the drive.  I hit some good drives and they were putting mid-irons into my hands.  When I hit good drives on those holes I can do some damage.  I was able to show that today and maybe a couple eagles.   
 Q.  Always good to end on a high note but in front of this crowd to be able to eagle that 18th hole, what was the reaction like?  
TONY FINAU: It was incredible.  I was about four feet from the hole and had a really good chance.  Whenever you have an eagle, it's a great thing.  But in front of great fans like these Canadian fans, it's really cool.  And on an historic hole like No. 18 at Glen Abbey, it's pretty awesome.  I was stoked about that finish and look forward to the challenge tomorrow.   
 Q.  A lot of people going low today.  We saw 62 already.  How aggressive does this course like to play?  
TONY FINAU: You can play aggressive this year because of how soft it is.  Fairways are a premium here.  Sometimes you can get away with hitting it in the rough and still be able to attack the flag.  I think that's why you see a lot of good scores.  I knew it was there for the taking.   
Early on I saw Garrigus doing what he was doing, so I knew I had some good golf to play in front of me and some holes I could score on.  So I was happy to do that coming in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT