VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2017
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Low round of the day, 64, how good did it feel out there today?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it was good.  It's a lot of fun when you're hitting it that well.  Gave myself a lot of opportunities to make birdies and put together a good round.
Q. To have a clean card, championship Sunday on this difficult layout, must give you a lot of satisfaction?
TONY FINAU: It does.  Any time you can shoot a low round on a Sunday on a tough golf course, when you're in the thick of it, I think you can definitely take some positive signs from it.  This will be one I put in the memory bank, no doubt.
10, hit a beautiful drive, sand wedge about 110 yards and hit it perfectly.  I thought maybe had a chance to go in but ran past and brought it back nice and close.
Q. What number was in your mind?
TONY FINAU: I thought if I could get to 12 or 13, you just never know what can happen coming down the stretch.  I definitely was trying to shoot for that.  I had my opportunities and missed one on 14 and 15.  I gave myself some good looks and again on 18.  That's all I could ask for.  Again, it's a lot of fun when you're hitting it this well and giving yourself some opportunities.
Q. We've talked so much about the Snake Pit and how difficult it is.  You played it 1-under today.
TONY FINAU: I think even par or better on the Snake Pit is always a good thing, so I'll take under par there any time.
Q. Looking ahead to the WGC match play, 77 in the world right now, may or may not be good enough.  If it's not, you go to Puerto Rico to defend and if it is, you go to the Match Play.  Win/win, either way.
TONY FINAU: Yeah, win/win situation.  I would love an opportunity to do either.  I did all I could this week to give myself an opportunity and we'll see where the World Ranking goes from here.  You know, it's nice just to be playing well and teeing it up no matter where, whether it's Puerto Rico or Austin.
Q. Must be fun to play out of the fairway on every hole here at the Copperhead.
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it's a lot of fun.  It's fun to be in the hunt and hitting it well and making some putts and making some putts early.  I've been hitting my driver nicely really all year.  I've done some good work in the off-season and the new driver that I hit, so a lot of things went well today and that was the key.  You've got to hit fairways here to score and I was able to do that.
Q. If you're going to shoot in the mid 60s, you have to make over a hundred feet of putts because it's hard to get close to the hole.  You only had 83 feet worth of putts and missed a bunch.
TONY FINAU: I gave myself a lot of opportunities.  Hitting 13 fairways for me and most of those being driver, I'm going to have a lot of looks.  I'm going to give myself a lot of looks and I was able to do that today.
Any time you shoot 64 on a golf course like this and put yourself in the thick of it towards the end is going to give me some positive confidence moving forward.  So I'll definitely keep this one in the memory bank.
Q. What course are the boys in the last group playing?  It doesn't seem like the one that everybody else is playing.
TONY FINAU: No, it doesn't.  Every time I make a birdie, I look up and they made one, too.  One of those weeks; seems like that every week.  There's always one guy that plays really, really well.  Looks like I was a little too far to start the day, too far behind, but I was again, happy to put together a good round on a Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT