THE 145TH OPEN
July 14, 2016
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think the wind was up on my front nine, but I was able to take advantage of it because most of the holes are downwind and a little bit off the right, which is the normal wind, I hear, out here, and I was able to take advantage of the front.
When I got to the back, the wind switched in our favor.  Instead of having all those holes into the wind, they were just kind of crosswinds, which helps on the back nine, because a lot of the holes are a lot longer and a lot tougher.  Couple blind tee shots to start the back.  I was able to take advantage, I think, of just the conditions today and score well.
Q. You're pretty good at these first ever major championship rounds and events.  Is there some secret?  Is it a mindset that you have?
TONY FINAU: No, I try to just approach it like another event.  I know how big the golf tournament is and things.  But I think if you get too caught up in that, your emotions can kind of take over.  I try to treat it like another golf tournament.  When I tee it off, just try to enjoy myself.  I think if you put too much pressure on yourself, or at least me, I don't think you perform as well.  I enjoyed being here for the first few days and enjoyed being out there my first round.
Q. How could your game plan potentially change with conditions being different the next few days?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think just you've got to hit a lot of quality shots coming down the stretch on the back nine when the wind is the direction that it's supposed to be.  And if it picks up, then it plays a lot tougher.  But I think I'm hitting it nicely.  You're going to have to control your ball flight when the wind picks up.  And I did a nice job of that today.  Hopefully I can just continue that the rest of the week.
Q. About the greens, can you just describe a little bit on the PGA TOUR and the greens and what is the difference?
TONY FINAU: It's really different around the greens from what I'm used to.  You can be so creative.  There are so many different clubs you can use and so many different shots you can hit.  You can use from a putter all the way to a 3-wood around the greens and everything in between.  Just depending on what shot you want to hit.  But I enjoy that.  I feel like I'm a pretty creative player.
I didn't have to do too much of that today.  I hit it really nicely, so I hit most of the greens.  But I like playing this style of golf, and now you have to be really creative around the greens.
Q. Do you take a while to adapt to that style of golf?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, this is the first time I've played links golf.  I grew up watching it and so I think you can get a little bit of a sense of it, but it's a lot different when you finally get here and have to hit those shots.  So I did as much prep work as I felt I could to prepare for it, and so far it's going good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT