SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2016
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: How do you feel about the wrap-around season, take the time off?  You played a little bit in the fall and here you are.   
TONY FINAU: It definitely feels like a new season because of the new year and having played a lot competitively for over a month, but I kind of like the way they have it set up with the wrap-around season because if you get deep into the playoffs, you're still pretty fresh and you have a couple of weeks off and then you restart the season.  So I do enjoy that, instead of having a couple of months off before we start a new season.  That's the way I look at it.  And I hope they keep it that way.   
 Q.  Being Polynesian, is it different coming to Hawaii to play here as opposed to going to the John Deere Classic or something like that?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, for sure.  I feel like -- I have a lot of roots here.  My mom is from the North Shore and my wife is from the North Shore.  So I definitely have roots planned here in Hawaii.  It's the feeling I get, being Polynesian, there's a lot of Polynesian people here.  And I have a lot of support.  It's one of the reasons why I do like coming back.   
Like you mentioned before, I haven't had the success that I would have liked, but I do like to play in front of Polynesian people, and I have a great support system here with a lot of relatives and a lot of Polynesian people, so to be able to play in front of them at the SONY OPEN is really nice.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your equipment change and what the process was through all that?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah.  For sure.  The biggest change I feel like when you're changing equipment with clubs and the ball is the ball, you gotta get used to the new feel and just the way the ball reacts around the green when you're hitting full shots.  So the first thing we attacked was that, was getting the right ball, the one that I liked and the one that I felt was the most similar to what I'm already used to.   
So after that we went pretty much started from the green back.  We started with the putter, did a lot of wedge work.  That's really important in my game, really in everybody's game.  But did a lot of wedge work.  And then worked our way up to the irons.  I thought the irons were awesome, really similar to the ones I was using at Callaway.  So that was nice.  And then they had a driving iron that I really liked.  I used the driving iron last year.  So that was really effective for me.  So I had the same shots in that.   
But I was really impressed with the driver, driver-ball combination.  I felt like the way it flew through the wind and crosswinds and things like that was really nice, cut through the wind a lot more than any ball I've ever played.  So I like the way the driver sets up.   
Again, I'm going to try to put it into play this week.  There's a lot of work that's been put into it so I'm anxious to get it out there and get it underway.   
 Q.  Brooks Koepka was talking about the ball and the wind, too, and how it goes through the wind last week he was saying that.  
TONY FINAU: Yeah.   
 Q.  There is that video you posted on your Instagram of ^ you dunking flat-footed.  Do you think you could beat everyone on TOUR in a dunk contest?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah.  I think I can because I haven't seen anybody else that can dunk with two hands.  I think a lot of guys can dunk a basketball, but there's a lot of difference between barely being able to dunk and basketball and doing some kind of trick.  So yeah, I think so.  If there was a dunking contest, I think I could.   
 Q.  If it was a one-on-one contest even?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, one-on-one is different than dunk contest.  But yeah, I do consider myself a good basketball player, and I probably play more than I should, because you could get hurt definitely playing basketball.  But I enjoy playing the game.  And yeah, I think I'm one of the better basketball players for sure on the PGA TOUR.  I know there's other guys that play and things, but yeah, I'd play against anyone.   
 Q.  Yeah.  That would be fun to watch.  You mentioned that you haven't had like the best results here.  What do you think you need to work on for a better week?  
TONY FINAU: I think my mindset is a little bit different.  I have a lot more confidence with the results that I've had on TOUR last year this year, this time around, and understand just more about my game and my golf swing.  I think that should help me this week.   
But I haven't -- I think I missed the cut both times by one.  I didn't play terrible, but didn't make putts when I needed to and things, but hopefully we can change that this week.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah.  My No. 1 goal in 2016 season is to win.  That's really the next step in my career.  I've had some nice Top 10s, some nice finishes in majors, so it's kind of boosted my confidence.  And I do feel like the next step is to win on the PGA TOUR.   
That's my biggest goal.  I'm just giving myself an opportunity every Sunday that I play to be in contention and get a win.  I know a lot of good things happen from that long-term.  But that's just kind of really the only goal that I have for 2016.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
TONY FINAU: Finishes in the majors for sure.  All the best players in the world are there.  So you know the competition is as good as it'll get.  And to get the finish I had at two majors that I played in, it was nice to see where my game was, and I got a lot of confidence from that, just seeing my name surrounded by all the best players in the world on the top of the leaderboard.  It was pretty cool.  Hopefully I can build on that in this coming season, the coming year.   
 Q.  Is there something about your game that you think makes it really good for the majors?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah.  I hit the ball far.  I hit it high.  And my short game is coming around a lot.  It's starting to be a lot more consistent.  So I think you have to have a full-rounded game when you're playing majors.  And I'm starting to feel that, not only people to myself, but the tougher the venue, it seems like my game holds up.   
So I look forward to putting my game to the test this year.   
THE MODERATOR: Anything else?  Tony, we really appreciate your time.   
TONY FINAU: Yeah.  Have a great week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT