THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2015
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on your day?  
TONY FINAU: I only made par on one of my first ten holes.  It was a little streaky.  Got off to a nice start and was just happy with the way I finished after making a few bogeys early.   
 Q.  I think it was three birdies, three bogeys.  Is that the way you started the round?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is it hard to not get aggravated after a start like that?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, but fortunately for me it was really early.  Through six holes, I looked at it as I'm still even par, although I did get off to a great start.  Plenty of holes I feel like I can take advantage of with the wind direction this today.   
So I just tried to stay as patient as I could and still was able to make a couple birdies before I finished the front nine.   
 Q.  This golf course being a little bit different than what you normally play on TOUR, do you find yourself being just as aggressive with driver as you normally would?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I pick and choose my spots.  For sure, if I feel like it's a hard fairway for me to hit with even a 2-iron or 3-wood in my hand.  I'll go ahead and hit the driver and put it up there whether I'm in the fairway or not.  At least I'm closer to the green.  That's the strategy on some of the holes and it worked today.   
 Q.  What did you do on 18?  
TONY FINAU: I went for it on 18 and I made birdie.  I pulled it a little bit.  It was just left of the flag and I was able to get a decent enough life in the rough to chip it to about 10, 12 feet and roll that one in.   
 Q.  Is there an example of a hole where you would maybe not go with an iron or 3-wood because the fairway -- like where would that be?  
TONY FINAU: No. 2, I feel like it's a hole where you can lay back for sure in front of that bunker on the left.  But it's a hard green to hit I feel like if you're hitting a 6- or 7-iron to that green.  I'd rather be hitting a lob-wedge or even a sand wedge out of the rough on that specific hole.   
So there's a few holes out there -- I can't think of them right now.  But I hit driver a few more times than probably most people think.   
 Q.  Does it help on a course like this where the greens are difficult to hit sometimes that you can be out of the rough and maybe play for some release and play short of pins?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, so No. 9 today with that pip, just on top of the ridge, if you draw a decent lie in the rough, it's almost easier to just run something up instead of worrying about the spin if you're hitting from the fairway, especially with that second shot being straight into the wind with that wedge in your hand.   
So I pulled it into the rough today but again, I was able to kind of run something up and at least have a decent look at birdie.  So you never want to hit in the rough, but it can be your friend on some holes where the pin is far in the back.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT