PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2015
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No Microphone.)
TONY FINAU: I feel good.  It was just nice to make that putt on 18.  I played that hole terrible this week.  It was nice to finish with a par.  It's a really hard hole.  After making a 7 on 9, it was tough to swallow with how good a tournament I had and how good I felt like I was playing, to kind of get myself out of contention, that was a little hard to swallow.
But I was still playing really good golf and I was just really proud just the way I hung in there and finished to be able to finish the day under par with the triple bogey in a Major is huge for me.
Q. How will you walk away from this tournament?  What will you think after you did so well?
TONY FINAU: It was a bunch of positives.  Take what I've learned and just move forward with that.  I feel like my game's built to play Major Championships, and I think I proved that to myself for the second time.  There's definitely some things that I need to work on, there always will be, but I do feel comfortable.  I feel like in the setting, in the atmosphere, I feel comfortable and I don't think you can teach that.
Q. What did you think you had to prove to yourself?
TONY FINAU: I just have to, you have to get results out here.  You have to prove to yourself that you belong to play with the best players in the world.  The only way you do that is to see your name on the leaderboard with them.
So the strides that I've taken from last year to this year are really big.  If I continue to do that, I continue to learn, then I do feel like I could be one of the best players in the world.
Q. How much of the strides that you've made have been due to seeing people in your age range not just contending but winning Majors?  The first two pages of this leaderboard are full of players in their mid-20s?
TONY FINAU: Exactly.  I think we all push each other and it's inspiring to see what Jordan has done for sure.  He's 21 years old and destroying every tournament he plays in.
Q. Is he making you feel old?
TONY FINAU: He is a little bit.  A lot of them are.  Justin Thomas, Daniel Berger, those guys just got out of diapers, teenagers, so to see them doing what they're doing, it's inspiring.  But it's a new era I feel like in golf with a lot of young cats coming up in golf and I'm happy to be one of the guys.
Q. What did you think of the scores Thursday through today?
TONY FINAU: I'm excited to come back.  I knew it was a good setup for me but with that information it almost puts more pressure on you to play good because of the way it kind of sets up for someone who hits it far.  So I'm really happy with a top-10 this week, and moving forward it is huge for my confidence.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT