PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2015
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round this morning and posting 7-under through 36?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, for sure.  I played nicely my second round.  Key parts to my game the first couple rounds was my putting.  I was able to take a lot of pressure off a lot of parts of my game just by making some key putts and keeping the momentum.  So that's been really nice to have that going.
And then was able to hit some quality shots as well when I needed to as well.  So it helps with my length, I think this golf course, to have four par-5s, for sure.  And we'll be looking forward to the weekend, hope I can continue to score on the par-5s like I have the last two days.
Q. How big was the eagle?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, that was huge.  I hit two really good shots.
I think a lot of guys are taking advantage of 16.  At least yesterday it was straight downwind.  So I was able to hit a 3-wood and 5-iron to the middle of that green.  So, I'm sure a lot of guys were making birdies.  So it was nice to make an eagle there.
Q. A lot of people talk about driving out here really getting off to a good start on one of these holes.  How important has the iron play been coming into greens from your perspective?
TONY FINAU: It's been huge.  I've been able to hit some fairways and with my length, take advantage of some of the length by hitting some of the fairways.  The rough is really thick, so if you hit it in there, it is almost a shot penalty really to just hit it in the rough.  So you've got to keep it in play and I was able to do that so far.
Q. It's only your second Major, what did you take from the U.S. Open?  What did you bring in from the U.S. Open to here?
TONY FINAU: That's the only experience that I can lean on is the U.S. Open and I played well.  I feel like I played really well for my first Major.  I think my game suits some bigger golf courses, some firmer golf courses and things with my high ball flight.  So, hopefully I continue to play well in Major Championships.
Q. The short game around these greens, nuance, how tricky can it be around this?
TONY FINAU: Really tough, because a lot of times if you just barely miss the green, it's almost better to miss the green by 10 or 12 yards to get some of the trampled down rough.  But if you just barely miss the green by a yard or two then you're in some pretty thick stuff.  It's hard to predict how the ball's going to come out.  So I've been able to just sometimes just sneak the ball on the green and take advantage of my putting.  So, we'll see if I can continue that on the weekend.
Q. How do you carry this momentum over into the weekend this afternoon?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, for sure.  I think it's cool to kind of, for us guys that played in the afternoon yesterday, to be out here already and played a few holes.  So hopefully I can use that to my advantage as we tee it up in the third round, which is for me probably in another six or seven hours, I don't know how long.  But hopefully I can use some of that experience that I just played earlier this morning to my advantage.
Q. What are you going to do on your down time?
TONY FINAU: Probably just chill, take a nap, head back to the hotel and just hang out.  Not too much to do, really.  Get something to eat and then just go through my normal routine when the time comes for whenever my tee time is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT