PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2015
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Take us through the back nine some of the highs of having your name up there to seeing a lot of guys pass you.
TONY FINAU: I don't really leaderboard watch.  So I don't know what transpired.  But I didn't finish the way I wanted to for sure.  I played a really solid round of golf and, yeah, just, really, if I just made that putt on 18, I feel really good about it.  And just barely pulled it and it lipped out.
But I felt like I was pretty patient, and to be in this position, I feel really confident, really good about my game, we'll see if we can get back out there tomorrow and shoot a better score.
Q. How early did you get here today?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I woke up, it was one of the earliest times I ever woke up, 4 o'clock.  I was out here at 5:15 working with my chiro a little bit and then had to tee off by 7, which we were in the vans at 6:40 to shuttle out to 5.  It was an early day but I got a nap and I felt fine, I felt great.
Q. What about the back nine, was it you, did you feel, was it the course, anything that maybe crossed you up down the stretch?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I missed a couple of easy tee shots.  On 13, I bogeyed 13, really simple hole, 400 yards, straight down wind.  Just got to put something in the fairway to give yourself a good look and I wasn't able to do that.  So I made bogey there.
And then really 17 and 18, they're tough holes.  I bogeyed both of them, but I think there's going to be a lot of bogeys made on those holes, whatever situation you're in.
So, I'm not too down about that.  I feel good about what I did out there today and hopefully just build on that tomorrow.
Q. Are you kind of more comfortable being in the background with a chance to chase tomorrow?  Do you like your position going into the final round?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, again, I feel like if I just drop that putt on 18, then I do feel like I'm still in the thick of it.  I don't know how Jason is going to finish, he's not done yet.  But at the moment I'm five back and that's, for me, that's still in contention.  So, we'll see what we can do tomorrow.  But I feel good about what I did today, it was a rough finish, but I hung in there and was pretty confident with what I'm doing.
Q. Jabari Parker is your cousin, has he walked with you this week?
TONY FINAU: He hasn't been out here, but his sisters and mom have been following me around this week, so that's been pretty cool.  It's the first time I got to spend a little time with his family.  So, I don't know if he's watching or not, but it's pretty cool to have his family out here and are have that kind of connection to Milwaukee, that's been pretty cool.
Q. You made your pro debut at Milwaukee.
TONY FINAU: Yeah, at the U.S. Bank Open at Brown Deer in Milwaukee.  That's my first PGA TOUR event I ever played.  So, a lot of the people out there are yelling at me, yelling out, "GMO."  Greater Milwaukee Open.  So that's pretty cool to have kind of that fan base still following me around.
Q. Did you have a good karma coming into the week, both because of that and the way you were playing?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I like the golf course.  I think it sets up good for somebody that can put the ball in the air 300 yards.  So, four par-5s, that's always helpful.  So, yeah, I liked it, but I put myself in a great position today and I was right in the thick of it, and a little bit disappointed with the way I finished, but you never know what can happen tomorrow, if you I go shoot another good one, anything can happen.
Q. You were long on 18.  Was it a good lie and were you disappointed with the second shot that kind didn't back up to the pin?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I thought I hit a really good shot.  It was a really good number for my pitching wedge.  It was 148 cover and 55 hole, which is right where I hit my wedge, about 140, 149.  So a little helping wind, I hit a really good shot and unfortunately it landed on the upslope instead of really a foot further, or a foot and a half further and it bounces down pretty close to the hole.  So you're going to get good bounces and bad bounces, you just got to deal with it and I wasn't able to get that up-and-down, unfortunately, but I look forward to tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT