PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2015
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you got three birdies in a row there early on to start the day, three of the first four holes.  Did that really help set the tone for you today?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, for sure.  I got a couple breaks early and I was able to capitalize on them with my putter.  So, to make some birdies early, it definitely set the tone for moving forward in the tournament and the round, just to get something going.   
 Q.  That eagle on 16.  Take me through that.  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it was great.  The wind was down off the right.  I hit a 3-wood off the tee.  The farther you hit, it narrows, the fairway narrows.  So it was 3-wood, 5-iron.  So, I hit a really good shot, I hit two really good shots for an eagle from about 15 feet.  I was able to hole it.  So I played the hole perfectly today.  And with the wind, I think a lot of guys are taking advantage of it.  So it was nice to make a three there.   
 Q.  How was the course setup today and how did the weather affect today versus yesterday morning?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it was a bit windy from what we played yesterday, so a little bit of thinking.  But I think the back nine some of the holes coming in weren't as tough, so we were able to take advantage of them a little bit more and I think my scores kind of showed that.  I don't know how it's playing relative to the field, the back nine, but I did feel like the coming in stretch was a little bit easier because some of the finishing holes weren't as much into the wind.   
 Q.  Now what do you do the rest of the night tonight?  How do you mentally prepare for tomorrow?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, just relax.  I'm pretty laid back.  There's not -- nothing to over-think.  I'm hitting it pretty nice and the putter feels good in my hands.   
So, I'll look forward to getting back out and finishing up.  I think I got four and a half holes to go.  So hopefully can finish off a good round and then get ready for the weekend.   
 Q.  You seem pretty laid back.  Is that just your personality in general?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it is.  I try not to sweat the small things.  I feel fortunate to be out here and play and just participate in the event and I'm having a nice go, so hopefully I can keep that up.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT