SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 19, 2014
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You walk off of 13 green with a par.   I'm guessing at that moment you're not thinking an hour later you're going to be the clubhouse leader.   
TONY FINAU:   No, you know, really to be honest with you I wasn't thinking that far ahead, but I knew I needed a good finish.   Putts haven't been dropping, things haven't been going my way the last couple days, but I stayed patient, and that's what we talked about.   I knew we could go on a run with a drivable 15th and I knew I could reach 16 in two pretty easily.   I stayed as patient as I could, and finally 14 I had a putt drop, and that just kind of changed everything.   I was able to drive 15 and birdie 16 and 17, as well.  
   
 Q.   That's a really, really good birdie at the 17th hole.   
TONY FINAU:   Thank you.   That was huge.   I made a really good swing, trusted what I've been doing all week, and it worked there, and I made a nice 20‑footer for birdie.  
   
 Q.   Kind of strange numbers for you, six fairways but 16 greens and 32 putts.   Now, those 32 putts reflected hitting 16 greens, still gave yourself a chance.   
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, I did.   I gave myself a great chance the last two days.   I didn't really make any putts, but overall I'm really pleased with where my game is at and where I was able to finish today.  
   
 Q.   What was going through your mind after the triple yesterday?   You made a good bounce back there to get yourself in this position.   
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, after that triple, I just knew there was birdies to be made.   There was a lot of golf to be played still, and that's kind of person I am, the kind of player I am anyway.   I made a mistake, and you react to it at the time, but overall I knew there was still plenty of golf.   It wasn't like it was the 71st hole or anything.   At least I had some holes to make up and a full round today to cover for that.   I was able to do that.   
   
 Q.   What's the reaction of the start to the rookie season, two good finishes now?  
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, two solid finishes.   You know, like I said, I'm pretty happy with where I'm at, where my game is at, and starting to get my feet wet on the highest level of golf, and that's great for me.   A couple nice finishes are going to be huge for my confidence throughout my whole career.  
   
 Q.   Did you stay patient out there?  
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, pretty much.   I don't know that I was really waiting for them.   It would have been nice to be a couple under or 3‑under to really do something special, but I definitely just stayed patient.   I gave myself a lot of opportunities, and putts just weren't falling, and then hit a couple of errant shots, namely on 13, just to not even hit the green in two, but sometimes that's how this game is, and it's nice to finish the way I did today and also yesterday.   Yesterday I birdied three out of the last four and today I birdied four out of the last five, so that's huge, to close out a tournament like that, and I'm really happy with where I'm at.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT