SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 17, 2014
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great playing through 36 holes.   This golf course, a lot of people thought that your long would be an advantage this week, yet you found something you like with this property. 
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, it's pretty good, par‑5s I can use my length and take advantage, even though there's only three of them.   If I'm keeping the ball in play I think on the par‑5s, they turn into par‑4s.   It's been a good goal thus far, and looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   You've got your swing coach on the bag this weekend.   I know a lot of it has to do with his familiarity with this golf course.   Has he helped you around this place a little bit more?
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, definitely.   He's done a great job just getting me comfortable out there, and like you said, he has experience on this golf course, so I feel comfortable putting him on the bag this week.

Q.   Six less putts today than yesterday.   Was that a product of having fresh greens this morning, or did you figure them out a little bit more?
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, a little bit of both.   I got more familiar with the speed, which is nice, and just as important I was putting it on line.   It was nice to see some fall early, and just kind of kept the momentum throughout the round.

Q.   How do you feel about your game as we get into the weekend? 
TONY FINAU:   I feel good.   You know, game plan is the same.   I'm hitting it good, putting it pretty well, so looking forward to the weekend.   It's a spot I'm not real familiar with on the PGA TOUR level, but on the Web.com TOUR I was able to be pretty successful, so we'll see how it goes this weekend. 

Q.   Is that Boyd Summerhays?
TONY FINAU:   Yes.

Q.   So he's not your regular guy, right?
TONY FINAU:   No.

Q.   He's a one‑week deal?
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, just a one‑week deal.

Q.   Was it because of the golf course stuff or just a timing thing?
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, a little bit of both.   I had him out here early in the week and we did some work, and he's familiar with the golf course.   He caddied for me at the Big Break Invitational just a couple weeks ago at Reynolds Plantation.   He did some good work there, and I just figured I'd throw him on the bag this week.

Q.   What's his relationship to Daniel?
TONY FINAU:   That's Daniel's older brother.

Q.   How long has he coached you?
TONY FINAU:   He's been my swing coach for six months.   I've known him for pretty much my whole career, growing up watching him play Utah junior golf throughout the ranks, so he's someone I look up to and now he's on my identify. 

Q.   Everyone always talks about you're a big hitter, but I think you've made like 20 of your last 21 cuts.   Did you learn to be consistent over the time being professional?   Is there something you've done to become a more consistent player, too?
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, just everything.   I knew I had a lot of talent, but I needed to learn how to hone that in and play golf.   I feel like I've done a good job of that these last couple years, and the product of that is just finishes kind of take care of themselves.   I like what I've done with my game, moving forward.

Q.   We're only six rounds into your PGA TOUR career, but it's been a good start.   How has the transition felt from the Web.com TOUR to here?
TONY FINAU:   Pretty good.   I think the wrap‑around season is huge for us Web.com TOUR guys.   It didn't take very long to get back on a horse and keep playing.   It used to be you'd go from I think August and you don't play until Sony Open, which is in January.   I felt competitively pretty fresh, and I think it showed just these first couple tournaments so far. 

Q.   What have you and Boyd worked on?
TONY FINAU:   Just alignment, just basic alignment stuff.

Q.   Where were you aligned improperly before?
TONY FINAU:   Well, in short, if you're trying to hit a cut, you shouldn't aim right, you try to aim left, so that's basically it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT