THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
July 18, 2020
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. How would you assess the round?
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, it was good, and then it wasn't good.  Ran into some speed bumps on the back nine.  Man, this golf course can get you in a heartbeat.  You just try and put your best foot forward every hole, every shot and try and play as well as you can.  The greens are firm.  There's enough wind up there to think about.  They're fast.  A little disappointed in my finish, but look, I'm in a good position going into tomorrow, and it's going to be tough tomorrow.  I've seen the forecast.  It's going to blow.  Greens are really tough, so you know, I'm probably pretty fortunate to be within a few shots after today.
Q. When you left the 11th green, what was your mentality, and as you left the 12th green it was probably a little different?
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, nothing changed, really.  I looked at the scoreboard and I knew I had a four-shot lead at the time.  Man, I had a tough number on 12.  It was just a tweener, decided to go with the long one.  The wind should have been hurting off the left and barely pulled it but it went a lot further than I thought it was going to, and it was death back there.  I would have been happy to walk off with a 4.  Unfortunately made a 5, and things can change fast in the blink of an eye in a golf tournament.  It definitely changed there.
But still tried to play some good golf coming in.  Another little slip-up on 17 --
Q. You kind of addressed how difficult it was out there.  When you look at what Jon did today at 4-under, what does that tell you, the kind of golf he's playing right now?
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, impressive round of golf.  I played with him the first two days so I know he's hitting it good and capable of playing well in any conditions.  He's a player.  I've got a four-shot deficit that I'm going to try to make up tomorrow in the wind, and I think it's doable.
Q. What did you see out of him the last two days?  What are you seeing?  Anything jumping out at you particularly?  He has not had success here just the one time he played.  He didn't play that well last week but seemed to find something on Sunday, I think.
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, I mean, he's a world-class player.  I don't think he's that far off ever.  Sometimes I think he plays golf course that he doesn't score, and sometimes he does.  Obviously he's playing well this week, and he'll be the guy to catch tomorrow.
Q. (Indiscernible).
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, no doubt.  We had a little bit of flash backs to Shinnecock while we were out there.  That's how firm and fast the greens were.  It's been a while since we played these type of conditions, but I love it.  Firm and fast makes it tough, and all parts of your game have got to be clicking, and I think that's a true testament to how Jack wants it to play this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT