THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
July 16, 2020
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. You birdied four of your last five holes, 6-under par.  How would you characterize your round?
TONY FINAU:   I felt good.  I played nicely.  I think I scored it about as good as I could.  Got some good breaks early on my back nine, mainly No. 11.  I hit it left of the hazard, was able to get a clear lay-up there.  I hit a second shot that landed on a sprinkler head and it jumped up next to the green and was able to make a 4 there, so a couple good breaks to make birdie there and was on my way to a good round.
I think on a golf course like this in these conditions, it really forces you to think about every shot and stay in the present, and that's what I was able to do today and score the golf ball.
Q. How difficult were the conditions out there?
TONY FINAU:   They were tough.  Fast greens, tough pin locations, and then the wind.  You've got to deal with the wind.  Whenever you're thinking about wind on a putt, you know it's pretty tough.  That was definitely the case out there today.
Q. Is it almost maybe an advantage the fact that you didn't play last week in the softer, easier conditions, to play this week and be used to normal kind of Memorial conditions?
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, I don't know about an advantage, but I definitely felt like I played this golf course this way before, and so just fresh off of that.  I don't know what the numbers might be as far as the guys that played last week compared to this week.  I've played this golf course in these type of conditions, and it definitely helped me.
Q. What have you seen in your game since you came back from the break, maybe a little indifferent results, but what have you seen?  Are you happy with the progression of your game?
TONY FINAU:   Yeah, I think this is a big step, just getting off to a better start than I have in most tournaments.  I've actually played some pretty solid golf through my first few events, just haven't really put it all together for a whole tournament, and hopefully I can change that this week.  Off to a great start already, and we've got three more rounds to go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT