THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2020
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about everything that's gone on in the last 24 hours.
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it's quite strange. I think that's probably the only words I can come up with. A lot of weird things going on. A lot of uncertainty. But the commissioner made the right call. With our nation in this health epidemic, it was the right call. Health in front of everything else. There's so many uncertain things, I think things in the air, that we can't put a number on, but what's the value of one life, and that's what we're dealing with.
It was the right call to make, and I support the TOUR's decision and moving forward.
Q. Your first reaction when you heard the Masters was postponed?
TONY FINAU: It was quite crazy. There's a lot of crazy things going on on social media. You know, the world is going to end; obviously we feel like that at this point in the golf community with the Masters being postponed. I don't know that that's ever happened before. But I'm happy that it didn't say it was canceled. So hopefully we play in the future. But for now I'm happy -- my family is not here with me, so I'm happy to go back home and just understand -- and just like everybody else, there's a lot of questions. I don't know anything about it. I'm not a doctor. But I know that if people's lives are in danger, then we have to take the measures as humanity to take care of that, and that's at the forefront of -- should be at the forefront of everybody's mind.
Q. Is it kind of surreal with everything that's gone on the last two days?
TONY FINAU: No doubt, really surreal. We're all experiencing it together, and hopefully as a golf community and as humanity, we can come together and just support each other, those who need it, and we have to take care of ourselves health-wise. I have parents, I have grandparents, and we have to make sure that they're going to be okay. First things first, wash hands, all the basic things we know growing up. Again, I'm just happy that the call was made. I can travel back to my family and deal with them in this time of uncertainty.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT