WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2020
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know it's tough to talk right now, but 2-up with a couple to go. Hey, Webb came after you. He made some birdies, tied it up, and I thought you had two great looks at 18 that just wouldn't go.
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I hit good putts. You know, the first one I hit really good, I thought I made. It would have been nice. It just slid past the hole. Second one, similar line, a little bit further, decided to play a little bit more break and it didn't break this time, so hat's off to Webb. A couple birdies coming home and if you're going to get beat that's how it should happen. I definitely didn't give him the tournament. He took the lead from me early and I got it late, but unfortunately, it's how the cookie crumbles today. And it's bitter week as I look back on it. But man, lots of stuff to be learned. And I love Webb. I think the camaraderie that I have with him as being one of my best friends out here, it's, it would have been hard for either one of us to take this victory from each other. He got the upper hand this time, but I love that guy, and that's one hell of a finish. If you're going to birdie 18 a couple times you're probably going to win.
Q. You went from leader to chaser, up 2 with a couple to go. Describe the range of emotions on the back nine and in the playoff?
TONY FINAU: It was crazy. I knew I had to be patient, no matter what. I was going to have a chance to win coming down the stretch if I just kept plugging along. And it was a little tough out there, really firm. Back nine, I thought it was hard to get really close on a lot of those holes. And I mean, I played nicely, coming down the stretch I had some looks. 15, 16, 18, I had some looks to win the golf tournament and they didn't go my way today. So that's how the cookie crumbles and I'll be back on the horse and ready to go again in a couple weeks.
Q. You were in control most of the day. What would you say was the turning point where the tournament started to slip away?
TONY FINAU: Man, no real turning point. Even with a couple shot lead going into 16, I knew I probably still needed to make at least a birdie or two to kind of separate myself. And Webb did what he had to do. He birdied 17 and 18 and ended up birdieing the playoff hole. He's a great champion and hat's off to him. I'm a huge fan. He's one of my best friends out here and I love that guy.
Q. While this stings now, what can you learn from this going forward?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, just learn my game's in a great place early in the season. I feel good. I had a chance, a great chance to win this week. Unfortunately, it didn't happen, but my game's better than it's ever been. I have more confidence than I've ever had. And again, if you know anything about me, I'll persevere through anything. If you want to say this is a stumbling block or whatever it is, to chase this next one, but I'll knock it off soon and will be on my way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT