THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 14, 2019
Tony Finau
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Seeing what was on the board, how massive was that half-point you just earned?
TONY FINAU: It was gigantic. We had all the momentum on 15. Kuch and I both, just unforced error and they got away with one there, so the
momentum kind of switched. Quite pleased with a halve. Coming down the stretch there. Made a couple clutch putts. Huge points for our team. Seemed pretty scarce early. You never know how it's going to come out but I'm happy to put a point on the board.
Q. We hear about guys ham-and-egging it. How did you get to this 18 green and earn that half-point?
MATT KUCHAR: We both played some great golf. I've got to give so much credit to Tony. What a stud; what he did coming in, just all day, was steady.
Both of us played some great golf. I was heartbroken, the wind came out of my sails there missing the putt on 15, and for Tony to birdie 17 and 18 like he did. I watched this guy last week at Hero, struggled that first day putting and spent, I can't tell you, the work ethic, desire to improve, spent hour on hour until the sun went down and he's still out there. That hard work came through. What he did coming in was incredible to see and I'm proud to be partnered with him.
Q. What does it say about what's inside you to try to come out here and perform on this type of stage?
TONY FINAU: Well, it's inside both of us. Like Kuch said, I think we made a great team today. I think we played some incredible golf. I don't know how many birdies we made between the two teams, but they are tough to beat. Kuch made some par saves that got me going, and I was able to make a couple coming in to cover him. We make a nice team and we're looking forward to the afternoon match.
Q. Earlier in the match, you had fun with the fans and they did a little Australian football refereeing. Did you know you were going to do it at some point today?
MATT KUCHAR: You never know. You never know. I'm a big fan of Melbourne Australia. They are just such a great sporting capital. I had an old Australian capital by the name of Bussy, and he took me down when we were on honeymoon; we did some Aussie Rules, cricket, went to the Melbourne Cup horse race, and to be able to throw in a little Aussie footies celebration score was a fun celebration.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT