ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2019
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How is it here at the Dunhill links?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it's great to be back. I came here last year for the first time and enjoyed it so much that I'm back.
Q. You've played a bit on The European Tour this season. How have you been enjoying that?
TONY FINAU: It's been great. The people have been great. It's nice to get away from the states and experience some different golf courses, culture, people. It's been a lot of fun for me.
Q. Slightly different feel to this tournament. What do you make of the format here? How much do you enjoy it?
TONY FINAU: I enjoy it a lot. It's relatable to our AT&T Pebble Beach back in the States. I really like this event. After coming last year, the golf courses are hard to beat. As long as the conditions stay okay, I really enjoy my time here.
Q. If you had to pick one of the three courses, which would be your favourite and why?
TONY FINAU: Kingsbarns is my favourite. It's my favourite links course in the world after playing it last year. I couldn't believe how good the views were and how good the golf course was. I would definitely have to say Kingsbarns. I would have to go Carnoustie and then St. Andrews. I love St. Andrews, but if I was going off pure setup, I would go with those three.
Q. Pretty exciting group tomorrow?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, we've got a good one, J.T. and jr. Play a lot of golf with jr. Never played with Justin Timberlake. That will be a cool thing for me. I'm a huge In Sync fan growing up. It's going to be fun to get to know him better and his golf game.
Q. The prospect of being in contention at St. Andrews on a Sunday, how does that make you feel?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, there's nothing like it. I had a little bit of taste last year, within a handful of shots coming down the stretch. Hopefully I can be closer leading this year, but any time you're in contention at the Old Course at St. Andrews, the Home of Golf, there's a certain feeling that goes with that. You know, you're kind of like on holy golf ground, which is something that's pretty cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT