BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CLARE BODEL: Tony, welcome to Wentworth. Your first time playing this event. What have you made of your week so far.   
TONY FINAU: Yeah, thanks, Clare. It's been great. The weather's been beautiful. Great golf course. Great venue. Yeah, it's been great being back on this side of the pond. Last time I was out here, out this way, I think here in England, was Royal Birkdale. So it's been a few years. But it's nice to be back.   
CLARE BODEL: Obviously the last time you played on The European Tour was in Scotland last year, a bit colder there. What have you heard about this tournament? Obviously a few of your compatriots have played here in the past, first time for you but what have you heard?   
TONY FINAU: I've heard nothing but great things about this golf tournament, about the event, about the golf course. A lot of our guys enjoy coming to this tournament specifically. As I asked around, and as I was planning on adding a couple of European Tour events to my schedule, this was one that I felt like was necessary with all the feedback I got from the American guys. I can see why.   
You can never count on the weather, but the fact that the weather is going to be great this week is a bonus. The golf course is in great condition, and a very American-type golf course, very traditional, and grass that I'm familiar with. So all those things are nice for me, for my first time here.   
 Q.  Why did you feel like you wanted to add European Tour events?  
TONY FINAU: I feel like I have world-class game, and the way to prove that to yourself is to travel the world and play. I've always felt that way.   
I've competed well in Open Championships, and I've had -- early in my career, I had an opportunity to play in a couple European Tour events and I've always known that I wanted to come back and compete against world-class players on different type of golf courses, but it's a pretty cool thing that we do for a living. I get to travel and I get to play golf courses around the world, and compete at the highest level.   
So for me, all the combination of all those things; if you're truly a world-class player, I feel like you've got to win all around the world on different types of golf courses, and then I get to experience different cultures and travel to different places.   
So a combination of all those things, I feel like are a reason why I wanted to add some European Tour events and maybe eventually even some other tours to my resumé.   
 Q.  Is there a course in America that this reminds you of --  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think just generally, as I walked around, when I'm outside the golf course, I feel like I'm not in the US but when I'm on the golf course, I feel like I'm on a golf course in the States.   
There sent one that comes to mind specifically, but just generally, I feel like we have a lot of traditional golf courses in the States, mostly traditional, tree-lined, very similar to here and how this golf course is set up. There's not one that comes to mind that I can compare it to, but it's a great venue. It's tough if you don't hit it on line and you can score if you do, so you know, those are -- those are qualities in a great golf course, and I think it's going to be a great test this week.   
 Q.  Have you been to England before, and if you haven't, what are your first impressions of the country?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I was here for Birkdale in 2017, so that was my first visit to England, so this is my second. But I enjoy visiting different places, and it's been a treat. I brought my wife here this week. She's obviously wanted to visit London for -- since she can remember. A lot of movies were made out this way. A lot of -- you know, with the Queen and just the royalty that's here, it's all things that she wanted to see firsthand. To bring my wife here is a cool treat for us. We visited London on Monday, went to a show, had a great dinner in town. It's been really cool to be here.   
This is my true first visit to London, not to England, but to London, and it's been quite a treat. You know, we're still pretty early in the week, so it's been pretty fun.   
 Q.  What's the show you went to?  
TONY FINAU: We went to Mama Mia, yeah. Really energetic and fun show. It was pretty amazing, honestly. It was a two-and-a-half-hour show, and I was excited the whole 2 1/2 hours. I was entertained the whole time. No weary eyes between me and my wife. It was pretty fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT