TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2019
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You just finished up your 2019 season; can you summarize it for us?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I feel pretty good right now. I just birdied the last hole. That's the first time I did that this week. 18 hasn't been very nice to me, so I feel pretty good right now. But I mean, as I review the year, it's been a good year, a little disappointing. I was looking to win this year. I felt like my game was ready going into the season after some Ryder Cup experience, and had a few close calls. But as I look back on the year, perspective is everything for me. I'm in a great position, put myself in a great position to win golf tournaments this next season and in years to come. So the experience is going to pay off eventually, and I think I just have to stay patient.
Q. I know it's probably hard to put your finger on it, but are you going to just rely on that experience and stay patient and let it happen?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think I'll review the year and see where I just need to get better. I feel like I've gotten better every year. I understand more about myself and my game, and that's all I'm trying to compare myself to. It's easy to look at other guys and see how many guys are winning and how many times they're winning, but I have to look at and analyze myself and see where I need to get better. Each year, I seem to get more comfortable out here. Again, I understand more about my game and my golf swing, and if I feel like I'm getting better, then I am, and I know the results will continue to come.
Q. Give us your thoughts on the new playoff format.
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think it's a little strange. I don't mind that it's very easy to keep track of, and I do think that's biggest reason for it. But yeah, I think just coming in, for me, playing as well as I have leading up to this tournament, I had only a few-shot lead on the guys that just barely got in here, and then I'm seven back against the guys that have already played the best all year. I think there's a -- I don't know what the answer is.
I think this was a good start. They're trying some different things. But as an elite tournament, it's hard to already be behind the 8-ball, seven shots back for me with 72 holes to go. Not that you can't make that up, but I was going to have to play some extremely good golf if I was going to win the FedExCup this week. And you have to do that anyway, but in a 72-hole span, I like when everybody is starting at even par.
Q. As the fall approaches, I know you're probably going to take some time off. What's your schedule looking like this fall?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I don't know my full schedule, but I'm going to play enough. Hopefully --
Q. You almost have to, don't you?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I do, especially with the FedExCup. One of my goals was to get on the Presidents Cup team, so I want to make sure Tiger knows that I'm playing and I'm playing well and I'm going to be ready to go in December. There's a couple reasons I'm going to play enough to make sure I have enough FedExCup points and then just make sure that Tiger knows I would be ready to play in December.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT