THE 148TH OPEN
July 19, 2019
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk to us about your round today, please.
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I played -- I bogeyed the first hole.  Not the start I was looking for.  But I held it together nicely and made some birdies before the turn.  And then I made that birdie on 12.  I thought that was a big birdie, big fairway to hit there.  Hit the fairway on 12.  I think for the longer guys that's like a par-4.  So that's nice.
And the wind as we got to 13 kind of switched and we started playing all those holes into the wind so that got tougher and a couple of bogeys coming in.
Overall I was happy with the way I played.  You never want to finish with a bogey, but as I look at the overall 36 holes, I thought I played pretty good.
Q. How difficult is that rough on the right of 18?
TONY FINAU: Yes, it's thick, no doubt.  I was very fortunate to find my ball there.  Whoever the kid that found it, I probably owe a glove or ball or something.  I could barely see it standing over it how many times.  Extremely thick.  I think seven or eight out of ten times you're not going to find the ball there over on the right side.
So luckily for me I was fortunate enough.  I made a 5 but if there was such thing as a good 5, that was probably it.
Q. When it comes to other bits of rough, is that the worst you've seen out there?
TONY FINAU: That's about as thick as it gets.  Other areas are more spotty.  You're going to have patches.  There's no patches there, it's all thick rough.  The chance of finding your ball is not very high.  We're going to stay away from there the next two rounds.
Q. How are you heading into the weekend?
TONY FINAU: I feel good.  I played some good golf.  I hit it nicely.  If I can make some putts early and try to get the boat rowing, it would be nice.  I probably need a low one on the weekend to put myself in a great position.
But I'm in a good position with 36 holes to go.
Q. Do you feel that means you're going to try to push and attack the course a little bit more to get that number?
TONY FINAU: I'm playing nicely.  I can score on it.  I have to make some more putts.  I have scoring clubs in my hands on the holes that you need to score on.  And I've driven it well enough.
I think the game plan is there.  Scoring comes down to the chipping and putting.  And if I can do that well on the weekend I have a chance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT