PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2019
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is there a number to be had out there this afternoon?
TONY FINAU: Yeah.  I think the golf course is soft.  There's a few pins towards the end where if the guys hit the fairway, you can make some birdies.  I got there in two on the 13 today.  So as long as the wind doesn't do a full 360, guys are going to be getting there.  So there's some holes I feel like on the back that you can score on.  But it's a golf course you have to hit the fairway, just like anything else.
Q. Not only did you put on, you put it close.  What'd you hit, driver?
TONY FINAU: I hit 4-wood, which is my next club after my driver.  I knew I had to hit it hard.  So once I hit it solid, you know, just kind of going middle of the green and the wind hit it towards the fly, I was like, oh, it's got a good chance to be good.
Q. It's one of those things that's just so hard to score out here?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it is.  I just haven't hit enough fairways to give myself any kind of opportunity and chance this week.  So I was really happy just to gut out the score I did today, and I'll be looking to try to shoot a low one tomorrow.
Q. When it gets like this, do you have an even bigger appreciation for (indiscernible) to be able to go as low as Brooks has?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, for sure.  You know, I've been talking to my friends about it and my coach and my caddie, this is not a golf course where in the practice rounds I would have told you anybody's breaking any kind of record.  This is a U.S. Open -- seemed like a U.S. Open setup.  And outside of Brooks, the scores have been U.S. Open-ish.  So it tells you how extremely impressive he's played the first couple days.  And having been his partner, I know he's got that attitude to try to increase that lead.
Q. Obviously there's a FedEx event here in a couple years, but five years from now, Ryder Cup, kind of possibilities are there for this place?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I mean, they can set it up any way they want.  But I think it's going to be an incredible venue.  More so the fans have been great.  They've been great for me this week.  I feel like I'm playing like a home event, which is really cool.  But I think the fans are going to bring something to the table.  And New York fans are some of the best in the world.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT