MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2019
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about your whole experience today out there. It was a crazy day all over?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it was. It was pretty much everything I expected. The crowds were going crazy for Tiger. And I battled until‑‑ we had the door open on 12. That was the change of the tournament. Francesco hit it in the water. I knew‑‑ I knew‑‑ I just needed to hit it on land. I needed to put it in the bunker and just barely hit it chunky and it kind of rolls on me. And the line was okay. I thought I still had a chance to maybe fly on the green, and unfortunately it didn't. But not my best swing and it ended up costing me the‑‑ coming down the stretchy knew it cost me. I hit a 9‑iron 165 yards, perfect club in there, just a little chip cut 9. Tiger hit the green, I didn't. And he took that two shot lead on me all the way through coming in.   
But cool to be a part of history, as far as being there up close and congratulations on Tiger for his 15th major.  
   
 Q. Did you think it was a trickier hole than normal?  
TONY FINAU: No, I think we knew where the wind was. But most of it, I think, we knew it was a chip, we either had a hit an 8‑iron, like a super chip 8‑iron or just a solid 9‑iron. I'm pretty sure I saw Brooks and Ian, they probably hit a 9‑iron and hit it exactly where I hit it. Francesco hit an 8‑iron but it's just a tricky number. The number, I think, was right in between all of our clubs. I hit my 9‑iron right at about 158 yards. It was a 160 yard shot. If I hit an 8‑iron, a 175 yard club, I have to choke it and cut it. It's just a tough shot. Even Tiger hit it exactly where he was looking and he was 45 feet from the hole. It's a tough hole and when you're playing into the wind and under the conditions we were in it's a hard shot.   
   
 Q. What is it about this place you like so much?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, you hit the driver with some length you've got a huge advantage here. I just feel that way, when I'm driving the ball well, which I did this week, I know I'm going to have a chance to win here many years to come. To me it's exciting and I know I'm going to come back next year. 10th last year, 5th this year, and keep that string going and maybe one next year.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
TONY FINAU: You can't beat the experience. It's something you can't pay for. When you're someone like me in my shoes still trying to come up, still trying to win majors, still trying to contend, you can't beat playing with the best player in the world, the best that's ever done it and just see if you can get the job done is cool. I wanted to get the job done today but Tiger is great for the game and again, unbelievable that he's winning his 15th major today.  
   
 Q. Talk about how you felt as you were out there walking.   
TONY FINAU: I felt great. I did. I didn't hit the driver as well today as I did the last few days. So it ended up costing me‑‑ I had to kind of scramble my way around, but I felt like for the most part I did what I needed to do. When I was on the 12th tee I knew that was the tournament. 12, 13, that little stretch there I knew was the tournament. And unfortunately I dumped it in the water. And could have cost me my first major. But it is what it is.  
   
 Q. Do you think you're battle tested for the next one?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, no doubt. It's a confidence builder for me. I haven't played my best golf this year. This is the best golf I've played all year. I love major championships. I love the big stage. And I proved to myself that I can compete at a high level again on this stage. And we've got three majors still to come and my attention will be turned to the next time I play.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT