WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Birdies on 15 and 16 got you to the end of a tough match with a tough player.
TONY FINAU: Yeah, 14 was the match, to be honest.  I made about a 15-footer for par just to tie the hole and not go 1-down with four to go.  To me those little putts, those are the momentum-changing putts you have to make, to beat tough players, and when you're in a tough match like that.  To me it was 14 and I played solid golf coming in.  Once I had the lead on 15, I put myself in position to just put a lot of pressure on him to score down the stretch.
It was a hell of a match.  My heart rate is a little too high for Wednesday, I'm not used to it being that high, but it was a hell of a match.
Q. You have to know, just seeing the way Keith has played in the last month or so, he's a good player to begin with, but he's also a hot player.  And you have to know Wednesday you've got to have your game on from the get-go?
TONY FINAU: Anybody out here.  But especially Keith having won in the last month.  I knew none of the matches was going to be easy, but I knew it was going to be a tough match.  He made all the putts he needed to make.  Whether it was to tie, putts for birdie, I expected him to make he made.  It was a hell of a match and I look forward to the rest of the week for me.
Q. How much does your experience in France help you this week?  How much do you draw from some of those putts?  You mentioned heart rate on a Wednesday.
TONY FINAU: That's the last time I played match play.  So it's kind of the last tournament I can draw from.  But overall I carry more confidence than I did this time last year.  My game, my mind is in a different state.
I had a nice match today, but as we know with these things, you've got to play good every day.  And I was happy to get this one today.
Q. Do you enjoy match play?
TONY FINAU: I do.  I enjoy it, yeah.  Just going one on one, especially when guys are playing good, it's a lot of fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT