WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 27, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TONY FINAU: Really pleased just to still have the lead going into tomorrow, I feel pretty fortunate.  I've got to turn my attention to tomorrow, but the way I finished today, I was happy to finish with three birdies.   
 Q.  You've done everything this year:  You got picked for The Ryder Cup Team, you did everything but win.  Can you taste it?  
TONY FINAU: No, there's 18 holes to play.  I know there's a world-class field.  I have to keep my head down for 18 more holes and keep doing my thing.  You know, I didn't give up today and that's always my mentality, just keep fighting till the end and we'll see where the chips fall after 72 holes tomorrow.   
 Q.  That was an amazing finish, three birdies to end the round to take the 54-hole lead.  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, a lot of change of momentum towards the end.  Making that putt on 16 just got me going.  Hit a really nice shot on 17 and nice to see one go in on 18.   
I think in this game you have to learn to keep your head down and never give up and I was able to do that today and it favoured me toward the end.   
 Q.  With everything happening so fast, Justin having the lead going into 16 and things changing so quickly, how do you not get ahead of yourself there?  
TONY FINAU: I think it's all mental training.  You just take it a shot at a time and that's all you can do is focus on the present.  I did a good job of that today.  There's a lot of things that happened and a lot of guys making moves.  I know it's going to be that way.  But tried to stay focused on what I was trying to accomplish.   
Again, just happy with that finishing.  Doesn't matter what Rosey does coming down the stretch.  Making three birdies to close out a round is always a good thing and hopefully I can carry that momentum into tomorrow.   
 Q.  What are you thinking about heading into Sunday?  
TONY FINAU: Just use the experience that I have to my advantage tomorrow.  I've been close.  I've never been in this position, so this is a great position to be in, having the guys chase me down.   
It's going to be a lot of fun tomorrow, no matter what happens.  I always look at it as an opportunity, and it's definitely going to be that tomorrow with 18 holes to go.   
Happy with the way I finished today.  Great performance and hung in there the best I could and tried to stay as positive as I could.  Worked out in my favour at the end with three birdies.   
 Q.  And the tee shot down 17?  
TONY FINAU: An incredible shot.  I hit a perfect shot.  Just trying to hit a little fade towards the middle of the green and the wind took it, rolled it nicely up to a couple feet.  That's always a bonus on a hole like that where you're trying to make three and get out of there.  It was a huge bonus to make two.   
 Q.  Will you be defensive with the lead or will you attack tomorrow?  
TONY FINAU: No, attack.  You have to make birdies.  The guys are going to be after me tomorrow.  I have to do a better job early than I did today and try to limit the mistakes and have them make birdies to catch me.  That will be the goal tomorrow.  It will be a lot of fun no matter what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT