WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 27, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: We have Tony Finau in here with us.
Tony, well played to keep your three-shot lead.  How fun was it to birdie the last three holes.
TONY FINAU: It was great to birdie the last three.  It's always a nice way to finish no matter what position you're in.  I didn't have a lot going my way, kind of for the first half of the day, and Rosey was making his run.  I was just really pleased I was able to finish that way and get some momentum going into tomorrow.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: What was the mind-set for you, looking at the conditions being tough and Rosey was coming back?  What was the mind-set out there for you?
TONY FINAU: Just continue to take it a shot at a time.  I've been doing a good job of that this week.  You've got to still just stay in the present.  You can't look too far ahead, and learn just kind of from maybe some of the mistakes that I've made.
I feel like I hit a lot of good golf shots.  My speed on the greens were a little off, so you know, I missed quite a few putts because of that.
But I knew I was right there.  I was still in the golf tournament, very much in the golf tournament and if I could just finish the way I know I can, put me in good position going into tomorrow.  There was no need to panic.  Just play some good golf coming down the stretch and I was able to do that.
Q. Definitely a lot of people enjoy watching you birdieing the last three holes.  So among those three holes, which one would you choose to be the most interesting one?
TONY FINAU: They are all unique in their own way.  But I hit a beautiful golf shot on 17.  I hit a perfect shot.  It's a hard par 3.  Most guys are hitting 4- or 5-iron, and the wind off the left, and you can't miss it right.
You saw Patrick and Rosey both hit it in the hazard there.  You only have to miss it barely right of the pin and it goes in the hazard, so it's a really tricky hole.
That was my best stuff there.  I was really able to strike an iron.  Any time you can have a kick in on a hole like that, you're just trying to make a three, it's a big bonus.  For sure out of the three, that's the one that sticks out.
Q. You seem pretty chilled out to be leading this event going into tomorrow.  How do you stay so relaxed or laid back going into what is probably one of the biggest events in the world?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I feel like my attitude is like this a lot.  Never too up, never too down, at least for the most part.  It usually serves me well in this game, you know, because you get over shots faster, and I think you can move on kind of faster.  You need to do that in this game.  You need to have a short-term memory when it comes to hitting bad shots and things.
I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  18 holes, I've got a world-class field chasing after me.  This is the position you want to be in and you know, I'll be looking to close out my first tournament in this position, which is exciting for me.  Whether it happens or not, it's an experience that you learn from and you continue to move forward.
So I put myself in a great position going into tomorrow, and I'm going to have fun no matter the outcome and hopefully make a lot of birdies and have those guys have to do something special tomorrow to beat me.
Q. Can you just talk about how you've grown up?  Reading some of the stories where you've grown up, not as rich or not as privileged with a chance to play golf while you were growing up.  But have you ever imagined that you can be in such a position in one of the biggest events here in the world, the WGC now, getting into a position that might help you to be crowned as a champion at the end?  Can you talk us through that?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I always had dreams and goals to play against the best players in the world, and, you know, be one myself.
I guess you can say I have dreamed to try and be in this position.  Sometimes I do look back and think, wow, this is pretty cool to be in this position, with the upbringing that I had, just the humble upbringing that I had.
I get to play golf for a living which is really cool.  I love what I do, and to be able to compete at the highest level is something that's really special for me.  You know, it doesn't matter your upbringing.  I think it's pretty cool.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Thanks very much and all the best for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT