WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 26, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Am impressive round in some tough conditions to take the 36-hole load.  How pleased are you with how you plays?  
TONY FINAU: Really pleased.  I played nicely.  Was happy with the way I finished.  I was pleased to make a few birdies coming down the stretch.   
 Q.  You had a bad break there, dropped a few shots but you were able to recover from that?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, that was about as bad a break as I've ever had, to kick all the way over the green into the hazard.  One thing I've learned in this game, you take the good with the bad and keep moving forward.  I knew I was playing well still and still at the top of the leaderboard.  Just keep plugging along and try to get that back and I was able to do that.   
 Q.  Talk about your mind-set in these tough conditions.  How do you stay positive?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think you have to.  You have to be that way.  I feel like I'm always pretty enthusiastic whenever I play.  It serves me well and it definitely has this week.   
 Q.  With 36 holes left, how do you approach this week?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think I just stay in attack mode.  I think there's guys, a lot of great players here that are looking to chase me down.  I've got to stay in attack mode, continue to make birdies and if I limit the mistakes, I think it will be a good weekend.   
 Q.  Great 67, tough conditions.  How was that for you?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it was really good.  I played really nicely and happy with the way I finished after making a few big numbers in the middle of my round.   
 Q.  Unlucky break on 11?  
TONY FINAU: I knew I was still playing well, and overall, I knew there was still a lot of golf to be played.  You take the good with the bad in this game.  Unfortunately that was some of the bad but I was just happy to finish with some birdies to erase that bad break.   
 Q.  What's been the major positives the last few days?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think when you're leading a golf tournament like this, you're kind of doing everything well.  I've driven and hit enough fairways to score.  Making the putts when I needed to.  It's going to be a fun following 36 holes.   
 Q.  You're looking very positive going into the last 36 holes?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, 36 holes to go, it's a good position to be in when you're at the top of the leaderboard, and I have to stay aggressive and make birdies because I know the guys are going to do that on the weekend.   
 Q.  We saw your ball just bounce in the sprinkler.  Except that, you had a pretty solid round?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it was a really good round.  Outside of that, tough break.  I played really nicely.  I was happy just to make a few birdies coming down the stretch.  It's hard to swallow when you feel like you hit a good shot and you have a bad break like that.   
So I was able to just hang in there and make a few birdies at the end, which is nice.   
 Q.  Your last win is in 2016.  So how are you feeling about tomorrow?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I feel good.  I'm a lot different player than I was a couple years ago, and I look forward to whatever the weekend holds ahead.  We've got 36 holes to play.  Play some good golf.  It's an exciting position to be in no matter what the outcome is going to be.   
 Q.  Say something to the Chinese fans.  They like you very much?  
TONY FINAU: Oh, cool.  Hi, to all my fans.  Thanks for supporting me and wish me luck on the weekend.   
 Q.  You've had some Top-10s this year.  Something has limited you -- what's that?  
TONY FINAU: I've put myself in a position to win a few times.  I think I've learned from it and hopefully can use that experience on this weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT