WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 25, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under start to the tournament.  How good were you playing out there?
TONY FINAU: I played good.  It played tough I felt like, especially early the.  The wind was up on the front nine, which was the back nine.  I made a couple bombs, which was really kind of the story of the day, which kept the momentum up for me through my round.  I got off to a nice start and I was able to kind of ride that momentum throughout the round.
Q. Can you talk to us about the conditions, how tough was that?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it was tough.  It's the longest golf course I've ever played.  Only my second time back but I don't remember a lot of these holes playing nearly this long.  I hit 6-iron into 9.  I remember hitting wedge into that.  I hit 5-iron into 11 and another hole I remember hitting wedge into last year.  The dynamics of the golf course change because of how strong the wind was and the wind direction.  I'm really pleased with the way I played today.
Q. Overall, just looking ahead to tomorrow, what do you got to do to keep this up?
TONY FINAU: Just keep doing what I'm doing.  I hit a lot of fairways today, which was nice, and you have to on this golf course, especially if the wind is going to be up because the greens are not really accessible if you're hitting out of the rough.
So you know, fairways are very important and if I can roll some putts in, we'll be good to go.
Q. Nice 6-under.  How was that for you?
TONY FINAU: It was good.  It was a nice start.  I thought the golf course played pretty tough with the wind and the wind direction.  It's a direction I've never played on this golf course.  So I had some lengthy iron shots into some of these par 4s which makes it pretty tough.
Really pleased with the way I played throughout the day.
Q. Draining some long putts early on, that number nice?
TONY FINAU: That was huge.  To get off to a good start I think was important on a day like today where birdies were really tough to come by.  I made a couple bombs, which is always a bonus.
Q. Only one bogey but you bounced back quickly?
TONY FINAU: A little disappointing.  My green speed reading was good all day.  I was hitting a lot of good putts and I 3-putted No. 6, and was pretty unfortunate because I felt like I was hitting a lot of good putts.  I winded up leaving a 30-footer like eight feet short.  I was able to bounce back with a couple birdies.
Q. A couple more positives going into the week?
TONY FINAU: For sure.  Any time you see 6-under, I think it's a good thing.
Q. First time coming out to Asia for the Asian Swing, with the new FedExCup season coming up on the PGA TOUR, how important is it to get this good start and make sure you have FedExCup points to begin the new season?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think it's really important to get off to a good start.  I think mathematically, I read something where if you play well in the fall, the chances of you being at THE TOUR Championship is pretty high.  So I know you have to get off to a good start in these events.  You know, this is a good start for this week at this tournament.
Q. Just with the changes that they have made with the schedule and with the new FedExCup and for THE TOUR Championship scoring system, how excited are you about what's going to happen in 2019?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, really excited.  Hopefully you're playing good golf from like March to June next year.  That's kind of the meat of the season.  There's a lot of big events there.  But it's exciting to have all those tournaments, a lot more back-to-back than kind of spread out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT