THE RYDER CUP
September 29, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tony, sum up what today was like and how it was different from yesterday.  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, we got behind the 8-ball early.  They played really good.  When one guy was out of play, the guy that was in play was making birdie or never having anything to look at for par.  On the golf course, birdie is a good score, was a really good score on any of the holes with the wind and how narrow the fairways are.   
So they got off to a great start.  I think we weathered the storm, and I had a couple chances on 11 and 13 to get the momentum on our side, and I hit some really quality shots on our back nine, and wasn't able to convert those two on 11 and 13.  I think those two putts could have helped quite a bit.   
We rallied.  We won 14, 15 and 16.  That was a good putt for me I made on 16.  When you're 1-back, two to play and the momentum on your side, anything can happen.  So it was almost a similar thing that happened to us yesterday.  And, you know, unfortunately Sergio made a great putt, you know.  So made an incredible putt from 30 feet, and that was a match.   
But, you know, we're enthusiastic about this afternoon as a team.  Hopefully Jordan and J.T. can pull off this match, not down four points in the afternoon.  And if we flip this on them and do some good work, whether it's 3-1 in the afternoon, we're taking three points this afternoon, if we sweep them this afternoon, it's a whole different ball game.   
We're very enthusiastic about where we are, and we know there's 12 points up tomorrow, singles matches.  It's exciting.  I know we're still not halfway.  And that's what our captain's telling us:  Hey, guys, we're not even at halftime yet.  We're getting beat, but we have a lot of golf left.  Captain's sitting me this afternoon, so I'm going to get some practise, make sure I'm ready to go tomorrow, and then I'm going to go out and cheer my guys on.   
 Q.  They're going to put a press release out about your donation, your $100,000.  What are you going to use with that donation, and how is it going to further support the mission of the Tony Finau Foundation?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, we're going to breaking ground on the centre.  Yeah, that was a big announcement we made this year.  We've got the land, and we're excited about that.  So to hear that from the PGA of America to donate that straight to my donation, it's extremely cool.  I'm getting goosebumps because that's probably the biggest donation we've ever got, $100,000.  I'm really excited about that.  It's going to go to a great cause and help kids that are less privileged to have opportunities to just further their life and hopefully their dreams.   
 Q.  And what is the mission statement of the foundation overall?  
TONY FINAU: Underprivileged kids is who we support, and basically two words:  Inspire someone.  Those are our two words for our foundation, and that's all we're trying to do in the next generation.   
I don't feel anybody in the U.S. should never have, never go out with the basics necessity of life, food and clothes and drink.  And I want to make sure I start where I can, and that's where I grew up, in a place with all my friends and they didn't have basic stuff.  I just don't feel like anybody should not have that.  They're starting behind in life already.  Let's even out the playing field a little bit, and that's what my foundation is about, and that's what we try to do.  It's been great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT