THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2018
Tony Finau
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A wild match.  When was the ball when the ball hit on 16?  
TONY FINAU: We'll take the breaks where we can get them.  We needed one there.  Bounce sometimes go your way and sometimes they don't.  Fortunately for us they did on 16, able to brush that one in.   
 Q.  You were never up till the match concluded.  What were your thoughts as this match was going along and what it would take to win?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: We were talking about it when we made the turn, obviously 2-down and not where we wanted to be, so I just said one hole at a time.  Tony knew it.  Tony was playing well for his first Ryder Cup.  Coming down these last four holes, it was incredible golf, and lucky to have him as a teammate.   
 Q.  Dramatic win.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, to say the least.  We just hung in there all day.  Felt like we battled hard and were hitting good shots.  We just never felt like we had an opening till those last couple holes.  For Tony to take advantage of that break on 16 was massive.  I think that's the momentum shift that we needed coming down the last two holes.  The shots he hit off the tee on 18 was a big set up for me.  I felt like I could really go at it, and the shot he hit into 18, too, was very impressive.  That's why it's a team.   
 Q.  Tell me about the 16th hole.  Have you been practicing that shot?  
TONY FINAU: I like pulling those out when it really matters.  Sometimes you get a good kick.  Sometimes you don't.  That one was a very good kick and we needed it.  It was at the right time.  I was able to brush that one in and have the momentum be on our side.   
It was an incredible match to be a part of, and to win it with this guy -- proud of the way we hung in there.  The reason we played together is because our demeanor, we're never up; we are never down.  We fight and we never give up.  We have that attitude and I've always been that way and Brooks has always been that way.  If we didn't have that attitude, we wouldn't have been able to come back and win this match.  We were able to pull it off and it's a big win for our team.   
 Q.  First point America has ever won on a Friday morning --  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Any time you can get a point on the board, it's always special and to do it in that dramatic fashion with these last three holes, winning two of them, it's impressive.  We played some good golf coming down the stretch and that's how you want it to be.  It was exciting for us players and I can I imagine being at home.   
 Q.  How was the first tee?  
TONY FINAU: Nothing like I've been a part of in my life.  It's cool to be a part of and cool to be a part of, and cool to be a part of the first match.  We told the captain we wanted to play first and that's the reason why.  We wanted to set the tone for this Ryder Cup.   
 Q.  What you tell us about 16?  
TONY FINAU: It's the best break I've gotten.  When it meant something.  I think that one will be replayed for a long time to come.  That was a huge momentum changer for our match, and we were able to take advantage of it.  We both played 18 beautifully.  It's an incredibly hard hole.  The wind is straight in.  I hit a 5-iron in here.  I think he hit a 6-iron.  We both hit it flush down the middle of the fairway.   
It's a tough hole to finish on and I think pars are going to win that golf hole coming down the stretch.  I was happy we could do that.   
 Q.  A pretty course but not without its teeth.  Foursomes will play interesting.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Absolutely.  You've got to hit it in the fairway.  If you are not in the fairway, there's big numbers out there.  A couple, if you put it in the rough, bogey might win the hole.  If you're going to be out there during foursomes, it's going to be interesting, especially if this wind keeps up.   
 Q.  What was the club on 16?  
TONY FINAU: I hit an 8-iron.  I hit a perfect little fade but it just rolls on me.   
 Q.  And was it three feet or four feet?  
TONY FINAU: Whatever the heck it was -- three.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT