BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TONY FINAU: I enjoyed it.  I try not to really change anything.  To me I've been playing good golf all year and I don't need to put more pressures on myself than what's already there.  It's a lot easier to say than it is to do.
I'm doing my best to control all that and control the possibilities of what could happen but from what I've learned in this game, you can't look ahead.  I'm trying to just focus on now and control what I can and that's just what's going on here and right now.
So, the possibilities are cool, the potential of what could happen, but nothing is -- nothing good comes from thinking too far ahead.  I got a couple rounds in front of me, 36 holes to try and win this tournament, and winning takes care of everything.
Q. No matter what happens Monday, you have your foundation event, right, so are you in Utah no matter what?
TONY FINAU: I'll be home and in Utah.  Monday, Tuesday, we have our foundation event.  Excited about, that our fourth annual luau and golf tournament.  It's a lot of fun for me.
Q. Have you gone to France?
TONY FINAU: I went to France before the British.
Q. What did you think of the course?
TONY FINAU: It depends on the weather.  It's a golf course you can make some birdies on.  If it blows, the French Opens shows it can be really, really tough depending on how they want to set it up, depends on the wind and the weather.
Q. (Inaudible)?
TONY FINAU: I proved to myself, you know, any type of golf course I can make birdies on and compete well on.  It's a golf course that takes driver out of my hand more than I like but that doesn't mean I can't make birdies.
Q. As a Nike athlete, what do you think of the recent campaign?
TONY FINAU: Definitely stands out.  I'm proud to be a Nike athlete and be associated with them.  They've been great to me.  The feeling is pretty mutual.
As far as Kaepernick and all that is concerned, we all have freedom of speech; using it in a way that's non-violent which is something you have to respect as an American.
Q. Do you have any positive things one way or another?
TONY FINAU: Not for me.  For the company, I think Nike is the best at advertising and they're great at what they do and, you know, they came out with a campaign this they felt like is who they are and, as an athlete of theirs, again, it's not my job to agree or disagree with whatever they do.  They've been great to me and a cool partnership for me.
Q. Were you given any heads-up that that campaign was coming or you found out about it when we did?
TONY FINAU: Most people found out when you guys did, unless you were involved in the actual -- all that was going on, yeah, I heard it when you guys did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT