THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 25, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice round, 5-under 66 and you're in great position.  Nice eagle at 12, that kick-starts things on the back nine.  Thoughts on how you played?
TONY FINAU: I played really nicely.  I was driving well off the tee and I had a couple par saves early on 1 and 2 that I really needed to just get my round going and I was able to make those putts.  I think those are huge, just momentum savers, throughout the round.  So I was able to birdie 3 and get off to a nice start.
It's fun playing with Phil.  It's Darren atmosphere, pretty electric and he's a fun guy to play with.  I enjoyed the first three rounds with him.
Q. The leaderboard, the guys in the last couple groups haven't gotten anything going?
TONY FINAU: That's right, moving day, a lot of good scores early.  You know the golf course is gettable if you hit some fairways, and the greens are so good.  Some of the best greens I've putted on all year, and it seems like they are just getting faster and firmer.  So it's going to be a fun round tomorrow and I'm excited to be in the mix.
Q. How would you assess your round?
TONY FINAU: Really solid.  I played nicely.  I was able to make a couple saves early, which was huge, par save on 1 and 2 to kind of get myself going and get some momentum on my side.  It's pretty fun playing with Phil.
I've had the opportunity now for three days in a row, and the electricity playing with him is pretty cool, the fan interaction, the way he really gets involved with the fans and all that, it's cool to be part of, and definitely that momentum helped me this week.
Q. Does that help feed the way you play, bigger moments, bigger crowds?  Do you like it?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I enjoy it.  I can look back at this week, and it's fun, playing with Phil.  It's definitely a different atmosphere when you play with him because he's a crowd favorite.  You know, me growing up watching him, I was a big fan of him, as well.  It's cool to be playing with him and playing partners with him the first three rounds.
Q. How would you describe your maturation and how comfortable you are playing in these?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I feel comfortable.  I feel my game is getting better each year, just trying to get better.  I've been able to do that, and you know, it's cool this week, after the first three days, to have a chance to win a golf tournament.  It's why we practice and why we train, and just get ready for that, put our mind-set, our body in that mind-set.
I look forward to that challenge tomorrow and whatever that brings.
Q. What mentality do you have to bring to the golf course tomorrow?
TONY FINAU: Just attack.  I think I'm going to need to make some birdies.  I don't know what Bryce is going to finish at today but I'm going to be a few back going into tomorrow.  I'm going to have to score and this is a golf course I know I can do it on after today and the first few rounds, so I just look forward to that challenge tomorrow and just trying to chase him down and win a golf tournament.
Q. Are you keeping Ryder Cup in the back of your mind?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think for sure.  It's a cool position to be in to just know that maybe you're one of a few guys that he's looking at, and you know, so far in the Playoffs, it's been going my way.  I look forward to the challenge tomorrow and continue to play well throughout the Playoffs.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT