THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It seemed like you had a great ball-striking day and just the putts didn't go out today.  You had a lot of chances.
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I had a lot of good looks.  Unfortunately, it didn't go, but I love the position I'm in in a major.  Two shots back, 36 to play.  It's a golf course that you have to be patient on, and I wasn't really patient today.
I hung in there.  It would be nice to make that one on the last just to have another round in the right numbers.
But I was happy with the way I hit it.  You know, as I mentioned yesterday, sometime the good putts go in, sometimes they don't.  Today, unfortunately, they didn't go in.  It is what it is.
But honestly, to me, I did a workout this morning.  I had a weird back spasm as soon as I finished my workout about three hours before my round.  So I couldn't barely bend over.
Q. Really?
TONY FINAU: About an hour before I teed off.  So honestly, the story in my mind was -- you know, I didn't know how well I was going to be able to play or even if I was going to be able to play.  So extremely pleased with how I played given that circumstance.  Excited for the weekend.
Q. Do you always work out before rounds of golf?
TONY FINAU: If my tee time is that late.  I'm able to get a good stretch in and get a good workout.  That's what I was able to do.  Unfortunately, it didn't pay off today, but my body feels a lot better now.  Hopefully, when I wake up tomorrow, it's going to be all right.
Q. Do you know how many greens you hit today?
TONY FINAU: I don't know.
Q. It seems like you were just all of a sudden 25, 15-footers all day long.
TONY FINAU: I got a lot of looks, for sure.  When I was in trouble, I wasn't in too much trouble, so that was nice.  It had to have been quite a few.  Maybe 13 or 14 greens.  That's pretty good.
Q. What happened on the last hole, would you say?  That was not your best drive of the day over there.
TONY FINAU: I still had a chance to hit the second one on the green, but my normal shot is hit a little slider with the driver, and with the wind off the right, I've been working with the driver to try to bring it off the right this week on a couple holes, and it would be a big factor.  18 was one of them, and I just pushed it.  Honestly, I got away with it.  It was in the bunker, the front part of the bunker.  So I just had a shot to the green and just hit that one heavy.  I hit a great flop shot.  It would have been nice to make that last one.  Great position going into the weekend, which is what I'm happy about.
Q. You're still in great contention.  Obviously, like you say, being two off the lead, you're still in great contention.
TONY FINAU: Yeah.  So many things can happen on this golf course.  You just have to be there when it -- you know, when it counts and late on Sunday.  You give yourself a chance.  You know, history has shown not only on this golf course, but in this tournament, anything can happen.  So it's a major championship.  I'm happy to be in the thick of it again this week.
Q. Good job.
TONY FINAU: Thanks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT