THE 147TH OPEN
July 19, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TONY FINAU: I hit a lot of fairways.  You hit fairways out here, it's huge.  I ran into a couple bunkers that I didn't think I could reach, but the challenge -- one of the biggest challenges of the week is how firm it is.  I've never played a golf course this firm.  Even after practising, it's still amazing to me how far some of these shots are going.  So I had to adjust kind of coming down the stretch, and I was able to adjust pretty nicely.
Q. Is your shoulder okay?
TONY FINAU: Shoulder, yeah.  It was just a little itchy out there.  My right shoulder blade was itching me all day.  No, it's fine.  Just a little itchy.
Q. At one point, you looked like --
TONY FINAU: No, my shoulder was itching the heck out of me.  I don't know what was the problem.
Q. Just talk about some of those birdies.  You made with your putter.  You had some 25-footers and stuff.
TONY FINAU: I made some nice putts, especially early.  I birdied 1 and 2.
Q. How far were those?
TONY FINAU: 1 was probably 10 feet, and 2 was 15 feet.  It was nice to see the ball go in early.  It was nice.  I hit a lot of good putts.  A lot of times good putts go in, sometimes they don't.  Today I happened to make them.  I made a couple from length as well, things I didn't expect to make.  I was looking for a good 4 on 18, especially after hitting in the bunker.  I lucked out.  I got a good lie, and I had a shot to the green.  So I was happy with the shot.  I hit it pretty much where I felt like I could hit it.  That was about as far as I could hit it without bringing the lip into play.  Just looking to make par, looking to make an easy two-putt.  About five feet from the hole, I'm like, whoa, I think I made another one.  It's a great feeling when those putts are going.
Q. Your average drive is 348 yards today.  But I would imagine you didn't try to bomb it out there every hole, right?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think I hit four or five drivers.  So that's my average with my 3 iron probably.  I hit my 3 iron out here.  I hit my 3 iron, 4 iron, and 5 iron.  I pretty much wore it out today.  Exactly.  That tells you how far the ball is rolling out.  You've got to play the golf course.  You've got to think a lot and be very strategic because, if you hit it out of the bunker, you feel like it's out of play.  Like I said, I hit it in two bunkers today that I felt were out of play with the club I had in my hand, and it rolled right into the bunker.
I got to do a better job of that later in the week, but I was able to manage.
Q. Can you think of anywhere else where you've had to think as much on your first and second shots on any golf course?
TONY FINAU: Shinnecock was pretty tough.  You have to think your way around there.  A lot more woods off the tee.  I hit quite a few drivers there.  So probably not.  Yeah, probably not.  And the variety of clubs I'm hitting off the tee is pretty crazy.  You know, from driver to 8 iron off the tee today on par 4s and 5s.  So I mean, I hit an 8 iron off the tee on number 3.  An 8 iron, pitching wedge, or something like that, just to take the bunkers out of play on that a little.
So the variety you can hit off the tee, I think I've never played a golf course where you have that many options.  It makes it fun, though.  It makes it fun.  And some holes you want to send it, you can send it.
Q. How much did playing in the final group finishing fifth at Shinnecock help you moving forward?
TONY FINAU: It was a big confidence booster for me, just to know I was in the thick of it to the end was really cool.  I think a huge part -- it will be a huge part for me moving forward, especially in these big events.
You know, you guys seem to put a lot of emphasis on these type of events, and rightfully so, they're majors.  But I try not to look at them too different.  There's a lot of hype involved in all these tournaments.  You know, we play a game.  I love the game.  I enjoy the game.  If you get too stressed out in these type of tournaments, then you're going to kill yourself.  I just try to enjoy these moments and especially this type of golf, being across the pond and playing.  I don't get to play here a lot.
Playing links golf, I think I've had some success the last couple Open Championships, which has been fun, but just enjoy playing and try to have fun with it.
Q. You started off the Masters one off the lead, and you are right now.  Is it these big tournaments, you just get ready for them, or what's the difference?  Just talk about being one off the lead right now?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it's nice to be in contention again in a major, the third one this year.  Yeah, I don't -- I don't know if I could put my finger on it.  I enjoy playing in the big moments, and my game and my mind, I feel like fit championship golf and major championship golf.  It's good to have good finishes and gives me a lot of confidence and just a lot of peace to know I can play at a high level in these type of events.
Q. What was it like on the course for you today?  I know the results are satisfying, but did you feel very much at ease?  Was it a very relaxing experience?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I got off to a nice start, which is, I think, a big key, a big key to playing this golf course well.  You can get behind the 8 ball on any hole.  If you make a bogey at the start or one of the first few holes, you're kind of battling all day to try to maybe find that groove.
I was able to make eight birdies today, and I think a huge reason for that, I birdied 1 and 2, and I just kind of let the golf course come to me.  You know, I didn't really have to force too much, I felt like.  I got a little bit aggressive off the tee on some holes I probably shouldn't have, but overall, if you can get off to a good start on this golf course and let the golf course come to you more, I think you'll play it better.
Q. Are you aware of the drama involving your playing partner?
TONY FINAU: Oh, yes.  Yeah, I don't know how he even made contact with the ball the first couple holes.  Everything that he's been through is crazy.  He's such a great guy and such a great competitor.  Tough to hear everything that he's been through for the last week honestly.
Q. Did you know before you teed off?
TONY FINAU: I knew 15 minutes before we teed off.  I was talking to him on the putting green, on the practise green.  We had heard, most of the players we kind of hear what happens to other guys.  I mentioned it to him, and he said, his clubs didn't make it.  He's been stuck in the States for the last few days.  Really crazy, and honestly, he played really well.
Q. What about the conditions here?  Is talk about the conditions.  This course has a history of having some very dramatic conditions, but the conditions today?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I would just call them scorable just because limited wind, especially in Scotland, and warm.  So you're able to hit some -- you're rewarded.  You hit good golf shots out here, and you can make some birdies.  And the greens were a good speed.
When you're putting out here, I think, in an Open Championship, they don't really get away from you.  Coming from the States, the greens are a lot faster.  I think they're a good making speed as well.
Q. (Inaudible).  Could you imagine playing this well in major championships?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I probably could have.  I feel like my game is built for major championship golf.  Just meaning I'm just getting better each year.  I feel like I'm learning a lot and continue to get better.  I hit it better, chipping it better, putting it better.  So just my overall game, and I know what to expect at this point in my career as far as major setups and different things like that.  So I think it helps me.
Q. More on the eve of a major championship, you could be looking at (inaudible) strength for strength?
TONY FINAU: A huge part of my life and my story is perseverance.  Once I told myself I was going to finish, I didn't know how I was going to play, but I knew I was going to finish.  I continue to just write that.  Just keep fighting and do your best and see where the chips fell, and they fell my way, it seems like, the last couple majors.  We'll keep playing and keep persevering and see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT