U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Tony Finau is next in the Flash area.  Tony shot a championship tying 66 today and is plus 3 for the Championship.
Q. As Steve just alluded to, you share the lowest round of the tournament.  How does that feel?
TONY FINAU: Feels good.  I played really nicely, especially for my last 15 holes.  I got off to a rough start.  I bogeyed the 2nd hole, bogeyed the 3rd hole, a couple over early.
But, you know, I kind of, I rolled the ship in nicely.  I was able to bounce back with a birdie right away on 4, and then really got fortunate, you know, to make birdie on 5.  There's two fairways on 5.  I was aiming at the left one and ended up hitting the right one.
Out here, usually when you make a bad swing, you can make a bad number.  Most of the time you're going to make a bad number.  But I was able to get away with a bad swing there.  Hit a 3 iron right at the green and get up and down for birdie.
So it was nice just to get those back right away.  I think that was a huge part of the round today.
Q. Is this round any indication of how easily you can make up ground?  I wouldn't say the round was easy at all, but how quickly you can make up ground?
TONY FINAU: Yeah.  I feel like my game is built for championship golf just because I make a lot of birdies and I hit it with length and the putter can get hot.  I think that's a great combination in championship golf.
But I think just all around, I've become more of a complete player, and you have to be this week to post anything good.
So I was able to bounce back, and I think more mentally I allowed myself to do that, more so than physically.  I feel like I have the capability to play well out here, but getting off to the start I did today, you know, you probably wouldn't have guessed I shot anything under par.
But mentally, just stayed, you know, stayed with it and was able to post a really nice round.
Q. How far back is too far back starting tomorrow, do you think?
TONY FINAU: I think more than six is going to be too far back, but I do think you can make five or six shots up on this golf course.  Yeah.
Q. With the exception of Dustin, he's the only one who's got a gap, and he's the only one who can control what he does.  You're in a tight knot going into the final round of the U.S. Open.  What are your thoughts going into tomorrow?
TONY FINAU: Haven't had a lot of time to think about tomorrow's round, but if I can feed off the energy I had late in today's round and continue that momentum into tomorrow, it will be fun.
But, you know, this is what we play for.  This is what we practice for.  Put ourselves in contention and just in a good position going into Sunday.  So I was really pleased with my round today.  Just to have that opportunity going into today -- I barely made the cut.  Going into today, I needed something special to happen to even have an outside chance.
Whether I do or not at the end of today, I'm really happy with where I'm at.  And have an opportunity to play well tomorrow and post a good U.S. Open.
Q. Thanks, Tony.
TONY FINAU: Thanks, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT