ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2018
Tony Finau
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Daniel, Tony, it was one of those days out there where everybody kind of get off to a good start and then ever he body just struggled in the middle part of the round, but you guys were able to squeeze some good birdies out of it late.  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it was huge.  We had four birdies in a row I feel like on some of the tougher holes on the golf course.  We just ham and egged it really nicely.  You know, I birdied 14, he birdied 15, I birdied 16, 17.   
So to me, the momentum-changing part about our round was on 10.  I hit it out of play and (indiscernible) and made a clutch birdie.  That kept the momentum going for us when we really needed it.  Kept me in it for a couple of holes that I didn't have my best stuff.   
So, the great thing about this format is it's a team format, and we've been picking each other up nicely throughout these last three days.  We're going to need that tomorrow.   
 Q.  People make a big deal out of the familiarity.  Some pairings go together really well like you two; some people don't.  When you go into a Sunday, Daniel, and it's one ball and you guys know what each other likes, what shot you want to set up, how does that advantage play into it?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: I think, you know, it's been interesting this week.  Last year we were kind of all up in each other's space.  Hey, come read this putt.  Let's read together.  What do you think here?   
This year we've just completely backed off everything.  I called Tony in to read one putt yesterday and that's basically it.   
TONY FINAU: All we talked about all week.   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: In three rounds.  I think it's the underlying trust, right?  So it's, Hey, I'm trying my 100% best.  So at the end of day it's not like, Oh, how could he have done that, put me there?   
It's like, Hey, he's trying his darnedest to get me in a good spot.  I think that's the great thing about having a close friend.  We've played so much golf together.  There isn't any of that judgment.  I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.  I think it's going to be difficult, but that's what we do.  I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Most importantly, you have an entire state behind you.  What I want to know is how sick was Donovan Mitchell last night?  
TONY FINAU: Oh, my gosh, he is incredible.  He's absolutely incredible.  Watching him do his thing yesterday, the way he can move his body and finish out the basket, the way he shoots, it's really impressive stuff.  His numbers speak for themselves, but...   
You know, I got a chance to meet him -- was it Game 4?  No, Game 3 of the first round, and he's just a standup guy as well.   
I'm super impressed with him as a player and a person.  We're rooting for him as well.  It's cool to see them move past the second round.   
 Q.  Well, if you guys can have an under Sunday like he had a second half tomorrow, I think everybody be really happy.  Good playing.  Today you finished with four birdies on the final five holes.  Tony, what kind of mindset did you take in today to really attack the course?  
TONY FINAU: Yeah, we're more comfortable because we're coming off alternate shot, so I think there is less pressure playing when you're playing your own ball.   
We just kind of got into our rhythm.  He got us off to a nice start on 1 again; made a birdie there, and started off on the right foot.   
We ham and egged it really nicely.  We both played some solid golf.  I was proud of the way we fought there at the end to really make a run.   
 Q.  Last year you guys played together; didn't make the cut.  This year, in contention.  Daniel, in your mind, what's changed?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: We're just playing better.  I think my game continues to improve.  My iron play is definitely better than last year.  Tony is putting it like me, which is a good thing, you know.  He's rolling it really nice, you know.   
So I think our games are just flat out better this year, this time around.  We've definitely picked up each other when the other one has kind of been on the outs.   
So it's been a special three days, and can't wait to get out there tomorrow.   
 Q.  You guys are good friends.  Both from Utah.  In fact, you share the same coach, your brother Boyd.  So what advice have you gotten from brother/coach this week?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: We were just all cheering for the Jazz last night.  That was the only advice he gave us, was, Go Jazz.   
TONY FINAU: That's right.   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: We're lucky to have Boyd, and especially me as his brother.  I love having him in such a close work relationship as well.  I think more than anything, it's just the support that you feel even when they're not there.  They're very vested, interested in everything you're doing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT