MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2018
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You really didn't know it was six in a row?
TONY FINAU: No, I didn't until my caddie told me I had six in a row. I was kind of in a zone. But I thought I gave up a lot of shots with the putter early and yesterday and today just not playing what I felt like to my standard. I really put my head down. And I wanted a good finish. 
So, yeah, I guess you could say I was in the zone, to finish that way. I hit the fairways I needed to, especially on the par‑5s, I hit some great shots and made some great putts. That's what you've got to do around here. Very, very pleased with the way I finished today.

Q. Were you thinking top 12 in your mind?
TONY FINAU: A hundred percent, yep, a hundred percent. I know nothing is guaranteed, you know? Finishing 20th this week, you'd like to think I'd be back, but nothing is guaranteed. That's something I've learned in life and in this game. Take advantage of the opportunity you had. I had an opportunity this week and unless I get very, very unlucky I think I've taken advantage of it. I look forward to being back here. It's a golf course I know I can play, and I've proved that to myself this week. 

Q. Starting with a hole‑in‑one, is that a bigger thrill than knowing that you're probably going to be back for next year's Masters?
TONY FINAU: Yep, no doubt in my mind. The hole‑in‑one was spectacular, following up by the most embarrassing hole in my life. But it is what it is. I've got a lot of cool coverage from it, from people in the stands I never knew I had. So the reach from what happened to me was pretty incredible. So I wouldn't change that. Yes, I was embarrassed, but, you know, hey, things happen. And obviously I was able to overcome it, you know. Who knows, if I'm healthy, if I played better, if I played worse, all I know is that I did my best for the circumstance that I had, and came out with a nice finish this week. 

Q. What is the funniest comment you heard from Wednesday?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, there were a lot of funny ones. Different memes and guys twisting it different ways. I think nobody knows how to pronounce my name, that's probably the funniest thing. I don't know why they think the A is silent. But that's pretty funny. So hopefully I keep playing good enough golf that they'll know how to say my name, at least. 

Q. Knowing how hard it is to get here how special is this place?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, very special. It's a cool place to be. I was happy I came here early, meaning I played a handful of practice rounds before I got here. So there weren't too many surprises when I played the golf course. 
But, you know, to be on the back nine at Augusta on a Sunday, to be playing some good golf, it doesn't get much better. One of the highlights of my golfing career thus far, and no question, has been this week. With everything‑‑ adversity I was faced with on Wednesday, and now the way I finished today, you know, you can't make this stuff up. There's no way I could have dreamed Wednesday‑‑ waking up Thursday morning, I couldn't have dreamed that I would play this well, because the last thing in my mind I was focused on was playing golf. 

Q. You're in the trees, and you get it‑‑
TONY FINAU: It was the shot of the week. I blocked my drive off the tee and was fortunate to have a decent lie in the straw, but I still had to hit about a 40 or 50 yard fade of 185 yards. And I pulled a 5‑iron. I'm very creative. I've known how to play out of the trees, because I never hit a straight one out of the trees. So it's something that I take pride in. A lot of times‑‑ as long as I have a swing I feel like I have a shot. I strongly believe that. And that was the perfect example. I would have taken 4, but 3 is even better.

Q. That adrenaline carried you Thursday. How much is it going to carry you later today, racking up birdies, and going toward that top 12?
TONY FINAU: It carried me a lot. Especially on the par‑5s. To take care of the par‑5s the way I did, and on the back nine with the adrenaline. Walking up hills, I bet my foot is yellow and purple. This morning it was purple. And right now I bet it's yellow. I'm going to need some rest. And I don't believe I've done any further damage, I just need to rest. 
I'll take some time off now and just enjoy kind of the week that I had, kind of look at it. There's still plenty to learn. There's still plenty to get better from. But all in all a pretty spectacular week for me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT