SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 4, 2017
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Fantastic round today.  Some really difficult conditions.
TONY FINAU: It was tough, but you've got to control your ball flight.  The balls are flying all over the place, but mentally you've just got to try to stay in it and take one shot at a time.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
TONY FINAU: Just keeping myself in this situation, and how I react.  You learn a lot about yourself.  I look forward to the challenge tomorrow, and I'm happy to be in contention.
Q. Straight 69s, but I hesitate to say that today was probably the best of the three?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, no question.  Just with the wind it's really tough out there.  You have to do your best to stay in it.  You know how hard it's playing, so sometimes you make an easy par, but pars are your friend out here today.  So I was happy with my round, and I look forward to tomorrow's round.
Q. Speak to how hard it is to commit to some of the club selections given the wind up-and-down?
TONY FINAU: It's really tough.  The thing is whether it's down, cross, into, when it's this much wind, you really have to do your math and trust what you're doing.  So I was able to do that.  I hit a lot of really nice shots.  I was happy with the way I hit it.  If I can make some putts tomorrow, I think we're going to be okay.
Q. You've come over here from China.  What are the energy levels like?
TONY FINAU: It was low earlier in the week, for sure.  But by the time Thursday came around, I think the jet lag was gone, and I was able to have some more energy.  So I feel great now, and just in time.  We have a Sunday round to make a run at it.
Q. Considering the wind and how it's likely to blow tomorrow, three back or 4-back whatever it ends up being, it's probably close enough to make a serious run, right?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think with these conditions you never know what's going to happen on a day like today.  If it's going to be the same conditions tomorrow.  You just never know what's going to happen.  So being a few back, you know, I look forward to the challenge tomorrow.  I'm going to have to play great golf no matter what.
Whenever you're behind chasing three or four guys that are playing well, you have to play well.  So it doesn't matter the conditions.  I know I'm going to have to golf tomorrow, and I look forward to the challenge.
Q. Some of the guys at the top of the board are in search of their first victory.  You've been out here a little while and enjoyed success.  Does that maybe give you an edge?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I think a little bit more than experience.  I think what we're learning in our game now is these guys are coming out and ready to win.  There is no edge, I think because these guys know that they can play.
That's something that I learned really early when I came out here.  I think even the guys at the top of the leaderboard, they've competed and they know they have what it takes to win.  So I have more experience than them as far as years on tour than some of these guys, but, you know, I think we're all looking forward to tomorrow and teeing it up.  This is what we practice for and play for to put ourselves in these situations.  There's a handful of us that have a chance at it tomorrow.
Q. It's one of those days where you're really not wrapped up in your score.  Is that hard to do when you're out there?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it's hard to do.  It's hard not to leaderboard watch on a day like today because you never know what's going to happen.  You can only control the shot and the shot that you're hitting, because the wind was crazy out there.  Coming down the stretch, gusts of 30.  So the club selections, they were hard to pull the right clubs.  Whether it was cross, and you had to try to figure it out and all that.  So we'll be dealing with a lot of the same tomorrow.
We never know what the winning score is going to be.  It came down a shot or two today.  It may even do that tomorrow.  You just never know.  When the golf course is playing like this, and obviously with what we have on the line, it's going to -- I think it's going to shake up to be a great Sunday.  Looking forward to being in the thick of it tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT