WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 26, 2017
Tony Finau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under, just talk about the first time out here and what it was like out there?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, it was nice.  It's cool.  I like China.  The food is good.  The golf course is good.  It has some nice holes.
I played really solid.  I didn't score on any of the par 5s, and so to be able to post a 5-under score and not really be able to attack the par 5s, I think is a positive thing for me looking ahead.  So if I could do some more damage on the par 5s, I could put myself in a good position going into the weekend.
I'm happy with my first round, and yeah, I think I hung in there early when I needed to, made some par saves and was able to make some birdies coming down the stretch today.
Q. Your first WGC?
TONY FINAU: Right.
Q. One of those events where you get to test yourself against a bit of a stronger field.  Just talk about being out here and competing and showing that you can win one of these events that's maybe a step up from what you would say on the regular PGA TOUR.
TONY FINAU: Yeah, these are the fields that you want to get into, the WGCs, the majors.  Those are all the tournaments that you want get into.  I was able to do that for myself getting into THE TOUR Championship on the PGA TOUR.
It's a good start in our first WGC.  You have to test your game against the best players in the world, and I have that opportunity this week.  I'm off to a good start and I look forward to the next few days.
Q. You mentioned getting to THE TOUR Championship.  That kind of opens up a lot of scheduling for you next year.  Have you been able to wrap your head around it yet and develop a plan?
TONY FINAU: Yeah, I have.  I'll play this week and play next week in Vegas.  My manager and I talked about it already, our schedule for next year; trying to put together a game plan for that.  Still have to take care of some business this year.  I've got a few rounds this week, and then next week in Vegas.  Then I'll be able to reflect on the year I've had and move forward from there.
I know for sure I'm excited for the Masters.  That's a tournament I've never played in.  That's a tournament that drew me to the game when I was a kid.  When Tiger won in '97, I picked up the golf clubs that summer.
So to have an opportunity to play in that tournament is something I've dreamed of my whole life.  Any time I talk about it actually, it gives me goosebumps.  It's pretty cool.  I know for sure that's something I'll look forward to.
But I've got to keep my head down here for the next few days and then we'll look at the schedule when the time comes and I have some time off.
Q. You mentioned enjoying China so far.  Have you gotten out of the hotel much?
TONY FINAU: No, but I'm going to head to Shanghai actually tonight.  That will be fun.  I look forward to that and have some good food, have some real Chinese food.  I haven't had real Chinese food from a real Chinese restaurant.  I look forward to that in Shanghai tonight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT