WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. CILIC/J. Isner
  7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑7, 12‑10 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you have been through these kind of things before, but how hard is it to sit out a night and come back out?   Is it when you first come out that you're most vulnerable again?  
JOHN ISNER:   I mean, it appeared so today.   You know, that first game, he didn't, wasn't making many first serves.   Surprisingly the linesman missed two calls.  
They didn't miss a call, I don't know if it's a different crew or whatever, but for four hours yesterday there was hardly a bad call, and then...   
But that's not ‑‑that's just a little unfortunate for me.   You know, I just didn't do it today.   Really the whole course of the match, he was the better player.   
   
 Q.   When you have to be on right away, do you go through a longer warmup or how do you get ready for a situation like that?  
JOHN ISNER:   The same warmup.   I wasn't stiff or cold or anything.   Certainly there is some nerves out there.   If you haven't been in that situation before, it's not easy, and I didn't handle it that well today.  
   
 Q.   We have seen Denis Kudla have a great run here at Wimbledon this year.   What do you know of Denis?   He's obviously had a great grass season?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, he likes grass a lot.   I know that much.   Better than, you know, hard or clay, I would say.  
He's a nice kid on top of that.   So very good guy.   I guess he's not really a kid.   
   
 Q.   A little bit.   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah.   But I'm real happy for him.   He'll need to keep on playing well against Marin, for sure.   He knows that.   
   
 Q.   I was watching when the referee came up to you last night.   You looked disappointed.   Did you want to go on?  
JOHN ISNER:   What do you mean, keep going on?   No, you couldn't.   
   
 Q.   Too dark?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What were you saying, One more game?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, one more game.   When they suspend matches, they try to get it at an even number if they can.  
   
 Q.   Did you do a lot of thinking back to the long, long, long one?  
JOHN ISNER:   No.  
   
 Q.   Because of this?  
JOHN ISNER:   No.  
   
 Q.   Not at all?   Didn't really...   
JOHN ISNER:   No.   That's what you guys talk about.   I try not to think about that.   
Again, it was brought up, but that's what everyone else talks about.   I don't think about it.  
   
 Q.   Would you like every court to be lit so that this these matches could be completed?  
JOHN ISNER:   Nah, I don't think that's an issue.   I mean, it happens a lot at this tournament.   It's probably happened every day, that there have been some matches that haven't finished.  
If you're playing last, you're always pretty vulnerable to that, so everyone knows that.   It's not for me to decide at all.  
   
 Q.   What about starting earlier?   They do 11:30 here instead of 11:00.   Every little bit can help.   
JOHN ISNER:   Well, I don't know.   Their policy is starting on the bigger courts at 1:00.   Maybe they could start earlier there.   I don't know why they do that.   It's what they do.   It's their tournament.  
   
 Q.   I don't want you to be in a position where it's sour grapes, but on the two calls, do you think you would have won those two points?  
JOHN ISNER:   No, no, I'm not saying I would have lost them, but you can't predict that.   I was in a better position than I was, you know, when the points were replayed, for sure.   But again, there is no excuses.   He beat me today, plain and simple.  
   
 Q.   With the calls going like they were, double fault at the end looked pretty close.   Did you think...   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I probably should have challenged.  
   
 Q.   Just in case?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I thought it was out.   I wasn't even thinking.   I double‑faulted at my ad, as well.   Ad‑in, I guess, I guess, two double faults, three points, so...   
That's unusual for me, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything in your mind you can chalk those up to?  
JOHN ISNER:   The double faults?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, trying to be too aggressive, do you think, or the nerves you mentioned earlier?  
JOHN ISNER:   No, it wasn't that.   My serve, no matter how nervous I am, that's a shot that generally I don't get nervous on.  
I just missed them.   You know, this sport it weird.   I think I only had one double fault all yesterday.  
Like I said, I didn't handle it well.   There's really no sugar coating it.  
It's very, very disappointing, because I have lost a lot of matches like that in the last, I don't know, four years or whatever.   It sucks.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel Marin is back at that level, and he will be defending his US Open title in a couple of months?   He had the injury for a while, but it looks like he's come good again.   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, he's certainly rounding into form.   When you're struggling a bit and getting through matches, you know, his second‑round match was very tough.   He was a few points from losing that match.  
He's a great player.   He's a very good player.   He serves extremely well.   He does everything very well.   That's why he won the US Open last year.  
For me, I'm not disappointed, nothing to hang my head about in losing to him.   It's just disappointing in the fashion that of how I lost that match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT