MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 13, 2015
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ISNER/S. Johnson
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Looks like you're going to play a pretty full season on clay this year.   
JOHN ISNER:   Well, I mean, yeah, decently full.   I'm going back home after this tournament, so...   I'm not playing the next week or the week after that.   
But, you know, I don't mind playing on clay.   I've had some good results on it before.   It does some things for my game that I think maybe people don't realize, that are very good for my game.   
I'm glad I made the trip over here ‑ now that I won.   If I'd lost, probably not.   But, you know, I like playing on clay.   This place is beautiful.   So I'm happy.   
   
 Q.   What was the difference between today and last week?   I know, obviously a different opponent.   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, you know, the clay is a little different.   In America, it's different than the stuff over here.   The clay here at the Country Club is arguably the best clay in the world.   
You know, also it takes some time.   I was just coming from Miami.   I did well there.   Didn't have much practice on clay.   So now I had a little bit more time to practice.   I think it made a difference.   
   
 Q.   Apparently the clay here is similar to the French Open.   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I would say that's an accurate statement, that the clay here and Roland Garros is pretty similar.   I've played well at the French Open before.   I've played well here before, especially at Davis Cup.   
Yeah, it's a surface that I like.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us which are the technical adjustments you make when you make the transition from hard courts to clay courts.   
JOHN ISNER:   With me it doesn't really change too much.   Whatever the surface is, I need to play aggressively, need to play up in the court.   Actually serve and volley quite a bit on clay.   It gives me time to get in to the net.   
But apart from that, you know, movement is different, something that I'm not that great at right now.   That takes a lot of time, to get my sliding down and whatnot.   But, you know, other than that, it's similar.   I just need to go for my shots and play aggressively.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT