BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2015
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ISNER/J. Melzer
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk about your match.   How happy are you to get off to a good start in this tournament?
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, very happy.   I haven't had too many matches like that recently, so it feels good for sure.

Q.   Does that match make you feel like you're starting to get back on track?
JOHN ISNER:   A little bit.   I'd like to put together a pretty good result here.   But, I mean, this tournament is so tough, and it's only getting tougher. 
That match is a step in the right direction.

Q.   You have another fairly tall player up next.   Is that easier for you?   Harder for you?
JOHN ISNER:   No, it's fine.   I have played Kevin more than I have played anyone in my career.   There is really no secrets out there.

Q.   Can you talk about your sponsorship with Bass Pro Shop?   That's kind of unusual for a tennis player to have that kind of sponsor. 
JOHN ISNER:   It is.   I love to fish.   I love to be outdoors.   As far as a partnership with me, it fits.   Bass Pro Shops is absolutely huge.   They are everywhere. 
Hopefully I can help expand their brand.   Doesn't really need expanding, in my opinion.   It's already the biggest there is.   But for me, I'm incredibly lucky to be associated with a company like that.   It's amazing.

Q.   That means you get to take us to their NASCAR race? 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I would hope so (Smiling.)   They have a lot of hookups everywhere, so it will ‑‑that's something that I'm very excited about.

Q.   Your best fishing story?   I saw a picture.   I'm guessing you're 13.
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah.   I don't know how old I was, but when I was growing up in North Carolina I fished more than I played tennis.   I would go to the lakes around my house.   I would, you know, cut class to go fishing.   I was a maniac. 
So I guess that picture was ‑‑I think I know which one you're talking about.   It was unearthed.   I don't know how that thing started to recirculate.   I remember that.   That was a long time ago.

Q.   You have seen the movie A River Runs Through It.   Ever talk to any tennis players like Chang or Mecir who fished?
JOHN ISNER:   Not Mecir.   I didn't know that.   I know Michael, he loves to bass fish.   Maybe he's a little jealous of me now.   It's something to do.   It's something I really enjoy doing.   Especially when, you know, when the time comes I'm done playing tennis.   I can see myself fishing a lot.

Q.   Competitively?
JOHN ISNER:   I don't know about competitively.   I would have to get a lot better, but it's something to do, for sure, on the weekends.

Q.   Is there anything that your fishing does for your tennis?
JOHN ISNER:   It puts my mind at ease.   When I'm away from the tennis courts I like to disconnect as much as I possibly can.   I fish a lot in Florida where I live.   You know, tennis players talk about kind of breaking away from the game, whether it's golf or, you know, playing other sports or whatnot.
But for me, one of the things I love to do is fish.

Q.   There are great places to fish.   What is your favorite place to go fishing when you travel on tour? 
JOHN ISNER:   When I travel, it's tough.   But when I'm home in Florida, it's arguably the best, you know, bass fishing in the world, really.   Florida and places in California and Texas are prime.

Q.   You're an NFL fan, and it's been said the cornerbacks in the league have to just instantly forget what happens.   Obviously a bad day in the office over in Glasgow.   How do you put that behind you? 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I mean, I have had a lot of people, ever since that tie, sort of helping me out, Jim Courier being one of them.   He knows I put my heart into it and I came up short. 
My coach, Justin, everyone has really sort of telling me the right things.   But for me it was tough.   It was tough to put behind me.   It stuck with me for a good three, four days.
But, you know, I'm starting to put it in the rearview mirror now.

Q.   The takeaway on their advice was what, John? 
JOHN ISNER:   Laid it all out there.   I didn't play great, but I competed as hard as I could.   That's really I guess all I can ask for when I go out on the court.   I just came up short. 
It's very disappointing when you're playing for someone, when you're playing for your country, your teammates and your captain, it's different.   It's a lot of pressure. 
I didn't perform as well as I have in the past.   I have had some of my greatest wins in the past in Davis Cup, but it wasn't meant to be last weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT