DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP PLAY-OFF: SLOVAKIA v USA
September 12, 2014
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ISNER/N. Gombos
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   John, talk about how, after you came back from 4‑2 in the tiebreaker, your game picked up after that.   Do you feel that way?
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, for sure.   I mean, every time you come out in a Davis Cup match, I don't care what the situation is, whether it's the Finals or whether it's the World Group playoff, there's going to be some nerves. 
I was a bit nervous in the beginning.   You know, I had to really dig deep to win that first set.   But once I got that under my belt, I exhaled and then I started to play better. 
Like I said, it's never easy.   But that first set was very important. 

Q.   He returned your serve fairly well initially, then after that he told us he thought he was looking at a serve from the Eiffel Tower.   Could you discern that?
JOHN ISNER:   Well, no, I thought he returned my second serve pretty decently.   You know, I don't know my percentage, but I felt like I served a pretty high percentage on first serve.   When I made a first serve, it was pretty tough for him.   It's tough for a lot of people. 
Going into a match like this, three‑out‑of‑five‑set match, it's not surprising that I didn't lose my serve.   I've done that before, for sure.   Always going to be the biggest part of my game and it's going to be the part of my game that I lean on the most. 

Q.   First time you've won a first match in a tie.   Does it feel good to get that happening now?
JOHN ISNER:   I didn't think about that.   Really? 

Q.   Yes. 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, it feels good.   I said yesterday I wanted to play at 4:00.   It's a little bit more difficult I think playing right now.   It's a long day.   You're waiting around.   You're in the locker room.   Like Sam was in the locker room watching me.   He doesn't want to waste his energy cheering me on. 
I wanted to play at 4:00.   I'm happy that I'm able to give our team one point.   I'll put my feet up, cheer on Sam here in a little bit. 

Q.   Did you see Sam in the locker room, have a conversation?
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, briefly.   He was getting ready.   But nothing X's and O's.   We were just goofing off as usual.   Nothing serious with us.

Q.   Just a little bit about what Jim was telling you through the first set, which was obviously close. 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, just to stay focused.   When I was returning, try to make as many balls as I can, especially on his first serve.   He was on me about not losing my focus. 
I actually think I did that pretty well, just sort of stayed aggressive out there.   It was tough.   The court, it stays pretty low.   The guy I played hits flat.   Weren't really too many balls for me to hit, so it was a tough adjustment. 
I got better as the match progressed, and that's very encouraging. 

Q.   He hasn't played one ATP‑level match this year.   He looks like he has a pretty decent game.   What are your thoughts on that?
JOHN ISNER:   It's difficult.   I knew that coming in.   Well, I found that out yesterday.   I knew he was a good player.   Everyone's good.   It's a tough match for someone like me.   We're at home.   I'm ranked higher than him.   I guess on paper I'm expected to win that match.   There's a lot of pressure on me.   It's not an easy situation. 
I knew he was going to be good.   He's ranked 120 in the world or something like that, so he's a good player.   Just had to do my thing.   Fortunately I was able to take care of business. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT