U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2014
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  P. KOHLSCHREIBER/J. Isner7-6, 4-6, 7-6, 7-6An interview with:JOHN ISNERTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Weird situation to be playing the same guy a few years in a row in the same round.  Where do you think things went wrong for you today?JOHN ISNER: I didn't play the big points well today.  You know, I had a good amount of chances.  I just couldn't pull through. It's very disappointing.Q. Do you feel like you weren't executing or he rose to the occasion a little better?JOHN ISNER: Little bit of both.  I feel like I should have won that first set.  You know, got a little tight, to be honest.  Didn't move my feet on some big points that I really needed, set points, breakpoints. Same thing in the third and fourth sets, as well.  I had chances.  I just didn't convert.  I'm not disappointed about, you know, losing those tiebreakers.  Yeah, I've won a bunch of those.  But that's going to happen.  You know, I felt like I could have had chances to where those didn't need to be necessary, and I didn't convert.Q. Were the nerves coming from pressure you put on yourself because it's the last major and you want to do well?JOHN ISNER: It's everything.  I put pressure on myself.  You want to play well in front of that crowd, which is fantastic.  A lot of things, you know. Sometimes it's tough to overcome.  It's not why I lost, wasn't simply because of nerves.  He played well.  He played the bigger points better than me. You know, I got to be better than that.  It's just as simple as that.  He beat me fair and square, obviously.  But I feel like I'm better than that.  I just didn't show it out there today.  It's very disappointing.Q. At any point do you think back on the other matches you played with him here?  Is there a moment where you said, I lost to him twice here?  Did that affect you at any point in the match?JOHN ISNER: No, not really.  I mean, certainly a very weird situation.  I never expected I could see him again this year in that round. I really don't think that had anything to do with it.  It's super disappointing that I've lost to him three times in a row at this tournament.  I have the crowd on my side, I have a lot of things going my way as far as that goes, I wasn't able to pull through three times in a row, it's a bit annoying.  It's very disappointing. You know, there's nothing else to say.  He was just better three times in a row here.  Like I said, I got to be better.  I know I can be.  Just not showing it.Q. Going to Chicago, how do you see that matchup happening?JOHN ISNER: I'm not thinking about it at all right now.  I just have to try to get over this one because it stings really badly.  So my focus right now is, you know, not focused on Davis Cup right now.  I'm just focused on getting over that one mentally because it will be tough.Q. If you look at this match by the numbers, with 42 aces, you've never been broken once in the whole tournament, you look at it, it looks like it should amount to a victory.  Does it make it somehow more difficult?JOHN ISNER: Yeah, it does.  You tell me going into the match I'm not going to lose my serve, you'd think I'd win the match.  Not the case today.  It's very disappointing. I don't know.  It's tough.  It's a real tough one for me.  I did some things well out there, but I did a lot of things not well at all.  But obviously I'm not taking anything away from him, but there's some things I could have done better. I just didn't.  As I said already, he played better in the big points.Q. If there were one or two points you could replay, is there one in the fourth set tiebreaker you would take?JOHN ISNER: No.  He played well there.  First set, the breakpoints I had in the first set, didn't really give myself a chance.  Had a second serve on one.  I missed the return.  You know, that changes the complexion of the match, it really does, if I can win that first set. Again, you know, I had chances in the third set.  I had chances in the fourth set.  I just couldn't break through.  It sucks.Q. Second year no American has made it to the fourth round here.  Is it frustrating?  How disappointing is it?JOHN ISNER: No, it's disappointing for me personally, not for America as a whole.  For me personally it's very disappointing 'cause, you know, I should hold myself to a pretty high standard.  It's disappointing to go out in the third round three years in a row to the same guy.  You know, America as a whole, that's not for me to worry about.  But for me personally, it's very disappointing.Q. The season is not over, but what has been the most disappointing for you?JOHN ISNER: The season as a whole?Q. Yes.JOHN ISNER: The season's been all right.  I've been pretty well.  You know, I just haven't -- I don't know.  I just feel like I can be better, I really do.  I really feel that way.  I'm not showing it right now. The season is not over.  There's a lot of big, big tournaments ahead.  For me, I'm not going to be playing at home, which sucks.  But there's a lot of big opportunities ahead.  The good thing is I feel good. So just keep working and try to get better.  Just keep believing in myself.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT