WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 13, 2014
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ISNER/M. Matosevic
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How tough was it today with that sun and the clouds in and out?
JOHN ISNER:   It's pretty tough, but, you know, it's something that all of us have dealt with countless times.   You know, when you play at 1:00ish, 12:00 to 2:00, if you're on the court between that time, you pretty much know that the sun on one side is gonna be tough.
Definitely alters the toss.   It's just one thing you have to adjust for, but it's difficult for both players.

Q.   What about your feeling coming back to Cincy after your success here last year?
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, well, I played so unbelievably well here last year; I'm off to a very good start this year.   I love this tournament; I feel very comfortable here. 
I think more so than that, I think the conditions are just extremely good for me.   The ball bounces up really high; the court is pretty fast.   For me, being such a big guy with the ball bouncing up high, you know, those type of conditions bode well for me.
So that's what happened last year, and that's what's happening so far this year.

Q.   Is this a better ticket for fans in a sense that you have a Grand Slam where you have all the main players and a field like today where you get both sides of the draw and really access at a smaller event.   People will see as much tennis as they want. 
JOHN ISNER:   I think you can make that argument.   You know, it depends on what the tennis fan likes.   If they like sort of the glitz and glamour of the US Open and the buzz around the grounds, there are tons of matches at the US Open.
But here it's a little bit more personal, I guess.   All the best players in the world are here, barring injury. 
So this tournament, as far as being a tennis fan goes, in my opinion, it's second to none.   The town is super easy to get around.   I guess one plus is you're not in New York City all the time fighting traffic. 
You can do whatever you want to do here.   It's a very good ticket, for sure.

Q.   A couple matches under your belt.   Did you talk about Murray yet?
JOHN ISNER:   No.   You know, I think I have only played him twice.   Yeah.   So both on hard court.   Haven't played him in a few years, really.   It's been three years or something like that.   Maybe two years.   I don't know.
He's one of the best in the world, but for me it's a great challenge, a great opportunity.   I normally play very well against players ranked ahead of myself, so I'm looking forward to it.

Q.   What's the best practical advice you've ever gotten as a tennis player?
JOHN ISNER:   Oh, gosh.   Probably just I think it's simple but sort of staying composed on the court.   No matter what the situation is, it's something that's completely under my control at all times.   Not getting too down on yourself. 
It's the same for everyone.   Things turn out better when you are sort of even keeled on the court and have a good mentality out there.
In Toronto last week I didn't have that and I didn't play well.   This week I have made a very conscious effort to let ‑‑you know, I missed an opportunity to just let it ‑‑ just completely forget about it and move on to the next point and not get to or not waste too much energy sulking or getting too high on the court. 
Stuff like that goes a long way.

Q.   Who gave you that advice?
JOHN ISNER:   It's not just one person.   I mean, it's a pretty simple thing, but I think my coach at Georgia, he sort of hammered that into me at a very early age.   It's something I'm always working on.   For the most part I do a pretty good job.
I had a bit of a relapse last week in Toronto, and I was very disappointed about that, so I knew I had to make a very conscious effort to turn that around this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT