WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 14, 2014
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Isner
  6‑7, 6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was obviously a tough match, John.   What are your thoughts?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, it was a tough match, one I could have won, but one I easily could have lost.   That's what happened.  
You know, I had two match points and didn't capitalize, but I thought I played those points the right way.  
So there's really no regrets.   I thought I played pretty well and I thought he played well.   There are certainly some things I could have done better, as in any match you play.  
But, you know, he was better at the end.   He kept his cool the whole match.  
You know, it's a tough one, but it happens, and I gotta move on.  
   
 Q.   In terms of quality and your form, how does that rate, that match rate, for the hard court season?   One of the best?   "The" best?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, yeah, this year for sure.   I knew I was gonna have ‑‑I knew it was going to be a good match.   I mean, I didn't imagine myself blowing him off the court, and vice versa, I didn't imagine him blowing me off the court.  
He was just a little better and he played pretty well and did a lot of things.   Kept me off balance and served pretty well, I thought, with the exception of that last game at 6‑5, but he was still able to win that one.  
I didn't convert in the end.   You know, I could very easily be sitting here the winner.   That's how this sport is.   There are really close margins, especially with matches that I play.   I'm not gonna win every one, that's for sure.   
   
 Q.   What about the atmosphere out there?   Seemed like it was a pretty cool match to be a part of, in general.   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, very cool.   Sort of like standing room only.   You could see people on center court at the top looking over and watching.   It was great.   The fans were unbelievable.   I thought they were on my side the whole way, and they were.   
You know, I was up against one of the, you know, greats of our game currently, so having the crowd, that helped a lot.   I wish I could have won for them, but at the same time, it was so much fun.   I enjoyed it.   
So much fun playing, you know, guys like Andy, because you know for the most part the atmosphere is going to be good.   It's a great opportunity, one I don't want to say I let slip away, but one I came close to winning.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned things you could have done better.   Anything that stands out that you'll take from this match moving forward?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah.   I mean, there were some times when, you know, we have match points or big points and you don't play them the right way.   It kind of hurts more if you end up losing the match.   
But especially on that first match point, I thought I played it the right way.   I had a volley, and I just missed it.   You know, that's just such a, I don't know, it's a volley I feel like I make more times than not.  
But, you know, he was scrambling and getting so many balls back.   He did that, especially at the very end of that match.   
But, no, happy with how I competed.   But, you know, I can always get better.   If I want to get better as a player, you know, I have to maybe find a way to win that match.  
But he was too good.  
   
 Q.   Would it be fair to call it a confident‑boosting loss just because of your form?   Returned well; serve was clicking; volleys were good.   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I guess you could say that.   Maybe not right now.   It was disappointing to lose.   I'm not happy about it.   
But I have no regrets.   You know, I feel like I did, you know, for the most part I did everything I wanted to do out there.   Maybe I could have played better, yeah.   But, no, I fought hard and I competed well.   
Maybe tomorrow I'll look back on it, you know, to give me some confidence.   I'm playing well and I'm feeling good.   It's disappointing to lose.   
I love this tournament and I wanted to sort of emulate what I had going last year.   I was close to doing it and keep on going, but it just wasn't to be.   Wasn't meant to be.  
   
 Q.   I have a technology question not about this match.   I am doing a story on these Cool Seats being tested on the tour.   They were used in Washington during the changeover.   It's a cooling gel that you sit on.   There is also a vest.   Have you tried that out?  
JOHN ISNER:   No, I don't...  
   
 Q.   Would you try now?  
JOHN ISNER:   I don't know what it is.  
   
 Q.   Something you sit on.   It's a cooling gel.   
JOHN ISNER:   It's cool, I guess, but I can't...   
   
 Q.   So the heat doesn't really like...   
JOHN ISNER:   Certainly.   Yeah, it does, but I have to try the product to give you an answer on that.   
   
 Q.   Andy was saying he could hear the interview happening off court.   
JOHN ISNER:   The Serena Williams one?   That was a littleeh.   That was kind of weird.   Super loud.   But that's what you get on that court.   It's something you have to deal with.   It's not ideal, you know.   It was really loud.   It went away eventually.  
   
 Q.   Do you prefer playing on courts that have kind of a smaller run‑back?   Does that kind of give you a little bit more confidence and freedom on your serve?   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, you know, that's an unbelievable court for me, that court here on Grandstand.   I can't ask for a better court to play on as far as my game goes.   It's kind of closed in, plays fast and gets up high, and I guess guys I play against can't retrieve ‑‑they can't go ‑‑they run out of room back there.   Even Andy hit a camera I think at one point (smiling).   
No, that court is great.   I was happy to be on it today.   The atmosphere was awesome and I wanted to win that one.   I think I probably could have been on center after that, but, you know, he's moving on.   But I'll learn from it.  
   
 Q.   What's the hope for accomplishment next week in North Carolina?  
JOHN ISNER:   Well, I don't know.   I'm not thinking about it right now.   That's where I'm from, so I'm going to go and sleep in my own bed with my parents.   Not with my parents.   Excuse me.   At my parents' house.   That's kind of creepy.   Sleep in my own bed at my parents' house.   I'll sleep with my dog, all right?   Gosh, I'm not five years old anymore (Laughter.)  
Yeah, I'm excited to get back home.   I don't get back to North Carolina that much.   Right now I'm looking forward to that.   Obviously I'd love to still be here and prepare for possibly playing Roger.   That would have been unbelievable.   
But I'll have more chances against guys like that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT