ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2014
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ISNER/M. Kukushkin 
      6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Tight first couple sets.   Just talk about the match a little bit.   
    JOHN ISNER:   Yeah.   You know, tough conditions for me.   Not ideal, I guess.   But that's how it is.  
    Definitely not complaining about that.   Again ‑‑  
   
 Q.   The rain or the cold?  
    JOHN ISNER:   Both.   You know, it dampens the court a little bit.   
    But just like my first round, I wouldn't say 100% pleased with how I played, but I'm 100% pleased that I'm through to the next round.  
    You know, definitely I have relied on my serve so much these first two rounds, which is fine, but I wish it didn't have to be that way.  
    So I've got to get better.   The best thing I did today is I competed pretty well, so, you know, thankfully I won that fourth set.   They probably would have called us and I would have to sleep on a fifth set tomorrow, which would not be fun.  
   
 Q.   Self‑recriminations there.   You were pissed at yourself a lot of the time.   
    JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I need to get better on that.   I was frustrated.   It was one of the things I felt I was in a lot of the points.   I just wasn't winning a lot of them.  
    I thought my opponent played a very smart match.   He's is a very good player, especially from the back.  
    You know, I had chances in every set, but, you know, didn't capitalize on some of them.   So it was frustrating a little bit.   
    You know, going forward, you know, as this tournament keeps progressing, the players are so tough still in it, I need to, you know, maybe keep my head a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   Coming into the third round.   It's been a while since you got past that hurdle in a slam.   Is there any meaning, getting that one step further, would it be a big deal since it's been a while since any American guy made it to a second week at a slam?   
    JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, it would be a very big deal.   I'm not putting extra pressure on myself, but I haven't made a second week of a slam in quite some time.   Definitely been in the third round before, but never done it here.   I would really like to do it here.  
    At the same time I know I have an extremely tough match against a very good clay courter coming up.  
    I'm only focused on getting myself ready in two days' time.  
   
 Q.   Have you played Robredo on clay?  
    JOHN ISNER:   No.   I don't think so.   I don't think I have played him ‑‑it's been a while.   No, I have like 2010 maybe.   Honestly, I don't think I have played him since then.  
   
 Q.   He's a serious dirt baller.   
    JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, he's good.   He uses his forehand so well.   Forehand inside out is his play, and he's so quick getting around it.  
    I know he's going to do that against me, hit his forehand to my backhand and get me moving.   It's going to be tough.   I feel like I'm going to have to play better, for sure.  
   
 Q.   Even though it's on the women's side, does it send reverberations through the American locker room when something happens like Serena losing or on theother side like Taylor Townsend winning, which I think was when you were on court, soyou probably didn't see that.   
    JOHN ISNER:   No, there aren't reverberations in the locker room.   I think the Serena match was on a TV like this big (indicating).   It doesn't matter to us.  
   
 Q.   I imagine you're hoping for drier, sunnier weather?  
    JOHN ISNER:   I for sure am.   It would help me a lot, I think, but at the same time, you know, you've got to play in a lot of different conditions.   That's what makes this sport pretty cool.  
    So has the surface ‑‑this is the only surface you can play on where you can play through that crap out there right now.  
    I would like drier conditions, but, you know, we'll see what happens in two days.  
   
 Q.   Why not dubs with Sam?   
    JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I think my days of doubles in   Grand Slams are over.   I'm getting a little older.   I'm starting to feel it a little bit, and it's just too much, you know, too many pitches to be thrown out there.   I have to sort of preserve myself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT