WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2013
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ISNER/J. Del Potro 
  6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   First time in John's career he's defeated three top‑10 players in a row.   It's the second ATP Masters 1000 final.   Indian Wells 2012, and he's trying to become the first American to win here since Andy Roddick in 2006.   Questions?

Q.   John, you got a taste of it yesterday when Novak double faulted in the tiebreaker, but what was going through your head when Del Potro double faulted on that match point? 
JOHN ISNER:   I knew at that moment the sun on that one side was pretty bad.   We were actually both struggling with it.   Yeah, I mean, it was big for me to get it back on deuce.   It was lucky for me to get it back on deuce too. 
And then on the deuce point, I got a look at another second serve and told myself before the second serve I was going to run around it, hit a forehand.   That's what I did, hit it well and got a breakpoint.   And from there, I played an excellent point to get it back on serve. 
It gave me a lot of momentum.

Q.   John, in Atlanta, you were winning, but you were playing pretty long matches, a lot of small margins.   Seems like in Cincy, you've been playing from the baseline pretty well and giving yourself much more cushion a lot of times in these sets.   Do you feel like you're playing that much better over the last month? 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, yeah, I've been winning a lot of matches this summer.   But as I said yesterday, I feel like I'm‑‑ this tournament here is where I'm really starting to put it all together.   No offense to the other guys I've beaten prior to this, but like you just said, I've beaten three top‑10 guys in a row. 
For me to do that, I have been playing well, really in pretty much all facets of my game.   There's definitely some stuff I can always improve on, but I do think I'm playing well.

Q.   From a technical perspective, what were you most pleased about today? 
JOHN ISNER:   Technically‑‑ I don't know.   I'm not really‑‑ I was just pleased how I competed.   That's the most important thing.   Nothing else is even close to that for me. 
I don't know technically.   I haven't really thought about that, but just how I competed is really what kept me in the match.

Q.   John, as you're going up to shake your opponent's hand after a big win like this, what's going through your head? 
JOHN ISNER:   I'm just very happy.   Playing tournaments of this magnitude and being able to get wins like that on a packed stadium court full of American fans cheering me on, it's an unbelievable feeling. 
It's one that I haven't had too much at a tournament this level.   Indian Wells last year, yeah.   You know, you want to soak it in a little bit, but at the same time, that wasn't the finals.   The finals is tomorrow, and I'll be ready to go.

Q.   Yesterday you said your record in the U.S. is shockingly different from your record outside of the U.S.   Did you find any explanation of that? 
JOHN ISNER:   I don't know.   I mean, I'm just comfortable in the U.S.   It's something I need to improve on.   Really sort of saved my season the last four years every time the summer rolls around in the States. 
I mean, I don't think‑‑ I'm probably always going to play my best tennis in the States, but I can always improve over in Europe.   One thing is these are surfaces I'm comfortable on, but also the support that I have from the fans and whatnot, it helps a lot. 
What it all comes down to is me being comfortable.   I think that's the main key.

Q.   John, on that 5‑4 game, he double faulted on match point, but overall in the whole game, I think he double faulted one other time.   At 30‑15, he had a routine forehand that he missed.   And even on the excellent point that you broke, he had a couple of chances to take charge of that point, and he backed off.   Do you think overall he got a little bit tight on that last game?   Did it feel like that to you on the court or not? 
JOHN ISNER:   I don't think so.   As I said before, the sun was very rough on that side, so it was tough to serve, especially on the ad side.   It was a thing where‑‑ you know, you don't‑‑ both of us, for a 30‑minute stretch, we weren't able to toss the ball where we both wanted it.   So I think that had something to do with it. 
I actually don't think he got tight.   He's too relaxed to get tight, in my opinion.   That's just how he is. 
He did make some mistakes, but I don't think it was because he was super tight.

Q.   John, you mentioned the sun a couple times.   Was the breeze any kind of a concern on your tosses down there also? 
JOHN ISNER:   No, it wasn't too‑‑ the wind, I don't think, was a factor at all.

Q.   John, what does a second Masters final mean to you, and what would a title mean to you at this stage of your career? 
JOHN ISNER:   Well, it's awesome to be at this level, be at this stage.   Again, I should say these are the toughest tournaments in the world, given the player field. 
It's a smaller draw, and everyone's entered.   It's not a Grand Slam.   Those are a much bigger draw.   But everyone in the main draw is top 50 in the world. 
To be able to get to this stage, you've got to beat a lot of good players, and you have to have a lot of things go your way, which I have this week.   I've caught a few breaks here and there.   I'll take it and see what I can do tomorrow.   It was a great experience last year in Indian Wells.   I'll try to go out tomorrow and play as best as I can and see what happens.

Q.   Your thoughts on Nadal and Berdych each? 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, 3‑All right now.   I don't know who I'm going to play.   I've played them both before.   I've never beaten Rafa.   I've beaten Tomas before.   All very close matches, and we'll see what happens.   I haven't thought about that at all. 
First, I got to get an opponent, and then I'll think about it.

Q.   John, Juan Martin was very complimentary of you in the press conference.   He called you a big guy and was proud of you for the win.   Have you guys always had a good relationship? 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, we have.   He's one of the better guys on tour.   There's no doubt about that.   You ask anyone, and they will say the same. 
That's just how he is.   He's a very, very good guy.   I have nothing but the most respect for him.   You know, we are good friends in the locker room.   We're always saying hi.   We're very, very cordial with each other, and he's‑‑ as I said, he's a class act and a very good guy. 
Just as, you know, I think guys at the top of our game right now are all very, very classy individuals.

Q.   John, any concerns about Winston‑Salem next week and your participation there? 
JOHN ISNER:   I haven't thought about that.   I'm just‑‑ I'm not thinking about next week at all, not thinking about the US Open at all.   I'm thinking about getting myself ready for tomorrow and then try to come out and see what I can do. 
My main focus is tomorrow and getting myself fit for that match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT