WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2013
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ISNER/M. Raonic
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   John, in a match between two of the tour's top two servers, how much do you think your serve really set the tone for today's match? 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I mean, going in, both of us, our main weapons are our serves.   So I knew that going in. 
But I mean, I think what needs to be said is I don't think Milos, he wasn't 100% today.   So I'm not going to sit here and say I beat a 100% healthy Milos. 
His arm/shoulder is bothering him.   I hope it's not like a serious issue, you know, and with rest he can be ready for the US Open.   But he didn't have his normal pop on his serve today like he usually does. 
Unfortunate for him, I guess; fortunate for me.

Q.   Do you prepare any differently when you play a big hitter?   It's like preparing to play yourself. 
JOHN ISNER:   No, I don't prepare any differently no matter who I'm playing.   I try to do the same thing before every match and try to emulate the same game plan no matter who I'm playing. 
Today threw me for a little bit of a loop because I didn't expect‑‑ I didn't know that his shoulder was bothering him like that.   I saw the end of his match yesterday and he was pretty amped up.   He was hitting some normal Milos Raonic serves. 
So didn't expect that today.   It was a weird match as far as that goes, because, you know, if he's 100% fit, the match sort of takes a different course with him serving normally a lot better.

Q.   Two big servers on a non‑Hawkeye court, that had to have been frustrating at times just to deal with the blind calls and things like that. 
JOHN ISNER:   I knew going in that that court didn't have Hawkeye.   And I know how hard it is to call lines period, especially on serves coming from two guys with big serves. 
But as I said before, Milos wasn't hitting his normal serve, and I still felt like there were a lot of missed calls. 
I don't mind playing out there, but I think that court should have Hawkeye.   I thought there were a lot of missed calls today.   They went for me and against me.   I'm not saying it was all against me or anything.
But I think on a court like that, when you're playing some pretty important matches, I think Hawkeye would be nice, because I felt like there were some missed calls today.

Q.   How much of a priority do you think the tour should make getting Hawkeye on more, if not all, courts? 
JOHN ISNER:   Well, I know it's expensive at the same time, but I guess being at a combined event, a Masters for us‑‑ is it the Masters for the women?

Q.   Premier. 
JOHN ISNER:   Premier, sorry.   And a premier for them, I think‑‑ I'm not saying they should have it on every court, but on a court that's a big size court that they just built a couple years ago, you know, and that they are playing round of 16 matches on, very, very important matches, these aren't‑‑ no offense, like first‑round quallies matches.   I don't think those need to have Hawkeye or anything. 
It is what it is.   It went for me today and went against me today.   I'm not complaining about it as far as that goes, but I just felt it would have been nice.

Q.   You just generally feel more comfortable on a court that has it? 
JOHN ISNER:   Uh‑huh.   Even if I'm wrong, you like to know that you're wrong.

Q.   Sort of a different question, Marion Bartoli announced that she's retiring last night suddenly, like about a month after winning Wimbledon.   Just wondering what your thoughts on somebody doing something like that is. 
JOHN ISNER:   Well, yeah, it was unexpected, I think, for everybody, especially me.   You know, after Wimbledon, she's coming here, and you wouldn't expect her to retire at this tournament.   Maybe next year's Wimbledon or something.   I don't know what it is. 
But I guess she knows her body better than anyone else, and if she says she's in a lot of pain playing every time she takes the court, maybe she just doesn't want to deal with that anymore. 
So more power to her.   She had a great career and capped it off on a very high note.   I'm not talking about losing here, I'm talking about winning Wimbledon. 
Not many people can call themselves a Grand Slam champion, but she can.

Q.   Obviously this is a lot of years away for you, but have you thought about how you want to exit the sport someday? 
JOHN ISNER:   No, I have not.   I think what's encouraging for me is on the men's tour, you're seeing guys play into their 30s, and play very, very well into their 30s.   So I believe that I can do that well.   I feel like I take care of myself. 
You know, I don't play the longest points in the world either.   I play some long matches, but I don't play the longest points in the world. 
I certainly haven't thought about that.   I feel like I can play for five, six more years.

Q.   John, there's been a lot of talk about first time there's no American men in the top 20.   What does that mean to you?   Do you take it personal?   Do you feel like you have to carry the torch, or do you just take care of yourself? 
JOHN ISNER:   No, I don't care at all, actually, about that.   I don't take it personally.   I just worry about myself.   I've said this before, that I didn't even know I was going to play professional tennis until I was 21 years old. 
So everything I've done has been a big bonus to me.   I never felt like I was a guy who was going to carry American tennis at all.   The fact that I ever even made it to the top ranked American is a huge surprise for me, and I feel very proud that I can say that. 
So as far as that goes, I don't really care.   I'm just worried about myself and trying to play this sport as long as I can, because I realize I'm in a very fortunate position to do what I do.   So I want to do it as long as possible.

Q.   You're right back in next week, by the way. 
JOHN ISNER:   Sorry?

Q.   You're already back in for next week, top 20. 
JOHN ISNER:   Really?   So it just happened one week.

Q.   So maybe you do care now. 
JOHN ISNER:   Maybe you won't ask me that question anymore.

Q.   Sorry to take you back to D.C., the final against Juan Martin, but how often have you had to dodge a ball from the baseline like you sort of did in that match? 
JOHN ISNER:   Oh, when I was at the net?

Q.   Yeah. 
JOHN ISNER:   Oh, sorry.   Not often, but I also never had a forehand hit that‑‑ but you know what, I practiced a lot with James Blake before, and he tries to take my face off a lot. 
But that one was hit very hard, hit right at me.

Q.   Is there a bigger weapon, perhaps other than your serve, than his forehand when it's going? 
JOHN ISNER:   I think when his forehand is on, it's the most powerful forehand in the game.   He's got unbelievable timing on that thing and he pops it. 
So, yeah, his forehand is, if not the best forehand in the game, it's one of them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT