THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 4, 2019
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KUKUSHKIN/J. Isner   
6-4, 6-7, 4-6, 6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You said your expectations were measured coming in here.  I'm curious what you make of how your tournament ends today?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I mean, it's very disappointing to lose, of course.  Yeah, I mean, I think my lack of preparation certainly showed today.   
I knew something like that was very possible.  Unfortunately, that was the case today.   
 Q.  In addition to lack of preparation, what was your fitness level at the start of the match and how are you feeling right now?  
JOHN ISNER: Right now, I mean, I feel fine.  The most important thing is my foot's fine.  My fitness, definitely not there.  There's no doubt.  I was just able to put weight on my foot about 10 days before the tournament, so this is the first time I was able to put all my weight on my foot.  It had been a long time on the shelf.   
 Q.  I assume you have a pretty full summer with the hard court schedule?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Atlanta, D.C., Canada, Cincy?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, that's for sure the plan.  But I do think that my body needed these matches, actually, the stress from these matches.  Now I feel like I'm back into, you know, match mode, I guess, whereas coming into this tournament I was definitely not.  It definitely is good for my body ultimately, and everything held up well.   
Now I can really start to, I think, practice and train and try to get back to the level that I'd like to be at.   
 Q.  So what's the mental boost of getting through kind of unscathed, at least from a physical standpoint?  
JOHN ISNER: No, it's a big one.  It's a big one.  It stinks going out early in this event, for sure.  But it's not all bad.  I go back home and I can really start to practice and work out and get myself back into better shape with each day.   
The best way I'm going to get in shape is by playing matches, so it's a good time of year for me coming up.  I like playing the hard courts at home.  So the plan is just get ready for that.   
 Q.  On a different subject, what do you make of Coco mania?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, well, it's warranted, for sure.  It's a remarkable story.  She's a very nice girl.  I know her a little bit.  I know her dad a little bit, as well.  They're both very nice, in my opinion.   
You know, you have heard her name a little bit the last few years, because she's so young and she was doing some good things in juniors, winning some big events.  Now for her to play well on this stage, I think, is very cool.  Certainly probably, to this point, the story of the tournament so far.  So it's very cool to see.   
She's so young, and I think most importantly she has a great head on her shoulders.  She's very calm and measured.  At least to my naked eye, it seems like that.  She's got a great future.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts about the Serena Williams/Andy Murray mixed doubles alliance?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I don't really have much thought about that.  I don't really care, to be honest (smiling).   
It's great to see Andy back.  We're all happy about that.  But at the end of the day, it's mixed doubles and it's cool to see that, but I didn't give it any second thought.   
 Q.  I'm curious if you saw the news about the Tomic fine today?  
JOHN ISNER: No.   
 Q.  He got fined 100% of his prize money for poor effort and performance in his first round.  I don't know if you saw that match.  Curious also from player council perspective of sort of precedent set they can -- the match was 2, 1, 4.  
JOHN ISNER: I know the first two sets were, like, 34 minutes or something like that.   
 Q.  6-4 in the third.  Curious what you think of that.  
JOHN ISNER: I'm okay with it.  I mean, like, you're at this tournament, and, you know, you're playing for a lot of money.  I don't know if he knew that that was a possibility, but, you know, when you get to this stage you want to -- I didn't see any of the match, but obviously for him to be fined that much, whole prize money, is pretty significant.  You've got to show up to the best of your ability, especially if you're healthy.   
So personally, I'm okay with that.  It doesn't look good for our game.   
 Q.  What do you think of the disparity in the tiebreaker rules at the different majors?  
JOHN ISNER: I think it's actually pretty cool.  I mean, I like how now each event is different.  So, yeah, I mean, all four events are completely different.  I think that's pretty unique.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT