WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 14, 2013
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ISNER/R. Gasquet
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions?  
   
 Q.   Relatively easy today?   
JOHN ISNER:   It wasn't that easy actually.   The second set maybe was on the easier side, but the first set very easily could have gone his way.   
Fortunately for me it went mine, and it gave me a lot of momentum.   I think his level might have dropped a little bit in that second set, and I was able to take advantage of it.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you were moving pretty good, John, in both sets.   Do you think that maybe surprised him a little bit?   
JOHN ISNER:   I don't know.   I mean, I'm feeling very good physically right now.   You know, yesterday I felt like I moved pretty well too.   I'm getting to some balls that maybe my opponents aren't thinking that I'm getting to.   But that's not how I want to be winning points anyway.   
So I'm feeling good.   I feel like I'm a decent mover for a guy my size.   I'm trying to do what I can given how big I am on the court.  
   
 Q.   When you were sitting in Atlanta with that trophy next to you you said you hoped to not see it for over a month because you were going to be on the road.   Did it feel good to actually have that seven days, six days off, and you think that's going to pay off the next couple weeks at the Open?   
JOHN ISNER:   Up in Montreal, that was a match that I lost that I feel like I should have won.   I said this yesterday:   I feel like it could have been a blessing in disguise because I really was going nonstop up until that point.   
So, you know, it wasn't six days off, but it was six days no matches, you know what I mean?   So I rested for a day and a half, but then I just did little things in the gym here or there just to get my body ready.   
I started practicing a little bit.   I wasn't practicing too hard.   I knew I was playing well, but everything I did during that time was to get myself ready for this tournament.   I've gotten to the point where I know myself and I know my body pretty well, so I did some good work in that little time off.  
   
 Q.   How has the weather here affected you at all?   
JOHN ISNER:   It doesn't affect me.   I love it.   I absolutely love this weather.   When it's really hot and really humid, that's when I struggle.   So this is very welcoming for me.   I hope this keeps up.   It was perfect out there.  
   
 Q.   I was just thinking because when you get to New York it can be really awful out there.   Is there anything about...   
JOHN ISNER:   As far as heat goes?  
   
 Q.   Well, humidity and nastiness.   
JOHN ISNER:   Bottom line, I feel like New York is always the most tame of the events we play.   Nothing compares to Atlanta, in my opinion.   Some of those matches I've played there has been pretty hot, but even Atlanta this year was a lot cooler than normal; same goes for D.C.   
I think that's actually one of the reasons I'm feeling very, very fresh up to this point and I've played a lot of matches.   I don't think the humidity‑‑ it hasn't been that high, and that's what really, really gets to me sometimes.  
   
 Q.   John, you're talking about conditions in New York, and the USTA, they announced they're going to have plans for a retractible roof over Ashe.   Just wondering what your thoughts on that were.   
JOHN ISNER:   That's pretty cool.   When are they expecting it to be done?  
   
 Q.   I don't think they've said yet.   
JOHN ISNER:   Okay, well, hope maybe I can still be playing when that roof is up.   That would be pretty neat.   I can't imagine the expense of it and how they're going to do it, but it will be really cool.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's something the tournament needed?   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, over a two‑week period in the summer, end of summer, beginning of fall, chances are it's going to rain at least a little bit.   It has pushed the final back the last three years or something.   
I remember two years ago the rain was brutal, and it was three straight days or something like that.   
Yeah, if it helps the tournament go smoother, I think yeah.  
   
 Q.   John, can you talk a little bit about the Bryans going into the US Open.   I know you know them pretty well.   And how much they've achieved, it's like pretty incredible.   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, those guys are the best in the world, and they have been the best in the world for such a long time now.   Even at, what are they, 35 years old, they're having arguably their best year ever, and they have a very good shot of holding all four slams and the Olympic gold, which I don't think has ever been done.   
They had an incredible year, and they certainly deserve it because those guys work extremely hardat what they do.   
They have a great coach in their corner.   He cuts no corners.   He gets these guys prepared.   They're very well‑prepared and they're very good and they know each other very well too.   Certainly doesn't hurt.   
They're the best of all time, in my opinion.  
   
 Q.   Have you been able to take any lessons fromthem?  
JOHN ISNER:   No.   Because I'm 0‑13 career against those guys, and it drives me crazy.   Various different partners, and I cannot beat them.   It's really annoying.  
   
 Q.   John, I was just wondering what your reaction was to your grandpa's homemade shirts.   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah.   That's funny, huh?   Yeah, he went over to play gin rummy with his other 80‑something‑year‑old friends, and one of his friends who's actually real tech savvy and has an iPhone and knows how to text message and do everything.   The other ones don't, but he doesn't either.   
He had these shirts made and all of them were wearing it.   I heard they were wearing it around town too, which is completely awful.   It's one thing to show up at my mom's house in it, but it's funny.   He has a very good sense of humor about it.   
I didn't know how‑‑ he's a little old school‑‑ how he would‑‑ what he would think of that photoshoot that I did.   He thought it was all good.  
   
 Q.   Have you seen it in person or just via picture?   
JOHN ISNER:   I have not seen it in person, just in a picture.   I haven't asked for it to be shipped to my house yet.  
   
 Q.   Is he coming to the US Open?   
JOHN ISNER:   I don't think so.   That's a little tough for him.   He probably won't go there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT