U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2012
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ISNER/J. Nieminen
  6‑3, 6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What was going on with the let calls and the chair umpire?
JOHN ISNER:   Well, it wasn't a chair umpire issue; she was doing her job. 

Q.   The machine was going off?
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah.   So I got a little frustrated with her.   But it wasn't at her, it was more directed at the device, which I think sometimes malfunctions. 

Q.   There were a couple times where it looked like it was six inches over the net. 
JOHN ISNER:   I know.   I think it happens when it's windy sometimes.   I don't know exactly what it is, but, yeah, it happened certainly on a big point in that second set, too. 

Q.   After you lost the breaker you had a quick hold.   You netted a return early in the third and looked really disheartened.   What was your state of mind at that moment and what turned it around for you?
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, the third set was a little tricky.   I was down two or three breakpoints I know in that third set.   Something clicked at 5‑4 me, 40‑15 him serving.   I reeled off four straight points.   It hit four great forehands and won that set and had the momentum from there. 
Got one more break in the fourth set and held on with my serve.   It could have been easier, but, yeah, I was happy with how I overcame that second set, a set I arguably could have won. 

Q.   Looking at your body language, it looked for a good part of that match that you were fighting yourself.   More negative behavior than we might usually see. 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I probably could have exhibited better body language.   Then again, I felt like I was in control.   You know, a lot of times when it looks like I'm being really negative, I'm in a control.   A lot of times when it looks like I'm really, really tired, you know, I'm a little tired, but I always have a little bit left in the tank. 
So my body language gets picked on every once in a while, but I know what I'm doing. 

Q.   Do you feel sometimes actually maybe it pumps you up a little bit, the way you get emotional during your matches?
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah.   I mean, it's something I need to work on.   I need to try not to get too high and try not to get too low.   Certainly in today's match there were some low points and it affected me a little bit. 
But the thing is, if I am being a little negative, if my body language is a little negative, I always have my serve to rely on to at least keep me in the match. 
That's what happened in that third set.   I was a little ticked off not winning the second set, but I was holding serve. 
Things eventually started rolling my way. 

Q.   How confident does this victory make you feel about the next round?   Have you played Kohlschreiber or Paire before?
JOHN ISNER:   I didn't even know who I was playing.   If I play Kohlschreiber, I've played him a few times.   I've played Paire once.   I've won those matches. 
I'll take the court very confident.   No matter who I'm playing, I'm going to take the court very confident.   I know if I play Kohlschreiber or Paire, I know it's going to be a tough match. 
You don't get to this stage of a Grand Slam tournament‑‑ you know, the matches are always tough, so I'm going to have to really just go out there in my next match and just do what I've been doing, and that's serve well and try to take my chances when I get them. 

Q.   You're going to be asked this all tournament, but what are your thoughts on Andy retiring?
JOHN ISNER:   It caught me by surprise, to be honest.   I had no idea.   It really was a secret.   I guess Serena knew.   I saw what she said.   I had no idea. 
I don't know.   I guess he's a guy that he was top 10 for so, so long.   His ranking's dipped a little bit.   He actually has said in the past he would never be content with just hanging around, so I guess he sort of lived up to his word. 
You know, it was his call.   When this tournament is over for him, he's going to be able to look back on an incredible career, a Hall of Fame career in my opinion.   He chose a good tournament to go out with, too. 
Whether he wins this title or eventually succumbs to someone, it's going to be a good moment. 

Q.   He mentioned your name as one of the players that's going to be the torch bearer for American tennis.   How does that make you feel?
JOHN ISNER:   I don't know.   I haven't really thought about it.   I'm the highest‑ranked American.   He's going to retire.   He's not going to be a threat to me there either. 
I don't know.   It is what it is.   You know, I want to be the No.1 American for a long time, but it doesn't put any extra pressure on me.   I feel like we have a good group of guys still around:   Mardy, Sam, myself.   There's a bunch of guys, Ryan Harrison, Jack Sock, that are up‑and‑coming. 
American tennis is in pretty decent shape, in my opinion. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT