ROGERS CUP MEN
August 11, 2012
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/J. Isner
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You seemed to be relaxed throughout the match.   Was there something on your mind?
JOHN ISNER:   Sorry? 

Q.   You seemed to be pretty relaxed throughout the match.   Was there something on your mind that didn't allow you to produce the shots that you wanted to or get the results that you wanted?
JOHN ISNER:   No.   I don't think it wassomething ‑‑ nothing was weighing on me.   You know, I didn't quite have my legs underneath me today, so that made it tough.   I thought he played a good match.   He made me play a lot of balls, and I justmissed way too much.
If I want to win a match like that, I have to play better. 

Q.   And in terms of you saying you didn't have your legs out there today, in terms of physical training, what do you think that you should be working on in order to...
JOHN ISNER:   I train hard.   I work hard.   So I do what I need to do. 

Q.   Gasquet's backhand, talk about the challenges being across the net and having to deal with that kind of spin and shot?
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, it's tough.   It's world class.   It's just a gift of his, really.   The backhand is pretty good.   It's tough for me because I like to take the majority of my shots if I'm playing a righty to his backhand, and he was able to handle that pretty well.
The shots that I did make‑‑ I made a lot of mistakes, but he was just a lot better than me today.   He deserved the win.   Nothing much else to it.   He was just the better player really in all facets.

Q.   John, how much of a factor were the conditions? 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, it was different.   Certainly very different.   It was weird.   Get here and it's pouring down rain when I arrived to the courts, and next thing you know it stops raining and you get 100 people out there and the courts are ready to go.   Didn't get to warmup for the match.
It was cold and a bit slower out there, so it was different conditions than we've played in all week, I would say.   But it was the same for both of us, and he handled it a lot better.

Q.   Where would you say your form is at the moment?   Are you totally satisfied with things right now?   Do you feel you need to move up a few more notches?
JOHN ISNER:   No, I mean, I've played well lately.   I guess my past four tournaments, including the Olympics, I've played at a pretty good level, which I'm happy about.   There is always room for improvement.   I didn't win every match, so there is always room for improvement.
I feel like I'm playing pretty well and I'm trending the right way heading into the US Open, so, for me, that's very important.   Because I was playing like crap, quite honestly, during the clay court season and at Wimbledon.   I wasn't play too well.   So I seem to have fixed that a little bit.
But, you know, there is always room to improve, so that's what I'm going to try to do.

Q.   There is a Sharko stat floating around that Richard had 29 of 33 service points on his own serve.   Obviously it's a different serve than what you dealt with last night with Milos.   Talk about the challenges of dealing with Gasquet's serve and why it's effective. 
JOHN ISNER:   You know, it's certainly a very good serve.   Everyone has a good serve, I think.   I felt like today he made a lot of first serves, and that's important.   I think when he makes first serves he's able to sort of get control of the point.   That's what he did today.   I couldn't do anything to stop him the whole match really.
So, yeah, for me, I felt like he made a lot of first serves, and it was tough to come back from there.   But it could have been better on my part. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT