LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
August 1, 2012
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ISNER/J. Tipsarevic
  7‑5, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tell us your thoughts on this match.   Could have gone either way.   The second set tiebreak was tied.   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, it could have gone either way.   The second set, nothing much separated us.   He made a mistake serving at 6‑4.   Kind of got me back into that tiebreaker.   Pretty much the whole tiebreaker ‑ I want to see the stats ‑ I think I only missed one first serve.   I served incredibly well.   I was a little fortunate he double‑faulted.   
It was a crazy tiebreaker.   I think it was 16‑14, it says.   Not often do you play a tiebreaker that long.   But it was a fun match.   
   
 Q.   What about the next round?   That is one of the showcase quarterfinal matches against Roger.   
JOHN ISNER:   It's going to be a very fun experience.   I hope to play on Centre Court.   I've never played on that court before.   To get a chance to play Roger on that court would be pretty special.   
We played twice this year.   I've beaten him once.   He's beaten me once.   I'm going to head into the match believing I can win because I have done it once already this year.   Then again, he's playing better than anybody on the tour right now.   
It's certainly an incredibly tough match.   I'm going to have to play my best if I want to win.   
   
 Q.   How much more effective is your serve on the grass now with the regeneration of the court since Wimbledon?  
JOHN ISNER:   I don't know.   I feel like my serve is pretty effective no matter the surface.   I don't care if it's mud, grass, clay or hard, my serve is my serve.   
   
 Q.   What do you have to do the same from the last match?  
JOHN ISNER:   I have to do the exact same thing.   I have to go for my shots.   Anytime I get a ball I can hit, I'm going to have to hit it big.   I can't rally with Roger.   It's as simple as that.   If I try to get in rallies with him, he's going to beat me.   
I'm going to have to take my chances, rip my shots, go for my forehand, go for my serve, see what happens.   
   
 Q.   You said after that match that's what you have to do in every match.   Have you been able to do that in the past couple of months?  
JOHN ISNER:   I feel like I'm doing it better now.   It's not as easy as it sounds, as it seems, but I feel like I am doing that pretty well now.   When I am playing well and playing free, swinging, going for my shots, I tend to have good results.   
   
 Q.   What are you going to do differently or the same tomorrow?  
JOHN ISNER:   I need to serve well.   On return, I'm going to go for it.   Not be too crazy, but I'm going to have to try to dictate play.   If he's on the offense, I don't really stand a chance.   
It's going to be a very fun match, I'm looking forward to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT