WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2012
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. FALLA/J. Isner
  6‑4, 6‑7, 3‑6, 7‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel that one got away from you?   And how so?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, it did.   It did.   I didn't put my opponent away.   I had my chances, and I didn't do it.   It's all on me.   Was just not great on my part.  
   
 Q.   What did you do leading up to here?   Did you prepare any differently or just try and relax about the French or what was the process?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I had to take some time off after the French, and I was back and forth from North Carolina and Florida for family reasons.   But, no, I mean, I did what I normally do.   I felt fine coming into here.   
It's just now I get out there sometimes, and lately it's happening quite a lot, and I get out there in the match and I'm just so clouded.   I just can't seem ‑‑I just can't seem to figure things out.   I'm my own worst enemy out there.   It's all mental for me, and it's pretty poor on my part.  
   
 Q.   Is there something going on family‑wise you can share with us?  
JOHN ISNER:   No.   You know, I was back and forth from there.   It doesn't need to be elaborated on, but it's not a reason why I didn't win or anything, not at all.  
   
 Q.   I assume you had a game plan before you went out on court.   So when you go out on court, you're forgetting what you talked about before?   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I just ‑‑I get so clouded and so frustrated.   You know, I just ‑‑I don't know.   I just get out there, and it's happened my last match at the French.   Happened here again.   I just can't get out of my own way.   Just don't do the right things during the course of the match, what I need to do.   
I'm just getting too down on myself.   There has certainly been better times than right now.  
   
 Q.   After you lost the fourth‑set breaker, I'm thinking that might have been critical because you have to go into the fifth again, or are you thinking about France or thinking about Lopez in Australia that is sort of inevitable that in the fifth you're not going to be able to pull it off?  
JOHN ISNER:   No.   I mean, I felt like I could have or should have won it in the fourth set, and that hurt me quite a lot.  
You know, obviously when you're so close to winning a match in four, that it's going to five, I just mentally ‑‑I don't know.   I just got even more clouded and more frustrated out there.  
   
 Q.   Is being self‑critical and feeling clouded a function of losing a bit of confidence that you're thinking too much, you're not letting things flow?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I am, I am.   It's nothing‑‑you know, physically I'm fine.   I feel strong and healthy.   
But you make a good point.   I'm not letting things flow.   I want things to sort of ‑‑I'm just trying‑‑I'm forcing things and it's just not going my way, and then I'm just getting frustrated.  
It's something I need to fix, but I haven't been too solid as of late.  
   
 Q.   First time you've experienced something like that?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah.   I mean, certainlyduring the course of a season, there's always highs and lows, and this is quite a bit of a low for me right now.   I don't know how to compare it.   I would have to sit back and think.   
But, yeah, it's just ‑‑I don't know.   I'm just really down on myself right now.  
   
 Q.   You had some really strong results this season.   When did the lack of confidence start to creep in?  
JOHN ISNER:   I don't know.   I didn't play so well on the clay or didn't play as well as I would have liked to have.   I don't know.   Just kinda sorta crept up on me.   
You know, I'm trying not to feel the pressure of, you know, the outside pressure of ‑‑there are some good things expected of me, and, you know, I'm glad I'm in that position, but I'm just not performing right now.   It's just too ‑‑I don't know.   It's just ugly right now.  
   
 Q.   One person has to win, and sometimes maybe it's not all about you.   Could it also be maybe a little bit your opponent?   Paris was a tough match.   It's like it's hard, you know, to blame you.   But don't you think sometimes the opponent...   
JOHN ISNER:   I'm not discrediting my opponent.   He was better than me today, and that's what it comes down to.   You know, I had chances, and I didn't take them.   So on my part, that's my bad.  
So he deserved to win.   I don't deserve to win that match at all.  
   
 Q.   In the big picture, you were really known for your mental strength and your fighting ability early.   This year you have had just some great wins, great performances, and now kind of a big funk.   Can you just put confidence and tennis in a bigger context?   Is it fickle and it comes and goes?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, that's a good point.   It does come and go.   I certainly play a lot better when I am feeling confident, just as everyone does.  
Right now I don't really have that going for me.   So I've got to ‑‑ you know, I've got to get back to the drawing board and just sort of let things go and just try to play out there.   It's just like I'm wanting to win so much that I just get ‑‑I lose control and I lose focus on the process.   
You know, I'm wanting to win more than I'm wanting to, you know, go through what I should do or play how I should play.  
   
 Q.   Is there kind of a two steps forward and then steps back?   Top American, top 10.   
JOHN ISNER:   I've taken some steps back, for sure, I mean, as of late.   It's disappointing.   It's like I can't say that I've taken a step forward.   It's not what has happened.   
You know, I don't know.   I'm just very frustrated right now and just wish I could, you know, play a little better, you know, at the important times of a match.   It's just what I'm not doing right now.   
I mean, a lot of times, you know, in my matches, it comes down to a point here or there, and, you know, things just aren't seeming to fall my way.   That's what happens I guess sometimes when you're not as confident.   
You know, he hit some good shots at important points of the match.   He had one volley he picked up and hit crosscourt back on the line which would have given me match point.   Stuff like that.   Credit goes to him, and he played better than me.   I had my chances, and I didn't take them.  
   
 Q.   Are you trying to push yourself forward on big points?   Are you saying to yourself, Yeah, go, move, move?   Because at times when he was taking the initiative...   
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I am.   It was a little bit tough.   You know, when he was putting the first serve in, I feel like he didn't make too many mistakes out there today.   He played well, but I could have been more aggressive out there, just as I could have been more aggressive in the last match I played and the tournaments prior to that.   
It's really no excuse for me.   You know, I'm serving as well as I have ever served.   There's no excuse to be‑‑ you know, if I'm serving that well, I feel like I should be seeing a little bit better results, but I'm not.   That's my fault.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to stay on grass for a while with a the Olympics coming up?   What are your plans now?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I'm not sure.   I don't really want to think about it right now.  
   
 Q.   Are you in doubles here?  
JOHN ISNER:   No, I'm not in the doubles.  
   
 Q.   So you don't know what your plans are.   
JOHN ISNER:   I'm going to go home, back to the U.S.   But I'll be back here for the Olympics.  
   
 Q.   You have Atlanta, don't you, and something else?  
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I'm playing Atlanta, it looks like.  
   
 Q.   It looks like or...   
JOHN ISNER:   Barring injury or my health, I'm playing Atlanta.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT