AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2012
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. LOPEZ/J. Isner
  6‑3, 6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑7, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You played such a good fourth‑set tiebreaker.   What happened after that?
JOHN ISNER:   I don't really know.   I haven't really thought about it.   It just got away from me. 
I just wasn't as sharp as I needed to be.   Wasn't as mentally sharp as I needed to be at the beginning of that fifth set.
It just kind of spiraled out of control there, and it just‑‑ I couldn't climb out of the hole I dug.

Q.   How bad are your feet or your toes? 
JOHN ISNER:   They hurt a little bit, but, no, I mean, they were bad for a little bit, but the wrap helped.   I mean, that wasn't why I lost, for sure.   It was feeling better.

Q.   Coming off the chair after you win the breaker, what are you thinking about?   What do you have to do?
JOHN ISNER:   I mean, I wasn't really thinking much.   I have been in that situation before.   I was in it in my last round.   I just didn't play too well.   It's really disappointing.

Q.   Playing a second fifth setter in two days, is that a problem of mental fatigue or physical? 
JOHN ISNER:   I honestly felt like it was more mental than anything.   Just like the whole match I wasn't really that sharp, you know, and I wasn't‑‑ I don't know, I just didn't really have it out there today. 
But credit to him.   I thought he played pretty well.

Q.   You're making a bit of a specialism of being involved in so many five‑setters.   You've got quite a list now.   Can you explain why that is?
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, I don't know.   I mean, I have been in‑‑ I haven't been in an extraordinary amount of them, but I don't know.   I mean, I compete pretty well even when I'm not playing that well, so I think that helps to some point.
A lot of times my serve just helps keep me in the match.   As long as I'm competing well, then, you know, if I'm playing against a tough opponent, there's a good chance it can go to a fifth set.

Q.   Talk about matching up against him.   Much different match than against Nalbandian, right?   I mean, he's coming at you, he's playing a ton of slice, he doesn't quite return like Nalbandian, but the volley is more there.   So totally different change, huh? 
JOHN ISNER:   It was, and it wasn't anything like when I played him in November.   He was a lot better today, a lot sharper.   Very different matchup, and I just didn't‑‑ you know, I just didn't do enough. 
It's a tough matchup for me, but still, I didn't do the things I needed to do, and it's really disappointing.   I mean, I competed pretty well, but other than that, it wasn't that great.
But a lot of it has to do with him, and he kept me off balance and his slice was good.   He was in the net.   Volleyed well.   He was just better today.

Q.   So you like you couldn't really dictate a lot?   A lot was played on his terms?
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, to a certain degree it was, for sure.   And really, no matter who I'm playing‑‑ I think it doesn't really matter who I'm playing.   I think with how I can play it should be on my terms, and it just wasn't the case today.

Q.   This is the first time ever no Americans in the fourth round at the Australian Open.   Any comment on that?   Men's game in transition.   Obviously Roddick is feeling it physically. 
JOHN ISNER:   No, it's very disappointing.   That's not a good effort from the Americans this tournament.   And, you know, I knew going in today I was the last one left and I wanted to keep on going, but just didn't happen.
But it's very ugly, to be honest, to have no one in the Round of 16.   We've got to try to rectify that next time the big tournaments roll around.

Q.   Can you look ahead to Davis Cup?   I assume Andy is not gonna play, so I assume you're gonna be on the team anyway.   Talk about that.   That's going to be a huge challenge if Roger plays, huh? 
JOHN ISNER:   Yeah, it will.   If he plays, him and Stan, that's not an ideal draw for a first round.   But, yeah, it's gonna be tough.   It's away, and, you know, more than likely I think if Roger plays we're probably the underdogs.   We've got to justgo out there and play well.   It's a huge task on the road and whatnot. 
So, yeah, it looks like I will be going, you know, assuming I'm healthy, which I am.   Yeah, that's the next thing on my radar.   Gotta do that and try to play well.

Q.   Do you expect Sam or Mardy to go with you?
JOHN ISNER:   I think Mardy has made himself available, so, you know, I think he will go.   I mean, I would think so.

Q.   Are you going to go home first or hang out and go from here?
JOHN ISNER:   No, I mean, losing at this point in this tournament I have a lot of time to go home.   I think I'll probably leave, you know, the Saturday after the finals of this tournament, so I have plenty of time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT