U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2011
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ISNER/A. Bogomolov, Jr.
  7-6, 6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Seems like since you've been playing at the Open, most of your matches have been out on Armstrong. Does it feel like when you go out there there's almost a home-court advantage at this point?  
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I was actually thinking about my record on that court. I think I'm like 8 or 9 and 1 on that court. I only lost to Verdasco a couple years ago. I like that court a lot and I hope to play there again in my next match, to be honest.   
  
  Q. With your next match, Simon, you never played him before. What do you know about him? What ideas do you have going in?  
 JOHN ISNER: I don't really know too much about him. You know, I know of him. But just seeing his match today, because I was waiting to go on, I was watching a lot of the match, he's definitely a counter-puncher. He does it so well. A lot of times he'll take the air out of the ball. He kind of wants his opponent to go for too much because he's so fast and he gets to everything.   
 I haven't really thought about the game plan for that yet, but I know going in that I'll have to -- I don't want to hang from the baseline with him. Today if you saw Del Potro, he was winded out there and Simon wasn't even sweating. He was just tapping his face with his towel.   
 I'm going to try to keep the points short and serve with a purpose and fight it out. I should, you know, do fairly well.   
  
  Q. How much are you getting to be known as John Isner instead of the Wimbledon guy?   
 JOHN ISNER: I don't really know. Probably more so right now the Wimbledon guy. Making the Round of 16 is nice, but you don't get remembered for making the Round of 16. You have to keep going on. That's my goal.   
  
  Q. Do you have any feelings that we have four Americans in the round of 16? Does that surprise you or make you happy?  
 JOHN ISNER: No, it doesn't surprise me. We had a good amount of players in the main draw to begin with here. And I knew going into my match that there were going to be four players obviously with Alex being an American, as well.   
 That's a quarter of the draw. So, I mean, does any other country have four?   
  
  Q. I don't think so.   
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, so it's pretty impressive.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT