CHINA OPEN
October 8, 2010
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ISNER/N. Davydenko
  7-6, 6-4

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please. 

 Q. How do you feel for you to play the semi for first time in China Open? How do you assess your game right now?
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, this is real big for me. I remember last year this time I played Tokyo, because my ranking wasn't high enough to get into here. I really didn't enjoy it that much. The courts were a little bit too fast for me, and I knew the conditions here would suit my game better.
 I was fortunate enough to be able to get into this tournament, and now I'm just -- obviously I'm real excited to be in the semis, considering how strong this field is. It's a big accomplishment, but I also know I have two matches to go.

 Q. You had 18 aces and not a single double fault in this last match. What role do you think your serve played in your victory?
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, pretty much everything (smiling). He's one of the best returners in the game, and he had a lot of chances. I found, you know, that was when I was able to pull out my best serves when I was down breakpoints. Even when I would miss first serves down breakpoints, I was hitting, you know, really good second serves. Either he would miss it or set me up with an easy forehand type of thing.
 So, you know, without my serve today, there's no way I could have won. You know, it's my main weapon. I'm really gonna need it every match I play.

 Q. The next match is against Djokovic. Do you have any comments about that?
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I mean, I'm gonna have to play probably -- not probably; I'm gonna have to play my best tennis to beat him. He's No. 2 in the world. There's a reason why he's No. 2. I'm gonna have to play really well if I'm gonna have any chance. 

 Q. People are talking about some new candidates for the Davis Cup team. Can you share with some new information that you may know?
 JOHN ISNER: For the head coach? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 JOHN ISNER: For the captain? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I don't really -- I haven't heard much, actually. I know there's, you know, three, four guys in the running, you know, up for the spot, but I haven't heard anything about who it may be. But I know that the guys that they are talking about are very, very good and very capable. Really, the USTA, you know, is not gonna make a wrong decision either way they go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT