CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2010
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ISNER/T. Yang
  7-6, 6-3

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please. 

 Q. (Through translation.) What about the injury on your foot? Is it caused today or was it the old injury? 
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, it was an old injury I did about a month and a half ago in Cincinnati. So because of that, now I have to wear braces and ice my foot every time I play, so it's not as bad as it looks. 

 Q. I know that it's only two months away so the memory must be very fresh. Could you share with us some of the memory during the Wimbledon, the legend match?
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, it's still fresh in my memory. It will probably be fresh in my memory for a long time. It's nothing I'm gonna forget, but, you know, I'm still trying to put it behind me and focus on, you know, a tournament such as this and try to finish out the year strong. So that's my focus. 

 Q. You were just talking about the Wimbledon match and how you've tried to move on from that. But physically, how long did it take you to recover from that match?
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I thought -- I thought it only took me about a week, but, you know, three or four weeks after that match in DC, in the tournament in DC, that's when I really started to feel it. I wasn't feeling like my normal self. I was just really fatigued out there. I don't know if -- I probably didn't take enough time off. 
 It definitely took a toll on me, but I think now it's definitely behind me, and I'm feeling fresh. I'm not feeling any lasting effects from that match. 

 Q. I believe you had a chance to meet President Obama during your time in DC, so what did he say to you about this match? How did people in your hometown react after you were going back to your home?
 JOHN ISNER: I didn't meet him. (Laughter.)
Q. You were going to meet him with Sam?
 JOHN ISNER: No, it was just Sam, Sam and the Bryan brothers.

 Q. Sorry about that. 
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah.

 Q. How did people react when you were going back to home? Friends and families. 
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, they were -- it was kind of crazy, obviously, because, you know, the match got a lot of attention. So, I mean, really millions of people were watching it. 
 So the people that were close to me, my friends and family, you know, they were just happy that, you know, that I was a part of that match and that I was able to win it. So, you know, those are the people that I was sharing the good memories with. 

 Q. You seemed kind of tired, maybe a little bit frustrated on the court today. Was there anything in particular that was working against you?
 JOHN ISNER: Well, I was -- I had some chances in the first set that I didn't really capitalize on, so that was kind of frustrating. 
 It's my first match since the US Open, so sort of a long layoff. You know, I wasn't maybe as sharp as I probably needed to be, but that being said, I was really fortunate to get through. This is such a tough tournament, so I hope to continue to get stronger as the tournament goes on. 

 Q. There are some concerns that the American male tennis might be fading a little bit after Andy dropped out of the top 10 for first time in four years. People are saying that especially you and also Sam and some newcomers, like 18-year-old --
 JOHN ISNER: Ryan.

 Q. -- yeah, Ryan, should be stepping in to maybe lift the flag of the American tennis. So how do you think about that?
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I don't really feel like American tennis is fading, because right now we have four players inside the top 25 of the world with Andy, myself, Sam, and Mardy.
 You know, there's a bunch of guys right behind us, so I don't -- you know, there's nobody in the top 5, obviously, but I think that -- I don't think American tennis is in bad shape at all, especially with us four, you know, the four I just mentioned doing pretty well.

 Q. So you do have the confidence?
 JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I think -- you know, Mardy, he's been playing longer -- he's been playing just as long as probably Andy has, but he's playing his best tennis ever. He's kind of resurrected his career. 
 Sam and I are both on the way up, so I think -- actually, I know that Sam and I are gonna continue to get better and hopefully eventually get inside the top 10. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT