THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 11, 2018
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. ISNER/M. Raonic   
6-7, 7-6, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  At a tournament that you described as formerly being a house of horrors, how would you describe what you're feeling in your head and heart as you're reaching the semifinals?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, pure elation right now.  Very, very happy to be in this position right now in the semifinals.  With how I'm feeling physically and mentally, I'm in a very good spot.  I think I can keep doing damage here.   
This is amazing.  It's by far the best Grand Slam I've ever played in my career, and I've been playing for 11 years.  I'm super happy.  To do it here at Wimbledon makes it even a little bit more special.   
 Q.  You're so much associated with this tournament for another reason obviously.  What does it mean to have it really be all about going deep?  
JOHN ISNER: Of course, everyone is going to remember that match in 2010, and rightfully so.  I like to think that since that match, I've done a lot of good stuff on the court performance-wise.  But for a lot of people, that's definitely the lasting image of my career.   
I think if I can keep going further here, I can maybe squash that.   
 Q.  I don't know if you felt this way coming into this tournament or if it started that you feel this way after a round or two.  
JOHN ISNER: For my very first practice, we landed on Monday before the tournament, came in from Dallas.  I had a light hit on Monday, felt pretty good.  I knew I was in a good spot.  Physically I've felt awesome.  The courts didn't seem too fast, as I said earlier.  I felt in the past maybe they've felt a little bit too fast for me.  Courts have been excellent.   
Certainly I'm definitely surprised to be in the semifinals now.  But with how I've played this whole tournament, it's not that surprising.  You can prepare as best as you possibly can and do all the right things, but you can go out there and not play as well sometimes.  But I've played very well this whole tournament so far.   
 Q.  You had a long wait to get on.  What was it like waiting through that match?  Also seeing the result, knowing you were going to play the winner, it wasn't going to be the guy who won this tournament eight times.  
JOHN ISNER: Incredible result for Kevin.  I mean, he showed a lot of - what can you say - gumption, I guess.  Hate to use that word (smiling).  Coming back from two sets to love, down a match point in the third set, incredible effort by him.   
As far as waiting, look, I can never complain about that.  There were some poor souls that were -- I don't know who it was, that were playing after me in 2010, that never got on the court.  I wasn't complaining at all.  I was just laughing about it.   
But I stayed ready.  I warmed up a few times.  I ate the proper amount of food.  I was ready to go.   
As far as Kevin winning, whether it was Kevin or Roger, that didn't enter my mind at all, which I think is very good.  But, look, I mean, it's not like I have a huge opportunity now.  Look how well Kevin is playing.  It's going to be extra tough.   
 Q.  We know about your serve being a big part of your game.  What other parts of your game have been working well?  
JOHN ISNER: I've been serving and volleying pretty well.  I think I've covered the net well.  That's something I've worked on a lot.  I've had some game plans in each match.  I've executed them, I think, almost to perfection.   
In the big points, this whole tournament, I've been calm and collected and felt like I've played them well.  When I say 'big points' I'm talking about breakpoints for me, which are essentially set points.  I don't care what juncture it is in the set, I've played those well and calm.  I've played those the right way, and it's paying off.   
 Q.  What are the nuances when you face Kevin?  There are certain things that are obvious.  What do you think might be more subtle aspects when you play Kevin?  
JOHN ISNER: There could be a little mental aspect in our match.  I say that because our rivalry, what have you, goes back way before the pro tour.  We played each other in college probably three, four, five times.  We played each other a bunch on the pro tour.   
We've been lined up against each other for about 14 years now, because he left Illinois when I left Georgia.  We've been doing it ever since.   
For me this matchup, and I think for him as well, is especially cool.  It's a very nice spotlight on college tennis, that one of us, no matter what, is going to be playing in the Wimbledon final.  We're duking it out in the semifinals.  Two of us went to college, did it a little bit different route.  It's pretty cool.   
 Q.  What does it look like when you play?  
JOHN ISNER: We haven't played in a few years, which I think is a little bit weird.  It's always close, always very close.  When you match up with two big servers, inevitably the matches are going to be close.  I'm going to expect a very tough match on Friday.  I think he will expect that, as well.   
 Q.  Did you change your diet any time recently?  I know you're pretty good with that stuff.  Have you done anything more recently?  
JOHN ISNER: I just had a Kit Kat before I came in here.  That's the truth (smiling).   
I had a little bit of a sugar craving.  That's not a normal occurrence for me.  I think after each win throughout these 10 days, I've had a Kit Kat.  I'm not going to change that now.   
But, no, especially when I started learning more and more about how important nutrition and diet is, I've always ate very well.  I still eat a lot.  I have such a big frame.  But for the most part I know what to eat.  I don't eat much pasta.  I never eat pizza.  I don't eat much unhealthy stuff.  For me in large part I'm putting really good fuel in my body.   
 Q.  Do you take any inspiration from Sam's results here?  
JOHN ISNER: No, I don't think that has entered my mind at all.  But he had a very good year last year, for sure, making the semis here, he made the quarters of the US Open.  Whereas I, especially since 2011, you can say I've fallen short in Grand Slams.  It's seven years since my last quarterfinal, so...   
Very happy to get past that step.  Now I'm in the semis.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the importance of playing college ball, how that's important.  On a different topic, marriage is obviously an important thing.  Tell us a little bit how that might have impacted your game.  
JOHN ISNER: Well, look, I've answered this question a lot.  College tennis for me was the perfect avenue to where I am now.  Had I not gone to college, I wouldn't be sitting here right now.  The thought of going pro out of high school never entered my mind.   
Fortunately for me, I think I made a lot of right choices.  The first right choice I made was going to the University of Georgia, enjoying my time there, becoming such a better tennis player while I was at Georgia, becoming a better person.  I matured a lot.  So that school, Manny Diaz set me up perfectly for where I am today.   
As far as marriage goes, I think, look, the results speak for themselves.  I'm in a very, very good spot personally.  My wife and I, we're very happy.  We have a lot of good people around us.  We're expecting our first child in September, as well.  So there's a lot of very cool things going on right now, life-changing things.   
It certainly puts perspective on tennis.  I think takes a lot of pressure off of tennis.  That's one of the reasons I've been playing pretty well this year, is I'm in a good spot.  I wouldn't change anything right now for where I am.  It's perfect.   
 Q.  Back in the day did you and Kevin ever say, Hey, I'll see you at Centre Court?  
JOHN ISNER: Never could have imagined this.  I don't know if you asked him that question.  There's no shot.  Imagine playing each other in the semifinals of the most prestigious tennis tournament we have.   
 Q.  Do you know a boy or girl coming?  
JOHN ISNER: We're having a girl.   
 Q.  Do you have a name?  
JOHN ISNER: We might.  We'll keep that close to the vest, so...   
 Q.  Is this your first match on Centre?  
JOHN ISNER: I've never played on Centre Court at Wimbledon ever.  I played at the Olympics one time.  I have no clue what that court looks like.  I played Roger in 2012.  I can't really remember it.   
 Q.  What would it mean to make a Grand Slam final first time at 33?  
JOHN ISNER: Well, it will be amazing.  It's a huge match, for sure.  Kevin has been there before.  He made the US Open final last year.  I'm trying to get to where he's already been.  He wants to get back there, wants another crack at a championship.  It's going to be a fun match.   
 Q.  You spoke a moment ago about the years not getting as far as you maybe thought you should have at majors.  In what ways has that weighed on you, if at all?  How have you kept belief to get this far at this age?  
JOHN ISNER: It really hasn't weighed on me too much in a negative fashion.  It's disappointing, for sure.  Outside of slams, I've always played pretty well.  I've hung my hat on that, for sure.  Playing well in Masters Series, winning smaller tournaments.  That definitely boosted my confidence, and I'm very proud of that.  But certainly the Grand Slam results haven't been there.   
But now I'm sort of rectifying that, I think.  I'm in the semifinals.  See if I can go further.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT