DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINAL: USA VS BELGIUM
April 6, 2018
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. ISNER/J. De Loore   
6-3, 6-7, 7-6, 6-4   
USA - 1, Belgium - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You moved through the first set pretty easily.  What did he start doing maybe in the second and third sets that gave you a little bit of problem?  
JOHN ISNER: I think he just in general picked up his game.  He started playing very well, making it very tough on me.  But I knew that was a possibility.  I wasn't surprised that match out there went four sets like it did.  I knew he was capable of playing very good tennis.  At times he did that.   
But I think for me, I just stayed the course.  There was a moment there in the second set tiebreaker and early on in the third set where my energy was pretty low, wasn't playing that great, but I was able to pick it up.   
 Q.  The crowd seemed to energize you.  How much of a factor was that in this match?  
JOHN ISNER: It was a big factor.  I think in the third set I was down 4-2 and breakpoint, was able to hold that game, then break back to make it 4-All.   
The crowd was crucial.  They were awesome out there today.   
 Q.  The very first game of the match, you hit a cross-court forehand winner and a pass back-to-back.  That got the crowd into it early on.  How did that help you get started on the right foot?  
JOHN ISNER: The crowd was energized right from the get-go, from the entrances we had, the anthem.  They were very loud from the very first point.   
You're right, I had forgotten about that game.  That was a pretty good game to start off the match.  I played a very good first set.  That set was over maybe in 30 minutes or so.  But it became a much tougher battle after that.   
 Q.  Obviously on paper this was the biggest mismatch of the weekend in terms of rankings.  What is it about the Davis Cup that brings out these tight matches?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, everyone knows that - at least all the players do - the rankings do not really matter in an event like this where you're playing for your country.  My opponent, Joris, he played very inspired.  I knew he would.   
It was a good match for me to get through.  I knew it was going to be tough.  On paper I'm certainly the favorite.  That added some pressure on me, whereas my opponent has a little bit less pressure.  There's always that dynamic going into it, as well.   
It's sports.  Anything can happen.   
 Q.  How nice does it feel to get the U.S. off to a 1-0 lead at this point, with the U.S. trying to make it back to the semifinals?  
JOHN ISNER: It's big, absolutely.  The first match is critical.  We're in a battle to three points.  We had the advantage right now.  So I'm very happy I was able to do my part, so to say, to put our team up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT