DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINAL: USA VS BELGIUM
April 5, 2018
Jim Courier
Steve Johnson
John Isner
Jack Sock
Sam Querrey
Ryan Harrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  John, you're opening it up on Friday.  Coming off probably the biggest win of your career in Miami, what can you take from that win into this week's event?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I can take a lot from that certainly.  Feeling pretty good about my game.  I played very well in Miami.  I was able to really get my game up in fifth gear there.   
I think what's important is you have to be able to shift gears coming back into an event like this, to bring it down a little bit.  Now I have to be able to have the ability to rev it back up, get it back into that fifth gear.   
See if I can do that tomorrow.   
 Q.  I would love to hear from all of you, how has your Nashville experience been so far, what have you been doing?  
SAM QUERREY: So far it's been great.  We were really excited when we found out we were going to play in Nashville.  The arena is great.  The hotel is really night.  We went to WW Smackdown on Tuesday, which was awesome.  Went to a great steakhouse last night.   
We're all really excited to be here.  So far everything has been really nice.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about what it's like playing for your country versus as an individual tennis player.  
JACK SOCK: I think I can speak for all of us.  All of us probably grew up playing team sports at some point.  I think we all thrive in the team atmosphere a little bit.  We don't get many opportunities to play on a team obviously with this career.  Any time we do, we love the atmosphere, the camaraderie.  We all get along really well, talk smack with each other.   
It's a blast and a pleasure to play on a team always.  It's obviously fun because we don't get to do it that often.   
 Q.  Ryan, obviously you and Jack are more singles guys throughout the year on tour, but playing doubles this weekend against a couple guys that are more doubles specialists.  What kind of a challenge does that pose?  
RYAN HARRISON: Those guys are going to have great chemistry.  They've been playing for a while together.  They'll know what to do out there.   
Jack is a great partner.  Has all the accolades you can imagine, has had doubles success.   
We're all very excited to get out there.  I'm fortunate to have a great team.  I think we have a very versatile team.  Even though we all primarily focus on singles, we've all had a lot of doubles success.   
Any way we can help the team is what we're looking to do.   
 Q.  John, how important is that first match to be a tone setter for your team?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, it's very important.  I think -- not I think, but I know.  In Serbia, in our first tie, it was the opposite.  Sam played first.  He played a very good match, was able to put us up 1-0.  That in turn took a lot of pressure off of me.  Sam did a great job in Serbia doing that.   
Just as anyone who has ever played the first match on Friday, it's very, very important, just as every point is.  For me, my job is to go out there, take care of my business to the best of my ability, try to put our team up 1-0.  It's a race to 3.  To get that first point would be very beneficial.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT