ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 3, 2017
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. ISNER/J.M. del Potro   
6-4, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That must have been pretty satisfying.  Were you confident going in?  It was a tough opponent.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah.  It was very satisfying and I was confident going into this match.  I took the court knowing that I've been playing pretty well.  And also playing with a bit of house money after yesterday, you know, being down 5-2 in the third set.   
So you know, I sort of escaped yesterday and was given some new life today and I think I took advantage of it.   
 Q.  I suppose you would have been preparing yourself to face Nadal and now you're facing someone you've never played before.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah.   
 Q.  And most people have never played before.  How does that change your approach and what do you make of the match?  
JOHN ISNER: Well, I definitely wasn't preparing to play Rafa, I mean, today.  It was all about del Potro.   
Of course, you would think Rafa if he took the court would be the favorite in that match.  But I think it just goes to show how physical tennis is, especially with someone like Rafa who's played a lot this year.  I don't know what's going through his head, but I can't control that.   
So whether I was playing Rafa or Filip tomorrow, it's going to be a pretty similar game plan for me.  So that's what I'm focusing on.   
 Q.  I know you've worked really hard on your net game.  How is it coming along do you think?  You seem to be attacking it well.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, it's coming along very well.  I don't serve and volley primarily.  I felt today I was more comfortable on the court.   
In my first-round match I served and volleyed 100% of the time first and second serves.  I did not stay back once.  Because I hadn't gotten my teeth sunk into the tournament.  You just naturally don't feel as great in the early goings.  And against my first-round opponent I didn't want to rally with him at all.   
Today was a little bit different.  I was feeling more comfortable from the back of the court.  So whether I served and volleyed or stayed back, of course I was going to continue to be aggressive and try to finish points at the net.   
So I'll try to do the same tomorrow as well.   
 Q.  You still have a chance to join London.  Do you think about it or not at all?  
JOHN ISNER: Going into this tournament I wasn't thinking about it at all.  I was sort of thinking about what football games I'm going to watch back home when this tournament is over.   
But now, certainly I'm not going to lie to you guys, it's in my mind now.  It would be great to qualify for that.   
But, you know, you get to this stage of a tournament like this, a tournament that I've played well in throughout my career.  So I've given myself a pretty good shot, I think, to qualify for that.  But it's going to be very, very tough.   
So I know at this stage I have to win the tournament.  But as I said, it's going to be very tough.   
 Q.  Just the fact that you played so well against Murray in the final give you confidence that you can win a tournament?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah.  But look, I mean, if I'm able to win tomorrow, I will have some confidence in the finals.  But look, I'm playing someone who came through qualifying, and I've seen him play a little bit this week and he's played with a lot of energy and a lot of momentum right now.  So it's going to be very tough.  The match is going to be tough.   
I don't blow people off the court.  So I know this match tomorrow really could go either way.   
 Q.  You have spoken about playing well here and feeling that you're playing well here since you get here.  What is it about this tournament?  What is it about Paris that inspires you so?  I know it's not just to please the crowd when you say those things.  
JOHN ISNER: Well, it's something about, I think, the mentality that I take here.  Well, it's the last tournament of the year, and it's one of those things you just give it your all.  There's not another tournament after.  If you're feeling beat up or tired after this event, you have two months to rest and recoup.   
So I think that has something to do with it.  I think more than anything also, I also enjoy Paris, especially this time of year.  I think the weather is great.  Actually, it's really refreshing.  It's not hot at all and it's not too cold either.  And you're in one of the most beautiful cities in the world.   
So I think with my old age I've started to appreciate that more.  I'm not just a guy that enjoys being back home in America, whereas five, six, seven years ago that was the case.  I would be looking to get out of here.   
But I enjoy myself so much here.  It's amazing.  So I think more than anything that's one of the reasons I've played well here in the past.   
 Q.  How have you been able to stay healthy so late in the season with so many other players being injured?  I mean, you're 6'10 and you were really defending today.  I notice you have some type of cup marks on your back.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, that's nothing.  That's just some sort of form of treatment.  It might look bad but it doesn't hurt at all.   
You know, I don't know.  I mean, as you said, I'm very tall.  I'm also the heaviest player on tour.  I'm lugging around a lot of weight out there.  You just have to chalk it up to me being a professional and taking care of myself.   
Everything I do off the court and when I'm in the gym lifting weights or stretching or doing conditioning, I try to just keep my body feeling as fit as possible at all times.  I'm fine taking three, four weeks off of tennis, but I rarely take, really, any days off of going in the gym.  When I do do that I find myself feeling horrible and that's when I start to get hurt.   
So I just take care of myself well and I know what it takes, especially now.  So I'm going to keep continuing to do that.  As long as I stay healthy, there's no reason I can't play for, you know, three, four more years.   
 Q.  Just a follow-up on it.  You mentioned the gym.  How important and how strictly do you follow a diet?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah.  I follow diet pretty strict.  I know what to eat, especially when I'm not at a tournament.  I actually cook quite a lot.  So I enjoy to cook, and I eat pretty healthy.   
So there's some times when I am able to cheat a little bit.  Actually, after a match like this, I think any calories are pretty good.  I actually had a cheeseburger so it tasted very good.  I had one yesterday too.  And they cook a good one here.   
So I felt pretty good on the court today.  But, no, I won't have a cheeseburger.  I'm going to eat again later.  It's going to do a little bit healthier.  But diet is, of course, very, very important.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT