U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2017
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. ZVEREV/J. Isner   
6-4, 6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously an uncomfortable opponent to play.  What was not working for you tonight?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I mean, I just -- I mean, a lot of things.  I felt like at times I was close.  I really just couldn't pass him is what it comes down to, plain and simple.   
I had looks.  I had little looks here and there.  Didn't do what I needed to do.  I don't know what it is.  I struggle playing at night at this tournament.  I don't think I've ever won a match at night here.  Haven't lost many matches in the day, so...   
Just I don't know.  It sucks.  You want to play better out there.  It just didn't.   
But, I mean, look, he beat me, so...  Credit to him.   
 Q.  Not being able to pass him, just an execution thing?  
JOHN ISNER: It's what he does.  It's what he does.  He makes it tough.  I'm not Djokovic or Murray hitting passing shots or something.  So it's tough.  Very frustrating, for sure.   
 Q.  What happened with your neck out there?  
JOHN ISNER: It just felt a little stiff.  I mean, pretty odd.  But it's fine.  It's just one of those things.  Wasn't the reason I lost, so...   
 Q.  Was the fact that you were the highest-ranked player in the bottom half of the draw a factor at all?  Were you aware?  
JOHN ISNER: No, I mean, I was aware of the draw.  How can you not be?  Everyone's talking about it.  It's just, you know, I matched up against a player that I thought played pretty well.  I don't know what he would say.   
The court, the conditions, seemed a little slippery out there.  I just wasn't really that comfortable.  Again, as I said, I've fallen short in the night match on that stadium every single time I've played.  So happened again this year.   
 Q.  We're talking a lot about the draw, opportunities for people.  On your side of the building, how does that chatter play out?  Cilic losing...  
JOHN ISNER: Look, I mean, he lost.  It's not like I was on social media or anything.  Literally, I didn't hear a word about it, so...   
 Q.  Do you think you'll be able to keep watching the tournament?  Will you watch Sam?  
JOHN ISNER: I'd rather watch football, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT