U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2017
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. ISNER/P. Herbert   
6-1, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What was it like out there on the court?  Looking at it from the stands, you see all the construction.  Is it playing differently?  
JOHN ISNER: It's a very different feel, of course, than old Armstrong.  Look at that picture right there (smiling).  It's definitely a different feel.  But the court itself, I really enjoyed.  I guess it's just a one-year thing, so...   
I liked playing out there.  I wouldn't mind playing out there again.  It was a good court.   
 Q.  Do you have to adjust to playing different courts or you just got to play?  
JOHN ISNER: No.  Ever seen the old movie Hoosiers?  Every basket is 10 feet.  A tennis court is a tennis court.  It's the same.   
Visually maybe a little bit different.  After a couple games, you get used to it.  That's all there is to it.   
 Q.  What is the state of your game right now?  
JOHN ISNER: I think I'm playing pretty well.  I've had a strong summer.  I thought I played really well today.  I was very happy with how I played.  I'm in a good spot.   
 Q.  What is the mental approach to the opportunities that are here this year with several players out of the draw, a lot of excitement about the American contingent on the men's side?  
JOHN ISNER: For me, it's the same.  I know there's been some unfortunate situations with some of the top players in our game.  But for me nothing changes.  I came into this tournament playing pretty well.  So whether guys like Novak and Kei and Andy and Milos, whether those guys were here, nothing really would have changed for me.  Still a lot of very good players in this tournament that are going to have to be dealt with.  I think I'm one of them.   
 Q.  What do you think about Georgia's game against App State?  
JOHN ISNER: Can be tricky.  App State should have beaten Tennessee last year in Knoxville.  A little nervous.  I mean, you can't call it a look-ahead game because it's the first game of the season.  Then Georgia goes to Notre Dame after that.   
Hopefully, look, they run the ball a lot.  They got a couple good backs, control the game that way.   
 Q.  You had some big days on Armstrong, old Armstrong.  Do you have a favorite in your head?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I mean, I've played on that court, old Armstrong, a lot.  For sure the match I played against Monfils was probably my favorite.  Any time you play him, you're going to be due for a pretty cool atmosphere, especially at a Grand Slam.  So that match was very unique.  I certainly enjoyed that one.   
 Q.  With this weather here, it's staying low 80s, high 70s, who does that benefit?  
JOHN ISNER: I don't know if it benefits really anyone.  Of course, it certainly can help some players.  If it's 90 and humid, that's rough.  For the most part the weather over the years has been pretty temperate at the Open, but especially this year.   
I certainly like it.  Only changed shirts out there one time.  I'm a big sweater.  I like it.  I really would actually say that all the players enjoy it.  We do play matches in pretty oppressive conditions sometimes.  This is not the case so far here at the US Open.   
 Q.  What do you make of what Roger is doing now at age 36?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, incredible, incredible.  It just shows how blessed he is, how hard he works, everything he puts into his craft.  It's certainly amazing.  He plays a pretty effortless game.  I think we've all seen that over the last 16 or so years.   
It doesn't seem like his body takes, like, a huge pounding out there.  Maybe that's one of the reasons he is playing so well.  On top of that, he's got his confidence back.  He has all the shots.   
It's amazing to see.  We're very unfortunate - everyone, us players, we benefit from him playing well.  Gets tennis on the big screen back again.  You guys certainly enjoy him playing well.   
It's a win-win for everyone.  Hopefully he can keep doing this for a long time.   
 Q.  You mentioned his body doesn't take a beating.  On the other side there's Rafael Nadal whose body always seems to take a beating.  Now he's back to No. 1 after a few years.  What do you make of that?  
JOHN ISNER: He does play a more physical game, for sure.  I mean, just how he plays every shot.  Every shot Rafa hits is full power, 100%.  This year he's been very healthy.  Haven't seen any tape on his body, on his knees or anything like that.  He's stayed healthy.  He certainly figured something out.   
Again, it's the same thing as Roger.  To have those two guys at the top of the game, I know Roger is not No. 2 in the world now, but he will be soon, but those two guys to date have had the best year on the tour.  Kind of rewinding the clock back to seven, eight years ago it seems like.  But to have those two guys at the top of the game right now is very special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT