ATP CUP
January 5, 2020
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. MEDVEDEV/J. Isner   
6-3, 6-1   
Russia - 2   
United States - 0   
 Q.  Starting off with your thoughts, no doubt pretty disappointed after that?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I mean, I got my ass kicked out there. So I thought he definitely kind of, he did what he does well, which is make a lot of balls, that's kind of how he was playing last year, so he certainly played well. And so I wasn't even close tonight. Generally with my game I can keep matches close and make it depend on a few points here or there, but that wasn't the case tonight.   
 Q.  What do you put that down to?  
JOHN ISNER: I didn't quite serve as well as I needed to, there's no doubt. I can certainly serve better. And that was trouble once that was the case out there tonight.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to the Australian Open, how worrying is a performance like this, or do you just try to say, now, that's just a one off. That's not going to affect me?  
JOHN ISNER: Well, we'll see. I've been really bad down here the last three, four years, so that trend's certainly continuing right now. So, I don't know, we'll see what happens. But I've definitely not played well in Australia recently. I definitely play my best in the States. We'll see if I can turn that around, though.   
 Q.  Is it the heat that --  
JOHN ISNER: No, it's not hot here at all.   
 Q.  -- or the travel?  
JOHN ISNER: I don't know. Just I'm a home body, I guess. I just -- I don't know. We'll see.   
 Q.  Do you have people here that can help you try to turn it around? Do you have enough support?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I have a coach. That's what he's for, you know, and he's a great coach and we have done a lot of really good things together. So I'll continue to work. I'm not just going to complain and lament my bad form right now. But look, it's all right. I would definitely like to have played better for my team here, but I haven't been able to.   
 Q.  What's the mood like in the U.S. camp? Obviously, you guys --  
JOHN ISNER: We're disappointed, definitely. I mean, Taylor's disappointed. I thought he played a great match today, it just didn't go his way. So we're definitely disappointed. This is not how we wanted to start this tournament and things are pretty dire right now, there's no doubt. So, I mean, we're not, it's not all doom and gloom in the locker room. There's some smiles, but we're not as happy as we would be if we were winning.   
 Q.  How important is it to get some pride back in the final tie?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, definitely. We're not going to go out and put forth a poor effort. It may not go our way like the first two matches, but we're going to try. So definitely what, that's the least we can do. We're so lucky to be here to play a sport and compete in this great event, which a lot of people would kill to have the opportunity that we have out here. So go out in our next match and give it our best and try to put on a great show.   
 Q.  You mentioned you've struggled in Australia. What kind of goals do you set yourself in for the Australian Open?  
JOHN ISNER: No, I don't set goals, performance goals. At this point I think they're kind of stupid. I mean, it's, to be honest, I just work hard and take care of myself and see where the chips fall after that, and that's what I've always done. I've never, I have never really set performance goals for myself. I just take care of what I need to take care of and see what happens. I've been very consistent throughout my career doing that, so it's not an, oh, I want to get to the second week type of thing. It's just go out there and, really, my only goal is to compete to the best of my ability, because that's what I can control. Everything else I can't really control. I can't control how my opponent plays, can't control the weather, can't control a lot of things, but I can control how I compete and always trying to get better in that department.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT