ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2017
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KHACHANOV/J. Isner
7-6, 6-3, 6-7, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Never easy to come back overnight.  How was that for you and then what was the difference out there today?
JOHN ISNER: Oh, that was nothing, actually.  I mean, I actually preferred it that it did get rained out.
So, I mean, it was kind of annoying I guess, but it wasn't hard physically or anything like that.  You know, I like that we were playing first up, too.  So I just didn't get it done.
Q. Anymore on that?  It was serving?
JOHN ISNER: No.
Q. You felt like just crucial points?  What was the difference?
JOHN ISNER: Yeah.  I mean, he started to -- I think his level dropped a little bit at the beginning of the fourth set.  And I had a handful of chances.  And if I could have kind of kicked the door open there, I think it could have been a -- that and maybe the next game as well, I think.
So there weren't many chances but again, for me, when I have them, I've got to try to take them, and I didn't today.  And those are pretty big moments in that match.  But just didn't get it done there.
And then, you know, he was certainly, I think, a little bit better than me today.
Q. So what do you take away from your clay season?  It's done, moving on to the grass.
JOHN ISNER: Yeah.  It's kind of -- it's called a season.  I played three tournaments.
It was good.  I mean, I think I turned my season personally around a little bit, so having a good tournament in Rome.
And, you know, it's always disappointing to lose in a Slam.  For me, I want to go further than the third round.  I mean, who knows how I could have done against Murray.  Of course, it would have been tough.
So leaving here on a bit of a sour note, which stinks, but it's fine.  I played pretty well over here, I feel like.  And I'll certainly go home and rest up and forget about tennis a little bit and watch some NBA and NHL.  Looking forward to that.
Q. How do you see that match up, that Murray match shaping up?
JOHN ISNER: Well, certainly Andy is the favorite, but Karen is -- you know he's playing with a lot of confidence.  So if he hits the ball as big as he did today, I think he can keep it close.  He's got to certainly believe that he can win the match.
But Andy will be the favorite and we'll see what happens.  But Karen is a -- it's weird saying that name.  It's my mother's name.  Sorry.
And he's a very good player and, of course, very young.  So he's going to go out there and he's going to have nothing to lose.
Q. I wanted to ask you about Karen.  What do you think his upside is compared to some of the other up-and-coming players like Zverev or even Kyrgios and Thiem for that?
JOHN ISNER: I guess you haven't really heard about him as much, and rightfully so, because he's not currently ranked as high as those guys.
But I think his upside is pretty good.  I mean, he hits the ball very hard and has a pretty good demeanor on the court as well, I think, for being very young.  So I think he's got an extremely bright future.
Q. In terms of heading to grass next, are you going home, are you sticking around, or how do you plan for that part of the year?
JOHN ISNER: I'm going to go home tomorrow.  If I could go home tonight, I would, but there are no flights.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT