U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2016
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. EDMUND/J. Isner
6-4, 3-6, 6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Got broken more than usual today.  Was your serve feeling off at all?
JOHN ISNER: No, it wasn't feeling off.  I think the match swung a bit in the first game of the third set when I had Love-40.  I played three really good points to get to Love-40, and then kind of wear myself out trying to finish that game off.
I didn't break, and then the next game I didn't make any first serves and got broken.  That was a bit disappointing.  But it was just a struggle out there a little bit.  Kind of the whole tournament.  Nothing really felt great the whole tournament.
But credit to Kyle.  I thought he played well.  Certainly played better than I did in the big moments, so hats off to him.
Q. When you talk about the tournament not feeling right, does that extend to the rest of the summer, too?
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I mean, the whole year in general, I guess, so...
It's all good, I guess, but it's a little disappointing for sure.  I'll get back to the drawing board.  Obviously - I don't know what the right word is - disappointed for sure right now.  Have to hit the 'delete' button, watch some football, and hopefully that will clear me up.
Q. Did you notice any difference between your match at Roland Garros and here in Kyle's tennis?
JOHN ISNER: No, I'm bad at that.  I can't recall.  I can barely remember the match we played in Roland Garros right now.  I'm assuming he played better today than he did at the French Open.
Q. How much do you think maybe the first match against Tiafoe took something out of you?
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, certainly you want to try to save your energy at a Grand Slam.  That match took some out of me; my second-round match took something out of me.  I played in the heat of the day both times, right around 1:00.  It was pretty hot out there, too.
Maybe I came into this match at a little bit of a deficit, but that's not why I lost.  At a certain point adrenaline takes over, and it did in that match out there.  I just wasn't better than my opponent.  Simple as that.
Q. Felt off-kilter, out of whack this summer, this tournament.  Was that physical?  Mental?  The tape on your knee, is that preventive?
JOHN ISNER: I've been doing that all year.  Always have a few things here or there kind of bothering me, but nothing too severe.
I mean, all in all, I feel pretty good.  I can be thankful for that.  Right now there's nothing significant bothering me.  There's always a few things that linger here and there, but doesn't keep me from going out on the court.
Q. Back to the drawing board, dumb question, but what do you plan on drawing?  Do you see major changes coming?
JOHN ISNER: No, no.  No changes, major changes.  For me right now I got to try to get excited to play in the fall.  To be honest, right now it doesn't seem too exciting.  We don't have Davis Cup, unfortunately.
I'll take some time off, regroup, get ready for that.  See if I can finish the year strongly.  We'll see what happens.
Q. A couple younger guys left in the draw.  Jack had a good win today.  Jared.  Do you think those guys can go far?
JOHN ISNER: Jack, Jared, and who else?
Q. I think it's just the two of them.
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I think they can.  Jack's very good.  I don't know who Jared plays, but he's a good player as well.
Q. Karlovic.
JOHN ISNER: Okay.  That's winnable for him.  It's good to see Jared doing some good things.  He's a really nice guy.
Jack, of course, I've known forever.  Doesn't surprise me.  He's very good.
Q. What do you think of Kyle generally?  What do you think of his game, how far he can go?
JOHN ISNER: He's a good player.  The one thing he has on his side, I should say, is he's still very young.  He's playing well.  He's playing pretty well here, I would think.
Yeah, I mean, he's got a good future, for sure.
Q. What about the tennis in America as it is today?
JOHN ISNER: What do you mean?
Q. The growth of top players.
JOHN ISNER: After my match or what?
Q. In general, in America, tennis in the United States.
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I think it's in good shape.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT