DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINAL: USA VS CROATIA
July 17, 2016
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/J. Isner   
7-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What went wrong out there today?  
JOHN ISNER: I felt like he played pretty well, to be honest.  You'll have to ask him.  The first set was critical.  Felt like I definitely was the better player in the first set.   
Didn't get paid off, but that's on me.  He came up with the goods when he needed it.  That gave him a lot of confidence I think.  He got his legs underneath him even more after the first set as well.   
I knew it was going to be a tough task.  He was going to be feeling pretty confident because he played very well yesterday in the doubles.  I felt like he carried that over today in the singles.   
 Q.  Every player has like a guy or two that they just have a tough time with.  Anything particular about him that you can point to that maybe gives you a tough time?  
JOHN ISNER: No, not right now.  I'm not -- I don't know.  I would have to think about it a little bit.   
He certainly has a good record against me, that's for sure.   
 Q.  What do you think was preventing you from being able to break serve throughout the match?  Was it more him or the way you were playing?  
JOHN ISNER: No, I thought he -- I don't know, man.  I don't know the stats, but I thought he served well and was solid from the baseline.   
First set I played extremely well and had a lot of chances; just didn't put it together.  He had a lot of confidence after that.   
 Q.  What's the difference preparing for somebody coming into a match like this after he's played two days in a row?  Were you expecting him to be more tired than he looked?  
JOHN ISNER: No.  I knew he was going to be fine.  All of us are -- no one in singles is -- of all the singles players here, we all could have played singles, doubles, and singles and been fine.   
That's not an issue.  I knew it wasn't going to be.   
 Q.  What do you think is going to be key for Jack in his match coming up?  
JOHN ISNER: Just do what he did the other day:  play with a lot emotion and use the crowd.  He'll be fine.  We're very confident in him, so see how it goes.   
 Q.  What is your schedule going to be for the next couple months?  
JOHN ISNER: Couple of months?   
 Q.  Well, meaning for the next month, through the US Open.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I'm playing D.C. next and then Toronto, two big tournaments.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT