DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINAL: USA VS CROATIA
July 14, 2016
Jim Courier
John Isner
Jack Sock
Mike Bryan
Bob Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Jack, do you feel any extra pressure because not only is this your first home tie, but it's a place where the U.S. won the Davis Cup in 2007?  
JACK SOCK: I mean, not necessarily any pressure.  I'm more excited, honestly, to be playing on home soil.  I love being a part of the team with these guys.  They have a lot more experience than me out here.   
Yeah, I mean, maybe when I go out there, it will be a different feeling than when I played in Uzbekistan and Australia.  But more excited than anything to be able to play in front of some home fans, some family and friends.  Obviously playing in front of my country and these guys as well.   
Definitely more excited than nervous.   
 Q.  Jim, your thoughts on the draw?  1 against 2?  Do you have a preference?  Does it make any difference?  
CAPTAIN COURIER: Well, we knew 1 against 2 was going to be the case, that's how the format is.  So there were no real surprises from that standpoint.  The only real unknown was who was going to play first.  All that means is how we really adjust our practice schedule for tomorrow.   
Both of these guys are going to line up against their opponents tomorrow.  We don't seem to have any weather issues thankfully.  So I think it's just be ready to play.  It doesn't really matter who plays first or second.   
 Q.  Curious what your thoughts are of the way the draw was done, a unique way with kids doing it for you guys.  
BRYAN: It was cool to have all the kids out here.  We've done a million of these draw ceremonies all over the world.  This was definitely unique.  It was great to have the kids clapping.  They were out here playing tennis, having fun, smiles on all the kids' faces.   
It was good to see.   
 Q.  For the Bryans.  You guys are undefeated in your career in Davis Cup after winning the first set.  Obviously it's nice to win the first set, but how important would that be?  
BRYAN: I mean, we love getting off to a fast start.  We're a good front-running team.  We play with a lot of energy.  When we get out to a good lead, usually it carries on to a victory.  So that's important in Davis Cup.   
Feeding off the fans, there's going to be a lot of U.S. fans out there.  So if we can get a lead, the place will be pretty loud.  So hopefully we'll start off quick.   
 Q.  I understand that you changed the surface of the courts.  How do the courts play right now and what was the rationale behind making the courts play that way?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, you know, as the home team, you get to choose the surface.  We feel like as a team, we all play pretty well on hard courts.  It's something we've all grown up on.  So it's definitely a fair court, a court that we like.  I'm sure the Croatians don't have an issue with the court, as well.   
It's a very true court.  It plays very nicely.  The court being in such good shape, it's going to allow for some pretty good tennis on the weekend.   
 Q.  Considering you're one of the older teams, Croatia is a young team, do you think your age works for you or against you?  You have more experience.  
BRYAN: I think playing Davis Cup, experience is a big asset to any Davis Cup team.   
As doubles players, we are 38 years old, but doubles is a game that you really develop into your 30s, and you can keep improving even at this age.   
Jack is a young gun.  He's got a lot of energy.  He's very eager to play.  I think his youth will help this team.   
John has played on the Davis Cup team now for five or six years.  He's played on the road in hostile environments.  That's only going to help us if we go further into this draw.   
I don't think age is any issue for this team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT