WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2016
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/J. Isner
  6‑7, 3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑2, 19‑17 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. Pretty tough match today. What do you think made the difference?  
JOHN ISNER: He played better than I did. That was it. He was the better player.   
   
 Q. How did you feel coming out there?  
JOHN ISNER: I thought I'd feel a little better. To be honest, I was a little tired, for some reason. I didn't think I would be, but I thought I'd feel a little bit better.  
   
 Q. You finished pretty late. Do you think it was more of a mentally draining thing? Did you sleep okay?  
JOHN ISNER: I slept all right. I have been on the schedule forever. Maybe it's not really ever having a day off. It was the same for him, so...   
   
 Q. Are you thinking, here we go again? That's what obviously we're thinking.   
JOHN ISNER: No, I wasn't out there. He was serving very well, and, yeah, I know the match could go a long way, but I wasn't thinking about what happened six years ago.  
You know, I had a chance and he came up with a good serve. I had some chances yesterday, came up with good serves every time. That's why he's, you know, one of the best players in our game.  
   
 Q. You had a lot of experience going deep in the fifth set, obviously. Is there anything specific you take from those moments or those experiences that you can use when it happens again?  
JOHN ISNER: I don't know. It's not something I have thought about right this second. It hasn't helped me (smiling), so maybe I need to think about it a little more.  
   
 Q. Do you feel like you could have served any better in that last set? Your numbers were off the chart good. I don't know if you feel like, Hey, that's the best I can serve and he got a break or if you thought, I could have served even better than that?  
JOHN ISNER: I don't know. I felt like I served all right.   
   
 Q. I can't remember now the game number, but late in the fifth, looked like the left foot kind of slipped...  
JOHN ISNER: Oh, I was fine. Hurt for like five seconds. No, it feels fine. It's not an issue at all.  
   
 Q. Did you notice a difference in the crowd, you know, today as opposed to regular Wimbledon? Obviously an unscheduled day.   
JOHN ISNER: No. I mean, I think that that match we played, any other day, that court is probably going to be full. I don't know that the patrons are any different than they would be on another day. It was fine.  
   
 Q. I think it's the ninth time you have gone 6‑All or more in a slam. Would you like a tiebreak in the fifth?  
JOHN ISNER: I mean, I would, but I have said that a bunch. But I can't do anything about it. It's fine.  
   
 Q. Do you think it will ever happen?  
JOHN ISNER: I don't know. No clue.   
   
 Q. Would you like it 6‑All or...   
JOHN ISNER: I don't know.  
   
 Q. Just somewhere?  
JOHN ISNER: Somewhere, yeah.   
   
 Q. It wasn't as long ultimately, but is it fair to say you kind of have an insight now as to how Nicolas Mahut was feeling all those years ago?  
JOHN ISNER: No.   
   
 Q. When matches go that long, for Jo going forward from here, how difficult is it going to be for him tomorrow?  
JOHN ISNER: I think he'll be fine tomorrow. He's pretty fit guy. I think he'll be fine. Maybe he won't, but I expect him to be okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT