ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2016
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. ISNER/K. Edmund   
6-4, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The first match you were dealing with weather, trickier sort of situation.  This one seemed to look pretty under control.  Talk about the difference in these two matches.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I felt like I was playing in that first match for a week.  I was supposed to play Sunday, never got on the court.  Scheduled again on Monday, got on the court late, knew I wasn't going to finish.  Had to finish yesterday, Tuesday.   
But I was ready to play today.  I didn't need a day off, and today was -- it was a bit easier.  I think I played -- I think I played better.  I was happy with how I kept my energy pretty much the whole match.  For me, it's very important to finish a match in a fashion like that, straight sets, and not be on the court that much.   
 Q.  How are you feeling about your level here?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, well, I'm feeling better and better.  Coming into this tournament, I'd be lying to you if I told you I was really confident, because I wasn't.   
You know, I lost a lot of tough matches and I hadn't played many matches.  I was sidelined a bit with injuries.  Now that I've won two matches here, I'm certainly feeling a lot better.  I think I can keep going.   
 Q.  We expected you and Jack probably to be in the third round here, but you're the last two Americans standing, which is better than some years.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, I feel like it's a big improvement.   
 Q.  Were you expecting some of the other guys that were here to maybe make a little bit more noise?  
JOHN ISNER: You know, it's kind of tough.  I believe Jack and I are the only seeded Americans, so...   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, he got in in the last minute.  But he had a tough draw against Fernando.  Being seeded helps a lot in these tournaments, otherwise you're at the mercy of the draw, and some of our guys went down, you know, in the first round.   
I guess -- I'm assuming Bjorn lost.  But, you know.  We are the last two remaining.  We are the top two Americans, as well.   
I know Jack really enjoys playing on clay.  I think my game with, you know, with how I play, I have said it a million times, it's not rocket science, I can win on clay with how I play.  Especially in conditions like this.  It was definitely a lot faster today, which I liked.   
 Q.  So a little bit of a shift then, sort of where your head is in this tournament from a few days ago with a couple of wins under your belt and maybe the weather getting better.  You have Gabashvili next, which is tough but winnable match.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, it's a pretty big shift, considering how much trouble I was in in my first round.  I mean, I easily could have been down two sets to Love there, and I wasn't.  I was able to claw back to 1-1 and went to bed that night at 1 set all with a lot better mindset than had I been down two sets.  So was able to win that match.   
I think today I was able to free up a lot more.  I think it showed out there, as well.   
 Q.  On Jack, what's the most underrated part of his game, would you say?  
JOHN ISNER: Underrated part?  I mean, everyone knows what he does well, and that's hit his forehand and move extremely well.  He's an incredible athlete.   
Underrated?  I mean, I would say, I don't know if there is an underrated part of his game, but his backhand has definitely gotten a lot better.  That's, to me, the way he's improved the last year and a half, two years is because of his backhand.  His forehand has always been there.   
And I believe he's serving a little bit higher percentage, as well.  There were times where I think he would say the same, he didn't hit 50% first serves.  So he's serving a lot better.  His backhand has gotten better.   
He's still real young and getting stronger and fitter and faster.  He's a very good athlete.   
 Q.  Do you consider him fast, like you think --  
JOHN ISNER: Yes.   
 Q.  -- about his speed being up there as one of his strengths?  
JOHN ISNER: Yes, absolutely.  It's his forehand and his speed.  I don't even -- I wouldn't even say his forehand is better than his speed.  He's very, very quick and gets to a lot of balls, and especially on clay.  He slides well and he knows how to move on this surface.   
As I said, he's an athlete.  A pretty gifted guy.   
 Q.  On lefties.  Do you find it harder to play lefties or to you is it six of one and half dozen of other?  
JOHN ISNER: No, I find it harder to play lefties for sure.  The guys that use, serve on the ad side.  It's such an advantage, it seems.  Lefties for me have always been tough.   
If I had my druthers, I'd rather play a righty pretty much any day of the week.  Of course, play a guy like Novak, okay, I might rather play a lefty.  Lefties are tough, for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT