AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2016
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. ISNER/F. Lopez   
6-7, 7-6, 6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That was quite a little celebration from you at the end.  How much did it mean for you to come through and win that match?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, it's a big win.  It's a very tough opponent, especially for me, the way he plays.  It certainly has given me trouble before in the past.   
Also been a little while since I've been in the Round of 16 at this tournament.  It feels great.  I'm very relieved to get through, want to keep on going.   
 Q.  You could have been really discouraged after that first set.  Your body language looked really good.  What did you tell yourself going forward?  
JOHN ISNER: Well, I wasn't happy after the first set, for sure.  I was ticked off.  My racquet felt the brunt of that (smiling).   
But I knew it was a lot of match to go.  Again, obviously I was serving well.  I was really just kind of tight and kind of wound up in that second set.  The second set could have gone either way.  That was definitely the turning point.  I freed up and started playing so much better after that.   
Once I got the second set I knew I had a very good shot at that match, so I just kept going.   
 Q.  The result notwithstanding, what about the process of that win are you most proud of?  
JOHN ISNER: No, yeah, I'm proud of the fact that I was able to, especially in the third and fourth sets, play some very good tennis.  Really I went out there and I had a game plan and executed it very well in the third and fourth sets.   
Not in the first two sets, which is why I was frustrated out there at times.  A lot of things I focused on about this match.  I did some of them very well.  I'm proud of that.  You know, I was very well-prepared, so it's a good feeling to get through.   
 Q.  If my math is correct, you have a good problem.  The Panthers will kickoff at about 10:40 Monday.  What is your strategy if you're an early match?  
JOHN ISNER: Maybe go to the tournament desk and ask for a late start.  I'm serious actually (laughter).  We'll see if I can get that done.   
 Q.  Maybe you can go to the NFL.  
JOHN ISNER: No, I don't think I have that much power.   
I don't know.  Look, it's a good problem to have.  I said that the other day.  Now I'm at this point.  You know, we'll see what happens.  First on would not be good.   
 Q.  What do you think Tiley would say back to that?  
JOHN ISNER: He'd probably just laugh at me.  He's going to do what's best for his tournament.  I won't do that.  I was kidding.   
 Q.  You've talked about the different approach you've taken with Justin.  When it comes into big matches like this, at the Grand Slams specifically, what are you doing specifically now that you weren't doing before?  
JOHN ISNER: I mean, I feel like I've gotten just better in general as a tennis player.  Not so much things that I'm doing very different.  I mean, look, I'm still working hard, taking care of myself.   
But it's a bit of a mindset, I would say.  It's not so much a tangible thing out there.  Mindset and a belief.  I feel like I've lost in the third round in a lot of slams before.  Getting to the second week has been a bit of trouble for me.   
I was able to overcome that today.  I lost to López in the third round on that same court a handful of years ago, as well; lost to him in the third round of Wimbledon also.   
So it was a big win for me.   
 Q.  Do you think turning 30 on the tour these days is when it really happens for a lot of players?  Are you feeling that yourself?  
JOHN ISNER: No.  I mean, I wouldn't say it's when it happens, but it's not so much a downfall when you turn 30.  Feliciano is 35 and he's top 20 in the world.  My next opponent is 34 and 7 in the world or whatever.  A lot of guys are doing very well at 30 and into their mid-30s.   
It's not so much a death sentence as it used to be, I guess, in the '90s.   
 Q.  You have Ferrer next.  Talk about that matchup.  I think you've gotten him once.  How do you approach that match?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, my last match in 2015 he beat me, as well, in Paris.  I've got to play aggressive.  I mean, he's going to want to get on top of that baseline and move me around all day.  He's not going to get tired.  We all know that.   
I've got to go for my shots and try to keep the points shorter.  Can't be having long, drawn-out rallies with him.  I'm definitely not going to win the majority of those.   
I really haven't thought about the match yet.  I won't think about it today either.  But I have some time to, you know, get my work done tomorrow and start focusing on that match against him on Monday.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of discussion of the 'next American generation,' these young teenage guys and the way they push one another.  Do you feel pushed by them or the presence of them perhaps coming up?  
JOHN ISNER: No, no.  They're -- no.  They're not ranked that high right now.  Like I want all those guys to succeed.  They're all very, very nice.  They all will, as well.  But as of right now, no.   
I mean, the group of players that are ranked behind me right now, sort of push me on and kind of motivate me to try to keep going, you know, being the No. 1 American as long as I can.   
 Q.  Do you mean that in an American context?  
JOHN ISNER: Yes.  Steve and Jack and Donald and Sam and guys like that, yeah.   
 Q.  After Azarenka's first-round match, she offered a dab celebration.  I think Cam got in touch with her and approved it.  I didn't see your celebration today, but...  
JOHN ISNER: No, I'm not going to do that.  I said, You should have put a patent on that or something.  He does it the best.  Vika's, no offense, is not quite as good as his.   
But I won't be doing that, for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT