ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 14, 2013
Lorenzo Brown
Mark Gottfried
C.J. Leslie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 North Carolina State: 80
  Virginia Tech: 63 
  
COACH GOTTFRIED:   I think the first thought that comes to my mind is defensively I thought we did a good job today, we did a good job on Erick Green and I thought Lorenzo was terrific in his one‑on‑one defense with Green, I thought we did a much better job of helping him than we did the first time we played Virginia Tech, but Lorenzo Brown made up his mind he was going to do a good job and I thought he did and I thought our team's defense was better.   We were active, quick, rotated better, so I thought that was probably the key to the game.   
   
 Q.   Lorenzo could you talk about your defense on Green and what helped you hold hip down and Coach, Richard Howell's performance, what helped him do well today?   
LORENZO BROWN:   I basically fed off the energy of my teammates, they did a great job of helping me on the screen and driving, they did a good job, just a good job tonight.   
COACH GOTTFRIED:   I thought Richard was, as he always is for us, he's Mr.Reliable, dependable, he's there every night, he rebounds, he scored well in the first half, continued that in the second half.   
I thought his rebound and go defense, he just one of them guys, the same every day.   He's a big key for what we were able to do today.   
   
 Q.   Lorenzo, seemed like your goal was to keep Erick out of the lane.   Was that the key today?   
LORENZO BROWN:   Most definitely he's the go to guy and he makes the decisions on their team and C.J. and Richard, we played as a team.   
   
 Q.   Beginning of the season and playing on the first day here, is this a fresh start in the postseason, kinda just getting all that other stuff out?   
COACH GOTTFRIED:   I think everybody in our camp wishes we would have won more in the regular season, no question, sitting here with 23 win and 11 league wins now 12 if you count this and that's good but for us it wasn't good enough.   It's all about how you finish.   We need to finish well and our guys want to finish well.   That's important to them.   So whether it's a fresh start or not I don't know that we look at it like that, we talk about it all year long, being at your best at the end of the year and that's what we need to be is at our best now.   
   
 Q.   C.J., in the last Virginia game, from looking at the numbers you had a good game up there in Charlottesville.   What do you remember about that game and what are you expecting for tomorrow?   
C.J. LESLIE:   I don't remember too much, I was kinda sick, but one of the things I do is that we didn't play great defense you know for forty minutes, we didn't get it done defensively‑‑  
  
COACH GOTTFRIED:   We were at Virginia, Calvin didn't practice the day before, he didn't come to shootaround, I wasn't sure he was going to play, but he fought through it and played and he was under the weather and Lorenzo sprained his ankle about the 9‑minute mark so that was a tough day for us.   
   
 Q.   Given what you guys hope to accomplish this week, how important was it to come out here and take care of business and have a game that you didn't have to get pressed to the end?   
LORENZO BROWN:   I felt like this was going to be our toughest game, they sent us to overtime at our place and we did pretty well at home this year and just trying to stop Erick would be the main thing and he's a great player.   We did a good job on that.   
C.J. LESLIE:   I'm looking at it that game is in the past, we're no longer focused on that game ear on to the next one, so we have to do what we need to do against Virginia.   
   
 Q.   Mark, Lorenzo didn't score a ton but defense and passing, is that as good as he's been this year?   
COACH GOTTFRIED:   He's been good on a lot of nights but playing against a guy like Erick Green, the nation's leading scorer, that's going to take energy and he spent energy doing that defensively.   He ended up with 12 assists and I think Lorenzo is the kind of player that if he felt he needed to score or our team needs that he can do that more, but today his focus was defensively and I thought he had a heck of a game, I don't know if it was his best but great defensively and distributed the ball well, 12 assists, pretty good afternoon.   
   
 Q.   Coach, they hung with you for a good part of the first half, second half you were able to finish them off.   What did you do well in the second half?   
COACH GOTTFRIED:   I thought our pressure defensively initiated our opportunities in the break.   When we got our pressure up and we were deflecting passes and we were disrupting them, it enabled us to run our fast break more which I thought was the key.   
Once we got out into the open floor we were able to separate from them.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT