BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2001
Pat Day
Elaine Devenport
C. Wayne McIlwraith
Dallas Stewart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAT DAY:  Well, I didn't view the incident at the gap.  I was slightly behind that horse and seen it immediately thereafter.  It was certainly concern for the filly and for the handlers.  After that when they took us back to the paddock, just concerned about Unbridled Elaine maintaining her composure and not getting too excitable in the paddock area.  She handled it all very well, went to the gate in great shape broke well.  Was pretty comfortably placed in the middle of the field and the turn she was moving nicely off the turn.  A horse on the inside came out and took what space I had.  I believe it was the eight horse, I'm not positive.  Across the horse's heels and got on to the outside inside the 3/16 pole.  That time I was able to put my stick up, put her to the task.  She responded beautifully.  I went after the leader with a vengeance, as I was telling generous a little ago at that juncture.  You don't know if you're going to get there in time.  You pull out all the stops.  She was up to the task.  


Q.  You know, you two teamed up with Dollar Bill, had bad luck, at least you had a little bad luck, came out good.  Maybe the luck is coming around for you. 

PAT DAY:  Dallas and I had a lot of success over the years.  I look forward to more success in the future.  He's a great horseman with a great future.  I appreciate any and all opportunities.  Certainly we didn't have the best of luck, whether it was just bad karma or bad whatever.  Things didn't work out with Dollar Bill.  But we're certainly happy to be back aboard today and back together and grateful for the victory.  

DALLAS STEWART:  You know, it was kind of the owner's decision.  You know, what happened is, I mean, he just decided to move the horse and the filly came back to us.  We were sad when she left but very happy when she came back.  She was very well prepared.  David did a great job with her.  He won a couple of stakes with her.  I mean, we're just really happy as far as the circumstances what happened.  It's just one of those things, we're happy to have her.  It's all about the horse.  She's A great filly.  She stepped up today.  She was running against the best.  Pat GAVE her a great ride.  Pushed hard last eighth of a mile, ran down a great filly, a great day for us.  

ELAINE DEVENPORT:  Elaine.  I am here.  

ELAINE DEVENPORT:  I feel the best, I think I ever felt.  

ELAINE DEVENPORT:  A-v-e-r-i-l-l.  

Q.  Elaine is the horse's name after you and your relation is? 

ELAINE DEVENPORT:  Roger Dave even port's daughter.  

Q.  Dallas the incident that happened and how did you keep your horse filly calm in the paddock, what did you actually do in the minutes before that. 

DALLAS STEWART:  I'll tell you all of the horses that were in the back were very, very good.  The riders got off and the horses just kind of paraded around.  No one got out of hand and we just waited till when we were supposed to go on the racetrack and she was fine like I said all of it I saw every horse was fine back there.  

ELAINE DEVENPORT:  He does have cancer but he's doing well.  He's a fighter and a survivor and I know he's at Keeneland today watching. 

DALLAS STEWART:  Betting. 

ELAINE DEVENPORT:  Cheering.  I'm sure you couldn't miss him over there. 

DALLAS STEWART:  He's a horseplayer.  

Q.  Could Elaine comment about the goings and comings of the Unbridled Elaine?  

ELAINE DEVENPORT:  I'm really just a cheer leader and just here to enjoy the day.  

DALLAS STEWART:  She worked on Sunday.  We received her on, I believe it was Saturday, and I knew she was doing work and I've been watching her train out there.  You know, you can't miss her.  She really takes control when she's out on the racetrack.  You can't miss her going by.  She was training very well.  I knew she was scheduled to come up.  I worked her 5/8 on Sunday.  Maintenance work didn't try to get fancy or cute.  Wanted to give her nice maintenance work, get her here good and healthy.  I thought she was capable.  

Q.  How many other horses did you get on the transfer, Dallas?  

DALLAS STEWART:  It worked out pretty good.  We lost eight and we gotten back.  We gained two somewhere along the way.  

Q.  Can you talk about how surprised, I mean, I'm assuming that eight days ago you wouldn't have thought that you would be here. 

DALLAS STEWART:  No.  It was a great phone call.  I was thrilled when Mr.`Devenport and Mrs. Devenport called and asked us to take his horses back.  He's a great guy, you know.  I didn't have anything -- any negative things to say to him when it came apart.  And I always pulled for this filly when she ran because I really liked her.  I was very surprised, like you say, when he called, but very willing.  And very grateful to have her.  

Q.  What's it feel like to win your first Breeder's Cup Million Dollars Race?  

DALLAS STEWART:  It was a great race to see her coming down the stretch.  See Pat laying down that one.  When Pat's driving on one and been in trouble the first part of the race and gotten loose, he's laying it down and she came on strong.  

Q.  How does it feel denying D. Wayne Lukas two in a row? 

DALLAS STEWART:  Wayne's my man.  It's a great race and I'm sure Wayne is happy for us.  

ELAINE DEVENPORT:  Blanchardville, Wisconsin.  Southwest of Madison. 

DALLAS STEWART:  One thing you should know.  Mr.`Devenport himself did pick this out at a Weanling sale.  Not a yearling sale, a Weanling sale and bought her himself.  He picks his own horses out, bought her at the auction.  He bought plenty of horses at auction.  I'm sure this is the best one he's ever brought, but he did a lot of it himself.  

DALLAS STEWART:  Absolutely.  What struck me, she's athletic.  Horse's big and not athletic.  Clumsy, don't get over the ground good.  She's big and moves good.  She's got a good way of going.  

Q.  Was it an ankle chip that she had when she won the Pocohantus. 

DALLAS STEWART:  Last year she won the Pocohantus.  She came up with a small fracture in the hind ankle, wasn't really a chip.  It was a little crack.  I spoke to Mr.`Devenport and urged him to let's give her some time and let her develop, and I remember telling, you know, the sky could be -- the sky's the limit for this filly if you give her enough time.  He was patient and he did right by her and she paid him back today.  

DALLAS STEWART:  Is she up or down? 

DR. C. WAYNE McILWRAITH:  She's up.  

DR. C. WAYNE McILWRAITH:  We just got the good news from the barn.  She's up.  As we discussed before, the tranquilizer wears off and so it's a sign that her trauma is low grade and she is up.  She's fine.  

Q.  How long will it take to assess this?  Is it day by day?  

DR. C. WAYNE McILWRAITH:  Obviously in time radiographs will be taken sometime just to make sure there's no fracture.  Based on the response to therapy, it looks really good.  And you know there will only be a problem if something else develops.  That's unlikely based on her rapid response to treatment.  

Q.  In terms of her demeanor from what you heard, does she seem calm?  

DR. C. WAYNE McILWRAITH:  I just got a brief call from the veterinarians back there.  But yes, she seems fine.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT