ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: GEORGIA TECH v FLORIDA STATE
December 1, 2014
Shaquille Mason
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     In what ways are Zach and Synjyn similar as runners and how are they different?
SHAQUILLE MASON:   I say they're both similar because the way they carry the ball.   They both run hard.   I mean, they both get the tough yardage that we need.   They both have their own unique thing they bring to the table.   Zach is more of a hard‑nosed, get‑downfield guy.   Synjyn, he don't make cuts.   Gets yardage that way as well. 

Q.   What makes this offense so effective this year compared to maybe the last couple years?   Why is this offense the one that's become so prolific?
SHAQUILLE MASON:   I can honestly say the selflessness of everybody we have on offense.   Everybody is out there as one.   We all got the same come and go.   You know what I'm saying?   No heavy load on just one person.   We all know we got to buy in, go out there and get the job done night in, night out. 

Q.   I know a lot of teams have a hard time trying to stop your option.   Talk about facing a tough Florida State defense, trying to get things working with that option. 
SHAQUILLE MASON:   Going into this game, we're taking the same approach as any other game.   But we definitely know that we're going against a very good defensive line, defense in general.   That goes into putting in the extra hours, breaking down film, seeing tendencies, stuff like that, when you're facing a team of this caliber. 

Q.   I know you were there in 2012.   Would you like to redeem yourselves?   That was basically the start of their streak.   Is that something in your mind that you want to end that there in Charlotte?
SHAQUILLE MASON:   Yes, sir, most definitely.   That would be nice to end their streak in Charlotte, considering they started it with us.   We're definitely looking forward to the opportunity of playing them again in the championship game. 

Q.   From your vantage point last week, what was it like watching Zach run as hard as he did, breaking as many tackles as he did against Georgia?
SHAQUILLE MASON:   Actually didn't really notice it during the game.   As I watched film yesterday, I was just seeing the things he was doing.   I mean, I never saw him run that hard.   He's always been a hard runner, but yesterday he just had the will to get it done. 
I have confidence in him that he's going to bring that again this week. 

Q.   You have a lot of seniors on the team that played in the last championship game.   Does it help at all having the experience of that game against Florida State going into Saturday?
SHAQUILLE MASON:   It does a little bit because we know how big the stage is.   We've been on that stage before.   But we also have a lot of new players coming in playing that don't know how big the stage is. 
I have a good feeling that everybody knows their assignments, knows what to do, are all focused and ready to go Saturday. 

Q.   What are your memories of that game?   Florida State controlled most of the first half of that game in 2012.   You were able to make it a close game at the end.   What do you remember about the first half as opposed to the second half of that game?
SHAQUILLE MASON:   I think then our team, we went into that game not as confident, I would say, until we realized that we could play with those guys.   Then the second half we kind of just flipped the switch. 
Opposed to this year, we're going into this game very confident.   They're going to get our best shot from first snap to whistle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT