LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 25, 2017
Jaylon Ferguson
Boston Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
UTSA - 6, Louisiana Tech - 20   
 Q.  Talk about the injury in the first half and coming out of the game and what was it and what did you do at half-time to get it right?  
BOSTON SCOTT: Yeah, I was running inside zone.  I cut it back, but I didn't do what my coach said.  I was supposed to press the block more and I didn't do that, and whenever I made the cut, I got tackled and I felt my toe pop, and I went, ahh.   
 Q.  What was involved?  
BOSTON SCOTT: Yeah, just treatment.  I just had to walk it off.  Walk it off and it ended up going away, so bounced around a little bit, ran back on it, so I was good.  I wasn't going to be out.   
 Q.  What was it like to put an exclamation point on your career there with that long touchdown run?  
BOSTON SCOTT: I mean, I just ran through the whole.  My O-line, you could drive an 18-wheeler through it.  It was a nice hole.  I just hit it as fast as I could and as hard as I could and just took it the distance.  That's the O-Line right there.  They paved the way.   
 Q.  Does it look a little different -- you really worked the last two -- you had a good run early on.  
BOSTON SCOTT: We don't really like to compare much to the past couple of seasons.  We just focus on now, you know.  And I will say that because it was the last game, single elimination, it's all on the line, that we play harder, but that's the way we competed in every single game.  Even the tight ones, it just happened to fall on the other side of the ball.  It happened to fall to the opponent.   
But the competitive nature, the competitive greatness of this team has been consistent throughout the year, there's no question of that.   
 Q.  Talking about the resiliency.  There are losses where you've had really heartbreaking, close losses early in the season that would have broken you guys but you stuck with it.  
BOSTON SCOTT: Man, I'm just so proud of this team and the way that they fight, the way that they battle, every game, no matter what the result of the game is, if it's a tough loss like a Southern Miss or whoever it is, we come back the next week ready to work.  That's what we do.  That's what we did, and we showed up.  We showed up.   
 Q.  Talk about the defense.  What was it like for you and the offense to watch what they did on the sideline?  
BOSTON SCOTT: Man, like when we go over to the bench like to like sit down and talk about the offense.  Like Coach had to come and pull me from the sideline because I was out there watching that defense.   
Man, just to see, just everybody did a phenomenal job.  Just to see guys that that I have seen develop like Dae'Von Washington who is a walk-on, Darryl Lewis, also a walk-on to come up and make big plays in big-time situations.  The defense as a whole, they play lights out.  That's big time.  Especially moving into the post-season, we're going to need them.  Tonight, that was -- I mean, that's my boys.  Them boys compete.  That's big time.   
 Q.  Was tonight the first time you had the prayer before the game?  
BOSTON SCOTT: This was the first time.  So, yeah, I mean, they want me to do it every game, I would.  But this time they just wanted me to do it.   
 Q.  Did it mean a little something to you being Senior Night here?  
BOSTON SCOTT: Doing the invocation (ph)?  Oh, absolutely.  I've been the president of FCA here for the past two year, and FCA and just my faith in general has been huge for me.  I wouldn't be here without God giving me the abilities to be here and I think that is huge that they allow me to do that on the final night.  Wish I could have done it more but I'm just thankful for the position that God's put me in.   
 Q.  I saw you celebrating with your family out there after the game.  Talk about what it means to be able to celebrate with them after a big win like that.  
JAYLEN FERGUSON: It's crazy, because I actually got my son due Wednesday, and I was celebrating with my sisters and my mama, they got up here for the birth.  We won, cruising on into it.  Going to be jumping into fatherhood and I'm glad I did it tonight on the win.  Feeling pretty good about that.   
 Q.  I know the first half, you had one and a half sacks and those came at key times.  Just talk about the ability that you had tonight to get to the quarterback.  
JAYLEN FERGUSON: Just effort.  Most of it was effort.  I'm running down from the back side, nothing could be done without the D-Line, the linebackers, the safeties, the coverage sets.  Everything we all work together.  Just because one person get the sack on me, I get all the credit; but it usually goes out to the whole defense.  Just make it clear, I'm not alone (ph) on this defense.   
 Q.  Does it surprise you that despite the success the defensive front had in the first half, that they came out in the third quarter and they only threw the ball one time in the third quarter, were y'all surprised by that, having shut it down the first half?  
JAYLEN FERGUSON: Yeah, it's like a slap in the face, shut it down the first half and come back and try it again.  But I feel like the D-Line and the linebacker, the whole front seven, we had a strong -- we had two good red zone stops.  They weren't running, we asked them for it.   
 Q.  The red zone, were you feeling like you knew it was coming or -- you were able to keep them out and hit them a lot of times in the backfield even.  The first down on the two-yard line, first and goal and to come up with three more stops again, how important is it when you are able to -- what was going on --  
JAYLEN FERGUSON: Communication breeds confidence.  We talked about it all week.  We practice here.  We work on relentless effort on the field, just relentless effort.  It's the same thing as practice, just harder, faster, more.  We demand more from each other every play and we are really demanding more in the red zone because in the past we have not been a very good red zone defense.   
I feel like today we stepped up to and we answered the challenge and we answered in a big way.  We came back and did it again and came back and did it again.   
 Q.  How does it feel to at least have one more game opportunity and see the season go on and maybe finish with a winning season?  
JAYLEN FERGUSON: Feels good.  My future right now is uncertain but for a lot of guys on the team I came in with, it's their Senior Night and this is going to be the last time -- this was the last time I got to play with them.  I'm glad we went out on top and I'm glad we get to hit the field.  Practice with them one more time, play with them one more time.  Just being around my teammates, all my brothers one more time, it feels great.  Feels really good right now.   
 Q.  A lot of close games, a lot of close losses this year.  They had the ball and were covering a punt with seven minutes to go in the game and you were able to go out and Amik Robertson gets that interception.  How did it feel to be on the flipside of the close game there?  
JAYLEN FERGUSON: Feels good.  Nothing we hadn't already prepared for.  We worked for this.  You could see, he had a really good year this year.  He had a breakout year this year and he kept -- indiscernible -- came with the interception.  We practiced it.  We worked on it every day (indiscernible).  You've got to get those.  Amik's short but he stepped up tonight and he got the ball and won us the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT