WGC EMC WORLD CUP
November 15, 2001
Toshimitsu Izawa
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOSHI IZAWA:  Well, today Maruyamasan had a tee shot first and I had a second tee shot.  Then on the second shot, Maruyamasan had a second shot first and he put it on the green, so I that was kind of easy to aim at the pin.  Overall, we had a very good round today. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Well, I try to play my best today.  I had a little bit of trouble putting, but, well, on the 18th hole, I missed the green, and maybe two or three holes, you can't help it, but I had much trouble on that hole.  As I expected, almost all of the time, I had a second shot, hit a second shot before Izawasan, so I assisted a lot today.  I was able to assist a lot today. 

Q.  It seems like you were a very tense with your round? 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Not really.  It is, I think more Izawasan is more tense than I was.  He had a long drive today, and as we were talking in the middle when we were playing, Izawasan was more excited and it was a great round today.   

Q.  Can you talk about playing with the No. 1 ranking team? 

TOSHI IZAWA:  The U.S. team, after all, it was very surprising that it seems like they are not playing great, but there's only two stroke difference, so I think there will come to the point starting tomorrow. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Looking at the U.S. team today, they looked a little bit tired and this cold weather is giving them a hard time.  David had a hard time with his shot and Tiger had trouble with putting.  But even though  -- it's a pair match, so even though one missed the hole, the other one recovers it.  So I think the U.S. team is still a strong team. 

Q.  On the first  tee, Izawasan seemed a little bit tense?

TOSHI IZAWA:  It was a lot of cheering today and felt kind of scared.

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: There was so many people, but I'm pretty much familiar with a lot of people, but not Japanese people these days.  So it's like a stadium, a baseball field. 

Q.  How was it seeing Mr.  Nakamura, the winner of the Canada Cup in 1957? 

TOSHI IZAWA:  It's good to see him.  I haven't seen him for a while, but he is well.  I'm very happy to see him. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  It's been a while to see him, since about six or seven years ago.  It was good to see him and good to see him well.

Q.  What was the coat that you had during the round? 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I don't like wearing sweaters; it bothers my swing.  So I prepared a coat and the idea came from Mr.  Fukimuri (ph), a good friend of mine and also a professional golfer. 

Q.  What do you have to improve for tomorrow's round and the final rounds?  And do you have any message for junior golfers? 

TOSHI IZAWA:  Well, the most important is to have good putts here at Taiheiyo.  I missed a few putts, three to four meters today, so I would like to make more putts.  To be on top, we have to make more putts.  And a message to juniors, I've seen a lot of juniors come out to the golf course.  It was very nice to see them, but showing good play will make the Juniors look happy. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  About the golf, it was teamwork today.  So it was a little bit easy, but tomorrow and the final round which is individual play, I have to play a little bit better.  There will be more pressure on my putter and my shots.  I think the key point of this tournament is the second round and the fourth round.  About the juniors, well, today we were very successful playing with the U.S. team, and was able to show juniors that the Japanese can do good golf.  This is the worldwide event, which is going to give a lot of influence to the golf world in Japan.  So, I'm expecting a good play and to show the kids how much strength we have as Japanese golfers. 

Q.  What is the order of the tee shot for tomorrow's round? 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Izawasan is going to play the even holes and I am going to play the odd holes, which is  -- the even holes are the tougher holes, but we will see tomorrow, and I don't know what's going to happen. 

Q.  Playing with Tiger Woods, Izawasan seemed like you had a very long second shot at the beginning. 

TOSHI IZAWA:  No. 1 hole, he had a little bit of a flyer and it went over the green.  The second shot, the second hole, he thought the wind was against him, but it was not against him.  Compared to Tiger Woods, I'm very satisfied with my driving length. 

Q.  If you could give a total point today, what would be? 

TOSHI IZAWA:  Probably 100%, but maybe 98 because of the final birdie putt that I missed.  Maruyamasan had a very sticky round and helped me a lot putting the ball on the green in regulation. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  With my tee shots, I think 80 percent.  Second shot, 70 percent and putting zero percent.  I was not satisfied with my putter today.  Playing in the final group, there was some footprints on the greens, so I would like to think it was bad luck today.  But I'm pretty unsatisfied, so I'd like to do something about it tomorrow. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT