NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 27, 2008
Louise Friberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Can we do your scorecard, please. 
 LOUISE FRIBERG: Birdie 4. I had 126 to the pin, hit a 9-iron to -- I can't remember how close I was. Approximately 15 feet. 
 No. 6, 8-iron with 147 left. 
 9, I had 108 to the pin. I hit 7-iron. That was probably like 35 feet. 
 No. 10, I had 70 yards to the pin and hit a 58-degree wedge shot to 15 feet.
 11, I had 143 to the pen and hit an 8-iron about 13 feet. 
 13, I had 163 to the pin and I hit 6-iron to three feet. 
 Then my birdie streak ended. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Louise, congratulations. You took over the lead today. You had 13-under par, and I know yesterday you said you were planning on making a trip to the media room and you've succeeded in that goal. 
 If you would, just talk a little bit about your round and how you feel right now.
 LOUISE FRIBERG: I feel pretty calm. I played well and I hit the ball a little bit closer to the pin today than I did yesterday. I managed to make a few key putts, and already on the first hole, I had a pretty long par putt. It was probably about six or seven paces or feet. I made that and that got me off to a good start. 

 Q. Are you excited about your round? 
 LOUISE FRIBERG: Yeah, I am. I've actually been waiting for this for quite some time, because my last win, I came from far behind, so I've been waiting to get up to the top to get to learn the Sundays, how they work and how to be in contention and manage to keep it.
 So it's going to be exciting tomorrow no matter if I'm one or two or third or whatever going into Sunday. 

 Q. How are you feeling right now?
 LOUISE FRIBERG: I feel very calm. I felt very calm on the golf course today, as well. I just had a really good time out there. I had some great laughs with my caddie and I just hope I can keep that for tomorrow. 

 Q. What do you think made you so successful out there? 
 LOUISE FRIBERG: I think just going into it and not expecting too much and just mentally like focusing on the process of every shot and not trying to force anything. Yeah, I had a really good night's sleep last night. 

 Q. How does the course fit you? 
 LOUISE FRIBERG: I think it fits me pretty good. I like the bentgrass greens instead of the bermuda. I have an easier time reading them, and I like the pace of the greens. I like the setup. There's a lot of hills around the fairways, so if you hit it just a little bit left or right, I mean, my drive was kicked into the fairway a little bit and things like that. 
 I mean, I like it. Visually I like the course. 

 Q. Are you nervous or excited at all about playing possibly with Lorena tomorrow? 
 LOUISE FRIBERG: Excited. Excited. Whoever I'm going to play with tomorrow, it's going to be exciting. I'm just excited to be in the top going into Sunday, no matter who is in the top with me. Obviously I have a lot to learn from watching Lorena play, but I also need to focus on my own game. 
 So tomorrow, it's about my game and hopefully have a good time out there. 

 Q. What will you do tonight?
 LOUISE FRIBERG: I'm going to go out and have a good dinner with some friends, maybe read my new book. That's it, very exciting. Life on Tour. 

 Q. I'll bite. What's the book? 
 LOUISE FRIBERG: Well, it's doing delivered to me in a few minutes, so I don't know the name of it yet. 

 Q. What genre? 
 LOUISE FRIBERG: (Laughing) I don't know. I think it's fiction. It's like girly. It's a girly book, like a little bit of love, a little bit of friends, people, maybe some shopping, just a girly book. 

 Q. Did you know where you were?
 LOUISE FRIBERG: I knew I was high up, but I've heard -- my experience before is when I've been watching the leaderboard, I try to start forcing the putts instead. So my thing today was I'm not going to watch the leaderboard, so I didn't. 
 I knew where I was at the beginning of the round, probably maybe three or four holes into it but then I decided I wasn't going to watch it. My past experience helped me. I'm forcing it too much. 

 Q. Do you think that helped you stay calm? 
 LOUISE FRIBERG: Yeah, I think so. One of the pieces that makes me calm. 

 Q. Is there anything that you plan to do differently tomorrow than today? How was the wind? 
 LOUISE FRIBERG: No. It wasn't as windy today as it was the first two days as all, maybe half a club in places. So it didn't affect as much. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Louise, thanks a lot. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT