BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 27, 2009
Lukas Dlouchy
Leander Paes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIRNYI-RAM/Dlouhy-Paes
  7-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How was it? 
 LEANDER PAES: How was it? Good fun. 

 Q. Was there anything different about today? 
 LEANDER PAES: It was another match. We came out there to play hard. We came out there to fight. There's points involved, money involved. We came in to work hard. 
 I thought today was one of our better matches compared to the other two matches we played. The score line showed it. 7-6, 6-4, pretty tight. Especially that first set, to break back, it was good fun.

 Q. How do you sum up your season? 
 LEANDER PAES: I think it's been a fantastic season. We're the only team to have won two Grand Slams. We are obviously playing for the big events. I think that if you look at a whole year of 52 weeks, there are five big events in the year. You have the Grand Slams, you have the Masters, and then you look at the next rung of events are the Masters series. So for us having won two Grand Slams this year, it's a real feather in our cap. It's something we've worked very hard for. 
 Now in the new year, 2010, we are going to be playing together the whole year. Basically we need to work hard to be more consistent away from the Grand Slams also. It would be nice to be sitting here next year with two Grand Slams under our belt, but be more consistent also in the other tournaments. 

 Q. And the fact that you have been together for some time, does that also help, along with your experience? 
 LEANDER PAES: Yes, it helps a lot. But I think there's a lot for us to learn also. Our strengths are when we play really well, it's tough to beat us. But I think when we play a little off that, a little less than that, that's something that we have to learn a lot more, is on how to play the percentage, how to make the other teams fight even when we're not playing great tennis. 
 LUKAS DLOUHY: I agree (smiling). 

 Q. The shot midway through the second set, you must have been quite happy with that, at 3-2. 
 LEANDER PAES: The no-look? That's how I normally play my tennis (laughter). 
 Yeah, it was one of those reflex things. That's what makes doubles special. It's good fun. You don't look and you hit. 

 Q. What sort of schedule have you planned for next year? 
 LEANDER PAES: We've planned to play our first quarter completely. The schedule is not that much different than this year. There are a few weeks that are juggled around, but pretty much the same. The beginning of the year is important for us to get off to a good start. So basically I would like to play a few more tournaments next year. This year I had a long break after the US Open, which obviously proved -- I got better with my injury, but basically not so good for the tennis. So I'll definitely play a few more tournaments next year. 

 Q. What would be the first quarter schedule?
 LEANDER PAES: I think we have got about 11 tournaments in the first quarter. I can't really say which ones they are yet. The first four weeks of the year are pretty obvious. So we go with that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT