BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 25, 2009
Lukas Dlouchy
Leander Paes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BRYAN-BRYAN/Dlouhy-Paes
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Describe Oliver Marach in one short sentence, his character, what type of guy he is? 
 LEANDER PAES: Sometimes silence is better. 

 Q. I can't use this sentence. That was it? That was the answer? 
 LEANDER PAES: (Witness nodding head.)

 Q. Must be pretty disappointing for you. 
 LEANDER PAES: Yeah, it was a bit of a rough outing in the last two matches. It's a bit interesting because we won two Grand Slams this year, then the last two days we've been pretty much off rhythm. Could put it down to many reasons. But at the end of the day it's something we need to look at, go back to the drawing board. 
 Once we make it here next year, hopefully we do, and we work hard enough to get here next year, we need to come a little more prepared into the Masters. 

 Q. Can you lift yourself for the final match? 
 LEANDER PAES: Yeah, for sure. At the end of the day, it's a tennis match. You're on the court. You're entertaining people. You're out there with pride to do the best that you can. Also remember that a lot of people are paying top dollar to buy their tickets to come in here. A lot of sponsors putting us on center court. It's live on TV. We have a big responsibility as professional athletes, top eight doubles teams in the world. We're at No. 4 right now. 
 So really I think motivation is never a key. I wish we could find some rhythm, though. 

 Q. Is it easy for your mind to wander and look ahead to next week or have you not started thinking about that yet? 
 LUKAS DLOUHY: After this match, we lose the chance to qualify for the semis, I think. Since the time I can finish this tournament, then I can start again thinking about the Davis Cup tie. 
 So I'm still in this tournament, so I want to do my best. Like Leander said, we have to do a hundred percent to entertain the people and perform well. 

 Q. I gather from what you said you are going to play next year together? 
 LEANDER PAES: Yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT