AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 1, 2015
Martina Hingis
Leander Paes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAES-HINGIS/Nestor-Mladenovic6-4, 6-3An interview with:LEANDER PAESMARTIN HINGISTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. What is it like to guide another young partner through the mine fields?MARTINA HINGIS: That's a good one.  I love it.LEANDER PAES: That's a brilliant first question.  It's a treat to play with Martina.  Like she said a little earlier today, I finally managed to learn some things from her returns and returned half decently today.  It's intriguing.  In every match we've played, we've had to overcome some obstacle, a bad start, one day our serve wasn't working, one day our returns weren't working.  Today we started great.  But we played two champions.  They kept oncoming at us.  We broke them, they broke back.  We broke them again, they broke back.  Today was just a matter of patience, our understanding of the game of tennis, our understanding of each other came through.  It's just a treat to win your 16th, my 15th (laughter).MARTINA HINGIS: You have plenty of time to catch up.LEANDER PAES: It's a lot of fun, mate.Q. You made your first appearance here in 1994, Leander.  Do you have any idea when your last will be?  Can you see yourself coming back for a good few years yet?LEANDER PAES: Actually, yes, I can.  Actually I was really happy when I was in the gym just now.  After all our matches we go and do our training and stuff.  The best thing that happened today was my coach came back in and he said, Lee, your speed's back.  If you can impress your coach on any given day, you're doing pretty well.  Normally they're your biggest critics, they're the toughest ones that you struggle to impress.  My dad said as soon as we won, I called him, he goes, Okay, now you have to focus on the next one.  I said, Dad, it hasn't even been five minutes (laughter).  But I love the game of tennis.  To play with this champion who I keep learning from every day is a lot of fun.  I look forward to being back soon.Q. Martina, did you get a chance to look at the walk of champions walking out?MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, that's the coolest thing about it, when you walk there.  Lee, a couple times now we got to play on center court, I love that photo.  It's a very heavy photo when I won here.  It's full of excitement, the joy you have out there when you go and play.  Lee is just a really great partner to have.  Been there, done that, he knows what he's doing.  I don't have to tell him anything.  Just like today, he was really keeping me out there, stay focused, especially at the end, compared to the other matches, today there was a lot of tension.  It's finals, playing the defending champions.  They both are, you know, great competitors, like he said.  You think like you have them, then they bounce back.  She serves great for a girl.  She doesn't have any letdowns, only a little bit at the end where we could really jump on that and take advantage.  But the rest of the match, it was always like every point counts.  It was a huge difference today.  It was not as physical maybe, but it was more of a mental match today.LEANDER PAES: Isn't this your 15th Australian Open final today?  Does any have that stat?  No one has done their homework (laughter).  I thought today was your 15th Australian Open final.  That's unbelievable.MARTINA HINGIS: Only my second mixed.  But I haven't lost a finals yet.  Feels good.Q. Martina, what stage did you decide to make a commitment again to playing tennis, just in doubles?  Did something in your life happen that you missed it too much?  What was it and when?MARTINA HINGIS: I was never really completely out of the picture, away from tennis.  It was always part of my life one way or another.  I was playing some exhibitions, then I was coaching a little bit.  Now being back, I mean, the coaching probably got me more into it because I was playing with the girls, hitting, being face-to-face to the best players in the world like Anastasia, Sabine, obviously one of the biggest hitters.  So that felt like, you know, maybe I can play with them, only halfcourt.  I don't have to run that much.  Obviously when we're practicing, it's halfcourt only.  I was playing with them.  I felt like I could still hold my own.  Lee has been on me for three years.  We played TeamTennis for a couple years.  Let's play the US Open.  We were holding the trophy, I told him, I was so scared.  Maybe I should have done it earlier, played a couple tournaments together already.  But I was just really scared to -- I wasn't ready to take the tension, be on court.  But he kept going on me.Q. Martina, what does it mean to you to be tasting success here so many years after your first visit to this tournament?MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, no, in the ceremony my voice became really little.  After 20 years being back on that court, like I said in my speech, who would have thought.  It's not even like the cherry on top, it's more than that to be there and to be able to hold another trophy with Leander.  It's more than I could ever dream of, yeah.Q. Martina, are you hoping to play the Olympics next year?MARTINA HINGIS: Right now we're very far away.  We're really enjoying the moment to be here, to have the title.  I mean, it's out there, definitely.  It's something that would be probably -- I mean, I haven't played Olympics since '96, so...Q. Were you surprised at how well you came together?  You really seemed to have excellent chemistry this week.MARTINA HINGIS: I think we even grew with every match, the confidence, the teamwork, the suggestions we had, one or the other, we really trust each other.  I think that was the key in every match.  The big points, like today, we were up a break in the first, in the second.  Then they break me back.  Then I was like, Okay.  But stay there, be focused, just do our job.  That was really the key, that we were always there.  I think that's our strength, from both of us.Q. Do you feel the experience with the Washington Kastles helped?  You know each other as a pair.LEANDER PAES: Relevant to the same questions is that our understanding of each other is amazing.  On the court I just feel like I have such a big advantage because I don't have to overplay.  Martina is such a smart tennis player and she knows exactly what movements I'm going to do, I know what movements she's going to do.  Today one of the big key points that actually I felt helped us win the match, when I was up a break in the first set, I played normal on the girl.  She's got some amazing returns inside-out from the deuce court.  Martina came to me and said, We made a mistake, we should have played the I-formation.  All of a sudden we went to the I-formation every single game after that and pretty much cruised right through.  That's the trust we have in each other.  That's the thing that makes us potent.  We're undefeated in World TeamTennis, won the championships a few times now.  So far we're undefeated in Grand Slam tennis.  Not trying to put the pressure on, but we haven't lost a set yet.  It's the first Grand Slam I've ever won out of my 15 that I've never lost a set and that's thanks to this young lady here.  The smarts, the intelligence is what stands out.Q. You've played with approaching 100 different partners.  Obviously Martina is the very best.  But for the grass-roots player, the regular player out there, what is the key for a doubles player to adjust to a new partner?LEANDER PAES: The first thing is to know yourself really well.  If you know yourself really well and you're honest with yourself about your strengths and more importantly your weaknesses, then you choose a partner whose strengths are your weaknesses.  So my return of serve on a good day is average.MARTINA HINGIS: It was pretty good today.LEANDER PAES: But to pick a partner who has got such quick thought from the baseline, even when she's playing mixed doubles, when the guys are popping serves at her.  Daniel Nestor is one of the best mixed doubles servers in the game.  He is lefty.  He has this wicked slice serve on the ad court, which is Martina's side.  He can hit his spot down the T.  To see how quick Martina reacts to it in her thought process, then commits to a shot, that's something I learned.  Now, when I'm at the net, when I have less time, I've got sharp eyes, I pick up things quick.  When I have less time, I'm lightning fast.  When I have too much time, my Indian genetics, I think too much.  Martina, you pick a shot and stick to it.  Any up-and-coming youngster in any walk of life, it's not about yourself.  You got to learn yourself quick, then you play for the team.  The sum of two individuals have got to be greater than two.  So the sum of all the individuals has got to be greater than that many people that are there.Q. Why do Indians think too much?LEANDER PAES: Oh, boy, I could be all day here (laughter).Q. Are there already plans to play further Grand Slams together?LEANDER PAES: If she let me.  I don't know if she will.MARTINA HINGIS: Of course.  We already talked about this.  It's not only the fact that we won, but just feel really comfortable with one another to go out there.  Right now it does feel a little bit invincible, especially on the hard courts because we just really fulfill each other.  I think it's like what I don't do as well, you do well, and the opposite.  That's how to choose a partner.  I think it's also the key.  I feel like if I execute my things very well, he's going to take over and do the rest of it.  Like if I hit a great return, I know he's all over the top of the net and he's going to finish the job.  So it makes me feel like, Okay, I do execute well, I'm done, my job's good.LEANDER PAES: But you know what's actually special about you is that I've had so many partners, and as we've gone on winning Grand Slams and winning big things, the lesson to keep learning and improving diminishes a little bit.  It gets a bit stale.  I don't know exactly how many Grand Slams you've won, but you've won a lot.  To actually come off a match where you've won another Grand Slam here, to go out and say, Let's go to the gym and do the hard yards, let's do our biking, our abs and our back.MARTINA HINGIS: Only because I have a partner.  I don't want to suffer by myself.LEANDER PAES: But that's really actually one thing that stands out.  For a champion who has done it all, to still take that extra half hour after a Grand Slam win and enjoy the hard yards, to enjoy yesterday where we had booked a practice for one hour, ended up practicing two hours.  We had fun.MARTINA HINGIS: It was fun, yeah.  It's already two hours we've been out here.LEANDER PAES: I think tennis, we're so blessed as human beings or as athletes to have such a great sport, to have such a great profession.  We put on shorts, we put on T-shirts, we have legends of the game going out onto a court in front of a packed stadium sometimes.  People are paying top dollar in a hard economy.  We go out and earn a living.  We're really blessed, you know.  We're really, really blessed.  Thanks to you guys we get out there to reach our millions of fans around the world.  Life has been very kind to us.  We try and give back.Q. At this stage in your career, both of you are so experienced, do you have any targets remaining for your career?  Lee, I believe you're trying to complete a career Grand Slam.  Are these targets for you in the future?LEANDER PAES: My target is to get Martina her career Grand Slam.  That's my goal.  If it takes me two years, so be it.  That's my goal.Q. Olympics?LEANDER PAES: No, I don't play for Switzerland (laughter).


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT