NBA AWARDS SHOW
June 24, 2019
Mike Budenholzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Mike on this wonderful award of the Coach of the Year.  Tell the media how you feel about this great honor.
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: This is pretty incredible.  Very, very appreciative of obviously our organization, starting at the top with ownership, our front office with Jon Horst and Peter Fagan on our business side, my coaching staff.  Those guys are amazing what they do every day, they do all the work.  Then, of course, the players in Milwaukee are special.  This was a special year.
Just couldn't be more grateful to be their coach, and looking forward to more great things going forward with the Milwaukee Bucks.
Q. Do you look at the coaching staff you had in Atlanta, the first time you won this award, and now you've got three different head coaches in the league.  What was it about that group that was special?  How do you feel about your current assistant coaching staff as well, in terms of the future?
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: I mean, there's probably -- there are so many great things that have happened for me personally over the last six years, but to be a first-time head coach and to put together a coaching staff and to see now three of those guys, Quin Snyder in Utah, Kenny Atkinson in Brooklyn and now Taylor Jenkins in Memphis.  It's maybe the thing that gives me personally the most pride, that gets me the most excited.
Won a lot of games, had some success, team-wise, but just -- I couldn't be more happy for those guys.  What we do together every day, coming into coaches' meetings, and I use arguing in an affectionate way.  Those guys push me.  They've made me better, and hopefully I've given them something as they take their steps and move on to be head coaches.
Q. Coach, congrats on the award.
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Thank you.
Q. Since I know your mindset is the collective and we're waiting on the word with Giannis here on the MVP.  Regardless of what happens tonight, what is your vision for what comes ahead, next year?  You created a unique culture last season, the last couple of years, but keeping that together and taking it to the next level, how do you see that?
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Obviously the most important thing is kind of laced into the end of the question.  I think keeping the group together is critical to us.  Jon Horst, management, everybody, ownership, I think we're totally committed to doing everything we can to keep the group together and not -- continuity is something that's important but not continuity alone -- you have to bring the right guys back for the right reason.
We feel like it's an incredible group.  What they did on the court this year, including the playoffs was special.  We weren't good enough in the end, but we certainly feel like we have enough talent, we have enough character to be a team that's playing in the Finals and winning a championship.  So we just gotta get better, the players individually have to get better, as a coach I've got to get better.  It's exciting to think about after year one all the areas where we can improve.  If we do that, I think we'll feel really good about where we're going.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Mike.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT