NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS VS. BUCKS
May 19, 2019
Mike Budenholzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nick Nurse said there would be lineup changes but wouldn't say what yet.  What sort of scramble does that trigger in preparation for a change like that, and does more of a change in the last possible moment contribute to a change being successful?
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: My guess would be minimally, if at all.  You can make a couple of guesses as the opponent to what the changes might be.  But at the end of the day, when they announce the lineups, we'll tell the guys who they're guarding and they'll be ready to do it.  Unless he's taking Kawhi Leonard out of the starting lineup, I think our guys will be prepared.
Q. You've gone with the Brook Lopez plus bench lineup at multiple junctures throughout the playoffs.  What do you like from that group?
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: I think they're usually good defensively.  I think George Hill has brought a real just an IQ, a toughness, an edge defensively.  Brook together with those guys are good.  Then offensively I feel like they just played well together.  They move the ball.  In some ways they probably execute some of the things we do a little bit better, a little bit sharper.  Hopefully we just get the team scrambling, we get good shots and are able to guard on the other end.
Q. You've talked about how impressed you've been with Malcolm Brogdon since his return.
Is there any particular aspect of his game that you realize that you missed the most?
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Everything.  It's funny, you get a guy back, you're just like, Wow, he was such a big part of what we did.  I think obviously when you get to the playoffs, making shots becomes such a big part of the equation.  His ability to step in and shoot with confidence, shoot with range, but then to pair it up with his ability to beat you off the dribble and get to the paint, finish.  Defensively, I think his strength, his ability to guard tough covers.  He's just a good player.  Not that you forget, but when a guy all of a sudden is back and playing, it's like, This is really, really great to have him back.
Q. On Brogdon, along with Khris Middleton, defending Kawhi Leonard:
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: He's such a tough cover.  We're just trying to make everything difficult on him.  Both Khris and Malcolm are kind of the front of that effort.  I think Malcolm has a strength to him, a toughness to him.  In this particular matchup, you've got to have that maybe at a higher level.  And I think the activity around both those guys has been good, but we've got to continue it tonight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT