NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS VS. BUCKS
May 15, 2019
Mike Budenholzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Bucks - 108, Raptors - 100   
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: I think we always talk about our defense.  We start with it.  I think the way that the guys competed and got after it defensively in the second half and particularly the fourth quarter just stands out to me.  The depth, Malcolm [Brogdon] coming off the bench and playing the way he did and all the different guys we got contributing.  Then obviously a big game from Brook [Lopez] on both ends of the court.   
We feel like we can get better.  To get this win after pretty significant days without playing, I think hopefully we'll be better between now and Game 2.   
 Q.  Is this the best you've seen Brook play just in all facets of the game, getting inside, shooting from outside and playing defense?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Yeah, the thing that does stand out is the put-backs and the stuff around the basket, particularly in the first half.  We were kind of struggling for scoring and just anything offensively, and he was able to kind of manufacture a couple things.   
And obviously in the second half, the threes in the spread that he gives us.  And then defensively, we'll look at the tape, but I thought he was there several times in the fourth quarter, making blocks, making big-time contests, rebounding.  Certainly in a big moment, that was a great Brook Lopez tonight.   
 Q.  Kawhi Leonard takes just five shots in the fourth quarter, scores just two points in the fourth quarter.  What did you think of the job that Khris Middleton and Malcolm Brogdon did on him for the game?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Yeah, we talked about just the individual pride it takes with whoever has that assignment.  For the majority of the night it was Khris and Malcolm.  To be able to kind of tag-team him, and then in the fourth quarter hopefully between him seeing those two different guys all night and the activity around those two guys, we'll take that fourth quarter.   
We certainly can't rest or think that it doesn't take the same effort and the same activity going into the next game start to end against Kawhi.   
 Q.  It's not uncommon when you see a team playing from behind all night like you guys were for like 37, 38 minutes.  There just comes a point where you guys -- teams tend to run out of gas.  You guys seemed to find another gear.  What is it about your group that you can be down for three quarters in the biggest game of your season and then somehow put it together like it was nothing in the fourth quarter?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Well, hopefully it speaks to our depth, first and foremost.  I think we've got a lot of guys that are capable, that can contribute, that are confident on both ends of the court.   
I think it speaks a little bit to the character of the group.  They just stick with it.  I think it's become a little bit of a theme in the playoffs.  I think eventually hopefully we feel like if we stick with what we're doing, good things will happen for us.   
 Q.  Malcolm, you spoke about him already, but it felt like early in the game he hit a couple of threes that even though it was early, you really needed him at the time.  Obviously second game back, how good was it to have him hitting those big shots again?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Yeah, he was phenomenal.  Again, the first half, I don't think we were very good as a group, and Malcolm was one of those guys that kept us afloat.  We already talked about Brook kind of keeping us afloat in the first half.  And [Brogdon] really did it.  I think what he's doing defensively is impressive, too.  His second game back after not playing for a significant period of time, it's impressive.  And we certainly needed him tonight.   
 Q.  Under 40 percent from the field and 25 percent from three, that doesn't often lead to a playoff win.  What does it say about your team that you were able to come through like you were able to, especially with that fourth quarter?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Hopefully it says we'll be better when we shoot the ball the next game.  We talk about defense, defense, defense.  I'm sure you guys that are around here just get tired of hearing about it.  But you can bring your defense every night, and that's what we expect.  There are going to be nights when you don't make shots, and you've got to just continue to do well or give it defensively.  If you do that, you maybe can break through and find a way to win on a night when you really don't shoot very well offensively or play that well offensively.   
 Q.  What did you think of Giannis's play tonight?  Felt like he kind of imposed his will in the fourth quarter with the driving kick and then defensively, as well?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: I think Giannis was similar to our whole group, a lot of positives as the game went on.  I think, as we look at the film, we'll probably see that I think he's making a lot of good reads, a lot of good decisions.   
We've got to shoot the ball well around Giannis.  And then I think Giannis will play better.  Again, playing without six days, for him, he needs the rhythm of the game and everything.  I think it's great to get a win with him.  I thought he was good, but I think he can be better.   
 Q.  With the layoff that you guys had, were you kind of prepared a little bit for maybe a little bit of a sluggish start because you can't really recreate the intensity of playoff basketball in practice settings?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Yeah.  Any coach that goes into a game without playing a game for six days is very worried how are you going to play.  I don't know that I would use the word sluggish, but that's just being nit-picky.  It's just how are you going to play, how are you going to execute.  Just all those things.  It's impossible to replicate in practice, and you're also incredibly conscientious of staying healthy during those six days.   
I think we're just all glad to have played, and certainly to get the win.  I'm sure they'll be better Tuesday or Thursday, whenever it is, Friday, I guess, and us, too.  Too many days.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  There was a timeout with I think 3:31 or something like that left and you're down two.  You guys haven't been in too many close games.  It feels like for quite a while.  Being able to play through that stuff with defense, like you said, and get the win, is that a good thing for this team to go through that?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Yeah, I think the more experiences you get in close games and what are you going to do and how are you going to find opportunities, particularly offensively.  But I think what we've found and what we've done most of the year when we are in a close game, we're still going to push it, we're still going to play in transition, play in a spread situation and take what the defense gives us.   
Certainly it was big the last three and a half minutes to come out of that timeout and then close the game out the way they did.   
 Q.  You guys were positive in the minutes with both Khris and Giannis on the bench.  What did you see from those groups that was kind of effective?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: We'll have to go back and look at the film, but I think the guys just play together.  I think George [Hill] is out there lots of times during those stretches.   
Malcolm hit shots.  Brook stepped up.  Hopefully we have a way of playing where we can function on both ends with or without Giannis and Khris.   
And the guys just did it.  It's the stuff we work on in practice, talk about.  We want everybody to feel confident, participate, and when those guys aren't out there, that's what they've got to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT