NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v HAWKS
May 24, 2015
Mike Budenholzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You guys losing Kyle Korver, it's a lot of shooting that you're losing.   The Cavs have gone through that, losing Kevin Love and with Kyrie Irving being hurt.   How do you adjust to losing that much shooting, which was such a big part of your identity, on the fly? 
    COACH BUDENHOLZER:   On the fly, Kent Bazemore will take his spot in the starting lineup.   We play a certain way, and Kyle's a big part of that.   He finds great opportunities, but so does DeMarre and Kent.   He may drive and slash a little more than, obviously, shoot, but when he's open, we want him to shoot, and we want to play in a similar way that we've always played regardless of who's on the court. 
    So if he's open, we want him to shoot, and we want him to look for opportunities to be aggressive, driving and slashing also.

Q.   Coach, what have been some things that you've been able to kind of impart on the team?   Any special motivational videos or anything like that, being in an 0‑2 deficit going on the road for a Game 3? 
    COACH BUDENHOLZER:   We probably wouldn't share those with you guys if we had done a lot of them.   I think our mindset is we've got a very resilient group, a competitive group, and they're here for a reason.   Their character, their competitiveness, and to pull on that or to draw on that, I think, is more important than anything.   To be able to sustain that competitive spirit for 48 minutes and that resiliency, it's a great challenge for our group.   I think they're all ready, and it's how we're built is to take on this challenge.   We're excited about it.

Q.   How's DeMarre today compared with Friday night?   Is he improving, or is this going to be a thing where he's going to have to gut it out? 
    COACH BUDENHOLZER:   Probably a little bit of both.   He's such a competitive guy.   He wants to play so badly.   I think, between the medical staff and everybody involved, he's ready to go.   He's physically capable and ready, and he's got a great challenge. 
    So hopefully, he's getting better each day, but I don't think anybody feels probably perfect this time of year. 

Q.   Coach, I read somewhere that Pop's in town?   Is Gregg Popovich in town?   If so, what words of wisdom did he give you? 
    COACH BUDENHOLZER:   He is in town.   His words of wisdom are probably best kept between he and I.   They're lots of times probably pretty simplistic and very helpful.   But he's been a good friend and a good resource for, not just me, but a lot of people who have worked with him and for him.   So I'll just leave it at that.

Q.   Coach, are you expecting more from Jeff Teague?   We've seen him missing like open shots, layups, et cetera.   Are you expecting more from him? 
    COACH BUDENHOLZER:   Yeah, we're always best when Jeff is aggressive, when Jeff is in attack mode.   He understands that.   We want him to continue to be aggressive, and tonight won't be any different.   We'll look for a lot of those same opportunities that he's been getting and hope that obviously he's scoring and finding teammates in an efficient way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT