NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v HAWKS
May 21, 2015
Mike Budenholzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's the general update and prognosis on DeMarre?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   We're very hopeful.   Sometimes you tend to think it can be the worst.   Right now everything we're getting back is positive.   We'll monitor it the next 24 hours and hope for the best.   It's important to us, obviously.  
   
 Q.   We told LeBron about the good news on DeMarre, and he said he'd be surprised if DeMarre could come back right away in Game 2.   Would you be surprised if he's actually ready for tomorrow night as opposed to Game 3 or 4?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   I think it's inappropriate to have any kind of emotional reaction.   We'll see how things go in the next 24 hours, and we'll make a decision what's in DeMarre's short term and long term best interests.   Listen to the doctors and listen to DeMarre, and make decisions.  
   
 Q.   What‑‑ do you have an idea of the treatment plan the next day or so?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   It's the 24 hour plan.   He will be getting whatever it takes and as much of it as possible.   Our training staff does an amazing job, a lot of confidence in them.   DeMarre will do whatever he can for his health and for his recovery.  
   
 Q.   What does this mean for your rotation?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   We're going to determine that at the appropriate time.   All year we've had different guys step up, different guys have opportunities.   Kent Bazemore is obviously somebody that will get more opportunity if that is the case.   Paul Millsap spent a lot of the fourth quarter defending LeBron.   There's obviously an effect if we need to make that adjustment.  
   
 Q.   Coach, Kent said you kind of got away from the game plan on the court is the reason why things happened the way they happened.   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   Well, I think there's just some things that we do that I probably don't put in the game plan, kind of just fundamental things that we can do better.   There's some things in the game plan that obviously every team can do better, and we need to.   I think there's just some solid, fundamental, everyday basketball things we need to do better.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned that bench.   Is Mike Scott a guy that, if DeMarre's out, you may look upon to maybe get some game time?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   Mike is a guy we have a lot of confidence and belief in.   The way we play, our fours and fives can play either position, and our ones, twos, and threes can play either position.   
Mike is primarily a four man.   So an injury to our three man does not trickle down although there is some potential, there is some opportunity.   I don't think DeMarre being injured has that kind of trickle down that maybe people are inferring or thinking.  
   
 Q.   Paul's spot duty on LeBron yesterday seemed to go really well.   LeBron missed his first five shots, and they were all tough ones.   Is that something you would go with for longer stretches?   Would you start a game with Paul on LeBron if you had to?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   We'll look at everything between now and tomorrow.   Any time you have to match up anybody with the top players in our league, it's a challenge, but Paul is up to that challenge.   We'll just figure out what gives us our best chance, our best opportunity.   Part of it's based on who else is on the court for Cleveland.  
   
 Q.   But after looking at the tape, are those shots that J.R. made shots that you can live with?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   Not when they go in, you can't live with them.   They're kind of‑‑ your point is were they tough shots?   Were they contested and guarded?   The majority of them, yes, they were.   There was‑‑ we would probably consider pretty good defense.   Maybe we need more than pretty good defense.   We need to be really good and make it even harder.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT