NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v HAWKS
May 20, 2015
Mike Budenholzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Cleveland Cavaliers - 97
  Atlanta Hawks - 89 
  
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   I think between tonight and Game 2, the mindset is there's lots of things that we can do better, a few things that we can build on, but there's a stretch early in the fourth quarter where they were able to create a little bit of separation and a lead.   A few things happened during that time that we've got to do better, and I think, if we continue to attack and we continue to play with pace and move the ball better, then I think that's going to give us our best chance going into Game 2.  
   
 Q.   Any particular information about DeMarre at this point?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   At this point, I think the doctors are saying it's a knee sprain.   He'll have an MRI tomorrow, and we'll know more tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Given his professional journey, how excited he personally was to be in this series, what are the thoughts among the staff in the locker room about the injury?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   Well, he's such a great teammate, everybody's just concerned for DeMarre, and I'm hoping that he's healthy and ready to help us as soon as possible.   That's how we feel about each of our teammates, each of our players.   
I know there's that same feeling for DeMarre, and it's the playoffs.   So everybody would like him to come through this as healthy as possible.  
   
 Q.   Coach, quick question, if DeMarre is out, will we probably see more presence of Mike Scott or Mike Muscala as well in Game 2?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   DeMarre is a defender, player, I think, most likely, more Kent Bazemore and some players like that.   
Mike Scott and Mike Muscala are always ready.   We'll see what we learn tomorrow and figure out what gives us our best chance.  
   
 Q.   DeMarre is obviously a primary defender on LeBron, but he also led this team in scoring this postseason.   How tough would it be to replace him offensively as well as defensively?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   DeMarre is a complete player.   He has a big impact on both ends of the court.   Other people will have opportunities to make defensive plays, to make offensive plays, and that will be a great opportunity and a great challenge.  
   
 Q.   Mike, did the ball stop moving, or did you stop making shots?   Or was one a function of the other?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   I think we'll go back and look at the film, and you always learn more.   Sometimes things aren't as bad as maybe you think initially or sometimes they are.   I think ball movement is critical to us.   Playing unselfishly is critical to us.   Our group understands that.   So if we can improve and get better there, I think it's something we've been doing all year.   So I think it's something they understand.   If that's what we need to do, we'll do it.  
   
 Q.   Obviously, J.R. Smith got away from you a little bit.   I wonder if your initial impression is whether it's defensive lapses or was he just making shots?   How do you look at that?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   Both.   I think it does ‑‑ just reflecting back now without having gone through the film, he did make a handful of tough shots, but he's a shooter.   He's somebody that can get hot, and he was a priority coming into the game, and I think we can do a better job and not have any breakdowns going into the next game.   
   
 Q.   Coach, were you happy with the amount of switching that was occurring in the first half with LeBron?   It seemed like Teague was defending him a lot.   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   Yeah, you know, every game you have multiple ways that you're going to try to defend pick‑and‑rolls.   I thought at times it was effective and helped us.   There were a couple of examples where their execution was good.   So I think with any team, with any player, you have to change up your looks, give them a few different looks, and we'll continue to do that going forward.   
   
 Q.   You guys, in the second quarter, there were a lot of times when they ran the Ky and LeBron pick‑and‑roll, and you ended up with Teague guarding LeBron down in the post.   They exploited that a fair amount.   Is that something you're going to try going forward, or are you going to try different matchups or different tweaks on that?   
COACH BUDENHOLZER:   Yes, similar to the question prior, I think we'll throw different looks at them.   Like I just said, we've got to give them different looks, and that's the challenge between now and Game 2.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT