NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Mike Budenholzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   When did you just throw your hands up and say, I've got no control over what happens tonight?
COACH MIKE BUDENHOLZER:   I think when we showed up at practice this morning.
Fortunately I had done this a couple of years ago.   But it's fun to watch these guys play and make spectacular plays and passes.
At one point I know we had a lot of assists, so I felt like we were sharing it to a great play.   But it was fun to watch them. 

Q.   Would the game be more entertaining if you, I guess, there would be a lot of time period where you let them go one‑on‑one, like it's required, no help defense, just one‑on‑one match‑ups, like Kyrie and Brandon were doing in the fourth or at the end of the second half?
COACH MIKE BUDENHOLZER:   Did you say would it be more entertaining?   I don't know.   I'm kind of old‑fashioned and I thought when the ball moved a little bit and a couple of passes and all that is equally as entertaining.   But I think the competitiveness just in general, in the second half stepped up a little bit.   And then Kyrie, he was pretty amazing and Brandon I think took a little challenge.   And I think it was great to watch those two go at each other.   40 minutes of that, that would not be my idea of basketball.

Q.   Did you get that from Pop?
COACH MIKE BUDENHOLZER:   I don't know, I probably got it from my dad growing up and my junior high and high school coach.   It was fun to of watch Kyrie and Brandon and the whole group.   It was a fun night.

Q.   Was there any pressure back home to limit Kawhi minutes?
COACH MIKE BUDENHOLZER:   I think being around Coach Pop as long as I have, I felt the pressure without him saying a word.   But Pop told us all just to enjoy the night.   And there was no limit restrictions on Kawhi.   I think we were all just happy for his growth and how well he's been playing and the honor to be in this game.   So it was just great to be a part of it with Kawhi.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT