NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS VS. BUCKS
May 24, 2019
Mike Budenholzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you and your coaching staff were looking at the tape of last night, is there anything that you noticed that you didn't maybe see in real time as it was unfolding in front of you?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Yeah, there are always lots of things that you see on film that you don't necessarily take in in the game, and sometimes you just reconfirm what you thought.  It's a pretty general question, but the answer is always yes: You see things on film that you don't see in the game.   
 Q.  To follow up, is there stuff that was concerning or unsettling to you and your guys that you saw that needs to be addressed right away?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: There are things where we can be better.  It's win or lose.  When you win, there are things that are concerning and unsettling that you need to work on and improve.   
I think there's just enough possessions where there's a couple of rebounds that stand out.  Can we do a little bit better job in some of our activity in certain situations.   
Offensively, I think at times can our spacing be better and our ball movement be better?   
But I would say it's like a lot of games. We didn't get it done last night.  We didn't win.  There are areas where we need to improve and get better.  But it's not that much different than after a win.   
 Q.  I know yesterday you talked about peak Giannis, that you want to keep him in peak shape and at the peak of his powers with rest and all that.  Do you feel like there are times where you need to trade peak Giannis for 90 percent, 80 percent Giannis in favor of keeping him on the floor?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: No.   
 Q.  When Giannis went out, maybe the bench let go of the rope a little bit in Game 5.  How do you try to maximize both Giannis and the bench in terms of managing the rotation?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: No doubt we're going to need guys to step up and play well and contribute, whether it be defensively or offensively.  Giannis, it's so impressive what he does and how important he is.  What did he play, 39 minutes last night?  So are you talking 40, 42?  I don't think it will go there.  If we have to, we can.  But I maintain that him getting appropriate rest, appropriate kind of just a chance to catch his breath, refuel.   
I think you've seen Kawhi's minutes come back down to what we're talking about.  At the end of the day, you need to be able to produce and perform, including in the fourth quarter.  So I don't feel any different about how we use him, how much we use him.   
Certainly we need the bench.  We usually sprinkle starters with bench guys.  If last night we weren't good, there have been other nights when he's been out and they've been very good and people have said, Wow, isn't that great that you guys can do well when Giannis doesn't play.   
Every night is a little different.  Every game is a little different.  And I think we'll stay the course.   
 Q.  All season long after losses the sentiment has been that it's just another game and that you have to prepare for things.  Giannis has largely echoed that same sentiment.  But last night, he said, No, this is not another game; this is win or go home.  And I'm wondering how you adjust for those sorts of expectations when the guys are now not buying into that.  It's not just another game, because it really is almost the end of your season if you don't win?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Yeah.  It's an elimination game.  It's just a fact.  Anything that is talked about before that -- it's like I think we said before Game 5: It's the first to four.  If they win Game 6, it's four and it's over.  You kind of get down to the facts and the reality.  Nobody is portraying it any differently.   
How do we prepare, how do we get mentally and strategically and all those things prepared?  It's all very similar.  You do the same stuff.  If you win, you continue.  If you don't, your season is done.   
 Q.  Khris took only nine shots last night.  I know it's not typically your offensive strategy to go to one guy or get one guy going.  But given that he's been the one guy you've been able to rely on to shoot threes during the playoffs, was there a point you thought you needed to get him going more or he needed to be more aggressive?  And is nine shots enough for him, given how important he is?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: He's certainly incredibly important to us.  He's a great shooter.  He can impact the game and do a lot of things.  As I reflect on it and watch the tape and even just look at the box score, he's got 10 assists.  The usage or the involvement, the impact that Khris was having, I think we can't just look at nine shots.  I'm not sure if he's had 10 assists in a game this year, to be honest with you.  [Middleton had 10 assists one time in the regular season.]  It's got to be near the top of his assists.   
The ball is in his hands.  He's making great decisions.  He's doing things that are really positive and really impactful.  Would we love to get him a few more threes, maybe a few more shots?  Yes.  But I think the way he's passing and reading the situations and really looking at the film -- Giannis very similarly.  I think Giannis is passing and sharing in a really good way.   
As always, we'd like to get better.  So we'll see if there's ways we can help.   
 Q.  Some think championship teams are made of moments like this when your backs are up against the wall.  Do you feel this way, and do you think your Bucks team has what it takes to win the next two games?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Yeah, we certainly feel like we have what it takes to win the next two games.  Last night was kind of a one- or two-possession game.  At times, we were really good and had double-digit leads.  Both teams, I guess we've blown each other out once each, and the other games have been pretty close.  We need to go win, whether it be a close game or something different.  We need to win Game 6, and obviously you go to a Game 7, both teams have to win it.  We certainly feel like we can do that.   
 Q.  I'm curious with a day to reflect on it and getting to see some of the film, what did you think about switching those pick-and-rolls with Kawhi?  I know you kind of think back to the two threes on Brook, but I'm just curious the tactic and what you thought you guys got out of that.  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: Overall, I think it was a lot of positives.  I think particularly the two threes, the step-back and the one at the top of the key, those are pretty high degree of difficulty, contested.  Credit to Kawhi for making them.  I think one of our goals was maybe more contested shots, more difficult shots, and I'd put those in that bucket.   
Overall, I thought our defense was pretty good.  We certainly can get better in a couple areas.  But Brook and his ability to defend one-on-one in tough situations, while not being perfect, overall I thought it was pretty good.   
 Q.  I know you talk about separating front office powers from what you do.  But I'm wondering with all of the moving pieces this team has, how aware are you of how much winning impacts what this team is going to look like in the next year because it will impact how much money ownership is willing to spend on this roster and how this could be the last hurrah for some of the guys on this team?  
MIKE BUDENHOLZER: I haven't put any time or thought into that.  We're very focused on winning, competing in this series and getting ready for Game 6.  This has been a great group.  I think Jon Horst has said it, I think ownership has said it: The goal is to keep it together.  They've certainly done so much to show us, show everybody, how good this group can be and continue to grow together.  But to be honest with you, I'm just focused on Game 6 and focused on this series.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT