NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 14, 2020
Miles Bridges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
USA 151 - World 131   
 Q.  Miles, this is a long way from the YMCA in Flint. I just wonder the message you have to that kid. Did you think this could become this? Does it maybe not feel quite as far? Does that still feel like yesterday?  
MILES BRIDGES: Yeah, it feels like yesterday. I stayed at the YMCA in Flint all day and night just trying to get to this level. For me to get here, I give all glory to God. I'm just happy to be here.   
 Q.  Miles, the Tweet at halftime, what was the thought process behind that? Did it play a part in the MVP? And should we allow Tweeting during games? Because it surely looks like it works tonight.  
MILES BRIDGES: No, you shouldn't allow Tweeting during games. The World Team, they were killing us, and we were like, let's play for real. So I just Tweeted that, just trying to be funny.   
It's ironic we came out and beat them by 20. We just wanted to have fun and compete in the second half.   
 Q.  Miles, quick question: What challenges from the game have you learned to use as assets? Have you learned to grow and become a better player?  
MILES BRIDGES: I just try to soak everything in from the older guys on our team -- Terry Rozier, we have Marvin Williams. So I just wanted to learn as much as I can from those vets, and even me being around LeBron, us being from the same agency, I try to learn as much as I can from those guys and apply it to my game.   
 Q.  Did you imagine yourself having this trophy before the game? And how do you feel to get it right now?  
MILES BRIDGES: I really just wanted to come out and have fun, enjoy the guys, and put on a show for the fans. I mean, I'm happy I got the MVP. I really thought Eric Paschall or Collin was going to get it because they had more points than me, but I'm happy I got it too.   
 Q.  Miles, was there any motivation to win MVP playing for Michael Jordan and being part of the Charlotte Hornets?  
MILES BRIDGES: I mean, us coming from the Charlotte Hornets, we haven't been having the best season, so we wanted to come out and play hard in the Rising Stars and show what Charlotte is about, me, Devonte', and P.J., and that's what we did.   
I didn't have any extra motivation really, I wouldn't say that, but MJ putting Chicago on the map, it definitely plays a big part, though.   
 Q.  When you hear those words "Chicago basketball," in your experience growing up, what do those words bring to mind for you?  
MILES BRIDGES: I would say tough, gritty, played great defense. I mean, I grew up watching, I'd say, the Derrick Rose era, but Joakim Noah and all those guys. They hustled for everything that they had. Even now when we play Chicago, they're a good defensive team, and that's what I think of when I think of Chicago.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT