NBA DRAFT
June 21, 2018
Miles Bridges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MILES BRIDGES: Man, I'm just blessed to be here.  Not a lot of people get this opportunity to get drafted to the NBA.  It's been my dream since I could dream.  I'm blessed to be here.  Charlotte is a great city.  Michael Jordan is the owner.  We have great pieces.  I want to come in with a winning attitude, try and make the playoffs, develop under veterans like Nicolas Batum and those guys.  So I'm just happy to be in Charlotte.   
 Q.  What position do you think your game best translates to at the NBA level?  
MILES BRIDGES: I feel like I don't have a position.  I feel like you put me anywhere on the floor, I'll be comfortable.  I think that's going to be great for me coming in with Charlotte.   
 Q.  You've been banging on people your whole life, and you finally made it.  Who's the first person -- who do you have on your list?  
MILES BRIDGES: Draymond (Green), by far.  Yeah, definitely Draymond.   
 Q.  A lot of Kentucky players in the NBA; who have you been soaking up wisdom from?  
MILES BRIDGES: Kentucky?  I know Malik Monk.  John Wall.  I'm actually signed with the same agency as John Wall.  I talk to John Wall sometimes.  I know Malik.  We played against each other a lot, and he's going to be on my team.  It's going to be great playing with him.   
 Q.  Around this time a year ago you decided to return back to Michigan State; talk about now that you're at this part what made it so much more beneficial this time around versus last year when you decided to come back?  
MILES BRIDGES: I feel like my game has definitely matured.  I know how to play the game of basketball the right way.  I watched a lot of film.  I feel like I got better in my mental aspect of the game and my physical aspect.  I learned how to play on different parts of the floor, on the wing, on the inside.  I learned how to be an efficient player.   
 Q.  Does Jordan still challenge guys to one-on-one?  Do you think he's going to challenge you?  
MILES BRIDGES: I would definitely love to play MJ one-on-one.  But a lot of guys have said that and it's been bad for them, so I'm not going to try to jinx anything.   
 Q.  Now that everything is settled and you're going to Charlotte, do you wish you came out after your freshman year?  
MILES BRIDGES: Oh, no, I don't have any regrets.  Like I said, Charlotte is a great place.  I'm definitely going to try to make a push for the playoffs.  I'm going to give it all I've got every day.   
 Q.  There are a lot of different programs, Kansas, Kentucky, Duke, North Carolina, all these that get multiple players selected in the draft, but what does it say about the Michigan State program and Tom Izzo and just everything that they've endured as a whole to be able to pull together and you guys still staying focused, what does it say about the Michigan State program overall?  
MILES BRIDGES: Yeah, usually people talk about Coach Izzo not being able to develop players, but it kind of speaks for himself.  We have Draymond in the league.  Gary Harris.  Denzel Valentine.  And all those guys are doing pretty fine.  He just added two more in Jaren Jackson and myself.  I feel like Coach Izzo is great at developing people, and Michigan State as a staff is great at doing that, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT