WNBA FINALS: SPARKS VS LYNX
October 1, 2017
Nneka Ogwumike
Odyssey Sims
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Lynx - 80, Sparks - 69
Q. Nneka, rebounding was big in the stat sheet tonight and a big factor in the game.  Why do you think they were able to dominate the boards so thoroughly?
NNEKA OGWUMIKE: I mean, I think they had that mentality going in, and we responded a bit late.  We have to be able to keep rebounding in the forefront of our minds from the beginning of the game.
Q. How much do you think it'll help if at all knowing that you were in this similar situation last year and were able to win it on their home court?
NNEKA OGWUMIKE: I mean, I guess I could answer that.  No disrespect at all to that question, but I'm really tired of that question.  I mean, this year is this year.  No disrespect at all, that's just like the hundredth time I've heard it.
This year is a different year, and I know it's the same, and I know that's what everyone here wants to talk about, but it's a different year.
Q. Going forward what's your mentality you take after a loss like this?
ODYSSEY SIMS: We've just got to regroup.  We've got a quick turnaround, we've just got to get better in practice, watch film, correct, what we didn't do, have a lot more energy, stay positive, and get ready for Game 5.  It's that simple.
Q. Can you give us some insight into how the emotional roller coasting ride of a back and forth series affects you, and what will you do to get mentally and emotionally refreshed for Game 5?
NNEKA OGWUMIKE: I think right now there's a lot of emotions going on, but we can't dwell there.  You know, you can feel it, respect those feelings, but tomorrow is a new day.  We'll push forward from there.
Q. Odyssey, what was your reaction to that play, the Whalen flagrant foul, and how did you think both teams responded after that?
ODYSSEY SIMS: I mean, it was the beginning of the game.  It's over now.  We're not talking about that.  Like I said, our mindset is focusing on getting better and concentrating on Game 5.
Q. Odyssey, what were you -- when you came out hard in the fourth quarter, was there something you saw where it might have been -- where you would have those opportunities?
ODYSSEY SIMS: I'm just taking what the defense gives me, but right now it's not about me, it's about my team.  Collectively we have to do better, and we all know we have to do better.  We know what it has to take collectively as a group to regroup and to get better and focus on Game 5.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT