THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 4, 2012
Tom Gillis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TOM GILLIS:   It was just one of those days.   He played well.   I think any time you get in there and butt heads with the top players in the world, it's good for you.   
   
 Q.   The only guy who beat you is now the No. 1 in the world, and you tied the old No. 1 in the world.   That's pretty good?  
TOM GILLIS:   I'd say so.   Let's hope we can keep it up.   
   
 Q.   You now have a season to build on, don't you?   
TOM GILLIS:   Yeah, I do, and it's nice, because I'm in Bay Hill now and I'm in Memorial, Colonial, stuff like that.   So I knew I needed to work pretty hard these next two weeks to get in there because I had not done much.   But I feel good.   I'm happy and everything's good.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the day as a whole?   
TOM GILLIS:   Just like I said, it's good.   Tough day, it was hard to get anything going early and I had good chances, hit the ball close early in the first five, six holes and I didn't make anything, never got any momentum.  
All in all, I'll take it.   It was a good day, 1‑under out there, and just good.   
   
 Q.   How were the conditions?  
TOM GILLIS:   Got better as we finished up.   First nine, ten holes it was pretty stiff.   It is what it is.  
   
 Q.   What was the state of the game coming in here and what do you think is behind the good play this week?  
TOM GILLIS:   I think it's a state of mind.   I had a little bit different attitude this week.   I wasn't going to try too hard and that's pretty much it.   
   
 Q.   What brought that about?   
TOM GILLIS:   Just saying I wasn't going to try too hard.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about Rory and the round he played in those conditions with all that on the line?  
TOM GILLIS:   He made a lot of par putts, he made a 10‑footer on 2 and I think he made about a ten, 12‑footer on 7 and 15‑footer‑‑ he made all the putts he needed to make, which is what you've got to do and that's what top players do.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel?  
TOM GILLIS:   I was a little nervous, but I knew I was playing well, so I wasn't going to freak out or anything.   I really thought I could beat him.   I thought I could, if I got the putter going and got some momentum.   But it just didn't happen.   
   
 Q.   What are you proud of about this day?  
TOM GILLIS:   Just hanging in there.   You're always proud to shoot 1‑under in 20‑mile‑an‑hour winds.   
   
 Q.   More people know who you are now‑‑  
TOM GILLIS:   I think when you're in it all week, your name gets in there and that's good.   
   
 Q.   You were in it all the way to the end?  
TOM GILLIS:   Yeah, I tried to keep them honest.   On this golf course, he had a two‑ or three‑shot lead and I don't think he ever got anymore than that.   That's nothing around here with the Bear Trap.   So I just kept trying to hang in there and keep trying to put as much pressure on as I could, but he answered the bell.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT