JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2015
Tom Gillis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TOM GILLIS: He played beautifully.  Hit a lot of beautiful iron shots.  Yeah, we just kind of pulled each other along.  I made some putts on the back nine and hit some good shots. Got to keep going low here, though.  Wherever you are right now doesn't make a whole bit of difference with two more to go.   Q.  What about your game translates most favorably into the weekend that you've been doing well this week?  TOM GILLIS: I've been putting good for a quite a while, and I'm actually hitting the ball a little bit better.  My iron game is a little bit better this week. So we'll just carry that on and stay calm and patient and see what we get.   Q.  This golf course doesn't seem to favor any type of player.  Is it putting?  Is it ball striking?  What do you need to be successful to put together four good rounds?  TOM GILLIS: Well, I think your wedge game.  You get a lot of short irons, so your wedge game inside -- seem to get a lot of shots inside 140 yards.  If you got that dialed in and you can convert making eight-, ten-footers, you got a shot at shooting something low.   Q.  Talked about the round.  Started hot, finished hot.  Things were going well for you out there.  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, played really nice.  I had everything in order.  I had one three-putt over there I think on 5. Other than that, got to the back nine and played good there yesterday and played good there again today.  Back has been good to me. Golf course is in nice shape.  If you're hitting it -- if you got your iron game in control you're going to get a lot of looks.   Q.  Do you have a good feel at this point for whatever, irons on the green?  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, but I've had good feels before for two days and didn't have a good feel Saturday.  I don't really read too much into it.  You wake up and take the day it comes. There is a long ways to go.  You'll have to be in the 20s to have a shot at this before it's all said and done. That's usually the way it always is, so...   Q.  You're one back now.  A you said, there are so many guys so close.  TOM GILLIS: Really doesn't matter.  Does in the newspaper, but like I said, you're probably going to have put a two in front of it to have a shot at it. Might as well just put your head down and go to work and see where you end up Sunday afternoon.   Q.  Is that part of being the veteran that you are?  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, I think veteran or not, even young guys know that.  We're only halfway there.  Going to have to be pretty spot on for four days to win here. You're not going to be able to have long stretches where you don't make any birdies.  It's not that kind of tournament.   Q.  (Indiscernible.)  TOM GILLIS: Well, I don't think it matters at all tomorrow.  It may have matter a little Sunday, but you never know.  A guy at 11- or 12-under on Sunday could shoot 8 and 10 off at 11:00. So maybe the last few holes it would matter.  Don't matter yet.   Q.  Been doing this a long time.  You gotten off to starts like this before?  TOM GILLIS: Yeah.  Yeah, I mean, I've had shots.  I think in 2012 at the Honda I was either leading or one back from Rory McIlroy and ended up finishing second with him and Tiger. I've been there before.  Been doing it for 25 years.  At some point you've been there.   Q.  What do you need to do to keep sustaining it?  TOM GILLIS: Hitting quality shots.  It's really a simple formula:  Just got to keep playing good.  It's so hard to win out here now.  You just got to keep your foot on the pedal and not get too far ahead of yourself and keep hitting quality shots and see if you can make those putts.   Q.  This is obviously a course that agrees with you in some way, though.  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, I finished 12th here before, you know, back when we played in the fall.  I like it.  I'm putting -- I would say in the last five or six years I didn't putt as good here as I would have liked to, especially growing up on bentgrass greens. But I seem to have a pretty good read for them this week.   Q.  Did you think you could make a comeback with as low as the scores have been?  Did you feel confident you could have a comeback in you?  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, I guess I never really thought about the lead or anything like that.  I just kept trying to stuff those irons in there.  You got to keep going, keep your foot on the pedal.  It's Friday.   Q.  Do you think the course will keep to par as it has been first two days?  TOM GILLIS: I think it'll be pretty consistent.  I really do.  I don't think it'll change a whole lot.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT