TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2015
Tom Gillis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Tom, you go ahead and par your first eight holes.  You birdie the 9th, you played the rest of the golf course in 5-under par.  Was that an adjustment you made or just building around?  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, not really.  I was just trying to settle in.  I had a week off and felt a little uptight first, pretty much throughout the whole day.  I don't know if it's something I ate or whatever.  I just felt a little uptight.  Then finally got the putt to go on 9 and just kept chipping away at it.  One after another kept going, so here we are, 5-under.   Q.  Yeah, including your birdie, your fifth birdie of the day at the 17th.  How much did that ball clear the water by?  You were just on the fringe.  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, not by much which was surprising because we only had 132 to cover downwind, and I hit a wedge, and I hit it pretty good.  Like I never, ever thought it was close to the water.  When it landed there, I was somewhat surprised, and that was just a bonus.  I was just trying to cozy it up there.   Q.  (Indiscernible).  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, that was a bonus.   Q.  Though you putted well all season long.  I think you're 14th in strokes in putting on TOUR?  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, that really hasn't been the issue for me the last, I would say, 4 out of 5 years out here, whatever.  It's just been the iron play really.  So we're trying to sharpen that up.   Q.  Did you do anything with your irons today because you came in, as you know, you have struggled.  I'll just mention the number.  You're 191 in greens in regulation this year.  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, well, I haven't played much either.  I missed four months with a shoulder surgery.  I played three events with the shoulder surgery, and I probably only played maybe 10 or 11 total, so I think that had something to do with it.   Q.  You had nine events coming in this year.  This is your tenth.  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, so I shouldn't have come back so fast as I did on the shoulder.  But the iron game, the last few years when I was out here, it hasn't been as good as I'd like it to be.  So I don't know.  I don't know if it's age or what.  Who knows.  I just hope to get hot one week.  I used to be a great iron player and a bad putter, now I'm a good putter and an average iron player.   Q.  In your mind, what went well today shot-wise?  TOM GILLIS: Well, I putted good really.  I hit the ball on the fairway for the most part and didn't really get in any trouble, I would say.  It was just a pretty easy day, really, overall.   Q.  Did you sense that it might be that kind of a good round day?  TOM GILLIS: No, I didn't have any expectations really at all.  I was just kind of wanting to ease into the round and get settled in.  Just had a week off last week.  Didn't do any golf at all at home because I was going to play five weeks in a row.  So I was just, I figured I could be a little rusty and we'll just deal with it.   Q.  Have you been here before?  TOM GILLIS: This is probably my seventh or eighth one.   Q.  Have you had much success?  TOM GILLIS: I believe I've had a top 10 here.  I think I finished 8th or 12th, something like that here.  I played all right here.  I like it.  It's a great golf course.   Q.  Does it seem to fit any particular part of your game more than another?  TOM GILLIS: No, I don't think so.  I just think it's a good golf course tee to green.  You know, you've got to drive the ball long.  You've got to hit good, quality irons.  I've always liked that.   Q.  When you have a good round in an afternoon position and then you get the morning the next day, do you feel like maybe it's -- you're prone to having better rounds in the morning?  TOM GILLIS: Yeah, I think you can stay in the flow.  You get right back out here and you stay in the flow.  You don't have to sit for close to 24 hours.  But I've played well both sides of it.  At the end of the day I don't know if it really totally matters.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT