AT&T NATIONAL
June 29, 2013
Tom Gillis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tom, 5 under par, 66, in round 3.   You got to be happy with that.   
TOM GILLIS:   Yeah, I'm definitely happy.   I would have liked to have parred the last, but it's a pretty tough hole.   They've got the tee all the way back.   
But it was a good day.   I played well.   I played really well on the front and got off to a good start.   Just had a good feel all day.   Just one of those rounds you wish you could bottle and have it when you wanted it.  
   
 Q.   Seven birdies, what was your strength there?   
TOM GILLIS:   I hit my irons good.   I think that was the key.   I drove it fairly well early.   Hit some good irons.   Putted well.   
   
 Q.   On the 18th hole, you caught a spectator.   
TOM GILLIS:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What happened there?   
TOM GILLIS:   I just was trying to lay it up, keep it out of that water left down the right side.   Just pushed it a little bit and hit that poor lady in the head.   I felt terrible for her.   She was kind of crying, and she was in pain, but she was trying to laugh.   
So I was just like what can I do for her?   I signed a glove for her.   That was the best I could do.   I said, it doesn't take your pain away, but hopefully it will be worth something one day.  
   
 Q.   You find yourself five shots out of the lead right now.   What are you looking for tomorrow?   
TOM GILLIS:   The same thing would be nice.   If I make seven birdies tomorrow, I'll be pretty happy.   You just take it as it comes.   Who knows what's going to happen?   
I hope I get that iron game in the morning on the range feeling like it did today, and I'll have some confidence going out.  
   
 Q.   Tom, great round out there today.   If we could just get some comments.   
TOM GILLIS:   It was good.   Had a really good warmup.   I felt good going out.   Just got off to a good start right on the 1st with birdie.   Played a good front nine, some good irons in there close, made some putts, and had a good feel.   
So just one of those days that you're pleased about.   Like I said, I wish I could have a lot more of those in this game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT