UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 17, 2016
Brian Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH KELLY: I think we've already had our intro with everybody here.  We're 15 practices in.  The normal grind of preseason practice.
So I think it's probably better than we cut right to the questions that many of you have about the progress of our football team and the preparation for our opener.  I'll dispense with the obligatory, we're going to be the best team in the country, and let you guys ask the questions that you came here for.
Q. I'd better ask the injury question.  What's going on with Jay Hayes?
COACH KELLY: Jay Hayes, ankle.  He's grade one, high ankle sprain.  Not a severe one.  Been in the boot now, I think this is his third day, fourth day.  That's generally seven to ten days but we'll take it each day.  We'll feel good that we'll have him ready for the Texas game.
Q. In the spring, your hope and thought was that you have recruited to your system well enough that you would start to reap benefits -- are you seeing that?
COACH KELLY: I think it starts with depth, right.  You have a system that employs both three down, four down, more of a man, nickel, flexible sub package defense.  So you need depth there.  I think we've recruited to the depth of that defense.
Now, albeit that they are young players, they are talented players that are going to have to play for us early in their career.  But we feel like a number of them are in a position to play this year and they will have to play this year.  We don't have the luxury to wait around for them to be second-, third-year players.
The answer to the question is, we have recruited to that, and now we just have to play them a little bit sooner than maybe we want to, but we think that they are talented to go up there and make up for any lack of experience, if you will.
Q. Stayed away from the quarterbacks a lot, but your curious at this point --
COACH KELLY: Jump in the fray.  Don't be afraid.
Q. What more do you need to see?  It sounds like from what you've said to this point, each one brings different strengths and you're not playing the same playbook.  So what do you need to see to make that decision at this point?
COACH KELLY: You always bring the pragmatic approach to most of your questions.  So I would say that you're right.  There's not anything else that we can see.
They have both have been outstanding.  They both make plays.  They both are playmakers.  We would just continue to practice and continue to see both of these guys make plays.  So we're going to play both of them at Texas.  Both of them will play at Texas and both of them have been instructed to keep doing what they are doing.  But both of them will play against Texas.
Q. Eventually, would you like there to be separation, or does it not bother you to play two?
COACH KELLY: It doesn't bother me playing two going into the Texas game, and we'll see what happens the next week against Nevada.  I'm focused strictly on Texas and we are best prepared to beat Texas by playing both DeShone and Malik.
Q. Justin Yoon, he might be firing pretty well but we've seen some misses in our practices.  Just wonder if that's typical this time of year, or is he just getting used to older?
COACH KELLY: No, I don't think the old -- I think Montgomery has done a really good job.  Scott has done a great job of snapping.  A little bit, just mechanical.  It's just a routine that he's got to get into.  We felt like, you know, a couple times, he just doesn't finish the way he needs to.
But when he finishes on the ball, and I think his first one in overtime was from 45 yards, you know, he is really effective.  And so it's just really just being consistent with his mechanics.  His operation times are outstanding, so it has nothing to do with operation.  Just consistency in his mechanics.  I think he's close.
He's not there yet, but I think when we get ready to play Texas, I think he'll be right on.
Q. You're saying both could play against Texas.  You mentioned earlier that the offense is evolving with each one, so you've seen the offense evolve in the way that you wanted with each one so far?
COACH KELLY: Yeah, I have.
Q. So how would that play out?  Would it be kind of like we saw against LSU necessarily with guys switching off drives, or would it be situational?
COACH KELLY: I think there's room for both of those scenarios to unfold.  I think both of their skill sets have slight differences, but both of them are playmakers.
If I list our top five playmakers, they are in it.  So my ultimate decision was I couldn't put one of those guys on the sideline against Texas.
As it relates to running the offense, the offense is seamless when one of them would come out of the game.  There's not a big change when one is in versus the other.  There's play call differences, but that doesn't require much change at all.
And then there are some situational down and distance and field position consideration that will go into that, as well.  This is not a first quarter, second quarter, third quarter, fourth quarter, one guy plays the first and third and one guy plays the second and fourth.
Q. The receivers today, we saw you giving coaching to Miles Boykin and that.  Have you seen anyone start to play with a little bit more consistency at that position outside of maybe Torii Hunter so far?
COACH KELLY: Well, I think they have all, in particular, Equanimeous, Miles, Chase, have been more consistent, no question, route running, catching the football.  There's been that consistency certainly from the first week to the third week.  So we are getting more consistent.
We are not at the level that we need to at a championship level.  They are playing okay but we need better.  We have a high standard for that play and they are getting better, but they need to get better quicker.
Q. Curious what you've seen from Nyles Morgan so far in camp?
COACH KELLY: Really solid play.  Consistently solid.  In all the facets that a linebacker will play:  Getting your defense lined up, front in particular, communication, accountability; both personal and for other players, physical; both in his run fits and in the passing game.  Got to come down a little bit, when it's a tag off, he think it's still tackle.  Probably a good trait for a middle linebacker.  Wouldn't want it the other way.  But he's been really good.
Feel really good about him.  We got Greer in there, Greer March tiny to play some Mike linebacker.  Liked the way he played the other day.  Developing some depth at that position has been good, as well.
Q. Back to the quarterbacks.  Curious how both are going to play, at least in week one.  How have you presented that to them?  They are obviously competitive guys and both of them I'm sure want the job.  How have they handled that?
COACH KELLY: Yeah, look, quarterbacks in particular, and not like it's different -- and I think you've probably said it best.  Always players are extremely competitive.  I'm sure each one of them down deep wants to be the starting quarterback.  Though they didn't show it, I'm sure they are disappointed; that they want to be the smarter.  But they understand that my decisions are based upon what's best for Notre Dame football, and not necessarily what's in their best interest.
What's in their best interest is that they are the starter.  What's in our best interest is that both of them help us win and help us beat Texas.  That's in the best interest of Notre Dame football, and I make decisions as the head football coach as to what is in the best interest of Notre Dame football.
Sometimes that's hard for an individual to understand, but they understand team comes first, and that's what's most important.  There's always going to be that struggle with the individual versus the team.  They clearly understand that team is most important and winning and beating Texas is more important than how they feel about the current situation.
But down deep, I'm sure they are probably not happy with sharing the position.
Q. Did you think that making that decision this far out from the opener, will it calm them or relax them, not be looking over their shoulder or thinking they have to win the job?
COACH KELLY: I did it for a reason.  I made this decision this early because it was clear to me that the more we practiced, the more that they were going to make plays.  It was not going to change anything.  Both of these guys were two of our top playmakers.
So the decision was made, and then I think now they can just settle into getting better every day.  They don't have to worry about a competition for the Texas game.  They can just focus on getting better.
You know, whatever the by-product of that is, I thought would be a positive, and that's why I made the decision at this time.
Q. Do you feel the need to find the Will linebacker, the right guard, especially the right guard, and a little cohesion to go in the offense?
COACH KELLY: Well, Greer has been playing mostly Will linebacker, and he's done a really good job there.
Will linebacker is in pretty good hands.  And Te'von is there, as well.  But I like where we are with Greer and Nyles and James and Te'von is really a solid guy for us, as well.  Gives us a lot of flexibility.  I like those four guys a lot.
The right guard is still a work-in-progress.  Colin McGovern got a lot of work there.  Got a little heated and had to have an IV after practice, but you know, he's been battling there with Tristen Hoge, so that's still a competitive battle and I think that that will continue to go.
Q. Is Greer a good strength for you guys, that he can back up every position, along with starting at will?
COACH KELLY: That certainly helps.  But he's got to be good enough to hold off a really good player in Te'von Coney, too.  We don't want him to be a Jack of all trades and master of none.  We've given him enough work at will that he can solidify that position first, which he has.  And then that's what we started to move him around to Mike a little bit and a little bit at Sam, as well.
Q. Wondering where you stand as far as the running backs.  Do you hope to have one featured more or evenly divided between the three?
COACH KELLY: I think he'll do what we did last year and play the hot hand.  When C.J. got hot, we played him quite a bit.  When Josh got hot, we played him.  But I do think that we are a little bit different this year in that we do have some different styles.
Folston is a really good runner between the tackles, very instinctive.  Plays with really good pad level.  And when you look up after the run, he's picked up six yards and you didn't even think that he picked up six yards.
Josh Adams is a guy that strikes the edge of the defense.  Long-legged, explosive guy that really hits the edge quite well.
And Dexter is a guy that can do both, run at inside and outside.  I think maybe this year, the three of them are different runners in that sense.
So I think all three of them will get a chance to run in certain situations, but I still think we'll go with that guy that's really hot and feeling it from an offensive perspective.
Q. Does it change depending on who the quarterback is?  Does your running game change with who the quarterback is?
COACH KELLY: No, I think the one thing that may change a little bit is Folston is a very experienced player, and you know, that first time out there, 98,000 people, you kind of go to the guy that has a little bit more experience and Folston is that guy.  And certainly Josh has that experience, too, but third down situations, Folston is an excellent guy coming out of the backfield.
So, you know, we'll tend to look to guys that have great experience in certain situations, and you know, Folston carries some of those experiences with him that make him a natural for certain situations.
Q. Can you talk about developing an identity for a team?  Is it more challenging when you have two quarterbacks, three running backs and so many receivers; how do you develop it with so many diverse people out there?
COACH KELLY: Play calling.  Play calling develops the identity.  If you're all over the map in terms of what you're doing -- are you a team that is not committed to something; are you a team that is not balanced and can't run the football or is going to throw it every down.  Your identity really comes from inside out and that is controlling the line of scrimmage.
So that's what I mean relative to identity.  It's going to be plug and play with the quarterbacks and running backs, provided your system of offense allows to you grow an identity and we'll do that from some play calling.
Q. And does having two quarterbacks make your job tougher in that you have to try to keep two people happy who are going to be competing for who gets the more time, who gets the key plays, who gets the touchdowns, that sort of thing; who is the leader of the team?
COACH KELLY: Well, both of them have to lead when they are out there.  There's no question about that.  They have to be commanding the offense.  They have to be clear in their communication and both of capable of doing that, or we wouldn't play both of them against Texas.
Having said that, it's never easy playing two quarterbacks.  It's much easier just playing one.  But we're in the business of winning and so if it's a little bit harder on us, then we can make that work, if the net is we win the football game.
Yeah, there's no question that some people shy away from this kind of business in terms of playing, too, because it's easier to just play one.  My job is to win, and my belief is playing both of them gives us a better chance to win.
Q. How is it harder -- and I'm curious more in the week during meetings.  You can't practice more, so how is it harder for the coaches in terms of coming up with a game plan.  Do you have to put more time into it?  How does that all work?
COACH KELLY: Well, no, I think it's harder on game day more than anything else.  I think, you know, quarterbacks want to be in a rhythm.  Quarterbacks want to feel as though they won't get pulled out if they make a bad throw.  They don't want to feel as though there's any pressure on them to try to force a throw to stay on the field, you know, and so I think that that's where it's more difficult.
And so that's where you have to be really good at what your plan is and how you're going to work both quarterbacks into the game, and the situations and the flow of the game.  You have to get both of them understanding that if they make a bad throw, they are not getting yanked, you know.  Or they are in a 12-play drive, and if you bring somebody else in, they have to understand the reasons for it.  So that's a little bit trickier.  That's a little bit more difficult.
Q. Going back to when you walked out of the stadium after the spring game, what was the moment along the way where you were like, you know what this is unconventional but I have to do this.
COACH KELLY: These two guys are too good.  I'm just watching them in practice every day and they are making plays.  Then I watch our other players around them, and they are clearly not as good as these two guys.  These two guys make too many plays.
And it was just counterintuitive for me to take one of them off the field at the expense of putting somebody else on the field for so many more plays and saying, you're the No. 2, you're not going to play in this game.  It just didn't make any sense to me.  The more I went through this preseason camp and watched both of them make plays, and not just with the first unit.  Malik would go with the first and he'd score.  Kizer would come with the second and he'd score.  And it was kind of like that the whole team.
We had 257 reps going into today.  They had two interceptions, combined, in 257 reps.  And that's with, you know, guys not in the right position and running the wrong routes.  It's been remarkable.  These guys have played so well, that I have to change course and put both of them on the field.
Q. When do you expect to name new captains this year?
COACH KELLY: Well, we just submitted our list to our faculty board for approval.  So we're in the process of making that happen here.
Q. Your vote, coach's name, then?
COACH KELLY: I haven't decided.  We get the names first approved, and then I decide whether we are going to put it before you're unity council, our team or we do a limited democracy vote.
Q. And big, big picture.  There are programs that have to rebuild when they lose what you guys lost, and there are programs that reload.  With the program at large and the university, what are some of the things that you feel like have helped you get more and more towards the reloading end of that, whereas when you got here, maybe it would be more of a rebuild?
COACH KELLY: Well, winning.  Winning helps.  National recognition for winning.  You know, recruiting.  Those two things go hand in hand.
But I think the work in recruiting, along with the winning and really the wins that we had and that national recognition, coupled with taking advantage of that through recruiting.  Maybe a little bit of our success in guys moving on to the NFL and having some good success there.  I think if you put all those three things together, that's helped quite a bit.
Q. Back in the spring game, one thing you talked about Kizer was him doing better in the red zone with scoring and not going for field goals.  Still in preseason, but have you seen some growth there or how have you seen him grow in that area?
COACH KELLY: Yes, we've worked extensively in that area.  And I say extensively; made a conscious effort in our practice plans.  I put together all the practice plans to spend almost double the time that we had last year at this time in the red zone.  And so he's gotten so much more work, him and Malik in particular.
So I think that extra work has just afforded him a more comfortable level in that area.  He's working the areas in the red zone so much more efficiently and I think he's grown to the level that I have wanted him, both him and Malik, in that area.
Q. Are there any places in particular with their games that you would like to see them grow more so in, or that you might be focused on looking for, especially come the Texas game?
COACH KELLY: Yeah, we've got to do a little bit better on our play-action pass concepts and throws.  Some of that is with our receivers.  You know, you come out of play-action pass and you've got to throw it before they get out of their break, and it's not, you know -- you've got to trust where your guys are.
Those two are doing incredible in our three-step, five-step game, our screen game, they are throwing somewhere near 70 percent.  We have to do a better job in some of our playaction stuff, and we'll spend the next three, four days on that.
Q. Having the interchangeable offense, where do you feel your biggest strength lies now on your team?
COACH KELLY: I think there's a number of different areas for us that we like.  Certainly from a defensive standpoint, we're going to be able to be multiple and do a lot of things and cause some confusion.  I think we're going to do a very good job of playing the football.  I think our safety play is going to be really strong.
I think up front, we'll be able to stop the run and at times get after the quarterback.  So I think defensively, we'll see a lot more of the things that everybody looks for from a defense that is much more pressure-oriented.
Offensively, I think we're going to be able to run the ball effectively.  I think when you start with good football, you stop the run and you run the football.
Q. If they are two of the top five playmakers, would you actually consider using them on the field at the same time?
COACH KELLY: Yeah, I would.  I would definitely consider it.
Q. How would you do that?
COACH KELLY: Couldn't tell you.  (Laughter) I'd have to do something and I don't want to do that to you (laughs).
Q. With so many injuries today in football, and with the advancements of sports medicine, you would think there is less.  John Fox of the Bears just said it's a tougher game.  The game today is so tough, you're going to have injuries regardless.  Do you have an explanation of why so many kids, especially college level are blowing out ACLs, tearing hamstrings?  Is it because the game is that tough?
COACH KELLY: Oh, boy.  We could do a whole couple hours on this.  You know, we've really extensively got into this.  I think you have to bring in the science, the health.  Science has to be part of this, because the players are so big, they are so fast, they are so strong; we're playing on surfaces that help them play even faster.  We're putting these young men in positions to move so fast and so quickly that we're putting such stress on their joints and at times they can't hold up.
It's up to us to do full functional moving screens to find out if there are any deficiencies, which we're doing to help them build up their bodies, so they can withstand running at the high rates of speed that they are.  We have to protect their head and do that in practice and make sure that we don't lose man hours because of head injuries.
Yeah, they are bigger, they are faster, they are stronger, and as coaches and as trainers and doctors, we all have to look at ways that we can cut down on those injuries.  Is there prevention?  No, I don't think you can prevent them, but I think you can cut back on them.
We feel really lucky right now on the things that we've done this year have really helped us a lot in a number of those areas.
Q. Speaking of ACL injuries, can you talk about True Tranquill.  Where do you see him on the depth chart and were would you want to play him?
COACH KELLY: Drue is a physical player, a great, strong safety, if you will.  He is very versatile and can play in some of our sub packages, and to the point where he's a guy that we can blitz and do a number of different things with him.  But he's certainly a guy that plays close to the line of scrimmage.  A guy that has the skills to do a number of things.  As you know, he's a very smart kid.  He picks up a lot of the different schemes that we have.  And he's reliable.  You're going to give him a task and he's going to get it done for you.
Consistency, reliability and the ability to do a lot of different tasks for us.
Q. You've talked about wanting to establish a deeper rotation along the defensive line going into this season, so guys like Isaac and Jarron can limit their reps.  Where are you guys right now as far as developing that rotation and have guys that are playing because they have earned that, or are you still in the process of trying to force that issue a little bit?
COACH KELLY: No, we're getting -- as camp goes along, Pete Mokwuah has done a nice job for us.  He's had some good practices for us.  He continues to get better each and every day.  Brandon Tiassum is still learning but developing.
We're certainly further along than we were at this time last year in terms of that shape position and beginning some more depth at that position particularly.  Having two guys like that is pretty good.  If we can get to three, which we're getting better there, that's a pretty good rotation at any level.
Q. Does having more opportunities to kind of go nickel and dime, which you've said you're able to do with guys being back, and then young freshmen, red-shirt freshmen guys are in; does that help you save some reps for guys, maybe with your defensive linemen, as well?
COACH KELLY: Yeah, absolutely.  And now those guys aren't playing with those situations inside.  You're moving, you know, Isaac Rochell is playing inside, you're moving some different personnel inside and eating up some of those reps that they would normally get.  That's how you're stretching the games and stretching the reps for some of those big guys inside.
Q. Jon Bonner you've been moving around a lot, playing some three technique and some end.  Where is he in his development and what progress have you seen from him becoming a playmaker?
COACH KELLY: He's got to let it go.  I mean, he's coming.  He's making progress here.  You see some glimpses of it.  He's a really good athlete.  Plays a little hesitant at times but when he let's it go, he's a really good athlete.  Big, strong, physical kid.  But we're seeing some progress with Jonathan every day and I think he'll continue to see that.
Q. What has been the biggest surprise for you through two weeks, whether it's a player or development?  Anything jump out that you did not expect so far?
COACH KELLY: You know, probably some of the freshmen that have been able to handle themselves.  I think, not that they are going -- like Tony Jones has been really good, but he's probably not going to play very much.  We've got three great backs but he's been really good.  Chase Claypool, he's been really good.  He's going to have a hard time playing a lot.
There's a lot of young guys that have come in here not afraid to compete, which I love.  And that's what we wanted from our freshmen.  All the DBs and safeties, they all have come in, not afraid to compete.  I love that.  Doesn't mean they are going to play.
But what I -- and I don't know if I'm surprised as much, because that's what we want when we recruit them.  I guess I'm pleased to see so many of our young players come in, and not be blinded by the bigness or be overwhelmed with being at Notre Dame.  They have come in and competed and really, that's probably struck me more so than any freshman class that I've had here at Notre Dame; that they are not afraid to come in here and compete.  They are not ready.  They think they are, but that's been fun to watch.
Q. With McGlinchey, obviously he's very good, but what does he need to do to get to the level of Ronnie Stanley level or the Martin brothers, at that level?  Isaac Rochell, obviously very versatile guy, do you think versatility is his best trait, or what are his best strengths and weaknesses as an individual player?
COACH KELLY: Remember, Mike was not an offensive lineman, a polished offensive lineman.  He's evolved into one of the very good offensive linemen in the country through great, great hard work on his part.  I mean, he's made himself.
Ronnie was born to be an offensive tackle.  Great bender, great knee bender, great feet, great pass sets.  Mike is evolving into that.  He needs to continue to grow into being a great pass setter.  He's played with great balance this year.  Probably a little overextended at times last year.  Showing great balance, staying on his feet, finishing off blocks.  Continues to evolve as a pass protector and he's doing that.  But again, he was a lot more of a raw player, if you will, than Ronnie.
Isaac Rochell has been outstanding.  He was more of a four technique, inside, hold the point player.  He's been extremely versatile for us, playing in our sub package now inside, holding the point as a six technique and a nine technique.  He's going to help himself a lot at the next level with his versatility because he's moving so well.  His improvement has been strength and his ability to move his feet.
Q. What are the main indicators you look for on the defense to show improvement, not just the start of the season but to sustain?
COACH KELLY: Well, it's consistency.  Especially, you know, look, the techniques necessary to play corner and safety require an attention to detail that is really like no other position.  If you're off just a little at corner and you don't use your right technique, you're going to get beat at the sideline for a touchdown.
So I think it's that mental and physical consistency on a day-to-day basis that sometimes alludes some of the young kids when they get tired.  Cole Luke has been outstanding at it this year.  He's a senior.  He's say veteran.  Where at times, his technique escaped him last year, it doesn't escape him very much at all.
So it's that consistency of technique and then the attention to the detail, is what we need to see week-in and week-out.  We're getting more of it, but we're going to need much more from that group.
Q. A situation where you maybe go hot hand at quarterback, is that a possibility, or can you afford yourself to use both of them?
COACH KELLY: They are both going to play.  How it unfolds, I mean, the game will dictate a lot of that.  I'd be like to tell you that I could give you an exact answer other than they both have to get on the field and they both have to impact the game in some fashion.
Q. You've had some time now to assess everybody over a period of time.  Wondering if there's a couple of guys maybe on offense and a couple guys on defense, wasn't sure he was going to help us, but now he's making strides and might be in that mix.
COACH KELLY: You know, I think from an offensive standpoint, you know, Colin McGovern is a guy that is going to help us.  I wasn't sure where he was going to end up for us, whether he was just going to be a guy, a depth guy that we were going to count on.  He's going to have to help us, there's no question about that.
I think if you look at the receiving core, I think Miles Boykin is going to help us, too.  Those two guys, I wasn't sure about coming in but those guys will help us on offense.
Q. As you run down the list --
COACH KELLY: We've preplanned that.  I don't come in and go, oh, we need to get a Z.  No, those decisions are made well in advance as to, you know, replacements at particular positions.
We like all of our players.  It's just a matter of, you know, are they ready to beat the teams that we have on our schedule.  They are all going to be really good players.  It's just our situation is, they have got to do it now.  We don't have time to wait.
Q. When you look at the tight end position, it seems like it was really starting to build back up with Smythe coming back from an injury, Tyler electing not to transfer and he stays at Notre Dame and then the recent news of Alizé Jones missing out.  It seems like that's going to be hurting a little bit at that position.  But what does he bring specifically and that was unique to the table that the team is going to be missing out on and how does the program move forward with the other guys?
COACH KELLY: I don't think we're missing anything.  He's a heck of a cheerleader, though.  If you come to our practices, he's a great cheerleader.  So we're going to miss that, if he doesn't go on the road with us.  But I don't think he'll travel, so we'll lose that.
I think I said this, he didn't score a touchdown for us last year.  He's a great talent, but a talent that has not been tapped yet.  He'll get a chance to do that next year.
But I like the guys that we have at the position.  So you know, we'll be fine at the tight end position.  We'll have good production there from Durham and Nick.  And then Tyler will provide us with some really good depth.  Jacob will also be an inline guy for us.  I feel pretty good about the tight end position.  Alizé will get his chance next year and we'll see where it ends up, but right now, he's going to be on scout team.
Q. Just curious, have you had a group of receivers with as much lack of game experience heading into a season before?
COACH KELLY: Oh, yeah.  Oh, yeah.  Absolutely.
Q. What are some traits that you look for in camp?
COACH KELLY: Nothing.  I'm concerned.  They are all young.  I mean, I'm concerned with every one of them.  Torii Hunter, how many catches -- where is my resident stat guy?  How many catches?  35?  He's had 35 catches.
So I mean, they are all suspects to me, you know.  So they all have to go out and prove themselves.  Having said that, it does me no good to worry about it; but to coach it and develop it during practice and get them ready.  They are all capable of doing it, but I'm concerned about all of them, because none of them have really had a full year of production yet.
So it's just a matter of going out there every single day and building their confidence and building their mental toughness.  But that's the biggest thing with the young receivers is they are all sore right now.  They are all tired.  All their hamstrings hurt, you know, and they are playing hurt for the first time.  Every practice that they go out there, they are about 75 percent, and they want to be 100 percent.
And so we are going through that whole process of, hey, you got to fight through this.  So that's the process we are in, and we'll get them through it.  But they are all suspects right now.
Q. Question about Coach Denbrock, and as far back as you go at Grand Valley, can you just speak to the relationship you guys have and how you complement each other?
COACH KELLY: Well, Mike was my defensive coordinator at Grand Valley.  He wasn't a very good defensive coordinator (Laughter).  So I moved him to offense and he's been great on offense.  He's had a great career on offense, whether it be, you know, coaching the offensive line, wide receivers, running backs, tight ends.  He's coached virtually every position on the offensive line.
He knows the offense and the system and he knows what I look for and what I'm trying to do, and so it's a great relationship, because I don't have to micromanage him.  All I have to do is kind of say, this is the direction I would like to go, and he's off and running.
So any time you have that, and a longstanding relationship with somebody that knows exactly where you want to go, it allows to you do so many other things and it allows me to help coach some of the players at a level, a grass roots level that sometimes the head coach doesn't get a chance to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT