ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2014
Brian Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  BRIAN KELLY:   Well, looking forward obviously to playing Louisville.   Coach Petrino has obviously a great track record, very successful head coach.   And he's got his team and the ACC playing very well the first year.   
We're looking to bounce back after a disappointing loss to northwestern.   Anxious to play.   It's our seniors Senior Day and certainly want to play well for them.   Again, excited about the opportunity to play a very good Louisville team, but more so want to get back out and obviously play better football from this past weekend.   Just waiting for Saturday.   
   
 Q.   Obviously talked a little bit about the loss you just had, and after having back‑to‑back the biggest thing you were able to learn about your team, just some of the key points that you were able to take to grow your team to go into this Louisville game?  
BRIAN KELLY:   Well, I don't know that there's much that we didn't know about our team.   We're still a young defense.   We're still evolving, trying to get these guys more experience, getting them lined up, getting them mistake‑free has been a challenge.  
And then from an offensive standpoint, take care of the football, critical, critical mistakes, and then at the most inopportune times.   I think we know a lot about them.  
The response that we got after the loss to Arizona State was that they played with great effort.   Their attitude has been great.   Those are the things they can control.  
Now they've got to control the things like turnovers and mistakes, and that's what we'll be looking to see on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   And then as far as your quarterback, just to go into his evolution throughout the season, what you not only take into this game, but what you've seen from him, just what you've been able to see from Everett?  
BRIAN KELLY:   Well, he makes a ton of plays.   But those plays are tempered by some mistakes.   And we really have to eradicate the inconsistency.   Those are the things that are really ‑‑ we knew going into the season we were going to be playing to a young defense.   
And I felt like in these last two weeks that our offensive could carry us.   And we had a number of opportunities to score enough points, we've turned the football over.   And Everett is the guy that has his hands on the football.  
So what I'm looking for him is we know you can make plays, but you still have the manage the game and you still have to take care of the football.   And that's the maturity that I need to continue to see from him.   And he wants to do it.   He's just got to go do it on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned reducing mistakes.   How did you get your team to reduce turnovers when you're facing that Louisville defense, that Louisville secondary that's good at the take away?  
BRIAN KELLY:   Well, again, I think there's a number of things that we have to do better.   No. 1, we had three fumbles that had no result in contact.   As much as just sloppiness.   And so cleaning up the things that we can do to control it.   Louisville has got great ball skills.   If you don't run your routes with precision and throw on time and do those things, they're going to take the ball away from you.   And we know that.  
If we can control the fundamentals on our end, you know, we can overcome a mistake.   We're not going to be perfect, but we can overcome a mistake, and Louisville is a very good defense.   We know that.   And we're not going to play timid.   But what we have to take care of is the carelessness that we have shown over the last couple of weeks and at times during the season.   That's really been the big emphasis.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you when you look at Louisville's film, how much of a difference does Parker make?   They got him back at this season and seems to be playing at a high level?  
BRIAN KELLY:   He's another piece, there's no question.   He's a match up problem.   So he's another guy that allows Coach Petrino the opportunity to push the ball down the field for big time plays.   He's got great range.   He's got the ability to go up and get the football.   He reminds me a lot of the kid from Arizona State, strong, you get one‑on‑one match ups, he's difficult to defend.  
So you've got to know where he is at all times.   He just adds another dimension to a pretty balanced offensive.   With the tight ends quick, and the running game and Dyer, a quarterback that's athletic, it just ads so much more balance to their offense.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned the quarterback.   Obviously they've had their change from Gardner, who played one style to Bonnafon who is a different kind of player.   How does their offense change with the changing quarterback?   
BRIAN KELLY:   Well, Bonnafon is a guy that you can put on the edge a little bit more.   He's a guy that's very athletic, not that Gardner was not.   But you have a tendency to think he can do more with his feet.  
But their system is going to be their system.   I think that they're not going to sway too much from that.   He can definitely get you out of some trouble with his feet.   And I just think he brings a little bit more athleticism.   He doesn't bring the experience to the position but he definitely brings a little bit more athleticism to the position.   
   
 Q.   This is a little off topic, but in light of Todd Gurley's injury at Georgia, the questions come up whether maybe the NFL draft eligibility rule should be lowered for players who might be considered ready for the League.   I was wondering if you had a thought on that subject?  
BRIAN KELLY:   Well, I just think if you paint with a broad brush in this game it's very difficult.   Certainly there are certain positions that may have that ability and namely maybe the running back or the skill position.   But when you're talking about linemen, those guys physically need the time to develop.   And so I think it's a very difficult decision to make in football in this sport compared to basketball, for example, because you're dealing with such a different skill set at different positions.  
That power position, those linemen, versus that skill set position, the DBs and the wide receivers and the running backs.   They're so different.   And to paint with one brush for all those guys for eligibility, makes it for a very difficult decision.   That's how I see it.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT