NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 19, 2012
Erik Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ERIK KARLSSON:   As I said before, I'm just happy to be here.   I just trust the guys who make the decisions.   They've been doing a good job for a number of years now.   No matter what happens, I'm going to have a good time and I'm going to enjoy this and it's going to be a special moment for me.   
There's a lot of guys who deserve to win.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ERIK KARLSSON:   I mean, obviously I'm very happy, as I said before, with everything, how it went.   All the discussions we've had have been good discussions.   It's been fair, no‑back stabbing or anything like that.   I mean, we have a lot of respect for Ottawa's organization.   They've been around for a while.   Bryan, as well, he's done a terrific job with Ottawa as long as he's been here, I think.   
I have full confidence in him and in the organization, as well.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ERIK KARLSSON:   I mean, obviously I knew everybody was going to be here, I was going to meet everyone.   Very happy that we could get it done here while everyone's here.   We can talk about it and be happy.   
I mean, hopefully they're as happy as I am.   I mean, it's going to be a special feeling just talking to them eye‑to‑eye instead of over the phone or anything like that.   
I'm very happy we could get it done here.   
   
 Q.   You didn't see them yet?   
ERIK KARLSSON:   I haven't met Bryan or Gene yet.   I'm going to meet them tonight and I'm sure it's going to be welcoming from both sides.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ERIK KARLSSON:   Yeah, I mean, obviously it's a great feeling and something that I'm very proud of, very grateful to Ottawa about, that they committed for seven years.   I'm going to do everything I can to live up to that for those years.   
Have a pretty good (indiscernible) in Mr. Alfredsson, so it should be good, yeah.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ERIK KARLSSON:   Yeah, I mean, obviously I'm very happy that I'm here right now.   It's not something that I've counted on doing this early in my career.   I'm very grateful to especially Ottawa for letting me be who I am, playing my game, developing into the kind of player I am today.   
It has a lot to do with them, for what they've done to me ever since I came over.   
Going to try to be here a few more times in my career hopefully.   It's just a special feeling seeing everything.   
   
 Q.   You said something about expectations early on.   With the new contract, how do you expect things will change?  
ERIK KARLSSON:   I mean, obviously it's going to be higher expectations from everyone, especially from you guys.   That's the way it is.   It's something that comes with this work, something that I know about.   It's not something that's kind of snuck up on me.   I know how it works.   I'm going to try to play my best every night.   
It's all I can do.   I'm not happy with where I am today.   I'm still trying to be a better hockey player.   I'm becoming a better person as well.   
I know Ottawa has all the capacity to help me be that guy.   It's going to be an exciting thing and something to look forward to.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT