NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: MILWAUKEE
March 20, 2014
Mike Brennan
Darius Gardner
John Schoof
Tony Wroblicky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Wisconsin  – 75
  American  – 35

THE MODERATOR:   Again we'll have opening remarks from Coach Brennan and then questions for the student-athletes from American.   Coach?
COACH MIKE BRENNAN:   Well, obviously Wisconsin is a really good team.   You know, I wish we could have made it a better game today representing ourselves and the league a little better, but Wisconsin has dismantled some really good teams this year.   They're No. 2 seed for a reason.   But I give our guys a ton of credit for the year that they had, and it's tough loss, but these guys had a terrific year.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   Questions for the student-athletes, please, then we'll have questions for the coach later.

Q.   Pee Wee, how are you going to remember this season?
DARIUS GARDNER:   I'm going to remember Tony being our guy -- being the head guy of our team and overall leader.   You know, the transition he made from last year to this year, you know, just everybody and the team chemistry.   That's going to be one thing I take for the rest of my life.

Q.   Tony, what was the thought, you guys get that lead with 11 minutes left in the first half, the nice run, what was the message in the timeout there and what happened after that?
TONY WROBLICKY:   We were excited.   We were playing well.   We were making them take tough shots and we were scoring.   Then, you know, after that we just kind of hit a rut and just extended throughout the rest of the game.

Q.   Tony, you had a great year defensively.   They seemed to come right out after you at the opening tip.   Kaminsky had those couple early baskets.   Were you expecting them to come after you or did this surprise you a little bit?
TONY WROBLICKY:   You have to expect that.   Their best player is going to try to attack you from the opening tip.   He made some good moves and scored, the first three buckets.   After that, you know, I think I did a reasonable job on him.

Q.   John, can you just put into perspective, aside from this defeat, what the season has been like for this team and looking ahead now?
JOHN SCHOOF:   Yeah.   We've had a great, great group of guys from the start.   I love playing with these guys.   We've taken the season one game at a time.   Did very well at the beginning of the year.   We all worked hard.   All of us love playing together.   And as for looking ahead, we're obviously going to miss Tony a lot.   Tony was a huge part of our team offensively, defensively.   He did a lot of things for us. 
So, definitely going to miss Tony, but looking ahead, all the guys coming back, we're ready to pick right back up soon and keep working for next year.
THE MODERATOR:   Other questions for the student-athletes?   Okay.   We'll let you go.   Thank you very much and congratulations on a great season.   Questions for Coach, please.

Q.   Mike, where do you start with your game planning against Wisconsin?   Where do you start, where does it begin, and how do you flow out from there in terms of how you define it?
COACH MIKE BRENNAN:   We concentrated on defense the latter part of the year.   Trying to figure out how to stop them.   You know, we weren't able to do it.   They do a lot of good things really well.   Coach Ryan, he's won 700 games.   There's a reason for it.   They got terrific players.   They played really well today.   Trying to figure out how to score so you're balancing defense and offense.   We just couldn't score today.   Couldn't figure out a way to get clean looks and get -- make open shots.   So, they're a tough team to play, obviously, offensively and defensively.

Q.   How valuable do you think this experience is going forward for the rest of the team?
COACH MIKE BRENNAN:   I mean, they've had a terrific year.   They worked really hard all year.   They learned a lot throughout the year, and, you know, you just keep learning as you move along here. 
So, this is new for all of them, playing a team of this caliber.   It's different when you're playing a team like this in November and December.   They get better, too.   It's a good learning experience for our guys, and I'm sure they'll remember it.   But I'm proud of what they were able to accomplish this year.
THE MODERATOR:   Other questions for Coach?

Q.   Mike, did the Wisconsin crowd play a factor in anything at all?   Obviously a sea of red out there.
COACH MIKE BRENNAN:   No, it was mostly their team (laughter).   Mostly their team.   Obviously that can affect little swings here and there, but, I mean, they're a good team.   They got so many different weapons, they play so well together and take such good care of the ball inside, outside.   They're a really, really good team and they defend.   That's the biggest thing today.   We couldn't score and they stopped us stone cold.

Q.   Were they overplaying your back cuts a little bit or were they just defending it well?
COACH MIKE BRENNAN:   They sort of give up, like pull up jump shots so we got a few early on.   Then we missed a few.   They don't give you any easy shots at all.   So, really have to work for anything that you get, and you're not making shots, a team like that can just completely shut out a team, a team like ours.
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else for Coach?   Thank you, Coach.
COACH MIKE BRENNAN:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT