MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 25, 2015
Chris Mullin
Federico Mussini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ST. JOHN'S - 100      CHAMINADE - 93   
THE MODERATOR: We now welcome St. John's to the media room.  Questions for Federico Mussini?   
 Q.  Federico, can you just talk about the three-point shooting today?  You guys were on fire especially early.  Did you see something that you might -- knowing that you might be able to do that against Chaminade?  
FEDERICO MUSSINI: I know that I have to shoot when I'm open, and I have confidence in my shooting.  And everybody on the team knows when they are open, they are to shoot.  So just a lot of confidence.  Sometimes the shot doesn't go in, but we have to keep shooting and just believe in ourselves and keep going like that.   
 Q.  How big is this win after a couple losses here?  How big is it to go home off of this win?  
FEDERICO MUSSINI: It's very important.  It's really firm between 3-3, and 4-2.  We had two losses against two really big teams, but we improved every day since we got here, so that's the important thing.  We need to improve every day like we are doing and we're going to do good, I think.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Mullin.   
 Q.  Coach, how important is getting today's win after the two losses here and as you go on and go home?  
COACH MULLIN: Yeah, I mean, obviously a win makes the long flight home a little more bearable and enjoyable, but probably more important to be able to bounce back.  It's important to be able to respond to adversity, and I think after the first night we took a step on responding and tonight we got rewarded for that.   
I've got to give a lot of credit to Chaminade.  They're a very skilled team.  They played beautifully together.  So it's a really nice style that they play.  They're always in the game because they can shoot the ball so well.  I was very impressed, not only the way they played, but their demeanor.   
 Q.  Coach, were you comfortable with it, getting into that kind of a shootout against them?  
COACH MULLIN: I would love to play that way.  With six guys, probably not.  But I'm all into sharing the ball and body moving and ball moving and playing free.  Motion, I think that's the beautiful way to play.  Until we get more bodies, we've got to be somewhat diligent on how we do things.  But long-term, yeah, I think that's the way to play basketball.   
 Q.  Coach, speaking of more bodies, how big is the news today that Yakwe is eligible next Tuesday?  
COACH MULLIN: Great news.  He's a beautiful kid, and I'm happy for him.  It's something that he's very grateful for everything that he gets.  He works hard.  He's a great teammate and very excited about that.   
 Q.  How do you sum up this trip for you early on in this first season for you as a college coach?  What have you learned or taken away from it?  
COACH MULLIN: I think it's good for the guys to be together as far as bonding goes and getting to know each other, because we have a whole new team.  That's worked out well.   
Then playing against really high level talent, big bodies, athletic was good for our guys, so every experience for us is going to be mocked up into something that's going to help us build.  Obviously, when you win, it's more enjoyable.  But when you talk losses, you're going to look back on them, and you might learn more from them, actually.  They just hurt more.   
So with the young team, and we're aware, rebuilding each and every day is going to be valuable, just some are more enjoyable.   
 Q.  This might be the last chance to rock the shorts for the year.  Just talk about the Maui experience and being able to play these games?  
COACH MULLIN: I love Hawaii.  I've been here so many times.  We had training camp a bunch in Honolulu, and I've been over here several times.  Yeah, when I'm done, I'll be in shorts and flip-flops for sure, each and every day.  I might break them out at the Garden, you never know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT