MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 23, 2015
Chris Mullin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Vanderbilt 92   St. John's 55
Q. I was just wondering, with a game like this, where do you go from here as a player?
DURAND JOHNSON: You know, we've just got to move on.  It was a tough loss.  Didn't go the way we wanted.  But we've got to bounce back tomorrow and come out and compete and we've got to move forward.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Mullin?
Q. Chris, I know you could have never imagined a game like this, but how do you come back?  What do you tell the guys after the game?  How do you bounce back from something like this?
COACH MULLIN: Well, we have to learn from it.  We'll look at some film tonight.  You know, their size, obviously, was a big factor.  We've been preaching taking care of the ball.  Actually, we had eight turnovers, and that is the best we've taken care of the ball.  In our first three games, we've been down 10 to 15 field goal attempts.
So tonight we were right there, 62 shots to 60.  But I thought their length, trying to finish above their length was a problem.  For a lot of these guys, their size, that's the first time they saw that.
But as far as what do we do?  We come back tomorrow and play hard.  I thought a little bit on missed shots, shooting 30% had an impact on our effort, which hadn't up until now.  So we have to bounce back tomorrow, compete, and move on.  I think we'll get together tonight and talk about it.  But to me, it's not what happens, it's how you react to it.  So we all go through different things, and we lost the game, so we'll move on.  And how we come back tomorrow is more important than what just happened.  What happened is over now.  How we react on to it is what we're going to focus on.
Q. Coach, they went on a 9-0 run to start the game.  Did you think their defensive intensity threw off your team's offense in any way?
COACH MULLIN: I think their length is what bothered us.  I thought -- first of all, they're a really good team.  They're going to be a team to reckon with, I think, late.  You'll be hearing from them a lot.  They've got shooters.  They play well together, they unselfish, they move it.  With that size and length, they can protect the rim, so they're a really, really good team.
Well-coached, Kevin's a great coach.  Their offense -- our defense wasn't as good as it's been, but they're the best team we've played.  So to try to compare would not be appropriate.  But, again, for us to have 60 shots and them have 62 and have eight turnovers, looking at the quality -- we got some decent looks, we just didn't finish them.  So I don't think there is much more to that.  Team shoots 53%, you shoot 30%, you're going to lose.
Q. For you as a coach in this tournament, what are you learning in this tournament?  I know this is just one game.
COACH MULLIN: Besides the outcome, it's going to be a learning experience across the board in each and every game we play.  Then quite frankly for us, we want to get out of here and not have anyone else get hurt.  We have enough guys sitting in street clothes.  So managing our effort and then managing physically how we approach the game.
But for a team like ours that's all brand-new, it doesn't matter if we're in Maui.  Every experience is going to be a learning experience for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT