BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2017
Chris Mullin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Villanova - 108, St. John's - 67
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach.
Q. Chris, to have to play a game so fast after the last one, to play a team like Villanova, were you guys just behind the eight ball from the start?
COACH MULLIN: Quick turnaround, but that had nothing to do with it.  Villanova is one of the best teams in the country.  So give all credit to them.
And we welcome that.  That was a good position to be in, to be able to play in today's game.  So no regrets.
Q. Coach, despite what the win/loss record may show, there was some substantial progress made from how you faired in your first year of coaching.  What are some of the takeaways you'll carry with you when you eventually embark into year three?
COACH MULLIN: Yeah, improvement; progression, individually and collectively.  And lots to look forward to.
Q. What do you think has to happen next year to take the next step?  You obviously add two very good players in Clark and Simon, but are there certain areas you guys need to get better in to make the challenge to be a tournament team?
COACH MULLIN: I think defensively we need to improve.  I do think a lot of that will come with strength and maturity.  I think a lot of people, me included, players improve a lot in the offseason.  That's the best time to do it.
But I also think probably, more so in the college game, like, when they're in summer school and they're around each other.  It's a really good time to develop team chemistry.  And so I think having more guys playing with each other, working out together in the summertime will be another part of something we haven't had.
And you look at the really, really good teams, Villanova being one of them, they've got experience.  Game experience.  They've won and lost together, and they've spent summers together.
Q. Coach, when you first got the job at St. John's you said you were going to try to bring more home-grown talent, like Shamorie Ponds being one of them, a building block.  How much interest has there been for the players that want to come and compete and play at St. John's?
COACH MULLIN: Interest is one thing and getting to be on the team is another.  That's always going to be a focal point.  And we'll see how that materializes.
Q. Villanova played the first half without committing a foul.  A, have you ever seen that, and what does that say about their experience to defend without committing a foul?
COACH MULLIN: It's pretty good defense.
Q. In looking back as a seasoned coach including last night, anything either stand out as a highlight, game or performance, or anything that the team improved in from the start of the season to today?
COACH MULLIN: I'd probably say last night was the highlight.  For this group of kids to get the first tournament win in five or six years, whatever it was, but also to prove to themselves and to get on that big stage.
And I think before last night, we probably had like 84 practices.  So after all the film sessions and practices and pep talks, halftime talks and all the stuff that goes on, there's nothing better than those guys going out and proving to themselves that they can perform on that stage.  And so I thought last night was probably something they'll remember and take into the offseason and use it as a positive.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT