NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 27, 2007
Dee Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What do you think about the fact that two of you guys played college ball and had that kind of experience?  How does that transfer over into? 
 DEE BROWN:  All we've got to do is win.  It is all about winning.  It is not about what you score, what you do, about the team, it is about winning.  If you've got the attitude, it is great fun.  Having fun and winning is contagious. 

 Q.  Even being young in the NBA, it transfers? 
 DEE BROWN:  I'm not a rookie anymore, to be honest with you.  105, 106 games into the season, it is all about winning.  My blood is all I think about.  We just go out there and want to win. 

 Q.  How has Deron changed? 
 DEE BROWN:  His attitude, it is all about the confidence and the swagger.  I think he is one of the best of the point guards in the NBA.  I can say that because of the way he plays.  I don't know, everything he does out there for the team.  To be 22 years old and to have guys like Boozer, and Coach Sloan is an old-school guy, so everyone has confidence in him at the age of 22 and to lead his team to the Western Conference Finals is huge for him. 
 It is only going to make him a better person and a better dad, a better player.  Just go out there and play well. 

 Q.  Where did his swagger come from?  How did it develop? 
 DEE BROWN:  I think coming up, even in college he talked about it. He won the McDonald's All-American High School game.  He was one of the best then.  In college, he was under the radar, but we knew he was one of the best out there.  We just tell him he is one of the best.  He always knew.  He always had that humbleness about it, but also one of the best in his mind. 
 It is just great to watch.  Great to see him just be the player he is. 

 Q.  Has he been motivated by he was in the McDonald All-American, he wasn't taken higher? 
 DEE BROWN:  That's where all his swagger came from.  He played well.  He wanted his teams to be the best.  He only wants to compete against -- I don't want to say destroy, but outplay them.  That right there, a lot of guys don't have that every night.  Every day you want to play against the best.  You want to compete.  Every day he wants to play hard. 

 Q.  All this talk all week about Tony Parker. 
 DEE BROWN:  Tony is one of my favorite players.  He is my friend, too.  They friends, too.  Any time you put in front of him, no matter what name you put in front of him, he feels he deserves the respect, too. 
 I respect that.  I mean, that's my best friend and I feel like he is one of the best and he should feel that way.  You name other guys, he doesn't see why they are -- quite understand why they get more publicity than him.  He cares about his team.  He is a true point guard.  It is hard to find a true point guard nowadays that wants to shoot and get 20 assists.  It is hard to find one of them guys. 
 He is one of them guys.  And Tony Parker is one of my favorite guys, too.  Great guy, great player.  One of my favorites. 

 Q.  How did that transfer, that chip on his shoulder, with Deron last night? 
 DEE BROWN:  All series, they are really good friends.  Both of them like to compete.  And you can't find two guys like that, guys that's friends like that.  When they get on the court, we are going at it.  Let's go ahead -- we want to win.  We want to see who the best point guard is, and it is hard to find. 
 We are playing against Baron Davis, a great point guard that Deron went against.  I mean, it has been a challenge this year and he always steps up to the challenge. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT