ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2018
Katie Meier
Keyanna Harris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Miami 68, Wake Forest 60   
KATIE MEIER: It was a battle as we expected.  Trying to put a game plan together against Wake Forest, the way that they have been playing, is frightening.  You know, they are very talented.  They are smart.  We kept trying to just break their rhythm and they got in a rhythm there.   
You know, they got really scary.  I think the transition kick outs that they were hitting and then their offensive rebounding, it's a credit to them.  I mean, they played their guts out.  They are really, really good.   
I think my upperclassmen, really just -- Kiki, Mason, Erykah just took care of business for us.  But Kiki had a really really special night.  I mean, the freshmen hit some big shots, but the reason we won is that the upperclassmen with the experience with the veteran's mentality; that we never got rattled when they took the lead, and you know, they made the big plays for us.   
 Q.  You mentioned Wake Forest being a scary team.  What were you trying to do in the second quarter, third quarter and fourth quarters while they were whittling it down and whittling it down?  
KATIE MEIER: Well, you know, Penna is somebody that's a pick-and-pop, but then she was sliding in the post and then that really kind of -- with Sharp playing the way she's been playing and we had our eye on Sharp.  I mean, she's phenomenal.  That was a well-fought -- the double-double, she was everywhere.  She was rebounding, so efficient, and then you have Penna, and we were just trying to figure out what we're going to do.   
But Udoh with the rebounding with the fourth quarter, she put on a show.  And we have a decent defensive rebounding team.  I mean, we're decent, but we couldn't stop that kid.  We just couldn't keep her off the glass.   
 Q.  You have a freshman with the go-ahead shot, how nervous were you or did you have confidence?  
KEYANNA HARRIS: That's Endia's shot.  We were confident.  That's her shot.  (Smiling)   
KATIE MEIER: Yeah, she's got a nice rhythm in her pull-up.  We were getting some high-lows, and so we figured they were going to kind of gap and clog it up.  So we went to a flow call that we would get and end.  It was a read for her, and her going left and a pull-up.  That's her money shot.  She said it felt "pretty."  That's what she told me:  "It felt real pretty, Coach."   
 Q.  Can you just talk about, eight assists, career-high, what were you seeing out there, 13 points, you missed one free throw.  What was working for you tonight because you had probably one of the best games of your career tonight.  
KEYANNA HARRIS: With the assist, I was just thinking, push, tempo, and just to keep my eyes open, and I know when I'm pushing tempo, Mason going to come through for the jump balls.  Free throws, free throw ladder.   
 Q.  Third straight year playing Florida State, you've beat them the first two times.  How do you do it again?  
KATIE MEIER: Well, you know, that's what I said to TV.  If we don't put a little bit more energy to the defensive glass, it will get away from us.  You can strategize all you want to, but they are just ferocious to the glass.  They always are and the times that we've beaten them, we've neutralized that.  I wouldn't say we have ever dominated them on the glass, but it hasn't been the obvious factor.  We have to neutralize it mand I think we can play better than we played tonight.   
We can play better than we played tonight in terms of our turnovers were really high for no reason, really.  We were just -- our timing was a little bit off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT