ROLAND GARROS
October 2, 2020
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  I. SWIATEK/E. Bouchard
 6-3, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. A tough match today.  Do you want to give your thoughts just on how it went for you?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I felt like I played a very good opponent.  She was putting pressure on me from the beginning.  So I tried to counter that and tried to put pressure back, but I was missing my shots by small margins and making some mistakes I haven't really made in recent matches.  So I just definitely felt a little off today.
 Q. In the first set your opponent ended up hitting 20 winners.  I guess she was playing a very aggressive game style?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I felt that.  I mean, I felt the pressure from her, and that's what good players are going to do.  And that's what I try to do on the court as well but today she did that better than me.
 Q. I wanted to know, what are your plans from here on out after the French?  Do you have anything scheduled or taking some time off?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Honestly, I really don't know what the plan is right now.  I do know I'm going to take a little bit of time off, a couple days off.  So that's all that I have on the horizon for now.
 Q. On that point, it's obviously very difficult because there are very few opportunities to play at the moment.  Do you find that particularly frustrating because you've obviously had a good few weeks, and if tournaments were going on you would presumably have a good chance to improve your ranking?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, so what's the question, sorry?
 Q. Is it frustrating for you?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I mean, as they say:  It is what it is.  I can't control the opportunities or the tournaments or COVID.  So I'm just ready for whatever opportunity is presented to me.
 And I feel like I've done well since coming back from the break to try to give myself my best chance for those opportunities.  And we'll see what comes going forward.  But I'll just be ready and we'll see what happens.
 Q. Given the way you've played recent weeks do you very much believe that you can get back to where you were at one stage?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, of course I do.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT