ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 9, 2012
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/E. Bouchard
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Li Na really was putting the pressure on, a lot of power.   What can you do?   What do you have to change in your approach to be able to get to those balls, given the top 10 players tend to be able to have that ability to force the pressure?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think it was key for me to try to get control before her when I was able to dictate with my serve or the first ball, like the return.   I did well.   But then when she got, you know, control of the point, at the beginning of the point she was pretty dominant on that.   So I think I was just trying to be as aggressive as I could from the start.  
On the defense it's pretty tough.   She does put a lot of pressure, and she won't miss those easy balls, so it's definitely tough.  
   
 Q.   You're obviously very aggressive when you play.   Do you foresee adding any other wrinkles to your game going forward, given...   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Adding any what?   
   
 Q.   Adding any aspects to your game?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I definitely want to be aggressive and come to the net more if I can.   I think that's been helping me a lot recently.   You know, when I have an easy ball, I'm trying to finish it off at the net because I think that's the way I should play.  
   
 Q.   You had a couple easy balls at the net, some overheads.   Was that just nerves?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It might have been.   
   
 Q.   The conditions?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah.   She also, I mean, gets that extra ball back.   Not all players wouldn't have gotten that extra one back.   It's definitely tough to put away the points, but, yeah, I should have made those.  
   
 Q.   I just wonder how you assess your overall performance this week.   You have gone one round farther than last year.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah.   I mean, there is a positive in that.   Disappointing I didn't go another round, as well.   I have learned a lot this week, and I just want to keep playing players of this level, and, you know, that's how I'm going to move forward.  
   
 Q.   Following up on your schedule, is there a chance of you getting a wildcard or qualifying for the US Open?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I'm not sure about that.   The plan right now is Dallas unless that would happen.   I don't know at this point.  
   
 Q.   How were you able to deal with the rain delay not knowing when your game was going to start?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's not the best thing, but it's the same for both players.   We lie on the couch and listen to music and wait and wait and wait.   I was happy to play tonight, and, you know, there was still a decent amount of people in the crowd.   That was fun.   You know, it's just one of those things you have to deal with.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   What was the difference between yesterday's match and today's match?   A different caliber?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It was another level, for sure.   Li Na plays deep and she hits hard, and she puts a lot of pressure on you, so it was difficult.   
But I had my chances.   I played well but not all the time, but I know I will learn a lot, thanks to that match.  
   
 Q.   It was not the scenario you had anticipated, but can you give us your assessment of this Rogers Cup?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It was a good week.   I am very happy that I was able to pull out yesterday with playing three sets.   Today my level was very close to the top 11 in the world, and still I want to do even better.   But I had some break points.  
   
 Q.   Of course you lost, but this shows that the doors are open for you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yes, I'm close to that level.   I will play more and more against that kind of players.   I hope in the future I will win against them.  
   
 Q.   What did your coach tell you in between the two sets?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   He told me to try to serve harder and to be more aggressive, and it worked out pretty well to be aggressive from the beginning of the point.  
   
 Q.   What did you do different in those break points?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Twice I had an easy ball that I missed, and that's disappointing.   But for the others she played well.   This is typical from the best players in the world.   They always play well on important points.   
   
 Q.   What will be the program now?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I'm playing Dallas in a week, and then I will play the US Open in juniors.   That will not be the same caliber, but it will be another type of pressure.   Then I will go to Asia, and I hope I will play those players again and be able to improve.  
   
 Q.   Can you compare the player you were last year with the player you are this year?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I'm a lot better.   I have better weapons like my serve now, and also mentally I'm a lot stronger, like I was able to win that match yesterday.   So I improved, but there is still a lot to be improved, so this is what I'm going to do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT