ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2012
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/S. Peer
  3‑6, 6‑2, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What did you like best about your victory in singles on center court today?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I loved the atmosphere.   The crowd reaction was, you know, insane.   It was really cool.  
I'm proud of myself for the way I played and fought, especially in the third set.   I was getting tired, and, I mean, she was, too, of course.   But, you know, I stayed in there, and I'm happy that I was able to continue playing the way I wanted to play and I pulled it out.  
   
 Q.   You even have a tougher match rankings‑wise against Li Na.   Look ahead for us.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I'm really excited.   She'll be the highest‑ranked player I have ever played.   She won a Grand Slam, so she's really obviously a very, very good player, and I'm just looking forward to playing tomorrow night here in front of the court who will hopefully support me again.   I will try to play my best.  
   
 Q.   You don't seem to be intimidated by any of this.   I think that surprises all of us.   I mean, that's the first big‑time match on a big tour.   It's a big moment.   There you are.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I mean, I was so happy after I won.   I don't know.   It was a great feeling, and I just want to keep having these matches like this and, you know, emotions like this after I win.  
Yeah, I'll get better with that.  
   
 Q.   Is it my impression the last couple of months that you have started playing a little more aggressively?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think so.   I think playing on the grass really forced me to do that.   That worked really well on the grass, and now I'm trying to take it to hard court as well.  
I finished a few points off today at the net, which was pretty good.   That's what I'm trying to do, and I think it's working out well so far.  
   
 Q.   You seemed to have a lot of confidence in your net game.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, yeah.   Yeah, when I get to the net, I mean, if it's off a good ball I'm pretty confident.   You know, I have won a few doubles tournaments, as well, so practicing doubles I think helps my net game in singles.  
   
 Q.   You're obviously full of potential and promise now.   We're starting to see results.   Do you think like there is more pressure or expectations for you to fulfill that potential?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Probably.   I don't really listen or I don't really listen to the outside pressure.   I put enough pressure on myself.   That's the only pressure I care about, really.  
I'm always trying to be the best I can be, so, you know, people can say whatever they want to say, but I try to be myself.  
   
 Q.   I just wondered, what do you think of what you have done this summer, winning all these tournaments, winning Junior Wimbledon, you know, winning some matches on the WTA.   What's your feeling about it?   Is it something you thought you could do all along, or have you surprised yourself?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   For sure.   I always believed in myself, and it's great to have accomplished them but it's not a surprise to me.  
I know I have the level to do that and more.   It just takes a lot of hard work.   That's what I'm going to do.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how you were able to not let the pressure get to you in that third set and really stay even‑keeled throughout it?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I was just really focusing on keeping my serve.   We kind of held at the beginning of the match all the way through, and when I got broken, I mean, just one point at a time really, still tried to play my game.   The crowd support really kept me energized.   They helped me in the end.  
   
 Q.   How can you see how different the crowd was?   I know you said when you were playing in Wimbledon it was biggest crowd you've seen.   How different was it playing at home?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   They were really, really supporting me.   When she would double‑fault, they would start clapping.   When she missed her first serve, people would clap.   
It was a little bit ‑‑they were really loud, too.   Sometimes it was hurting my ears they were clapping so loud.   It's a really cool experience having that.   I don't get that at many tournaments.   When I have it at home, I try to use it to my advantage, and I think I did today.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you, did Shahar Peer play any differently than what you expected going into the match?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   No.   I think I had good insight into her game, and she played pretty steady, and I think she served pretty well, actually.   It was definitely what I expected, and I played the right way I think to beat her.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   After three hours of tennis like this, can you talk about your performance with Aleks?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Obviously we were tired, but our opponents are one of the best doubles players.   They are doubles specialists, and they were better than we were today.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to feel tired against Li Na tomorrow?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   No.   I will sleep tonight and I will feel all right for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You were obviously tired, both of you, at the end of that match but you were able to raise your level and win it.   Does this boost your confidence, beating a top 50 player?   It's the best‑ranked player you have beat.  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yes, it's good for my confidence.   We were both very tired at the end of the match, but I was able to go and get those points at 5‑All in the third and it went well.   
   
 Q.   At 5‑All you had a break point against you, and you stayed calm and collected and you were able to keep focusing.   How did you do that?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, this is exactly the moment I was talking about.   I went to get that point being aggressive.   I know that I have to play like this if I want to win those matches, and it's good that I thought of doing that at 5‑All.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow is going to be an even more difficult match against a top‑10 player.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I will go into that match without any pressure.   I know I can do well, and if I play my best tennis, I have a chance to win.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the crowd today?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's great to play at home because the crowd gives you so much support.   I was never down in that match, and they gave me a lot of energy by supporting me a lot.  
   
 Q.   Looking back on that match, what pleased you most?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   After losing the first set, I was able to start the second set very strongly, and also when I was down in the third set, down a break in the third set, I had the right attitude.  
   
 Q.   It's been a wonderful summer for you.   How do you explain this?   Is it because you have more experience now or because you changed something in your practice?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I have been working very hard on tennis during the past five years, and all the many hours of practice and all the matches I have played are paying off now.  
I feel better when I play matches, and my game is to play aggressive.   This is what I do.   Against the top players, every time I play a match, it gives me more experience.   I know I can still improve.  
   
 Q.   How do you rank this victory today?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I believe it's the best one, because she's the better‑ranked player I have beat, and also playing at home was very special.   The crowd was very helpful.  
   
 Q.   Several times you missed your toss when serving.   Was it because of the wind or was it a technical problem?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Maybe the wind, but I like to have "the" perfect toss, so when it's not perfect, I do it again because I know that can make a difference between a good and a bad serve.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT