ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 9, 2011
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. PETKOVIC/E. Bouchard
  6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How was your first experience of the Rogers Cup, and how nervous were you?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD: It was a good experience. I wasn't nervous at all, actually. It was a bit long before the match. There was a rain delay, but I didn't, you know, get nervous or anything.
 When I went out on the court, I was just really excited to play. I think, you know, I have learned a lot from this match, so it's good for the future. 

 Q. When you say you learned a lot, can you be more specific, some of the things you feel you can take from this match moving forward?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah. Well, she's, you know, 10 in the world, so I know I played where I want to go really and I know the level where they're at, so I'm striving to get there. I think I was a little bit up and down today in my game, so if I'm more at a constant level playing like my game more constantly, I think that will be better in future matches. 

 Q. What was your plan going into today's match?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I always try to play aggressive. That's my game style. I like to control the point with my serve. But I know she kind of likes to play, likes to control the point, as well, and I was ready for that. 
 You know, when we had some really close games, it was a really tough battle of trying to control points, so that's what I think I was trying to do for sure.

 Q. I wanted to ask you, one of the interesting things I imagine in this experience as you play someone like Petkovic is that probably in your mind are you wondering whether you want tennis basically to further your education as an NCAA scholarship, which I'm pretty sure you've touted to be, or are your goals right now, after playing, do you say to yourself, Maybe I could be one of the top WTA players one day, so let me turn pro when I could? Which route do you prefer to take for yourself?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I've already turned pro, so that's my decision. I don't really have the option of getting a scholarship to a university. So that's my goal. That's what I want to do. 
 It's a long process, for sure, but I'm gonna work hard like every day and try to get there. 

 Q. Do you feel any pressure playing in front of the home fans?
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD: No. I love it, actually. The fans, you know, every point I won they were behind me and it was great.
 I wish I could, you know, play more at home, but every match that I play here I really appreciate it. I think it, you know, helps.
 But I don't feel pressure. I just really enjoy it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT