ROGERS CUP
August 6, 2018
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOUCHARD-STEPHENS/Dabrowski-Xu   
6-4, 4-6, 10-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  In terms of getting a win today in the doubles portion, how much does that help in terms of confidence moving ahead to the singles portion tomorrow?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I feel like you guys just keep raising and raising the expectations.   
Look, it's a win.  It's a doubles match.  It was great to play a match instead of practice today.  That's why I played doubles.   
But tomorrow's another day.  I'm going to just have to fight and we'll see what happens.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  When you play doubles during your tournaments, is it because you want to be better in doubles or is it just because you don't want to stop playing, you want to get as many matches as possible?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: The reason for playing doubles here is to be able to play more matches.  It was an excellent thing to be able to play that match today.  It's a lot better than a normal practice.   
I believe doubles are very good for that.  They help you improve your volleys and returns.  It can also help your singles game.   
 Q.  Another question about doubles.  Sloane and you are friends outside of the court also.  You've know each other for a long time together.  When you started playing doubles, did you get along well immediately?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yes, absolutely.  She asked me to play.  It was a bit random.  I said yes.  As soon as we played the first match, we had a lot of fun on the court.  We were laughing a lot.  It was really fun.   
Of course, we are trying to play our best.  We are very relaxed.  This helps both of us.  It helps our tennis.   
 Q.  You've known each other for a very long time.  How can you explain that she has so many good results lately?  Why now?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I've known her since I was 11 or 12, half of my life.  She always had a lot of talent.  She always had the potential of having the results she had recently.  I was sure it would happen someday because she has a big game and she's so powerful.  I knew, even when we were young, she would become one of the top players in the world.   
 Q.  You said you wanted to play doubles to play more matches.  Is it an advantage for tomorrow?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: It's really to play more matches.  I use that as a practice session to improve my shots and to play under pressure.   
 Q.  In Montreal you always have a lot of pressure.  It's very special for you to play here.  Playing a doubles match before starting the singles, does that help relieve of a bit of pressure and stress?  Did it help you today for tomorrow?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: It doesn't take away the pressure, but it's a good preparation.   
 Q.  We heard you say you didn't have many friends on the tour.  Is Sloane an exception?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yes, she's a good friend.  In general I don't have many friends on the tour, but there are a couple of girls that I am seeing outside of the courts.  Not too much, but a little bit.   
 Q.  Does this victory help you mentally?  Do you feel more confident for your next match?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, winning a match, any kind of match, is an important victory.  Each victory gives you more confidence.   
 Q.  The crowd welcomed you warmly today.  Do you believe the crowd can be a help for you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yes, I like to have a lot of support.  I know the fans here will be there for me.  This can help me in a match, of course.   
 Q.  We heard that your opponent for tomorrow had a problem with her arm.  Do you believe this can be an advantage for you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Maybe.  There might be things in her situation that might help.  But everyone has something.  I think it will come down to the one who fights the hardest on the court.  I'm not going to expect anything tomorrow.  I will just focus on my own game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT