THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 3, 2018
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. BOUCHARD/G. Taylor
6-0, 4-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Some people think it's bad to win the first set 6-Love because you have nowhere to go but down.  Did that play a little bit of a role in the second set?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think it's great to win the first set 6-Love.
Q. How do you feel overall about your game today?  What did you like the most?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think I played almost a perfect set of tennis in the first set and then it got tricky.  I think she, you know, started going for it more, and I think I let her dictate play too much.
Q. Third set?  You enjoyed the third set, I guess, because you already made some good shots?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I enjoyed the whole match, but in the third I definitely changed compared to the second and tried to go back to my game, you know, and it worked much better.
Q. Are you taking this very much a match at a time, or do you allow yourself when you come to Wimbledon to dream of what might be?  You played a final here.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Definitely one match at a time.  Every opponent is super tough, so no point looking ahead (smiling).
Q. You have had a rough stretch for a while.  This is four wins in a row for you now.  Are you feeling things coming together?  Does this feel like positive progress being made here?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I definitely think I have improved over the past couple months.  I wasn't able to play tournaments for a little bit, which was super frustrating, but it almost motivated me more as soon as I came back.  I feel good right now, and I want to just keep improving.
Q. What do you think Robert Lansdorp has brought to your game?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think he's helped me.  I think he's a great coach.  A lot of experience.  So I really trust him, you know, whatever he tells me.
Q. He said you're like the student he thought he should have had when you were younger because of the way you played.  Do you think about that, or what do you think of that?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I think that's a compliment.  You know, we have worked on my game, and, you know, he believes in me.  I love having him around (smiling).
Q. He's known as being a really good groundstrokes technician.  Has he made significant adjustments to your shots so far?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I don't think my shots needed significant adjustment, but we have definitely worked on every shot in tennis, improving little things here and there.
Q. Obviously the reference point for you will always be 2014 which was a super, super year and breakout year.  Here we are four years on.  How do you look back on that period and what do you think is possible going forward?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I always just think back of the great achievements and it just makes me happy, you know, knowing I achieved the great things that I did.
Q. I'm doing a story on former Wimbledon junior champs.  Nine or ten of you in action today.  How much do you think back to that achievement?  Looking back so far in this first six or so years of your career, how much does that junior title, where does that rank in things of your accomplishments from your own perspective?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I have always said winning the Junior Wimbledon title was my best accomplishment in my career.  I feel like immediately it really helped me transition to the pros.  It gave me so much confidence.  I shot up in the pro rankings soon after that.
And having played all the Grand Slams, you know, on-site, seeing the big stars in the second week I think helped me so much in terms of experience, in terms of comfort level coming back years later playing the professional event.  So for me the juniors, like, helped me so much.
Q. I talked to some players who said getting that title at a young age can be a burden.  People expect big things from you right away.  I guess you never really had it work out for you that way?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I won it at an old age (smiling).  So for me, yeah, that was my last chance to win it.
Q. It made it easier winning it at 18 or make it more positive?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think just playing juniors until I was 18 really helped me, because I had to deal with so much pressure of playing 14-year-olds.  I feel like some girls or guys, you know, try to go so quickly to the pros that they kind of skip a step.
So I really kind of fully went through the juniors and I did every single step.  I think that gave me this foundation that when I went to pros, that's why I did so well.
Q. Through these struggles of the last two years, what are some of the things you have learned about yourself?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I have learned that life is great.  Being Genie is great.  Tennis is so fun, and I'm lucky to do it as my job.
Q. Has it always stayed fun?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah.  Obviously not getting the results is tough, but, you know, I have found -- you know, I have learned so much.  I have found other things that even when it wasn't going well, to still enjoy it, to enjoy things off the court.  You know, it is what it is.
Q. Ashleigh Barty in the next round.  What do you know about her and how do you feel about that match?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think she's playing great.  I think she loves grass.  I really want to raise my level and try and play my best tennis against her and see what happens.
Q. She's another Junior Wimbledon champ.  Is there like a sort of sisterhood among you folks?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: No.
Q. Do you know who the other junior champions in the room are?  Would you be able to name who they are?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: No.
Q. Did you notice that the crowd was really on your side?  I mean, that's nice, I guess.  I felt that the crowd was really cheering for you.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I felt great support.  I saw a lot of Canadian flags.  I got mobbed after the match, pretty much.  But it's a mob of love, so I liked it.
Q. What's the structure of your team right now?  How many people are working with you and traveling with you at the tournament?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Here this week with me I have Robert and Scott, my trainer.
Q. The ambition of a professional tennis player is to come to these tournaments and win.  Andy Murray was saying that, and that's why he didn't compete here.  Are you here to win?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm here to do the best I can, so every day, every match, just one match at a time, as well as I can play, as well as I can fight.  I will let the chips fall where they may.
Q. In terms of tougher times you have had, and I think I asked a similar question in Charleston, do you have a sense of what's been going on and what needs fixing, or are you updating that answer from then?  Do you have more sense of what's happening now, what's working, what you're repairing?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I feel a lot more comfortable on the court.  I feel a little bit more like myself.  You know, I have always deep down had the belief, and it's about, in the tough moments of the match, keeping that belief.  I have that more and more now.  Just trying to keep progressing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT