U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2017
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. RODINA/E. Bouchard   
7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  6-5 in the first set, up to then, looked good.  What happened after that?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I don't really know, to be honest.  It's one of those matches you kind of want to forget about.  I know obviously the unforced error count was a bit too high, especially at the end of that first set.   
Yeah, I just didn't really know what to do out there.   
 Q.  Coming in, you played not badly against Radwanska and not badly against Vekic.  You must have been reasonably confident you would play at a good level in this match?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, you know, my confidence is not high at all at this point in time, and I definitely -- yeah, I definitely had question marks about what my level would be like coming out today.   
 Q.  Can you tell us where you are?  Are you still in the legal proceedings of the US Open or is that over?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, we're still in the process.   
 Q.  Any sign of a conclusion to it?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I don't know (smiling).  I don't know at this point.   
 Q.  Does that make it hard for you to come here and concentrate on this process of playing tennis?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm able to concentrate on the tennis when I'm here, but, I mean, I definitely have bad memories from here two years ago.   
 Q.  I know you have been a little critical of Maria Sharapova.  What were your thoughts on her getting a wildcard here and her actually beating a second seed?  What are your thoughts about her being here?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I mean, my thoughts on that are already very public, so...   
 Q.  What can you say about her game, just the way the match sort of evolved?  Was there much beyond the fact she was just pretty consistent?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, she was pretty consistent, hit a bit of a higher, slower ball, stood far back so was able to kind of get a lot of balls.  I mean, obviously in looking back, I'll be able to see a lot of things I could have done better, but, you know, because I didn't kind of perform well, she was there to take it.   
 Q.  The sun, how much of a factor was that for you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I found it quite tricky.  Obviously it's the same for both, so not complaining, but it's tough.   
 Q.  Were you surprised to be on that court, both of you unseeded here?  I was surprised to see you there.  Were you surprised to see yourself there?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I was surprised, yeah, but it's always an amazing opportunity to play on the biggest tennis court in the world.   
 Q.  Is Quebec City still in the plans?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT