ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. SEVASTOVA/E. Bouchard
6-3, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. What worked for you today and how are you feeling physically?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I mean, I really didn't feel like I was moving well.  Really not, like, near 100%.  And that affected my whole game and allowed her to really control the ball.  And so I had a lot of trouble with that.
Q. Obviously, that's connected to the ankle, and is it different from the last match?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I mean, I've been trying my best to even play this tournament, and I'm happy I won one match.  But yesterday, like, I could barely practice.  So just tried to play because it's a slam, but it's something I need to take time right now to rehab.
Q. How much did you believe, when you had a point to get back to 3-All in the first set, did you have any feeling that you could maybe get things going at that point?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I mean, I felt right there.  And, I mean, didn't feel like myself too much on the court, but I had little chances here and there at the beginning of the first.
But, you know, not great movement, a few too many unforced errors.  And her, obviously, mixing it up and making it even more difficult for me I think was, in the end, what happened.
Q. How frustrating were the drop shots?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Very frustrating.
Q. Were you a bit surprised your first-round opponent didn't hit any?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I don't know.  But, obviously, I think this is a part of my opponent from today, I think that's a normal part of her game regardless of my movement.  So I already knew to be ready for that, but I really had trouble getting up to them.
Q. You've had bad luck in the past with injuries and incidents happening and stuff like that.  Are you able to put them in a certain perspective now and not get too down on yourself or too upset about it and deal with it in a different way maybe?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, of course I need to put things in perspective, but it also is bad luck, you know, having an injury like this a week before a Slam.  So it's still pretty disappointing.
Q. Had you ever had ankle problems before?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I have sprained each one once or twice.  I mean, this is going way back into juniors.  But nothing, you know, really bad.  Nothing like this.
Q. A little strange before the match when you were about four or five minutes late.  How did that happen?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, there was a retirement before.  So, I mean, I had to do my whole routine.  I had to get my ankle taped.  I can't just do everything in ten minutes.
Q. Just usually the two players walk out together.  I was just surprised that you didn't come out together.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: She ran ahead of me.  I don't know.
Q. Do you have any idea what's ahead after this?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, rehab.  Rehab, rehab.  And just look forward and get ready for Mallorca.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT