ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2017
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. BOUCHARD/R. Ozaki
2-6, 6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Would it be fair to say that the difference between dialed out and dialed in today was about 45 minutes?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I felt I started slow, for sure.  I felt pretty nervous before the match, because I didn't know what to expect with the ankle.  And I felt like I was overplaying the first five games.
But I realized what was going on, and I was able to change it.
Q. How close were you to possibly not playing here?  I know you have been practicing on-site for a while, but you weren't moving much, at least the first practice I saw.  I don't know how much doubt there was about your form and the risks you might be taking by competing.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: A few days ago, for sure, there were big questions about if I could play.  It's not only if physically I would be okay but also if I therefore had enough just practice days, you know.  There is one thing being healthy and another thing being match ready.
It was definitely a race against the clock.  At the beginning I didn't feel too comfortable and was questioning if I made the right decision.  But I got myself together, and in the end managed to fight through it.
Q. How does it feel after the match?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: It feels okay.  It feels like it felt after the past few practices, even though obviously this was more intense and longer.  We'll see how it feels tomorrow.
Q. You said you were overplaying at the beginning.  Was that because maybe you didn't want to run as much and there were doubts at that point?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: A little bit, yeah.  I just had a few nerves, and I wasn't confident in my movement.  But then I realized once I relaxed a bit and started being a bit more intense with my feet that I could do it.
I just think I had to trust myself more, trust my body, and trust my game, because I was trying to do a bit too much out there.  Even not practicing too, too much the past week, my game is still there, so I just have to trust more.
Q. Playing a little bit injured, does that make you adjust your expectations, or are you playing free from pressure from expectations?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Definitely yes, you know, I almost didn't play.  So for me I was just super happy to decide to play, and super happy with a win.  We'll take it day by day.  And just when I'm on the court try not to think about it, try to go for it, but definitely not really have expectations.
Q. Sevastova in the next round.  What can you say about her?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I have played her a few times.  She's been playing really well lately.  I think she's a tricky player, slice, mixing up, slow balls.  An all-around player, I guess.  I just have to be ready for everything.  Play my aggressive game but also have patience, which I had a bit more today in the second and third.
Q. Have you got a cold?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm feeling a little under the weather, yes.
Q. In what sense, in what way?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I have a small cold.  No big deal.
Q. I don't know if you have followed any of the controversy that's been brewing in Australia around Margaret Court's comments.  There's a bunch of Australian players have spoken out about it and there's been petitions and calls to change the name of the arena in Melbourne, which I know you have played in at least a few times.  I don't know if you have any thoughts on how that whole thing is developing and what Tennis Australia should do, if anything?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, I'd rather not get involved in that.  No comment.
Q. I also have a different question.  The struggles of you the last two years, what part did this incident at the US Open 2015 play, and is the lawsuit still somehow disturbing you?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I definitely, you know, suffered a lot after that incident.  The lawsuit is still ongoing.  But it does not bother me.  It's what I want to do.
Q. Just how good do you feel inside when you're playing well like you were over the last two sets, not making any mistakes, in control of your game?  What kind of things are you telling yourself as that's going on?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm really trying to get my energy up and, you know, I feel more like myself when I'm in those moments of playing well.  So, you know, the goal is to start out like that and keep it for the whole match, obviously.
But when I feel like I'm moving well and playing well, and not overplaying, you know, I have a really good balance of, like, controlled aggression.  That's always my goal when I step on the court.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT