ROLAND GARROS
September 30, 2020
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. BOUCHARD/D. Gavrilova
5-7, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Seems like this French Open has been the shot of the tournament is the dropshot up to now.  I want to have your opinion on whose dropshot is the best on the guys and the girls.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I can't say I've studied enough players' dropshots to give you a definitive answer.  I was watching Novak's match yesterday, they said he did 25 dropshots.  Even he admitted maybe he did too many.
I think it's effective.  I feel like I should do more when I play.
Q. You said this summer you put a lot of expectations on yourself with very few opportunities.  How do you feel now getting back up in the ranking?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I'm proud of taking advantage of the opportunities.  There are so few tournaments this year.  Especially with my ranking, I was very limited with what I could play.  First of all, very grateful to the French Federation for giving me the wild card here.
Also grateful to them for making such a big effort to put this tournament on.  We're all just so grateful to have jobs, have a big event to kind of end our season.  You just, like, have to be so grateful for every opportunity.
I've tried to push myself in every chance I've had because I know there are so few.
Q. Your relationship with Gil Reyes.  I've read about how your relationship has gone.  What is he adding for you from a physical perspective but also maybe spiritually?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Gil is one of my favorite people on this planet.  He's such a special person.  You can't even...  Words don't do him justice.  You really kind of get to appreciate him just by knowing him.
I'm so grateful for his help.  I mean, I've known him for, like, 10 years, but I've committed to working with him last October.  We've spent so much time together, put so much work together.  He believes in me so much.  It helps me believe in myself.
Q. Your thoughts on the match?  Tough three-set battle.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, it was a physical match.  She's a very tough opponent, gets a lot of balls back, is also able to mix it up.  I'm just super proud of myself that even though I kind of -- I think after I went up in the first set, I kind of maybe backed off a little bit, let her take control of the points a bit too much.  To her credit, she played well, took that first set.
The fact I was able to bounce back is something I'm super proud of, is a testament to the mental strength I've been working on.
Q. You know what it takes to reach a Grand Slam final.  We keep saying it's unusual circumstances right now.  Do you think at Roland Garros this year, that is the opportunity for lots of surprises, that you could be one of them?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I'm just happy to be here right now.  I don't look ahead than my next match, because really that's my next job at the moment is my next round.
I'm so grateful to have a job.  I'm so happy to be at a big event.  It's always special playing Grand Slams, no matter what.  I think with the time off, I appreciate the little things even more.
There are some upsets.  I'm sure lots of interesting things will go down over the next two weeks.  I'm just focused on my next one.
Q. There's been so many ups and downs the past five years for you.  How have you stayed so positive and dedicated to the game?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think I've had tough moments, for sure.  I think deep down, you know, still believing in myself no matter what, knowing my skill can't just go away, knowing that I've achieved success before.  It's just something that I'll always have, reinforces my belief.  That's what I use when I need to work hard, when times are tough.
I have especially done that I think in the past year or so.  Proud of this constant work really.
Q. Obviously with all the travel that you've been doing, especially given that you've done this for so many years, how has flying changed for you in the last couple months?  Are you doing anything in particular to protect yourself during this difficult time?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's interesting.  I went four and a half months without getting on an airplane, which is a record since I was probably 10 years old.  It was crazy because I felt like I missed flying.
I got to the airport for my first flight to go to Charleston for that exhibition event.  My flight was messed up, delayed.  I had to rush.  I was like, Yup, don't miss it (smiling).
In all seriousness, to be able to travel to do this right now during these times I think is unique.  I just take care of what I need to do in terms of staying protected.  But besides that, kind of can't complain about anything any more, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT