APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2017
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. KONTA/E. Bouchard
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I take it you're pretty disappointed at the moment, but heading to Melbourne, are you pretty happy with the week?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, for sure.  I definitely didn't feel "on" today, but I have to have some confidence with this week and try and look forward.
Q. What exactly went wrong today?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, sometimes you just get whooped.  I mean, I think she played really well tonight.  She definitely deserved to win.
Her balls were really deep.  She was putting so much pressure on me.  I didn't feel like I had a chance to kind of do what I like to do on the court.
So, yeah, I just didn't feel I was moving as well as I have the past couple of matches, you know, so a couple of little things here and there make a big difference obviously against great players.
Q. Is that kind of recovery from the very hot day yesterday?  Do you think that affected you?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I don't think that affected me.  I wasn't on the court too long yesterday.
But I definitely played a couple of matches this week, which has been more than I have played in a week in months and months and months, so, you know, it's just kind of getting used to that, you know, playing tough matches every single day.
That's what you want to be doing, which means you're going far in the tournament, yeah, like I said, which I haven't done in a while.
Q. Do you think that will help you for next week?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I do think so.  Every match, as I have said this week, I am grateful for every other match I was able to get.  It will only help me.
Yeah, I'm really looking forward on building on this for next week in Melbourne and the rest of the year, really.
Q. The draw tomorrow, do you think there will be people obviously hoping...
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: If they are hoping they won't play me?
Q. Given what you have done this week.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, I don't know.  I can't speak for anyone else.
Q. You had a couple of break points at 3-2 down in the first.  That seemed to be a turning point.  Is that how you felt in that first set?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: A little bit.  Also not being able to hold at 2-All right when I broke back.  You know, it's important to try and kind of consolidate those breaks.
But she served her way out of trouble a little bit in key moments.  But, you know, I did have my chances, and I felt at the beginning of the first set things could have gone either way.  And then once they started going bad, they kept going bad.
That's something I want to also work on in the future, you know, try and turn things around when it's not going well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT