ROGERS CUP
July 28, 2016
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KUCOVA/E. Bouchard
3-6, 6-4, 6-3
An interview with:
EUGENIE BOUCHARD
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Having played just at an amateur level, in one's head, when the expectation is high, it can sometimes be harder than when the expectation is lower.  For instance, the first two matches you played, the expectation was that the opponent was superior, and you rose to your highest game.  When the expectation changes sometimes, does that change inside what's in your head as you're on the court?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I mean, that's the classic thing in all sports, the underdog or not, whether you're expected to win or not.
I think I can do well in both situations, when I'm expected to win and when I'm the underdog.  Obviously this week I had both situations and this time I didn't do so well kind of being expected to win.  I'm disappointed with that.
But I do think the pressure got to me a little bit, especially being here in Montréal, trying to make quarters.
Q. Do you feel at the same time you're making good advances, too?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I do.  I mean, you know, I played some high-quality tennis this week.  I can't forget those two matches.  But two matches is not a whole tournament.  I need to learn how to keep it going and, yeah, deal with the pressure.
Q. What is your reaction to yourself after this?  Are you disappointed with yourself, mad at yourself, or two steps forward, one step back this week?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think disappointed.  I always want to win, of course.  I really felt I had a chance.  But at the same time I might have put too much pressure on myself, you know, thinking that I had such a chance.
Yeah, I have to just kind of not worry about what's going on around, how everyone really wanted me to win, and kind of just focus on the tennis.  At the end of the day, that's what it's all about.
Q. Do you think the reason for the result tonight was more mental rather than your tennis?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I do think so because I feel like I'm playing really good tennis right now.  I just felt I maybe panicked a little bit, tried to finish the points too soon.  She was getting a lot of balls back.  Obviously, really feeling like I wanted to win.
I think it would have been better if I think I was just a bit calmer mentally.  But it happens and I have to learn how to deal with this.
Q. Do you know when you think you're going to go to Rio?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm going on Monday.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. You were in control in the first set.  In the middle of the second set, there seemed to be a change.  Can you explain what happened?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: After 4-Love in the first set, it was very tight.  I believe she got used to my shots, and I was not able to find solutions to finish the points.  I should have gone more to the net and moved forward.
Q. Previously you said that you're stomach was still a problem.  How was it today?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Today was better than the previous days.  It was not 100%, but it didn't affect the match.
Q. We heard your coach tell you to stay positive, stay focused.  Was the problem mental in this match?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I believe yes.  I was more emotional on the court this evening.  I played match after match, day after day with all the tension.
The support of the crowd is great, but it adds pressure.  I was not able to manage this very well for this third match.
Q. You also said you didn't know your opponent very well, which is rare.  Were you surprised by her?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: No, I was not surprised.  I started off the match very well, so I was not really surprised.
But she was hitting back many balls.  I believe I should have moved forward more often and also stayed with her during the rallies.  When I was able to do that, I had the advantage.  I also should have remained more patient.
Q. You were talking about having more emotions today compared with the previous days.  Can you explain a bit more?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I really wanted to win this match.  I was feeling more pressure to win the match because I had a chance to make it to the quarterfinals.  It's because of that.  Also having all the attention on me three days in a row takes a lot of energy out of me.  Today I was not able to control my emotions as well.
Q. You had to wait two or three times for the crowd to stop applauding before playing the next point.  Were you disturbed by the fact that they were cheering for so long?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: It's a good thing.  It's always very special to play in front of my crowd here in Montréal.  But it's a lot.  I love it, but at the same time it is difficult.  Tonight I felt the pressure more.
Q. In the second set you were not playing as well.  Did you just want to let it go and be ready for the third?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I never give up.  I never give up a set to try to start off the next one better.  I believe I started the third set well, too.
Q. You know the social networks.  There were many comments saying that at the end of the third set your body language was showing you were disappointed.  What would you say to your fans?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I would tell them it was difficult.  I had more emotions tonight.  I'm not perfect.  Sometimes it's difficult to manage, especially when you play at home in front of your home crowd.
Of course, many people are there to support you.  But, as I said, sometimes it can turn into pressure.  It happens.
Q. Of course you're disappointed right now, but there are things you can use from what you achieved during the last days for the US Open and the rest of the season.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yes, I know I can play at a high level.  I didn't win all the matches, but I'm positive with my game.  I played well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT