ROGERS CUP
July 27, 2016
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. BOUCHARD/D. Cibulkova   
6-2, 6-0   
An interview with:   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How important was that second game of the second set when you had five breakpoints against you?  How big was that, coming through that game?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: That game was huge.  Such a battle.  Those are moments in a match where things could turn around.  It could have turned around in her favor, I think.   
I was just trying to hang tough, battle it out.  At the end of the day that's what we love doing as athletes.  That was very important for me.   
 Q.  You never played Kucova before.  You talked out on the court about playing your game.  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Actually, I don't know much about her.  It's rare these days, since I'm such an experienced player, that I don't know much about my opponents (smiling).   
I will look to my coach for some guidance.  Besides that, just soak in the atmosphere, use the crowd, enjoy playing another match in Montréal.  Happy I'm finally able to play a third-round match here.   
 Q.  What did you like about your game?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I liked that I was, you know, the one controlling the points this match.  At Wimbledon, she was definitely dominating much more.  I knew I had to change that to have a chance.  I think I did that well.   
I don't know if I got broken.  Did I get broken or not?   
 Q.  No.  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Okay, so I'm happy about that (laughter).   
 Q.  You touched on this in French, but two years ago to this year, what has changed in why does it appear you're playing with so much more confidence and ease than you did two years ago here?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Two years ago I had some really amazing and probably unexpected results.  Coming back to my hometown of Montréal, it was just a huge kind of crazy moment, atmosphere for me, and it was unexpected.  I felt a little unexpected for that.   
It's been two years.  I've had ups and I've had downs since.  I'm maybe a bit more used to attention when it's there.  So I think I was just, you know, prepared for it and embracing it, and realizing it's a great thing if the fans want some of your time, if the media wants some of your time.  I think just knowing it was coming helped me be more relaxed this week.   
 Q.  Do you think this is probably the best game you've played in the past two years?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, game-wise I think it's definitely up there.  Obviously I also love the matches where I win in a crazy tough third set, I guess like yesterday.  But game-wise I felt very solid.  I think I didn't make too many unforced errors.  I was playing how I want to play against someone who's very hot right now.  She's done very well recently.  I'm proud of that.   
 Q.  What about in terms of just the confidence?  Did you feel something different today than you felt in a while?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I've been training hard, you know, since Wimbledon.  I mean, all the time.  But really trying to improve my game.  Just days of practice gives me confidence.  Even though Washington didn't go well, I felt like I improved my game.   
Coming here, having that crowd support, believing that people believe in me.  Whether they really do, I don't know.  But feeling it on the court does honestly give you a boost a little bit.  I just try to use it all in a positive way, like I said.  Luckily it worked out so far.   
 Q.  The point where you got the standing ovation, 4-Love in the second set, it was mainly a defensive point that turned offensive.  Is your defensive game something you feel you improved lately?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think it has.  I've worked really hard in the gym.  I think I'm a little bit quicker.  That's a part of my game I want to use to my advantage, to be able to deal with a player being aggressive on me and trying to turn it around and turn defense into offense.   
I think there were a couple of really tough points today that I was able to do that.  It just gives me confidence knowing that I can maybe outlast my opponent.   
I want to be aggressive, but I can also stay with her if I need to.  Those points definitely give me some confidence.  They're really hard cardio-wise, but they're really fun.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Your best match in the Rogers Cup here?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm very happy that I won another match in Montréal.  Every match I can win here is very special, in front of the crowd here.   
 Q.  How do you explain this victory?  You dominated from the start.  You broke her at the start.  You were very good on defense also.  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I just lost to her in Wimbledon.  That match was very disappointing for me.  I didn't play to my potential.  This time I decided to follow a new strategy decided with my coach, meaning being very aggressive and following up to the net after my first serve.  When I was able to do that, it gave me more chances.   
It was the contrary in Wimbledon.  She put a lot of pressure on me then.   
 Q.  It's the first time you've won twice in a row here in Montréal.  What is the difference mentally between last time in Montréal and this year?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I have more experience now and I know better how to manage everything that is happening around me.  All the tension and everything that is happening this week, I can manage all this, being much more relaxed and having a more positive attitude.   
Two years ago I was not ready for that.  I was a bit stressed by all this.  This time I'm more prepared.  I'm not letting the attention stress me out.  I just consider it as a very good thing.   
 Q.  Yesterday we were worried about your health.  How are you feeling today?  Do you believe your body can sustain the effort through till Sunday?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I was very sad I wasn't able to come and see you last night.  I sent my coach and Sylvain.   
But, thank you.  I had gastroenteritis.  I feel good enough to come to press today, so that means I'm all right.   
 Q.  Can you keep going?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I can improve day after day.  Tomorrow again I'm playing late.  I have time to recuperate, so I'll be okay.  Even if I don't feel well off the court, as was the case today, because I didn't feel that good, when I'm on the court, with adrenaline and all that, I was able to keep focused and not feel it.   
 Q.  In the first game, Cibulkova made a double-fault and gave you the game.  Did you feel the chance was there for you to maybe win it?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think the first game is not that important.  I could break her the first game and lose the match in the end.  Of course, it's always good to win that game.  But you have the whole match coming afterwards.   
I just played point after point.  Against a player at that level, she could come back into the match at any time.  I had to stay focused.   
 Q.  It was your preference to start playing on Tuesday during the day.  But now you prefer playing in the evening?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, yes, it was a lot of fun playing tonight in front of the crowd.  In this tournament, it's even more special.   
 Q.  Gabriela was saying she wasn't sure you were going to play doubles for the Olympics.  Can you tell us what the situation is?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: The plan is to play doubles.   
 Q.  What do you expect from your next opponent?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I don't really know here.  Not at all even.  I know my coach is going to watch videos and he's going to say things to me.  But tonight I'm going to relax and I'll think about this tomorrow.   
 Q.  This is one of your best matches this season.  What was better today?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I believe I was more aggressive, especially on the returns.  Also the fact that I was relaxed, I was intense, but still relaxed.  I was not too focused on the result.  I was just there to have a good performance.  I remained focused and things went well.   
 Q.  You dominated the match.  Can you use that for your next match and keep the momentum going?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: For sure.  When you're an athlete, you want to keep the momentum.  When you start winning matches, you want to keep going in the tournament.  I hope it's going to help me.   
But it gives me confidence anyway to beat a top player.  Also it makes me confident to do the right thing on the court.  It makes me feel I can do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT