WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2016
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. CIBULKOVA/E. Bouchard
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. What went wrong?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I definitely feel like I wasn't on top of my game today and she definitely was. I have to give credit to my opponent. She's playing at a high level in general right now, and she was really going for it and really, yeah, taking it to me. Sometimes, a lot of points I felt like I didn't have an answer.   
  
 Q. You seemed to be getting really frustrated mentally. Can you talk about that? You smashed a racquet one time. Is it more of a mental thing or physical thing for you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: A little bit of both. But, yeah, I definitely was a bit emotional out there. It's frustrating to feel like you're not playing your best tennis at Wimbledon. So that's how I felt.   
You know, sometimes when I get it out, I can turn it around and play a bit better. Yeah, didn't really happen this time, though.  
   
 Q. Did she do anything to surprise you with her game?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, I know her so it's not really a surprise but just‑‑ I mean, maybe a little bit of how maybe aggressive she was. She was even, you know, killing my serves and, yeah, controlling points more than I did.  
So that part, the consistency with which she did that was, you know, impressive.  
   
 Q. There are some people who would say that opponents have figured out your game a bit. That's why you struggle. Do you think that might be part of what's happening or have you tried to mix up your game a bit?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, you know, when I had success and started my career it's an advantage kind of being a new player on tour, you know, the young, unknown type of player. But, you know, I don't feel like that's necessarily a big factor for me today. You know, I think my average results, let's say, last year were due to me and not my opponents figuring things out, because I know when I play my game I can compete with the best in the world.  
   
 Q. How disappointing is this loss? Looked like you were getting back to the form you were in a couple of years ago.   
 EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah.   
   
 Q. How big of a blow is it to you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I mean, I can't forget that I have made steps in the past couple of weeks. So, you know, as painful as it is right now, I do need to realize I have made some progress.   
Obviously losing at Wimbledon really sucks, and, you know, I will try and learn from it. But, yeah, it really wasn't my day a little bit today.  
   
 Q. You missed, especially in the first set, a lot of second serve returns that normally you'd make. What was going on there?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah. I was really disappointed. I think that's probably the worst part of today was my returning. Her serve is not super powerful but it is tricky in the sense that I think it stays low. She kind of slices it a bit.   
I mean, I don't know what was going on, but I couldn't get in the right position, and, yeah, I couldn't believe how many I was missing. That definitely didn't help.  
   
 Q. In hindsight, if you could go out there and play the match again, would you do anything different?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think I would just try to go for it more. I think she was definitely more aggressive, but also I feel like my ball quality probably wasn't up to my usual standard, which allowed her to have time and be able to dictate the points. When I'm free and I hit the ball, it comes off a lot better.  
So maybe ‑‑yeah, it would be a little more relaxed probably.  
   
 Q. I know you have doubles left and you were named to the Olympic team this week. Your thoughts moving forward with the doubles and with the Olympics.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I might play doubles tomorrow. Not sure. I'm still in Wimbledon somehow. But I'm just going to go and have fun. Sabine is fun to play with. We talked. She lost today, as well. We are going to kind of go for it in doubles and try and find our games back a little bit.  
Yeah, take it from there. I'm still taking life one day at a time, so I'm not looking far ahead.  
   
 Q. Olympics‑wise, are you excited about going to Rio?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah. It's my first Olympics games. That should be exciting.  
   
 Q. I know you like the big stage. Court 2 is a nice court and everything, but do you think Centre Court would have been more to your liking?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, Centre Court is always more to my liking. I mean, that's out of my control, and, you know, I have to perform no matter what stage I'm on, whether there is three people watching or I'm on Centre Court at Wimbledon. Yeah.   
   
 Q. Was the court any different than Centre Court after being there the last couple of times?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, the dimensions of the tennis court were the exact same, but the biggest thing I noticed was just kind of the tricky weather. I think it was swirling wind a little bit. Definitely when I already didn't feel my timing, that kind of exacerbated the situation.  
But of course it's the same for both players. But, yeah, it's a nice court. I have played on it before.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT