WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2016
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/J. Konta
  6‑3, 1‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. How do you assess that?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think it was a good match. I think we played high quality tennis. Johanna has a great game, and I think she can become a really good player.  
I feel like in a way she forced me to raise my level. So it was very high quality, I thought. I'm proud of the way I finished.   
   
 Q. Must be sad about your form the past couple of years since you made the final here. Where does that performance rank for you in the meantime?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think it's my best performance of 2016. I have been working very hard, and I know that matches like this with a good performance will come, that it's just a question of time.  
I just need to keep working hard so that they are there more often. You know, just keep going.  
   
 Q. There was no big celebration from you afterwards. Smile. What were your thoughts at the end of the match?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I don't know. I'm so focused during the match that I almost don't realize the match is over. She challenged the ball, so I was just kind of waiting.  
But, yeah, it's more about just being so in the moment that, you know, it's almost I didn't want the match to end. I think it was good. I was enjoying myself out there.  
   
 Q. Was there a turning point for you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I feel like in the second set I didn't play necessarily bad, but I think she raised her level. I think she cut back on a few errors and was even more aggressive.  
So I tried to be the one to do that in the third set. Any short ball, any slower‑paced ball I gave her she would attack and give me no chance, which is what you have to expect against a top‑20 player. I focused on the third set to try and not give her any of those balls.  
   
 Q. You're not accustomed to maybe a hostile crowd, if I can use that crowd. How did you cope with that today? You knew that coming in what it was going to be like. How did you deal with it?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Of course, she's the local favorite, so I expected nothing less. It was still a great atmosphere to play, even if the whole crowd is against me, you know. I see that as a challenge. I enjoy the atmosphere no matter what, because as long as the fans are enjoying the tennis, that's what it's all about.  
   
 Q. Your family loves the British monarchy, your mother especially. Was there any different feeling playing against somebody's who is from here?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I didn't think about that too much. I just focused on myself and, you know, the game of my opponent, not necessarily where she's from. Didn't really cross my mind.  
   
 Q. Johanna has made a very rapid rise up the rankings this year. How far do you think she can go? Do you see her being a contender at some point?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I do think she has a really good game. She reminds me of myself a little bit, trying to control the point. She has a really good serve and really good second serve, as well. As soon as you back off a little bit, she's all over you.   
She put a lot of pressure on me, and I feel like she can go very far with a game like that.  
   
 Q. How much of playing so well is connected to being back with Nick?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Definitely a part of it, of course. You know, I have been working really hard. You know, even when I haven't been doing well, I have always been working hard.  
I feel now that I may be more on the right path and working hard in the right areas. That can definitely make a difference.  
   
 Q. Exactly how did you feel on court when you're playing that well compared to maybe the way you felt in other matches this year when you weren't playing that well?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I feel more focused on the court and having, you know, specific objectives in my mind and not worrying about anything outside the court. Because when I'm on the court, that's my job and that's the only thing I have to worry about.  
So I feel like I'm better at that this year.  
   
 Q. There was a period when things weren't going well where I believe you said I don't want to be here. What's changed between when you were there and where you are right now?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think, you know, everyone has ups and downs, tennis and in life.  
So, you know, I have experienced both of those to the extreme probably in tennis. I have learned a lot from it. You know, I have been able to experience feeling those expectations and pressure and all that kind of stuff, which weighed down on me a little bit, you know, let's say last year.  
So I have learned from that, and now I really find the joy in tennis and kind of only want to look forward and just try to become the best player I can be.  
   
 Q. You're only 22. Do you feel older from everything you have been through?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: A little bit. I think tennis makes you mature from a young age, so I feel a little bit wiser than 22, yes.   
   
 Q. Did you give yourself a bit of talking to between the second and third sets?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I did (smiling). But again, like I said, I think she played some really good tennis, and sometimes there is not much you can do.   
I did feel like I had to kind of go for it even more, because any chance, any time I let up, she was all over me.  
That was my goal going into the third set, and I think it made a difference.  
   
 Q. How important was the break point you saved at the start of the third set to sort of get the momentum back?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think there were a couple of break points in that game, and that is definitely very important to fight on every point no matter what and start off with a strong hold. It definitely gave me momentum after that second set.  
   
 Q. Did it feel strange to have that many break points in the second set yet lose it 6‑1?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I had a lot of break points in the second set?   
   
 Q. Eight.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Really? Yeah. (Laughter.) Well, I didn't know that. Thank you.  
Now that you tell me, yeah, that's not an ideal statistic. But she always came up with some great serves, as well, and some great points. You know, I tried my best and it just didn't work out.  
Like I said, I think I raised my level in the third set, and after losing that second set so badly. I realized I had to change some things.  
   
 Q. Are you usually not aware of that, like break points?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I know what the score is, but I didn't necessarily keep track of how many ‑‑ you know, I try not to think about the score too much. I'm really focused on each point. To me, every point is important, break point or not.  
   
 Q. What's the challenge of playing Cibulkova?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: She's a fighter. Every match I have had against her is a really tough battle, physical and mental. I have a rest day tomorrow and then I'm going to give it my all on Saturday.  
   
 Q. You mentioned it being about fans enjoying it. Has there ever been a point where the admiration is kind of scary, a little too much attention and have been slightly alarmed by the attention you have gotten by fans?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I have never been alarmed by it. I think there were things in life to be alarmed. It takes getting used to maybe. At first when I had attention back in 2014, it was different, of course. It changed my life a little bit.  
But I feel like I learned from it. I'm used to it. You know, I can manage it. I try to embrace it and enjoy it, because it won't last forever.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT