WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2016
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/M. Rybarikova
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. What was it like being out there again on Centre Court?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: It was an amazing feeling, of course, walking out there. But really, really weird and crazy to obviously change courts in the middle of a match on a different day. But to change courts, not just to a regular court, to Centre Court at Wimbledon is very unique.   
It was definitely hard to kind of get your bearings a little bit to be in the middle of a match in that situation.   
   
 Q. How would you compare your level both days and overall?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think similar. I was probably‑‑ had a few more loose errors today finishing the match. I was a little bit nervous going out on Centre Court, as I think most people would be. I just tried to be very, very focused because we were already into the match. Every point seemed so important, and, you know, the match could turn at any moment. So it was important to kind of get off to a good start today.  
   
 Q. Can you give us a rundown of how your day went? What did you do from the time you got up to...   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Nothing. (Laughter.) I was on the same couch for about six hours straight. Very, very challenging day. It's obviously the same for both players and a lot of the players today.  
It's what I guess you have to expect from Wimbledon a little bit, and you have to embrace it and see it as, you know, not something so negative because you are at Wimbledon. But it's so challenging to know when to eat and try and nap but you kind of keep yourself half awake because it's raining. It's that on/off situation all day so it's tough.  
   
 Q. How about your confidence? You were down double break point there in the last set.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I know even if I was a bit nervous I could get myself together and focus and still deliver when it mattered most.  
   
 Q. Yesterday's match, I noticed your coach saying "every ball" a lot of times. Is that a new focus for you? Can you talk about what that means?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: It's all part of the same mentality of trying to stay in the moment, focusing on every single point and even more simple than every point is every ball.  
So that's just my mentality of, you know, not trying to think about the past, the previous point, or look ahead to the future. It helps me stay centered and focused.  
   
 Q. What was that last point like?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I thought it was out (laughter). I almost didn't challenge. Then I was like, Okay. It's match point. I have to challenge.   
I was honestly very surprised. She thought it was out, as well. I think everyone did. I don't know. Luckily the gods were with me on that point so it worked out.  
   
 Q. Can you talk about your next opponent? Do you know who you're playing?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah. Yeah, I have never played her. I know she's been playing really well this year. It's always exciting to have a new matchup and play against someone you've never played before. I know she'll have all the home crowd, so I'm ready to challenge that.  
But, yeah, I just want to play some good tennis and enjoy another match at Wimbledon.  
   
 Q. The other day you tweeted about the towels here. What impresses you most about them, if they are impressive to you? Why do you think they are so coveted?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, yeah, everyone wants a towel. We always kind of grab them off the court. And a secret is if you get rain delayed, you get another two towels when you go on the court the next time. One match, four towels. I think I'm doing good so far.  
Yeah, but especially for me, especially the towels I use on the court and play with are, you know, obviously more significant than one I would buy in the gift shop because I played with it at Wimbledon. I don't know. They are unique. I don't know. Everyone seems to want one.   
So I just take as many as I can because I know everyone wants one.  
   
 Q. How big is your personal collection?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, over the years it's definitely gotten pretty big (smiling).   
   
 Q. The New York Times did a big piece on some of the women complaining about the new Nike outfits.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: The dress?   
   
 Q. Your comments on that?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I like it. I can't comment on anyone else's opinion about them. Nike comes up with some cool, modern designs. And it definitely is short, but that's how I like my dresses so I'm fine with it (smiling).  
   
 Q. You just changed agents, I think. Can you just talk about why you chose him and what you're looking for him to do for you.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, you know, the main reason for me was just to go to a more boutique kind of smaller agency where I'd be the priority for my agent and feel like, you know, I'm getting the attention and knowing that someone's out there, you know, trying to do the best for me all the time. So that was my main idea behind it.  
   
 Q. This has been a really long day. What do you do now?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Get out of here. I mean, I have been here for like 12 hours now. As much as I love Wimbledon, I think it would be nice to get a little break, sleep, and I think I play tomorrow. Do you guys know? I don't know. I don't know. I didn't know I was going on Centre Court until like a half hour before.  
   
 Q. The couch, was that in the players lounge?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: In the locker room. A lot of us were on like ‑‑ we each had our own couch. We were stationed there for a while. We were playing Beyoncé, gossiping, the whole thing.  
   
 Q. Has the way you interact with your peers on tour changed a little bit over the years? A couple years ago there were headlines about you were not interested in being friends. But when I watch you at the net and the exchanges, you interact differently. Is that safe to say?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, you know, what I said was I wouldn't consider anyone, you know, a best friend, a great friend, because it would be hard for me to have to compete against someone like that in a, you know, huge match, huge moment with so much on the line.  
But I have always been, since I was in the juniors and on the professional tour, very friendly with my co‑workers, I guess I can call them. So that's been the same ever since. Maybe as the years go on and you know them a little bit better, you are a little bit more friendly. But, I mean, I have always ‑‑I have always been nice to everyone.  
   
 Q. Do you think that was blown out of proportion at the time?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Of course. Everything you guys do is blown out of proportion. (Laughter.)  
 Q. My memory is not great. Is that the first time you have walked that hallway out to Centre Court since the final?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yes.  
   
 Q. Was that surreal at all? Did it play with your head a little bit as you walked out there?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: That is exactly the word I was thinking when I got off the court. Wow, that's surreal. You know, the same lady that walked me out for the final two years ago walked us out, and after the match we talked about those memories, as well, because that is my first time since the final.  
When I walked out, I kind of had a vision of the final with the full crowd and everything. Yeah, amazing memories. Every time I go out there, it's an honor.  
   
 Q. Did it feel different? Did it look different?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: It felt the same. That's why I had these memories that came back instantly from two years ago. You know, it looks the exact same. It felt the exact same. I was just trying to be focused like I was last time.  
The opponent, you know, the round is different but nothing can change that Centre Court Wimbledon feeling.  
   
 Q. Was the sound a little bit different though? So few people compared to a final?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, well, what I noticed was obviously the ball is a bit different because of the roof and the lights. But I have played under the roof before. But, yeah, you know, it's a feeling like no other. No other way to describe it.  
   
 Q. When did you play under the roof?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: In my fourth round I played against Alize Cornet. We started without the roof and then they put the roof on at 3‑2 in the first set.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT