AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 22, 2016
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/E. Bouchard
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What were your thoughts after that match?  How well do you think you played and where do you think your game let you down?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, it was a really tough match, as expected.  Aga really makes you work for every single point.  I feel like I played well in stretches.  You know, just a bit too inconsistent in some parts of the match, as well.
So I feel like I'm on the right path, but I just want to be a bit more solid.
Q. How do you feel about your Wimbledon leadup?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I feel good.  I think this week was a positive week.  You know, I love the grass so I'm always excited to go to Wimbledon and I feel like I just need to build on this week, stay positive and know that I'm working on the right things and taking steps forward.
I feel like I'm improving.  That's the most important thing for me.  Just keep working.
Q. Did you feel like a few points here and there let you down in certain games so you'd lose a few points in a row and then...
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: For sure.  Against someone who is 3 in the world, you can't really do that.  I feel like in the first set I was a bit too inconsistent on my returns.  She places it well but it's not too powerful.  For me, you know, I had to be more solid and at least make her play.
I also learned that every single Aga lob will go in.  (Laughter.)  Just do not let any of them bounce.  Just take it no matter what, volley or overhead.  I will remember that next time I play her.
Q. Do you think today's match was just partly Aga playing well?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, of course she's super solid and, you know, mixed it up, made it sometimes awkward for me.  You know, she placed the ball really well and still controlled the points, as well.
You know, she played her game.  But, you know, I felt I could have done a couple more things, but I laid it all out there and tried my best.  Just gotta learn.
Q. As we turn towards Wimbledon, is the overwhelming emotion nervousness, excitement, duress?  What's your feeling as you head back there?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: The biggest emotion is always excitement for me.  You know, I think it's the best tournament of the year.  It's my favorite tournament.  You know, no matter what's going on, I mean, I'm just blessed to be able to play Wimbledon and so grateful to be on tour.
You know, it's just an amazing experience every single year.  I want to enjoy it because I know there is not 100 of them.  There is maybe only 10 left so I need to make the most of every single one.
Q. There are a lot of other sporting events around the world going on.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Really?  I don't pay attention to any of them.  It's all about tennis right now.  (Smiling.)
Q. Is there any other sport you feel you would be good at if you weren't a tennis player?  Maybe one you feel your strengths in general would suit you?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I played basketball as a child and it's my favorite sport outside of tennis.  I think I'd be okay if I continued practicing.  Right now I'm terrible but I used to be good.
Q. Not ice hockey?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: That's why I play tennis.  I don't like the cold.  I play a summer sport.
Yeah, I'd have to go with that one.
Q. Any reaction to the Cavs?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I predicted it.
Q. You did?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I was in the car with my coaches, and they both predicted when it was 3-All that Golden State would win.  I said, I'm feeling the Cavs.
We bet dinner on it.  Actually, I got my dinner last night.  I got a free dinner last night because of it.
But I did predict it.  It's just so exciting I think for basketball in general.  Unfortunately with this time zone I haven't been able to watch any of the games, but I always watch the recaps.  I think it's just so cool for sports in general to have such exciting games like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT