AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 21, 2016
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. BOUCHARD/I. Begu
6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You had a couple of pretty good matches this week so far.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I feel like I'm playing well and I'm very focused in the matches, which is the most important.  I have been trying to push myself a lot and trying to stay focused.
Q. What do you think you're doing well apart from focusing?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I feel like I'm really trying to go after the ball and really trying to dominate the point, because all these girls are all good players, you know.  I feel like if I back off or I give them chances that they go after it and they'll, you know, control the point against me.  So it's really important that I try and do that first.
Q. Before the tournament, like how did you kind of prepare?  Did you do a lot of just hitting with your hitting partner, practicing with players, playing sets?  What was your preparation like?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I stayed in Mallorca, first of all (smiling) in the sun over there.  I did a lot of practice sets with girls, and I have been hitting with girls as much as possible.
I feel like that's very important for me to simulate a match situation on the practice court.  You know, if I lose early in a week, I still want to feel like I'm kind of playing matches as much as possible, and I think that helps me when I get on the real match court.
Q. Who are some of the players you have been practicing with?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I hit with Daniela like three times in Mallorca.  We are official practice partners now.  We told each other we have to practice with each other every week.
Who else did I hit with?  I hit with Sara Errani the other day.  Tara Moore.  I have a really bad memory.  So I don't know.  (Smiling.)
Q. Do you feel like you have had to sort of reset yourself a little bit and you're seeing results this year?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: A little bit.  And even in the past couple of weeks I had results that I wasn't satisfied with, so coming into this week I really kind of kicked myself in the butt, and, you know, told myself to go after it, you know, and, you know, not have any regrets.
I live an amazing life, so I just kind of want to make the most of it, and then, yeah, I don't want to look back and have regrets.  So I really want to go for it.
Q. Did you feel that maybe last year you did have regrets with how you're playing or not quite connected?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I mean, I learned a lot so I can't say I regret what happened.  You know, there are ups and downs, and even great champions have bad moments and bad years.
I learned a lot, but, you know, I want to push myself to try and have those bad moments happen as less as possible.  So, yeah.
Q. When you were a junior and you would come and play Junior Wimbledon or some of the tournaments, did you always love grass or was it not until maybe you got the results at Junior Wimbledon that you realized the surface worked for you?  How has that evolved over the course of time?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think I always loved it.  I only first played it ever when I was probably 15, you know, playing my first Junior Wimbledon.
But, you know, I grew up on indoor hard court up in Canada where it's cold.  It's very similar and suits my game style.  But it also requires a bit of mental discipline because anything can happen kind of thing, and serving and holding is very important.
So it's important to stay really focused, so I feel like when I do that well I perform well on grass.
Q. Do you change anything when you go from clay to grass in terms of your game style?  Are you playing just the same way, or are there tactical or technical differences?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think I try to focus more on serve or return in the first shot.  I think that that's even more important to try to get ahead in the point as soon as possible, because obviously the points are shorter on grass.  So it's kind of like, yeah, go big or go home type of thing.
That's what I try to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT