ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2016
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. BACSINSZKY/E. Bouchard
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What's your initial reaction to the match?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Very disappointing.  What's the most disappointing is my game feels good.  My shots feel good.  I feel good on the court.
So, yeah, that's what hurts the most, I guess.
Q. Talk about after you jumped out to the early lead what you thought happened.  Obviously she raised her level a little bit, but did you just feel overwhelmed or just down on yourself?  What was going through your mind?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I felt like I put myself in a good position in preparation and everything.  I've done everything that I possibly could to be ready.  I started out strong.  The game plan was working and things like that.
So I think I lost focus a little bit.  You know, her with her back a little bit against the wall she definitely raised her level.  Yeah, it's unacceptable really to lose ten games in a row in a match.
I think that my focus a little bit was the part that let me down, the mental part.  Something I've been working on.  I had been getting better, so it's not always going to be good.
But, yeah, I mean, I wish I would've done better.
Q. Anything different with the match in Indian Wells?  Anything surprises you or any similarities?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think she was a bit more aggressive than I expected.  What woke me up in that second set was I realized I needed to be that one stepping into the court more.
I more or less knew what to expect.
Q. Tough loss.  We're asking players if they could go back and give themselves advice when they were just emerging into the pro level, if you could give yourself some advice when you were just starting to emerge, what might that be?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: For me it would be to not worry about what people say about you and not listen to all the noise around you.  Just listen to your immediate circle, your team.
Yeah, focus on that and trust you're going on the right path.
Q. If you could follow up, could you talk about what it's like being back with Nick and how did that come about?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm happy to be working with Nick again.  You know, he's known me since I was 12 and we've always had a good relationship.  To work together again has been really refreshing for me.
I think we both appreciate one another probably more having kind of a year and a half apart.  I think he's the right coach for me.
I feel like I've improved already in one, two months with him, so I'm looking forward to a lot more improvement.
Q. You came back in the second set almost to win the set.  Is this performance in the second set something you'll look back to and say, I can do this; I can show tenacity?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I feel like I made up for it a little bit at least coming back and fighting until the end.  I'm always going to do that.  So I saved face a little bit.
It was kind of too little too late.  Soon as I kind of relaxed and played my game, you know, I was coming out on top on a lot of the points.  So I wish I had had that mentality earlier in in the match and not four points away from losing.
Q. You had the two points for 5-All and I think you made errors on both of them.  Was it just too steep a hill to climb?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, definitely disappointed in that game.  I think after 15-40 I made four unforced errors or something.  You know, at least I put myself in that position.
Again, disappointing to not follow through once I was in that position.  Again, got a little bit ahead of myself.  Against a top-10 player, they'll never let you get away with that.
Q. Maybe a tough time to ask this, but where do you see your game in general right now?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Like I said at the beginning, my game actually feels good.  My shots feel good.  My movement feels good.  So I think it hurts a bit more knowing I can play really well right now.
But I know it's a long process and a long journey.  When I restarted working with Nick, we talked about a long-term plan.  Of course immediate results would be great, but it's trying to improve over the long run to become the best player I can be.
And, yeah, so that's talking months, a year, or more.  So I have to kind of keep that in my head, that that's the ultimate goal.  But I know my game is there.  If you can put it all together, immediate results are possible as well.
Q. What are your plans for the next couple weeks?  Obviously grass season coming up.  Is that one of your favorites?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah.  After I get over the disappointment it'll be time to get excited for grass.  I'm scheduled to play every week of the grass season, so I'm looking forward to that.
Yeah, just keep going, keep grinding.
Q. It's tough enough to work on shots and strokes and also on the physical side, but the mental side I would imagine is particularly tough.  If I heard right, you said you were working on that.  Could you take a moment and say how you approach that, how you work on that.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I like to say tennis is 90% mental.  A lot of things in life are really mental.  It's so important, I think.  What I think is my strength, and I feel like I've not used that as much in the past year or so.
So I'm kind of on this path to try to get it to be my amazing strength again like it was in the past.  The brain is like a muscle.  You got to work it out.  (Smiling.)  So that's what I been trying to do.  Doesn't always work out on the match court, but slowly but surely hopefully it will.
Q. You had the abdominal problem in Charleston.  I presume you're feeling a lot better, 100% better now?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I am feeling 100%, yes.  Thank you.
Q. How do you feel playing lefties?  Do you feel that there is much of advantage for them at this point, or do you feel it's sort of six one, half dozen of the other?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think it is a bit tricky playing a lefty because there is not that many of them.  We don't face them as often and it is a different spin.  It's kind of opposite a little bit.
So I think, yeah, it's a little bit trickier playing lefties for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT