ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. BOUCHARD/L. Siegemund   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  What would you like the first question to be, Genie?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Wow.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  What was the hardest part of that match for you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Running down the dropshots.  I knew that she likes to mix it up a lot so I was ready for that, but at the beginning the first few still surprised me a bit.   
I felt I did much better a couple games into the match.   
 Q.  How are things going now that you're back with Nick?  Ironed out long-term plans?  Is it working well?  Is it helping your game?  In what ways?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm really happy to be working with Nick again.  Yeah, I mean, the plan is to work together right now.  He knows me so well.  He understands when I'm going through difficulties.  You can read me.  It's like he's inside my head.   
So having a kind of partnership like that is really beneficial.  I'm really happy with it.   
 Q.  What kind of a grade would you give yourself for the match today?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I would give myself an A.  I felt I was very focused throughout the whole match.  I let up a little bit at the beginning the second set, but was able to regain my concentration right away.   
Yeah, never let up, even at the end of the match.  So I think it was very good, focused effort from me today.   
 Q.  Has the focus been the biggest difference for you, or do you feel it's been more physical and bad luck with aches and pains, whatever it's been, between a couple years ago now and the last six or seven months?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think it's definitely been a mixture of both.  I mean, I feel like, yeah, when I've had bad results you can't really pinpoint one thing.  It's a perfect storm of events, as with any unfortunate event in life.   
But I know the mental side is so important for me.  I think when I played well in 2014, it was my strength, the strongest part of my game.  I definitely feel like I lost that a bit in 2015.  It's super important to me and I feel like I'm regaining it.   
How about them Raps?  Can we talk about that?  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  We could actually.  Yeah, go ahead.  And then I'll ask you something else.  Talk about that.  I am surprised they've hung around.  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: You're surprised?   
 Q.  Yeah, I am.  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm not.  Well, I can't watch it live, which sucks, but as soon as I wake up it's like the first thing I Google every morning.  I watched the three-minute highlights on the way to the courts this morning.   
Just good.  Impressive.  The atmosphere seemed amazing over there.  I don't know.  Kyle Lowry showed up, so it was good.  I don't know what's going to happen though.  It will be very interesting to see, because Cleveland is undefeated at home, but the Raptors have this momentum.   
So it's exciting.   
 Q.  She really does just want to ask herself questions.  This is good.  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I will just talk to myself.   
 Q.  You mentioned something, I think it was on the WTA site or a Podcast you had done about appetite.  You were having nerves and stress.  Can you talk about that a little bit more and how that affected you and how you have helped yourself figure it out?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, it's definitely a struggle I had in 2015.  I felt a lot of pressure and kind of this expectation if you win a match it's normal and if you lose it's a disaster.   
Before matches I was very nervous and definitely had trouble eating.  I just felt like it would come right back up.  It's is difficulty I went through.  And not just before matches, but happened to me at other meals as well.   
So people think I was concerned about my body image and things like that and I was losing weight on purpose.  That was really not the case.  I was just so stressed I was burning calories even more than I normally would, so it was hard to kind of intake enough to keep my weight up or even gain weight, which was the goal, to become stronger.   
So, yeah, something I went through.  I feel like I learned from it.  I know now that even if I feel sick I have to force food down my throat.  Yeah, I feel like I've come out stronger and able to deal with a problem if it ever comes back to me again.   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  Did you hire a new dietician?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Not a specific dietician, but with the trainers around me.  I was also speaking to a sports psychologist, things like that.  Just my team around me to try to help.  I got through it.   
 Q.  You turned things around at the US Open really.  How do you think you did that finally?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Jimmy Connors helped.  I think I had a really bad loss the week before in New Haven, and that kind of was a huge reality check.  It was a slap in the face.  I looked at myself in the mirror and I was like, Genie, what's going on?  Let's go.  I kind of got my shit together in a way.   
I was just so disappointed in myself for having these average results.  Very, very motivated.  I worked very hard the week before the US Open.  I had a fresh, positive, inspiring voice in Jimmy.  I just told myself to get my act together and I worked really hard and stayed positive more I had you throughout the whole year and somehow managed a couple good wins.   
It's small little things that take -- that it can take to turn around a season or anything like that.  But I was able to recognize it.  A little late in the year, but I did it.   
 Q.  Should they play zone or man to man?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Oh, God.  Okay, okay.  I'm a basketball fan, but like if you start speaking the lingo, I'm not...   
 Q.  Possibly Bacsinszky next round.  How do you feel about that?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm excited.  I want a rematch from Indian Wells.  I know she plays great, especially on this surface, I think.  But I'm going to go for it.   
I know with my game that I can definitely come out on top, but as usual it's always one point at a time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT