ROGERS CUP
August 6, 2019
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. ANDREESCU/E. Bouchard
4-6, 6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Considering the level that you played, especially in the first set, do you feel even with this result and knowing how you and Bianca are close that you felt that you had some progress in this match towards the way you want to play and how you want to have yourself on the court in terms of your style?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I think it was a solid match from me and the best I've played since I've come back from injury.
You know, she's 20 in the world.  She's a great player.  So to battle with her till 6-4 in the third gives me confidence and just motivates me to work even harder.
Q. And did the crowd support that you got, even with, of course, Bianca getting love, but you still got great crowd support and so your reaction on that and how that shows fans still love you all the way.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, my fans will always love me.  (Smiling.)
No, that was really, really cool to play a fellow Canadian in Canada, to have, you know, a sold-out crowd and to feel the love.  And I don't know if she got a bit more fan support than me tonight, but I felt the love out there.
And, yeah, I'm so happy she's back, and I'm happy to, you know, continue playing with another Canadian at the top.  And it's fun, you know.
Q. You have been in the position that Bianca is in now, having broken through at a very young age and kind of invited all the expectation and pressure that comes along with that.  Is there any advice that you would give or have given her about navigating all of it?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I think she's doing a good job so far, so I don't know if she needs my advice.  (Smiling.)
But, yeah, I think she's doing well.  You know, we were actually messaging on Instagram when we found out we played each other, and we were actually saying how cool it is, like, that Felix and Vasek were playing each other first round and then me and her, and that it's good for Canadian tennis.  I was like, Yeah, let's just put a show out there.  And she was like, Yeah, let's go.  And I think we did.
Q. When you were out there and the performance was very strong and solid, what do you think is the difference in tonight's match in terms of her getting that 6-4 set?  And then also in general where do you think -- is this a big step forward for you and how far off do you think you are?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, well, I definitely think she raised her level.  She started really, you know, smacking the ball in the second set and just shows what a good player she is.  She has a lot of good power on her balls when she hits it well.
I think a couple of games here and there when I got broken in the third, I was a little bit tentative with my shots, and that's not my game.  So the goal moving forward is to consistently have that aggressive mindset and that aggressive game.
I think it's a medium step forward.  You know, I've only been working with my coach a couple weeks.  And he keeps telling me to trust the process, and I'm an impatient person so it's hard.
But, you know, I feel like if I keep going on this path, good things will happen.
Q. Speaking of positive things, with these two words, both Overwatch and crosswords, because you seem to really love crossword puzzles with New York Times where you consider yourself the crossword queen of the WTA tour.  And your thoughts on that Overwatch event at the US Open over the weekend and how fascinating that was to see that play out in the whole gaming world from your perspective?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, it's the first time I really experienced the gaming world.  And, you know, I heard the winner of Fortnite recently made $3 million, so I might pick up video games.  (Smiling.)  I mean, that's crazy, that's impressive, and it's a whole world I never knew.
In terms of crosswords, I mean, I don't really want to talk about how much of a dork I am, okay?  Let's move on.  (Smiling.)
Q. How have you maintained your positivity?  What's been the key to staying upbeat through the injury, through the losses this season?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I feel like I've matured and just I've put things in perspective a lot more.  So, you know, playing tennis for a living is the most unbelievable thing, and I feel so blessed and lucky in my life.  So losing a match is really nothing in the grand scheme of things.
And I just really am enjoying it a lot more now, and on the court I'm staying more positive, and I'm fighting, and, you know, that's all I can do.
So whatever happens, happens.  And I have to trust the process, as Joel says.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT