AEGON CLASSIC BIRMINGHAM
June 17, 2015
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. MLADENOVIC/E. Bouchard
  6‑3, 4‑6, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Overall impressions of the match?   How do you think you played, and your opponent?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think I played okay.   A little bit up and down.   I was trying to be more aggressive than I've been in the past, so I felt I did that okay in the first and second set.  
Then I don't know what happened in the third.   
   
 Q.   When you say you don't know, you can't elaborate on that?   You don't know yourself?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   No.   I really don't know what happened.  
   
 Q.   Obviously 2015, the form, how would you describe your mood at the moment?   Are you anxious?   Are you upset?   Are you angry with yourself?   What adjective would you use about yourself a the moment?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Every negative adjective you could think of, I would use that.   Just very, very frustrated.  
   
 Q.   Can you see it changing in the next week or two?   Anything you can do to make it change?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I mean, you just have to keep going, right?   Every time you fail you have to pick yourself up and keep going.   That's what I've been doing in the past couple months, but it's still been happening.   
So I still need to keep going and have the belief that it'll turn around.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to go to Eastbourne?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What are you and Sam going to try and work on in the short term now, because it's only a very quick turnaround.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's not that quick of a turnaround.   I'm losing first round every week, so I have a whole week to prepare for the next week.   It's a pretty tiring routine.  
I mean, I don't know what we're going to work on.   Hopefully stuff that helps me get better.   
   
 Q.   How did you find the rain delay, and how difficult was it to play an opponent who has had a grass court tournament already?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I've had a grass court tournament already as well.   
And I think the rain delay actually helped me because I was able to talk to my coach and realize a few things I could do better.  
So even though I came out and lost that set, I felt it helped me for the second.   
   
 Q.   It can be a variable surface.   If you have doubts about your form already, must be more difficult to come onto a grass court and play at your best; would that be true?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Probably, because it's a quick kind of style of play that we play.   Anything can happen a little bit, and it's just very quick tennis and shorter points.   
You really have to be, yeah, confident and on your game or else, yeah, it's less good.   
   
 Q.   You did so well at Wimbledon last year.   Can you take a lift from that, do you think?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Hasn't helped me so far, so I don't know.   
I think forgetting about it is the best thing I can do.  
   
 Q.   You said you were frustrated, but I thought you kept your cool quite well out there.   Didn't lose it mentally.   Is that difficult to do when you are frustrated, to just keep together?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, they told us if we smacked our racquets on the court we would get a huge fine, so that's why I tried to keep my cool.  
   
 Q.   So it's worked then?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT