ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2015
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  K. MLADENOVIC/E. Bouchard6-4, 6-4THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. It was probably disappointing loss.  You tried a hard comeback in the second set.  What can you say about the match and in general about this year?  Kind of what's wrong, do you think, with your game this year?  Is it more mental or physical?  How do you feel about this match and your season so far?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: About today, I mean, honestly I don't know what to say.  It's been kind of the same as how I have been feeling recently on the court.  Just not like myself.Q. Did you at any point consider skipping the clay court season and preparing for grass court maybe?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: No, that never occurred to me.Q. In Rome it looked like your game was maybe coming back little by little.  How do you explain that it doesn't click when you want to this week or previous week?  What is missing in your game?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I definitely felt a bit better in Rome.  I think that just makes it more disappointing to have a performance like today. So I just feel like it's been a while that this has been happening, and, you know, it's unfortunate.  But, you know, I'm sure one day it will stop.Q. 3-All in the first set.  Did it sort of feel normal?  Did you feel like maybe you were in there and things would work out and sort of after that sort of came apart a bit?  Did you feel up to that point that you were sort of maybe in it and were going to be able to win the match?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I felt I was in the match.  But tennis-wise, I still knew I was far off from how well I can play.  But, you know, I was in there, and I just felt like I couldn't be as relaxed as I wanted to on the court.Q. You said you're not feeling yourself on the court.  Is it the same way in practice, as well?  When you're stepping on the court, do you feel flat going in or are you not able to translate good practices into the matches?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: No, practice has generally been better.  So I have just been kind of waiting for it to click on the match court, as well.Q. This is your first first-round exit in a Grand Slam.  When things like this happen, do you linger long in that zone thinking what you could have done differently or can you move on fast thinking about the next match?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah.  I mean, definitely for a day or so I'll, you know, think about the match, but I think it's important to try to move on quickly in tennis in general because, you know, every Monday there is a new chance.  So I'm going to try and forget this one.Q. Have you come up with any thoughts of kind of why you're having this slow period now, or is that what's frustrating that you can't really work it out?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I feel like I have been trying to work on what's been going wrong, and I feel like I have been making progress.  So to still have matches like this is actually disappointing. But, I mean, at the same time it's just a tennis match and, you know, I need to not worry too much.  Life is still good.  Everyone has highs and lows in their career.  This is a little bit of a low point for me.Q. What are your plans for the grass?  Do you think possibly going back to that surface where you have good memories last year, that could maybe flick the switch for this year?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Hopefully.  I mean, hopefully the grass will be good for me. Plans are to go and play and play a couple of warmup tournaments, and, yeah, hopefully enjoy it.Q. You have said in the past that you always have high expectations of yourself.  When you came to Paris, did you also set the bar really high for yourself or were you trying to take some pressure off yourself?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: At this point I had no expectations coming in.  I have no expectations for the foreseeable future.  Just going to take it one day at a time and, you know, just try slowly work my way back up.Q. Have any former players or people with a lot of experience sort of tried to commiserate with you and tell you maybe what could help you get out what you're going through right now?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: No.Q. Did you have time to talk to Sam about today's match?  And if yes, what has he been telling you?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: No, we haven't talked yet.  I'm procrastinating about it a little bit.Q. We were talking to Ernests Gulbis the other day, who also had a few bad losses in a row and stuff like that.  He said what works for him is not to overthink it and overanalyze.  Are you able to not overanalyze this or what kind of state of mind are you in?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think it's hard to not try to think about what's going on when it's not going well.  I think, but I do think when I'm playing my best tennis is when I'm being more instinctive.  I think that's something I need to get back, just, you know, trusting myself, because I know I can play well.THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.Q. So last year you had a great season.  I mean, did you expect such a turn of events?  In sports you have ups and downs, so you've changed your organization.  You have a new coach.  Maybe there have been too many upheavals in your career.  How can we explain all of that?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I don't understand your question.Q. Did you expect, I mean, such a tough season compared with the season of last year?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I expected a good season, better than that of last year, so I realized it won't be the case all the time.  So I have learned a lot recently.  Moreover, I have to be patient.  The results won't come immediately.  I know I can go through difficult times.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT