ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2019
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. TSURENKO/E. Bouchard
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. How do you feel about the match?  You have good moments, and worst one?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah.  I feel like for not having played a match in a couple months, it was actually not bad.  I know a couple things I want to work on, but it was just so good to be back out there again and play in front of a crowd.  So, you know, I feel good.
Q. What specific things would you like to improve upon?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think my serve let me down today.  I haven't served in a long time.  So I feel like I don't have the consistency on my serve.  And I was a little bit scared to go for it because of this injury I've had.  And I felt it a bit more in the second set, so it's just something to keep working on.  So that's the main thing, I think.
Q. Who are you going to be working with for the next, let's say, few weeks or months?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think I'll have the same kind of format for Wimbledon and then take it from there.  I feel like things are going well, so I'm not really concerned.
Q. What is your schedule moving forward?  What are your plans?  Are you going to play a few events, take it easy, or what's the schedule?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Eastbourne and Wimbledon.
Q. When you say you felt it again, that's not a good sign, is it?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Not the pain, but it just gets tight or a bit sore.  So it's just -- I think with nerves and tightness of the match, I just feel it a bit more.  And it's been sore in practice in the past couple weeks just from increasing volume.
So it's fine.  It's something under control, but it just shows me to just be aware and careful.
Q. Have you had this kind of soreness in the past when you're coming back from the same injury and you eventually get over it?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah.  I mean, it can get better.  I mean, I felt it sore a week ago, and then I was feeling great a couple days later.  So it's on the way up, but it's not like, you know -- (indicating).
Q. Great.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah.
Q. Two things.  What is it that you miss the most about not being out there competing, and what is it that you didn't miss at all?  You can say us.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, honestly, just performing in front of a crowd.  At the end of the day, we're entertainment, you know.  So seeing all the people out there and hearing a lot of them cheer for me is something that you can't get anywhere else in life.
I would say the toughest part that we do is the travel.  So I was injured, but I was happy to be in one place for a little bit longer than normal.
Q. How would you explain to us silly Americans the secret sauce of Canada's fabulous success of late?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I mean, I think tennis in Canada has been really good for a while now.  It's been like five years or more.  So I think the young ones get inspired by seeing the older ones doing well, and it's this continuous cycle.  So hopefully it will continue this way for as long as possible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT