BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2015
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. TSURENKO/E. Bouchard
  6‑7, 7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously a tough match physically and in every other way possible.   Talk about how you were feeling out there and I guess, yeah, just how that felt throughout the whole way.   When it probably started, I guess. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think, you know, a lot of things just didn't go my way today in terms of everything.   I felt heavy out there.   Legs sluggish from the beginning of the match.   I tried to get myself going, but it was kind of a struggle throughout the whole match.
Yeah.   I mean, I just, you know, didn't feel like I was myself at all in terms of how I was playing.   She was, you know, very solid, very consistent.   I was really struggling.

Q.   What exactly happened at 2‑3 in the second when you went off?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I just served and felt my ab a little bit.   I got it taped during the match.   It happened a little bit, for sure. 
But, you know, I wasn't, I don't think, serving very well after that, so just another thing that didn't really go my way.   You know, it happens.

Q.   You were emotional after the second set and through the third.   What was going on?   Was it frustration or was it the pain or anger?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think I let emotions get the best of me today.   I don't usually do that.   I usually pride myself on not doing that.   It's been a while since I felt that emotional in a match and after. 
You know, sometimes I guess it happens, but it's definitely kind of a learning type match.   It's a tough one.   It's a tough one to learn from, but that's what I have to do.

Q.   Could it be also the expectations around you that maybe it's starting to be a bit difficult to handle?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I don't think so.   I think I have handled expectations so far pretty well.   I think it's more myself. 
I mean, I wasn't feeling great, and, you know, I really expected more from myself.   Yeah, I mean, I didn't feel good in terms of my tennis at all.   I don't even know how many unforced errors I made, so please don't tell me.   (Smiling.)
Yeah, just frustrating, because I felt like it was a bit on my racquet.   It was my winner or my error.   So I felt like I had a bit of that control, and I think it's more frustrating to lose that way.

Q.   You played well in your first two matches.   You said you didn't feel well and didn't play well in the first set today.   Do you have any idea where that came from?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   No.   I think everyone has a bad day once in a while.   You know, I was feeling good this week.   At least I had a few good matches.   But, you know, I don't know.   I mean, I don't know how to explain it.   But, yeah, it's unfortunate.

Q.   Did you get a sense of it at all during the warmup‑‑ not the warmup, but the practice session before the match that the legs weren't firing or you weren't feeling... 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I didn't hit well in my warmup at all, but sometimes that happens.   Then I go out and play amazing.   So I was hoping for one of those days.
But it turned out to be an even worse day where it got worse in the match.
So, yeah, it's just kind of a learning experience.   Next time, you know, if I feel that way, really try to change something, try and turn something around in the practice before the match.   You know, try and get myself going in another way.
I mean, I did try, so, you know, I can't regret anything.   Just, yeah, frustrating also because I had some chances in this match, of course.   I was in a good position a few times.   That was a good thing.

Q.   Do you expect the ab to be any sort of issue for Miami or not major?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I mean, I'm hoping it will be okay.   It's hard to say right now.   I think I have a decent amount of time before Miami, as well.   I think everything should be fine.
I can hit the practice courts soon.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Did you take an anti‑inflammatory?   How does it feel right now?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Right this second it feels fine since I'm not moving.   Yeah, I haven't really had time to assess it or anything yet.   I will do that after this.   See how it is. 
It's something I have had before, and if I take care of it right away, it's something that has gone away quickly in the past.   I will cross my fingers for that, as well.

Q.   You're kind of a silent monologuer; you're constantly talking to yourself.   Are you chastising yourself in those moments or telling yourself positive things like on the changeovers between points?   Kind of what's your personality on that?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Depends how it's going, I think.   Today I think it was a really good thing the microphones couldn't hear me.   It was definitely ‑‑I'm always tough on myself even if it's going well.   Today I was really hard on myself, of course. 
I just expect so much better.   I just expect my shots to feel better and, you know, to finish the points better.   I was just, you know, frustrated at myself that I couldn't kind of find a way, you know.   I always try to find a way, and I really struggled with that today.

Q.   Were you a little bit stubborn about not calling for Sam until 4‑3 in the third or whatever?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I called him in the first set.

Q.   Second, beginning of the third, looked like you weren't feeling well. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's something I don't want to use too much, because in the biggest tournaments of the year we are not allowed that.   I want to try and figure it out on my own, and that's his mentality, as well.
You know, just if I'm maybe feeling desperate or something.   But, you know, he helped me when he came out, but that's something I don't want to use that much. 

Q.   You signed up to play World TeamTennis this summer.   Do you remember when you were 15 and everything seemed no big deal and everything was fun?   Why was your decision to play again this summer?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I have always had a good experience playing World TeamTennis.   I won't play the full season, just a couple of matches.   I think it's really fun and a good kind of team experience, sense of a team spirit, which we never get in tennis.
So, yeah, during the summer when there is a few weeks off, you know, I was thinking, yeah, it will be fun to play a couple of matches.
So we will see how that goes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT