BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2015
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. BOUCHARD/C. Vandeweghe
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Last year was your first year; it was a blockbuster.   You're coming back this year to do the same and get better.   First of all, are you happy to be here in this part of your career?   And also, how do you deal with expectations from yourself and people around you?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I have definitely felt a change in the past year or so, a lot more outside attention and pressure and expectations.
So, you know, I kind of hear it vaguely in the background, but I really try to not focus on it and focus on the pressure I put on myself, because that's more than enough already.   Just focus on my goals and what I want to do. 
As for last year, I mean, you know, I'm proud of what I did last year.   I think I progressed quickly, which was great.   But this year is a new year, and I'm not thinking about last year.   I'm not concerned about defending or anything like that.   I'm just trying to do my best at every single tournament, and we'll see where that takes me.

Q.   Talk about your game today.   Looked like it was pretty clean, especially your service game.   You didn't face a break point until the last game.   Can you talk about your game and also your service game?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I was a little bit lucky on that one, wasn't I?   Yeah, I felt very solid today.   I think that's important against a player who can have big weapons.   You know, I kind of told myself to be ready for anything. 
She had some great serves and some great forehands.   I was just ready for that.   I was going to try and neutralize that and take my chances when I had them.   So I'm happy I was able to, you know, step in and attack whenever she, you know, let up a little bit.

Q.   But also, if you could expand on your service game.   That was remarkable that you didn't face a break point until the very last game. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think my serve was a bit more consistent today, which I'm happy about.   I still think I can serve better, and I'm always working to try and get it better.   It definitely gives me confidence knowing that I was holding serve pretty easily. 
Trying to start off the points just being aggressive, you know.   If I have an easy ball after that, I'm just trying to move forward.
That's always my goal.

Q.   Do you feel that you're a little bit more the hunted rather than the hunter this year compared to last year where obviously over the last 12 months most of the other players have got to see you a lot more and maybe figured out how to play you a little bit more?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   For sure.   I definitely have sensed that switch a little bit, and I feel ready for it.   I expect everyone to pretty much play their best against me and be really motivated to try and win the match.   I see that as a kind of challenge.
Yeah, there is no more secrets.   Everyone knows how I play.   You know, they will try and figure out a way to play me, but that's how it is, you know.   I'd rather be in this position.   I have worked towards this position.

Q.   Do you prefer to be the hunter or do you prefer when other people are chasing you?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I of course prefer to have people chasing me, because that means I have, you know, achieved a certain level.   You know, near the top or at the top.   That's my ultimate goal. 
So as tough as it is, you know, it's tougher to probably stay there.   But, you know, that's the challenge.   That's what I'm trying to work for.

Q.   Obviously with your results last year I'm sure you feel like you belong at this level, but how fresh are the tournament experiences for you still when you come to these big events?   Are there any pinch‑me moments or, has any of that... 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I mean, I still feel a lot of excitement just coming to any tournament, especially bigger ones like this one.   I'm just, you know, so happy to be able to play matches.   You know, I haven't played a match in over a month.   So I was really excited to play competitively. 
It reminded me how much I love this, and this is what I work for is to play these tournaments and these matches.
But, you know, I always use my past experience to try to help me.   But, you know, I know this is where I should be, and I feel like I can be even better.   So for me it's a normal step in the journey.

Q.   What's one thing you noticed here that you didn't notice last year?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   At this tournament? 

Q.   Yeah. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   The gym got bigger.   (Smiling.)   There's always crazy improvements at this tournament.   It's an unbelievable event.   Very player‑ and fan‑friendly.   I'm trying to think of other things. 
I mean, the fans have a lot of access to us, which I think is great.

Q.   On or off the court or in town?   Anything else where you say, I didn't notice that last year?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   What else?   I mean, I have noticed a lot of Canadian flags and stuff.   I think I noticed that last year. 
Just everything is just bigger and better.   I don't know how else to explain it.

Q.   You have been with Sam now the last six weeks more or less.   So major changes?   Small ones?   Just talk it a little bit. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Not major changes.   You know, I'm not looking to have major changes I think in my game.   Happy with what my game is like.   I think I can improve a bunch of aspects of it, but, you know, I'm not looking to change anything big.
We haven't had that much time training, and not that much tournament time, either.   So, you know, I consider this almost my first tournament with him.
So, yeah, I like what he thinks about my game and the vision he has going forward, but, you know, we are keeping my general same aggressive game and just trying to improve on that.
But we'll definitely have a lot of work to do.   (Smiling.)

Q.   What are the differences just in the day‑to‑day with him?   For example, when you're training.   Do you have longer or shorter practices?   More intense?   Do you work on different things?   What are some of the things he may do differently than previous coaches you have had?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   He's very intense and very tough, which I like.   I think we have maybe a bit longer practices than I have had in the past, and a lot more variety, a lot more, you know, working on specific things that, you know, maybe I haven't worked on before where it was maybe a bit more general, which I love.   You know, I love having specific things in mind.
Yeah, definitely just a bit of a tougher overall mindset.   You know, I was in the gym outside after my match today, so, you know, the work never stops.

Q.   Have you changed much over the last year?   In my memory, you made the comment last year that you're not here to make friends.   But has your attitude and your approach to playing on the tour changed over the last year?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I don't think so.   I think I have kept the same mindset I have always had.   Just about trying to do my best, trying to be the best person and player I can every single day, trying to improve a little bit every single day.   You know, just coming to a tournament or to practice and seeing it as my job and work, but also work that I love and work that's fun.
Hopefully I have matured a bit in the past year.   I have turned 21 in the past year.   Huge life milestones.   (Smiling.)

Q.   What did you give yourself for your 21st? 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Nothing. 

Q.   After Antwerp you were hurt.   Was it serious?   Was it that big of a deal?   You didn't play another five weeks more or less. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, the plan was to only play one other tournament besides that one anyway, so I didn't miss out too much.   I just wanted to make sure I took the time to heal, because it's the beginning of the season, and, you know, I think I did a good job of doing that recovery and then getting‑‑ using the time to try to get into even more shape.
So I think I did that well.   I have just been craving tournaments and matches.   So I'm just really happy to be here.

Q.   What are your goals this year?   Win more matches?   Win a slam?   What have you set for yourself?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   All of the above.

Q.   Can you list them?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, my ultimate goal is to, of course, win a Grand Slam and get to No. 1 in the world.   But, you know, I'm 7 right now, so it takes steps to get there.
So, you know, I have to be 6 and then 5 and, you know, continue that way. 
But, you know, I want to be more consistent this year.   I think that's something I can improve on from last year and go to every tournament well‑prepared.   I think that's a good goal for me to have, go to every tournament believing that I can win, being prepared to win, expecting to win, and having that kind of mindset.

Q.   Talking of the consistency.   Three straight semifinals in the slams and the final; that seems pretty consistent.   Can you elaborate what you mean by consistent?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, well, I think I did well last year peaking at the right times at least.   But between those slams I definitely didn't play as well or I could have played better. 
I think to be, you know, No. 1 you have to be consistent pretty much week in, week out.   That's probably the toughest thing to do. 
So that's, you know, a goal for me to slowly start trying to do.   But if I'm not going to be consistent, at least I will try to peak at the slams.

Q.   So Maria is playing Vika tonight.   Will you actually watch it or would you want to?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I might, yeah.   I always love watching tennis as a fan, first of all.   You know, it should be a great match, a great kind of rivalry, so I think I'll definitely watch it.

Q.   So who wins?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   (Shaking head.)
Q.Come on. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   That's really tough, because, you know, Vika is coming back a little bit and we are not sure how her form is; it's been looking great recently. 
Maria has always been playing really well.
Honestly, I can't say anything.   I can't say anyone.

Q.   On the score of No. 1 and Grand Slams, if you had the choice, what would you rather see come first?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Since I was young, my dream was to win Wimbledon and win a Grand Slam, so in my head just lifting up a slam trophy like that is, you know, the ultimate thing I want to do in my career. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT