AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2015
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  M. SHARAPOVA/E. Bouchard6-3, 6-2An interview with:EUGENIE BOUCHARDTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. What would your number one regret be?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I felt under pressure the whole time, a bit on my back foot.  I mean, that's not how I want to play.  I feel like I didn't start well, and it kind of all went downhill from there.  It's definitely easier when you have a good start to the match.Q. How much better was she today than in Paris?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, it's hard to compare, you know, a match from a year ago on different surfaces, different circumstances.  I mean, I think she definitely played well today and she didn't give me many chances.  I know I could have done better for sure, so I'm disappointed with that, with just general, you know, not taking the few chances I got here and there.  Against great players, you have to take every little chance you can get.  Although she didn't give me many, I know I had some.  Disappointed I couldn't do better with those.Q. Any reason you were hitting long so much?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, I knew I wanted to kind of go for it.  But I don't know, just some bad errors.  I didn't feel like, you know, I was kind of dominating the ball like I usually want to.  Yeah, I felt a bit under pressure, and I felt like I didn't have enough time maybe to set up as I normally do.Q. This is your first time coming into a tournament defending a lot of points.  Semifinals last year, quarterfinals this year, losing to the No. 2 seed.  Seems like a pretty good effort in terms of dealing with the pressure.  Do you feel the same way?  Are you happy with this run?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm never happy with losing.  I wanted to obviously win today, win the tournament.  But, you know, I feel like I dealt with, yeah, pressure, outside expectations well.  I wasn't really focused on the whole defending thing.  I really just tried to block that out of my mind.  So I think, you know, that helped me get through the first week, get through some, you know, matches that could have been tricky.  But, yeah, you know, I always want to do better, especially than the year before.  I'm always trying to aim for that.Q. Were there any nerves today?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: A little bit, but normal, I think.  I'm always a little bit nervous before matches.  I think that's the normal process.  It means the body's ready to go.Q. How do you see your coaching setup moving forward from here?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, that's something I'm going to focus on now.  I'm happy with the team I had here.  I think we did okay, but it's something I need to adjust.  Now that the tournament's over for me, I'm going to look at these decisions and see if I need to make one or not.  So, yeah.Q. When you don't have the time to set up on your shots the way you want to, what are your options tactically?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I still wanted to try, you know, to kind of go for it.  But if I don't have enough time I probably go for riskier shots and that's why I would miss a few more.  That's why I think I made a few too many unforced errors today.  Just feeling under pressure, feeling I had to go for something.  That's what she does well:  she puts pressure on her opponents.  But I have to be able to get out of my own way, step in, go for it, and when I get my shorter balls, to really finish the point.Q. What were the conditions like today?  Did they have any effect on you?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: No effect, I guess, but definitely cooler.  Yeah, almost like dark and cold.  It was a bit odd.  But probably a refreshing change actually for all of us.Q. You'll be going back to somewhere cold and dark:  Canada.  Are you looking forward to Fed Cup?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I don't know if I'm playing or not.  Am I playing, Jill? Well, I'm going to go visit the family, that's for sure.  Take some time off, rest the body a bit.Q. Why would you not play?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: That's something I was going to decide after the tournament.  You know, my tournament ended like half an hour ago, so I'm still going to talk to my team and make the best decision for me if I can play or not.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT