AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2015
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  E. BOUCHARD/A. Friedsam6-2, 6-4An interview with:EUGENIE BOUCHARDTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Good to come through the first round of a Grand Slam with a good victory like that?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I mean, I think the first round is always tough, especially at the beginning of the season.  So I'm happy I was able to stay pretty solid.  I think she played pretty well.  That's something I guess I have to expect.  Now often players will kind of go for it and play a really good level against me.  Yeah, I'm happy I stayed calm out there and pretty solid.Q. How did you find Margaret Court Arena as a venue?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Really cool.  It's a cute little stadium.  I think there was good atmosphere on the court.  Makes playing so much more fun.  I don't know if the fans have fun, but we certainly have fun.Q. Did you always feel control out there?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: You know, I was just kind of focused on every point.  It was definitely kind of a tougher back-and-forth battle in the second.  But I just stayed calm and I knew once I got a chance I would try to take it, and that's what I did at the end of the second.  I had to kind of weather the storm a little bit when she'd serve well or go for her shots.  A couple times she could string together a couple good points.Q. When you were a junior, being a twin yourself, what do you make of the Pliskova sisters?  Do you ever think of what it would be like if your twin was on tour?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: First of all, this reminds me of the announcer.  When I was on court he mentioned my twin sister, Beatrice.  It was super weird.  He even mentioned like Prince Andrew and stuff.  I'm doing overheads and I'm like, Did he just say Prince Andrew?  Like what does that have to do with my tennis career?  I don't know what that was about.  I think I'll talk to them.  I don't know.  (Smiling). But, yeah, I mean, well, my twin sister started with me when I was five and she retired at six.  I never had the chance to think about, Oh, this would be cool if we could travel on tour together.  It ended pretty quickly for her. But, yeah, I think it's really cool to have like so many successful people like that in one family.  But I think it would be tough, as well, if you would ever play against each other.  I look at the Williams sisters.  I don't know if I'd be able to do it.  It's so tough to, I don't know, compete against someone like that, who you want them to win just as much as you want to win.  I don't know.  I think it's good that she doesn't play tennis.Q. Also, would it be hard being compared against each other?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I mean, we already get compared to each other as it is enough, so if we did the same, you know, work in life, it would be even worse.  I think she would hate it just as much as I do.  We already get compared enough.Q. I don't know if you know, there's been a number of seeds in your immediate section that went out today.  Are you aware of that?  How do you feel about that?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm not aware at all.  I didn't even check the draw at all after the match.  I asked my coach who my next opponent was.  What does it matter who I'm playing in the fourth round?  I have a second round.  That's all I'm concerned about.  I don't even have to force myself to not look at the draw.  It really doesn't interest me.Q. Playing her today, did you have any flashbacks to the last time you played her?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: No.  That was so long ago and I have a bad memory, so I did not have flashbacks.  I knew I was going to be ready for someone kind of going for it, gunning for her shots, and that's what happened.  You know, at this stage it's about being ready for that.  I know I was able to deal with it even when she was playing well.  Whenever I had little chances I think I took them.  Overall it was solid, I think.Q. How much better do you feel mentally and physically than you did at that point of the US Open?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think I'm at a different level tennis-wise.  Definitely more refreshed mentally, I'd say.  I haven't played an official match in two and a half months, so it really does give your brain a break.  For me, it makes me so excited to play.  Yeah, just I feel good mentally on the court.  I'm just so ready to fight and leave everything on the court.  I don't feel tired at all.  Yeah, it's great to have that off-season.  I feel excited for the new year.Q. What do you know about your next opponent?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I know a little bit about her.  I've never played against her.  I actually don't really know much.  I'll ask my coach.Q. A lot has been made about Milos Raonic's haircut.  Have you seen it?  Thoughts from you?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I have not seen it.  I made fun of his hair last year.  I don't know how it's different now.  I just think he spends way too much time worrying about his hair.Q. More than you?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yes.  Clearly (laughter).Q. How would you evaluate your serve in this match?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: My serve wasn't as good as I'd want it to be, for sure.  I felt like she was returning well; I felt like I was returning well.  So I think, you know, I wasn't happy that I wasn't getting as many free points as I wanted to on my first serve. But I had a couple breakpoints against me many times in the match and I was able to either get a good serve at an important point or just kind of fight through it.  In the end I think I did okay on my serve, but it's definitely something I want to be better.Q. Velocity was noticeably up though compared to last year.  It wasn't like it was a hot day where the ball is flying.EUGENIE BOUCHARD: It definitely feels better than last year.  You know, I always want it to be.  I feel like it can be much better still.Q. You mentioned Milos' worries.  If you could worry a little less about something, what would that be?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: That's a deep question (laughter).  I don't know what to answer to that.Q. Don't worry about it.EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I'm trying to think about what I worry about.  Clothes, shopping.  I don't know.  That's not really a worry.  That's like a good thing - for me.  I'll come back to you on that.  I'll think about it.Q. What is different about the Australian Open experience as a Grand Slam compared to the others?  You had great success here last year.  Is there a feel?  How do you put into words this major for you?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: There's definitely such a laid back kind of atmosphere here.  I find the people so friendly, but at the same time the fans get really into it.  I feel like Australians are amazing sportsfans. It's just kind of a relaxed slam.  It's the first one of the year.  I just think all the players are so excited.  I've always loved coming back here.  Australia is like my favorite country.  Yeah, out on the courts I love the hot weather.  Even if it's like 45, I love it.  Yeah, just makes for a great slam.Q. What were your thoughts last year when you saw the Genie's Army for the first time on Court 15 and you find out they're just a bunch of students from Melbourne and they're pulling for you.EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I was really surprised when I walked on the court, Court 15, like the furthest one from center court.  I walked on and heard this screaming and singing.  I was like, What's going on?  I looked and I saw all these guys with the Genie on their shirts and everything.  I got pretty nervous actually.  I have to win for them.  They put in so much effort, I can't lose in the first round.  I had a tough match actually.  Glad I pulled it out. It was really cool to see that kind of support, something that they organized so well.  Even if I'm down, they're trying to sing their songs and stuff.  They're like more positive than me almost.  So, I don't know, they're a cool group of kids.Q. Do you hear it much when you're on the court or do you close that out?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think I vaguely hear what's going on.  Not so much.  But when they have their special songs, I hear that a bit more because it's a little bit more unexpected.  I hear their songs a little bit.  Makes me laugh on changeovers.Q. Any one you particularly like?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Um, the one where they go, Genie's hot, hot, hot. (Laughter.)Q. What about thoughts on playing a week before a major?  Is that something you'd like to do moving forward?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, last year I think I played an event before each slam, and how I did at that warmup event was completely different sometimes and I still had good results at slams, so I don't think there's a magic formula.  This year I wanted to, for this first slam, take a bit more time to prepare.  That's what I did.  I got to Melbourne a week early. I think it's more how I feel.  I'm not going to have the set kind of rule.  I'll take it as it comes.Q. Did you like that week here to prepare?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: So far, yeah.  You know, you just get that extra time to hit on the courts.  You don't feel rushed, especially if you maybe did well the week right before.  But sometimes I lost first round that week before and still had that whole week of preparation.  Yeah, I'm pretty kind of flexible.  I'm not too worried about having a specific routine.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT