CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Nice showing in Wuhan.   Why do you think you were able to avoid the upsets that plagued so many of the other top seeds?  
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, after the US Open I took some time off to rest physically, and then I really made an effort to kind of try to have a good training block.   I think it paid off to kind of skip a tournament or two.   
    I didn't play HongKong.   I didn't play Tokyo.   I think skipping those tournaments and really having almost two full weeks of training really helped me to just get back to playing, you know, how I know I can play well.   
    I had a tough summer, so I feel like my level is back to its best or maybe even better.   
   
 Q.   Lisicki's serve is one of the hardest on tour.   How do you prepare for that?  
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's funny.   Actually this morning in practice, my hitting partner, he just moved in and stood closer to the service line than the baseline to serve to me.   I told him, You really need to serve hard.   
    It's just about practicing, getting used to that pace.   But I think I do well, you know, returning.   I'm confident in my return.   I think it will just be a good match.   I've never played against her, so I'm excited.   
   
 Q.   How confident are you about your chances to make it to Singapore?  
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, that's definitely something that's been in the back of my mind.   It's something I try not to worry about too much because it depends so much on other players, as well.   
    I don't know exactly where I stand right now.   Of course, I would love to go.   But I have a great tournament this week.   I'm just going to try to focus on this week and whatever happens happens.   
    It won't be the end of the world if I don't go.   I'll survive.   
   
 Q.   As you said, you had a few struggles in North America.   Why do you think you're performing better halfway across the world?  
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I definitely had a tough time after Wimbledon.   I had a few injuries.   I had to take a lot of time off for that and just to rest after a crazy European season.   
    So I never felt prepared going into tournaments.   I was always kind of rushed training a little bit, going to a tournament.   I just kept trying to play tournament after tournament.   I played four in a row.   That method didn't really work for me.   
    That's why after the US Open we decided, okay, skip a few tournaments, train more.   You know, it worked this time.   It won't always work.   I feel like I finally got good training in and physically I feel great, which is the most important thing.   
   
 Q.   Last year when you were in Beijing you started from the qualification round.   Now you are in the main draw.   You are seeded No.6.   What do you want to say to last year?  
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I've come a long way in a year.   I'm proud of the progress I've made.   It's been very quick.   It's taken a lot of hard work.   
    But when I look back at last year, for sure, you know, I was in quallies.   For me qualifying and winning a round was a good tournament.   
    I definitely want to do a lot better than last year if I can.   But, you know, just kind of thinking about last year makes me reflect that I have come a long way and I should be proud of what I've accomplished.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT