DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/E. Bouchard
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   First I'd like to congratulate you on your final result, runner‑up, and we want to hear your assessment of the whole match.   Do you think it was difficult?   What do you think of your whole performance?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think Petra has a big ball, you know, so it's tough sometimes to get into her rhythm.   I feel like I did better than I did at the final of Wimbledon but still not good enough.
I still want to try to play my game more.   I think I had a few more opportunities in this match today, maybe a few I could have done better on.
But, you know, all in all, I think I'll take a lot of positives from this week. 

Q.   Tactically what do you think you could have done better today?   Or was it just an issue of execution, do you think?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think I did well to maybe stand back a little bit on her serve, but then I could have maybe stepped in more throughout the point.   I think maybe I gave her a bit too much ground.   You know, when she's, you know, on her game, playing her aggressive game, it's really tough to beat her that way.
I think I maybe should have tried to go for a bit more like in the first few shots and kind of play more first‑strike tennis, because that's definitely how she plays and maybe try to beat her to the punch a bit more often. 

Q.   Can you talk about what happened with the finger in the second set?   How did you hurt it?   Did it really affect you the whole second set?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I hit a forehand and hit my left hand with the racquet, hitting my middle finger, so I was a little surprised at myself that I have hit a million forehands in my life and I still can't hit one without hitting myself.
It was really quite painful, and I don't think it affected me.   I could still, you know, with tape and adrenaline, still play as I normally would, but it's pretty painful now.   It's surprising how such a small body part can actually be so painful.

Q.   Did you have to take any pace off your shots after it happened, or were you hitting just as hard as you would?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think I tried to put it out of my mind and just tried to play.   You know, these things happen.   It's just a finger, so I'll get over it.
But, you know, it's a weird incident.   It's something that's never happened to me before.
You know, I still tried to hit my backhands.   I might have done better in the second set than in the first, so maybe it helped me.   I don't know (smiling). 

Q.   How much does the leftyness affect the matchup for you?   Is it something that actually does affect you in terms of how you respond to it, or is it just, hey, she hits a big ball and it doesn't matter whether she's left‑handed or right‑handed, it doesn't matter?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I always find it tricky playing against lefties.   The ball comes in a completely different way.
So, you know, I think I used to probably do less well against lefties, and now I think I can adjust better.   But it's still very tough, especially on the serve I think for me is the trickiest part. 
But, you know, it's something you just have to get used to right away in the match.   Even if you practice with it, it's still a bit different in a match.
But, you know, on her left side, like her forehand wing and everything, she can really do a lot of damage with the ball, so that's, you know, what probably gave me the most trouble. 

Q.   Now I'm one of the Genie Army.   I'm so nervous when you play and I also keep my fingers crossed.   I wish you happy, but I want to say you really play well in the last two games.   So I just want to know like will you come back to Wuhan next year?   And, like, do you think you play well all the games in Wuhan Open? 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, is there a tournament here next year?   Okay, so I'm coming back (smiling). 
I have truly enjoyed my week here.   My team and I like to say we have become one with the Wuhanians.   It's our first time here, and we felt very welcome. 
I also really like the conditions and the courts.   I feel like I have been able to play well this week, and so I have, you know, a lot of positive memories from this week.
Yeah, I truly can't wait to come back next year.   It's been an amazing week. 
Is that what you call them, Wuhanians?

Q.   (Off microphone.)   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Wuhanian sounds cooler.   I'm Wuhanian (smiling). 

Q.   Maybe you can meet and play Petra again in China Open? 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   If I can win there?   

Q.   Yes. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I will try my best.

Q.   Good luck for you. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Thank you. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   And yesterday you just brought a panda to the press conference, and today you brought another toy.   So we want to know whether you will bring it back to Canada, and we also hope that you can post a picture on some social medias to the fans in Wuhan. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, well, the fans gave me these, so this one looks very scary and evil, but I will still accept it even if it looks possessed and it might attack me tonight (smiling). 
Yes, I will bring it back to Canada.   I will have some heavier suitcases, as usual, but it's the price to pay.
If you're lucky I might post a tweet or something.   Just watch out (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT