DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 26, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. BOUCHARD/C. Wozniacki
  6‑2, 6‑3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
Q.   Is the Genie Army in town?   How did you get the bear?
  EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   They threw it on court.   I think it's the first animal I have seen since the French Open.   So glad to see the Genie Army is still somewhat alive. 
Q.   Obviously a very good win today.   Best match you think you've played since Wimbledon?
  EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think I would rate it that way, for sure.   I think I played very well aggressively, and it was all about trying to maintain it. 
  Of course I expected some resistance, and she definitely, you know, made me fight for each point.   But I was happy with the way I was serving and stepping in and the way I kind of regathered my concentration. 
  So, yeah, I feel like I was very, very good, maybe up there with Wimbledon, maybe better.   It's hard to put it in a ranking with other specific matches, but I'm feeling good on the court. 
Q.   Can you talk about what you learned from that loss against Petra at Wimbledon and going into tomorrow what you can do differently, based on that?
  EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think I didn't impose myself enough in the Wimbledon final, and she was the one kind of controlling the points all the time.   But, you know, she played really, really well, so there wasn't too much I could do and that happens sometimes.
  So I hope tomorrow I can kind of, you know, do my thing more on the court and not get, I don't know, maybe pushed around so much (smiling). 
  I'm feeling good on these courts, and I'm going to try to take it to her as much as she's going to take it to me.   I know what to expect, so I will be ready. 
Q.   (Through translation.)   In the first set you seemed to have got an injury in the foot.   Will that influence tomorrow's final?   And Kvitova has said that she's willing to win a title of Wuhan Open and send it to Li Na as a gift for retirement.   Do you have any comments?
  EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Okay.   First, I kind of had a wrong‑foot thing on the court.   I thought something ‑‑I felt a little bit of pain in my ankle, but I don't feel anything now.   I hope it's good.   Doesn't mean it's horrible.   So I think it's a nonissue.
  And second, I mean, you know, my goal is to try to win tomorrow, as well.   I would love to win the title here.   I think that's a very generous thing of Petra to say.   That's not something that would come to my mind, but that's cool (smiling). 
Q.   Obviously a Wimbledon final rematch.   The courts seem to be playing pretty quick.   That's what everybody has been kind of saying.   I'm just curious to see if that's how you feel. 
  EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yes, I have found the courts pretty fast here and not so bouncy, which I like.   You know, I like the fast surfaces, but so does my opponent tomorrow.
  I think maybe it slides a bit less as the grass, so hopefully that will help me a bit more, maybe not help her lefty serve so much.   But I have really enjoyed the courts here from the first practice, from the first ball I hit.   I was, like, I love the courts in Wuhan, so I hope to keep this going tomorrow.
  But I think, yeah, I think the courts are great.   I don't know.   I'm just looking forward to a battle tomorrow. 
Q.   Petra said you two actually practiced before the tournament.   First question on that is how did that come about?   Like who asked who?   Was it a full practice or just like a light hit?
  EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think like both our coaches were at the practice desk and just ‑‑I think she was looking and I was looking, and they looked to each other and they were like, why not? 
  Yeah, so I think we know each other's games well obviously.   We played some points and things like that.   I think I was losing.   It's been multiple times now.   I need my revenge.   I'm going to try really hard to get that tomorrow (smiling). 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT