DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 25, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. BOUCHARD/A. Cornet
  6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You seemed to be cruising in the second set, 5‑2, and then were you surprised by the level of resistance that you faced after that?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I was not surprised by the level of resistance.   I know Alize can really fight and get a lot of balls back and come back when she's behind, so I was, you know, kind of expecting that. 
I feel like I could have closed much better.   You know, I was up 5‑2, serving, I had new balls, you know, I felt good with my serve.
You know, there is no excuse for that.   That's, you know, something I really need to work on is closing out better in my matches.   It's happened a few times this week.   That's something I want to work on. 

Q.   At 5‑All in the second set, you came out and you played a pretty incredible return game, breaker at love.   What were you telling yourself after kind of squandering that 5‑2 lead that got you to be able to play that sort of return game? 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I was a little disappointed I lost three games in a row.   I was serving for it twice. 
You know, I just told myself at 5‑All‑‑ you know, I feel like I backed off a bit and I told myself that, you know, I can't lose my level, you know, in a few games.   You know, I have the confidence in myself.   I can still play really well, and I kind of just backed away from it. 
So I told myself to step up and keep playing well.   I think I played how I played to get to that position.   You know, just kind of relaxed a little bit.   I thought, you know what?   We could be out here for another hour, whatever, doesn't matter.   I'm going to just try to play my tennis.   That's when I play my best. 

Q.   Is Nick going to be joining you at any time in Asia or Europe or are you flying solo?   What's the story?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   He's not joining me.   I think Asia is a little too far for him.   He can be a little princess sometimes.   But yeah, you know, it's been the plan, you know, certain number of tournaments this year.   He's already done more than what we have agreed on and it's been great.
You know, it's good for me to have some time on my own, as well, figure things out on my own and have a little bit of space.   It's always nice.
Yeah, the plan is not to be with me for now until the end of the year unless there is Singapore, but I'm not talking about Singapore, so it's all good. 

Q.   Then next up you haven't played either Caroline or Timea before.   How heavily do you rely on scouting reports in that sort of situation, or do you kind of go in on feel?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, my coach, even though he's back home, he will watch the match and maybe previous matches they have played to give me‑‑ you know, then we will talk about it a little bit in terms of tactics. 
I have never even practiced with Caroline.   I have practiced with Timea before.
You know, that doesn't really bother me too much.   I'd like to just go out and swing and try play.   I think we see them play on TV and stuff.   It's not like they are unknown players. 
I will definitely talk to my coach about strategy, but I'm excited to always play a new player.   It's different.   It's fun. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   After the match you have also pointed out that you want to win the Wuhan Open.   Compared with other seed player just like Kerber or Wozniacki, what do you think that your advantage is?   And do you have confidence to win them?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I have confidence in myself, and with each match I think I gain more confidence. 
I'm not looking ahead to winning the tournament, though.   Of course that's a goal in the back of my mind, but, you know, I'm looked forward to having an early night finally.   I'm going to watch a movie and chill tonight and get ready for semis tomorrow. 
You know, it's very exciting.   I'm happy to stay in Wuhan another day.   Even though it's incredibly humid here, I'm happy to be here (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT