DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 23, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. BOUCHARD/M. Barthel
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   In the first set you were a little bit out of form but you adjusted quickly.   So I wonder, how did you adjust yourself after the first set?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I feel like I made a few too many unforced errors in the first set, and she likes to hit the ball hard so there is not so much rhythm. 
But I think I took a step back on the first serve return, was able to get a few more returns in, and started serving a bit better my first serves in the second and third set, so I think those two things helped me out a lot. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   Aga and Halep were eliminated from their matches, and so how do you feel about these eliminations of these seeds from the match?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I didn't really pay attention to it.   I'm not worried about other players' results.   I'm just focused on myself and on each match I have to play.

Q.   (Through translation.)   Are you accustomed or used to the court here in Wuhan, the matches?   Because in some matches some players eliminated and withdrew from the match because of some injury.   So how do you get used to the court?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I really like the surface of the courts here.   From my first practice I loved the feel of the courts.
Of course it is a bit humid here in Wuhan, as you can tell from my hair.   It's not the best (smiling). 
But I am well hydrated on the court, and I feel great physically on the court.   So that's a positive.   That was a goal in my match today, to be well hydrated, and I am. 

Q.   Obviously you're now a very high‑ranked player, and you won international level tournament this year, but do you think it's important for you to win big tournaments to try to tell people that you deserve to be here and that you deserve to be No. 6 in the world?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I don't think I need to prove anything to prove my ranking.   You know, it is what it is.   It's how the ranking system works.
I would love, of course, to win a tournament, any tournament, and I think winning a big tournament would be a steppingstone to winning a Grand Slam.   You know, those are goals that I have.
But, you know, it's a long process and a long journey to get there, a lot of hard work.   And, you know, that's what I'm trying to do every day. 

Q.   After the US Open you also went to visit some fashion shows during fashion week.   What kind of experience was that?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's nice to get a nontennis question (smiling). 
It was really, really fun.   It was my first time doing fashion week, and I just kind of discovered this whole other world.   Very intense, very interesting.   I loved my experience, but definitely, you know, one day of that was enough for me.
But I loved seeing all the new fashions and being able to sit front row at these shows.   It was special. 

Q.   Caroline was getting advice from Anna Wintour to get her hair cut a little bit.   Did you get any similar advice from her, as well?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Sorry, I'm not sure if I understood.   What was the question? 

Q.   Caroline was given advice from Anna Wintour about her hair, to get cut a little bit.   Did you get any advice from her, as well, like hair cut or something?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   No, she didn't tell me I should cut my hair, so I guess my hear is nice how it is. 
She's really into tennis, though.   It's great to chat with her.   I was sitting with her at one of the shows.   She's very into tennis.   We talked about Roger's matches and our love for him.     







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT