DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 21, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   You performed much better in Grand Slams than your performances like the tournaments, WTA circuits.   So what do you think is the reason?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I think I can raise my game when it's big matches and big stages.   I really enjoy, you know, playing on big courts, which are the Grand Slams.  
But, you know, I try my best every week no matter what, and I see all tournaments as an opportunity to try and win them.   Even if they're kind of a warmup tournament for a slam, I still see it as a good tournament to try to do as well as I can.  
So, I mean, I always try my best each week no matter what.   
   
 Q.   This year for you may be really a special year, a special season for you.   In the last year have you ever imagined that you have be at this high level this year?   What happened on you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   What happened, what?   
   
 Q.   What happened on you.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   To me?   
It has definitely been a good year for me.   You know, playing in semis and finals of Grand Slams is something I have dreamed of but definitely something I have probably expected from myself, as well.  
I have put in, you know, years of hard work for this, so it's what I have been aiming to do.   You know, it's motivating to have good results and motivates me to try to do better.   The year is not over, so I definitely want to end the year on a good note.   
   
 Q.   It seems easy for you to pass the transition from a young player to adult player, which is a really difficult period for most players.   How did you make it?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think the transitions from like juniors to pros is a tough one for some players.   I don't really know what happened, but for me I just kind of transitioned pretty well.   
I still played juniors really late, so I don't know if that had something to do with it.   I played the junior slams when I was 18, so I think that probably helped me dealing with pressure on those things and the juniors kind of helped me deal with it in the pros.  
But, yeah, it really kind of happened pretty fast, and before I knew it I was, you know, playing on the WTA full time.   So I think, I don't know, maybe I got lucky a bit (smiling).   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Well, in the eyes of most photographers in Wuhan, you are the most beautiful tennis player of the new generation, so how do you evaluate your comparison with Sharapova in terms of both your look, your appearance, and the techniques and skills on the court?   How far do you think you are from Sharapova?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, thank you, first of all.   Yeah, I mean, I have been compared to her many, many times.   I think I see it both ways, because she's a great champion.   She's won five Grand Slams, so to be compared to her skill is a good thing, I think.  
But at the same time, you know, I'm tired of getting asked this question and I'm my own person and I want to be, you know, just Genie when I play on the court and, you know, just try to make my own history.   
   
 Q.   We all know Li Na was retired, and we all know you played with her in the Australian Open.   What's your opinion on this issue?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think she was a great player.   She won two Grand Slams, so it's an amazing accomplishment for her.   It's sad, I think, for all of us that she's retiring.   I think we will all miss her funny speeches.  
My personal favorite was Australian Open I think 2011 when she won her semifinal match, and she said what motivated her in the third set was the paycheck.   I was a junior at the time, and I remember thinking that was very funny (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Because we all know you withdrawed from the Hong Kong Open several days ago, so we are caring about your health.   Did you recover?   We want to know will you fight you stay in Wuhan Open?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, after the US Open I took a whole week off tennis, so I definitely recovered and, you know, I have been really trying to, you know, eat better, feel myself better, hydrate myself for tough conditions.   
I know it's going to be humid here this week, so I'm going to try and prepare as well as I can.   I'm confident that physically I'll feel good on the court.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT