U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  E. BOUCHARD/B. Zahlavova Strycova6-2, 6-7, 6-4An interview with:EUGENIE BOUCHARDTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Can you tell us a little bit about what happened in the second set, how annoyed, if you were, that you had to go to a third.EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I was disappointed in myself, not necessarily about going to a third, but by my level in the second set.  I was surprised I could do so many unforced errors in one set.  You know, that's something I definitely don't want to repeat again.  But I'm determined to do better in my next match.Q. Could you describe the atmosphere tonight.  Everybody was cheering for you, calling your name.  How did you feel?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: It was special tonight.  I felt so much energy on the court.  I've never felt that much energy on any other tennis court in the world.  So it was an unbelievable feeling playing on Arthur Ashe tonight.Q. Seemed like you won the first set, up 3-2 in the second, somehow after that you lost the plot.EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think she was mixing up the balls well, getting a lot of balls back.  I felt maybe it threw off my rhythm a little bit, her changing the rhythm. Yeah, I mean, you know, you don't always play amazing.  I did way more unforced errors than I expected myself to.  So that definitely didn't help my case in the second set. But, yeah, I mean, I could have definitely kept my emotions in check a little bit more.  But I'm happy in the end I was able to kind of pull myself together.Q. Were you struggling with energy levels tonight?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Not energy.  But in the third set, you know, I felt when things still weren't going my way, I felt a little lull in my game again.  In the second set I felt it, in the beginning of the third. Somehow I was able to, you know, snap out of it and turn it around.  But, you know, it's important to at least realize when I'm in those moments, try to get myself out of it, which I was able to do.Q. Did you feel that lull at the very beginning?  What was your approach after the first game?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: The first game, yeah, I made a few errors.  I was with the wind on that side, which was different than my previous match on Ashe.  The wind was really strong from the complete opposite direction.  So that was a bit different from me. Yeah, I just didn't adjust to the wind properly in the first game, but I felt I was right in it.  You know, I won the next four games.  I don't feel like I had a slow start at all.Q. At times you were really angry with yourself.  What were you saying to yourself?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I was just frustrated in my level.  I expect so much more from myself.  To just give away so many free points is really frustrating to me.  So I was definitely disappointed with that. You know, I realized in the third I can still stay with her, I don't have to go for crazy shots all the time.  I think I was a bit too impatient basically in the second set.  You know, even if I stayed with her once in a while, I can let her lose the point, I don't always have to do an amazing winner.  It's like I wanted to go for it a little too much. It's about finding the right balance because I definitely want to try to go for it a lot.  Yeah, it's about finding the right balance.Q. What do you expect out of Makarova?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I expect a lefty (smiling).  I think I've played her once and I lost that match I think a couple years ago.  I know she plays really well.  I think she's played well this year.  I think she had a good result at Wimbledon. It's always tricky playing a lefty, so I'm going to get my 60-year-old coach to serve to me.  Hopefully that will prepare me a little bit. But besides that, I'm going to try to do better.  When I'm ahead, I'm going to keep going, keep pushing, really try to, you know, impose my game, but at the same time, you know, stay consistent.  So I'm going to work on that in practice tomorrow.  I just want to do better in my next match really.Q. Can you compare the ends of the first two matches?  You seemed to be sharper at the end of the last match.  Is that maybe because she was a better opponent?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I feel like I pulled myself together at the very, very end tonight.  I think I played a little better in my second round than I did tonight.  But both were quality opponents. Tonight, you know, she got a lot of balls back.  She made me work for it.  At the same time she would occasionally come to the net, mix things up.  It was the kind of variety I haven't seen much of.  Generally most opponents don't do that.  So it was a little different. But I'm just proud at least that I could battle.  Even if it's a little bit ugly or I don't feel great, I can still pull it out, which made me happy.Q. You have a junior Wimbledon title.  Do you think there's a lot you need to do differently to win a women's singles title?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think juniors and seniors, there's a huge level difference, of course.  I'm very proud of my title win in the juniors.  That's still my proudest accomplishment in my career to date. But, you know, my real goal is to win a real one.  I think it's going to take a lot.  I think it's going to take better tennis than what I did tonight.  It's going to take the fight I showed tonight.  I want to improve on playing the way I know I can play which is much better than what I did today.Q. Five of the top eight women have gone.  What do you think of that?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I didn't know the stat was that high.  I try not to pay too much attention to the draw because that's down the road hopefully for me.  I didn't even know my opponent after tonight until Rennae told me on court.  I really generally don't look at that. But I think there are so many good players, and it just shows even if you're a top 8 seed or a top 4 seed, you're not guaranteed to make your seed.  Every match is just so, so tough. I'm happy I'm able to battle through these tough early rounds because you can't take anything for granted really.Q. You said the crowd made you feel like you never felt before.  Is that something you almost have to learn how to deal with?  Is it difficult to deal with?EUGENIE BOUCHARD: A little bit.  You have to get used to it.  It's a huge stadium, the biggest in the world, with amazing hard court tennis fans that really get into it.  It's a different experience.  It's something you kind of have to get used to.  For me, I try to block it out between points and stay focused on what I have to do, but still try to use the energy a little bit the right way. So it's definitely kind of a learning experience.  I've had two night matches in a row so I feel like I'm getting the hang of it a little.Q. When you won the match, they were playing music called Genie.EUGENIE BOUCHARD: You mean 'Genie in a Bottle,' the song?Q. Yes.EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I don't know who does that.  Whoever does that, I love you.  It's really cool.  This is two matches in a row, before and after the match, they're playing my song.  Feel like they know me.  I just feel so special.Q. Do you feel like the crowd here has adopted you?  Serena is the only U.S. singles player.  Canada is not that far.EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I definitely felt their support tonight.  Yeah, we're neighbors.  We're pretty similar countries.  So maybe they have adopted me a little. Yeah, the support, the screaming, the chants, it's amazing.  It's so motivating.  I wish I could play on a court like this every day.  That's what makes the US Open so special.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT