U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2018
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. VONDROUSOVA/E. Bouchard
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You played a bunch of matches here, had to get through the quallies.  Assess your overall form?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I think I'll have to take a lot of positives from the past couple weeks.  Although I'm very disappointed with today.  I've been playing matches, and that's what I feel like I need.
Q. Obviously you didn't play your best today or anywhere near it.  Did you have any feeling beforehand or at some time early in the match it wasn't going to be your day?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I didn't know beforehand, no.  Yeah, on the court, I really didn't feel like myself.  That's very disappointing, considering how good I felt in my last couple matches.  Yeah, I mean, I played like shit.
Q. What would you say is the reason for your switch towards going back up the rankings, doing better, what has been the difference?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: I've just kept pushing.  It's a grind.  You just got to keep going.  That's what I've been doing this year.  Had a couple injuries.  Really just tried to put in some hard work, go back to basics.
Q. You tested different brands of racquets this year.  Right now you are using Yonex.  Does that mean you will use that in the future?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I've been using it since Miami.  I really like the racquet.
Q. Can you say anything about her game?  She's a lefty, a little bit tricky.  Wasn't the easiest thing for you today.
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, lefties are always tough.  It's a different spin.  You don't see it often.  She got a lot of balls back, made me feel that pressure kind of.
But there were like 10 things I could have done better, so...
It's more about me.
Q. What is your upcoming schedule?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Well, I'm going to decide for sure, but I'm scheduled to play Chicago, then a lot of tournaments in Asia.
Q. In preparing for your matches, do you do anything different in training to get yourself ready for the intense heat and humidity?  Also, what is your favorite cold drink?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yeah, I mean, we just try to stay as cool as possible.  I train in Florida, so kind of used to the heat.  It's always tough once you're out there.
What was the other one?
Q. What is your favorite cold drink?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: What do you mean 'cold drink'?
Q. What kind of drink that's cold do you like the best?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Coca-Cola.
Q. Are you still with Robert, is that part of the plan to move forward?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Yes, it is.
Q. It's easy to say now, but if you could go back before this match, know what you know now, anything you would have tried to do differently?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD: Move my feet more.  Take it early.  That's my game.  No matter what kind of opponent I face, I still feel like I need to do that.  Try to finish the points off better.  Serve better.  Return better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT