WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. BOUCHARD/A. Kerber
  6/3, 6/4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It's your third consecutive semifinal appearance.   What do you need to do in your game to take it one step further?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I'm excited to be in the semis.   But, of course, you know, never satisfied, so definitely want to go a step further, or as far as I can. 
I think, you know, I played some great players when I lost in the semis.   You know, you don't win every single time.   But, you know, I'm going to look forward to try to play a little bit like I played today.   I thought I was pretty solid out there and playing the right way on the grass. 
So that's going to be a key. 

Q.   The four breakpoints at 3‑All, you played them all fearlessly.   Obviously you never think about playing them any other way but that, right?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   For sure.   I try not to even think about specifically what the score is.   I try to go out on each point and play the right way. 
And, you know, when I try to go for it more usually it works in my favor, so I'm going to always try to do that every single point. 

Q.   What sense do you have of the excitement in Canada, or the following, and how do the messages get back to you about that excitement?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I mean, I don't have a huge sense of it because I'm across an ocean and in my own kind of bubble.   You know, I'm not really reading anything or caring too much about the outside, you know, talk. 
But, you know, I just hope they're proud of me.   When I go back home, I'll be excited to go back to Canada.   But besides that, I'm just really focused on my job here. 

Q.   Princess Beatrice is at Wimbledon today.   Could you tell us about your sister and what her support means to you?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   You're asking me about Beatrice but not Kate and William? 
Beatrice, she is my twin.   We are very opposite but very close at the same time.   It's interesting, because I think her, you know, normal university life, I think that's really cool because I don't do it.   She obviously thinks my job and what I do is insanely cool. 
So, you know, we keep in touch a lot and we're very close.   She's a huge supporter of me.   Same with me for her.   I get on her about her grades and things like that.

Q.   Kate and William were here today. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yes.   It was funny, when we walked out at five to 1:00 of the members' locker room, all these security guards rushed over to us and were like, Nobody move.   Move your bags to the side.   There's some Royals coming through.   We're like, okay, you know. 
So we were just waiting, and then suddenly William and Kate walk by to go on Centre Court.   I was a little bit in awe. 
That was my Royal sighting of the day.
It was funny, because we actually walked to our court late because Kate and William had to use that hallway.   So it's funny how Wimbledon does it. 

Q.   What do you like so much about England?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, my favorite thing about England is Wimbledon.   I'm always so excited to come back here. 
But, you know, it's the traditional tennis tournament.   It's so prestigious, so special.   I think most players will agree with that.   You know, it's kind of like a magical two weeks here. 
I hope I can stay a few more days. 

Q.   How would you feel about becoming English like Greg Rusedski?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I'm not sure about that one. 

Q.   Are you fiercely patriotic?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I am patriotic, for sure.   Whenever I play for my country, I'm proud to.   I haven't in a huge situation like the Olympics.   I didn't play in London.   So I'm looking forward to hopefully representing my country in Rio in 2016. 

Q.   Can you take us through a little bit how you're going to prepare for the semifinal, the thought process you're going to go through?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, we play back to back now.   That's the first time that's happened this tournament. 
I'm just going to, you know, rest for the rest of the day.   It's good, you know.   I'm always excited to play the next round, so I'm happy to play tomorrow.   Really want to just enjoy the moment as much as possible. 
You know, it's not every day you can walk out on Centre Court and play the semis of a slam.   That's the most important thing for me, is to really enjoy it.   I'm going to try, give it my best, leave everything on the court, and we'll see what happens.

Q.   What is your typical routine the day of a match?   What is important for you?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, the most important thing is getting, you know, a good hit in, practice.   I'll always, you know, leave half an hour, 45 minutes for that.   Then after, getting some food in at the right time before my match.   That's why, you know, during rain delays and times like that it's always tough to judge when you should eat or not. 
Luckily we didn't have that problem today.   So it was good to just eat a bit, rest on the couch a little bit, and warm up. 
It's important for me to get really active and sweat a bit before the match. 

Q.   Nick talked again and again about being in the moment.   We know that.   You've done something really incredible with the junior championships and then your rise in the WTA ranks.   Now so close to an incredible title.   Do you ever think to yourself, This really is pretty special? 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, tennis is something I've played for 15 years now.   I've put in a lot of hard work on the court.   So, you know, results that come for me, in the back of my mind I expected them because I've put in so much time and effort.   I have that true belief that I deserve these results when I get them. 
But at the same time, you know, I think what I do, I feel lucky to be able to travel the world and play tennis.   I truly love what I do.   I always try to enjoy it and take a moment to realize, you know, I have a special life. 
Besides that, you know, focus on the daily grind and just really try to get better every single day, because that's the most important thing.

Q.   You won a tournament at 14, but when did that belief that you were going to be a champion kick in?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, since I was young I've always been self‑confident.   I think it's something I had naturally.   And also, maybe how I was raised.   I've always believed in myself and was determined to do as well as I could in anything I did, no matter what it was, whether it was my homework or my tennis practice. 
You know, I don't know.   I mean, when I was nine I decided to be a professional tennis player.   So for me, professional tennis player is succeeding, top 20, top 10.   You know, as I started playing more and more, I really had concrete dreams of winning a Grand Slam. 
Yeah, just going on, every time I play I realize, okay, I can play with this level and play with these top girls.   Playing my first full year on the pro tour last year really showed me that, as well. 

Q.   There have been some improved statistics of play from IBM this year.   Have you used any of that in your preparation for the games?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   My coach has used them.   Doesn't go into every specific detail with me, but gives me kind of a general sense of some things going on either with me or maybe the opponent I'm about to play. 
So I think he actually really appreciates them and uses them. 

Q.   You seem so cool on the court even when you've dropped your serve.   What makes you lose your cool on and off the court?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I'm a bit of an impatient person.   So if I'm waiting for some family members for dinner, yeah, if I have to wait for someone in general I'm impatient, which is something I've been trying to work on. 
Besides that... 

Q.   Would that extend to the Royal family if they're walking past you?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I was okay to wait that time.   I just watched in awe. 
Yeah, not too often, I don't think.   It's important to not sweat the small stuff and really just, you know, take every moment, appreciate every moment.

Q.   Will that impatience extend to waiting for players on the court?   There's talk about having a stop clock at the back of the court.   Does that annoy you waiting between points?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I don't think I'm the quickest person out there, so I don't mind too much the other player's pace.   Today, Kerber, I thought she was going pretty fast.   I wouldn't have minded another five seconds. 
Besides that, you know, I think, you know, if the players obey the rules, that's enough.   That's definitely not too much time, for sure. 

Q.   You seem to love England and London.   Have you been out at all in town since you've been here? 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Not too much, no.   In tournaments, I'm really, you know, focused and I don't want to waste energy on anything and get distracted. 
My mom and brother have gone visiting quite a bit actually.   They went to Windsor Castle, the Parliament, all these things while I'm practicing ‑ or playing matches.   I don't know.   They might have missed my matches. 
I have visited everything in the past.   I've been to London many times.   But really during a tournament, I don't do that at all. 
So maybe after the tournament or, you know, next year.   I think it's something I do when I lose early, so I hope to not do it. 

Q.   When you won the junior title a couple years ago, could you have imagined being back here again so close to the main title?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Winning the junior title was still I think to this day my proudest accomplishment in my career.   It really kind of propelled me into the pro circuit.   You know, I'm very proud of that. 
I mean, I played here last year.   I won a match on Centre Court.   I made the third round.   Even last year I felt that I belonged, so I don't feel like it's a surprise that I'm doing even better this year. 
But definitely happy to have some success at Wimbledon.   I love this tournament. 

Q.   You have talked a couple times now about trying to enjoy the tournament.   When you walk out on Centre Court with God knows who in the Royal Box, sunshine, are you able to enjoy that moment at all, or is it 100% focus?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I haven't experienced that yet.   If I get the chance to, I'll let you know. 
But every time I've walked on court here‑‑ even my first match I got to play on Court1.   That's where I played the juniors final two years ago.   I definitely enjoyed it and tried to soak in the moment a little bit. 
Of course, the match starts and I really try to forget about it and focus on the match.   But it's special being on these courts, feeling the support from the crowd.   You know, it's a feeling you don't get anywhere else. 

Q.   Given your links with the Royal family... 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah because we're almost related (smiling). 

Q.   Is it an added incentive potentially playing in front of the Royal Box, maybe getting presented with the trophy by a Royal?   Any extra bonuses for you?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I definitely haven't thought that far ahead.   You know, I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   I don't know if there might be someone watching there tomorrow already. 
It's cool this extra kind of aspect of Wimbledon where there are Royals.   I think for me it's just interesting to see who shows up and things like that. 
But for sure, if I can play in front of anyone, I'll be super motivated. 

Q.   On the court it's obviously pretty simple.   You just go out there and try to win.   Off the court, players have to make decisions about how much they want to be out there, how big they want to be.   How do you make those decisions?   Who do you go to?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Sorry, I don't understand. 

Q.   In terms of endorsements, public appearances, things like that. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, for sure, especially when you have more success, you have more requests off court.   That's something I've had to deal with more this year. 
My agent, of course, handles all of that.   I talk to him and my mom regularly about decisions on things. 
During a tournament I don't really pay attention to any of that stuff really.   More after tournaments or in training weeks we really have more in‑depth conversations about it, because I really want to try to stay focused in the tournament and not have any distractions.

Q.   You're playing Simona Halep, and you played once before.   That at Indian Wells on hard court.   You lost in three sets.   What did you learn about that match and what do you think about your chances tomorrow?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   We had a good match at Indian Wells.   I felt like I had chances, was really close, and just lost that one. 
I learned, you know, a little bit about her game.   I think she's playing really well.   I think she can change direction really well on the court. 
So I'm going to be ready for that.   You know, really just try to go for it and take my chances.   You know, leave it all out on the court.   It's the semis, so I'm going to expect the toughest match ever. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT