WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/A. Cornet
  7/6, 7/5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You were always behind a bit in the first set, but there was always the feeling you definitely weren't going away.   Did you sense she felt that, too?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, she served first.   I don't think there was a break of serve in the first set.   It was really just kind of a holding serve the whole first set.   
I guess that's why I was behind all the time.   So for me it was important to not think I was behind.   I was just focused on my serve, you know, trying to get some good returns in.   
You know, we had a tough tiebreak at the end of the set.   I'm proud that, you know, I kind of stayed in and, yeah, even though I was kind of playing catch‑up, I always felt right there, you know, trying to put pressure all the time.   
   
 Q.   Genie's Army threw a couple of toys at you.   Have you had any thrown over to you recently?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   No, I haven't.   I think it's because there's a rule that you're not allowed to throw anything on the court at Wimbledon.   I'm sure that's a rule and that's why I haven't received any.  
   
 Q.   Down 4‑2 in the second set, then 5‑3, can you give us a little bit of an idea as to the process you went through to gather yourself to come back?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I've been in situations like that before, so I had full belief and confidence in myself that, you know, I wasn't out.   The second set wasn't over yet.   
I just tried to focus on my serve at 5‑3.   I played some good points at 5‑4.   
I think basically, you know, I was able to step up on the important moments.   
   
 Q.   What was your level of play today?   Do you feel it's the best match you played since the start of Roland Garros?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think we played some good tennis today.   You know, we had some tough points.   She has good wheels.   So I had to really try and finish off the point.   
You know, I think it made for some really tough, physical points.   So that's definitely the most physical match I've played I think this tournament.   
But I'm proud that I really, really fought till the end.   She's a good fighter, too.   We were really just battling.   
   
 Q.   Do you consider yourself someone who can compartmentalize pretty well?   We see you focus in point to point on the court, and then you come in here wearing a kimono.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think, you know, my mental side of tennis has improved over the last few years.   I think tennis is very mental, so that's an important part of it.   
Yeah, on the court I really try to have like blinders on and really focus throughout the whole match.   
But off the court, of course, it's fun.   That was not planned.   I just received it from the Japanese TV crew.   They were very nice.   
But, you know, life is short, so have fun.  
   
 Q.   As far as throwing things on the court, from a country where there's a tradition of throwing things on the court, did that offend you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Not receiving things?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   No, it doesn't offend me.   It's kind of a bonus type thing if I get it.   I don't think it happens very often in tennis.   The crazy Genie Army from Australia started it.   I've received it at most tournaments since.   But Wimbledon is very proper, so, you know...   
   
 Q.   We know about your family's interest in the Royal family.   The Countess of Wessex and a number of other Royals were in the box.   Have you played for Royals before?   How does it feel?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   First off, I should say parental interest, probably mostly mother.   She named us, so I wasn't really aware of what was going on at that time (smiling).   
I did not know who was in the box.   I will get that information later for sure.   
But I played on Centre Court last year.   I was lucky enough to do that.   Kate Middleton's parents were watching us then.   That was really exciting.   
I think when I went in the Royal Box when I won the juniors, I think the Duke of Kent presented me the trophy.   Yes, that's correct.   So I've had a few amazing moments like that.   
Of course, to play on Centre Court at Wimbledon, it's the temple of tennis.   So a very special moment walking on the court.  
   
 Q.   Of course at this moment we don't know who your next opponent will be.   I'll ask you about each one separately.   If you do face Sharapova, what do you think is the biggest challenge of playing against her?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think she's a great player.   She, you know, tries to be aggressive like I try to be aggressive as well.   So I think, you know, I'm going to go in and try to battle and go for my shots.   We had a tough match recently at the French Open.   But that's the past.   So it's a new match.   If I were to play her, I would just be very excited and really try to go for it.   
Kerber I played at the French as well.   I played both opponents recently.   Of course with her she's a lefty so you keep that in mind with tactics.   I played well last time against her because I was really trying to go for it.   Whenever I had an opening, I would really go for it.   I would keep my basic game against both players.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned you improved your mental strength over the last year or two.   Have you done anything specific for that?   Do you have a mental coach?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I'm not going to give away my secrets.   
The biggest thing I thought when I played my first full year on the tour last year was, you know, it was the first year I didn't play juniors.   I really felt a difference in the level of, you know, how tough it was with my opponents.   
So week in, week out, I was playing girls top 100, top 50, sometimes really good ones.   I just saw, you know, how tough it was to do that all year long.   I played a lot of tournaments last year.   
I think just having that experience, just playing week in, week out against, you know, a different level than what I was used to, really just opened my eyes to, Okay, this is what it's like.   I think just by playing so many matches, big matches for me at the time, helped me.  
   
 Q.   You don't have a mental coach or do that kind of thing?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, my tennis coach, Nick, you know, helps me with all aspects of the game.   We kind of go over every part of it.   He helps me with all areas.   
   
 Q.   What do you feel you've learnt most about yourself during this season from Australia to now?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I've learned a lot.   I think the main thing is the confidence I've kind of added since the beginning of the year.   I believe in myself.   Every match I play, I believe I can win.   You know, I've proved to myself I can play on the big stage as well.   I've played on center courts of most of the slams, big moments, big matches.   I'm proud of the way I can handle it out there.   
So I think that's an important thing in tennis because, you know, you want to get to those big moments in matches.  
   
 Q.   You're named after a princess.   Do you ever have princess‑like tendencies?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What are they?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   You can ask my coach or my parents or anyone that I can be a princess (laughter).   
I mean, they're not horrible.   But I can be moody in the morning.   I'm not so much of a morning person.   My fitness trainer carries my tennis bag around.   But that's so I don't get tired because I want to save all my energy for the match.   
You know, I don't know.   I mean, I can demand a few things once in a while, but I do it with love (smiling).   
   
 Q.   The Big Bang Theory is such a wonderful show.   What do you love about it?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's my favorite show.   It's a comedy, you know.   For me, so many unexpected things, you just burst out laughing.   It's a nice way to relax and have a good time.   
It's less stressful to watch than, say, like a movie on a war or something.   It's pretty relaxing, which I love.   Jim Parsons' character Sheldon is my favorite character.   He's so nerdy.   I love the character.   He's so smart and set in his ways.   I think the writing of the show is pretty spectacular.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a little bit a nerd in you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I do have a little bit of that in me.   When I was in school, I really enjoyed school.   My favorite class was math class.   I was very determined to try to get 100% on all my math tests.   I think that kind of self‑discipline translates to tennis.   
But, you know, I would have loved to go to school and go to university and things like that.   Maybe I'll do that when I'm 30 and just chill with the 20‑year‑olds.  
   
 Q.   Whether it's Sharapova or Kerber, it's grass this times as opposed to clay.   How do you think that plays into playing either one of them?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think it changes it a little bit.   No matter who I play, though, they'll definitely be trying to go for it.   I'll be doing the same.   
I think it's important for me to try to take it really early and try to finish the points a little bit better than I finished them today probably would be helpful.   
   
 Q.   The delay today was considerably shorter than we experienced on Saturday.   Any effect at all?   And tomorrow is Canada Day.   Any idea how you'll mark it?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, well, I thought they would put the roof up right away, but they kind of waited I think to see.   I'm happy I got the experience of playing under the famous roof.   I follow the roof on Twitter, and he's kind of funny.   I hope he's proud of how I played today.   He was looking down.   Hopefully he enjoyed the match.   
Yeah, you know, in tournaments, you kind of don't even think about dates and days and all those things.   It kind of all turns into one.   I did not realize it was Canada Day tomorrow.   That's cool.   
I will wish all my fellow Canadians, Happy Canada Day.   If I do play tomorrow, which I think I do, I will try to make the Canadians proud.  
   
 Q.   You say it's your mother that is a bit of a Royal family nut.   Why is she?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   She's kind of like a closet Royalist.   I don't know.   
They're very nice names.   My younger sister is Charlotte.   My younger brother is William, like Prince William.   I think they're all very nice names that can last through generations and can fit for young people and old people, you know.   
I don't know.   I mean, you'd have to ask her really.   She's over there.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of Canada Day, what does it mean to you to advance here like no player has before from Canada?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   No Canadian has?   
   
 Q.   Not to the quarterfinals in the Open era.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   That's cool.   I didn't know that.   Another little historic thing for Canada.   That's cool.   I hope I can go further.   That's all I have to say.   
   
 Q.   What about you and Milos, what sort of feeling do you think you're giving the country with your advances here?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I hope we're making people back home proud and inspiring kids to play.   I think tennis has grown in the past few years.   The popularity has grown.   
To be a part of that is very special for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT