WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/S. Soler‑Espinosa
  7/5, 6/1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   There's a slight difference between the way you started the match and finished the match.   Would you agree with that?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I would.   But even though it was a little close in the first set, I still felt I was, you know, very close to playing well.   So I wasn't too worried.   I knew it would click after, you know, a few points or games, however long it took.   
So I'm happy that it did finally.   My shots were a lot freer in the second.  
   
 Q.   Can you figure out what it is inside you that enables you to finally click?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Of course the goal is to always start as well as I can.   Sometimes that doesn't happen and you have to kind of figure a way out of it.   
You know, I was just really trying to go for my shots.   I think she got a lot of balls back and would hit a few good slices.   It just took me a little bit of time to get used to that.   Once I did, I was ready for it and was able to move forward on her balls.   
It just took a little bit of time but I'm happy I adapted and really kind of moved forward without looking back in the second.   
   
 Q.   You felt that you played better than the first match?   How would you assess your level of play compared to the first match?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think I did play a little bit better, so I'm happy that it's improving.   You know, I think it was important for me to try to close out some points at the net when I could because she was getting a few balls back, to really go for my shots a little bit more.   
You know, when I was stepping in and being aggressive I felt really in control.   That's always my goal.   
   
 Q.   When you have an error, you almost always stop at the baseline, put your hands on your hips, look down.   Is that an attempt to collect yourself and move on or give yourself a talking to and then moving on?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I always try to learn from what mistake I made and as quickly as possible forget about it, which is much easier said than done.   
Sometimes it lingers for a few points, but that's what I'm really trying to work on, is learn from it, move on from it right away.   Tennis players, we need to have short‑term memory.   I'm always striving towards that.   
I'm trying to do that a little less.   You'll see less hands on the hips from now on.  
   
 Q.   Has it been a particular source of pride that you've been able to take your strengths to each surface now?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think I like all the surfaces.   You know, I don't feel like I can't perform on any of them, which is important, seeing as we change surfaces throughout the year.   
At the end of the day I always say to myself, You know what, regardless of the surface, you still have to go play how you want to play.   Anything can happen on any surface.   Not try to make it too dependent on a surface because it's still about me against my opponent.   That's how I see it.   
So surface is important, but I don't see it as a huge thing.  
   
 Q.   Would you say adjustments that you make are very subtle, then, from surface to surface?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I would say so, exactly.   I always try to keep my basic idea of what I want to do on the court.   It's pretty similar from surface to surface.   I change a few things.   But I still want to go out there and go for it and play the tennis I know I can play.   
   
 Q.   You meet Petkovic in the next round.   You had a heartbreaking match against her in Charleston.   What do you think about that match, being on grass?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, it's a rematch of Charleston.   I'm looking forward to it.   I know she's a really good fighter.   I've lost to her a few times now.   I'm definitely going to be really motivated, just try to play my tennis, really try to take it to her.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised by the court selection?   Do you feel you've become more popular here at Wimbledon?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I hope so.   You know, with good results you hope to have more fans and things like that.   I feel that from this year.   
In terms of the courts, yesterday they put Murray on Court1 and Dimitrov on Centre Court.   They kind of mix it up.   It's out of my control, so I don't worry about it.   
I love the court.   I love all the courts at Wimbledon.   I won't complain.   They can put me on Court 19 and I'll be happy.  
   
 Q.   What do you remember of playing Petkovic at the Rogers Cup?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   That was a long time ago.   
I remember it being a really big occasion for me at the time.   It was my first wild card into the main draw at the Rogers Cup.   It was a big deal for me.   
I remember it was really close at the beginning.   I stayed with her.   In the end she kind of overpowered me a bit.   
But I learned a lot from that match.   I think that's when she was playing really well.   She was 10 in the world.   
We've both come a long ways since then.   I'm not going to think about that match or even the one in Charleston.   It's a new match on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   How much potential do you think you have to become a better grass court player as the years go on?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, so I don't, you know, want to change too much from surface to surface.   But I do like grass a little bit more I think.   When I'm not slipping and falling, I enjoy it.   
I think it suits my game and it rewards a player who takes it early and tries to move forward.   Every time I go to the net, I have a pretty good ratio of success.   I'm trying to do that more and more.   I think that will, you know, help me perform well on grass over the years.   
   
 Q.   Does it make much of a difference to you that the crowds, you might as well be in church compared to Australia with the chants?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   For the Australians, they still have their crazy Aussies.   I thought they would turn into my Genie Army, but that didn't happen (smiling).   
I think it's good to appreciate the difference.   At Wimbledon they're very polite.   I don't know, they respect the sport of tennis so much.   It's very classy.   I think it's a nice change‑up.   
   
 Q.   Any issues with slipping?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   No issues.   The tape was more of a hindrance than helping, so I ripped it off.   Actually my knee didn't hurt at all.   I don't think I'll tape it from now on.   
Yeah, it was just kind of a preventive thing to make sure it didn't get worse.   But it feels good.   
   
 Q.   Canadian tennis has seemed to have come on in the last few years.   What do you put that down to?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Luck.   I think, yeah, a few of us have done well around the same time.   I think that's a happy coincidence.   For example, me or Milos and Vasek, we've come from completely backgrounds, have succeeded in completely different ways.   
I wouldn't pinpoint a specific common fact.   But I think it's a good thing.   It's good timing.   I think because of that the popularity has grown in Canada.   You know, I hope I can help to continue to make it grow.   
   
 Q.   How hard was it to wait?   How was everything in terms of waiting and waiting?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It was really kind of a crazy day.   I've never been put in a situation like this because I basically had to deal with two fifth setters.   It was super weird.   
I warmed up I don't even know how many times waiting for it.   
But, you know, that's the sport.   That's part of what makes tennis tough, is the scheduling.   It's not like hockey or basketball where in three months they know what city, what time they're going to play.   
With us, anything goes because there's no time limit, which is a great thing for tennis.   I'm not going to complain.   
The men's fifth setters, I'm just happy it wasn't like an Isner/Mahut thing.   Both matches had that possibility.   It just became comical in the end, because I know Gasquet had like 10 match points.   I was sitting there watching him like, C'mon, man.   
That's how it goes.   It makes for good stories after.   
   
 Q.   Did you watch the Tsonga match as well?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I started warming up as soon as that match went on.   You never know, it could have been two games.   Warming up, watching the points, kind of constantly staying warm.   When it was getting close, more warm.   When it was a hold, kind of relax for a few points.   Kind of an on‑and‑off thing.   
Not really stressed because we're at Wimbledon, but that's how it goes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT