ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. BOUCHARD/C. Suarez Navarro
      7‑6, 2‑6, 7‑5

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   5‑2 down in the first set, 4‑1 down in the third set.   Aside from the victory itself, what must be really pleasing is the way you managed to fight back in this match twice. 
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah.   That's what I try to do on the court.   At the end of the day, whether I win or lose, I want to at least leave it all there and try and at least battle. 
    I'm proud of the way I did that in both the first and third.
    She's a good‑‑ a great player and a really good clay courter, as well.   I knew it was a tough battle, and that's exactly what it was today.
    I'm just proud of the way I stayed in there.

Q.   Did you surprise even yourself with the comeback in the third?   And do you think the fact that the crowd cheered for you a lot, did it help?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I wouldn't say I surprised myself, no.   I have come back in matches before.   You know, it works both ways.   You know, tennis can be like that, a bit up and down.
    I just really tried to forget about, you know, what the score was or anything and just tried to play the right way, you know. 
    Once I started going for my shots a little bit more it started working better.   I mean, the crowd was really good, though.   They definitely ‑‑I definitely felt their support.   The third set it was just a really cool atmosphere I think for both of us to be playing like that. 
    The quarters of a slam, that's a great moment and a great moment to feel that crowd presence, as well.

Q.   Did you show that you were human when you double‑faulted on one of the match points?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   (Smiling).   I show I'm human all the time.   Yeah, you know, it's one of those things.   I didn't really worry about it.   I think that's the most important thing.   I didn't see it as a big deal, and I just regrouped for the next point, which allowed me to just give me a chance to get in a position to have a match point again.
    Even on the second match point I missed a ball.   But I was trying to go for it, so I didn't worry too much, either.
    I think that was a bit‑‑ the theme the whole match:   even if I was down 5‑2 or 4‑1 in the third, not to worry too much, keep going, keep going, keep going, and it paid off in the end.

Q.   A lot of people this year have referred to you as the next Maria Sharapova.   What are the positives and negatives for you of that title?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's exactly that.   I think a bit of positives and negatives.   Of course she's a great champion, so to be seen as the next of someone who has won four slams and has been No. 1 in the world, it's a compliment.
    But at the same time, of course I'm my own person and I just want to be myself on the court, and you know, try and achieve what I want to achieve and just be seen as that.

Q.   Regarding Sharapova, how are your relations with her on the tour?   And also, you said that you started playing tennis when you saw her winning at Wimbledon, but is that everything in the past obviously since last year?   Because now you're at that place and you can win slams.   Like is there still that childhood memory that you have to not think because now it's different?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, first, I mean, you know, we're not friends, so there is that.   Yeah, of course as a child I looked up to her and I remember watching her in the finals of Wimbledon and, you know, thought what she was doing was so cool and I wanted to do the same thing.
    For sure I respect her.   But now, you know, we're in the semis of a Grand Slam, so I'm going to respect her but not put her too high on a pedestal and really just battle.   That's what it's going to be. 
    I will leave everything on court and just focus on myself and try my best to win.

Q.   Can you recall the very first time you met Maria, whether it was off court or on court?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I have a picture with her when I was I think seven or eight years old.   I guess that would be the first time.   I think it was in Miami. 
    Yeah, I mean, you know, I looked up to her for sure.

Q.   Were you there as a fan then, or was that a tennis event?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, yeah, I was there watching.   I wasn't playing in Miami at seven (smiling). 

Q.   You looked quite emotional when you won the match.   Maybe more emotional than when you made the semis in Australia.   Is that because the match was that close, or is any other explanation?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, for me it was such a physical and emotional battle.   You know, I was down.   I was always coming back and fighting and trying and really kind of a grind on clay.
    I was just so proud of myself that I fought through it and managed to play well in the third and pull out the win.
    You know, it was really, really tough.   You know, after over two hours of battling out there, I was just so proud of myself and just excited, yeah.

Q.   Your mental strength is clearly one of your big assets.   Same for Maria.   I just wonder when you watched her, was that one of the things you took from the way that she played?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I mean, first I noticed like her cute dresses and things like that when I was young (smiling.)
    But of course, you know, achieving what she has she of course is very strong mentally.   It is one of her strengths, I think.   I'm going to be ready for another battle in two days.   You know, the semis of a Grand Slam, that's what you have to expect. 
    I'm just looking forward to the challenge.

Q.   You seem to take Suarez Navarro's serve very, very early.   You were hitting the ball extremely early at some points.   I was wondering if that was a strategy to unsettle her.   And were you surprised by Fabrice Santoro's selfie request?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think in the first set I wasn't stepping in on the return, and I kind of realized that in the middle of the match maybe I should try to be a bit more aggressive on it, like I was in my previous match, actually.
    I kind of adjusted mid‑match, I think.   I think it helped me in that way.   You know, I didn't feel like I was serving great, so I wanted to put more pressure on the return.
    And, well, I was surprised by the request, yes.   I guess he's on social media and stuff, too.   I didn't know I was like a famous for my selfies, but that was really cool.   So different, you know.   I love those things.
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   You're the first Canadian in semis in Melbourne, first in semis as a Canadian here in Paris.   How much does that mean?   Is it important for you because you represent Canada?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's special for me.   I'm creating history, in a way.   It's always special.   I'm proud to write this piece of history, the history of tennis for Canadian players.
    Someone threw this animal to me.   I'm very happy I have received some, but for two or three matches I have not received anything from the crowd. 
    I was wondering where my fans were, and they're still here with me.

Q.   Tactically did you play too often on her backhand and not enough on her forehand, which was weaker for her?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I think I really wanted to put pressure on her.   I think that maybe at the beginning I served too often on her backhand.   She has good shots on her backhand and forehand, but she has a lot of confidence on her backhand. 
    Therefore, during the third set it was a mental battle.   But also, I think I started playing more on her forehand.   That's true.
    But generally, I really wanted to move forward in the match, because she can return lots of points, and it's very important for me to finish these points.

Q.   Now, next round you're going to play against Maria Sharapova, and people compare you quite often to her. 
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's very exciting for me to play against such a champion.   It's going to be a good battle on the court.   I think that this is what I should expect in a Grand Slam semifinal, to play against such players. 
    She was No. 1 in the world and she's won several Grand Slams, so it's going to be a great experience for me.
    You know, I will try and put out my best type of tennis.   I'll put up a good fight on the court, and we'll see what happens.

Q.   The crowd was here to support you during the match.   Would you say that during Sharapova they will do the same?   That is, you have conquered the public against Sharapova, who is very popular here?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I don't know.   I have no idea.   We'll see during the match.   But I think that the atmosphere is going to be very positive.   Even though they might support her, that's okay.
    I'll do my best and play my best.

Q.   What are the weaknesses and strengths of Sharapova, according to you?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I think she does many good things on the court.   She has very powerful shots.   I'll be ready for that.
    Also, mentally she's strong.   But I think that I have a good serve and good shots, as well.   I feel really good and confident now.   I have played many matches, you know. 
    If you look at the past two weeks on clay as well I played a lot, so I will try to attack as much as I can and play my game.
    This is what I try to do on the court.   This is when I really play well.

Q.   You have clear memories of the moment when you were seven or eight?   I think you said that in English.   Could you tell us more about this with Maria? 
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yes.   I was watching the Miami tournament and a photo was taken of her and me when I was seven or eight.
    And then after this, I remember when she won Wimbledon I was watching her on TV, and I thought, Wow, what she's doing is cool.   I want to do the same.
    I was playing tennis already at the time.   You know, she was a source of inspiration for me at the time, and therefore, she was an idol for me when I was younger.
    But then now we have reached semifinals of a Grand Slam.   Now she's a tennis player.   I respect her.   But I will do my best during the match.

Q.   Now you've reached semis of a Grand Slam after Australia.   It's a different surface.   It's clay.   What would you say about this? 
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   My objective is to do like Roger.   You know, I'd like to play many semis.   I have only reached two, but he's reached many semis.   No, no, I'm kidding.   I'm happy and proud because I have played really well in the most important tournaments so far. 
    I'm proud of this, but I will continue.   I want to do better than what I did in Australia. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT