ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. BOUCHARD/J. Larsson 
      7‑5, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Are you very happy about your performance?   Especially in the first set there were a lot of unforced errors. 
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think I started a little slow.   There was kind of a long wait for my match, and I was just a bit, I don't know, rusty on the court.   I was still, you know, fine.   I didn't, you know, worry or anything on the court. 
    I still had a lot of confidence in myself just to get my groove, you know, and after a few games I started playing much better and really got into the match.
    You know, the whole match I felt very comfortable and confident.   But, you know, she plays well, and especially on clay. 
    So it was it was definitely tough.

Q.   How much did you enjoy playing on that court?   It's kind of intimate and sort of historic court here. 
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I like that court.   I played on it once doubles juniors and had a horrible match on it, so I have good memories on it.   I changed those memories.   It's definitely a cool court, and the fact that people can sit close and then also stand above is unique.
    You know, all the courts are pretty, you know, like beautiful here, and that one is, as well.

Q.   Can you tell us a little bit what went through your mind in the end of the first set where she was two points away from winning the set and you had a couple of good points and it clicked.   What went through your mind?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, after the first few games where I wasn't‑‑ you know, I felt a little bit out of it.   Once I started, you know, getting my groove a little bit more I felt confident the whole time and.
    You know, I didn't worry about the score or that she was two points away.   I didn't even know she was two points away. I was just really focused in the moment.   Just trying to impose my game. 
    She hits a bit with a bit more spin, and, you know, the ball was really coming at me.   So I had to prepare early and really try to step in or else she would be able to take control.
    I felt once I got my rhythm a little bit more, started moving my feet a bit more, I was playing better, and, you know, just kind of felt really good throughout the match.

Q.   How important is it to get those positive feedback from your team when things aren't going really smoothly as you want to be?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think it's important, you know.   They're there to support me.   If ever I look over, it's always nice to see some encouragement. 
    But at the end of the day, I know it's me alone on the court and they can't hit the ball for me.   I don't look over that much.     Just, you know, once in a while maybe for support.
    But besides that, I know I'm alone on the court and I have to kind of figure out the problem myself.

Q.   Did it help you at all that you played pretty poorly in the first set last match and came back and played really well?   Did that settle you down a bit today when things weren't going so well in the first set knowing you could come back?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think so.   And I think matches in the past where I have come back‑‑ you know, I always have the belief that I can come back in a match no matter what the score is.   I just keep trying to fight, and I know I'll at least give myself a chance.
    Today, even though I was down 5‑3, I felt comfortable on the court.   I was just trying to focus on my serve, first of all, and focus on every point on the return game, and came up with a bit better tennis than the beginning of the first set.
    Throughout the whole match I felt pretty good with my game.

Q.   How do you approach the second week?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Does playing on Sunday count as the second week?   (Smiling).   Yeah?   Okay.
    Then, yes.   I wasn't sure.   Well, I'll take it.   I keep the same mentality, you know.   It's really important for me to just focus one match at a time. 
    I have a rest day tomorrow, and just really excited to have another chance to play at Roland Garros.   This is such an amazing tournament. 
    I'm just trying to enjoy every moment, believe in myself, and I know that I have a chance.   Every time I walk on the court I have a chance to win.
    I think it's going to be important to try to start strong in my next match, no matter what.

Q.   You never played Pennetta, if I'm not mistaken ‑‑oh, I'm sorry. 

Q.   Kerber. 
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I played her at the US Open last year.   I lost in three sets.

Q.   A bit unrelated, but I was wondering if you could talk about your pal, Taylor Townsend, what that she's done here this week. 
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I was really happy for her.   I saw her yesterday we were practicing off‑site.   I gave her a hug, I said, Good job.   I think her game is really interesting and she really goes for it, and it's really kind of inspiring to see she's fearless and comes up to the net. 
    I love her game style.   I have so much fun playing doubles with her, and I think it's time for us to kind of get back on the doubles court together.

Q.   How would you describe the clay here?   What makes it special, do you think?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   The clay? 

Q.   Yeah. 
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I think they're kind of fast clay courts, but I'm not the best judge of these things.
    I mean, it's red clay.   That's about it (smiling). 
    I don't really notice or pay attention to much difference.   I know when it rains it gets a bit slower.   Yeah. 
    But I think they are a bit faster than normal, a bit faster than Germany, as well, which I like.

Q.   Have you been following any other matches recently, last hour or so, involving a compatriot?
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I was stretching and showering and stuff, but I did glance at the score.   They are in the fifth set now. 

Q.   Up a break in the fifth.
    EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   If we don't hear the French crowd cheering, that means he's doing a good job, right?   That's what I figured.   We were actually playing pretty close, because the court is right next to me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT