BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/S. Errani
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You got two today.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I got two last time, as well.  
   
 Q.   You're doing pretty well.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, they get cuter and cuter.   Look at this one.   He has a turtleneck sweater with racquets on it.   It's one of my favorites so far.  
   
 Q.   What is the other one?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I don't know.   It came in a plastic bag, so...   
I think it's part of the ‑‑it's one of the Hello Kitty characters.   It's like one of her friends.   That's okay, too (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Seems like you did exactly what you said you wanted to do, which is to move in and finish the points.   Is that how you felt out there?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, exactly.   With her, she likes to go crosscourt as well, and I really wanted to take it down the line.   I think I was able to do that, and it was just really important to try and finish the points because she always gets that extra ball back.   
She did a few times some good passing shots, but I just knew I had to keep moving forward and really try to finish it.   
   
 Q.   Beating a top‑10 player, is it something you expect yourself to do now?   Seems like a pretty comfortable, almost routine sort of match for you in a lot of ways?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think I should expect this from myself.   Every time I go on the court I think I can win.   
I'm happy with what I did today, and I'm just going to look forward to my next match and another top‑10 player.   I'm really excited.  
   
 Q.   What do you know about Halep?   She's like you, been rising really fast.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I just hear about her title wins all the time.   She's definitely improved a lot.   I think she's a really good, solid player.   I'm excited to play her.   I'm looking forward to playing against her game and seeing what it's like and, you know, still focusing on my game and doing what I need to do.  
   
 Q.   Saviano, Nick Saviano has a long history in the game as a player, American coach, working with many different players.   Could you take a moment and say what's special about the guy, what the dynamic is between the two of you.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah.   Well, I have known Nick since I was 12 years old.   We have a good relationship.   I have known him a while.  
I think he's a really great coach.   He's really good on the court technically.   When I was younger I was working with him on all my strokes, forehand, backhand, serve, and I think he helped me improve a lot with those.  
He's also really good at the mental aspect, which is a huge part of the game.   We work on things, on focusing on the court, on staying in the moment, one point at a time, things like that that help me during my matches.   
I just think he's very wise.   You know, he knows a lot about the game, and I think he's very, very smart.  
   
 Q.   Can you compare your form now to Australia?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah.   I think it's, I don't know, similar, I'd say.   I think I have improved in a few areas, as well.   I had a few weeks of training after Australia and between some of the tournaments I played, so I think I have improved on my serve a little bit.  
And, you know, that's the goal, is to always keep improving.   Trying to keep my level up and look forward to playing on Tuesday.  
   
 Q.   Serve placement, general control, what is it?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think my first serve I think I'm feeling pretty confident it.   I can place it pretty well, and, you know, just try to put pressure on her.   That's what I did today, I think, even with my serve, trying to just get the first ball ‑‑ to be aggressive from the beginning.   Because she can‑‑ you know, if I let her kind of step in she was able to dictate the point.   
It was a point to really be in control from the beginning.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn from your Justin Bieber moment or was there a fallout?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think there was a lot of fallout from that.   If they would have asked me the question I would have answered the same answer.   I think it's all in good fun.   If the fans are curious about stuff like that, that's fine (smiling).   
I think it's interesting to ask different questions than always just tennis questions.   It's fun for me too to answer different answers.   I always get asked about on‑court stuff, and off court questions are entertaining.  
   
 Q.   I have another off‑court question.   With all the talk in Australia about Genie's Army, some said, Wait a second, genies can't have armies.   What's your position on that?   Do you think genies do have armies or not really?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   That's a kind of weird, deep question.  
   
 Q.   It's a trick question.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah.   Well, I think genies can have armies, and I do have some in various cities in the world.   Yeah, that's my answer.   I think they have been amazing.  
Just to see some kind of continuation of the fan support, all the tournaments I have been at since then have been, you know, pretty special.   I feel special.  
   
 Q.   You need to get some red Sharpies for those kids who were there for your first match because they got the G and E, second E, then after that, it was nothing?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, it was G and then e‑n‑i‑e, no?   
   
 Q.   Middle guy was an N but they had run out of marker by then.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Okay.  
   
 Q.   The question I have, what's the difference between when Nick's around and when he's not?   Obviously you have had great results when he's been there.   Do you have a sales pitch planned to try to get him with you more this year?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, for him to travel a little bit this year is already a huge step for him.   He doesn't travel all that much.   I'm really happy he's agreed to travel with me more this year.   
And for sure I think there is‑‑ you know, he helps more when he's here.   You know, I can talk to him more and he can be on the court with me and it does have a positive impact.  
But when he's not there, we speak on the phone every single day.   I did that with him last year, as well.   It helped me, even though he wasn't there.   
I mean, of course he helps more when he's here, but I think he still has a good impact even from across the world.   
Yeah, so it's not maybe, you know, based on whether he's there or not, but of course I love him to be here all the time.  
   
 Q.   For your off‑court commitment, you have had a couple of media tours you had to do.   How much preparation do you have to do for that compared to what you'd be doing on the court?   Do you treat it with the same professional sort of mentality?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I try to, yeah, before, you know, every media event definitely need to know, you know, what it's about and then just prepare, as, yeah, kind of in a way before a match, you know, just to know how the event is going to go on and have my talking points and things like that and just be ready.  
Usually excited because it's usually been fun events.   I went to Singapore for a day and I just had a blast the whole day.   We had a lot of requirements to do that day, but it was just so fun.  
So I take it kind of as a positive side of the job.   It's different and it's fun.   It's just different from practice.   It kind of just makes it fun.  
   
 Q.   So the Justin Bieber thing went over my head.   In terms of Canada, second to get to the Australian semis and first win at Wimbledon juniors.   Do you feel like you're carrying the flag in some way?   There is some certain rally cap thing you got going with Canada, feeling the pride of being one of the first or if not "the" first?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, for sure.   I think my win at Wimbledon, the juniors, was a proud win for me to win the title for myself, and then also I made history in Canada.   That was special.  
You know, I feel a lot of support from Canada.   So I'm always proud to play for my country and just, yeah, try to hopefully make them proud.  
   
 Q.   A lot happens to a player when they first go deep in a tournament.   Singapore, what's the most interesting or fun thing you have experience you have had since Australia?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Most entertaining thing I have done on tour since then has definitely been in Acapulco when I went on the helicopter ride and then the yacht ride and got to play on water.   That is really crazy.   
That was probably ‑ I mean for sure ‑ the most fun I have had as an activity on tour.  
It was unbelievable and organized so well.   It was the first time I went in a helicopter, as well, and the doors were open.   
It was really crazy, but it was just so fun.   Grigor and I had a blast.   Just to make history of it by playing on water was so unique, as well.   The tournament did a great job with that.  
   
 Q.   And activity off tour?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, what have I done exciting off tour?   I don't know.   I'm always on tour.   I will have to think about that one.   
Whenever I'm, you know, with my family and friends I'm pretty normal off the court, so nothing too crazy.   But, you know, concerts, things like that.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned going to Singapore.   Do you think qualifying there this year is a realistic goal?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think it's a tough goal, for sure.   It's a ranking goal.   It's top 8.   You know, it's not something specific that's at the forefront of my mind because I don't really want to focus on those things.   But obviously to have the chance to go would be amazing.   I went and it's a beautiful place.  
I'd love to, but, you know, it's not my main focus.   I'm just focused on my tennis and performing, and if I perform really well, well, then, I'll get to go.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT