BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 7, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/S. Peng
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was the upshot of finishing with Australia and the hype around what you achieved over there?   How long did it take you to come down from Cloud 9?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I was happy with how I did, but I was still disappointed, because at the end of the day I lost in the semis.   It's not like I won the title.  
So, you know, I was proud, but definitely was ‑ just I got back to training pretty soon after and was working on a few things right away.   I just tried to go back to normal as soon as possible, which is what I did, you know, and just have to deal with a few more things.   
It's part of the job, and I'm happy to take it.  
   
 Q.   The point really is the confidence something like that would give you as you look ahead to this year.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, for sure.   It showed me I belong, you know, at the top level of the game and I can play on big stadiums and really count on my game when I need to in big matches on big courts.  
You know, I love playing in front of a crowd and things like that.   So, you know, just gave me confidence that I can progress far in a big tournament, and, you know, I want to do even better at the next one.  
   
 Q.   How hard was it, the turnaround from Fed Cup and having to fly all the way to the Middle East?   It was a tough swing for you.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Very tough, and I think it's a decision I would probably make differently in the future.   It was one of those things.   
But I always love playing, so I just wanted to go play and try.   You never know.   I felt like I was playing well.   If I could get on a good roll, you never know.  
But it was definitely tough obviously with the flight and the time difference and things like that.   Those are not excuses.   I still lost.   I lost to good players.   They can play well on good days.   It was good.   It showed me I still have a lot to improve.  
I put my head down, got back to work, and I'm trying to do a different kind of tournament this week (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Three service return winners in the first game.   Must make you feel good in terms of getting into the match.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, yeah.   I thought you meant like when they say service winners, like when the person is serving and they kind of return it.   
Yeah, I mean, that was my goal, to be really aggressive, and I knew I could do it on her serve, as well.   I wanted to do it right from the beginning, so I think I got my message of being aggressive across.   
I'm happy I was able to continue that way as well.   And even with my serve I think I did well kind of controlling the points right away.  
   
 Q.   What's your fastest serve ever?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   Has anything surprised you since the Australian Open?   Like something you read or...   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I try not to read things and stuff like that (smiling).   
But, I mean, when I went back to Montreal obviously the attention was a lot crazier.   Just getting recognized a lot and stuff.   It's nice.   People just say mostly like, We're proud of you and, Good luck and, Congrats.   
It's just nice to hear that support, and happy to see some kind of continuation of some traditions everywhere I go.   It's really cool.  
   
 Q.   On that point, what have you done with the menagerie of Australian stuff?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I have made a room just for them (Laughter.)   No, I don't know.   They are probably still in my suitcase somewhere.   I haven't really unpacked.  
I don't know.   I'm going to do something.   I will wait until I collect a few more.   Hopefully I can still collect a few more, and then we will see.   It's nice to see it continuing.   
I don't know if these are like American animals or what, but the Australian ones are special because they were Australian animals.   Now it's just a free for all.   
In Mexico I got four Angry Birds (smiling), so you never know.   
   
 Q.   What are the conditions like in terms of your game?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Here?  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   Especially going into playing Errani now.   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I think the hard courts are a little bit slow I think.   I played in Acapulco last week and I think they were a bit slower.   I think they were pretty slow hard courts.   
I like it coming here, and I think the ball travels a bit faster in the air, as well.   I think it's a good thing for me, who likes being aggressive and things like that.  
I'm just going to try to be aggressive and move in and finish the points.   I tried to do that a few times today and it's real important for me to do that.  
   
 Q.   Were You able to follow the tiebreak with Federer and Wawrinka?   
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I wasn't really following the tiebreak, but I did hear when they announced his name.   It was hard for me to keep my focus, but I tried to.  
   
 Q.   How long does it take you, particularly when you arrive at a tournament, for you to adjust to court conditions, balls, things like that?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I'd say probably within a day or two.   For me, I don't know.   I'm not super picky about things.   With my racquet tension and things like that, I just kind of go on the court and, okay, you've got to play with whatever it is.  
I usually don't worry about it too much.   It's not something I can control obviously with the court surface, so I just try to play and adjust to it as soon as I can and kind of deal with it, whatever it is like.   
   
 Q.   Errani is such a good retriever.   What kind of a challenge is that for you?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   For sure it will definitely be a challenge.   She's a consistent top‑10 player, very, very solid.   I played her last year in Acapulco and it was on clay, so that was definitely different.   
She really likes getting balls back.   I know she can probably hit some good angles too.   Puts a lot of spin on the ball.   I'm going to be try to take it early ‑ that's really my game ‑ but be ready to battle as well.   I think it will be a different match from today, so I'm going to expect that and just keep trying to be aggressive, especially on the return as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT