AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2014
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. BOUCHARD/V. Razzano
  6‑2, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How exciting was to second set tiebreak?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Well, I hope it was exciting for you guys.   It was kind of crazy.   You know, it became just mental and I just had to fight.   I'm happy I pulled through in the end.   We had some crazy points. 

Q.   In the tiebreak you were losing 8‑9, but you made an incredible forehand shot.   Explain that moment. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I don't even remember that.   Yeah, I mean, I was just in the moment, just trying to go for it. 
She played some really good points, too, on my match points.   It was a battle back and forth.   I felt overall I didn't play as well as I know I can. 
But, you know, even if it's a bit ugly, still fight and try.   Yeah, I'm happy I pulled through. 

Q.   You lost your way a little bit at the beginning of the second set.   You must be happy how you came back. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, she's a good player.   She can serve well, hit some really flat shots, change direction a lot. 
I think she had me on my heel a little bit.   When I was down 4‑1, I kind of relaxed, started playing my game.   It was a really big change after that.   I felt I played a lot better. 

Q.   How do you feel about losing three match points in a row?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It happens.   I wasn't even really disappointed on the court. 
Two games earlier, she was up 40‑Love, I won the game.   It happens.   People have lost matches from being ahead a lot.   I wasn't disappointed.   I was calm and I was confident, you know, if I played well I could get that chance again. 

Q.   You're usually fairly businesslike at the net with a handshake.   That was a warm moment.   Do you have any history at all? 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   No, I just thought because she was French they do the kissy thing.   I thought she maybe kind of wanted to.   I was hesitating.   I just kind of went for it (laughter). 

Q.   Atmosphere pretty good on that court with your fan club?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, they're amazing.   I don't know where they came from, these Australian guys.   But they're really supportive.   They just come up with all these songs.   It's really cool.   I think it gets the rest of the crowd really involved, as well. 
They better show up to my next match. 

Q.   Pretty straight‑faced through it all.   I assume you hear it?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I do, in the back of my head, I hear it a bit.   But I really have to stay focused and wait till the end of the match to crack a smile. 

Q.   Is that a present the fans game to you?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yes, gave me a little Koala.   They say themselves The Genie Army.   Reminder of who they are.   They're the Australian support. 

Q.   Will you keep it?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I'll put it in my room somewhere, I think. 

Q.   Quite a long time since a teenager won a Grand Slam.   A lot is talked about how difficult it is now for teenagers to do that.   Do you think things are starting to change?   There's a few of you coming through. 
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I think it's still really tough.   There are some of us who are kind of breaking through a little bit.   We still have a lot of tough moments.   We have success, but we also have losses. 
I think the older, experienced players are still really dominating right now.   But as time goes on, I think I'll do better.   I feel like I've gained experience in the past year.   Hopefully I can start doing better right away.

Q.   How does it differ playing someone you're expected to beat or being the underdog?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   For sure it's different now.   I came into this slam seeded now for the first time.   So, of course, my first few rounds I'm expected to win.   I always expect myself to do well. 
I just try to ignore the outside expectations and pressure and really just focus on what I need to do.   At the end of the day, I really need to perform.   I can't really worry about what people say on the outside. 

Q.   Lauren Davis or Georges, how do you feel?
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I played Davis in the juniors.   Never place Georges.   It will be interesting to see.   They have different games.   Georges plays aggressive, hits hard.   Davis gets a lot of balls back, but she can move the ball with her forehand and backhand. 
I don't know who is winning, but I'm looking forward to it and I'm just going to try my best and try to play better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT