ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 7, 2013
Eugenie Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/E. Bouchard
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Were you impressed with how you played in terms of just fighting back from those break points even in the first and second sets?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I wouldn't say impressed.   I mean, I know I can play at that level and I know I can play better than I did today.  
Obviously I think she's a great player and I think she played very well today, so you have to give it to her.  
I think it was a hard‑fought battle and tougher than the score would indicate.  
   
 Q.   Where do you rank this match compared to your matches against Sharapova experience‑wise?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I mean, I think it's another match, more experience.   You know, I have worked hard my whole life, and I want to become top‑10 player, so I need to play against the best.  
I always love the opportunity to play against a top‑10 player like Petra, so, you know, I was looking forward to playing.   I think, you know, even if I wasn't playing at my best I was fighting my best, and, you know, I gave myself my best chances.  
   
 Q.   To be able to play under the lights on home soil, the evening match, what does that do, as well?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   It's always fun.   For me I love playing at home, and especially a night match on center court is the best stage.   I think it just gives me extra motivation to play well in front of my home crowd.  
   
 Q.   What can you take away from your performance here this week?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I can learn a lot from this week.   It's always, you know, tough losing, but you learn more when you lose than when you win, I think.  
So, you know, I played one of the best players in the world, so I think I'm going to just go back to the practice courts, work on the things I need to work on and keep my head up and just know that next time I have a good chance.  
   
 Q.   You seemed a bit frustrated in the second set.   Can you just talk a bit about what you were going through and how you were feeling?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah.   Well, I felt like I wasn't playing my best, especially serving‑wise.   I usually rely on my serve to dominate the point and control.   I wasn't doing that as well today, so I was definitely a little bit frustrated.  
You know, I was still trying my best and giving it my best.   It's always disappointing when you're not playing as well as you know you can, but that happens, you know.   There are days when you play better than others.  
   
 Q.   You have touched on this already a little bit, but can you elaborate on I guess the fan response to you being, you know, being the Canadian hopeful here at this tournament in Toronto and coming off that big run in Wimbledon?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, I definitely feel their support here.   It's not many weeks during the year where I get the full crowd support, so when I do, I always enjoy it and try to use it to my advantage.   I felt like the fans were behind me and believed in me even in the second set.  
They were still encouraging me, and it's always fun.   You know, it's nice to play in those conditions.  
   
 Q.   The autograph session, as well, did you get some good comments?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   Yeah, and I got a few letters, as well, so it's fun.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn about your game this week moving forward in terms of your play?  
EUGENIE BOUCHARD:   I mean, I think, you know, I know I can hang with the top girls.   You know, in the points, we hit a lot of competitive points today.  
Obviously, I mean, she would come on top of more than I did, so it's just about working on being more consistent and being able to finish the points like she does and hopefully get better that way.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT