GREAT OCEAN ROAD OPEN
February 3, 2021
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. ALCARAZ/D. Goffin
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Obviously not the result you wanted to start your time here in Australia, but could you just talk us through your experience on court today.
DAVID GOFFIN:   It was not easy.  Was a tough one.  I mean, the guy played unbelievable.  He's such a young player, but super talented already.  He hit the ball really hard, and today was a tough match.  He played really well.  He was really aggressive.
Of course it was not my best match ever.  And, well, he played unbelievable in the way he was playing.  He was aggressive, the way he was returning.
It's not easy.  Was not the best start for this tournament and for this summer in Australia, but the most important is in a few days, and we try to stay positive, go back to practice, and prepare the next one.
THE MODERATOR:   On that preparation, how do you see yourself leading into the Australian Open?  I know it's very soon after your match on court, but do you have an idea about what you'll do now ahead of the Australian Open?
DAVID GOFFIN:   Try to go back to practice.  Try to continue the work that we did the last few days after the quarantine, and even during the quarantine.
So just try, as I said, try to stay positive.  Not to stay just to analyze this match, tonight's match, and not to stay on that one and try to be focused now on the next one, on the next Monday or Tuesday, and to stay motivated, because now the most important, like I said, it's the Grand Slam, and try to play better tennis next week.
Q. Alcaraz is the best under-18 at the moment, 18 years old.  How would you rate him for the future?  How good is he?
DAVID GOFFIN:   He just killed me, so I would say he's good (smiling).
I don't know exactly how he's playing, you know.  He had nothing to lose today.  He qualified for his first Grand Slam.  He's under 18.  He's hitting the ball unbelievable.
So I don't know if he's playing like tonight every day, every match, but it was a huge performance tonight.
He didn't let me play.  He was super-aggressive.  I was like 20% of second serve.  Yeah, I won 20% on my second serve, so he was returning like bombs, half volley all the time.  Was impressive tonight, but we will see in the future if he's, like, a normal match or an unbelievable match or a bad match.  You never know.  But what he did tonight was a good one.
Q. What do you think the secret is with Spain producing all these young champions?
DAVID GOFFIN:   I don't know.  I don't know.  You should ask his coach or the Spanish Federation.  I don't know.
But he looks already strong.  He's 17 maybe.  He's already strong.  He's moving well.  His arm is really quick, so he can hit the ball really quick and very easy.
I don't know.  I don't know why they are so good in Spain, but you should -- I cannot answer that question.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT