THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 10, 2019
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/D. Goffin   
6-4, 6-0, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Thoughts on that match.  
DAVID GOFFIN: It was not easy.  Was high level, high level from the start.  I was playing well.  I had the break.  Then, yeah, he played well.  He played well.  Was nothing to say.   
The game was 30-Love.  Maybe the double-fault, that's the only point I maybe should do better.  It was really high level.  It was tough to stay with him.   
I made everything right from the start.  As soon as he was a break down, he came back 4-All.  He started to play a little bit -- everything was a little bit deeper, a little bit better.  He served a little bit better, as well.  A lot of first serve.   
It was tough after that.  There was always some rallies, but at the end he was on top of everything.  It was tough.  When you miss opportunity like this in the first set, he's getting more confident, then it's tough to follow.   
 Q.  Your first quarterfinal here.  How disappointed are you?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Disappointed to lose today.  At the end it was really positive.  I'm really happy the level I played the whole grass season.  Now we just have to continue like this.  I play my best tennis again.  I'm healthy.  That's the most important.   
Now it's a little bit time to rest and to prepare everything, to prepare the body, to change surface for the hard court season.   
 Q.  How did it feel during those 10 games, about an hour?  
DAVID GOFFIN: It was tough.  Even if I had game points, he was serving better, like I said.  Every point is tough.  You have to play the perfect point to win it against him.  Then he's returning in your feet all the time.  You know how the grass is, just in front of the line, it's so tough, it's really fast.  He put you under pressure all the time.   
Even if you play well, it's not enough because he continue, continue, to play deep, deep, close from the line, left, right.  Amazing backhand down the line, as well.  He was everywhere.   
It's tough when he's playing like this.  Especially today for me, those conditions, he's the world No. 1, so that's why it's really tough to play against him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT