LAVER CUP
September 21, 2018
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GOFFIN/D. Schwartzman
6-4, 4-6, 11-9
Team Europe - 3
Team World - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How are you feeling?  How is the shoulder and everything else?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, first of all, physically I'm feeling great since one week now.  Yeah, the shoulder is fine.  My arm is also.  I was 100% today.
Then the match, well, it was great.  Great atmosphere.  Some good moments in the match where I was playing really well.  It was not easy, not easy with this atmosphere.  It was fantastic.  The noise and the crowd behind Diego tonight was just amazing.
I had to stay really focused and was not easy to finish the match with 7-3 in the super-tiebreak.  Saved match points.  So I'm really happy to give one point to Team Europe.
Q. Getting through those match points when the crowd was as loud as it was, how difficult was it to focus and concentrate at those moments?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, it was tough because, you know, when it was 7-3, the crowd was unbelievable behind Diego, because, you know, he made an ace and then a passing shot, and then incredible volley behind his back.
So from 7-3, it was 8-7 for him.  It was, yeah, unbelievable how he played with the crowd.
You had to, like I said, stay focused on what you have to do, stay calm and don't watch the bench of Team World (smiling) and just go for the shot.
And on the match point, I just had to take the point under control.  I had to be aggressive from the return, so that's what I did and I saved it.
At the end, I won, so I'm really happy.
Q. Do you remember the last time you played in front of a crowd that was as noisy as that?
DAVID GOFFIN: No, never.  Never.  Is the first time for me.  Maybe in Davis Cup final in Lille, in France last year, was also like 25,000.  But at the end of that kind of match, it was just amazing, yeah.
Q. Do you like it?  Do you enjoy it?
DAVID GOFFIN: Today I won, so I liked it, of course (smiling).
Yeah, I have never felt an atmosphere like that.  It was just amazing, amazing match, amazing shots, amazing -- I just enjoyed every moment tonight.
Q. This is part of playing home and away the way Davis Cup was played.
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah.
Q. It's gonna change next year, at least for the finals.  What is your thought on that?
DAVID GOFFIN: We will see.  It's a new format.  We have to qualify for the finals, and then we will see how it is.  It can be a great atmosphere, also.  Sure, we try, with Belgium, we try to do our best.  But it will be another atmosphere.
I don't know.  It will be different.  Different, maybe better, but I don't know.  We will see.
Q. Personally will you miss it or not?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yes, of course.  When you play even away, it's something special, like tonight with the crowd and it's different atmosphere, and when you have to get through this atmosphere, it's just amazing feeling with your team.  When you are just a small team all together against 20, 25,000 or even less, it is something special.
Of course I'm going to miss that kind of tie, home and away, but I don't know.  I will tell you in one year (smiling).
Q. We have a fan question from the Laver Cup Twitter.  How does it feel to look over at your bench and see both your team and those amazing legend captains cheering you on?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, you cannot imagine how it is.  You have Björn Borg on your bench, and you have Roger telling you some advices.  It's like a dream.
And then you have Novak.  You have, like, the team, Grigor, so many good players.  I cannot describe that moment.  I just try to enjoy.  I just try to give everything for them, for the team.  I love to play for a team and when there is that team spirit and when you are not playing for yourself and you're playing for somebody else.  Here, to play for Björn Borg, to play for Roger, it's a dream, really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT