U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2018
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GOFFIN/R. Haase
6-2, 6-7, 6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Hard-fought match out there.  How good do you feel to have prevailed?
DAVID GOFFIN: It was a great match.  I always have some tough match against him.  I always found the solution, like today.  Tough moment in the match, especially in the second.  He played really well.  He played a really good tiebreak.  It was one set all.
It was not easy to find a way to win the match, but I did.  It's really positive.  Yeah, also with the heat, I was feeling much better.  I moved 10 times better than two days ago because it was a little bit cooler.  It was much better for me.
At the end I played really solid match.  I played well when I had to.  After that, the last two sets was, yeah, 6-3, 6-2.  Really happy the way I played.  It was a not easy match.  But at the end four sets is a good one.
Q. Talk about the way you're playing this year as opposed to last.  Are you looking forward to possibly getting deeper than you got last year?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, but I had some ups and downs this year.  Now since few weeks, I'm playing well.  Had great results in Cincinnati.  Had good preparation here.  I won already two matches here, two good matches.  So I'm in a good period.  I hope that it's going to be four more matches here because that's the last major of the year.  It would be nice to finish with a great -- I mean, finish the last major with a great tournament here.
I will do my best to play my best tennis, few matches, and we will see.  But I'm feeling good.  I think physically it was a good match today, a good match to see where I am.  I'm still feeling good.  The shoulder is fine.  I had a good recovery from the first match.
Just have to keep going like this the same next match.
Q. What do you know about your next opponent?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, I always played well against Struff.  He improved a lot the last two seasons.  I think he's playing much more aggressive now.  He tried to go more to the net.  He's serving well.  He can hit some bombs with his forehands.  He's not easy to play, especially on a hard court here.
He will have nothing to lose against me.  It's third round.  He has already won, yeah, two matches.  He's here with some great confidence, I think.
It's going to be, I think, a tough match.  But I have the key to, yeah, try to be solid, to make him move a lot, then we will see what's going to happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT