WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2018
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. GOFFIN/J. Del Potro   
7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Second win of the day.  Second opponent who is playing very well.  What are your thoughts on that, and how are you holding up physically?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, it was a tough day, and especially when yesterday you don't hit any balls and then you're tired after a day like this, because you're stressed a little bit because you don't know if you're gonna go on the court or not.   
You warm up once, twice, and then at the end of the day, at 11:00, you go back to the hotel and then you feel tired, and you have to come back early this morning to warm up and to be ready for your match.   
It was not easy, because if you play at 11:00 against Kevin Anderson, you have to be ready to return his serve.  He's playing really fast.  He's strong.  So I'm really happy the way I returned, the way I moved, and the way I played this morning.   
And then I complete another match against Juan Martin this evening.  Happy I won in two sets in the morning, so I was fresh for the match, because it was a great intensity against Delpo and some rallies with his backhand crosscourt, so it was not easy tactically to find a solution.  But at the end, two tiebreakers and I made it.  So I'm really happy to be in the semifinal for the first time.   
 Q.  Juan is hitting the ball big.  These courts seem to be faster.  What did you do best to take care of that speed that you are encountering when you're playing against him?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, I think I'm just fighting since the first match.  I'm moving well.  I'm feeling fresh mentally.  And match after match it was better and better.   
The first win against Tsitsipas my first round gave me some confidence, and then I knew that was the match that I needed to feel more comfortable on the court.  And it was better and better against Benoit Paire and Kevin Anderson, also.   
Tonight was a great battle.  So I'm feeling great, moving well.  I think when I move well, that's the key for my best tennis.   
 Q.  Just a quick word on Stan and a quick word on Roger, depending on who wins this one.  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, if it's Roger, semifinal, he plays so well here in Cincinnati.  He loves the center court.  It's fast courts, fast conditions, so he likes it.  And it's not going to be easy.   
It's always special to play against Roger.  You have to be focused on what you have to do and not on his side, because, yeah, you know that all the crowd will be behind him and you have to play your best tennis and be focused on your game.  So it will be tough, like always.   
If it's Stan, he's playing much better now.  He's moving really well.  This week he's playing some great tennis.  I played with him the last weeks, and, yeah, he was hitting the ball really well and he was already feeling much better on his legs.  I'm not surprised that he can be in the semifinals.   
We will see.  Against both, it will be a really difficult match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT