U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2017
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GOFFIN/G. Monfils
7-5, 5-1 [Ret.]
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk about how you feel about this match.  What can you take away from this match?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, first of all, I'm really happy to be in the second week for the first time here in New York.  But it was really special.  It's a match against a friend.  I know Gaël pretty well, and it was not easy to see after the first set he was struggling with his knee, and, yeah, because the first set was with a high quality of tennis.
So it was a great match in the first set, and in the second, I saw a little bit he was not running 100%, so it was tough to stay focused.  Yeah, I hope his injury is not too serious and he will come back soon on the tour.  At the end, I'm happy to be in fourth round for the first time.
Q. Looking into the next round, what do you need to prepare or improve for the next round?
DAVID GOFFIN: Next round?  It will be Rublev, I think.  Yeah, I played well today.  I played really aggressive.  I took the ball early.  So it was a great level.  So I have to do the same next round.
I have to take the ball also early and play fast to make him run a lot.  When he takes his forehand and hit the ball really strong, it's not easy when I have to run.  So I have to do the same as today, just to be aggressive, and we will see.
Yeah, from the beginning, I took match after match, and I will prepare the next one as I did since the beginning.
Q. You mentioned that the first set was very competitive.  When did you notice in the second set that he was having some problems?
DAVID GOFFIN: I knew -- first of all, I knew before the match, because I saw that he was not 100% against Donald Young, the match before.
Yeah, I saw his knee also, the tape on his knee.  But I didn't think about it before the match.  I was just 100% from the last point, and then, yeah, when I saw he started the match really well, he was moving well, so I was ready to fight for five sets, like in the second round.
But after the first set, when I took the first set, I saw that maybe he started to feel his knee a little bit better.  He run a lot in the first set, so maybe it was too much for him.
So I started to see at the beginning of the second set that he was struggling with his knee, and, yeah, after three or four games, it was almost the end.
But you never know with Gaël (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT