AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2017
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. GOFFIN/D. Thiem   
5-7, 7-6, 6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You must be pleased with your performance.  How do you feel going to the quarterfinals?  
DAVID GOFFIN: I feel tired, but feeling so happy.  It was a really good match.  Not easy.  I started the match really well.  Was not easy to control the ball because the first two sets it was really sunny and the ball, it was bouncing really high, so it was not easy to control the ball.   
But, yeah, I'm feeling so happy that I found my way to find a solution in the second.  I serve really well.  Then I played two really good sets the third and the fourth.   
I'm really happy.  It was a big fight, so I'm feeling really good.   
 Q.  The upsets of the top seeds that happened recently, do you feel there's a feeling now that the draw is up for grabs?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, no, it's just that I'm feeling more confident for the moment against top players.  I had a lot of matches before the tournament.  I knew that I was able to fight and to win some matches against big guys.   
I knew that I had the level.  The key was to play my best tennis in the match and not only during practice.  But I'm doing more often than in the past.  That's why I'm more confident and I win some more matches.   
 Q.  During the match, obviously Dominic hits the ball very hard.  How did you negate that after the first two sets?  Did you feel as though you had to get the ball back and make him play and make the error?  
DAVID GOFFIN: The key, first of all, I serve really well, like I said.  It was the key to stay in the match in the second set.  Because after losing the first match, it was not easy to stay in the rallies because he was playing with such an intensity in every shots, so it was not easy.   
But I served really well.  Then I played a good tiebreak.  I was solid.  Then I started to play more solid, because it's impossible to hit the ball harder than him, so you have to feel the timing, you have to stay solid, to play fast, and just make him miss some balls.   
As soon as I was in the match in the third and in the fourth, it was better and better.  I started to play deeper.  I started to play more aggressive.  Then he started to miss a lot.  He did at the end a lot of mistakes.   
The key was just to stay in the match, to stay solid, because as soon as you are out of the fight, Dominic starts to play much better.  That was the key:  just find the timing and stay in the match.   
 Q.  Playing Grigor Dimitrov or Denis Istomin next, what would it mean to you to get to your first Grand Slam semifinal?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, it would mean a lot.  But I will be focused on the match, not on the consequences, if I win or if I lose.  I will be just focusing on my match.   
Of course, the ranking, it doesn't matter the ranking they have.  They are both good players.  Istomin is on fire this week.  He won against Djokovic, and Carreno Busta was not an easy match after Djokovic.  You have to stay focused again against Carreno Busta.  He won again.  He's a good player.   
And Dimitrov, he won everything.  He started the year really well.  He won in Brisbane, a really strong tournament, Brisbane ATP 250.  He was really solid this week.   
It's going to be interesting to see the match now.  I will prepare my match like always, like I did this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT