INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 13, 2016
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/D. Goffin
6-1, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you give us an idea of how difficult conditions were out there with the wind swirling around?  It looked very hard.
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, it was a tough one today with the conditions.  Of course the wind, with the wind it was tough to be precise, to be solid also and to attack really well.
In the first set he played really well with the wind.  He played some winners in the middle of the first set.  He was serving really well.  And then in the second I just tried to hit harder against the wind, just tried to go for the shot, because if I played some rallies with him it was tough because he has really great hand and he can manage the point really well.
So it was tough, after three or four shots in the rally, it was tough for me to win the point.  So I just tried to go for the shot when I had the good one.  It worked a little bit in the second, of course, but it was not enough to win the second.
I had some opportunities to win the second, had game point to lead 4-1, and then at the end of the set it was really tight.  Yeah, I had some chances in the second but he was better.
Q. Do you think he has more variety to his game than any other player?
DAVID GOFFIN: I think he can do every shots.  He can slice, he can serve bombs.  He had a good second serve.  He had really good backhand.  Of course the return is amazing.
I served well today.  It wasn't bad.  But he's always returning really well, and he puts some pressure on my serve so it's not easy.
But, yeah, he has a lot of variety in his game, of course.  He has everything.  He can do every shots.
Q. On the wind, the dust seemed to blow in your eyes a few times.  Was it actually difficult to see?
DAVID GOFFIN: Not to see, but sometimes during the points, when you have to hit the ball, sometimes you have the clay in your eyes and you have to try to see the next one.
Yeah, sometimes against the wind it was tough.  But even with the wind it was tough, because if you don't hit the ball really well it's going wide or it's going long all the time, so it was tough to control it.
But, yeah, I did maximum today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT