MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 14, 2016
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. GRANOLLERS/D. Goffin
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. What is your analysis?
DAVID GOFFIN: It was tough mentally.  I was feeling good with my tennis and physically, but I lacked energy.  This didn't help me in the important moments.
I believe, generally speaking, I was dominating in the rallies.  On some points, he was able to defend well.  There were many mistakes, unforced errors, that were allowing him to get back into the match.
I had good moments, but not enough for me to win.
Q. What do you need to do to win those matches?
DAVID GOFFIN: Well, in the beginning of the match I felt very well.  I wouldn't say he had luck, but he was solid.  He was able to hold his position.  I had to struggle to break back.  There were ups and downs.
I would have needed to be more concentrated to be able to be ahead when I needed to.
Q. And what happened in the second set?
DAVID GOFFIN: He was very far on that particular point, and it was difficult to win points on our serves today.  It was a bit colder and the balls were not as fast.  He was always returning very well.  He was stepping into the court.  So it was tough to use my serve.  Most points were decided in the rallies.
Q. It was the first tournament on clay after the American tour.  Are you disappointed?
DAVID GOFFIN: Well, I am disappointed because I had all the chances in my hands to win this match, and I was not able to do it.
Q. You were saying it's becoming difficult to keep your energy going.
DAVID GOFFIN: Well, it was a complicated match.  He was playing very well.  Of course, it was my second match on clay against him.  It was tough winning that match.  Then I played another Spaniard after that.  My opponent today didn't have anything to lose.
So I don't know if it's a matter of lack of energy or because I was tired from yesterday and I didn't have a day's rest in between.  I know if I start the tournament on Tuesday, I have to play every day.  Physically it's a bit tough.  But I was tired mentally more than physically, because I have no injuries.
Q. What are you going to do now?  Rest at home for a few days?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yes.  I'm going to rest for a few days, and then we'll see with my team what we're going to do.  We need to prepare for Munich, so we'll see if I'm going to rest or how I'm going to practice.  I don't know what I'm going to do exactly yet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT