MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 13, 2016
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GOFFIN/F. Delbonis
7-6, 2-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. David, you went through a lot of different things today.
DAVID GOFFIN: Yes, it was a difficult match.  He was playing well.  He was into his match.  He was solid.  It was a bit complicated for me.
Several times I went out of the match.  The conditions were tough for me.  But I was lucky that I won it.  I hope I'll do better tomorrow.  I'm happy that I won.
Q. What can explain it?
DAVID GOFFIN: It was a bit of everything.  The sun, the shadows, the match also next to the court.  Everything annoyed me a little bit today.
But I was able to keep fighting until the end of the third set.  Even if I was down a break several times, I was able to fight back.  It paid off.
Q. Were you able to win because you were confident?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yes and no.  I knew that in important moments, Fernando might drop a few points.  In the tiebreaker he made some mistakes that were good for me.
But every time I was coming back, I was maybe able to be up in the score, I needed to focus.  When I was up 2-Love in the third, every time I was not able to take the opportunity, so he was gaining confidence again.
I could have managed the match a lot better.
Q. Maybe today you didn't have enough energy?
DAVID GOFFIN: No, I felt frustrated because I felt very good.  I'm hitting well.  I wanted to play a good match.  But I just got frustrated by myself.
I don't think it's because I'm tired.  I feel good.  These things happen.  You just need to keep fighting and try to win those matches.  I hope tomorrow I'll be able to play better.
Q. You're going to play a totally different opponent.
DAVID GOFFIN: He's a right-handed player.  I played Marcel in Miami first round.  I still remember that match.  I know him.  And Alexander Zverev is a player I haven't played for a long time.  He has a lot more experience now.  He improved a lot.
So whoever, we'll see what happens.  I need to rest first, then I'll prepare for the match.
Q. Novak was saying he was not fresh because he had played so many matches.  What about you, you played many matches, too?
DAVID GOFFIN: Well, of course there are periods when it is tougher because in big matches we lose a lot of energy, and sometimes you can feel tired after that.
But I try to have a good schedule so that I can play well in most of the tournaments.  For the time being, I'm still there.  I have no physical problem.  I feel really good.
In fact, I'm not asking myself that question.  I just take it match after match, and I try to play my best each time.  Sometimes it is as important to rest as it is to compete.
Q. Ferrer might be your opponent in the third round.  What are your thoughts?
DAVID GOFFIN: Well, all matches are difficult.  Raonic had also a difficult match.  All the matches are difficult.
I will not think about all that and just take the opponents as they come.  Tomorrow I will have a very difficult match in Marcel Granollers who is a very top player.  He has a lot of talent.  He beat very good players already.  So even if it's not Ferrer, it will be one of the other two.  We'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT