AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2016
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GOFFIN/D. Thiem
6-1, 3-6, 7-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. The match start quite easy for you.  Were you expecting this kind of game against him?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yes, of course.  I know him really well, and in the beginning was really aggressive and maybe he was not in the good mood.  Maybe it was a good thing for me to be aggressive since the first point.
I take the break really early, so maybe that's why he was a little bit surprised maybe that I was really aggressive at the beginning of the match.  That's why it was 6-1.  And then he started to serve better and feeling better on his baseline.
That's why it was tough the last three sets.  It was tough until the end.
Q. The next round will see you playing either Federer or Dimitrov.  Given the similarities - many people talk about the two players - does it seem like for you it's almost like similar game plan for you?
DAVID GOFFIN: I played both players already at least once, and, yeah, I mean, it's the fourth round of a Grand Slam.  Of course if you want to go in the quarterfinal you have to play a big match and you have to give everything and to play wonderful match to go to the quarterfinals.
So I just have to be focused on what I have to do, like every match, to be aggressive and take every opportunities as I can.
At the end we will see.  But for the moment, I'm just enjoying my performance today and take a day off tomorrow and be ready for the next round.
Q. I think it was in 2014 when you went back down to the challenger level and had that match streak of win after win after win.  How much confidence did you take from stepping down a level and just getting more matches under your belt?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, I took some confidence in challengers.  I knew I had the level, and then sometimes you just need a few wins for legs and for your confidence.
And after that, you are really confident for the rest of your season and match after match you're feeling better.  That's why now I think I am feeling better.  I'm still improving my game day after day, and that's why now I'm really happy to get through the fourth round.
But I worked really hard since many years, and I'm really happy that now I'm in the top 20 and for the first time here in the fourth round of the Aussie Open.
Q. You said after the win you felt like you could go out and play another match.  Do you still feel that way after the adrenaline has subsided a little bit?
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, I was just joking (laughter).  Because it was a match with really high intensity, so mentally I lost so many energy on the court.  I mean, mentally, even if physically I'm feeling good.
But mentally I'm a little bit down now after, because when you stay three hours focus on the match and what you have to do, sometimes when it's done and when it's finished you have -- you get tired right after the match.
That's maybe why I'm a little bit tired now, but physically I'm feeling good and the body is okay.
So I'm just have to rest for the next round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT