DAVIS CUP FINAL: BELGIUM VS GREAT BRITAIN
November 27, 2015
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. GOFFIN/K. Edmund   
3-6, 1-6, 6-2, 6-1, 6-0   
Belgium - 1   
Great Britain - 0   
An interview with:   
DAVID GOFFIN   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  David, you obviously went into that match as a favorite to win.  How much more momentum and belief does it give Belgium that you came back from the brink of a defeat to win that way?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, I knew.  But first of all, Kyle played an unbelievable first two sets.  He was really aggressive with his forehand.  He played with his forehand with a lot of power.  It was tough to manage it because I didn't know Kyle before the match, how he plays.   
Yeah, it was tough for me.  From the beginning, I was a little bit tight also.  But I knew we have a chance in the match.  I had the chance in the third set.  I knew when it was 3-1 for me, the match turned.  It was better until the end.   
I tried to stay calm, to manage it very well.  At the end I'm really happy to win the first point.  People expected me to win the match, and that's what I did.   
 Q.  How worried were you at the end of the second set, not just because he was playing well, but you were having a terrible day serving?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, I was a little bit worried because Kyle was playing unbelievable.  He just had nothing to lose.  He played a wonderful match.  But, like I said, I knew I had a chance and I had to take it.   
If Kyle played three sets like this, okay, no problem, he plays unbelievable.  But I knew it's always tough when you are young, when you're playing your first match in Davis Cup, to play three sets like this.  It's always tough.   
That's why I tried to stay calm and waiting for a chance.   
 Q.  David, your opponent had ten winning forehands in the first set, four in the second, three in the third, one in the fourth.  Was it also because you were playing much deeper later on?  Also, how did you feel with the tension at the beginning?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, we've never played a Davis Cup Final, so it's always tough to play the first match.  The pressure was more on my shoulders because we needed this point against Kyle.  All the team, we needed the first match.   
Yeah, in the first set he was really aggressive with his forehand.  Of course, it's his best weapon.  But, yeah, I tried to stay more deeper, like you said.  I played more aggressive in the third.  Then it was better and better until the end.   
I think the key was just to wait a chance and try to stay fit physically in a good position to take a chance if there is one.  There was one, so I took the chance.   
 Q.  How do you feel physically?  Do you have any worries about how much the match might have taken out of you for the rest of the tie?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, I'm feeling really good.  At the end I was feeling better than in the beginning of the match.  It was five sets, but it was not a long match.  I'm feeling really good.  I'm ready if I have to play tomorrow and Sunday.   
 Q.  Many people were saying this would be a straightforward tie for Great Britain; they'd win comfortably.  Has that given you extra motivation?  Does your victory show that Belgium are very much in this to win it?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yes, of course, sometimes some wins gives you more confidence, wins like this, when you're not playing your best level, but you are playing with your heart, with a good mentality.  Even if your level is not the highest you can play, if you can win this one with the heart, sometimes for your mental, it's better.   
That's what I did today.  For tomorrow and for Sunday my motivation is higher than before the match.   
 Q.  Having played Kyle today, how do you see his future?  20 years old.  Your thoughts?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, he's really, really talented.  His arm, he's going really quick.  He has a quick arm and forehand.  He has a lot of weapons.  I think physically he could be better because after two sets, maybe with the pressure and with the tie after two sets, it was tough for him to continue with the same aggressivity with his legs and his body.   
I think he has a good potential.  He's serving well.  Physically he's big.  He has a quick arm.  I think he has everything to go to the top.  He broke the top 100 this year already, so if a few years I'm sure we going to see him in the future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT