BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 5, 2015
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/D. Goffin
  6‑1, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
   
 Q. Did you feel you never managed to put your game on the court?  
DAVID GOFFIN: It was difficult for me to do something today. I felt tired. My body was on the court, but there was nobody on the inside.   
   
 Q. Would that result have any bearing to what's going to happen in three weeks' time?  
DAVID GOFFIN: I don't think so. I think I just wasn't feeling good on the court today, and I think in few weeks it will be on another surface, and will be normally full of energy and of course Andy played unbelievable today, and I hope he won't play like this in Belgium, but it will be a completely different match.   
   
 Q. Did you feel any extra pressure or expectation because the match had that connection with the Davis Cup?  
DAVID GOFFIN: No, just feeling so bad on the court today, and was just a match to forget. Yeah, the season is over for me for the tour, and only have one more event in Davis Cup, so I think it's just a match to forget.   
And of course you played Andy today and I have some indication for the Davis Cup match.  
   
 Q. Obviously it will be different, the Davis Cup final. Do you think the clay kind of improves your chances against Andy?  
DAVID GOFFIN: I think so. I'm feeling good on clay. I have two or maybe three weeks to feel the game on clay. I think it will be a different match, of course. The game is completely different on clay court. You can slide on the side.   
And I think in a few weeks it will be different rallies, more rallies on clay court, different game, because Andy was really aggressive with his return. I think it will be more easy for me to feel my game on clay against him.  
   
 Q. Could you be a little bit more specific about what you thought‑‑ you just said he was aggressive on the return, but what Andy did really well and a little bit more specific on what you would really hope to improve upon?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah. First Andy served really well from the beginning. He did eight or nine aces in three games, so it was an impressive start with his serve. Yeah, he was really aggressive with his backhand. He didn't miss any balls, any returns. So it didn't help me to enter in the match. So it was tough today to be effective and to be competitive.   
   
 Q. What are your immediate plans from now? How much time will you take off? When do you start to practice? When do you meet up with your team?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yeah, I'm a little bit tired now, so I'm going to take some days off. Then we're going to ‑‑I don't know which day, but we're going to meet, I'm going to meet the team to practice all together on clay court for sure, maybe at the end of next week or the week after. And we're going to prepare the tie all together.   
I think we need ‑‑it's easy for us to feel the clay. After few hours or just two or three days, we can feel the game on clay. So I think two weeks or maybe two‑and‑a‑half, it will be enough ready.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
   
 Q. You have felt the tiredness come for a while now. How are you going to feel your energy back for the Davis Cup?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Well, right now it's tough because we never start matches after matches. It's not a physical tiredness, which is a good thing. What I thought was difficult this morning was get up early and being tired mentally. That's the way it was.   
Andy was extremely efficient today. This didn't help me to get into that match. This is why that match was the way it was.   
   
 Q. Can you sometimes feel it as soon as you wake up in the morning that it's going to be difficult?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Well, yes, a little bit in the morning. But also when I practiced, I felt some pain here and there. I felt stiff.   
Also when you think, well, Andy Murray is waiting for you, then it's quite complicated. As far as I was concerned, I thought this would be my last match of the season, so it's really tough to really put all your energy into it.   
   
 Q. So this is just an off day?  
DAVID GOFFIN: An off day? Well, I feel the ball well these days. It was just that I didn't feel like fighting for hours today. It was really tough. Yes, clearly it was an off day. But I don't believe it is going to have consequences for my tennis in the future.   
   
 Q. When you talk about mental tiredness, does it mean it's difficult to focus, to concentrate?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yes, you know, during the rallies, I wasn't really there. I was sort of playing without any specific intention. That made the difference today. Even if I had played my best match, I wouldn't have won maybe, but today it was just impossible.  
   
 Q. Yesterday was the same time, but the match was totally different. So maybe what was at stake had an influence?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Well, yesterday was a first round. You never want to lose a first round. My status was to be the favorite yesterday. So I want to show what I'm able to do. I don't want to lose against someone who is as good as I am.   
Also, it was a smaller court. I never played on center court before today. It's a bit different. Maybe also that made a difference.   
My opponent yesterday maybe helped me. It was the last match for him, too, and maybe he let go. That's why yesterday it went well. But it didn't go so well today.   
   
 Q. So for Davis Cup we think maybe Michael Llodra will give you a hand, he will help you. Do you know about this?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Yes. Mika was approached, indeed. Chances it will be him. We are in favor of that. We will discuss it with the Swiss, with the captain. They talked about having a consultant. They had one last year. This can only be a good thing for the doubles. It can help us to have a clearer idea to hear what he has to say, how we should position ourself on the court. It can only help.   
   
 Q. What is the atmosphere in Belgium right now? Of course everybody is expecting that Davis Cup.   
DAVID GOFFIN: I don't really know. I don't realize. We will see what happens during those two or three weeks coming up, because we only have this to think about.   
I think it may be in people's mind it's going to be an enormous event, and everybody is waiting impatiently and looking forward to it. We haven't had a final since decades, so I think in Belgium, it's going to be a major event.  
   
 Q. Of course you are not used to playing against Murray. You do practice together. Maybe today when you saw him play, you thought it was even more difficult than you anticipated?  
DAVID GOFFIN: Well, he played very well, but it was exactly the kind of surface that he likes. It's slightly slow. And he did everything well. He served well, was aggressive, returned well. So if he plays exactly the same way in Davis Cup and puts all the balls on the lines and then be as aggressive, it's going to be tough.   
Of course he's a great champion. But it's going to be different, because it's going to be in Belgium. It's going to be different. I have to be better prepared I believe for a match like this, so it's difficult to prepare.   
But today if I had wanted to win, it would have been really difficult.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT