WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2012
David Goffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. GOFFIN/B. Tomic
  3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You must be very pleased with your performance.   You hung in there very well and got stronger as you went on after a shaky start. 
DAVID GOFFIN:   Yeah, it was a good performance.   It wasn't good start, but I was feeling good.   I lost the first set, but I was feeling good and then continued to keep focus in my game. 
Game after game it was better, and then I played really, really good game.   I served very well during all the match, and I was more aggressive after the first set.   He was running, and me, I was in the court. 
So, yeah, I'm pretty happy.

Q.   He has a fairly unique game.   He's a wonderful ball striker and takes the pace off.   Did that make it easier or harder for you to find your game and express your game in its best way?
DAVID GOFFIN:   Yeah, in the first set when I started the match, I was a little bit nervous because I didn't know how to play against him with his forehand, with the spin, different spin, you know, with his forehand.
On grass it was not easy to play.   But, yeah, after one set I found my way to hit the ball.   Then when I was feeling good in the second set, I knew it would be better.   It would be another match.   Yeah, it was good.

Q.   Did you ask anyone how to play him?   Did anyone give you information about his game?
DAVID GOFFIN:   Yeah.   I knew him before because I play against him in junior, but it was three years ago.   Yeah, I knew it was on grass.   It was a difficult match with his game. 
He love the grass, so, yeah, it was not easy, but I'm really happy with my performance.   Yeah. 

Q.   Do you prefer the big stage?   Do you think you play better and can motivate more when there are a lot of people around?
DAVID GOFFIN:   Yeah.   I prepare myself for big tournament like this.   Last week I play in Rosmalen, but I wasn't ready for my first round, because to come from clay and directly after only one or two days on grass to play first round last week, it wasn't easy, but now after almost two weeks on grass I'm feeling good.
I prepare myself for Wimbledon and now I'm feeling good.   We will see next round.

Q.   Is Wimbledon a special tournament for you, or is Roland Garros your favorite?
DAVID GOFFIN:   For a long time it's the best tournament I prefer to play.   I played only last year, and it was in Roehamton, but is the most beautiful tournament in the world.
I love playing here, and I hope I will play a lot of years here.

Q.   During the fourth set today you seemed really calm, and you seemed to concentrate on your service games.   Is this true or were you nervous inside?
DAVID GOFFIN:   Last game I was a little bit nervous inside, but I tried to stay focused and to doesn't show anything on my face, like Bjorn Borg (smiling). 
With this attitude, that's the best way to manage the important game or important point.   So I tried to stay calm and, and, yeah, that's it.

Q.   You played Roger Federer in Paris.   Now there is a little bit of distance.   What did you take out of this game, and did it give you a lot of confidence?   You played him very well. 
DAVID GOFFIN:   It gave me a lot of confidence, but now the French Open is behind me and now it's a new tournament.   I'm in second round here.
Yeah, just use the French Open to give me a lot of confidence, but that's all.   It's behind me, and it's a new tournament here.   I'm in second round, and I'm feeling good.   That's it.

Q.   Did your life change since you played Roger Federer?
DAVID GOFFIN:   A little bit with the journalists and the media.   More attention in my little city, but I didn't change anything in my life.   It's the same.   I continue to work with Belgian Federation.   That's all.

Q.   Do you feel more pressure in a way, now that you have all this attention?
DAVID GOFFIN:   Yeah, maybe, but it's a good pressure.   I want to do my best, first for me, and then for my family and for Belgium.
No, I have no more pressure than before.   I'm feeling good with this. 

Q.   Now that you've played Federer, does he feel any less super‑human to you?   You said you idolized him as a kid.   Does Federer seem a little less super‑human to you now that you've played him?
DAVID GOFFIN:   Super‑human?   I don't know.   I don't know.   I don't understand the question.
(Through translation.) 
Oh, yeah, sorry.   No, I played against him.   It was a great match.   Of course when I was young he was a Superman for me, but now I was against him and I was feeling good.   I played a great first set.   But like I said before, it's behind me, and maybe I will play another match against him in next weeks.

Q.   You'll play at the Olympics in a few weeks' time.   Are you more confident for that now that you've got a win on the grass?
DAVID GOFFIN:   Yeah.   Now I'm feeling good on grass, so I'm happy to go to the Olympics and I can play a tournament before the Olympics here, so I can play a few matches. 
But I'm feeling good on grass, and I hope it will be good for the Olympics here.

Q.   Did you find your game is good for grass?   You love Wimbledon, of course.   What's your favorite surface?
DAVID GOFFIN:   My favorite surface, it's hard court, but I can play good on all surface like clay or here on grass.
I have aggressive game, so on grass I can do a lot of good things.   I hope it will continue for the next round.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT