ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 3, 2011
Shelly Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell me are you ready to go on Sunday morning? Have you done New York before?   
 SHELLY WOODS: Yes, I've done it five times, I think. Yeah, I think. I lost count. I love this race. For me, it's one of the biggest races of the year, if not thee biggest race of the year. I usually race the London Marathon, and then New York in autumn. It always attracts the biggest and best field. So if you win this race, you're doing pretty good.   
 Yeah, I think it will be a tough race, and I'm looking forward to it.  
  
  Q. Tell me, so you like the course as well?   
 SHELLY WOODS: Yeah, it's a very tough course. Lots of big bridges to climb. I think the thing with this course is if you've got any weaknesses, it shows on this course. So it's like most of the marathons we do around the world, like London, Berlin, and stuff like that, and Chicago, it ends up being much of a pack race until the sprint finish.   
 On this course, there are opportunities. If you can climb well or descend well, there are opportunities to try to break away and make it very hard for the other girls, like they've made it hard for me in the past. So if you can climb well, and you can do well, but if you have any weaknesses, it shows on this course. It's basically a race of the toughest.  
  
  Q. Beautiful weather today, hope it lasts through the weekend. Talk about that.   
 SHELLY WOODS: Yes, well, a few days ago I sat at home watching BBC News and I saw all the snow in Central Park.  
  
  Q. When did you get here?   
 SHELLY WOODS: Yesterday. So, yeah. I was just hoping it would be gone, but it looks great now, and I think it seems a bit warmer than last year. I think last year was freezing cold. Hopefully it will be nice, and won't be too windy. It will be good.  
  
  Q. Tell me about your year so far, and what have you done?   
 SHELLY WOODS: Okay, so for me, the London Marathon in April. I finished second to Amanda McGrory. She's an American.  
  
  Q. She was here yesterday.   
 SHELLY WOODS: Yeah. I've been racing on the track through the summer getting my qualifiers for London next year, and then pretty much straight after the track, I went back to the road and I've been training for this.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT