AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 9, 2021
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. MEDVEDEV/V. Pospisil
 6-2, 6-2, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Just want to mention, 15 wins in a row.  Can you just talk about this incredible run that you're on.
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, it's nice.  I actually don't know about all the tennis records.  I know that Novak and Rafa Roger probably have about 40, Andy Murray had a lot, so I'm actually wondering, are there a lot of players who are able to do it, especially it was a strong tournament.  Bercy, London and ATP Cup, not an easy tournament, so it's great.  Hopefully I can get as many matches as possible going.
 Q. How would you describe the state of your game right now and the level of confidence that you're playing with?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   It's always a bit tough to talk about it in the beginning of the season, but I think in ATP Cup, for example, against -- I mean, it's also a strange situation we're at right now.  For two weeks, even if I was really lucky to not be in hard quarantine, still, you cannot do everything you want to prepare let's say 100 percent for the tournament.  Then we had this day where we didn't know if the tournament is going to continue happening or not.  So it's all destabilizing.  That's why against Sascha Zverev I think I didn't play my best, at the end it was a little bit better.  Against Matteo was really good match.  First two matches I think I could have done something better.  So it goes from match to match.  Every match is different because the situation is different.
 But I'm feeling confident.  Winning almost everything in straight sets is important, so I'm feeling confident about myself.  I know that I can do well, but a Grand Slam is not an easy thing.
 Q. What are your thoughts about the absence of lines-people and the use of electronic lines calls and maybe the future for that?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, tough to say because for sure let's say like this, some people are losing job probably because of this, like in many spheres in our modern world.  It's not only tennis.  If we talk about what is fair, like again, as I say, like in every other sport, technology, even if they make some mistakes sometimes, they make less mistakes than people, so at least it's one less reason to get frustrated.  So I would say I support it.
 Q. Thinking about you won in Paris and then the ATP finals and now the ATP Cup, do you feel the favorite for this Australian Open?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Me, I just try to win matches.  Yeah, I get asked this question a lot, so if people consider me as a favorite, it's actually a good job because I worked all my life to be one of the, let's say, top players in the world, so I'm happy that I'm part of them right now.  But you know, you need to win seven matches.  I just won one, so I need to win six more against very strong opponents, all of them, out of five sets -- how many sets is it?  That's 18 sets more you need to win, which is a lot.  It's like nine three-set matches, so I'll take it step by step.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT