ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 5, 2020
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/A. de Minaur
5-7, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. I remember that you had problems with Diego during the ATP Cup.  I was wondering, what are your relationship with him these days?  You never lost against Diego.  What about the key for the match?  Do you think that you are the favorite?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, talking about the favorite, I don't think in such matches when there are two top-10 players there is no really favorite.  Diego is playing amazing at this moment.  His results are unbelievable.  He will probably be in London.  Of course it's not official, but there is a big chance.  So it's going to be a tough match.
Talking about ATP Cup, you know, me, ATP Cup, if you watch the match closely, second and third set I was sometimes applauding Diego for great shots or something like this.  And of course I understand why he was angry with me and why he could be angry with me.  I had my position also on this situation.
But me, I have zero problems with Diego like I could maybe have with some other players.  We never know.  So with him I have zero problems.
At the same time if he has problems with me, I understand it, I will not fight against it.  But again, I think the relationship is going better and better.  But it's better to ask Diego than me because I have no problems with him.
Q. I was just wondering what do you think of your form at the moment?  Because in the past few matches I would say you lost some of them which you were maybe expected to win.  How do you see your form going into the quarterfinals now?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, it's not bad.  Maybe it's still not the one I want or I expect, but it's always good to win matches.  Even in Vienna I think I won two good matches, lost to Kevin who was in great shape, serving good, it's fast courts in Vienna.  Same in St. Petersburg playing against Reilly, never easy.  I felt I was closer to win the match but didn't win it.
It's all about small details sometimes, a little bit of luck, a little bit of confidence.  So really happy with my level today in the second and third set.  If I can manage to play like this in future matches, I will have definitely some wins.
But I always take it match by match.  Now eyes on Diego and hopefully I can show some great tennis.
Q. I felt there was a lot of pride involved, that it was really a pride win after losing the first set.  And I think it's the type of matches that sometimes you need to go to the extra, extra level where you're very difficult to beat.  Would you comment on that, please.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, for sure.  As I say, first set I was not playing bad.  Alex is a great player, so I was serving a little bit less good than I want, than I can.
So I got an early break in all of the sets, and just the difference is that first set I didn't manage to keep the momentum going.  I lost it a little bit, so that's why I lost the first set.
But as you say, after you lose 7-5, it's never easy because you know you have to win two sets now and he has only one to win so it get a little bit more tight.  And when you win such matches, especially in the way I did it, playing really good, sometimes gives you extra confidence.  Hopefully that's the case.  As I say, hopefully I can reproduce this game in next matches.
Q. I felt that because he was so pumped up, as well, there was something that tweaked you into shifting in the gear.  Was that something that you like to get into this mental fight, as well?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   I don't think about today's match that, yeah, it was the case, because I was starting from the beginning of the match, I feel quite good mentally here in Paris ready to fight.  And both matches against Kevin, okay, he didn't finish the match so we couldn't see the fight going longer, but I had already some breakpoints, you know, so I could get nervous.
Against Alex I did get nervous after the first set.  But I knew I had to stay in the match, had to stay focused, to fight for every point, and it worked out really well today.  I managed to raise my level, but it was nothing about him being pumped.  I was just focusing on myself more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT