ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 7, 2020
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. MEDVEDEV/M. Raonic
 6-4, 7-6
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Both yesterday against Diego and today against Milos you played two really fine matches, and is this the best tennis that you played all year?  And is there something you can pinpoint to that has made you the better player in both of these matches?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, I don't think it was the best tennis I have played this year, but it was definitely one of the best matches, two of them.
 I was playing good in the beginning of the year, and then there was a stop.  I was playing good in US Open and Cincinnati, actually.  So there are always matches where you can say maybe this one was the best, maybe this one.  But these two were two really good matches.
 Yeah, something is working well here in Paris.  Maybe I like the balls, maybe the court.  But I was working hard, you know, after clay season, before clay season.  So I know that at one moment if you practice well, you do your job, at one moment the sensation is going to come back.  This moment came here in Paris, which is really good because that's my first final.
 Q. In terms of the preparation now going into the final, what's going to be the game plan now in terms of recovery and obviously the lead-up towards the final in terms of that hour before the match, what's the scenario, how do you plan the next 12 hours?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Just general stuff.  Just had my lunch, but just had my food after the match, to recover.  Will have dinner, will go see the physio, will sleep well, and tomorrow warm up for the match.  That's it.  Easy (smiling).
 Q. Next up in the final will be Zverev or Nadal.  The last two matches you played against them were both at the ATP Finals.  I wonder if you could give your opinion on both of the players.
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, they are both amazing players, both top 10.  I mean, when you play a Masters final, you don't have an easy opponent in front of you.
 I saw that Sascha won the first set, so let's see who wins the match.  You know, nothing to say more than that they are just two really good players, and no matter who you play it's going to be really tough to beat them.  So have to prepare well and show my best tennis tomorrow.
 Q. I'm just sort of curious, last year when you first broke through at the Masters 1000 level, how does your mindset now compare to then now that you have experienced all that and you know what to expect?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   In a way, it's the same, because I always said that even when I was a junior my goal is to win match by match, because only like this I can get to the final, can win the tournament.
 So you have your first round to play, I think many players think the same, okay, you need to win the first round.  Then you see for the second one.
 But of course experience is a good key.  The first Masters final I lost actually very easy to Rafa, and then I won two next ones because, yeah, when you step out for your first Masters 1000 final, you are really tight, your hands are shaking a little bit because you think, okay, maybe that's my last opportunity to be in the final of a Masters 1000.
 Then second, third time, the more you get them, the more it becomes easier to handle these emotions.  So hopefully this experience can help me tomorrow.
 Q. Of course a match of high stakes and a lot of crunch moments.  How weird does it feel not to have the fan interaction in these crunch moments that I mentioned, despite having a love/hate relationship sometimes in such conditions?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, I always say that of course we all want fans to come back because that's when you know you can make a great point, put them on your side.  Maybe sometimes when you're losing the match, especially it helps a lot because usually the crowd goes for the one who is losing because they want to see more of a fight and more of a continued match.
 But we have to go like this.  I think everybody is used to now.  We know we have only our team behind us.  We have to be focused on the game.
 I mean, because it's our job since we were, I don't know, 10 years old, 12 years old when we started playing tournaments, we know how to play without fans also.
 But of course we are all waiting for them to come back.
 Q. I just wanted to get your thoughts on, observing your style of play, it seems very unique compared to others.  You like to play the points quick in terms of not wasting a lot of time, especially on your service games.  And yet you seem so very energetic throughout.  How did this come about, and what do you do to keep your energy level up the way that you do?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, it's definitely true that I like to play points fast.  Maybe not too fast.  I try not to disturb my opponent by this.  Actually when I play Rafa, I feel for him it's a little bit too fast, but, well, I cannot do anything with this also (smiling).
 That's just something I feel comfortable with.  If it would be longer, I will try to make it longer.  If it will be faster, I will try to make it faster.
 But that's how I feel comfortable, so that's how I was doing all my life.  Especially when you make a good serve, I just want to continue the moment, just to take another ball, don't go for the towel.  And, yeah, no real explanation to this.  That's just how I like to do it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT