ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 6, 2020
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. MEDVEDEV/D. Schwartzman
 6-3, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You're undefeated against Diego.  Is there a particular reason why you match up so well against him?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Well, also, we didn't play on clay, so I think that's an advantage for me so far in the head to head (smiling).
 And, yeah, three times out of four we played two times indoor hard courts, one time on grass.  So I think that's the surfaces that Diego doesn't like.  Still he made final two weeks ago, so he was in great shape here, good form.
 I think the most important in our matchup is the serve, because I'm able to return a lot of balls in the court, putting pressure on him, and able to hit some aces.  That's the key, I think.
 After, we know how Diego is capable of playing.  He's capable of doing good results.  I played him in Sydney where I think was really a intense match, both of us playing amazing tennis.
 Every match is a different story.  So far it was working well for me.
 Q. Some stats really jump out on that victory there this evening.  Wins on your first serve, 93% compared to Diego's 49%, receiving points won 26 to 5, and breakpoints 4 to 6.  So if you carry that form into the semifinal, it's going to be all good for you.
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, hopefully.  As I say, you know, the key today was to serve well and just try to get the returns in play and then play the point and make an ace or do some winners, depends.
 Of course tomorrow can be different.  Depends who I play.  So it's going to be a third set probably.  Most of them have a good serve.  Of course Milos is one of the biggest servers maybe in the history of sport.
 So it's not going to be that easy, but for sure when you play indoor hard courts you need to serve well.  So if I manage to carry this on, then I have a big chance to either go for a tiebreak or have more chances to break the guy.  It always gives you extra confidence.
 Q. You certainly did really well today on your serve, both with your aces and your first serve especially.  Was this as good as you have played all year, or is there another match that sticks out besides today?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   The level today was really good, so that's a level I want to be all the time, but it's impossible in tennis.  We have so many tournaments throughout the year.  So it always goes up and down a little bit.  When you're up, okay, that's when you play good, you win matches.  When you're down, it's important to get these matches, also win matches, which is not always easy...
 (Technical difficulties.)
 THE MODERATOR:   Are we back on?  You were halfway finishing the English answer, if you remember.
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, which was it?  Yeah, that...  Yeah, I remember.
 Yeah, when you have the down moments, that's when you also need to win matches.  And that's where the Big 3 are just unbelievable, because no matter what their shape is, how bad they are playing the exact match, they almost all the time win it.  Of course not all the time.  They are capable of doing their best even if their best is not high this day.
 And that's what we need to learn, young guys, because that's experience, that's not easy.  Talking about today's match, that's a match where I had my top form, and I'm happy about it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT