US OPEN
September 5, 2020
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. MEDVEDEV/J.J. Wolf
 6-3, 6-3, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You sort of mentioned on court how happy you were to get through in straight sets, as you have throughout the tournament.  Andrey also has done the same.  I'm curious, I remember seeing the pictures of you with him from years ago with you in the juniors.  What are some of your memories with Andrey?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   First memories is easy.  I think we played a match when we were like maybe 12 years old, both of us, or 11, and we were one of the worst juniors in terms of attitude that you could see.
 We were crying, throwing the racquets over the fans.  We were young, of course, so we hated to lose.  I was doing only lobs at the time, only lobs.  Him, I don't think he was hitting the ball as hard as right now.  It was crazy matches.  That's the first memory I have.
 But, yeah, I remember we lost in US Open Juniors.  I don't remember if it was the same day or not, and we just went to see Times Square, Manhattan, because before we didn't have time.  And we had a great time.  Also there was Jelena Ostapenko there.  Nice memories.  All of us on the top level now.
 Q. What do you think he's improved the most to have such a good start to the year?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   I think consistency, because we knew he can play amazing tennis, just unbelievable tennis, but if he was not there yet meant he was not as consistent as it could have been.
 Now he's really consistent.  Every tournament he plays he does good.  The start of the year was amazing for him, so hopefully he will continue like this.
 Q. I wanted to ask about, there have been a bunch of changes in rules and protocols regarding players in contact with Benoit Paire before he tested positive.  You're on a list of three players who were in less direct contact with Benoit, having had more tests now.  What contact did you have with him and what minor changes have happened to your days here as a result of that?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, I actually had no contact with Benoit.  I don't know how they check it, like how they trace it.  I think it's by credential, and maybe I was in the same room with him.  But I didn't have contact with him.
 So after talking to USTA and a doctor from the New York department, I think, they said, Okay, just do test every day and you live normal.  If we can call this normal (smiling).
 But that's basically what I do.  I have done maybe five tests, five negative tests, and I will continue to do them every day.  It doesn't bother me at all.
 Q. What do you think of the changes that we have had in this tournament regarding the protocols?  Because Mannarino, there was a long debate over his match yesterday.  Just today Mladenovic was kicked out of the women's doubles because she was in the same group as Mannarino.  What do you make of the changes and lack of consistency we are seeing?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Tough to say, because depends which contact did they have with him, how close they have been?
 Because of course if they did like -- I don't know.  Usually we say three negative tests if you do them, then you are okay.  I don't know what is true and what is not true.
 I think they should have the chance to play if this is safe for everybody.  So basically if they didn't, maybe New York health department thinks it's not safe for everybody, but if you ask my opinion, I think they should play.  But my opinion doesn't mean anything here (smiling).
 Q. I guess in one sense this is new territory for you coming back the following year to be defending and trying to reproduce what you have done in the previous year at such a big event.  How do you feel you're positioned at the moment with your game?  And if you would compare it to this stage at last year's US Open.
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, I mean, comparing to last year is impossible, because last year there was a full season.  Coming to US Open I had two finals and one Master title, my first Master title.
 It's completely different here.  We played Cincinnati tournament but in New York, in the same place.  So it was, like, kind of a warmup for a slam, which of course everybody played till the end, including me, too.
 But it feels different.  I played, really, three good matches.  Won all of them in straight sets against not easy opponents.  So really looking forward to it.
 Talking about my game, I feel confident right now, as I was feeling last year.
 Q. Because of lack of competition before the US Open are you surprised to qualify for the second week so easily?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Finally, I should say I'm not surprised because I was playing really good, really consistent.  I managed to, let's call it like this, make my opponents miss a lot, return a lot of balls in the court, served quite good.  I didn't lose a serve before this match, and even this match I managed to keep it on the high level all the match.
 So if you would ask me before the tournament probably would be surprised that I would get in the second week without really having a challenge during the match, because what we can call a challenge is maybe 7-5, 7-6, but I worked for this.  I tried my best to do it, and I'm happy that I managed.
 Q. You didn't lose any set.  And also Berrettini hasn't lost any set.  He won 45 service games in a row.  He's playing Rublev, your friend.  Like last year, they played in the quarters.  What do you expect?  Because they are in the same half of the draw of you, I mean, same quarter.  So how do you see their match?  Because last year Rublev was the favorite.  This year, what do you think?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   I think it's going to be amazing match, really.  I think they are both playing amazing right now.  Both in Cincinnati lost quite easy so maybe had time to think and regroup.  Playing amazing here at US Open.  I think really it's going to be a great match to watch.  I can say everybody to watch this match because it's going to be interesting.
 Q. But you didn't say who is the favorite.
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   I don't think there is a favorite.  Maybe Matteo a little bit because of the ranking, of course.  But if not, again, after six months I think everything is new right now, so we need to wait some time to give favorite.  So I think it's a really close match.
 Q. What effects do the memories of your run here last year have on you this year?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Well, honestly I remember playing well there.  That's the most important.  I remember winning great matches.  So of course it gives me some confidence, because it's still Arthur Ashe, even without the crowd, still Louis Armstrong.  So I'm happy to be back here.  I'm playing quite good.
 I'm happy to play on big courts every match that I played, and hopefully I can do the same or better than last year.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT