US OPEN
August 29, 2020
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. The professional tennis players association that's being started up tonight, are you planning on joining up with that?  What are your thoughts on this idea?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, I decided for myself to think more about it after US Open.  I'll definitely ask more information to Vasek and Novak to decide for myself.  Me, I need some time.  That's all I can say right now because I cannot say more.
 As I say, I have no decision made up for myself.  I don't know which way I'm leaning, but I need more info, that's for sure.
 Q. Last summer, an incredible moment for you.  Different this year.  What does it mean for you to be back at the US Open?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, of course, it's really different.  That's important to say.  It feels a bit different.  I am sure it would feel another way if there was not COVID in the world.  The situation is how it is.
 Still feels great to be back.  Hopefully can make some good tournament.  Playing on Ashe the first match night session, even if there are no fans, looking forward to it.  Hopefully can show some great tennis, maybe make some new memories for myself.
 Q. Have you reflected on the final with Rafa last year at all?  Do you look back on that match?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Sometimes a little bit.  Of course, was amazing match.  I mean, the only Grand Slam final I had.  But also as a person I always try to look the present and the future, try to work to have the best future, let's say, in the tennis world.  Don't think so much about the past.
 Of course, sometimes I do remember it.  It was a great match, great fight, great level.  I mean, against Rafa, he was on top of his form.  I need to also remember this sometimes, just play the same tennis.
 Q. Maybe you don't want to answer this, but in a general way, are you satisfied with the overall structure of men's tennis now?  Do you think now at a time when there's been such change in sport and society it's a time to try another way?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, it's kind of same answer.  Of course, both sides have their arguments.  Me, I was never in the players council.  Let's be honest, I was on tour for close to the top for almost two years, all together three, four years.  It's not a very long-term.
 I'm not sure if I'm happy with the structure or not because I don't really know the structure so well.  As I say, I need some time, which I cannot do Saturday before US Open.  I need time to see argument from both sides and decide for myself which way I think is the best way for tennis.
 Of course, for myself also, all my young fellows, which is the best way to go, to continue, which structure, what do I want to support for myself.  Even if I go with minority, it's going to be my choice.
 At this moment I don't have this choice so I cannot tell you anything at all.
 Q. This year is very different due to COVID.  Did you consider not participating in the tournament due to the virus?  Did the precautions of the US Open affect your decision?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, I don't think I ever really doubted playing here because I really like to play tennis, I like to play tournaments, competitive tournaments, like this at this moment.  (Audio interruption.)  I was almost sure I will come here.
 At the same time of course safety was a priority for everybody.  As soon as everybody really got the information of how it's going to be here I think everybody decided to go.  Especially what we see, especially on the men's side, is a very strong field.
 Yeah, I do feel really safe here.  I think to get infected here is really tough.  I think it's a good bubble.  Let's see how it's going to be in other tournaments.  Here I think it's a great job.
 Q. Your run to the finals was miraculous, spectacular.  The final will be considered one of the greatest of all time.  Coming into the tournament this year, are you looking at this as unfinished business, you came so close that you have to get it this year?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, how I am, I always take it match by match.  Of course, in the back of my mind, any slam I play, any tournament I play, I want to win it.  I not have any slam yet.  I just have one final.
 Of course, when I come into the slam, my goal is to win seven matches.  But I take it match by match.  There was a huge layoff.
 Every match you see everybody play is so different.  The three matches I played, I actually liked my level.  I think my physical shape had to be better.  I've done some adjustments, as much as I could, in just few days.  I'm really trying hard to be ready for anything that US Open can bring to me.
 Hopefully I can just show some great tennis.  Like this I will have my chances to go deep in the tournament.  That's, of course, my goal.
 Q. What do you think about the surface and the speed of the courts?  Different than last year or depends on the weather?
 DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Me, I need to be honest because it's just a feeling.  It was one year ago.  I don't feel any difference with the courts.  In general what I hear from people is that they become faster.  For example, I played three matches on the same court, which was Grandstand.  It was not that fast for me.  Practice courts are much faster than the grandstand.
 Of course it comes with the conditions.  The courts, they are usually made the same.  Grandstand is a big court with big stadium, a little bit like a bowl.  Maybe that's why it's a bit slower.
 Playing on Arthur Ashe and Louis Armstrong, because I practiced there a few times, I don't feel huge difference regarding last year.  In these terms, I'm not amazed.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT