ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 10, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/V. Pospisil
7-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What do you tell yourself in the first set when you were down 2-5?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Honestly, I don't remember exactly what I was saying, but it could be anything. It could be, like, I mean, possibly I said to myself, Okay, the set is over, but I still knew that I have to try to win every point.
I was down five set points, I think, and 5-2 also. I mean, usually the set is finished when it's like this, so just try to win every point I had to face, and finally it worked out.
Q. It was warm out there. Did you find it that way? And was the sun bothering you in one particular end of the court or the shade?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, it was really hot. I think maybe that's why Vasek had some problems in the second set. I don't know exactly what he had. I was feeling physically quite fit to go throughout this match, which was very physical and long.
But, yeah, the sun was, I would say, disturbing me a lot, both sides, because every time you go from complete shadow where you're, like, Okay, I want the lights on, and then you go into the sun and the other side is in the shadow, so when he hits the ball, you cannot really see it the way you want.
So was not easy, but that's many times like this when you play around this hour. You need to be ready for this and need to win like this.
Q. You did in a racquet out there, even one swipe, a good backhand and everything. Do you think that kind of let out a lot of your frustration and helped?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I don't know if it helped or not. I usually don't like to do it, to break the racquets, because it's never beautiful.
But it's true that sometimes it maybe can help to get some emotions out and get also the stress out. I don't know if it helped me. To be honest with you, I don't think so. But during the moment, that was the only thing I was thinking to do, and that's why it happened.
Q. I was just wondering, since you travel so much, different countries and cultures, how interested are you in different cultures? Do you research on it? Do you read about it?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, actually, I mean, a lot. That's why tennis is nice, because we travel every week to a new country, to a new continent, new parts of the cities. And still there are some tournaments, for example, I haven't been once in South America, so not even for vacation or anything, so it's going to be the next step probably.
But I love to visit new countries. Some of them I like. Some of them maybe I don't like. Same for the cultures. But it's so interesting to know starting from just people to, as you say, to reading something about, how you call, previous times and stuff like this.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. Since we are talking about traveling to different countries, you came to Shanghai pretty early. Did you get a chance to do some sightseeing? What is your general impression of Shanghai?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I love Shanghai, I need to be honest with you, because that's my fourth time here. Three times, third time in the Masters 1000, and one time I played a challenger here, exactly same place, just we play on the grandstand.
That was my best challenger result so far. I made quallies [sic] and semifinal beating good opponents, and already there I really like the city. I mean, I should say it's kind of European or American. There is some mix of everything. I enjoy everything about it. I enjoy coming here.
Q. (In English.) I was wondering what the reaction to your success in these recent weeks was in the locker room. Do players treat you any different? Do you feel any different? Can you talk a little about that.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, I do think that, yeah, I start to feel different even if I try to stay the same. As you say, other players, they start to talk to you differently.
It's kind of unconsciously, you know. It's the way it is and the way it will be for everybody who makes these kind of results.
So it's tough to explain even in which part of it, but, you know, I always say, Fine, it's not about the locker room, but when I come back to my club in Cannes, of course, even when I just in the top 100, everybody was already kind of pumped up about my success. And sometimes I'm coming there and losing two, three first rounds, so it was not these last few months but before, and all the people since they are pumped up to see me again, they're, like, Congrats, congrats. And in my mind, I'm, like, Gosh, I lost first rounds. That's how it is.
In locker room, it's not just being top 100. Yeah, the better results you do, the more different everything is. You just have to kind of take it and work on yourself, I would say.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT