ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 8, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/C. Norrie
6-3, 6-1
Q. (Question about the match.)
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, it was a great match. As I say, it's never easy to play a qualifier. Was my first match here in Shanghai after few weeks without a tournament finally, so I was a little bit even stressed about my level, but finally I managed to show a really good level, get out from there in less than one hour. Really happy and looking forward.
Q. Given the run of form you're on now, do you feel invincible?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Well, I don't feel invincible, because I still lost some matches. If I would have won, let's say, five tournaments in USA that I played, then I would tell you, Yeah, maybe I am.
No, I still can lose matches, of course. I'm trying my best to keep the form I have. It's really not easy, because as soon as you relax a little bit, the results will start to fall. That's why I'm trying not to relax. I'm practicing as hard as I can and playing my best on the tournaments also.
Q. Any thoughts on why it's all come together this period of time?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I think, to be honest with you, the hard work that I have been doing for the last especially two-and-a-half years, really serious hard work, was paying off step by step. First I was out of top 50 for quite a long time. I would say established-out-of-top 50 player.
Then step by step I started to work more, I started to get up, started to understand more things about my tennis game. That's how it all came together.
Q. Can you tell us a bit about how Francisca helped you with the mental training and how you see yourself differently with her help?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, she helped me a lot to kind of understand how I am as a person and what I have to do on the tennis court to be a better tennis player, because it's not easy. As I say, before I was also a really good player, I mean, playing good tennis, having good shots, but I kind of didn't know exactly what I have to do and when I have to do it.
And building the team around me, everybody helped me to understand what I have to do in tennis, in mental part and in physical part. That's why again it all came together at one moment.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT