ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 12, 2019
Daniil Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. MEDVEDEV/S. Tsitsipas   
7-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What's it like if you go into a match where you have never lost to the opponent? I mean, how much of an advantage does that give you before you go into the match?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Honestly, I don't think it matters that much. Of course it means that I'm not a convenient opponent to him, which is a good thing, but I think really like the head-to-head doesn't mean anything. It's a new match, new situations.   
I said this year I had a lot of matches against opponents I don't like, where it could be I remember one against Pouille, I was 4-0 down in the head-to-head, still won the match in Queen's.   
So I don't think it matters this much, but I'm happy to keep the momentum going in this head-to-head.   
 Q.  The first set is your 11th tiebreaker in a row that you win.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Really? I didn't know.   
 Q.  Yes. We all know you're good, so why are you exceptionally good in tiebreaker?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I actually have no idea, and I didn't know this statistic. It's amazing statistic. I don't know if it's a record or something. It's just amazing.   
And usually tiebreak is a lottery where it's 50/50, for example. Against Pospisil, he had set point, made a double fault. If he would have made an ace, we wouldn't be talking about this statistic.   
It just means that I'm really good at this moment, in crucial moments, and that's why I'm also winning matches.   
 Q.  Speaking of crucial moments, there were quite a few for you today. What do you tell yourself in those moments to make sure that you come out on top and not lose?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, when it was 4-All, Love-40, I didn't tell anything good to myself. I was, like, Damn, I shouldn't have let this happen. But I needed to get out of this and managed really well I think with five good serves and some great shots after the serve.   
Same, second set. I mean, losing the game at 5-4 when you're serving for the match is never easy, but I knew I had to continue just to try to win the next game, and that's what happened, two next games for me. That's how it is.   
 Q.  This is also your sixth final in a row. Obviously it's amazing, but imagine both Federer and Djokovic have 17. Could you imagine...  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: They have 17 in a row?   
 Q.  17 finals in a row.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Wow. That's far ahead, you know.   
 Q.  I know. Talk about the difficulty level of 17.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I do think it's impossible, but, well, there are two guys who have done it, which I actually didn't know it, which is just unbelievable. I don't have any words to describe this.   
I mean, for myself making six in a row including three Masters and one Grand Slam is something I could never dream of, to be honest. But I want to keep the momentum going and hope I can make it to seven or eight. Let's see about 17 later.   
 Q.  The second pair of semifinalists have not even started. Can you talk about playing either of them in the final?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, both are amazing young players. I did say before this year and during this year in the beginning that Sascha was the best in our, let's say, NextGen group. He won three Masters when none of us were even close to doing this.   
Positions has changed a little bit, so I think I can contest him right now, because I think it's 3-0, 4-0 for him in head-to-head. But still both amazing players with amazing serves. Even yesterday I saw some serves like 235, which is also just exceptional.   
I think it's going to be really a tight match with maybe even a few tiebreakers, so I'm going to watch, enjoy it, and see who wins and prepare for the winner.   
 Q.  Lately people start talking about you will be the next big name after Roger, Novak, and Rafa. Can you share some thoughts about this?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, I mean, I have to say it's a compliment to say this, and I'm happy about it because that's my results who make people talk in this way.   
After, the most important is going to be continuing these results, this game that I'm showing, because the moment I drop, people forget good things quite fast. So I know that, and I want to work and improve every day.   
 Q.  Just curious, what did you write on the camera? I could only read 33.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, 33, basically I love soccer, and especially when I was, let's say, from 10 till 16, 18 years old, I didn't miss any soccer match of teams I like, or I like the football, yeah.   
I'm a Bayern fan, and I loved Mario Gomez when he was in top shape and he was playing the 33 on Bayern. That's how the number came in, and I like the number.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT